-- Volatility Doubles as Singer Spooks Investors: Argentina Credit
-- B y   K a t i a   P o r z e c a n s k i
-- 2013-01-09T19:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/volatility-doubles-as-singer-spooks-investors-argentina-credit.html
The U.S. court battle between
Argentina and billionaire investor  Paul Singer  over the
country’s defaulted debt is spurring a two-fold surge in bond
market volatility.  The degree of daily price variations in dollar-denominated
debt from  South America ’s second-biggest economy averaged 54,
almost 20 times the volatility for bonds sold by 52  developing
countries  in JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index, and three
times that of Belize, the second most volatile. A year earlier,
price swings for Argentine bonds measured 21.8, then five times
the emerging-market average.  As litigation persists between Argentina and investors led
by Singer’s Elliott Management Corp. seeking payment of the full
value of their defaulted bonds, investors should sell Argentine
debt, said Vladimir Werning, an analyst at JPMorgan in  New York .
After adjusting for price swings, Argentine bonds lost 0.14
percent since Oct. 8, compared with a 1.05 percent gain in
Venezuelan debt, the Bloomberg Riskless Return Ranking shows.  “Investors holding bonds in the face of this volatility
are not patient enough to wait” for a legal resolution, Werning
said at a Jan. 7  Emerging Markets Traders Association  seminar in
New York. “Markets are about disequilibrium and guessing the
future at every single point in time. So at this point, I’m
quite uncomfortable.”  Judge’s Order  Werning changed his recommendation for Argentine bonds to
underweight from marketweight the same day, citing their 24
percent  rally  since Nov. 28, when an appeals court in New York
delayed a district judge’s order blocking the nation from making
payments on its restructured debt if it didn’t pay $1.3 billion
to owners of defaulted notes at the same time.  Argentina  will present oral arguments against Judge Thomas Griesa’s ruling on Feb. 27, after which the appeals court could
reach a decision within three months, according to Henry Weisburg, a partner at New York-based law firm Shearman &
Sterling LLP.  The rally pared  losses  in Argentine bonds to 10.2 percent
since Oct. 25, the day before the appeals court upheld a
previous ruling by Griesa that Argentina must treat all
bondholders equally. Bonds plunged 10 percent the following day
on concern that Argentina would opt to default rather than
comply.  Yesterday, Argentine dollar bonds fell 3.8 percent on
average, the most since Nov. 26.  ‘Negative Outcome’  The losses aren’t over, according to Sebastian Vargas, an
analyst at Barclays Plc in New York. While the country, which
hasn’t tapped international markets since its $95 billion
default in 2001, faces increasing pressure to negotiate with
holdouts, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  probably
won’t hold talks until she reaches the brink of a second
default, he said.  “We might see external bond prices much lower than today
before we see the light at the end of the tunnel,” Vargas said
in the seminar. “In the end, you still need a negative outcome
before Argentina can turn eventually pragmatic down the road,
and that can take some time.”  The implied probability of default in the next year based
on trading in credit-default swaps is 40 percent, down from a
record 85 percent on Nov. 26, according to data provider CMA
Ltd., which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Corporate Bonds  The cost to protect against Argentina defaulting using
five-year swaps rose 217 basis points yesterday, the most in six
weeks, to 1,651 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The contracts reached a three-year high of 3,898 on
Nov. 26. The cost of insuring Argentine debt against non-payment
remains the highest in the world.  In the past three months, the volatility of Argentina’s
 corporate bonds , which won’t be directly affected by the U.S.
court ruling, surged to 8.4 from 4.5 a year earlier. On average,
the volatility for  emerging-markets  corporate bonds in
JPMorgan’s CEMBI Broad index fell to 1.6 from 3.5. Higher
volatility means an asset can fluctuate within a wider range of
prices in a short period, increasing the potential for
unexpected gains or losses.  Future bond price swings will provide opportunities for
investors to profit, according to Hans Humes, president of
Greylock Capital Management LLC in New York.  Provincial Notes  “You can take plenty of advantage of the volatility that
you will have with some of the headlines coming over the next
few months to make money without betting on the decisions of the
courts,” Humes said at the Jan. 7 seminar.  After the last selloff, Humes said his company, which
manages more than $500 million in emerging-market debt, added to
its holdings of Argentine debt by buying provincial bonds.  Warrants tied to Argentina’s economic growth, which plunged
2.5 cents after Griesa’s decision jeopardized their Dec. 15
dividend payment, posted a 3.12-cent rally ahead of the 6.3-cent
payout. Since then, they gained as much as 1.25 cents before
declining to 6.13 cents at 2:50 p.m in New York.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 1,026 basis points,
according to JPMorgan.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent to 4.9360 per dollar.  Fernandez will avoid negotiating with the so-called holdout
creditors she calls “vultures” because she has turned the
issue into one of national pride, said JPMorgan’s Werning. As a
result, it’s difficult to imagine a solution that’s favorable to
current investors while she remains in power, he said.
Fernandez’s term, her second, ends in December 2015.  “There will be some disruption,” Werning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Porzecanski in New York at 
 kporzecansk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  