-- VW Offers to Buy Out MAN SE Investors to Push Integration
-- B y   C h a d   T h o m a s
-- 2013-01-10T10:51:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/vw-to-seek-man-se-domination-agreement-to-push-integration.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s largest
carmaker, will offer to buy out the rest of  MAN SE (MAN) ’s
shareholders to take full control of the German truckmaker.  VW, which already holds 75.03 percent of the  voting rights ,
will seek a domination agreement and start talks with MAN’s
board, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker said in a
statement. The  remaining stake  is worth about 3.2 billion euros
($4.2 billion) based on yesterday’s closing price.  VW is pushing for deeper integration between MAN, its own
commercial-vehicles unit and Swedish truckmaker  Scania AB (SCVB) , which
it also controls, to leapfrog  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and Daimler AG as the
biggest producer of heavy trucks in Europe. A completed
agreement would allow VW to fully integrate MAN into its own
operations. MAN shares today gained the most in 7 months.  “Volkswagen will have access to MAN’s cash and they can
dictate the strategy,” said  Frank Schwope , a Hanover, Germany-
based analyst with Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale. “The
main consequence will be an intensified collaboration with
Scania.”  VW is legally required to look at the average price of the
shares in the last three months and the value of the stock based
on an independent evaluation of the company, and offer MAN
shareholders the higher of the two figures,  Christine Ritz , head
of VW investor relations, said in a telephone interview. MAN
owners who don’t accept the deal will have the right to keep
their shares and receive a dividend instead, she said.  MAN Advances  MAN’s common shares  surged  as much as 5.97 euros, or 7.1
percent, to 90 euros, the biggest gain since June 5, and were up
4.8 percent as of 11:48 a.m. in  Frankfurt  trading. The stock has
climbed 18 percent in the last year, valuing the Munich-based
company at 12.9 billion euros. VW was up 0.8 percent at 173.05
euros.  Volkswagen is likely to make an all-cash offer and pay 95
euros per MAN share at most given that the truckmaker’s outlook
remains uncertain, said Sascha Gommel, a Commerzbank AG analyst
in Frankfurt who has a hold rating on MAN.  MAN’s  operating profit  fell 39 percent in the first nine
months of 2012 to 656 million euros as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis dragged down demand in the region. Revenue declined 3
percent to 11.58 billion euros.  VW, which already holds enough votes to push through the
deal at an MAN shareholders meeting, owns 73.7 percent of the
total share capital.  Management Reshuffle  “The completion of the deal, including all required
shareholder approvals, could drag on into the second half of the
year,” Gommel said.  Volkswagen announced a management reshuffle last June meant
to push forward the truckmaking cooperation. As part of the
changes, Leif Oestling gave up his post as chief executive
officer of Scania to join the German automaker’s management
board and help forge the alliance. MAN CEO Georg Pachta- Reyhofen, is now overseeing the group’s industrial engines
business, along with his duties running the truckmaker.  The maker of the Golf hatchback has been working for six
years on closer ties with MAN and Scania. Volkswagen increased
its holding in MAN to a majority in 2011, then raised its stake
last June to its current level.  “The planned step is a further milestone on the road to
creating an integrated commercial vehicles group,” VW said in
yesterday’s statement. “MAN would retain its brand specific
characteristics and business areas.”  Cash Pile  Volkswagen, which has been on a buying spree in the last
year,  boosted  its cash pile in November when it sold 2.5 billion
euros in bonds. Net liquidity at the end of September fell 57
percent to 9.22 billion euros after the carmaker paid 4.49
billion euros for the 50.1 percent of sports-car maker Porsche
it did not already own and bought Ducati motorbikes for 860
million euros.  “I expect Volkswagen to gradually increase their stake to
about 98 percent to almost 100 percent but not seeking a squeeze
out,” Schwope said. “They have all the time in the world and
will buy shares whenever the price is favorable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chad Thomas  in Berlin at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Reiter at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net  