-- Wal-Mart Pressured to Name Suppliers After Factory Blaze
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-09T15:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/wal-mart-pressured-to-name-suppliers-after-deadly-factory-blaze.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is under
increasing pressure from investors and labor-rights groups to
name its garment suppliers after a fire in  Bangladesh  killed
more than 100 people at a factory that made its clothes.  Proponents say public disclosure of supply chains -- a move
made by  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and other retailers in recent years --
encourages accountability that leads to factory improvements in
countries where unsafe conditions are widespread.  After the blaze at the Tazreen Design Ltd factory on Nov.
24, labor rights organizations have called on Wal-Mart and other
companies to take more direct responsibility for the suppliers
and factories that make their garments. Wal-Mart maintains low
costs in part by “turning a blind eye” to the conditions and
safety of workers around the globe, according to John C. Liu,
the New York City Comptroller.  “Wal-Mart’s refusal to shed light on its suppliers and
hold them accountable for their human and workers’ rights
practices reflects a cavalier attitude toward compliance at the
highest levels of the corporation,” Liu said in an e-mailed
statement.  Liu is a trustee and investment adviser to the New York
City Public Pension Funds, which holds about 4.9 million Wal-
Mart shares, an investment of about $337 million.  “As a corporate policy, we don’t discuss our supplier
relationships,” Kevin Gardner, a spokesman for Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart, said in an e-mail.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, has more than
100,000 suppliers, according to its  website .  Competitive Strategy  Shares of Wal-Mart have declined 1.9 percent from Nov. 26
through yesterday compared with a 3.6 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. Wal-Mart  fell  0.3 percent to $68.41
at 10:10 a.m. today in New York.  In November, the company fired a supplier it said had
illegally subcontracted manufacturing to the Tazreen factory,
which was found to be making the retailer’s private-label
clothing brand. Gardner said last month the company had de-
authorized manufacturing at the factory before the fire. He
declined to say exactly when.  Greg Johnsen, co-founder of GT Nexus, an Oakland,
California-based supply chain management company whose clients
include  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , said Wal-Mart and other companies
are unlikely to embrace better transparency.  “It’s a major shift away from what many retailers consider
to be strategic trade secrets,” Johnsen said in a telephone
interview. “Who they source from is part of their competitive
strategy.”  Shareholder Value  Disclosure is “not a move to be taken lightly,” Johnsen
said. “Companies want to keep an edge. They’re concerned for
their shareholder value.”  In 2011, Liu, the New York City Comptroller, pushed for
changes at Wal-Mart with a shareholder proposal asking that the
retailer’s suppliers publish annual reports on worker safety and
fair labor compliance.  According to the failed proposal, the company “does not
publicly disclose the thousands of suppliers it has abroad,
making it difficult for human rights organizations and labor
groups to identify and engage in private monitoring of working
conditions at factories where Wal-Mart’s products are
manufactured.”  Shareholder pressure on Wal-Mart is unlikely to generate
changes at the retailer. The Walton family  owns  more than 48
percent of the stock, effectively controlling the voting power
of the stockholder base.  Labor Violations  Elizabeth McGeveran, the Boston-based director of
governance and sustainable investment for F&C Investments, which
manages 2.4 million shares of Wal-Mart, said releasing names of
suppliers and factories is a “best practice” that would enable
independent sources to monitor working conditions.  “It would help,” McGeveran, of the London-based
investment management company, said in a telephone interview.
“Across the retail garment industry, they should be moving
toward this.”  McGeveran pointed to Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike, the
world’s largest sporting-goods maker, which began releasing
information about its factory locations in the mid-2000s
following years of criticism over labor violations.  “It encourages scrutiny and assurance,” she said. “It
comes under different scrutiny from management and the board.”  Scott Nova, executive director of the Washington-based
Worker Rights Consortium, said knowing supplier and factory
names and locations is central to his group’s work.  Political Pressure  “It allows us to check these places out to make sure
they’re in compliance,” Nova said in a telephone interview,
describing the work of his labor-rights monitoring group and
other similar organizations. “It is the foundation of
monitoring work we do.”  Nova’s group has been involved in international discussions
with retailers, unions and trade organizations about a
contractually enforceable memorandum that would require
companies to provide “accurate and regularly updated lists of
their approved suppliers (including subcontractors) in
Bangladesh” in order to facilitate inspections.  The agreement, which has been signed by  PVH Corp. (PVH) , owner of
the Tommy Hilfiger brand, also would require companies to pay
Bangladesh factories prices high enough to cover costs of safety
improvements. It will not take effect until four major retailers
sign on.  Politicians also are calling for greater supply chain
transparency following revelations that Tazreen had manufactured
licensed apparel bearing U.S. Marine Corps logos. Six U.S.
Senators and one Congressman in December signed a letter to
President Obama calling for “greater transparency and
accountability in the supply chains of all U.S. Government
contractors and licenses.”  “The Marine Corps should lead by example and make certain
that their supply contracts and licensing agreements do not have
provisions that may make it easy for manufacturers to hide the
source of their product,” Democratic Senator Tom Harkin of  Iowa 
and the six others wrote in the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  