-- Waning Food-Stamp Growth May Drag Down Grocers: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-01-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/waning-food-stamp-growth-may-drag-down-grocers-chart-of-the-day.html
Slowing growth in U.S. food-stamp
benefits may weigh on grocery chains and other retailers that
serve the program’s recipients, according to Bob Summers, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLLP.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, year-to-year percentage
gains in benefit payments narrowed in August through October,
the latest month for which the U.S. Department of Agriculture
has published data.  October’s 1.7 percent increase was the second-smallest
since 2006 for food stamps, formally known as the Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program, or SNAP. The smallest, 1 percent,
occurred in May. The rate plunged from a peak of 63 percent in
August 2009, two months after a recession ended.  “Program growth will remain under pressure” as Congress
considers possible cuts to SNAP later this year, Summers wrote
yesterday in a report. The current food-stamp aid was extended
through Sept. 30 as part of a  federal budget  deal reached last
week. The program accounts for about half of the USDA’s budget.  Retailers who have benefited from SNAP’s growth “have
begun to experience challenges,” the New York-based analyst
wrote.  Kroger Co. (KR)  and  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , the country’s two largest
grocery-store chains, have negative ratings at Susquehanna. The
calls show Summers expects the companies’ shares to decline at
least 15 percent in the next 12 months.  Dollar stores may be at risk along with supermarkets.
 Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) , the U.S. industry’s second-largest
chain, said last week that food and other so-called consumables
were the fastest-growing segment of its business last quarter.
Sales in this category rose 18.5 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  