-- Why U.S. Spending Cuts Won’t Kill Too Many Jobs
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2013-01-09T23:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/why-u-s-spending-cuts-won-t-kill-too-many-jobs.html
The U.S. began the year with an
awkwardly arranged deal that raised taxes. I hope it doesn’t end
the year without a deal to limit spending.  The U.K. may have embraced austerity too soon, but the U.S.
is far enough along in its recovery that it can begin balancing
its books. An impressive  new series  of papers has estimated the
impact of public spending on jobs during the recession, and
concluded that we can make moderate budget cuts without sending
the economy into a tailspin.  In the long run, the labor market will be able to adjust to
less  government spending , but in the short run, reductions in
spending will mean fewer jobs. Last week’s  figures  from the
Bureau of Labor Statistics showed that the  unemployment rate  was
steady at 7.8 percent and that the U.S. private sector added 1.9
million jobs last year. Those numbers are healthy enough for us
to contemplate cutting spending now. Before deciding, however,
we should understand what cuts will do to employment in the
short run.  How do economists estimate the impact of changes in
government spending on jobs and joblessness? There is a long
tradition of predicting how government spending will affect
 overall employment . One approach is to focus on the time pattern
of jobs and spending at the national level. It is pretty hard to
get much that is definitive, however, because the  U.S. economy 
as a whole has so many moving parts.  State Comparisons  Therefore, smart researchers have increasingly turned to
state-by-state comparisons. Some of our best estimates of the
impact of spending on employment come from recent studies
comparing the experiences of various states under the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 -- the  federal stimulus 
program. These findings help us assess how quickly we can cut
spending. First, however, researchers have to deal with a big
obstacle in looking at this data. What if federal aid
disproportionately went to needier states? What if it favored
states that were recovering less quickly? In that case, the aid
would look as if it wasn’t doing much good, even if it was
stopping a bad situation from getting much worse.  Data mavens 
have long used “instrumental variables” to deal with this kind
of challenge. If you are trying to understand the spending-to-
jobs link, this method requires a third variable that randomly
causes spending to rise in some places but not in others, and
that doesn’t have any direct effect on employment.  Luckily for researchers, the stimulus package didn’t help
every state equally, and some reasons for the different spending
levels look pretty random. Lower-density states got more money
for  transportation-related projects , because spending followed
standards that base highway trust payments on total highway and
vehicle miles traveled. States that have more senior
congressional delegations also received more funding.  So let’s see how this statistical wizardry changes the
results. Economist  Bruce Sacerdote , together with his Dartmouth
College colleague  James Feyrer , first looked at whether states
that got more money in the Recovery Act saw an increase in
employment. They  estimate  that there was an extra job for every
$107,000 in extra stimulus spending, but that figure is
potentially compromised by the more-money-to-troubled-places
problem.  Feyrer and Sacerdote then  factor in  the seniority of a
state’s congressional delegation. (The most senior congressman
is ranked first and the least senior congressman is ranked
435th.) They found that as the average rank of a state’s House
delegation increased by 50, the state received $165 more per
capita in the stimulus package. By comparing states with more or
fewer senior delegations, and hence bigger or smaller stimulus
packages, economists can better estimate the effect that
spending has on jobs.  Seniority Formula  Using this  seniority -based formula, the researchers
estimated that a job costs about $50,000 a year.  They found an even stronger connection between spending and
employment when they looked at month-to-month changes in
stimulus spending and state-level employment. (In this case,
they had no special third variable, but they could control for
the average level of employment in the state over the same time
period.)  The data showed that an extra $100,000 in a month creates
slightly more than 3.2 jobs, but “this indicates a cost of
about $300,000 per job over the course of a year for this subset
of spending.” They also looked at whether job growth persists
after the stimulus and found little evidence for that.  Some categories of stimulus spending were more effective
than others in creating jobs. Funding for transportation and aid
supporting those with low incomes had a relatively large effect
on jobs. But providing money for local governments, especially
through education support, does little for state employment.
(Maybe the states that received less money didn’t actually fire
their teachers, or maybe the dismissed teachers found work
elsewhere.)  Daniel Wilson  of the  Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
similarly  concludes  that transportation spending seems to do as
much for jobs as anything else during a slowdown -- that the
stimulus spending “in its first year yielded about eight jobs
per million dollars spent, or $125,000 per job.”  There is something of a consensus that federal dollars  do
more to affect jobs  during the depths of a recession, which is
why the recovery makes it easier for us to contemplate spending
cuts. If we start with Wilson’s $125,000-per-job number
seriously, this means that reducing annual government spending
by $125 billion would mean somewhat less than one million fewer
jobs, at least in the short run. That is a considerable figure
and probably more than the U.S. would feel comfortable losing
right now.  If we cut only $50 billion, this should mean 400,000 fewer
jobs, and possibly less if the effect of public spending on
employment is weaker today than it was during the recession.
That’s a serious loss, but if private-sector  job creation 
continues at its current annual rate of 1.9 million a year,
private-sector growth could offset that loss in less than three
months.  The data hold out hope. It is time to start thinking beyond
the present, and embrace the spending cuts that will mean a
smaller debt burden for our children.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 