-- World Bank’s IFC Said to Seek Buyer for Turkish Hospitals
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-01-09T16:31:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/world-bank-s-ifc-said-to-seek-buyer-for-turkish-hospitals.html
An investor group that includes the
World Bank’s International Finance Corp. plans to sell its 26
percent stake in Turkish hospital chain  Universal Saglik
Yatirimlari Holding AS , two people familiar with the plan said.  The group, which includes ADM Capital, a buyout firm based
in  Hong Kong , and PGGM NV, a Dutch pension fund manager, are
having informal talks with potential buyers, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the discussions are
private. They paid $140 million for their stake in the Istanbul-
based company in 2011.  Azmi Ofluoglu, the chairman of Universal who holds the
remaining stake, may also decide to sell a part of his interest,
one of the people said. The sellers hired  Daruma Corporate
Finance , an Istanbul-based investment bank, to advise on the
possible stake sale, the person said.  The IFC has invested about $32 million in Universal since
2011 and holds 4.6 percent of the company, said Lotte Pang, a
spokeswoman for the agency. The IFC usually exits equity
investments after a certain period, and it remains committed to
 Turkey ’s health-care sector, she said.  Esat Erkus, chief executive officer of Universal, and
Ofluoglu didn’t return calls seeking comment. ADM Capital didn’t
make an official available for comment. A spokesman for PGGM
could not immediately comment.  Universal runs 11 hospitals in 7 cities in Turkey,
according to its website. When the three investors bought a
stake in Universal almost two years ago, it operated 18
hospitals.  ADM invested in Universal through its recovery  fund  for
Central and Eastern Europe, Central Asia and Turkey, which
focuses on turning around “operationally strong but financially
distressed companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ;
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  