-- Euro Climbs as ECB Sees Recovery; Aussie Gains on China
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-01-10T22:11:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/yen-weakens-for-second-day-as-abe-urges-boj-on-inflation-target.html
The yen slid to the weakest level
since July 2010 against the dollar after a Nikkei report quoted
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe as saying the central bank
should include maximum employment among its goals.  The yen has plunged since the election of Abe, who has
pledged to increase monetary stimulus to weaken the currency and
end deflation. The euro gained the most in five months versus
the dollar after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
said the economy should gradually recover and  Spain  sold more
than the target at its first debt auction of 2013, adding to
signs the region’s fiscal crisis is easing. The Australian
dollar rose for a fifth day as  China ’s imports increased.  “The more Abe opens his mouth, the more he seems to be
encouraging views for additional monetary easing or actual
devaluation of the yen itself,” Ravi Bharadwaj, a market
analyst in  Washington  at Western Union Business Solutions, a
unit of Western Union Co., said in a phone interview.
“Investors are just reciprocating by selling off the yen.”  The euro rose 1.6 percent to $1.3272 at 5:04 p.m. in  New
York , the most since Aug. 3. The shared currency advanced 2.6
percent to 117.73 yen, reaching the strongest level since June
8. The yen tumbled 1 percent to 88.78 per dollar, the weakest
since July 14, 2010.  Yen Forecasts  Analysts at firms including Morgan Stanley,  Societe
Generale  SA and Citibank Inc. lowered their yen forecasts.
Morgan Stanley said in a report the currency may weaken to 100
yen to the dollar by the fourth quarter, versus an earlier
estimate of 90. Societe Generale said the yen may depreciate to
97 by year-end. The firm previously projected 87 yen. Citibank
said the currency may decline by the end of March to 90 to the
dollar, from an earlier forecast of 87.  Morgan Stanley boosted its year-end euro forecast to $1.26,
from $1.20 previously, and increased its estimate for the
Australian dollar to $1.05, from 96 U.S. cents.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, slid as much as 1.1 percent in the biggest
intraday drop since September.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross-
currency swaps market decreased. The two-year cross-currency
 basis swap  was 25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, from
the euro interbank offered rate, the least since July 2011 on a
closing basis. The gap was 35 basis points in November.  ‘Real Turnaround’  “The two-year basis swap shows how U.S. and European banks
look at each other in terms of credit,” Doug Borthwick,
managing director and head of foreign exchange at Chapdelaine FX
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “We’ve come back a
lot from the stage of fear that the market had regarding  Europe .
It’s a real turnaround in sentiment.”  The ECB left its main refinancing rate at a record-low 0.75
percent at a meeting today in  Frankfurt , as forecast in a
 Bloomberg News  survey of economists.  Draghi said a “gradual recovery should start” later this
year as ECB measures work their way through the economy. At the
same time, it’s too early to claim success and risks to the
outlook are on the “downside,” he said at a news conference
following the rate decision.  “The market clearly went into the meeting looking for
dovish undertones with the broader European economy still quite
slack,”  Mike Moran , a senior currency strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc in New York, said of the ECB session in a
telephone interview. “The market wasn’t really prepared for
such an upbeat message.”  Spanish Bonds  The Spanish Treasury in  Madrid  raised 5.82 billion euros
($7.69 billion) from the sale of three bonds, exceeding its
upper target of 5 billion euros.  Yields on benchmark Spanish 10-year government  bonds 
dropped to a 10-month low, reaching 4.89 percent, the least
since March. They climbed to as high as 7.75 percent in July.  The euro appreciated 1.4 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen tumbled 8.5 percent, and
the dollar fell 0.8 percent.  Japan ’s currency slid versus all of its 16 most-traded
peers after Nikkei quoted Abe as saying in an interview that the
next central-bank governor needs to play a role in achieving a 2
percent inflation target, double the current target.  A draft document obtained by Bloomberg News showed Japan’s
government expects the central bank to conduct “bold” monetary
easing.  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, whose five-
year term ends in April, said yesterday the BOJ was in close
cooperation with the government. The bank meets Jan. 21-22.  Aussie Gains  Australia ’s dollar climbed to the highest in almost four
months versus its U.S. peer after data showed imports increased
in China, the South Pacific nation’s biggest overseas market.  Shipments to China rose 6 percent last month, the customs
administration said in Beijing. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a gain of 3.5 percent.  The Aussie rose 0.8 percent to $1.0598 and touched the
strongest since Sept. 14. The currency gained 1.8 percent to
94.08 yen and reached the highest since August 2008.  The South African rand dropped to a four-week low as
concern about labor unrest in mining and farming outweighed a
boost for commodities.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded the country to
BBB from BBB+, citing deterioration in its economic prospects.  The currency declined as much as 1.1 percent to 8.6858 per
dollar, the weakest since Dec. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  