-- Yuan Forwards Rise to Two-Month High as Economic Rebound Seen
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2013-01-09T02:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/yuan-forwards-rise-to-two-month-high-as-economic-rebound-seen.html
Yuan  forwards rose, touching the
strongest level in almost two months, on speculation investors
will boost holdings of Chinese assets to benefit from an
economic rebound.  Growth will probably exceed 8 percent this year, compared
with a 7.5 percent expansion target for 2012, and new yuan
lending of more than 9 trillion yuan ($1.4 trillion) will be
“enough to support” that, Chen Yulu, president of Renmin
University of  China  and an adviser to the central bank, said
yesterday in Beijing. Authorities may soon announce details for
cross-border yuan loans in Qianhai, an area near Hong Kong,
China Securities Journal reported today.  “The market is quite optimistic about reform and the
economy is improving,” said Bruce Yam, a currency strategist at
Sun Hung Kai Financial Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “More money is coming
to China, which is a good investment choice given global
monetary easing.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.11 percent
to 6.3038 per dollar as of 10:08 a.m. in Hong Kong, a 1.3
percent discount to the onshore spot rate, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts reached 6.3015 earlier, the
strongest level since Nov. 13, and advanced for a third day.  Exports rose 5 percent in December from a year earlier,
compared with a 2.9 percent increase the previous month,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey before
official data due tomorrow. Economic growth slowed for a seventh
quarter in the three months through September, expanding by 7.4
percent from a year earlier.  Fixing Weakened  The yuan was little changed at 6.2239 per dollar in
 Shanghai , according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The People’s Bank of China weakened the  reference rate  by 0.02
percent to 6.2814. The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1
percent on either side of the daily fixing. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of expected moves in exchange rates used
to price options, held at 1.45 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan gained 0.03
percent to 6.2048 per dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  