-- Zambia Mulls Power Imports to Meet Demand From Miners
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2013-01-10T07:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-09/zambia-mulls-power-imports-to-meet-demand-from-miners.html
Zambia’s energy regulator proposed
that the government of  Africa ’s biggest copper producer should
import power from the region to stem a shortfall.  The country could buy electricity from members of the
 Southern African Power Pool , a common market for electricity in
the 15-nation  Southern African Development Community , including
 Mozambique , the  Democratic Republic  of Congo and  South Africa ,
Energy Regulation Board Chairman George Chabwera said yesterday.
The regulator also wants the government to introduce a so-called
grid code, which would make it easier for private producers to
sell directly to consumers, he said.  “That’s where the earth-moving decisions will be,” he
said in an interview in Lusaka, Zambia’s capital.  The southern African nation is suffering from a power
deficit that is hampering growth in the  mining industry .
Zambia’s biggest power producer, Zesco Ltd., plans to spend
about $5 billion to address the shortfall, according to the
utility. Companies including  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ,  Barrick
Gold Corp. (ABX)  and China Nonferrous Metal Mining Co. have mines in
the country.  By using a grid code, private producers would pay a set fee
to provide power to customers using existing electricity
transmission lines, said Chabwera, who took over as chairman
Nov. 29.  Zambia has a power shortage of 70 megawatts in peak
periods, Zesco Managing Director Cyprian Chitundu said by mobile
phone. The producer is in the process of asking mining companies
to reduce their usage by about 100 megawatts in the evenings, he
said.  Usage Reduction  “At peak, if they could just cut down by 10 megawatts to
15 megawatts each, it would really help,” Chitundu said. The
curbs will last for the next nine months, until the utility
brings additional generation capacity into production, he said.  Zesco applied to the Energy Regulation Board to raise
electricity prices by an average of 26 percent from Nov. 1 in
July, partly to fund its expansion plan. The regulator was
unable to make a decision because it didn’t have a board until
Nov. 27. A ruling, which won’t be backdated, will be made by the
end of March, Chabwera said. Zambia’s annual inflation rate was
7.3 percent in December.  “We are between a rock and a hard place,” he said.
Consumers don’t want prices to increase while the utility is
undertaking scheduled power cuts to keep demand in check, said
Chabwera.  The kwacha appreciated 0.7 percent to 5.235 per dollar by
8:50 a.m. in Lusaka, paring its gain this year to 0.9 percent.  “You could call it a chicken-and-egg situation,” Chitundu
said. The power utility needs funds from a higher tariff to
improve its services, he said.  Zambia relies on hydro-power for more than 90 percent of
its current 1,750 megawatts of generation capacity, almost all
of which Zesco operates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  