-- 
Key Assembles Coalition After Biggest New Zealand Poll Victory in 60 Years

-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-11-28T05:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-26/key-re-elected-as-new-zealand-prime-minister-clearing-way-for-asset-sales.html
New Zealand  Prime Minister John Key
began forming a government after his National party gained its
best election result in 60 years, securing support from two
smaller parties to ensure a majority in parliament.  Key met with senior ministers yesterday and plans talks
today with the ACT and United Future parties, which backed him
in the last parliament and have pledged to do so again. With 60
seats in the 121-member legislature, Key will be able to govern
with support from the two parties, which both have one seat.  “He will be able to put through most of his economic
agenda, I would think, without too much difficulty,” Raymond
Miller, an associate professor at the University of Auckland,
said in a telephone interview. “The challenge is to remain in
touch with public opinion and not to exceed his powers, given
the relatively small working majority he’s going to have.”  National won 48 percent of votes, the most it has taken
since 1951, compared with 27 percent for the main opposition
 Labour Party , according to the  Electoral Commission . In his
second term, the 50-year-old multimillionaire and former foreign
exchange head at  Merrill Lynch & Co.  must steer New Zealand’s
recovery from its worst natural disaster in 80 years amid global
economic turmoil.  Balanced, Moderate  “It’s my intention over the next three years to run a
government that’s very much along the lines and similar to the
previous government that we ran in 2008 to 2011,” Key told
reporters in Auckland yesterday. “I expect it to be a balanced
government, I expect it to be moderate.”  Key triumphed over Labour leader  Phil Goff , 58, after
managing the economy through a global financial crisis and a Feb.
22 earthquake that devastated the business district of the
second-largest city, Christchurch, killing 181 people.  He has pledged to sell part of the government’s stake in
four energy companies and the national airline to help erase a
NZ$18.4 billion ($13.6 billion)  budget deficit .  “We have got the result that markets were largely
expecting,” said  Craig Brown , a senior investment analyst at
Auckland-based  fund manager  OnePath. “He can actually hit the
ground running and continue with the policies and approach he
was taking before, which I think is important given the volatile
financial markets that we’re operating in.”  Support for National rose from 45 percent in the last
election, when the party gained 58 seats.  Key’s opinion poll support as preferred prime minister has
exceeded 50 percent all year even as economic growth slowed and
New Zealand lost its top credit grades at Standard & Poor’s and
Fitch Ratings in September, with both citing concern that
government and household debt was too high.  ‘Clean Result’  Still, New Zealand stocks have outperformed in the region,
with the NZX 50 Index down 2.7 percent this year compared with
the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) ’s 19 percent drop. The benchmark
gained 0.2 percent at the 5 p.m. market close in Wellington,
with the  New Zealand dollar  rising as much as 2 percent to 75.54
U.S. cents, the strongest in a week.  “The market liked the clean result and the fact that we’re
going to have a stable government for the next three years,”
said Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ
National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The kiwi has managed to do
quite well today.”  Earthquake Impact  The Christchurch earthquake and a temblor in September last
year that didn’t cause any fatalities damped  consumer spending .
New Zealand faces a NZ$20 billion reconstruction bill.  While the Treasury Department forecasts annual average
growth of 2.3 percent in the year ending in March, the central
bank has said the country may not be immune to a worsening of
the European debt crisis.  “Anything happening in New Zealand now pales into
insignificance in terms of what’s happening internationally,”
Sam Stubbs, chief executive officer of Tower Ltd’s investment
unit, said in an interview.  Pre-election polls showed Key was four times more popular
than Goff, with a reputation for financial management and
ability to connect with voters. He was photographed drinking
beer while cooking meat on a barbeque with  Prince William  in
January last year, when the U.K. royal visited Wellington.  Rugby  World Cup   At the opening game of the  Rugby World Cup  on Sept. 9 in
Auckland, he sang the anthem alongside the national All Blacks
team on the field, and was on the podium to shake the hand of
captain  Richie McCaw  after the team won the final on Oct. 23.  Support for Labour slumped from 34 percent in the 2008
election as voters rejected Goff’s plans to raise taxes on
 capital gains  and high income earners. Labour, which secured 34
seats, opposes the proposed asset sales and pledged to remove
 sales tax  on fresh fruit and vegetables to ease the cost of
living for low income families.  “It wasn’t our time this time,” Goff said in televised
comments after conceding defeat. “We can be proud of the fact
we took some of the tough decisions that others have shied away
from in the knowledge that they might not be immediately
popular.”  Goff told reporters he is reviewing his leadership of the
party and will discuss that with colleagues this week. Labour’s
vote dropped to the lowest since 1928 as the rival Green party
surged to 10.6 percent from 6.7 percent three years ago to take
13 seats in parliament, according to  Electoral Commission  data.  The New Zealand First party, formed by veteran politician
Winston Peters after his break with National, won eight seats
from none in 2008. Key has ruled out working with Peters.  Maori Party  ACT candidate John Banks won the Epsom constituency in
Auckland and will be his party’s only parliamentarian, as it got
1.1 percent of the national vote. United Future leader Peter
Dunne, who was revenue minister in Key’s previous government,
retained the Ohariu constituency and is also on his own in
parliament.  Key also said he plans talks with the Maori party, which
won three seats and has opposed the asset sales program. The
party may support the plan if Maori tribes are able to be
“major” investors in the stakes, co-leader Tariana Turia said
on  Television New Zealand  yesterday.  The Electoral Commission estimated that 73.8 percent of
enrolled voters participated in the Nov. 26 ballot. That would
be the lowest turnout since 1887, according to the agency’s
website.  Two Ballots  Under the nation’s mixed member proportional voting system,
New Zealanders cast two ballots, one for a party and the other
for a candidate in their constituency. There are 63 general
constituencies and seven special constituencies reserved for
native Maori voters.  Parties need to garner five percent of the vote or win a
constituency to get into parliament.  In a non-binding referendum alongside the ballot, voters
were asked to retain or change the voting system. Fifty-four
percent said they want to keep the so-called MMP system, while
43 percent opted to change it, according to votes submitted
before polling day  tallied  on the Electoral Commission website.
The commission aims to publish official results by Dec. 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  