-- Australia TD Inflation Gauge Declines for First Time in 5 Months
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-12-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/australia-td-inflation-gauge-declines-for-first-time-in-5-months.html
A private gauge of Australian
inflation declined in November for the first time in five
months, led by drops in the cost of vegetables and fuel.  Consumer prices slid 0.1 percent last month after rising
0.1 percent in October, an index compiled by TD Securities Inc.
and the Melbourne Institute released in Sydney today showed.
Prices rose 2.5 percent from a year earlier, in the middle of
the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent target, it showed.  Investors are pricing in an 87 percent chance Reserve Bank
of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  will cut the benchmark
 interest rate  by another quarter percentage point to 3 percent
at tomorrow’s policy meeting.  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-
Pacific research for TD Securities, is among a minority of
economists who predict the central bank will stand pat.  “Better global activity data continues to trickle through,
especially from the U.S. and China, while underlying inflation
appears set to remain mid-target, well away from the bottom of
the range,” she said in a statement. “While it is appropriate
to leave an easing bias on the table, we cannot identify a
smoking gun for a near-term policy adjustment.”  Today’s inflation gauge showed vegetable prices fell 11
percent in November, the fuel price dropped 4.5 percent and
holiday travel and accommodation declined. Costs of bread,
cereal products, newspapers, books and stationery and dairy
products all increased, it showed.  The Melbourne Institute is a research unit of Melbourne
University, and TD Securities is a division of  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , Canada’s second-largest lender. The monthly inflation
index measures the prices of more than 1,000 goods and services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  