-- Barak Says West Bank Building a Reaction to Palestinian Upgrade
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-12-02T09:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/barak-says-west-bank-building-a-reaction-to-palestinian-upgrade.html
Approving the construction of 3,000
homes in Jerusalem and the West Bank was a reaction to the
Palestinian bid to upgrade its status at the  United Nations ,
Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said today.  Israel approved the building, including construction in the
West Bank area known as E1, less than 24 hours after the UN
General Assembly voted in favor of a resolution recognizing the
Palestine Liberation Organization as a non-member observer state
on Nov. 29.  Barak denied a  report  in today’s Haaretz newspaper that he
told U.S. officials that the decision to build was primarily due
to electoral considerations by Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s Likud party ahead of Jan. 22 elections.  “Barak said in his discussions in the U.S. that the
Israeli government has for the past 20 years retained the right
to build in E1,” the ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
“The defense minister said the construction was not due to
electoral considerations, but that during the election period
such a reaction should be expected to the UN decision.”  The  Palestinian Authority , the UN and the U.S. consider all
Israeli settlements in the  West Bank  illegal. The area called
E1, east of the capital between Jerusalem and the Maaleh Adumim
settlement, is particularly sensitive. Israeli construction
there may cut off Palestinians from their aspirational capital
in east Jerusalem in a future peace accord.  Israeli settlements and east Jerusalem construction “are
counterproductive and make it harder to resume direct
negotiations or achieve a two-state solution,” U.S. National
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said on Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  