-- David Beckham Ends Galaxy Career With Second MLS Cup Title
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-12-02T05:50:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/beckham-leaves-galaxy-with-second-mls-cup-in-3-1-win-over-dynamo.html
David Beckham  capped his career as a
Los Angeles Galaxy midfielder with a second Major League Soccer
championship as his team rallied to defeat the Houston Dynamo 3-
1.  Landon Donovan  scored the tiebreaking goal on a penalty
kick in the 65th minute yesterday after the Galaxy entered the
locker room at halftime, trailing 1-0.  “I’m sad it’s the end,” Beckham, 37, said in a televised
interview at Home Depot Center in Los Angeles. “Happy I’m
wearing this uniform today. Happy I’ve been successful with this
club for four years.”  Omar Gonzalez, named the Most Valuable Player, tied the
score in the 61st minute for the defending champion Galaxy after
Calen Carr opened the scoring for the Dynamo in the 44th minute.
 Robbie Keane  added Los Angeles’ final goal on a penalty kick.  The Galaxy won their fourth MLS Cup, matching the record of
D.C. United.  Beckham declined to say where he will be next season,
although he said he would continue to support soccer.  “My commitment to this league, my commitment to this sport
and this country will continue to be the same as it was when I
came here six years ago,” Beckham said.  Beckham joined the Galaxy in January 2007 and helped the
team win its third MLS championship last season. Although he
signed a new two-year contract in January, it included an option
on the second year.  His presence coincided with a period of unprecedented
growth for the 17-year-old league, which has added seven clubs
in the past six years. Fifteen of the 19 MLS teams now play in
soccer-specific stadiums, up from five before 2007.  Beckham, who won league titles with  Manchester United  in
 England  and Real  Madrid  in  Spain  before switching to the U.S.,
said he decided to leave the Galaxy because he had achieved
everything he wanted with the club.  “I still feel like I have one more challenge in me as a
player, even at 37 years old,” Beckham said in a televised
interview on Nov. 20. “Where that will be yet, I haven’t
decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  