-- Berlusconi Mulls Comeback as Italian Bonds Rally: Euro Credit
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-12-03T11:12:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/berlusconi-mulls-comeback-as-italian-bonds-rally-euro-credit.html
The four-month rally in Italian bonds
risks stalling as former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi 
ponders a comeback that will further shake up the political
landscape before next year’s election.  Berlusconi’s possible return, a month after he said he
wouldn’t run, comes as the extra yield investors demand to hold
Italian 30-year bonds instead of similar-maturity German bonds
fell to the lowest since August 2011. The market signals
investor confidence is returning after the  European Central Bank 
offered a bond-buying backstop to defend the euro and Italian
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  implemented an economic overhaul to
contain the region’s second-biggest debt.  “Political risk may be priced in again in the new year,”
said Ralf Ahrens, who helps manage about $19 billion as head of
fixed income at Frankfurt-Trust and holds Italian bonds. “We
are cautious because we see that the rally has lasted for
several months.”  Italian securities due in at least 10 years have returned 7
percentage points more than the average for top-rated German,
Finish and Dutch securities since ECB President  Mario Draghi 
announced on Sept. 6 a plan to buy government bonds of nations
that request aid. Draghi’s July pledge to do “whatever it
takes” to defend the euro, along with the ECB backstop, eased
the perceived risk of a euro breakup.  Spread Narrows  Thirty-year Italian bond yields fell 37 basis points, or
0.37 percentage point, in November. They dropped to as low as
4.40 percent today, the least since December 2010. The spread
relative to similar-maturity benchmark German bunds narrowed to
283 basis points today from a euro-era record of 519 basis
points in November 2011.  “The Italian rally has been very impressive,” said Mohit Kumar, head of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in  London . “The election is a risk that will be apparent in
the first quarter of next year.”  Billionaire Berlusconi said on Nov. 24 he may break with
the People of Liberty party, or PDL, that he founded to start a
new movement and seek the premiership. The announcement upended
PDL primaries scheduled for Dec. 16 that were set to anoint
Secretary General Angelino Alfano, Berlusconi’s hand-picked
successor, as the candidate.  New Party  Alfano met with Berlusconi for five hours on Dec. 1 and
said afterward that the primaries would still take place and
that it would be Berlusconi’s decision whether to run.
Berlusconi, 76, may announce his new party as soon as this week,
newspapers including the Berlusconi-family-owned Il Giornale
have reported.  Monti’s austerity may be at risk with lawmakers such as
Berlusconi, who supported his unelected government, appealing to
voters weary of a recession in its second year. Joblessness
climbed to a 13-year high of 11.1 percent in October.  A Berlusconi party would be backed by 9 percent of voters
in elections due by May, giving him the third-biggest political
force in the country, according to a poll released Nov. 30 by
SWG. Berlusconi may also build a coalition with his old party,
the PDL, and possibly resurrect his ties with the regional
 Northern League , a collation that would boost his clout.  ‘Political Risks’  “Italy isn’t a focus of the market, but there are
elections coming up early next year, and this could be a risk
factor to have a closer look at,” said Christian Reicherter, an
analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “It’s possible the spread
will widen when we come closer to that. It’s a risk factor and
I’m not quite sure it’s priced into the spread.”  A Berlusconi return may backfire, further fracturing the
parties on the center-right and aiding  Democratic Party  leader
Pier Luigi Bersani in his bid to succeed Monti. The Democratic
Party and its allies would probably win about 30 percent of the
vote if elections were held today, according to the SWG poll.  Bersani also has backed the Monti government, though he’s
said he would consider amending Monti’s labor market reform and
pension overhaul.  When Monti was appointed after Berlusconi’s government
unraveled 12 months ago, 10-year Italian bond yields exceeded 7
percent. Monti, 69, adopted additional austerity measures to
contain the euro region’s second-biggest debt, overhauled the
pension system and revamped  labor laws . Since Monti was sworn
in, Italian bonds of all maturities have delivered the highest
returns of the euro-area nations that haven’t received outside
assistance.  Bond Returns  Italian bonds maturing in at least 10 years have made 9.6
percent since Sept. 6, according to indexes tracked by Bloomberg
and the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies.
That compares with gains of 1.9 percent for  Germany , 2.8 percent
for  Finland  and 3.1 percent for the Netherlands, which all have
the top AAA grade from the three major ratings firms.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Italy’s debt Baa2, the
second-lowest investment grade. Since the end of November 2011,
Italian bonds of all maturities have made 26 percent, trailing
only those of Portugal and Ireland in the region.  For now, the ECB backstop is overriding concern that
reforms will be derailed by politics, according to Georg Grodzki, head of credit research at Legal & General Investment
Management in London.  “The greed is at the moment overriding the fear,” Grodzki
said. Legal & General has $290 billion of bond funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  