-- Graeme McDowell Ends Drought by Winning Woods’s World Challenge
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-03T05:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/mcdowell-wins-tiger-woods-s-world-challenge-for-second-time.html
Graeme McDowell of Northern Ireland
ended a two-year winless drought with his second victory at
golf’s World Challenge, an event hosted by Tiger Woods.  McDowell shot a 4-under-par 68 during yesterday’s final
round at Sherwood Country Club in Thousand Oaks,  California , and
finished with a four-round total of 17-under 271, two shots
better than runner-up Keegan Bradley. Bo Van Pelt was third and
Woods, the defending champion, tied Jim Furyk and  Rickie Fowler 
for fourth place at 9 under in the 18-player field.  McDowell, the 2010 U.S. Open winner, received $1.2 million
for his first victory in two years. McDowell, 33, previously won
the World Challenge in 2010 when he rallied from a four-shot
final-round deficit and beat Woods in a playoff.  “Just over the moon to kind of get the job done,”
McDowell said. “It’s been a hell of a two years since I sat
here as a winner. We like to say that it’s all about the
processes and going through the motions and trying to get
better. But we all measure ourselves by the wins. I’m relieved
to get across the line and take some nice confidence into this
little off period I’ve got coming up.”  Bradley said there were no repeats of the third-round
heckling he received in which a fan called him a cheater for
using a belly putter. The U.S. Golf Association yesterday called
the incident “deplorable” and said it was “unfounded
criticism from an obviously uneducated spectator.”  The USGA and the Royal & Ancient Golf Club of  Scotland 
earlier in the week introduced a proposal to ban anchored
putting strokes, a rule change that wouldn’t take effect until
2016. A stroke in which the putter’s butt-end is rested against
a golfer’s body to create a pendulum-like swing has been used by
players to win three of the past five major tournaments.  Belly Putter  At the 2011 PGA Championship, Bradley became the first
golfer to win a major title using a belly putter.  The USGA said in a statement there is “no place in our
game” for the heckling that Bradley received and that using an
anchored putting stroke remains within the rules of golf.  “There should not be a shred of criticism of such players
or any qualification or doubt about their achievements, and we
think that it is inappropriate even to suggest anything to the
contrary,” the USGA said. “Rule changes address the future and
not the past. Up until now and until such time as a rule change
were to be implemented, golfers using an anchored stroke will
have been playing by the rules of golf.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  