-- Chiefs ‘Suffering’ as They Host NFL Game After Fatal Shootings
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-12-02T19:40:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/chiefs-suffering-as-they-host-nfl-game-after-fatal-shootings.html
Kansas City Chiefs Chairman Clark Hunt said players were “really suffering” as they played at
the stadium where teammate Jovan Belcher killed himself after
police say he fatally shot his girlfriend.  The Chiefs hosted the Carolina Panthers in a National
Football League game today at Arrowhead Stadium, where Belcher
took his own life in a parking lot yesterday about 10 yards from
General Manager Scott Pioli and coach Romeo Crennel.  Before the game, fans observed a moment of silence for all
victims of domestic violence.  Hunt said he left it to Crennel and players to decide
whether the game should be played as scheduled. The coach
consulted with team captains before deciding to play, Hunt said
in a series of on-field interviews before the game.  “We do have a lot of guys who are really hurting,” he
said. “They’re going to come out here and give it their best
today, but I don’t think anyone could fault them for being
distracted.”  The NFL historically has been reluctant to postpone games.  It stayed with the schedule in November 2007 after
Washington Redskins safety Sean Taylor was fatally shot by an
intruder in his Miami home. In 2010, the Denver Broncos played a
game scheduled six days after the suicide of wide receiver Kenny McKinley.  The NFL also went ahead with games in November 1963, just
48 hours after the assassination of President Kennedy, a move
that then-Commissioner Pete Rozelle later said was the biggest
mistake of his career.  3-Month-Old Daughter  In 1978, the 49ers hosted the Pittsburgh Steelers in a
“Monday Night Football” game hours after San Francisco Mayor
George Moscone and Supervisor Harvey Milk were shot to death by
another city supervisor, Dan White.  The Kansas City Star yesterday quoted an unidentified
person saying Belcher had argued with Kasandra Perkins after she
attended a concert by rhythm-and-blues artist Trey Songz. The
newspaper said the person was a friend of Perkins, 22.  Perkins and Belcher had a 3-month-old daughter. Belcher’s
mother, who lives at the home where the shooting occurred,
called police.  The Chiefs are in last place in the American Football
Conference’s West division, entering today’s game with a 1-10
record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  