-- China Must Pursue Reform as Demographic Dividend Wanes
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-02T05:43:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/china-must-pursue-reform-as-demographic-dividend-wanes.html
China  must pursue reform to keep its
economy “full of vigor” as the demographic advantages that
helped boost the nation’s growth wane, said  Yao Jingyuan , the
former chief economist at the statistics bureau.  “The demographic dividend is dwindling sharply,” Yao said
at a conference in Beijing today, referring to the economic
benefits that arise from decades where an economy has a higher
proportion of working-age citizens. “We are left only with the
reform dividend,” said Yao, who was chief economist at the
National Bureau of Statistics for a decade until his retirement
last year.  Yao’s comments underscore calls by Vice Premier  Li Keqiang ,
promoted last month to the No. 2 spot in the ruling Communist
Party, that three decades of economic opening must be
accelerated as the push to overhaul the economy encounters
obstacles. Rising labor costs, environmental protection and  yuan 
appreciation have curbed China’s export competitiveness and
investment-driven growth has led to overcapacity and a declining
share of consumption in the nation’s economy, Yao said.  “We haven’t made substantial and fundamental progress” in
transforming the country’s growth pattern and raising domestic
demand, a need that was highlighted as far back as the Asian
financial crisis in 1997, said Yao, who is a councilor to the
State Council, China’s cabinet “We are now back in the same
place where we’ve had a change in the external environment and a
recession in developed countries. Our factories have had to
slash production or shut down: we coughed when they got sick.”  External Imbalances  Investment growth has outpaced consumption for years,
posing dangers including higher bad debts, overcapacity, lower
profitability, environmental degradation, social instability and
external imbalances, according to the  World Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund . The global financial crisis exposed
the risks to  China’s economy  from its dependence on  exports , as
shipments fell for 13 months and about 20 million migrant
workers lost their jobs.  Consumption, which includes government and household
spending, fell to 49.1 percent of gross domestic product in 2011
from 59.6 percent in 2002. Last year’s figure was close to the
lowest contribution since China’s reform and opening policy
started in 1978, government data show.  “Changing this model has become of paramount importance if
China is to avoid a disruptive bust in investment in the next
one to two years and lapse into a middle-income trap in the
medium term,”  George Magnus , senior economic adviser at UBS AG,
wrote in a Nov. 22 report, referring to growth slowdowns in
developing nations after incomes rise.  “China’s economic growth in the past 30 years was mainly
driven by the demographic dividend and reform dividend,” Yao
said. China’s era as an economy with low input costs is gone
forever, he said.  “How to keep China’s economy full of vigor in the future
and how to increase the reform dividend are the most important
tasks in the next stage. Every step forward is difficult.”  Yao said China would have no problem achieving economic
growth of more than 7.5 percent this year, and the government
will achieve its target of keeping the inflation rate under 4
percent.  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Nerys Avery,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  