-- China May Keep 7.5% Growth Target as Manufacturing Gains
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-03T08:15:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/china-may-keep-7-5-growth-target-as-manufacturing-gains.html
China  may maintain its annual
economic growth target at 7.5 percent next year in a sign the
new leadership headed by  Xi Jinping  won’t tolerate a bigger
slowdown from the lowest goal since 2004.  Nine of 16 analysts surveyed Nov. 22-30 by  Bloomberg News 
forecast the government will set a goal unchanged from 2012,
while six expect a decline to 7 percent and one sees an increase
to 8 percent. Top economic officials meet this month to map out
policies for 2013 and may set the target that will be officially
announced in March at the annual session of parliament.  A goal of 7.5 percent would signal that Xi and  Li Keqiang ,
set to succeed  Wen Jiabao  as premier, are prepared to expand
fiscal and monetary easing should China’s nascent economic
recovery falter. A manufacturing gauge rose to a seven-month
high in November, data released Dec. 1 showed, adding to
evidence growth is rebounding from a three-year low.  “This will send a clear message from the new leadership
that they want to ensure stable economic growth,” said Li Miaoxian, a Beijing-based economist with Bocom International
Holdings Co., the investment banking unit of Bank of
Communications Co. “Seven percent would be too low because it
will make the market worry.”  Li forecast a target of 7.5 percent, which he said would
probably lead to actual growth higher than 8 percent and allow
the government to be “more accommodative” in its economic
policies than it could with a 7 percent goal.  Economic Recovery  The increase in November’s official manufacturing
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index to 50.6 underscores optimism the
economy is recovering after a seven-quarter slowdown. A gauge of
new orders rose to its highest level since April and the output
reading was the highest in six months, according to the report
from the National Bureau of Statistics and China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., the nation’s biggest publicly
traded mill, said Nov. 12 that it would raise prices for most
cold-rolled products for December delivery, the first increase
for three months.  A separate manufacturing index released today from  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Markit Economics, which focuses on smaller
businesses, rose to 50.5 in November, showing the first
expansion in 13 months. Services industries maintained their
pace of expansion last month, according to a federation PMI
today that showed a 55.6 reading, up from 55.5 in October.  Yuan Strengthens  The  yuan  had its fourth monthly gain, its longest winning
streak in more than a year, on signs economic growth is
recovering. The currency climbed 0.2 percent in November and
weakened less than 0.1 percent to 6.2279 as of 3:16 p.m. in
 Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chinese stocks fell, dragging the benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index down 1 percent to its lowest level in almost
four years, as consumer-staple companies declined. Kweichow
Moutai Co., the world’s second-largest distiller by market value,
dropped on concern demand for high-end liquor is decreasing
while Datong Coal Industry Co. fell after the benchmark price
for thermal coal decreased.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Japan  reported  capital spending 
excluding software rose more than expected last quarter, while
Australian retail sales were unchanged in October from the
previous month. Thailand and  Indonesia  both reported inflation
that eased in November by more than economists estimated.  In  Europe , a manufacturing PMI for Russia showed a slower
expansion in November; Markit will also release surveys for
countries including France and  Germany . The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index may show manufacturing in the U.S.
expanded in November at a slower pace, while the Commerce
Department may report gains in construction spending eased in
October from the previous month.  China Expansion  China’s gross domestic product may expand 7.7 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the first acceleration
in eight quarters, according to the median estimate of 29
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Growth was 7.4 percent in the
three months through September.  Premier Wen set a target for annual average expansion of 7
percent in the nation’s five-year plan from 2011 to 2015 to
create a more sustainable economy focused on consumption,
shifting away from investment and export-dependent growth that
led to environmental degradation, rising inequality and
manufacturing overcapacity.  Wen set a 2012 goal of 7.5 percent. Yet the economy’s
 deterioration  in the second and third quarters raised the risk
he would miss the target for the first time since taking office
in 2003.  August Forecasts  The median estimate for 2012 growth in Bloomberg’s November
survey of economists was 7.7 percent, down from 8 percent in
August, while the pace for next year will pick up to 8.1 percent,
compared with August’s median of 8.4 percent. The economy
expanded at an annual average pace of 10.6 percent in the decade
through 2011.  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimate Wen, in
his final work report to parliament, will announce a 2013 target
of 7 percent.  That pace would bring the government closer to its five-
year plan goal, said  Zhu Haibin , chief China economist at
JPMorgan in Hong Kong.  “It will be a clear signal to the local governments that
the new Chinese leaders want more quality in growth instead of
just a high growth rate,” Zhu said. “The official growth
target is always taken as the minimum by local governments,” so
7.5 percent may encourage some “to blindly expand investment.”  Reluctant Party  At the same time, shifting growth away from investment may
slow expansion to a pace the Communist Party would be reluctant
to tolerate, according to Citigroup analysts.  Last month’s party congress that anointed a new generation
of leaders set an objective of doubling 2010 GDP and per capita
income by 2020, implying annual average growth of 7 percent,
Citigroup economists in  Hong Kong  led by Ding Shuang wrote in a
Nov. 27 report.  That indicates “a minimum rate of growth needs to be
achieved,” they said. “The new leaders may not see it as an
option to implement big bang reforms that promise to unleash
long-term potential but sacrifice growth significantly” in the
short run.  --Zhou Xin. With assistance from Nerys Avery and Zheng Lifei in
Beijing and Ailing Tan, Shamim Adam and Rina Chandran in
 Singapore . Editors: Scott Lanman, Andrew Joyce  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  