-- Chorus Shares Plunge on Regulator Price Plan: Wellington Mover
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-12-03T04:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/chorus-shares-plunge-on-regulator-price-plan-wellington-mover.html
Chorus Ltd. (CNU) , New Zealand’s biggest
telephone network operator, fell the most on record after saying
that proposed cuts to its wholesale broadband fees could curb
annual profits by as much as NZ$160 million ($131 million).  The Commerce Commission said monthly prices for Chorus’s
so-called unbundled bit-stream access should be cut by about 28
percent to NZ$32.45 per line from Dec. 1, 2014, in a draft
 recommendation  today. The decision will be finalized in June
next year. Chorus shares fell 14.4 percent, the biggest daily
drop since the company split from  Telecom (TEL)  Corp. of New Zealand
Ltd. and listed separately on Nov. 23 last year.  The company’s UBA service allows  Internet providers  to
supply broadband to homes and businesses without needing to
replicate Chorus’s existing copper-based network. Chorus, which
is working with the government to build an ultra-fast broadband
network, is concerned that lowering its price will deter uptake
of the new fiber-based service.  “At a time when  New Zealand  needs economic efficiency,
productivity and social progress enabled by public private
partnerships, today’s decisions are a significant step
backward,” Chief Executive Officer Mark Ratcliffe said in a
statement.  Chorus shares fell 49 cents to NZ$2.91 at the 5 p.m.
Wellington close.  The draft ruling was “very problematic,” Prime Minister
John Key told reporters in Wellington today. He wouldn’t rule
out legislation if the final decision was unchanged.  The regulator reviewed the prices following Chorus’s
separation from Telecom, comparing them to other countries with
similar pricing models. It also issued a final decision on the
pricing for access to Chorus’s copper line network, reducing the
costs by 3.85 percent, according to the statement. That cut was
less than previously expected.  “The collective impact of these two changes if the draft
UBA decision were to become final could require Chorus to
fundamentally rethink its business model,  capital structure  and
approach to dividends,” the company said in the statement.  The UBA ruling could reduce annual earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization by between NZ$150
million and NZ$160 million from December 2014, the company said.
In August, it reported an inaugural EBITDA of NZ$399 million for
the seven months to June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  