-- Dow Chemical’s Liveris Says Fiscal Deal Would Revive Confidence
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-12-02T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/dow-chemical-s-liveris-says-fiscal-deal-would-revive-confidence.html
A U.S. political compromise resolving
the so-called fiscal cliff would help lift American consumer and
business confidence and revive the nation’s sluggish economy,
the chairman of  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  said.  “We’re living in a world of uncertainty and volatility,”
 Andrew Liveris , chief executive officer of the Midland,
Michigan-based company, told the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s
Inside Business television program, according to a transcript.
“Rebuilding confidence even with a mini deal and a version of
the cliff I think will start to trigger what politicians are
desperately looking for, which is the beginning of confidence
and therefore a consumer and investment cycle.”  Budget talks between Democrats and Republicans were at a
stalemate, U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said Nov. 30. His
comment came shortly after President  Barack Obama  warned of
“prolonged negotiations.” The issue has gained more urgency as
the clock ticks down on more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to start taking effect in January.  Australian-born Liveris said he had taken part in a series
of meetings with other CEOs and business groups at the White
House following the presidential elections in early November,
according to the transcript of the interview.  Compromise Sought  There was a “better-than 50 percent chance” that a
partial deal will be reached in the next three to four weeks and
that a “full blown” agreement may be concluded in six to nine
months later, he said. “Averting the fiscal cliff in my view is
driving this president and the Republicans to come to the table
with compromise.”  Obama has proposed a framework that would raise taxes
immediately on top earners and set an Aug. 1 deadline for
rewriting the  tax code  and deciding on spending cuts, according
to administration officials.  It calls for $1.6 trillion in tax increases, $350 billion
in cuts in health programs, $250 billion in cuts in other
programs and $800 billion in assumed savings from the wind-down
of the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan , according to the officials,
who asked for anonymity.  The deadlock is over  tax rates  for the top 2 percent of
wage earners in country, extending a battle that has been waged
for more than a year between Obama and Republicans in Congress.  The  Congressional Budget Office  has warned that if Congress
doesn’t avert the fiscal cliff, the economy might slip into a
recession next year and boost the  unemployment rate  to 9.1
percent in the fourth quarter of 2013, compared with 7.9 percent
in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at   ptighe@bloomberg.net  