-- Hedge Funds Increase Bullish Bets Most Since August: Commodities
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-12-03T21:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/hedge-funds-increase-bullish-bets-most-since-august-commodities.html
Hedge funds  increased bullish bets on
commodities by the most since August as evidence that  China  is
accelerating outweighed concern that U.S. lawmakers have yet to
resolve an impasse over automatic spending cuts and tax rises.  Speculators and money managers increased net-long positions
across 18 U.S. futures and options by 9.8 percent to 929,588
 contracts  in the week ended Nov. 27, the biggest gain since Aug.
21, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. Gold
holdings reached a six-week high, and wagers on a wheat rally
jumped the most since June. Cattle bets more than doubled. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials rose 1.9
percent in November, the first monthly gain since August.  The world economy is in its best shape in 18 months because
of the acceleration in China, the biggest consumer of everything
from cotton to copper to coal, according to the Bloomberg Global
Poll of 862 investors last week. The U.S. probably will avoid
the so-called fiscal cliff that the  Congressional Budget Office 
has warned risks sending the country back into recession, even
as  Europe  remains mired in a debt crisis, the poll showed.  “I wouldn’t say that it was a green light all ahead for
commodities, but the market is turning slowly based primarily on
improved real numbers out of China that outweigh slowdowns in
Europe and the U.S.,” said Adrian Day, who manages about $170
million of assets as president of Adrian Day Asset Management in
Annapolis,  Maryland . China is “overwhelmingly the most
important factor,” he said.  Price Gains  The S&P GSCI rose less than 0.1 percent last week, led by
gains in industrial metals and agriculture. The MSCI All-Country
World Index of  equities  advanced 0.9 percent and the dollar fell
0.1 percent against a basket of six trading partners. Treasuries
returned 0.4 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows. The
GSCI climbed 0.1 percent to settle at 650.78 at 3:51 p.m. in  New
York .  The  U.S. economy , the world’s biggest, expanded 2.7 percent
in the three months ended Sept. 30, more than economists
forecast, according to Commerce Department data on Nov. 29. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 U.S. cities
showed that  home prices  in the 12 months ended September
advanced by the most since July 2010.  Confidence in  China’s economy  rose to the highest in more
than a year amid optimism that the new leadership headed by  Xi
Jinping  will improve the financial climate, according to the
Bloomberg investor poll. Manufacturing in the country rose to
the highest level in seven months in November, the National
Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 1.  Tax Deadlock  A deadlock between President  Barack Obama  and Republicans
in Congress over $600 billion in spending cuts and tax increases
has extended over a year. Missing the deadline at the end of
December means the economy goes over the so-called fiscal cliff
and probably will tumble into a recession, the Congressional
Budget Office reiterated Nov. 8.  “Until investors see the big overall grand bargain,
investor sentiment and business decision-making will be somewhat
uncertain,” said Chad Morganlander, a  Florham Park , New Jersey-
based  fund manager  at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., which oversees
about $130 billion of assets. “It just means that there’s going
to be a lackluster demand for commodities with very little
reacceleration of economic activity.”  Debt Crisis  Germany , Europe’s largest economy, probably will face a
recession as the sovereign-debt crisis roiling its neighbors
extends into 2013, according to the Bloomberg Global Poll. About
18 percent of global copper demand comes from Europe, and the
region consumes 22 percent of the world’s oil, according to
estimates from Barclays and  BP Plc. (BP/)  The 17-nation  euro zone  fell
back into recession in the third quarter.  Money managers withdrew $42 million from non-precious-metal
commodity funds in the week ended Nov. 28, according to  Cameron Brandt , the director of research for Cambridge, Massachusetts-
based EPFR Global, which tracks money flows. Gold and precious-
metal funds had a net inflow of $530 million. Investors raised
bets on a gold rally by 13 percent to the highest since Oct. 16,
CFTC data show. Silver holdings climbed 12 percent.  Holdings in exchange-traded products backed by gold rose to
a record for an 11th day Nov. 30. U.S. Mint sales of American
Eagle gold coins more than doubled in November to the highest
since July 2010. The metal has advanced 9.6 percent this year,
headed for a 12th annual gain.  Farm Goods  A  measure  of net-longs for 11 U.S. farm goods rose 9.1
percent, the biggest gain since Oct. 23, CFTC data show. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight farm products
jumped 0.8 percent last week, the second consecutive increase.  Bullish bets on cattle more than doubled to the highest
since Sept. 18. Futures jumped to a record $1.32925 a pound on
Nov. 23 in  Chicago  trading amid shrinking supplies of beef and
rising demand. The U.S. cattle herd was the smallest since at
least 1973 as of July 1 as ranchers culled animals during the
worst drought since 1956.  Corn holdings rose 2.7 percent to the highest since Oct.
23, and wagers on a wheat rally surged 35 percent, the biggest
increase since June 26, CFTC data show. Wheat futures jumped 34
percent this year in Chicago as dry weather cut global
production to a five-year low.  “The global economy continues to expand next year,” said
 Peter Sorrentino , who helps manage about $14.6 billion of assets
at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati. “Commodities will
not have a ‘shoot the lights out’ year but it should be a
profitable year for commodities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  