-- Egypt Judges Won’t Oversee Dec. 15 Constitutional Referendum
-- B y   N a d e e m   H a m i d
-- 2012-12-02T21:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/egypt-s-judges-won-t-supervise-dec-15-constitutional-referendum.html
Egypt ’s judges won’t supervise the
Dec. 15 constitutional referendum and will boycott the vote,
Egypt’s state-run Middle East News Agency reported, citing Judge
Ahmed El Zind, the head of the nation’s judge’s association.  The announcement appears to deepen a constitutional crisis
in Egypt, which is trying to structure a government after the
collapse of former president  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime during the
Arab Spring.  Egypt’s highest court suspended its work after hundreds of
President Mohamed Mursi’s Islamist supporters protested earlier
today outside the court building against a scheduled hearing
dealing with the legitimacy of a panel that wrote the draft
constitution.  The Supreme Constitutional Court said it couldn’t operate
in such an environment and would suspend its sessions until
justices can again work without “any psychological and material
pressure.” It didn’t say when it would reconvene.  “The judges of the Supreme Constitutional Court have no
choice but to announce to the great people of Egypt that they
are unable to carry out their sacred duty in such a charged
environment, filled with hatred, desire for vengeance, and
fabricated, imaginary animosity,” the court said in the
statement.  One Egyptian high court justice said he and his colleagues
were told their safety would be at risk if they attended the
hearing today.  Murder Threats  “We have been forcefully prevented from entering, and
there were threats of murder and of burning the building,”
Justice Tahani el-Gebali, who was among those singled out in the
chants, said by phone. “We have received security information
not to go because our lives would be in danger.”  The protesters had camped overnight by the court, gathering
hours after Mursi had set Dec. 15 as the date for a national
referendum on a draft charter.  The announcement followed more than a week of mass protests
by opponents demanding dissolution of the panel, which is
dominated by Islamists. Backers of Mursi, an Islamist drawn from
the Muslim Brotherhood, countered Dec. 1, gathering tens of
thousands in support of the president and the draft.  The hearing today was meant to deal with the legitimacy of
the constitutional panel and the parliament’s upper house. An
earlier incarnation of the committee was dissolved, while the
lower house was also disbanded following court rulings.  Mursi last month announced sweeping new powers that set his
decisions above court oversight until the constitutional
referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadeem Hamid in Washington at 
 nhamid3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  