-- Egypt Protests Delay Court Hearing on Constitution Panel
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a
-- 2012-12-02T12:59:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/egypt-protests-delay-court-hearing-on-constitution-panel-1-.html
Egypt ’s highest court suspended its
work after hundreds of President Mohamed Mursi’s Islamist
supporters protested outside the building against a scheduled
hearing dealing with the legitimacy of a panel that wrote the
draft constitution.  The Supreme Constitutional Court said today it couldn’t
operate in such an environment and would suspend its sessions
until justices can again work without “any psychological and
material pressure.” It didn’t say when it would reconvene.  Mursi’s supporters camped overnight by the court in Cairo,
hours after the president set Dec. 15 as the date for a national
referendum on a draft charter. His announcement followed more
than a week of mass protests by opponents demanding the
dissolution of the panel, which is dominated by Islamists. His
backers countered yesterday, gathering tens of thousands in
support of the president and the draft.  “The judges of the Supreme  Constitutional Court  have no
choice but to announce to the great people of Egypt that they
are unable to carry out their sacred duty in such a charged
environment, filled with hatred, desire for vengeance and
fabricated, imaginary animosity,” the court said in a
statement.  Dozens of riot police vans were parked outside the court
amid a heavy security presence as chants rang out against the
judges.  Tight Security  “We have been forcefully prevented from entering, and
there were threats of murder and of burning the building,”
Justice Tahani el-Gebali, who was among those singled out in the
chants, said by phone. “We have received security information
not to go because our lives would be in danger.”  Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30 Index of stocks rose 1.8 percent
at the close in Cairo, the biggest increase in almost a week in
the first day of trading since Mursi set the date for the
referendum. Protests over the past week forced the market into a
12 percent slide, the most since March 2011.  The rallies yesterday by Islamist groups including the
Muslim Brotherhood, which fielded Mursi for the presidency, came
as secularists and youth activists demanded he rescind a Nov. 22
decree protecting the panel and the parliament’s upper house
from court challenges. Two of Egypt’s top courts suspended work
and several judges and prosecutors followed suit.  Court ‘Intimidated’  “Constitutional court intimidated and under siege by pro-
Mursi protesters,” Nobel Laureate and opposition leader  Mohamed ElBaradei  said on his Twitter account today. “Judiciary almost
entirely crippled. Where are we headed?”  With tensions running high near the court, Saad el-Katatni,
the head of the Brotherhood’s political arm, called for calm and
asked people not to impede the work of the justices, the state-
run Ahram Gate website reported.  The hearing today was meant to deal with the legitimacy of
the constitutional panel and the parliament’s upper house. An
earlier incarnation of the committee was dissolved, while the
lower house was also disbanded following court rulings.  On the main road running alongside the Nile, across from the
high court, traffic was snarled early today and tensions flared.
A tank and an armored personnel carrier were parked at the
entrance of Maadi, an upscale Cairo neighborhood near where the
court is located.  Egypt Polarized  “You Brotherhood are the reason for this,” a clean-shaven
man yelled at a bearded motorist, who snapped back: “You just
want to lead us into hell.”  About a quarter of the panel’s members, including Coptic
Church representatives, withdrew before the draft constitution
was completed, complaining that Islamists were dominating the
process and the document wouldn’t reflect Egypt’s diverse
national interests. The panel approved the draft after a 16-hour
session ending early Nov. 30.  Former Arab League chief Amr Moussa called for an emergency
meeting of the National Salvation Front, a coalition of several
opposition groups and figures including ElBaradei, to discuss
the referendum, the state-run Middle East  News Agency  reported
today.  ElBaradei’s Dostour, or Constitution, Party said in an e-
mailed statement Mursi had “ignored large segments of the
Egyptian society” that has been protesting the “farcical way
the draft had been completed.”  In a speech yesterday, Mursi defended the charter, saying
it was born out of “the January 25 revolution” against
Mubarak. He said the nation was “thirsty for stability” and
that it was time “to move from confrontation and differences
toward productive work.”  The president also tried to ease tensions, telling those
who withdrew from the panel their contribution wouldn’t be
forgotten.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  