-- Egyptian Opposition to Take Constitutional Fight to Mursi
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y ,   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2012-12-03T14:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/egypt-opposition-to-take-constitution-fight-to-mursi.html
Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi’s
opponents prepared to march on his office tomorrow and almost a
dozen publications vowed not to print, amid growing criticism of
the draft constitution he approved.  The Supreme Judicial Council said today it would help
supervise a Dec. 15 referendum on the charter, after another
prominent group of judges declined the task. The draft was
hastily approved last week in a marathon session of the
Islamist-dominated panel charged with writing it.  Egypt ’s top
court suspended work after Mursi supporters crowded outside the
building yesterday to protest a planned hearing on the
legitimacy of the assembly.  The political row has polarized Egyptians over the past
week, with pro-Mursi Islamists and political opponents staging
mass rallies in Cairo and other cities. Activist groups and
parties, including one founded by Nobel Laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, said they would march on the presidential palace in
the capital to protest a charter that “threatens the freedoms
and rights of Egyptians.”  “We are exerting all peaceful means to express our
opinion,” Mona Amer, a spokeswoman for the Popular Current, an
opposition movement, said today by phone. “This is a
constitution that has been written by a panel that doesn’t
represent all groups in the country and that lacks consensus.”  ‘Pitch Black’ Day  Justices from the Supreme Constitutional Court, which
delayed a hearing on the drafting panel, described yesterday’s
protests and alleged threats against them as a “pitch black”
day in Egypt’s judicial history.  The protests, among the biggest since last year’s uprising
against  Hosni Mubarak , were sparked by a Nov. 22 presidential
decree that gave Mursi sweeping new powers and put his decisions
and the constitutional panel above court review. While he says
the measures are temporary, protesters have charged him with
seeking dictatorial powers.  The outbreak of anger may undermine efforts to revive an
economy battered by months of unrest. Egypt’s benchmark EGX 30
Index of stocks fell 1.7 percent at 11:52 a.m. in Cairo. The
gauge lost 12 percent last week, the most since March 2011. The
country fell 65 percent short of its goal at an auction of
treasury bills yesterday as borrowing costs surged. The three-
month yield climbed to 13.03 percent, the highest in three
months.  Newspapers Protest  Eleven newspapers have decided not to publish tomorrow to
protest what they say are limitations on freedoms in the draft
constitution, according to Al Masry Al Youm, one of the papers
that won’t go to print. A photo of a person covered in
newspapers and sitting behind bars ran in several dailies today
with the words: “No to a constitutional decree that cancels
rights and shackles freedoms. No to dictatorship.”  The Islamists have criticized the courts and the media of
bias against Mursi, who was fielded by the Muslim Brotherhood
for the presidency.  “The positions of this court are politicized and are
against the regime,” Mahmoud Ghozlan, a Brotherhood spokesman,
said by phone, referring to the constitutional court. He said
that putting the constitution to a referendum was the “pinnacle
of democracy.”  State television talk-show host Hala Fahmy appeared on air
late yesterday carrying her burial shroud in protest, saying
state media has become a tool for the Islamists.  ‘Complacent’ Media  “The ruler has called for a referendum on a constitution
for slaves,” Fahmy said on air, adding that the media has
become “complacent.”  “The last thing I can do is carry my shroud,” she said.  Information Minister Salah Abdel-Maqsoud didn’t answer
calls to his mobile seeking comment.  Mursi narrowly defeated Ahmed Shafik, the last Mubarak-era
prime minister, for the presidency in June. The U.S.-trained
rocket scientist had pledged repeatedly to be a president for
all Egyptians.  “Mursi has failed to keep his pledge to reach a consensual
constitution,” Abdel-Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, a former presidential
candidate and head of the Strong Egypt party, said on his
Twitter account. “The call for a referendum reflects an
insistence to divide the nation.”  The Judges Club, a prominent grouping of several thousand
jurists, announced its members wouldn’t supervise the
referendum, Ahmed El Zind, the group’s head, was cited as saying
by the state-run Middle East News Agency. Today’s statement by
the Supreme Judicial Council to supervise the vote isn’t binding
on justices, the club said today.  Mursi’s approval rating has dropped to 57 percent from 79
percent two months earlier, the state-run Middle East News
Agency reported yesterday, citing a survey by the Egyptian
Center for Public Opinion Research on Nov. 28-29.  Presidential spokesman Yasser Ali said yesterday that
Mursi’s exceptional powers would expire in 13 days with the
approval of the constitution, and that there were “no fears”
of him abusing them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at   mfam@bloomberg.net ;
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@gloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  