-- Merkel Signals Debt Write-Off Possible as Buyback Begins
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-12-03T08:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/merkel-softens-on-write-off-as-greece-prepares-buyback.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  opened the
possibility that  Germany  may ultimately accept a write-off of
Greek debt, as policy makers this week attempt to engineer a
buyback that’s crucial for Greece to receive more funding.  With Greece announcing bids today to repurchase
bonds issued earlier this year, Merkel told Bild newspaper
yesterday that euro leaders might consider writing off debt once
the country has a  budget surplus . Germany has until now ruled
out such a scenario as violating European Union treaties.  “If Greece one day can rely once again on its own revenue,
without having to borrow, then we’ll have to look at this
situation and make an evaluation,” Merkel told  Bild am Sonntag 
in an interview when asked about the prospect of debt
forgiveness. It wouldn’t happen before 2014 or 2015, “if
everything goes according to plan,” the chancellor said.  The shift on Greece’s mounting indebtedness, which
triggered  Europe ’s debt crisis three years ago, signals a
growing consensus that a Greek exit could doom the 17-member
single currency. German lawmakers approved the latest package to
alleviate Greece’s burden after Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said a default could foreshadow the euro’s collapse.  Merkel’s signal of openness to eventual debt forgiveness
marks “the end of denial,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist for
ING Groep in Brussels who, said in a phone interview. “It’s
definitely a shift, but on the other hand, it’s obvious,” said
Brzeski, who called an eventual debt writedown inevitable.  Extra Time  Last week’s agreement by European finance ministers to give
Greece more time to meet its debt targets helped ease concerns
over the crisis. Spanish 10-year bonds posted a third monthly
gain, with  yields sliding  last week to 5.3 percent from 5.6
percent. The euro rose almost 2 percent in two weeks.  EU finance ministers will meet again in Brussels today as
 Greece  starts the repurchase operation. The Public Debt
Management Agency in  Athens  announced an offer to spend as much
as 10 billion euros ($13 billion) to buy back bonds, swapping
them for six-month bills issued by the euro area rescue fund.  Greek debt rallied after the buyback specifics were
published. Ten-year yields fell 41 basis points to 15.7 percent,
the lowest in more than 15 months.  The transaction lies at the center of new measures aimed at
helping scale back Greece’s debt load to a level policy makers
consider sustainable: 124 percent of gross domestic product by
2020, down from a projected 144 percent if policy makers hadn’t
acted.  The complex repurchase measure accounts for 11 percentage
points, or more than half, of that drop, according to a letter
Schaeuble wrote to German lawmakers Nov. 28. Should it fail,
Greece’s creditors will have to go back to the negotiating table
and try something else, Schaeuble said last week.  New Bonds  What constitutes sustainable debt has spawned tension
between the EU and the  International Monetary Fund . IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde , who has taken a harder line on the
2020 target, said the fund’s contribution to the next aid
tranche will hinge on the success of the buyback.  The repurchase will target about 62 billion euros of new
bonds issued as part of a swap of privately held debt earlier
this year, the biggest debt restructuring in history, according
to a draft troika report. Greek banks hold some 15 billion euros
of those bonds, while the country’s pension funds hold 8 billion
euros.  The success of the measure, considered risky because of
bondholders’ reluctance to part with securities they might be
able to hold to maturity, could rest with cajoling Greek banks
to participate, ING’s Brzeski said. Greek Finance Minister
Yannis Stournaras has called the repurchase voluntary.  ‘Peer Pressure’  “It can only work if there is some kind of peer pressure
on the Greek banks,” Brzeski said, estimating that that alone
could take 20 billion euros in Greek debt off the market.  The amount to be raised has been left open, giving an
element of leeway for euro policy makers and freeing them to
fill in the blanks after the buyback ends. European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters in  New York  on Nov. 30 that he was refraining from
giving an “explicit target figure” for the repurchase.  While Greece has gotten pledges for 240 billion euros of
aid, the funds have been frozen since June as the government
tries to get its bailout program back on track after it was
disrupted by two elections and a deepening recession.  The efforts to wrest Greece from collapse is part of a move
toward moderation among leaders in northern Europe who earlier
led a drive of austerity measures and often flirted with the
prospect of expelling the country. Merkel’s visit to Athens in
October ushered in a period of detente.  “The idea that Greece would have to leave the euro against
its will would still cost us much more money than the path we’ve
chosen -- and cause great harm to our economy,” Merkel told
Bild in yesterday’s interview. “We need to avoid all this
uncertainty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  