-- Lexus U.S. Chief Says Sales Will Grow Even If Taxes Rise
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-12-03T23:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/lexus-u-s-chief-says-sales-will-grow-even-if-taxes-rise.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  expects to boost
U.S. sales of its luxury  Lexus  model next year even though taxes
on the wealthy may rise as a result of a federal budget deal,
the brand’s global marketing chief said.  Lexus sales, up 23 percent in the U.S. this year through
November, may gain at least 10 percent in 2013,  Mark Templin ,
who is also head of the brand in the region, said in an
interview last week at the Los Angeles Auto Show. Demand for
luxury autos will grow faster than the industrywide pace, even
with a change in tax rates, he said.  “I think that we and everyone else project that we’re
still going to see good consistent growth in the industry,”
Templin said. “Our wealthy clients have remained that way and
they’ve been shown to be pretty resilient.”  Discussions between President Barack Obama and House
Speaker  John Boehner  on averting the $607 billion in automatic
tax increases and spending cuts due to take effect in January
have deadlocked over tax rates for the top 2 percent of wage
earners in the country. For Toyota, the U.S. is the biggest
market for Lexus models, which sell for more than $40,000 on
average, accounting for at least half the brand’s global volume.  Sales of new cars and light trucks have been a bright spot
for the economy this year, growing 14 percent through November.
U.S. industrywide deliveries rose 15 percent last month,
according to researcher Autodata Corp., topping a 12 percent
increase that was the average of 10 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Best Pace  The annualized sales rate, adjusted for seasonal trends,
accelerated to 15.5 million, the best pace since January 2008,
according to Autodata.  Combined sales for Lexus,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz,
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW, Honda Motor Co.’s Acura,
 General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Cadillac,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s  Audi (NSU)  and Nissan
Motor Co.’s Infiniti, the seven largest luxury brands, rose 15
percent through November, based on company statements.  “We all project that luxury will grow faster than the rest
of the market,” Templin said. “It didn’t happen in the first
half of the year, but it’s starting to show again, and the
projections for the future still show that’s the case.”  U.S. sales units for both Toyota and Lexus are based in
Torrance, California.  ‘Prolonged Negotiations’  On Nov. 30, Obama said there will be “prolonged
negotiations” as the White House and Congress try to reach a
budget deal. Obama has proposed a framework that would raise
taxes immediately on top earners and set an Aug. 1 deadline for
rewriting the  tax code  and deciding on spending cuts, according
to administration officials.  Auto demand would plunge as much as 20 percent if
Washington can’t find a solution to avoid the fiscal cliff
coming at the end of the year, Lacey Plache, chief economist of
auto researcher Edmunds.com, said last week.  Ford Motor Co. said last week it’s making contingency plans
should a deal not be reached whereas domestic rivals Chrysler
Group LLC and General Motors Co. aren’t making such
preparations.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts fell 0.5 percent to
$85.66 at the close in New York. They’ve risen 30 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  