-- Fed Presidents Differ Over Need for More Accommodation
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-12-02T00:48:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/fed-presidents-differ-over-need-for-more-accommodation.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents signaled support for more easing while another
official warned that withdrawing the current record stimulus may
be difficult, highlighting differences among policy makers less
than two weeks before they plan to meet.  “Monetary policy if anything is too tight,” Minneapolis
Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota said at a panel discussion
today in  Chicago . It may be “very difficult for us to reverse
course” and “we also have to worry about the future and the
consequences of our policies further down the road,”
Philadelphia’s Charles Plosser said at the same University of
Chicago event.  Fed policy makers are considering whether to expand the
central bank’s third round of asset purchases, a move some
officials have said would help offset the expiration of the
central bank’s Operation Twist program that’s set to expire this
month. The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee has
injected an unprecedented amount of stimulus into the economy as
it seeks to bolster growth and lower unemployment.  “More accommodation would help lead to better economic
outcomes,” Chicago Fed President Charles Evans said during the
panel.  Fed officials are also debating whether to link the
increase of the main interest rate to an economic measure such
as  unemployment  rather than commit to hold borrowing costs near
zero for a set period of time. Evans and Kocherlakota have
endorsed such a change, as have Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and
Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren .  Sow Confusion  Plosser said today he is worried such an approach would
“sow more confusion in fact than clarity.” Also, monetary
policy may not have the power to achieve a certain target for
unemployment, he said.  Evans on the other hand said  Japan ’s struggle with more
than a decade of deflation is of “great concern” to him.  “One of the things I worry about is the possibility that
the U.S. turns into a Japanese experience where we have
extremely weak modest growth over a long period of time,” he
said.  The FOMC is scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12 in the final
gathering before the expiration of the program to extend the
average maturity of its bond holdings known as Operation Twist.
A “number” of officials said at the October meeting that the
Fed next year may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds,
according to the minutes.  Recent data point to signs that mortgage rates, driven to
all-time lows by the Fed’s bond purchases, are boosting the
housing market and the broader economy.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities rose
3 percent in September from a year earlier, the biggest year-to-
year gain since July 2010. Housing starts rose in October to a
894,000 annual rate, the fastest since July 2008.  Regional Fed presidents vote on monetary policy on a
rotating basis, and neither Evans, Kocherlakota nor Plosser is a
voting member on the FOMC this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  