-- Fed Presidents Back More Stimuls as End to Twist Looms
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-12-02T17:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/fed-presidents-back-more-stimuls-as-end-to-twist-looms.html
Two Federal Reserve regional bank
presidents backed additional accommodation to bring down 7.9
percent unemployment with the planned expiration later this
month of an easing program known as Operation Twist.  “Monetary policy if anything is too tight,” Minneapolis
Fed President Narayana Kocherlakota said at a panel discussion
yesterday in  Chicago . “More accommodation would help lead to
better economic outcomes,” Chicago Fed President Charles Evans
said during the panel at the University of Chicago.  Policy makers are considering whether to expand the Fed’s
third round of asset purchases, a move some officials have said
would help offset the end of Operation Twist, in which the Fed
each month swaps $45 billion of short-term Treasuries for
longer-term debt. The Federal Open Market Committee has injected
an unprecedented amount of stimulus into the economy as it seeks
to bolster growth and lower unemployment.  Philadelphia Fed President Charles Plosser, also speaking
on the panel, warned of the risks from stepping up stimulus.  It may be “very difficult for us to reverse course” and
“we also have to worry about the future and the consequences of
our policies further down the road,” he said.  Regional Fed presidents vote on monetary policy on a
rotating basis, and neither Evans, Kocherlakota nor Plosser is a
voting member on the FOMC this year.  Monthly Purchases  San Francisco Fed President John Williams said in November
the central bank will probably buy about $85 billion in bonds
each month starting in early 2013 and continue purchasing
securities well into the second half of the year. He is a voting
member of the FOMC this year.  Fed officials are also debating whether to link the
increase of the main interest rate to an economic measure such
as  unemployment  rather than commit to hold borrowing costs near
zero for a set period of time. Evans and Kocherlakota have
endorsed such a change, as have Vice Chairman Janet Yellen and
Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren .  Plosser said yesterday he is worried such an approach would
“sow more confusion in fact than clarity.”  Also, “it’s not clear at all to me that policy has the
capability to achieve these targets” for measures such as
unemployment, he said.  Evans on the other hand said  Japan ’s struggle with more
than a decade of deflation is of “great concern” to him.  “One of the things I worry about is the possibility that
the U.S. turns into a Japanese experience where we have
extremely weak modest growth over a long period of time,” he
said.  Next Year  The FOMC is scheduled to meet Dec. 11-12 in the final
gathering before the expiration of Operation Twist. A “number”
of officials said at the October meeting that the Fed next year
may need to expand its monthly purchases of bonds, according to
the minutes.  Recent data point to signs that mortgage rates, driven to
all-time lows by the Fed’s bond purchases, are boosting the
housing market and the broader economy.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of home prices in 20 cities rose
3 percent in September from a year earlier, the biggest year-to-
year gain since July 2010. Housing starts rose in October to a
894,000 annual rate, the fastest since July 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  