-- Fiscal Cliff Negotiations With Obama Are ‘Nowhere,’ Boehner Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-12-02T15:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/fiscal-cliff-negotiations-with-obama-are-nowhere-boehner-says.html
There’s “clearly a chance” that
Republicans and the White House won’t come to agreement over the
nation’s budget in time to avert the so-called fiscal cliff,
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner  said.  “I would say we’re nowhere, period,” Boehner said on a
taped segment of the “Fox News Sunday” program that aired
today. “We’ve put a serious offer on the table by putting
revenues up there to try to get this question resolved. But the
White House has responded with virtually nothing.”  After a week of jockeying for advantage in the fiscal
talks, Republican Boehner and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  appeared separately on the Fox show today and blamed
each other for the standoff.  Whether the impasse ends is “a decision that lies in the
hands of the Republicans that are now opposing increases in tax
rates,” Geithner said.  The deadlock over whether to continue Bush-era  tax rates 
for the top 2 percent of wage earners extends a struggle that
has been waged for more than a year between Democrat Obama and
Republicans in Congress. The issue has gained more urgency as
the clock ticks down on more than $600 billion in tax increases
and spending cuts scheduled to start taking effect in January.  Obama’s Framework  Obama has proposed a framework that would raise taxes
immediately on top earners and set an Aug. 1 deadline for
rewriting the  tax code  and deciding on spending cuts, according
to administration officials.  It calls for $1.6 trillion in tax increases, $350 billion
in cuts in health programs, $250 billion in cuts in other
programs and $800 billion in assumed savings from the wind-down
of the wars in Iraq and  Afghanistan .  Obama’s proposal included more new spending than cuts, said
Boehner, of  Ohio .  “They wanted to extend  unemployment benefits ,” he said.
“They wanted a new stimulus program for infrastructure. They
wanted to extend some other tax breaks. And all of this new
stimulus spending would literally be more than the spending cuts
that he was willing to put on the table.”  Considering Caps  Republicans may be willing to consider caps to income-tax
deductions for the wealthy, among other solutions, Boehner said.  “You could cap deductions at a percent of income,” he
said. “That would be one way to get there. You could eliminate
certain deductions for the wealthiest in our country. You could
do all of that.”  Among the proposals Obama floated last week was one giving
the president the power to raise the nation’s debt limit.
Currently, Congress must approve any increase.  Boehner dismissed that idea as “silliness.”  “Congress is never going to give up this power,” Boehner
said.  Boehner also said that the political standoff is having a
negative impact.  “Just the threat of the fiscal cliff is already hurting
the economy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  