-- Formula One Ruling Body Said to Negotiate Extra Series Revenue
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-12-02T23:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/formula-one-ruling-body-said-to-negotiate-extra-series-revenue.html
Formula One’s not-for-profit ruling
body Federation Internationale de l’Automobile is close to
completing an agreement to get more revenue from the auto-racing
series, according to two people familiar with the situation.  The FIA will increase its annual income to about $40
million, an increase of at least 40 percent, under pacts with
series co-owner CVC Capital Partners Ltd. and teams including
champion  Red Bull , one of the people said. They spoke on
condition of anonymity because the discussions are private. The
ruling body said Oct. 23 the contract governing the sport would
be signed in the coming weeks.  The FIA, which is based in rented offices in downtown
Paris, is taking advantage of Formula One’s financial health as
stakeholders draw up a new contract, according to  Simon Chadwick , a professor of sports marketing strategy at the U.K.’s
Coventry University. The current accord expires Dec. 31.  “They’re harvesting: they’re trying to make as much money
as possible while it’s there,” Chadwick said.  The FIA was founded in 1904 and also represents motoring
organizations and promotes road safety. In Formula One, it
oversees the technical specifications of racing cars and
handles medical support and media accreditation. Under the
agreement, the FIA would get about $25 million from the series
owners and more than $15 million from teams in entry fees, one
of the people said.  Increased Payments  Red Bull will pay the FIA $3.3 million for 2013 -- more
than ten times as much as this year -- under the teams’
agreement that’s based on championship points, while Ferrari
faces a $2.5 million bill, Autosport.com reported Nov. 30.  FIA board member Nick Craw and spokesman Norman Howell
declined to comment on the financial situation of the
organization. CVC’s outside public relations firm and series
Chief Executive Officer  Bernie Ecclestone  didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment.  CVC, which had already reached commercial accords with most
of the 12 racing teams, said May 22 it sold 21 percent of
Formula One to BlackRock Inc., Waddell & Reed Financial Inc. and
Norges Bank Investment Management for $1.6 billion. It suspended
a planned initial public offering of the series in June because
of market conditions.  The London-based private equity group has reaped more than
$4 billion on its original investment of $1 billion and expects
to make as much as $7 billion, CVC partner Donald Mackenzie said
in an Oct. 29 interview.  The FIA leased the commercial rights to Formula One for a
century to a group led by Ecclestone for $314 million in 2000,
according to then-president  Max Mosley . The money, and $55
million from a fine imposed on the McLaren team in 2007 for
spying on competitors, was put into the FIA Foundation, a
London-based road-safety charity, Mosley said by phone last
week.  Revenue?  Current FIA president Jean Todt told the Financial Times on
Oct. 31 that the FIA “cannot be a federation without having any
revenue. So where do we find our revenues?”  Mosley, who retired in 2009, said the organization “always
balanced the books” and had about 30 million euros ($39
million) in cash in the bank during his tenure. The organization
recently refurbished its offices and, according to its website,
is paying for more than 230 officials to attend a five-day
annual general assembly that starts today in a  five-star hotel 
in Istanbul.  The FIA Foundation had 308 million euros of investment
assets on Dec. 31 last year, according to its latest financial
statement filed at  Companies House  in  London .  “The FIA isn’t in financial difficulty,” Mosley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  