-- French Socialists Defend Mittal ‘Arm Twist’ With Nationalization
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-12-02T23:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/french-socialists-defend-mittal-arm-twist-with-nationalization.html
French Socialists defended Industry
Minister  Arnaud Montebourg ’s threat to nationalize an
ArcelorMittal steel plant, saying the tactic spurred the company
to maintain jobs and invest.  “Without the action of Montebourg, the issue wouldn’t have
attained such a high profile,” Claude Bartolone, the Socialist
president of the National Assembly, said late yesterday on France
Inter radio. Montebourg helped “twist Mittal’s arm.”
Environment Minister Delphine Batho on  Europe  1 radio said
Montebourg played a “decisive” role in preserving jobs and
showed that the government will hold Mittal to his promises.  President  Francois Hollande ’s government reached a
compromise with  Lakshmi Mittal , chief executive officer of
ArcelorMittal, the world’s largest steelmaker. While the
government backed off from the nationalization call, the
steelmaker agreed to keep 600 jobs even as it shuts down
furnaces at its Florange plant in northeast  France  and will
invest 180 million euros ($234 million) over five years at the
site’s other processing facilities.  The agreement put economic and legal considerations over
political commitments, drawing criticism from unions who wanted
the steel furnaces themselves preserved. Montebourg, who a week
ago declared that Mittal is no longer wanted in France, said he
won’t resign in light of the compromise.  “If it was a personal question, I must tell you I would
have seriously considered it,” Montebourg said on TF1
television. “But this is a fight for France and for rebuilding
our industry.”  ‘Without Conditions’  Hollande met with Mittal three days ago to discuss the site
in northeastern France. The complex includes two blast furnaces,
which Mittal wants to close, as well as a rolling mill producing
steel, notably for the car industry, which he wants to keep.
Across France,  ArcelorMittal (MT)   employs  about 20,000 people.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said low steel demand in
Europe ruled out the immediate re-opening of the two blast
furnaces. ArcelorMittal agreed to keep them mothballed for a
 carbon capture  plan being worked on by the European Union, the
prime minister said.  “The government has demonstrated that the capacity of the
state to produce solutions that are positive for employment,
investment and industrial projects,” Ayrault said in a
statement. “The commitments of ArcelorMittal are without
conditions. The government will see to it that they are
respected scrupulously.”  Wrong Signal?  The government’s decision shows the balancing act Hollande
is trying to accomplish, appeasing his union supporters while
not scaring off foreign investors at a time when jobless claims
are at a 14-year high and Europe’s second-largest economy is
barely growing. He may have done neither.  “What kind of signals are you sending to companies, French
and foreign, with such nationalization calls?”  Frederic Oudea ,
CEO of  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  said late yesterday on RTL radio.
“It’s an atomic weapon. You are telling a company that if in
two or three years you face problems, this is the fate that
awaits you. What would a foreign company think about France’s
welcome, of France as a place for their investment?”  Some  union  leaders said they weren’t satisfied with
Ayrault’s announcement.  “It’s not what we expected from a Socialist government,”
Frederic Maris, a representative of the CGT union, said in a
live interview on BFM television. “We were expecting a new
buyer or nationalization. We don’t want to see ArcelorMittal any
more. It’s a huge disappointment.”  ‘Scandalous’ Call  The government’s earlier pronouncements about
nationalization and ArcelorMittal not being welcome had a
disastrous impact on France’s image, said  Laurence Parisot , the
head of the French employers’ association, Medef. She
characterized the nationalization call as “scandalous.”  “I was in  Hong Kong  this week and can tell you investors
don’t understand France anymore,” she  told RTL radio .
“Planning to nationalize, starting a debate on it, is
scandalous. One should remember that nationalization is
expropriation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  