-- Icahn Sees Second-Time Charm on Greenbrier Dip: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-12-03T22:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/icahn-sees-second-time-charm-on-greenbrier-dip-real-m-a.html
For  Carl Icahn ’s pursuit of
 Greenbrier Cos. (GBX) , the second time could be the charm after the
railcar maker fell to its lowest valuation in six years.  Icahn disclosed a 9.99 percent stake in Greenbrier last
month and sought to discuss options with management four years
after dropping an attempt to link up the company with American
Railcar Industries Inc. The activist investor resurfaced after a
more than 40 percent drop in the shares left  Lake Oswego ,
Oregon-based Greenbrier at its cheapest price relative to
earnings since 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The undervalued stock is luring Icahn back to Greenbrier at
the same time that railcar demand picks up from customers such
as energy companies, according to Stephens Inc. A combination of
Greenbrier and  American Railcar (ARII) , in which Icahn has a
 controlling stake , would overtake Trinity Industries Inc. as the
industry leader with more than a third of the market and allow
the merged company to cut overhead expenses, said Susquehanna
International Group LLP.  Icahn “does have a better case now than in 2008,” given
the stock drop, Patrick Nolan, a Stuart, Florida-based analyst
at Penn Capital Management Co., said in a telephone interview. A
merger “would be good for the industry on a pricing level, and
then it would also be good for the two companies because you put
a better management team with American Rail at the helm of
Greenbrier and run it more efficiently.”  Penn Capital oversees about $7.3 billion, including
Greenbrier and American Railcar shares.  ‘Strategic Opportunities’  Mark Rittenbaum, Greenbrier’s chief financial officer,
didn’t return a phone message or e-mail seeking comment on
whether his company would be open to a sale or has held talks
with Icahn or American Railcar about a potential deal.  Susan Gordon , a spokeswoman for Icahn, said he was
traveling and unavailable to comment. Dale Davies, CFO of
American Railcar, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment on
the prospects of a deal with Greenbrier.  Greenbrier, with a market capitalization of $519 million
and sales of $1.8 billion in the fiscal year ended in August,
makes railcars and equipment as well as freight barges. The
 company  also provides leasing and other services, such as
repairs and maintenance.  On Nov. 13, Icahn disclosed in a regulatory filing that he
took a 9.99 percent stake in Greenbrier, saying the shares are
“undervalued,” and that he sought discussions with management
“possibly relating to strategic opportunities.”  Second Time  Greenbrier said Icahn contacted Chief Executive Officer
Bill Furman about the investment, without suggesting any
specific proposals or timetable for future talks. The company
said it “remains committed to enhancing  shareholder value  and
to maintaining an open dialogue with its shareholders.”  The billionaire investor took a similar stake in Greenbrier
in February 2008, suggesting then that the company and American
Railcar, in which he held a majority stake, hold merger talks.
The discussions broke off in June that year due to “certain
unresolved issues,” Icahn said at the time, and he later cut
his stake in the company.  Icahn built up his latest position in Greenbrier as the
stock slumped after the company reported fourth-quarter earnings
that missed its own expectations and new railcar deliveries were
forecast to fall in fiscal 2013.  On Nov. 5, Greenbrier shares fell to $13.40, giving the
company an enterprise  value  that was 5.39 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the previous
12 months. That was the cheapest since August 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Recovery Bet  Even after surging on news of Icahn’s investment, the
shares ended last week at $19.11, still 21 percent lower than at
the start of the year.  Today, Greenbrier shares fell 1.5 percent to $18.82.  Greenbrier’s undervalued shares have reignited an
opportunity for Icahn to pursue a merger of Greenbrier and
American Railcar, said Brad Delco, a Stephens analyst based in
 Little Rock ,  Arkansas . While the railcar makers couldn’t expand
output fast enough in the past year to keep up with demand to
haul sand used by oil and gas producers to extract fuel from
shale rock, the manufacturers are still in the beginning stages
of a recovery, he said.  “It probably was a good decision on his part not to double
down on a cyclical business in 2008, right before the
downturn,” Delco said in a phone interview. “We haven’t
necessarily seen a robust recovery at this point, so by
combining the businesses now, you have the potential that there
are still some good years ahead that a combined business could
operate in.”  ‘More Competitive’  A tie-up would also help diversify the companies, which
don’t have a lot of overlap, he said.  American Railcar , with a market value of $656 million,
focuses on tank cars, which transport everything from vegetable
oil to crude and chemicals, and hoppers for handling bulk items
such as sand and grain. Greenbrier makes intermodal railcars,
which move containers often carrying  consumer goods  that can
travel by a combination of train, truck and ship. It also builds
partition cars for hauling lumber as well as tank cars.  Together, Greenbrier and American Railcar would have a 36
percent share of the railcar market, vaulting past the current
leader, Trinity Industries at 31 percent, said Bascome Majors, a
New York-based analyst for Susquehanna. The business could also
cut overhead costs by letting go of some of the management team,
Majors said.  “If you combine the companies, fundamentally you create a
larger entity that’s more competitive across the entire product
spectrum,” he said in a phone interview. “This would create a
competitor of similar scale to  Trinity. (TRN)  The low-hanging fruit is
synergies at the management headquarters level.”  Antitrust Concerns  The challenge to a deal would be obtaining regulatory
clearance because competitive concerns could cause regulators to
scrutinize the combination, Majors said.  “On paper it makes sense, but it’s difficult to determine
how antitrust might respond,” he said.  Still, railroad rivals have combined in the past without
running into regulatory roadblocks. Trinity Industries, which
has a market value of $2.5 billion, acquired closely held Thrall
Car Manufacturing Co. in 2001, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Trinity secured early termination for the Hart-Scott-
Rodino Act waiting period less than two months after agreeing to
buy Thrall for at least $364.1 million in cash and stock.  Combining Greenbrier with American Railcar may be the next
logical step for an industry that’s already consolidating, said
Nolan of Penn Capital.  “There’s one more merger left between the top players, and
I think these two are the most strategic fit to make that
happen,” Nolan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  