-- Jets Win Behind McElroy While Broncos, Pats Clinch NFL Divisions
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-12-03T05:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/third-string-quarterback-mcelroy-leads-jets-to-win-over-arizona.html
Third-string quarterback  Greg McElroy 
led the  New York  Jets to a 7-6 win against the  Arizona  Cardinals
yesterday after  Mark Sanchez  was benched, while the Denver
Broncos and  New England Patriots  both won to clinch National
Football League division titles.  The Kansas City Chiefs, playing a day after police said
linebacker Jovan Belcher shot his girlfriend to death and then
killed himself at Arrowhead Stadium, won 27-21 at home against
the Carolina Panthers (3-9) for their second win of the season.  McElroy made his NFL debut midway through the third quarter
with the Jets trailing 3-0, taking over after Sanchez threw
three interceptions. With backup quarterback  Tim Tebow  sitting
out because of cracked ribs, McElroy guided the team to the go-
ahead touchdown on his first drive, a 69-yard march that was
capped by a 1-yard scoring pass to Jeff Cumberland.  “I just felt that at that time I needed to make a
change,” Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said at his postgame news
conference. “I’ll always do what’s in the best interest of our
team to find ways to win.”  Ryan said he hasn’t decided which quarterback will start
for the Jets in Week 14 at the 2-10 Jacksonville Jaguars. With a
5-7 record, the Jets would probably have to win their final four
games to have any chance of making the playoffs.  “I didn’t expect it, but that doesn’t matter,” said
Sanchez, who now has 13 interceptions and 12 touchdown passes
this season. “It’s the coach’s call. He wants to win the game,
so he’s going to do his best to do that.”  Patriots Clinch  The  New York Giants  (7-4) visit the  Washington Redskins 
(5-6) tonight to conclude the Week 13 schedule.  New England (9-3) clinched the American Football
Conference’s East crown yesterday with a 23-16 victory at the
Miami Dolphins, making  Tom Brady  the first starting quarterback
in NFL history to win 10 division titles. Denver (9-3) wrapped
up the AFC West title as  Peyton Manning  threw three touchdown
passes in a 31-23 win against the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Manning
has won nine division titles, tied with Pro Football Hall of
Famer Joe Montana for the second most.  The  Atlanta Falcons  clinched the National Football
Conference’s South division title with the loss by the
Buccaneers (6-6). The Falcons improved to 11-1 with a 23-13
victory against the New Orleans Saints on Nov. 29.  Houston (11-1) earned a playoff berth for the second
straight season by forcing six turnovers in a 24-10 win at the
Tennessee Titans. The Texans are three games ahead of the Colts
(8-4), who beat the Detroit Lions 35-33 as rookie quarterback
 Andrew Luck  threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to Donnie Avery on
the game’s final play. The Colts scored two touchdowns in the
final 2:47 to erase a 33-21 deficit in Detroit.  Steelers’ Win  The Pittsburgh Steelers (7-5) sent Baltimore (9-3) to its
first home loss of the season, winning 23-20 on Shaun Suisham’s
42-yard field goal as time expired to end the Ravens’ four-game
winning streak. The Cincinnati Bengals are also 7-5 after
beating the San Diego Chargers 20-13.  Seattle beat the Chicago Bears 23-17 in overtime on Russell Wilson’s 13-yard touchdown pass to Sidney Rice, the Seahawks’
second win in seven road games this season. The  Dallas Cowboys 
sent Philadelphia to an eighth straight loss last night,
outscoring the Eagles 38-33 as  Tony Romo  threw for 303 yards and
three touchdowns.  Rams’ Upset  The St. Louis Rams upset the  San Francisco 49ers  16-13 on
Greg Zuerlein’s 54-yard field goal with 30 seconds left in
overtime. In other Week 13 games, the Buffalo Bills defeated the
Jaguars 34-18, the  Green Bay Packers  topped the Minnesota
Vikings 23-14 and the Cleveland Browns beat the Oakland Raiders
20-17.  In East Rutherford, New Jersey, the Jets had managed 159
yards of offense on their first 45 plays when Ryan opted to
bench Sanchez in favor of McElroy, a seventh-round draft pick in
2011.  McElroy’s arrival was met by cheers from the crowd at
MetLife Stadium and his first drive was capped by the touchdown
pass to a wide-open Cumberland.  “I was excited to get a shot and go in there,” McElroy
said at a news conference. “Fortunately my teammates did a
fantastic job of executing.”  McElroy went 5-for-7 passing for 29 yards, while Sanchez
was 10-of-21 for 97 yards and now has 18 turnovers this season.
McElroy said Sanchez gave him a hug and words of encouragement
before he entered the game.  ‘Big Win’  “It obviously wasn’t my day,” Sanchez said. “It’s
unfortunate, but I’m really happy for the team and I’m happy for
Greg because he came in and played his butt off and got us a big
win. He played smart and took care of the football.”  Jets running backs  Shonn Greene  and Bilal Powell combined
to rush for 162 yards on 36 carries.  The Jets’ defense limited the Cardinals to two field goals
by Jay Feely, with Arizona quarterback Ryan Lindley completing
10 of 31 passes for 72 yards and an interception. The Cardinals
failed to get a first down on any of their 15 third-down plays
in losing their eighth straight game.  Ryan said he’ll evaluate the Jets’ quarterback situation
during the week before deciding on a starter.  “I’ll go prepare and be ready to play,” Sanchez said.
“Whatever Rex decides, we’ll go with that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  