-- Japan Aims to Push China, U.S. on Pollution Without Kyoto
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2012-12-02T14:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/japan-aims-to-push-china-u-s-on-pollution-without-kyoto.html
Japan ’s rejection of an international
treaty on reducing pollution after 2012 is a tactic to put
pressure on  China  and the U.S. to sign up to a new climate pact,
the country’s environment ambassador said.  Japan wants to encourage the world’s two biggest emitters
to take part in a global climate-protection system that would be
agreed to before 2015 and to include both developing and
industrialized nations, according to Masahiko Horie, who is
ambassador for global environment. The nation will pursue
voluntary policies rather than binding targets under the  Kyoto
Protocol  beginning in 2013, he said.  “We’ll continue our efforts even though we don’t join the
second commitment period,” Horie said in an interview in Doha,
where United Nations climate talks are entering their second
week. “The only reason for that is try to give a push for the
single international framework.”  Envoys from more than 190 countries are negotiating a
future climate-protection framework at the conference after the
world’s emissions surged to a record last year. The number of
developed countries with binding pollution targets under the
 Kyoto treaty  will shrink to about 30. Japan, Russia, Canada and
 New Zealand  said they are not planning to adopt new goals after
the first period expires this year.  The U.S. never ratified the treaty, which doesn’t set
enforceable goals for developing nations.  Kyoto covers less than a quarter of emissions while nations
not bound by the treaty include China, the U.S. and developing
nations that are responsible for a third of  greenhouse gases ,
Horie said.  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, emits 3.8 percent
of global emissions. It has exceeded its target to cut emissions
6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Doha at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net 
Alessandro Vitelli in Doha at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  