-- Kao Seeks to Double Vietnam Business as It Boosts Overseas Sales
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-12-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/kao-seeks-to-double-vietnam-business-as-it-boosts-overseas-sales.html
Kao Corp. (4452) , the largest maker of bath
and shower products in Japan, is seeking to at least double the
size of its Vietnamese business to ramp up overseas growth amid
a shrinking population at home.  “I want to double and triple the business in Vietnam,”
President Michitaka Sawada said in an interview on Nov. 28. The
company may build a new factory in  Southeast Asia (CMT)  to strengthen
the Vietnamese operations, he said, without specifying a
timeframe or investment amount.  Kao, the owner of Molton Brown cosmetics, is ramping up its
Vietnamese business as it plans to get much as 50 percent of its
sales from overseas by 2020 compared with the current 27
percent. As the Japanese company pushes into the Southeast Asian
nation, it will take on global competitors such as  Unilever NV (UNA) 
that already have a bigger share of the local market for bath
and shower brands.  “ Vietnam  has a big population and many young people,”
Sawada said. “There is increasing room for growth in terms of
our products, like cosmetics, diapers and sanitary products.”  The market size for color cosmetics in Vietnam rose 22
percent to $37.7 million in 2011 and for hygiene products it
climbed 19 percent to $242.1 million, according to researcher
Euromonitor International. The size for bath and shower products
gained 8.6 percent to $82.3 million.  Kao will invest about 10 billion yen ($121 million) to
build its second factory in  Indonesia  to make detergent and
sanitary products, it said in July. The company has also
invested about 6 billion yen in a new plant in Anhui,  China , to
make baby diapers.  Next Focus  Vietnam is one of Kao’s next areas of focus after the main
targets of China, Indonesia, and  Thailand , the company said.
Rival Shiseido Co. already gets about 44 percent of sales from
overseas while  Unicharm Corp. (8113)  has about 52 percent, according to
statements from the companies.  Kao entered Vietnam in 1996 when it first built a factory
there, making products such as “Laurier” sanitary pads and
“Biore” body soap. The Japanese consumer company had sales of
139 billion yen from Asia for the year ended March, or about 11
percent of total sales. Kao doesn’t disclose Vietnam sales.  Kao had a 1.2 percent share in Vietnam’s hygiene products
market, while Kimberly-Clark tops the market with 37 percent,
according to Euromonitor International. For bath and shower
products, Kao had 0.7 percent share, while Unilever leads the
market with 35 percent share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  