-- Keep Satellites Aloft to Be Ready for Bad Weather Below
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-02T23:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/keep-satellites-aloft-to-be-ready-for-bad-weather-below.html
Thanks to an unbroken stream of
atmospheric and oceanic measurements beamed to Earth from well-
positioned satellites, meteorologists were able to predict
 Hurricane Sandy ’s monstrous power and strange path (tropical
storms typically turn right, not left) long before it hit the
New Jersey coast.  It’s the kind of precision we might assume can only get
better, as scientists fine-tune their instruments and forecast
models. Instead, in a few years, weather predictions in the U.S.
are in danger of becoming less accurate. Why? Because the
federal government is unprepared, at least temporarily, to
operate a full complement of satellites.  The  gap could begin  in October 2016, when a satellite put
in orbit a year ago reaches the end of its expected five-year
life. A replacement won’t be ready to launch until at least
March 2017, and then it will take another year for its
instruments to be checked out and ready to operate. That would
leave a 17-month gap, during which three-to-five-day  weather
forecasts  will be fuzzier.  To assess what such a loss of data could mean, the  National
Weather Service  recalculated its forecast from early February
2010 of “Snowmageddon,” simulating a lack of information from
polar-orbiting satellites. It came up with a prediction for a
moderate to heavy storm, not the huge blizzard that swamped much
of the East. The revised forecast underpredicted snowfall by
more than 10 inches and missed the location of heaviest snow by
250 miles.  Longer Gap  What do we do? Well, there’s nothing that can be done in
this particular case -- satellites simply take too long to plan.
But we can find ways to minimize the possibility of such gaps
emerging in the future. To see what’s needed, however, requires
understanding how weather satellites are configured.  The U.S. operates two kinds of  weather satellites : so-
called geostationary ones, which stare constantly at one part of
the country, and polar orbiters, which circle the Earth in a
north-south path every hour and a half or so, viewing the whole
planet twice over the course of a day. The geostationary
satellites tell us what the weather is like at the moment, while
the polar orbiters track systems as they travel west to east,
allowing meteorologists to build forecasts as much as one to two
weeks in advance, including blizzard and hurricane predictions.  As things stand today, U.S. forecasters use data from polar
orbiters run by the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration , the Defense Department and a European weather
satellite administration called  Eumetsat  -- a constellation that
ensures they always have data no more than six hours old. As
funding has gotten tighter in recent years, the U.S. government
has twice reconfigured the management of its satellites, first
combining the separate operations of the Defense Department and
NOAA and then splitting them apart again.  But it still hasn’t come up with a national strategy for
sustaining a robust satellite network to track Earth’s weather
and climate. Instead, NOAA has done what it can to stumble
forward, trimming the number of instruments included in its
satellite plans as needed, as well as some data-processing
capacity on the ground.  NASA ’s Earth science program operates some climate-
observing satellites, but in recent years this program has been
significantly underfunded and, because of launch problems, has
suffered the loss of two satellites --  one  meant to monitor
solar radiation and aerosols in the atmosphere and  the other ,
carbon dioxide.  Satellite Management  A  new report  from the National Research Council argues that
the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy should
establish a person or office to oversee all weather and climate
satellite operations and put together a long-range strategy to
keep in orbit a full set of steadily improving Earth-observation
satellites. We agree.  Support for such an effort could come from a National
Climate Service -- an agency that NOAA needs but  hasn’t been
able  to organize because of resistance in Congress.  One important thing this person or agency should soon
figure out is whether it could be more economical to deploy
smaller satellites more often, with each one containing only two
or three instruments, than to send up a giant one carrying as
many as eight or nine instruments every five years. More
frequent launches of smaller satellites would allow scientists
greater flexibility in planning and building instruments, and
make it easier to recover from any problems or failures to
launch. This strategy would require the development of smaller,
less expensive satellite launch vehicles.  A backup satellite or two, ready for orbit, would come in
handy right now. Better planning can make sure that, in decades
ahead, forecasters always see the next Sandy coming.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 