-- Kuwait Shiites Win Record Parliament Seats Amid Boycott
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-12-02T10:57:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/kuwaiti-shiites-win-record-seats-in-new-parliament-amid-boycott.html
Shiite Muslims won a record number of
seats in  Kuwait ’s parliament in the second elections in less
than a year as opposition groups and their supporters boycotted
the vote.  Shiites, who account for about 30 percent of the indigenous
population, more than doubled their presence by securing 17
seats in the 50-member National Assembly. Women, including
former minister Maasouma Al-Mubarak, won three seats after being
defeated at the polls in February, according to final results
given today by the National Elections Commission. Sunni
Islamists lost ground, winning four seats, as did tribal
candidates, with 16. The new house includes 21 former lawmakers.  Voter turnout in yesterday’s elections was 40.3 percent,
according to the Information Ministry, compared with about 60
percent for the previous three parliamentary ballots. The
government had stepped up calls for Kuwaitis to take part in the
vote. The opposition, a mix of Sunni Islamists, liberals and
youth groups inspired by the Arab Spring’s uprisings, said
turnout was 26.7 percent, according to their Twitter messages.  “This parliament will be very cooperative with the
government,” Ayed Al-Manna, a political analyst at Kuwait’s
Public Authority for Applied Education, said by phone.
“However, it will be opposed by the majority and it will feel
isolated from the majority of the population. There will be more
demands to dissolve this parliament.”  The new body of lawmakers will be prevented from coexisting
with the government, particularly by the country’s major tribes
and merchant families, which supported the boycott, Al-Manna
said.  ‘New Start’  “Kuwait has witnessed a success of democracy as citizens
practiced their constitutional rights to choose their
representatives for the next parliament,” Information Minister
Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah Al-Sabah said in an emailed statement.
“The election result is the foundation for a new start of
development and cooperation between the legislative and
executive powers to advance Kuwait and all its people.”  The opposition has vowed to “use all constitutional
tools” to bring down the new parliament.  The nation’s benchmark stock exchange index declined less
than 0.1 percent at the close today in  Kuwait City .  Gerrymandering Alleged  The opposition and its supporters staged one of the biggest
rallies in the Gulf nation’s history on Nov. 30, urging a
boycott of the polls amid calls for the government, appointed by
the ruling Al-Sabah family, to share more power with elected
politicians. The opposition, which swept to victory in the last
elections, has objected to changes to the voting system made by
the government in October that require voters to choose only one
candidate, instead of four previously.  The opposition said the changes to the voting rules were
gerrymandering aimed at reducing their chances of winning and
had made it easier for candidates to buy votes. The government
said they were intended to ensure stability and boost democracy.  About 422,500 Kuwaitis, more than 53 percent of them women,
were eligible to vote yesterday. Native Kuwaitis make up a third
of the 3.8 million people in the country, OPEC’s third-biggest
producer, with the rest mostly foreign workers.  Steps toward democracy in Kuwait have led to repeated
clashes between lawmakers and governments chosen by the Al-Sabah
family, straining an economy that trails its Gulf peers as
projects to diversify from oil have become mired in political
disputes. Protests have swelled in the last year as opposition
groups demand wider powers for elected officials.  Development Plan  Kuwait’s parliament in 2010 approved a $110 billion
development plan, aimed at modernizing and restructuring the
economy, which relies on oil for more than 90 percent of its
revenue. The investment program includes a subway and rail
network, new power stations, hospitals, roads and a port on
Boubyan Island.  The country’s private-sector borrowing grew at the slowest
pace in at least 17 years in 2011. The  Central Bank  of Kuwait
last month cut the main  interest rate  by 50 basis points to 2
percent to spur growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  