-- Najib Targets Two-Thirds Majority, Flags Malaysian Election Soon
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-12-02T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/najib-targets-two-thirds-majority-flags-malaysian-election-soon.html
Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak
signaled his party has recovered from its 2008 election setback
and said the ruling coalition will be aiming to restore its two-
thirds parliamentary majority when elections are held soon.  “We will be going to the battlefield not too long from
now,” said Najib, speaking at the close of the United Malays
National Organisation’s annual assembly in  Kuala Lumpur  at the
weekend. “We will have to fight the war and that means we must
make sure our team is strong and united.”  The prime minister must dissolve parliament for new polls
by April 28. In the last election in 2008, the opposition
alliance, led by Anwar Ibrahim, secured enough seats to deny the
governing National Front coalition a two-thirds majority which
it had held for four decades. The opposition won five out of 
13 states, though it has since lost one after several lawmakers
defected to become independents.  Najib, 59, cut income taxes, boosted pay for government
workers and extended handouts for the poor in his 2013 budget
announced in September. While the global economy has slowed,
Malaysia has maintained gross domestic product  growth  above 5
percent for the past five quarters and its benchmark  stock index 
closed at a  record  last month.  “Najib’s tone is more confident because the general
assembly is a setting where you’ll have to rally the troops
before the election,” said Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst
at UCSI University in Kuala Lumpur, who recently joined the
opposition Democratic Action Party. “There’s no actual
political reason for him to be more confident.”  Election Target  Najib’s party, which backs policies favoring Malays, has
sought to boost its appeal among ethnic Chinese and Indian
voters who have shifted their support to opposition parties in
recent years.  The National Front has revised its election target and is
now aiming to regain its two-thirds majority, the Star newspaper
reported yesterday, citing Najib. The prime minister told
journalists in March that winning a clear majority would be
“challenging.”  The National Front coalition, known locally as Barisan
Nasional, controls  137 seats  in Malaysia’s 222-member parliament,
with Najib’s UMNO its biggest component.  Anwar Ibrahim ’s three-
party opposition known as the  People’s Alliance  holds 75 seats.  Najib, UMNO’s president, started an economic transformation
program two years ago which has so far attracted 212 billion
ringgit ($70 billion) of investment commitments, according to
the government’s Performance Management and Development Unit, or
 Pemandu . This includes a mass railway in Kuala Lumpur and oil
storage and petrochemicals hub in southern state of Johor.  2020 Vision  The initiative, aimed at drawing $444 billion of private
sector-led investments by 2020, is intended to help the
Southeast Asian country fulfill its long-term goal of achieving
developed nation status by the end of this decade. This should
continue irrespective of who wins the next election, said  Idris Jala , Pemandu’s chief executive officer.  “There was overwhelming response from the public that
these are good things for the country,” Jala, also a minister
in the Prime Minister’s Department, said in a Nov. 29 interview.
“Whether the new government remains the Barisan Nasional or is
new, I believe both of them will favorably look at the economic
transformation program.”  Najib’s approval rating fell one percentage point to 64
percent in June from a month earlier, according to a survey by
the  Merdeka Center for Opinion Research . The poll, the latest
available, showed 66 percent of Chinese and 47 percent of
Indians dissatisfied or angry with the government’s performance.  The support shown by party members at this week’s UMNO
assembly indicates that it has recovered from the last general
election, Bernama reported Nov. 28, citing the prime minister.  Najib’s party and the ruling coalition have faced several
corruption scandals that have tainted its image over the past
year.  Malaysia  ranked 60th out of 183 nations last year in
Transparency International’s corruption perceptions index, four
places lower than in 2010, when 178 countries were included.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  