-- Napoli, Inter Win to Keep Pressure on Juventus; Real Betis Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2012-12-02T23:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/napoli-inter-win-to-keep-pressure-on-juventus-real-betis-wins.html
Napoli and  Inter Milan  won yesterday
in Italian soccer’s Serie A to maintain the pressure on leader
Juventus, while Real Betis climbed to fourth in Spain’s La Liga.  Juventus tops the standings with 35 points following a 3-0
win against 10-man Torino two days ago. Napoli has 33 points,
with Inter two points further back.  Gokhan Inler and Edinson Cavani both scored twice for
Napoli in a 5-1 win against bottom club Pescara, which had
defender Antonio Bocchetti red-carded on 57 minutes. Marek
Hamsik got Napoli’s other goal, with Birkir Bjarnason replying
for the visitors.  An own goal from Palermo’s Santiago Garcia gave Inter a 1-0
win, while Fiorentina was held to a 2-2 tie by Sampdoria as it
missed a chance to join Inter on points.  Also, Lazio beat Parma 2-1 and Roma won 3-1 at Siena. AC
Milan rallied to defeat Catania 3-1 on Nov. 30.  Betis won 3-2 at Deportivo La Coruna yesterday to take
fourth spot in Spain, taking advantage of a 1-0 defeat for
Malaga at Getafe the previous day.  Unbeaten Barcelona leads the standings with 40 points from
14 matches after setting a record for the best start to a La
Liga season, with  Lionel Messi  scoring twice in a 5-1 victory
against Athletic Bilbao on Dec. 1.  It is six points ahead of  Atletico Madrid , with defending
champion Real Madrid on 29 points. Real beat Atletico 2-0 two
days ago, with  Cristiano Ronaldo  and Mesut Ozil scoring the
goals.  In France, goals from Souleymane Diawara and Andre Ayew
gave Marseille a 2-1 victory at Brest to lift the club within
two points of league leader Lyon.  Second place Marseille, beaten 4-1 by Lyon in midweek, is
three points ahead of Saint-Etienne and Paris Saint-Germain. Two
days ago, Lyon beat Montpellier 1-0 and PSG lost 2-1 at Nice.
Saint-Etienne tied 0-0 against Ajaccio on Nov. 30.  Bayern Munich  has an eight-point lead in Germany’s
Bundesliga following the weekend’s matches, after being held to
a 1-1 tie at home against third-place  Borussia Dortmund  two days
ago. Second place  Bayer Leverkusen  beat Nurnberg 1-0.  Yesterday, Werder Bremen won 4-1 at Hoffenheim, while
Wolfsburg and Hamburg drew 1-1.  FC Twente  and  Vitesse Arnhem  are tied on points atop the
Eredivisie after wins this weekend, as  PSV Eindhoven  slipped to
a 3-1 defeat at Ajax. Vitesse beat Roda JC 3-0 yesterday, and
Twente defeated Den Haag 2-0 two days ago. They lead PSV by one
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 