-- Netanyahu Vows More Building Based on Strategic Interests
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-12-02T16:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/netanyahu-vows-more-building-based-on-strategic-interests.html
Israel  will build in  Jerusalem  and
elsewhere according to its strategic interests, Prime Minister
 Benjamin Netanyahu  said, after his approval of new settlement
construction drew international criticism.  Israel approved building plans that include construction in
the  West Bank  area known as E1, less than 24 hours after the
 United Nations General Assembly  voted in favor of a resolution
recognizing  Palestine  as a non-member observer state on Nov. 29.  “Today we are building and we will continue to build in
Jerusalem and in all areas that are on the map of the strategic
interests of the state of Israel,” Netanyahu told the weekly
Cabinet meeting. The Palestinian move to upgrade its status at
the UN was a “gross violation” of its peace agreement with
Israel, he said, according to an e-mailed statement from his
office. Both sides signed the 1993 Oslo Accords, an interim
agreement intended to pave the way for a permanent treaty.  Approving the construction of 3,000 homes in Jerusalem and
the West Bank was a reaction to the Palestinian bid to upgrade
its status at the UN, Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said.  Barak denied a  report  in today’s Haaretz newspaper that he
told U.S. officials the decision to build was primarily due to
electoral considerations by Netanyahu’s Likud party ahead of the
Jan. 22 parliamentary elections.  “Barak said in his discussions in the U.S. that the
Israeli government has for the past 20 years retained the right
to build in E1,” the ministry said in an e-mailed statement.
“The Defense Minister said the construction was not due to
electoral considerations, but that during the election period
such a reaction should be expected to the UN decision.”  Withholding Funds  Israel is also planning as a punitive measure to withhold
the transfer of taxes it collects from Palestinians on behalf of
the  Palestinian Authority  and instead use the money to pay the
PA’s debt to Israel Electric Corp., Reshet Bet radio reported,
citing comments by Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz.  The Palestinian Authority, the UN and the U.S. consider all
Israeli settlements in the West Bank illegal. The area called
E1, east of the capital between Jerusalem and the Jewish
settlement of Maaleh Adumim, is particularly sensitive. Israeli
construction there may cut off Palestinians from east Jerusalem,
which they plan as their capital in a future peace accord.  Israeli settlements and east Jerusalem construction “are
counterproductive and make it harder to resume direct
negotiations or achieve a two-state solution,” U.S. National
Security Council spokesman Tommy Vietor said on Nov. 30.  Renewed Tension  The Israeli decision may lead to a renewed period of
tension between Netanyahu and President  Barack Obama , whose
administration criticized similar steps on West Bank settlement
construction during its first term.  “The Americans appear angry over this, and we may now see
a return to a period of strained relations between the U.S. and
Israel,” said Galia Golan, a political scientist at the
Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya north of Tel Aviv. “While we
don’t know if Obama was planning to be more engaged in the  peace
process  in his second term, this is certainly not a good start
from Netanyahu’s perspective.”  Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  told a rally
in  Ramallah  today that last week’s UN vote was “the beginning
of a new era” and “the recognition of Palestine has changed
the rules of the game.”  Abbas, whose Fatah faction controls the West Bank, said he
would spend the next few days holding meetings to advance the
reconciliation process with the Hamas Islamic movement that
rules the  Gaza Strip . Fatah and Hamas split after a violent
confrontation in Gaza in 2006. Hamas is classified as a
terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  