-- Japan Orders Nationwide Check of Tunnels After Collapse
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-12-03T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/nine-confirmed-dead-in-japan-highway-tunnel-collapse-nhk-says.html
Japan  ordered a nationwide inspection
of 49 tunnels after the collapse of a highway tunnel near Mt.
Fuji killed nine people and crushed cars with almost 400 tons of
concrete in the nation’s worst tunnel disaster in 16 years.  The Ministry of Transport ordered the inspections to be
conducted by 5 p.m. on Dec. 12, according to a statement on the
ministry’s website. About 270 concrete slabs, each weighing 1.4
tons, fell from the ceiling of the Sasago tunnel on the Chuo
expressway about 85 kilometers (53 miles) west of Tokyo early
Sunday morning.  Japan’s highway network includes more than 1,500 tunnels,
with a quarter of them more than 30 years old, according to the
Transport Ministry. The 4-kilometer Sasago tunnel, which was
built in 1976, may have collapsed because of age or seismic
activity, according to Central Nippon Expressway Co., which
operates the toll road.  “The bolts may have been getting old or there was some
impact from earthquake activity,” said Satoshi Noguchi, a
spokesman for Central Nippon. A final assessment on the cause of
the collapse will be given after police and Central Nippon
engineers complete their investigations, he said.  Some bolts securing the strap supporting the tunnel ceiling
were found to be missing, Noguchi said. The Sasago tunnel in
Yamanashi prefecture was last inspected by Central Nippon in
September, according to the Transport ministry.  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  expressed his condolences to
the victims yesterday.  “I would like to express my sincere prayers for those who
lost their lives and were injured in this accident,” Noda told
reporters in Tokyo. “I have instructed the Transportation
Ministry to do everything possible to provide emergency relief
to the injured and to investigate the cause quickly and
thoroughly to prevent a recurrence.”  Haneda, Aqua-Line  Among the 49 tunnels to be inspected are the Haneda tunnel
leading to the airport in central Tokyo and the Tokyo Bay Aqua-
Line, which includes an underwater tunnel connecting Kanagawa
and Chiba prefectures, the ministry said.  “Japan has the most earthquakes, and there needs to be
more investment in public infrastructure,” said  Masahiro Mochizuki , a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse AG. “Most
roads in Japan were built around the time of the 1964 Tokyo
Olympics and are aging.”  Infrastructure Spending  The Sasago tunnel was built in 1976 by a joint-venture
between  Taisei Corp. (1801)  and  Obayashi Corp. (1802)  Taisei shares rose 4.9
percent and Obayashi gained 3 percent yesterday on optimism
criticism about public spending on infrastructure will wane,
according to Yoji Otani, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Tokyo.  “Opposition toward public spending on infrastructure will
likely become relaxed,” Otani said. “You can’t place a value
on human lives.”  Drivers near the Sasago tunnel were diverted to route 20,
which runs almost parallel to the Chuo expressway, which links
 Tokyo  to Nagoya, Japan’s fourth-largest city. Central Nippon
also operates the Tomei expressway, which is an alternate route.  In 1996, a rockslide near the entrance of the Toyohama
tunnel in Hokkaido crushed a bus and killed 20 people, while 7
people died in 1979 in the Nihonzaka tunnel along the Tomei
expressway in Shizuoka prefecture after a fire from a car crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  