-- Nokia Speed Advantage Opens Way to Holiday Gain on IPhone
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-12-03T08:22:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/nokia-speed-advantage-opens-way-to-holiday-gain-on-iphone.html
When Tommie Johansson was looking for
a new smartphone in  Stockholm  last month, he quickly ruled out
the iPhone 5. The reason: It’s too slow.  The  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  handset can’t connect to the newest networks
of most European carriers. That creates a potential opening for
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  as it seeks to claw back lost market share with new
phones that can take full advantage of the fastest networks.  Nokia is vying with Apple and South Korea’s  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  for European shoppers’ holiday budgets and an
early foothold in the market for LTE smartphones, which are
faster and often have bigger screens. For Nokia, facing falling
revenue and  mounting losses , winning over customers like
Johansson would help it regain traction in a market dominated by
Apple and phones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  “A fast Internet connection is a must so I knew I wanted a
4G phone,” said Johansson, 41-year-old software developer in
Stockholm. Nokia’s top-of-the-line Lumia 920 “was the one.”  LTE, or long-term evolution, is a wireless technology
allowing quicker Web browsing, song downloads and video
streaming. While the iPhone 5 can connect to the LTE networks of
the biggest U.S. carriers, it can’t do so in  Europe  because most
operators there provide LTE service on a different frequency.  Holiday Shoppers  The fast LTE connection and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s new Windows
Phone 8 software are among the features Nokia is touting as it
tries to lure back consumers who defected over the past five
years. Apple and Android now control almost 90 percent of the
European smartphone market, according to Strategy Analytics.
Nokia, which once dominated global smartphone sales, competes
for the rest with BlackBerry-maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and a
handful of other also-rans.  “The Lumia’s LTE connectability is going to help Nokia
stand out to holiday shoppers,” said Johan Eidhagen, general
manager of Nokia in Scandinavia.  Nokia shares rose 21 percent in the past two weeks amid
reports the Lumia 920 sold out in German stores soon after its
debut, signaling good demand. The  stock  is still down almost 90
percent since the first iPhone was introduced five years ago.
Nokia fell 0.8 percent to 2.53 euros at 10:19 a.m. in Helsinki.  “There is clearly strong demand among European consumers
for 4G phones,” said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy
Analytics in London. He predicts Nokia will sell 5 million
Lumias in the fourth quarter, up from 2.9 million in the
previous three months.  Apple ‘Skepticism’  Nokia’s Lumia 920 and Lumia 820 allow users to access the
about two dozen LTE mobile networks in western Europe, according
to Strategy Analytics. The iPhone 5  only works  on the LTE
network of two carriers --  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  in Germany and
EE, a U.K. venture of Deutsche Telekom and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   Apple may have prioritized the U.S. in its design because
LTE networks there offer broader coverage and there are more
potential customers than in Europe, Mawston said. The company
hasn’t announced plans to update the iPhone 5 with more
frequencies and officials of the Cupertino, California-based
company declined to comment.  The U.S. focus means Apple is losing some early LTE
adopters in an important market. Western Europe’s smartphone
shipments reached 28.1 million units last quarter, versus 26.7
million in the U.S., according to Strategy Analytics.  “There’s more skepticism around Apple now since their new
phone doesn’t work with LTE,” said Filip Ljuboje, a salesman at
a mobile-phone store in Stockholm. “The 3G net is congested
from so many users, so moving to LTE is a priority.”  The speed advantage over the iPhone alone won’t be enough
to revive Nokia. The company, based in Espoo,  Finland , also
needs to lure customers away from rivals such as Samsung, which
doesn’t have an LTE speed handicap.  Loyalist Support  Samsung makes handsets running the Android operating system
and has become the  biggest maker  of smartphones. It also sees
LTE as a key part of its strategy, and its Galaxy S III and Note
II work on European LTE networks.  “There is definitely the possibility of a boost for us,”
said Martin Cullberg, director of Samsung’s telecom business for
the Nordic region. “The focus right now is to show the benefit
you get by using LTE that supports all available frequencies.”  Samsung’s “strong momentum” and consumer satisfaction
with Apple and Android are among the key hurdles for any
smartphone recovery for Nokia, according to Kai Korschelt, a
Deutsche Bank AG analyst in  London . German stores may have run
out of new Lumia phones because of limited supply rather than
overwhelming demand, Korschelt wrote in a note to clients last
week.  “It seems that the initial interest and purchases are
mainly from loyal Nokia users and electronics enthusiasts,”
said Korschelt, who advises selling the company’s shares. “We
continue to see limited consumer traction for Nokia’s Windows 8
devices in a highly competitive and duopolistic smartphone
market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  