-- N. Korean Rocket Plans Proceed as Japan Warns Against Launch
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-12-03T08:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/north-korea-plans-rocket-launch-as-south-korea-holds-election.html
North Korea is proceeding with plans
to test a long-range rocket this month in defiance of
international condemnation that included Japanese warnings to
shoot it down if necessary.  The totalitarian state placed the first stage of the rocket
on a launchpad on the northwestern coast, Yonhap News reported,
citing an unidentified South Korean official. Japanese Prime
Minister Yoshihiko Noda called for “close cooperation” with
the U.S., South Korea,  China  and  Russia  to push the regime of
leader Kim Jong Un to abandon its plan.  “We strongly urge North Korea to exercise self-
restraint,” Noda said today in a group interview with reporters
in Tokyo. Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto said Dec. 1 the
government will “take all necessary actions” to protect Japan
and ordered the deployment of its missile intercept system.  North Korea said it will fire the rocket between Dec. 10
and Dec. 22 to put a satellite into space, the same explanation
given for an April launch that exploded shortly after liftoff.
The test, to mark the one-year anniversary of the death of Kim’s
father, former dictator Kim Jong Il, may coincide with South
Korea’s presidential election on Dec. 19.  North Korea “is trying to make up for the failure of the
April rocket launch and thereby solidify new leader Kim Jong Un’s rule,” said Baek Seung Joo, an analyst at Seoul-based
Korea Institute for Defense Analyses.  South Korean defense shares rose, with electronic warfare
equipment maker  Victek Co. (065450)  and armored vehicle manufacturer
 Firstec Co. (010820)  each rising by the daily limit of 15 percent.  Stern Warning  South Korea “sternly” warned its neighbor against the
plan, saying the firing would bring a “forceful response” from
the world. “North Koreans must recognize the grim fact that
their futile campaigns only aggravate the feelings of South
Koreans toward the North,” South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
told Yonhap yesterday.  The communist state will launch a polar-orbiting earth
observation satellite atop an Unha-3 rocket, the official Korean
Central News Agency said. The planned liftoff, from the Sohae
Space Center about 130 kilometers (80 miles) northwest of the
capital, Pyongyang, may complicate international efforts to
engage North Korea. The botched launch in April cost the
impoverished country a food-aid deal with the U.S.  China, North Korea’s main ally and trading partner,
expressed concern over the situation and called for calm.  “We hope the relevant parties will exercise calmness and
not take actions that will escalate the situation,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman Hong Lei told reporters in Beijing today.  Flight Path  A “safe flight path” has been chosen so that potential
debris won’t affect neighboring countries, KCNA said. North
Korea will fully comply with relevant international regulations
regarding satellite launches, it said.  Japan ’s Nippon TV reported, citing an unidentified person,
that North Korea is also preparing a second rocket at a military
facility outside of Pyongyang as a possible backup.  North Korea is developing missiles that may be able to
reach North America and carry warheads weighing as much as 1,000
kilograms, according to U.S. and South Korean estimates. The
U.S. has previously called North Korea’s satellite plans a cover
for testing long-range ballistic missiles.  The rocket is likely to be launched on Dec. 17 when the
regime marks the anniversary of Kim Jong Il’s death, Baek said.
South Korea’s election two days later is also a factor in the
timing, he said.  ‘Closely Monitoring’  South Korea’s military is “closely monitoring” North
Korea’s launch preparations, Defense Ministry spokesman Shin Won
Sik said yesterday by phone. No unusual troop movements have
been spotted in the North, and South Korean alert levels remain
unchanged, he said.  The U.S. and U.K. warned against the launch.  “The United Nation Security Council made clear in April
that any attempts by North Korea to launch a satellite using
ballistic missile technology would be a serious violation,”
U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague said in an e-mailed
statement. “We therefore call on North Korean authorities to
abandon this plan. Failure to do so must lead to a further
response by the international community, and will damage the
prospects for peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.”  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland said a
rocket test would be “highly provocative” and “only further
isolate and impoverish North Korea.”  Envoy Meeting  South Korea’s chief nuclear negotiator Kim Sung Nam will
travel to  Washington  to discuss the situation with Glyn Davies,
the U.S. special envoy on North Korea, the South Korean Foreign
Ministry said in a statement.  The U.S. agreed in October to allow South Korea to extend
the range of its missiles to 800 kilometers (497 miles) against
possible nuclear and missile attacks from the North. North
Korea’s arsenal includes Scud, Rodong and Musudan missiles. The
Musudan has a range of more than 3,000 kilometers and can carry
a 650 kilogram warhead, according to South Korea’s Defense
Ministry.  Kim’s regime is also developing its Taepodong-2 missile,
which may have a range of 6,700 kilometers and be able to carry
a  warhead  weighing as much as 1,000 kilograms, according to U.S.
and South Korean estimates.  The announcement of the planned launch came just days after
South Korea canceled the liftoff of a civilian space rocket
because of a technical problem.  Nuclear Ambitions  Kim, believed to be in his twenties, has shown no sign of
abandoning his country’s nuclear ambitions. North Korea has no
plan “at present” to conduct a third nuclear test, a Foreign
Ministry spokesman said in a statement carried by KCNA in June.  North Korea has more than 250 long-range artillery
installations along the Demilitarized Zone, the world’s most
fortified border, according to U.S. military estimates.  The two Koreas technically remain at war after the
1950-1953 conflict ended without a peace treaty. The U.S.
military has since maintained a presence on the South Korean
side of the peninsula, holding wartime operational control.
About 28,500 U.S. soldiers are currently stationed in the South.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  