-- Osborne Says He Needs More Time to Rid U.K. of Budget Deficit
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-12-02T13:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/osborne-says-he-needs-more-time-to-rid-u-k-of-budget-deficit.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said it’s taking longer than planned to balance
Britain’s public finances, the first indication that his
austerity program will roll on for another year.  The comments suggest his 2010 plan to eliminate the bulk of
the  budget deficit  in time for the 2015 general election may be
extended until 2018, the second time Osborne has had rethink his
initial plan. The Chancellor will update Parliament with the
government’s latest economic and fiscal forecasts on Dec. 5.  “It’s clearly taking longer to deal with Britain’s debts,
it’s clearly taking longer to recover from the financial crisis
than anyone would have hoped,” Osborne told BBC1 Television in
London today.  The deterioration in the fiscal position leaves Osborne
exposed to further political attack from the opposition  Labour
Party , which says fiscal retrenchment is self defeating during a
period of weak economic growth. Investors in financial markets
may be more forgiving for a second breach, with many preferring
more slippage over fiscal constraints on growth.  Osborne refused to spell out whether the  Office for Budget
Responsibility , which prepares forecasts for the Treasury and
judges whether the Chancellor is sticking to his targets, will
say he has missed both targets to have debt falling as a share
of national income by 2015 and balance the current budget.
Instead, he said, that as “a general observation” there would
be a delay.  Spreading Burden  Osborne said the prolonged fiscal retrenchment would have
to be spread fairly across society, with the richest shouldering
most of the burden and those on welfare also helping in the
effort. He ruled out a so-called “mansion tax” and said he’d
beef up resources at the tax collection agency to chase evasion
among multinational companies operating in the U.K.  “I am very clear going forward: we have got to deal with
this deficit and it is going to take longer, that means more
difficult decisions and it’s got to be done fairly that means,
yes, the richest have to bear their share and they will -- that
does mean more than they are paying at the moment,” Osborne
said. “We are also going to tackle welfare bills.”  Pension Savings  Osborne will increase taxes on pension savings of the
wealthiest, the Sunday Telegraph reported today.  The budget deficit is on course to overshoot the 120
billion pounds ($192 billion) forecast by the OBR in March. In
the first seven months of the fiscal year, the deficit climbed
to 73.3 billion pounds from 68.3 billion pounds a year earlier.  Based on current trends and stripping out accounting
changes that would flatter the figures, the full-year deficit is
projected to be 125 billion pounds, although it  may be higher  as
 government spending  usually picks up toward the end of the year.
That’s above the 121 billion pounds in the fiscal year that
ended in March.  “He’s failing because this year, the borrowing is going
up, not down,” said  Ed Balls , who shadows Osborne in Parliament
for the Labour Party.  The OBR will also say whether Osborne has a realistic
chance of meeting his target to start reducing debt as a share
of the economy by 2015. Net debt climbed to 1.07 trillion pounds
last month, or 67.9 percent of gross domestic product, the
statistics office said.  BOE Transfer  Economists say Osborne may just achieve that goal after the
 Bank of England  agreed this month to transfer 35 billion pounds
of cash accumulated under its bond-buying program to the
Treasury by April 2014.  “Provided market participants don’t dwell too heavily on
the ‘accounting conventions’ and ‘cash-management efficiency’
measures, gilts should remain a relative safe haven, though they
have lost some of their luster,” said  Ross Walker , chief U.K.
economist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in London.  Osborne should abandon his debt target rather than risk
damaging the economic recovery by introducing new austerity
measures, according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  All except one of 18 economists polled between Sept. 21 and
Sept. 28 said missing the goal of starting to bring down
government debt as a share of output by 2015-16 is preferable to
extra spending cuts at a time when the economy is mired in
recession. Most said further austerity would alarm investors
more than letting the debt target go, which may risk the U.K.’s
top credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  