-- Philippines Faces Fiercest Storm a Year After Deadly Cyclone
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   J o e l   G u i n t o
-- 2012-12-03T00:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/philippines-faces-fiercest-storm-a-year-after-deadly-cyclone.html
The Philippines is bracing for the
strongest storm in 2012 almost a year after typhoon Washi
triggered landslides, flooding and the highest cyclone death
toll since 2008.  Storm Bopha  is forecast to dump 20 millimeters (0.8 inches)
to 30 millimeters per hour of rain within its 600-kilometer
diameter, compared with 50 millimeters by typhoon Ketsana in
2009, Nathaniel Servando, weather bureau administrator said in a
phone interview yesterday. Civil Defense Chief Benito Ramos said
the nation is “very prepared,” having warned residents on the
storm path five days before the cyclone was due to enter
Philippine territory.  Soldiers and police are in position to transfer residents
in flood and landslide-prone areas to evacuation centers when
necessary, Ramos said by phone. The Philippine navy placed at
least 40 ships on standby, spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Omar
Tonsay said. The social welfare department has relief supplies
ready, Ramos said.  The  Philippines  is regularly battered by cyclones that form
over the Pacific Ocean, often causing devastation that prompts
criticism of the government’s preparation and handling.  Washi 
killed more than 1,200 people, mostly in the southern region of
Mindanao in December 2011. In September 2009, Ketsana flooded
Manila and parts of Luzon, killing more than 400 people. Monsoon
rains flooded half of the Manila region in August.  Potential Floods, Landslides  Bopha “is the strongest typhoon this year, with the
potential to trigger floods and landslides,” Servando said,
using wind speed as gauge. Bopha will likely track a path close
to the one taken by Washi, he said.  The cyclone is seen to pack maximum sustained winds of 175
kilometers per hour and gusts of up to 210 kilometers per hour,
the  weather bureau  said on its website at 5 a.m. today. The wind
speed and gusts are slower from yesterday’s forecasts of 185
kilometers per hour and 220 kilometers per hour respectively. It
entered Philippine waters at 6 p.m. yesterday, when it was
spotted at 900 kilometers southeast of Hinatuan town, Mindanao,
and will hit land at 8 a.m. tomorrow in Surigao. It will cross
Northern Mindanao and Central Visayas, according to the weather
bulletin.  “The storm can weaken further, but only slightly,”
Servando said by phone today. “It’s still a strong storm.”  Death Toll  Fatalities from Washi surpassed the combined death toll of
929 from  Ketsana and Parma  storms in 2009, which damaged more
than 38 billion pesos ($931 million) of homes, infrastructure
and farm output. Typhoon Fengshen killed about 1,300 people in
June 2008 and damaged about 7 billion pesos of crops and
irrigation. The death toll from Fengshen included more than 900
people aboard a ship that capsized.  The damage due to typhoons and other calamities in 2011
reached 59.2 billion pesos, Economic Planning Secretary Arsenio Balisacan said in August. That month,  inflation  accelerated to
3.8 percent, the fastest pace in seven months, on supply
disruptions that followed flooding caused by torrential rains.
Consumer price gains slowed to 3.1 percent in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in  Manila  at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Joel Guinto in Manila at 
 jguinto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming in Singapore at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  