-- Putin Visits Turkey as Syrian Crisis Risks Ensnaring Trade Ties
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   S e l c a n   H a c a o g l u
-- 2012-12-02T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/putin-visits-turkey-as-syrian-crisis-risks-ensnaring-trade-ties.html
Russian President Vladimir Putin
embarks on his first foreign trip in two months with a visit to
Turkey, trying to shield growing trade ties from a widening rift
over the Syrian conflict.  Hampered by a back injury since September, Putin postponed
a trip to Turkey in October on the same day that Turkish F-16
jets grounded a Syrian airplane flying from Moscow. A one-day
visit to Istanbul today will feature a bilateral council and a
meeting with Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan .  The two Black Sea states are trying to keep relations from
becoming hostage to  Syria ’s 20-month civil war that threatens to
spill over to neighboring nations, prompting plans to deploy
Patriot missile batteries in Turkey, a move opposed by  Russia .
Still, economic ties showed resilience as state-run OAO Sberbank
bought  Denizbank AS (DENIZ)  for $3.5 billion in June and Russia’s  trade 
turnover with Turkey has increased.  “The two countries have learned to separate geopolitical
competition from complimentary commercial cooperation, including
energy ties,” said Lilit Gevorgyan, an analyst at IHS Global
Insight in  London . “There is little that Putin can do to
influence Turkey’s choices, unless of course, he conditions
commercial ties to his foreign policy calls. But this is highly
unlikely to happen.”  The ruble is the top performer among more than 20 emerging-
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg over the past month,
gaining 1.7 percent against the dollar compared with the Turkish
lira’s 0.6 percent advance. Russian credit-default swaps costs
five basis points more than  Turkey . The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a government or company fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Russian Vetoes  Russia, one of five permanent members in the United Nations 
Security Council, used its veto three times to protect the 
government of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, putting it at 
odds with Turkey, which has backed the rebels who have been 
fighting to end Assad’s rule since March last year.  Tensions between the former allies have escalated since a
shell fired from Syria landed in a Turkish border town in
October, killing five people. In June, a Turkish plane was shot
down by Syrian forces in the east Mediterranean. Turkey has
deployed additional troops and weapons to the border with Syria.  ‘No Bargaining’  “There will be no bargaining on Syria for now,” said
 Fyodor Lukyanov , an analyst at the Moscow-based Council on
Foreign and Defense Policy. “Turkey is very important for
Russia. It has become an independent player, with its own ideas
about what’s needed to be done in the region.”  Erdogan’s government, which has called on Assad to step
down and allowed Syrian officers to command the rebel Free
Syrian Army from a refugee camp inside Turkey, has asked NATO to
place Patriot missiles in Turkey for the first time in about a
decade.  While Turkey says the deployment is purely a defensive
measure as rebels and government forces are engaged in clashes
near the Turkish border, Russia contends the deployment could
provoke regional tensions.  In October, Russia accused Turkish authorities of
mistreating Russian citizens who were on board a Syrian plane
flying from Moscow to Damascus that was forced to land for a
search, charges Turkey has denied.  When pressing Erdogan on Syria, Putin will have to weigh
his country’s burgeoning economic ties with Turkey that span
banking, energy and tourism.  Tourists, Gas  Turkey is Russia’s seventh-biggest trade partner, ahead of
all but one member of the so-called BRICS group of the world’s
biggest developing markets. It’s the top foreign destination for
Russian tourists and the second-largest export market after
 Germany  for state-owned  OAO Gazprom. (OGZD)  Russia, the biggest energy
supplier for Turkey, is also building the country’s first
nuclear plant.  Trade and economic cooperation are in a “completely
different dimension” from the discord over Syria, said Putin’s
spokesman, Dmitry Peskov. Still, Russia is concerned with
Turkey’s “unconditional support for one side, which amounts to
interference in Syrian internal affairs and an attempt to impose
a solution from outside.”  Trade between Russia and Turkey grew to  $25.6 billion  in
first nine months of the year, an increase of more than 14
percent from a year earlier, according to the Federal Customs
Service in Moscow.  Turkey may seek to use oil purchases from Russia to offset
a drop in oil shipments from  Iran  as a result of sanctions
against the Persian Gulf state, Energy Minister  Taner Yildiz 
said on Nov. 26, according to Hurriyet newspaper.  Rival Route  Turkey, along with  Bulgaria , agreed for a Gazprom-led
venture to use its Black Sea territorial waters to build a 10-
billion euro ($13 billion) pipeline. Gazprom and its partners in
the South Stream venture will mark the ceremonial start of
construction on Dec. 7, while seeking environmental permits to
begin actual construction of the offshore link to southern and
central  Europe  in 2014.  Russia is rushing to begin the project as the European
Union is planning a rival route to bring the Caspian region gas
to Europe via Turkey and cut dependence on Russian fuel. Last
month, Gazprom concluded a 23-year supply agreement with Turkish
companies.  “Perhaps reluctantly the two countries appear to have
landed on opposite sides of the crisis,” IHS  Global Insight ’s
Gevorgyan said. Still, Gazprom’s deal signals that “Moscow and
Ankara have agreed to disagree on geopolitical issues while
keeping the focus on promoting business ties.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Selcan Hacaoglu in Ankara at 
 shacaoglu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  