-- Revolving Romanian Cabinets Spook Investors as Cash Flees
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-12-03T14:27:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/revolving-romanian-cabinets-spook-investors-as-cash-flees.html
Romania  needs its Dec. 9 election to
end a political war that has split the nation’s leaders or face
a slide in the currency, bonds and investments, said executives
and analysts from Bucharest to  London .  The former communist country, with more prime ministers
since 1990 than any other European Union member, has been ruled
by three Cabinets this year, stalling plans to strengthen the
economy and the judiciary.  Foreign direct investment  plunged to
1.1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) in the first nine months from a
record 9.5 billion euros in 2008 and the leu is hovering near an
all-time low.  “We need a government that achieves the things it promises
to deliver,” said Steven van Groningen, the head of  Raiffeisen
Bank International AG (RBI) ’s Romanian unit. “The lack of
predictability is the most important factor that negatively
influences the business climate.”  President Traian Basescu and Prime Minister Victor Ponta
are caught up in a power struggle that led to a government
collapse in March and a failed impeachment vote against Basescu.
The conflict prompted German Chancellor Angela Merkel to voice
concerns the EU’s second-poorest member behind neighboring
Bulgaria is backsliding on democracy as it seeks further aid
from the EU and the International Monetary Fund.  Investor Confidence  Investor confidence has waned, boosting borrowing costs and
pushing the leu to a record-low 4.6520 against the euro on Aug.
3. The volatility prompted the central bank to halt a series of
interest-rate cuts designed to boost economic growth.  The cost of insuring Romanian debt against non-payment for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 228 points from
206 points on Oct. 17, the lowest in at least two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think the ruling coalition is aware of the
dangers it is facing,” said Michael Taylor, a senior analyst at
Oxford Analytica in the U.K. “This affects foreign investments
as companies become very suspicious about being in a country
where they don’t know what to expect.”  Skepticism about the government’s ability to deliver on
promises exacerbates concern about a faltering economy. Gross
domestic product contracted a seasonally adjusted 0.5 percent in
the third quarter, erasing a 0.5 percent gain in the previous
three months.  The country of about 19 million, the second largest in the
EU’s east, has slipped to 72nd of 183 nations in the World
Bank’s 2012  Ease of Doing Business survey , below neighboring
 Bulgaria  and Hungary.  Political Strife  Ponta’s ruling coalition, known as the Social Liberal
Union, is set to win 57.4 percent of the vote, according to the
polling company IMAS. The survey of 1,039 people between Oct. 10
and Oct. 18 put parties aligned with Basescu at 16 percent. The
margin of error was 3 percentage points.  A poll broadcast today by  private television  Antena 3
showed Ponta’s union garnering 62 percent of the votes,
according to polling company CCSB, which surveyed 1,003 people
by phone from Nov. 22 to Nov. 26. The opposition alliance who
backs Basescu will probably get 17 percent of the votes, it
said. The poll had a margin of error of 3.2 percentage points.  “The fact that this electoral year will be over soon is
good news in itself as, hopefully, politicians will leave aside
the political strife and will address key priorities,” Mark Mobius, who manages $50 billion in emerging-market debt at
Templeton Asset Management, said by e-mail. “Regardless of the
government’s composition after the vote, we expect it to ensure
stability and predictability for the business environment.”  The prospect of a decisive win giving Ponta enough
parliamentary backing to execute his agenda may help win
investor confidence, said  Gyula Toth , who helps manage 400
million euros at Ithuba Capital in Vienna.  “The expectation is that the current government will win
the election and that they’ll reach an agreement with the IMF
shortly afterwards, maybe even in the first quarter,” said
Toth. “If there’s a change to this scenario it may have a
negative.”  EU Bailout  Ponta and Basescu agree that Romania needs to reach a deal
with the IMF and the EU next year, once the current 5 billion-
euro precautionary accord, signed in 2011, ends. The nation has
drawn no money from the facility. Romania also got a 20 billion-
euro bailout from the IMF and the EU in 2009.  “Foreign investments won’t solve Romania’s problem of
creating jobs because their volume is low,” Basescu told
Evenimentul Zilei newspaper in an  interview  published today.
“In the next four to five years, we’ll have to count on our own
resources, namely European funds, which will total about 6
billion euros in 2013, mining, wind energy, shale gas and oil
and gas production in the Black Sea.”  Outdated Infrastructure  The next government must also upgrade infrastructure,
develop capital markets and improve legislation, according to
Mobius and Mariana Gheorghe, who heads  OMV Petrom SA (OMV) , Romania’s
biggest oil company and the largest contributor to the state
budget.  Romania’s infrastructure is among the shoddiest in the EU,
according to the World Bank. The country with an area almost the
size of U.K. has three highways with a combined length of less
than 500 kilometers (310 miles).  Companies such as German tiremaker  Continental AG (CON)  need
improved transport systems to help distribution and shipping to
neighboring countries such as Hungary.  “In one year, it will be the perfect location for me to
make plans and grow, because we are near the raw materials and
key routes for exporting our tires,” said Pedro Carreira, the
head of Continental’s factory in the city of Timisoara, less
than an hour from neighboring  Hungary .  Coalition Plans  If it wins, the ruling coalition plans to pass measures to
stimulate the economy and may consider some tax cuts and wage
increases,  according to its program . The opposition alliance has
promised to cut a 16 percent flat tax and lower some social
contributions.  After so many promises and so little action in the past,
Raiffeisen’s van Groningen says he’ll wait to see if politicians
will turn their attention to the economy instead of each other.  “The proposals are just words,” he said. “What we need
is to increase the capacity of the administration to deliver.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  