-- Sandy Probably Dealt Blow to Jobs Rebound: U.S. Economy Preview
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-12-02T05:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/sandy-probably-dealt-blow-to-jobs-rebound-u-s-economy-preview.html
The damage wrought by Sandy probably
extended to the job market in November as the superstorm forced
businesses to close, upending the recent pickup in U.S. hiring,
economists projected a report this week will show.  Payrolls rose by 90,000 workers last month, the smallest
gain since June, according to the median forecast of 71
economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of Labor Department
figures Dec. 7. Manufacturing and services grew at a slower
pace, other reports may show.  Sandy, the largest Atlantic storm ever to hit the nation,
left about 8 million homes and businesses without power for days
after making landfall in the Northeast on Oct. 29. In addition,
concern about the looming fiscal cliff may be limiting
employment, one reason why Federal Reserve policy makers are
weighing increasing stimulus early next year.  “The storm was certainly very disruptive and the numbers
will reflect that,” said Scott Brown, chief economist at
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in St. Petersburg,  Florida .
“The bigger picture is we’re seeing measured progress in the
labor market. Job growth in recent months has been somewhat
better than people expected, but we’ve still got a lot of ground
to make up. The Fed will do additional Treasury purchases.”  The payrolls report may also show the jobless rate held at
7.9 percent last month, according to the survey. Private
employment, which excludes government agencies, also rose by
90,000 in November, less than half the prior month’s 184,000
increase that was the biggest since February, the survey showed.  Job Gains  Through October, the U.S. had recovered 4.5 million of the
8.8 million jobs lost as a result of the 18-month recession that
ended in June 2009.  Economists at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and UBS
Securities LLC estimate Sandy cut November payrolls by about
150,000 workers, based on comparisons with the damage caused by
Hurricane Katrina in 2005. History suggests the “temporary
hiring stall” will extend into December, after which employment
should “meaningfully recover within a couple of months,” Joe LaVorgna, Deutsche Bank’s chief U.S. economist, said in a Nov.
26 note.  The bankruptcy of Hostess Brands Inc., the baker of
Twinkies and Wonder bread, will also depress payrolls in coming
months. The Irving, Texas-based company on Nov. 22 began firing
15,000 workers, temporarily keeping about 3,200 of its remaining
employees to clean plants and mothball equipment.  On the brighter side, an early Thanksgiving may have
provided a boost of about 75,000 to payrolls last month, UBS
projects.  Holiday Hiring  Businesses stepping up hiring to cater to holiday shoppers
include  Macy’s Inc. (M)  The second-biggest U.S. department-store
chain said it would add about 2,000 more seasonal workers than
the 78,000 it hired last year. Toys ‘R’ Us Inc., the world’s
largest toy retailer, reported plans to employ 45,000 temporary
staff, up 5,000 from the 2011 season.  “Although the economy continues to expand, we must grow
faster if we are to put all of our jobless workers and idle
businesses back to work,” William Dudley, president of the
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said in a Nov. 29 speech.  Dudley is focusing on “unacceptably high” joblessness as
he considers whether the Fed should step up easing to stimulate
the economy.  An improving labor market, rising home values and cheaper
gasoline are boosting Americans’ moods, another report on Dec. 7
may show. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary
 index  of consumer sentiment in December probably held close to
the prior month’s five-year high, economists in the Bloomberg
survey predicted.  Fiscal Cliff  Companies remain concerned about the outlook, which will
affect hiring and investment, ahead of the so-called fiscal
cliff of $607 billion in tax increases and government spending
cuts that will take place in early 2013 unless lawmakers act to
avert it.  “We’re expecting the same sort of a slow-growth
environment, that’s our best view of 2013,” Fredrik Eliasson,
chief financial officer of  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the largest eastern U.S.
railroad, said on a Nov. 28 teleconference with analysts.
“There are a lot of uncertainties out there in the world at
this point between what’s going on here with the fiscal cliff
and between Europe and  China .”  The Standard & Poor’s  500 Index (SPX)  has swung between gains and
losses amid lawmakers’ comments on whether a budget agreement
can be reached. The S&P 500 advanced 0.5 percent this week and
rose 0.3 percent for the month.  Manufacturing Cools  Cooling global demand and U.S. fiscal policy concerns will
be reflected in manufacturing data this week. Factory orders
stagnated in October, the Commerce Department may report Dec. 5.
The Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s factory  index , due
tomorrow, fell to 51.5 in November from 51.7 the prior month,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. Fifty is the dividing
line between expansion and contraction.  Two days later, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM group’s
 services  index, which covers almost 90 percent of the economy,
may come in at 53.5, down from the prior month’s 54.2 reading,
according to economists surveyed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  