-- Obama Keeps the SEC in Pocket of Wall Street
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 2012-12-02T23:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/sec-trades-one-wall-street-lapdog-for-another.html
As surely as little boys on sleds
follow the first snowfall, the departure of  Mary Schapiro  as
chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission has
occasioned one fawning encomium after another from the press.  “It’s not a stretch to say she has saved the regulatory
body from irrelevance, if not outright extinction, and she has
rebuilt it into a powerful presence on Wall Street,” wrote Dana Milbank of the Washington Post.  The  New York  Times’s business section carried an homage to
Schapiro, along with the requisite photograph of her looking off
into the middle distance, pensively, as the late-afternoon sun
flooded an SEC conference room. “As her bruising tenure comes to
an end,” the article said, she “leaves behind a stronger S.E.C.,
an overhaul characterized by her attention to detail and
meticulous preparation.”  I understand the time-honored ritual of praising a
departing public servant for his or her selflessness in passing
up millions of dollars in the private sector to take on the
thankless task of heading up a powerful government agency. But
enough already.  Let’s face it: Mary Schapiro did a lousy job as head of the
SEC. What we needed was an SEC that would not only do its
primary job of protecting investors from the likes of Bernie Madoff but also would hold  Wall Street  executives accountable
for their extraordinarily bad -- and, yes, in some cases
criminal -- behavior leading up to the 2007 and 2008 financial
crisis.  Toothless Enforcer  What President  Barack Obama  gave us in Schapiro was yet
another Wall Street regulator deeply indebted to Wall Street
itself. Schapiro, the former chief executive officer of the
banks’ self-regulatory agency, the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, has long had her own fortunes closely tied to those
of banking bigwigs. When she left Finra in 2009 to take the SEC
job, its board paid her a $9 million bonus -- a little something
to remember them by.  Remember them she did. Instead of finding a head of
enforcement with teeth, Schapiro appointed  Robert Khuzami ,
former general counsel of  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  in the Americas. In
that previous job, Khuzami  approved the sale  to investors of
billions of dollars of mortgage-backed securities and
collateralized debt obligations that would later prove beyond
toxic -- and one of the main causes of the financial collapse.  Not surprisingly, Schapiro and Khuzami have done close to
nothing to hold Wall Street bankers, traders and executives
accountable for causing the financial crisis. Neither Khuzami
nor Preet Bharara, the U.S. attorney in the Southern District of
New York, have been able to uncover a shred of criminal evidence
against  Jon Corzine , the former CEO of MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
for his role in that firm’s collapse. This despite the
unexplained, unauthorized use of customer money to cover MF
Global’s rising debts in the last days of its existence.  Nor was there an effort to make a case against Richard Fuld, the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., despite the solid evidence of indictable offenses itemized
in the  post-mortem  done on the firm by court-appointed examiner
Anton Valukas. Funny how a generation ago, before regulators had
the advantage of incriminating e-mail trails, 3,500 financial
industry workers went to jail for their roles in the savings and
loan crisis.  Congressional Questions  As if we needed another reason to lament the way Schapiro
ran the SEC, she obliged this month in an exchange with
Representative  Nita Lowey , a New York Democrat. Lowey was upset
about the case of Peter Sivere, a former whistle-blower in the
compliance department at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  whose anonymity
was blown by George Demos, an SEC lawyer who later ran for
Congress. (I wrote in greater detail about  Sivere’s plight  in an
earlier column.) Lowey wrote Schapiro on Sept. 21: “What steps
has the SEC taken to ensure the protection of the identity of
whistleblowers and how will the SEC correct this mistake and
ensure that such a disclosure will not occur in the future?”  Basic questions. But not for Schapiro.  In a Nov. 14 response to Lowey, Schapiro trotted out the
sort of corporate pablum she must have written thousands of
times at Finra: “Because this case involved a confidential
personnel matter, I cannot disclose what supervisory response,
if any, was made in this particular case prior.” Thanks, Mary!  Now Obama has added insult to injury by naming Elisse Walter, a crony of Schapiro’s from Finra and a current SEC
commissioner, as Schapiro’s successor. The silver lining is that
the New York Times reported Walter may only be an interim
appointment. Then the dark clouds of injustice reappear: Atop
the list of Walter’s potential replacements are Khuzami, of all
people, and  Richard Ketchum , Schapiro’s replacement as CEO of
Finra. Also mentioned is one far-better choice:  Sallie Krawcheck , the well-respected former executive at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Bank of America Corp.  and Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  The idea that only one of Wall Street’s own can regulate
Wall Street is deeply disturbing. If Obama keeps Walter on or
appoints Khuzami or Ketchum, we would be better off blowing up
the SEC and starting over.  I still believe the best person to lead the SEC at this
moment remains former New York Governor  Eliot Spitzer . He would
fearlessly hold Wall Street accountable for its past sins, as he
did when he was New York State attorney general and as he now
does as a cable television host. (Disclosure: I am an occasional
guest on his show.)  We need an SEC head who can inspire a new generation of
investors to believe the  capital markets  are no longer rigged
and that Wall Street cannot just capture every one of its
Washington regulators.  (William D. Cohan, the author of “Money and Power: How
Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the World,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. He was formerly an investment banker at Lazard
Freres, Merrill Lynch and JPMorgan Chase, against which he lost
an arbitration case over his dismissal. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 