-- Starbucks Makes Pledge to Build U.K. Public Trust on Tax Affairs
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-12-02T14:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/starbucks-makes-pledge-to-build-u-k-public-trust-on-tax-affairs.html
Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s biggest
coffee-shop operator, pledged to build public trust in the U.K.
after lawmakers criticized the firm for not paying any
corporation tax for the last three years.  The firm is in talks with the U.K. Treasury over its tax
affairs and will release details of the discussions this week,
the Seattle-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Starbucks has complied with all U.K. tax laws and is committed
to the country for the long term, it said.  “We have listened to feedback from our customers and
employees, and understand that to maintain and further build
public trust we need to do more,” Starbucks said. “As part of
this we are looking at our tax approach in the U.K.”  Corporations including Starbucks,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  have come under attack from British lawmakers and
protestors for using complex accounting methods to minimize  tax
liabilities in the U.K. while running large operations in the
country. The government will invest in the part of the tax
office that tackles evasion by multinational companies,
Chancellor George Osborne said today.  “I completely understand people’s anger when they see
people not paying their fair share of taxes,” Osborne said in
an interview with BBC Television’s “Andrew Marr Show” today.
“But we have got to make sure we have taxes that don’t drive
businesses out.”  Starbucks paid no income taxes on revenue of 1.2 billion
pounds ($1.94 billion) over the past three years by using intra-
company transfers and loans to record a loss for its British
business, Reuters reported Oct. 15, citing company filings.
There is no suggestion the Seattle-based company has broken the
law in the U.K., its biggest European market.  The coffee-shop operator eliminated a 5 million-pound
corporation tax bill by paying a royalty fee of 4.7 percent of
its U.K. revenue to its Dutch division for a license to use its
brand, the Sunday Times reported today, without saying where it
got the information.  Starbucks Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead angered U.K.
lawmakers last month by refusing to publicly disclose details of
a low-tax rate granted by the Netherlands at a parliamentary
hearing. In the past three years, the company has paid more than
160 million pounds in employee, national insurance and business
rates tax, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  