-- Stifel Lured by Cheap Stocks on Economy: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-12-02T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/stifel-lured-by-cheap-stocks-on-economy-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  in the U.S. are
trading at the smallest premium to emerging-market equities in
two months after slumping in November, a signal to Stifel
Nicolaus & Co. that they will rebound as the economy recovers.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in New York lost 1.2 percent in November, sliding
for the first time in four months, while the MSCI Emerging-
Markets Index climbed the same amount. The China-US gauge traded
for 15.7 times estimated profit on Nov. 27, a 37 percent premium
to the MSCI measure and the smallest advantage since Sept. 27,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The fact that Chinese stocks have been lagging the
emerging-market rally makes them more attractive than a lot of
the emerging markets,” Dave Lutz, head of exchange-traded fund
trading and strategy at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said Nov. 30 by
phone from Baltimore. “There’s the possibility of a rally this
month if the Chinese economy is picking up, as many think. If we
continue to see a pickup in economic data out of  China , sooner
or later these stocks will reflect their valuation.”  China’s  purchasing managers’ index  rose to the highest
level in seven months in November, the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing and the National Bureau of Statistics
said on Dec. 1. The index was 50.6 last month, compared with
50.2 in October and the 50.8 median of 28 analysts’ estimates. A
reading above 50 indicates expansion.  Growing Confidence  The data adds to signs China is emerging from its seven-
quarter slowdown, after factory production and retail sales
picked up and inflation slowed. Confidence in China’s economy is
at the highest level in more than a year on optimism the
nation’s new incoming leaders will provide a boost to the
financial climate, according to a Bloomberg investor poll.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., gained 0.8 percent to $37.15
on Nov. 30, leaving the ETF up 1 percent for November. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,416.18 for a
monthly advance of 0.3 percent, as lawmakers negotiated over the
U.S.  federal budget .  The Bloomberg China-U.S. index added 0.6 percent on Nov. 30
to 92.81, trimming the weekly decline to 0.9 percent.  New Oriental Education & Technology Group (EDU)  surged 20 percent
in November, the best performance in three months, as  Carson Block , short seller and founder of research firm Muddy Waters
LLC, which queried New Oriental’s units’ accounting in July,
said last week that it’s now too hard to short Chinese U.S.-
listed stocks. The company’s American depositary receipts
climbed to a four-month high of $20.96 on Nov. 29.  Block Retreats  Block said he lost interest in betting against Chinese
stocks and speculated that the government is protecting
fraudulent companies in an interview on Bloomberg Television
Nov. 27.  Hedge funds refraining from shorting Chinese stocks may
also boost the market this month, according to Stifel’s Lutz.
“A lot of hedge funds are probably trying to cover their China
shorts in overseas markets they can short to begin with,” he
said.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (600011) , China’s biggest
electricity producer, climbed 3.3 percent to $34.09 in New York
on Nov. 30, the highest closing price since September 2008. The
benchmark Chinese price index for coal used in power stations
slid 0.2 percent from a week earlier, according to the
Qinhuangdao Seaborne Coal Market website.  Huaneng’s ADRs, each representing 40 underlying shares in
the company, traded 0.5 percent above its Hong Kong stock, the
widest  premium  since Oct. 16.  Solar Rally  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  surged 4.7 percent to $1.80
on Nov. 30, capping a 40 percent weekly rally that was the most
among solar companies. Trading volumes were almost three times
the daily average over the past three months. Chief Executive
Officer Miao Liansheng said Nov. 28 he expects that the
manufacturer will be the world’s biggest panel supplier this
year.  Youku Tudou Inc. (YOKU) , owner of China’s most popular video
websites, gained 1.1 percent Nov. 30 to $17.06 as it reported
third-quarter revenue that beat analysts’ estimates. Sales
almost doubled to $79.9 million, beating the $73 million
projected by six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Youku, which  acquired  Tudou Holdings Ltd. in March, said it
achieved operating profitability for the first time in its
history and announced that the company will begin to monetize
its mobile traffic next year.  “This indicates that if it can make profit on a smaller
scale, the combined company will also become profitable as the
merger’s benefits take effect gradually,” Tian X. Hou, the
founder of T.H. Capital LLC, said in by phone from Beijing.
“The merged company can reach more audience and set higher
prices for advertisers.”  Qihoo Competition  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of China’s most popular search engine,
dropped 2.7 percent Nov. 30 to $96.31 as smaller rival  Qihoo 360
Technology Co. Ltd. (QIHU)  said its share of the Chinese Internet
market had grown to 10 percent, according to a report in the
Wall Street Journal. Baidu’s decline added to a monthly drop of
9.8 percent, the steepest since May.  Government figures due this weekend may also show November
industrial production and retail sales rose at the fastest pace
in eight months. China’s Commerce Minister Chen Deming said he
sees no issues with the nation reaching its 2012 economic growth
goal of 7.5 percent at a Nov. 28 financial forum in Beijing. The
 economy  grew 7.4 percent in the third quarter, the slowest pace
since the first three months of 2009.  ‘Valuation and Growth’  “Chinese stocks are still pricing in an economic hard
landing, while I don’t think there will be a hard landing,”
Arjun Jayaraman, who helps manage investments in emerging-market
equities at Causeway Capital Management LLC, which has $15
billion under management, said by phone Nov. 30 from Los
Angeles. “There are other  emerging markets  that are very cheap,
but none of them are growing at more than 6 percent growth rate
like China. So you get a decent mix of valuation and growth in
China.”  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  rallied 1.3 percent
on Nov. 30 to gain 0.4 percent in November, while the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed for the first time in five days, adding
0.9 percent. The gauge of domestic Chinese stocks lost 4.3
percent last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  