-- Stock Markets That Flummox Masses Do No One Any Good
-- B y   A m y   B u t t e
-- 2012-12-02T23:30:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/stocks-markets-that-flummox-masses-do-no-one-any-good.html
Want to know a dirty little secret?
Our stock markets no longer work.  They have grown so complex, fragmented and opaque that they
don’t serve their stated purpose. Rather than a place where
individual and professional investors can put a value on shares
and where companies go to raise capital, the markets today look
more like a video game. The trouble is, it’s one where only a
few understand all the rules.  Excessive complexity has costs. Individuals, wary of an
uneven playing field, may choose not to invest. Long-term
investors, frustrated by a market that doesn’t value their
participation, may take their trading to overseas venues or
alternative private networks. Companies, unaccustomed or
unprepared for the amount of work needed to go public, may look
for other forms of capital, such as debt or private equity.  Capital markets  work best when all the participants --
investors and companies -- come together in one place. Although
everyone may not have the same interests, at least there is an
understanding that a common set of rules exists.  Today, you need a super computer or a doctorate to
understand the rules of the stock market. So it isn’t surprising
that there is a perception that you, your neighbors and others
have no chance of getting a fair price in the market. For
example, why go to a store if you think there are two prices --
one for the regular person and one for those with inside
knowledge?  Old Days  Several forces have conspired to get us where we are today.
In the old days, it was pretty simple. There were a few types of
trades and only a couple of places where you could execute
them. There were orders at the market price, those with price
limits and good-till-canceled orders; you could go long in a
stock, betting on its appreciation, or short, expecting it to
fall; and you knew there was an investor on the other side of
the transaction, or a market maker (a buyer and seller of last
resort) if there wasn’t.  Today, there are more than 100 order types -- and when you
add on variables such as time of day, participant designation
and session type, it multiplies very quickly.  For example, the NYSE Arca Order Type  page  lists more than
30 classifications (before accounting for all the variables).
One kind of order adds liquidity to the market, another might be
filled or immediately killed, still another can have two
different price components, and so on.  Larry Tabb , an equity-
market expert and chief executive officer of Tabb Group LLC in
Westborough,  Massachusetts , estimates that there are more than
100 order types for each of the 13 U.S. exchanges, not to
mention the 50 or so dark pools, where trades are executed in
private venues.  In 2004, when the  New York Stock Exchange  first looked into
changing the order-handling rules, the objective was to
integrate the existing trading environment with new technology.
The market would be faster and more efficient, one that was fair
to the individual investor and attractive to larger
participants. In other words, an even playing field that moved
faster and cost less.  But the Securities and Exchange Commission, in its effort
to be viewed as independent from the NYSE and promote
competition among the different exchanges, permitted multiple
exceptions to the rules. In other words, small operators could
enter the market with different order-handling procedures. As
long as their volume remained at less than 10 percent of the
total trading in a security, alternative marketplaces could
operate with limited regulation.  Order Flow  In addition, brokerage houses used their influence to move
more order flow away from the  stock exchanges  and to their own
private trading sessions, or pools, of securities. Think of it
as a place to go for a “first look” or “private sale.” It
was less expensive and gave them a captive audience for their
best customers. Order flow no longer went straight to one
centralized marketplace. This reduced transaction fees and
increased efficiency for those that had access to it.
Unfortunately, it was only the beginning of fragmentation.  Technology advances continued, fueling the rise of high-
frequency trading, which exploits discrepancies in prices of
different exchanges that might last for less than a 1,000th of a
second. Order-handling rules became so complicated that few
people could understand what each change meant. By trying to be
more technology-friendly and open to all participants, the
exchanges and the SEC lost control. We now have hundreds of
mini-markets within markets.  The pendulum has swung too far. The exchanges are fighting
for their survival. They must react to the demands of their best
customers -- large brokerage houses and high-frequency-trading
firms -- and have less influence than they did a decade ago to
change the markets. In 2004, more than 80 percent of  market
volume  was controlled by less than 20 percent of the
participants. Today, high-frequency traders alone control more
than 50 percent of the volume.  By allowing markets to descend into a mire of complexity,
the SEC has abdicated its core values and  mandate , which is “to
protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient
markets, and facilitate capital formation,” according to the
mission statement on the agency’s website.  When only firms with the most advanced technology have an
advantage, the markets aren’t fair. When market participants can
no longer understand order types, the markets aren’t orderly.
When there is no cost to using capacity without making actual
trades, as high-frequency firms do, the markets aren’t
efficient.  The SEC needs to simplify the markets. It could start by
mandating a limit to the types of orders allowed, say, no more
than 10. The agency also should draft a rule book that we can
all read and understand.  To contain the explosion in trading volume, the SEC should
require that traders pay a  transaction fee  for both trades and
capacity. Right now, there is no limit to the number of
“looks” at the order flow for high-frequency traders, who then
can craft their strategies with advance knowledge of what other
participants are doing. Such fees alone would help to return the
markets to a place where capital formation, not just high-speed
arbitrage, is the primary objective.  Here’s one more suggestion: Require that the SEC be able to
explain market structure and order types to a high-school
senior. It isn’t a test that the agency can afford its students
to fail.  (Amy Butte is the former chief financial officer of the  New
York  Stock Exchange. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg View.  To contact the writer of this article:
 amy@amybutteliebowitz.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  