-- Swan Says Australia Growth May Have Eased as RBA Weighs Rate Cut
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-12-02T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/swan-says-australia-growth-may-have-eased-as-rba-weighs-rate-cut.html
Growth in  Australia , the world’s
biggest exporter of iron ore and coal, may have slowed last
quarter as commodity prices fell, Treasurer Wayne Swan said
before a government report on gross domestic product this week.  “We shouldn’t be surprised to see growth moderate from its
above-trend pace in the first half of the year given the impact
of difficult global conditions and the sharp decline in
commodity prices,” Swan said yesterday in his weekly economic
note. A high local currency and consumers putting off purchases
have also pressured parts of the economy, he said.  Swan gave his assessment two days before the nation’s
central bank board meets to decide monetary policy for the final
time this year. GDP probably expanded 3.1 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30 from a year earlier, according to the  median
estimate  of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. That’s
slower than an annual growth rate of about 4 percent in the
first half of the year.  The Bureau of Statistics is scheduled to release figures on
October retail sales today, the current-account balance for the
third quarter on Dec. 4, GDP data on Dec. 5 and its monthly
employment report for November the day after.  Iron ore  prices plunged to a three-year low in September,
crimping export returns after waning demand from  China ,
Australia’s biggest trading partner. The Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development scaled back its 2013 growth
outlook for Australia last month, moderating its forecast to 3
percent, down from 3.7 percent projected in May.  ‘Solid’ Foundation  “Despite the challenges, it’s important to remember our
economy remains resilient,” Swan said. “The pipeline of
investment -- along with our low unemployment, contained
inflation and lower interest rates -- provides a rock-solid
foundation for our economy in the face of continuing global
headwinds.”  Australia’s economy was galvanized during a global slowdown
by a Chinese-led demand for commodities. While commodity prices
have retreated from all-time highs, the value of committed
resource projects has increased to a record of A$268 billion
($279 billion), according to a report last week from the Bureau
of Resources and Energy Economics.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, last
week said it’s continuing an iron ore expansion in Australia’s
Pilbara region. The Melbourne-based company currently has $22
billion projects in execution.  Two-Speed Economy  Investment in mining and energy industries is offsetting
Australia’s manufacturers and retailers, which are battling
headwinds of an elevated Australian dollar and restrained
consumer spending.  The currency has advanced 16.2 percent against the U.S.
dollar since the end of 2009, making it the biggest gainer among
the Group of 10 tracked by Bloomberg.  The Reserve Bank of Australia meets Dec. 4 to decide
interest-rate policy, and 19 of 28 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News predict a 0.25 percentage-point reduction in the
overnight cash rate target to 3 percent. Traders last week were
pricing in a 90 percent chance RBA Governor Glenn Stevens and
his board will lower rates.  After five rate cuts totaling 1.5 percentage points from
November 2011 to October, the central bank left the rate
unchanged at 3.25 percent at its Nov. 6 meeting while
considering “further easing may be appropriate in the period
ahead,” according to minutes of the gathering released Nov. 20.  Private credit rose 0.1 percent in October, the weakest
since June 2011, an RBA report showed Nov. 30.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard yesterday announced a plan to
rein in costs of investments in electricity infrastructure,
designed to result in reduced power bills by an average of A$250
per household annually.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  