-- Syrian Jets Bomb Damascus Suburbs to Keep Rebels From Advancing
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-12-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/syrian-jets-bomb-damascus-neighborhoods-to-halt-rebel-advances.html
At least 10 people were killed
yesterday when Syrian fighter jets bombed suburbs around
Damascus as the government sought to keep rebels from the city’s
center.  Government planes carried out two air strikes in Daraya and
rocket attacks hit the nearby town of Deir al-Asafir, east of
the capital, the Voice of America reported, citing the U.K.-
based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights .  Soldiers also fought with rebels in areas such as Idlib
province in northwestern  Syria , the Observatory said in an e-
mail.  Ten people were killed and dozens wounded, according to the
Observatory. The Local Coordination Committee, an opposition
group, said in an e-mail that Syrian security forces killed at
least 132 people across the country yesterday, including 50 in
and around Damascus.  President Bashar al-Assad’s military has failed to prevent
rebels from overrunning army bases across the country and taking
heavy weapons. Fighters struggling to topple the government have
seized mainly Sunni Muslim towns and suburbs stretching from the
northeast outskirts of Damascus to the southwest of the capital.  Assad and most of his top officials come from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam. The majority of Syria’s
population and many leaders of the uprising are  Sunni Muslims .  War Deaths  Syria’s 20-month civil war has resulted in at least 40,000
deaths, the Observatory said. The toll rises by about 150 a day
as opposition forces seek to oust the government.  Fighting near Damascus International Airport on Nov. 29
prompted airlines to cancel flights to and from Syria, and the
hub was closed for a time as troops clashed with rebels on the
main road leading there, Al Arabiya television reported.  Syrian communication services resumed Dec. 1 after all
 Internet traffic  was shut off on Nov. 29.  Syria’s official news agency reported that a car bomb
yesterday killed at least 15 people in Homs, in central Syria,
according to the Voice of America.  The Syrian  air force  also launched air strikes in the
northern city of Aleppo, the Observatory reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  