-- Vietnam Says China Must Avoid Trade Weapon in Maritime Spat
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-12-03T06:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/vietnam-says-china-must-avoid-trade-weapon-in-maritime-disputes.html
Vietnam said  China  should avoid using
trade as a weapon in maritime disagreements after diplomatic
tensions led to a slump in exports from  Japan  when Chinese
consumers boycotted the goods of its Asian neighbor.  “Economic force should not be applied in the case of
settlement of territorial disputes,” which should be addressed
through international law, Deputy Foreign Minister Pham Quang Vinh said in a Nov. 28 interview in Hanoi. He said he had
“observed” Japan’s conflict with China. Japan reported last
month that its exports to China tumbled 12 percent.  China’s emergence as the largest export destination for
markets from Japan to South Korea offers it a potential lever as
frictions escalate over such claims as the Diaoyu, or Senkaku,
islands in the  East China Sea  and the Spratlys in the  South
China Sea , which are estimated to hold energy reserves.
Vietnamese officials plan to meet Dec. 12 with Southeast Asian
counterparts to discuss ways of addressing conflicts with China.  Vinh said his nation was open to exploiting jointly oil and
gas in areas that Vietnam claims and that lie outside its
exclusive economic zone. He said it “cannot accept” any move
by China National Offshore Oil Corp., China’s biggest offshore
oil and gas producer, to tap resources in areas with rival
claims. An exclusive economic zone refers to an area of
sovereignty stretching 200 nautical miles from a country’s
coastal baseline, according to the United Nations  Convention  on
the Law of the Sea.  Passport Flap  Asked about a new Chinese passport that includes a map
asserting sovereignty over regions under contention, Vinh said
that Vietnam has issued separate visas for Chinese citizens with
such documents, rather than stamp them directly, averting the
risk of implying recognition of China’s claims.  “That’s not a long-term solution,” Vinh, who has served
at the ministry for 32 years and oversees Southeast Asian
affairs, said in the interview. “The long-term solution is to
not recognize that nine-dotted line” in the passport, he said,
referring to the boundary China uses to mark its territorial
claims in the South China Sea.  China’s neighbors have rejected its map of the South China
Sea, one of the world’s busiest sea corridors. To the north, a
move by Japan to tighten its hold on the Senkaku Islands region
earlier this year sparked a Chinese consumer backlash that saw
the biggest slide in  Toyota Motor Corp.’s (7203)  production in the
country in at least a decade.  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and  Nissan Motor
Co. (7201)  cut their full-year profit forecasts by a fifth.  ‘Acutely Aware’  “The Vietnamese are acutely aware of the potential for
China to adversely affect Vietnam’s economy,” said Jonathan
 London , assistant professor at the  City University of Hong
Kong ’s Department of Asian and International Studies. Vietnam
and the  Philippines  are “busily forming a smaller group of
like-minded countries in Southeast  Asia  -- whether or not that
can be paired with the U.S. Pacific pivot and Japan’s increasing
wariness of Chinese expansion remains to be seen.”  China was Vietnam’s largest economic partner in 2011, with
bilateral trade totaling $36 billion, excluding figures for  Hong
Kong , according to preliminary data from Vietnam’s  General
Statistics Office  -- an increase from $27 billion a year
earlier.  Vietnam’s  economy  is set to grow at its slowest pace in 13
years in 2012 after policy makers tightened credit to stem
inflation. Gross domestic product may rise 5.5 percent in 2013,
little changed from this year, Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung
indicated in a Nov. 28 interview.  India Unconcerned  Not all China’s neighbors share Vietnam’s concern at China
using commerce as a foreign-policy tool. Indian Foreign Minister
Salman Khurshid said Chinese use of economic power to push its
goals in Asia was acceptable as long as it didn’t break laws.  “Don’t we all use our economic muscle?” Khurshid said in
an interview in his office in New Delhi on Nov. 30. “What is
economic muscle for if not to use it to create an advantage for
your people? So long as it’s not illegitimate, so long as it
doesn’t violate principles of international law.”  Exploration for oil and gas resources in the disputed
waters have led to clashes. Last year, Chinese ships cut the
cables of a survey vessel doing work for Vietnam. Earlier this
year, a conflict over fishing rights near a reef known as
Scarborough Shoal in the Philippines and Huangyan Island in
China turned into a monthlong standoff as both countries
dispatched ships to the region.  Energy Reserves  China accounted for 71 percent of global energy consumption
growth in 2011, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s 2012  Statistical Review of
World Energy .  Brent crude oil prices surged from about $24 a barrel at
the turn of the century to a record high of $147.50 a barrel in
2008, as rapid economic growth in China helped fuel energy
demand. Brent oil for January settlement advanced 29 cents to
$111.55 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
2:09 p.m. Singapore time.  The South China Sea may hold 213 billion barrels of oil, or
80 percent of Saudi Arabia’s reserves, according to Chinese
studies cited in 2008 by the  U.S. Energy Information
Administration . China, the world’s second-largest economy,
claims “indisputable sovereignty” over most of the sea,
including blocks off Vietnam that  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and Russia’s
 Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  are exploring.  China’s government last week reaffirmed its commitment to
freedom of navigation in the South China Sea after Philippine
President  Benigno Aquino  called for it to clarify a report that
police would start interdicting ships in disputed waters.  American Presence  “China attaches importance to freedom of navigation in the
South China Sea and at the moment there’s no problem in this
regard,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said on Nov. 30,
adding that issues should be resolved through “friendly”
consultations. The official Xinhua news agency reported on Nov.
27 that authorities in Hainan Island province empowered police
to seize and expel ships that illegally enter its waters.  China’s emergence as an economic and military power has
prompted the U.S. to increase its presence in the Asia-Pacific
region, working with countries that express anxiety about the
prospect of Chinese dominance. A delegation of Vietnamese
officials visited the U.S. aircraft carrier  George Washington  as
it passed through international waters near the Southeast Asian
nation in October, Vietnam News reported Oct. 22.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  last week backed efforts
by Southeast Asian countries to push for a code of conduct with
China in the waters.  “You can’t, in the 21st century, permit anyone’s claims to
territory that creates instability, tensions and potentially
conflict to be unanswered if you’re going to try to maintain
peace and security,” she said at a forum in  Washington  Nov. 29,
referring to China.  Vietnamese Port  Vietnam will make Cam Ranh Bay port, a former military hub
for U.S. forces during the war with Vietnam, available to
vessels from all countries, Deputy Minister Vinh said. So far,
only non-combat ships can be docked there, a U.S. defense
official told  Bloomberg News  in June. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  stopped at Cam Ranh Bay in June, becoming the highest-
ranking American official to visit it since the war.  “We will build Cam Ranh port into a technical and
logistics services port,” Vinh said. “It will serve certainly
first the Vietnamese. But the policy of the government of
Vietnam is” to make the facilities available to “all other
countries also, if they so need the services and logistics,” he
said.  The deputy foreign minister said “The management of
territorial disputes -- and not to have those disputes escalate
into tensions and conflicts in the region -- will be very
important, not just for the countries concerned, but for the
whole world.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  