-- Wal-Mart, Sears Must Put Out Factory Fires in Bangladesh
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-12-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/wal-mart-sears-must-put-out-fires-in-bangladesh-factories-view.html
The fire at  Bangladesh ’s Tazreen
garment factory might not have killed more than 100 people if
the facility had had half as many fire escapes as there have
been evasions of responsibility for the disaster.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and  Sears  Holdings Corp. said they
 didn’t know  their clothes were being made in the firetrap. Sean Combs’ clothing brand blamed a middleman for choosing the
factory. Tazreen Fashion Ltd.’s owner, Tuba Group, pointed to a
 certificate  of safety compliance from a nonprofit group, but the
group said that document is  bogus . Government officials laid
blame for the deaths on arsonists supposedly out to undermine
Bangladesh’s position as the second largest exporter of clothing
after  China .  Each of these parties bears a share of responsibility for
the tragedy. Among them, however, retailers from wealthy
countries have the greatest wherewithal to ensure that the
factories they hire don’t sacrifice safety to the bottom line.
They should force change -- for their own sake as well as for
the workers on whom their profits depend.  It would be nice to think that the government of Bangladesh
might start enforcing safety standards in factories. More than
500 workers have died in fires there in the past six years. Yet
Bangladesh, one of the  least developed  countries on earth, can’t
afford the inspectors. Its government also fears that if safety
improvements increase costs, retailers will abandon Bangladesh
for  Pakistan .  It would also be convenient to think that Bangladeshi
factory owners would take on the costs of such things as
training staff for emergencies, building fire exits and
monitoring shop floors to ensure that paths to those doors are
kept clear. The reality is that given the competition for
orders, these businesses generally operate on small profit
margins that leave little room for such expenses.  Making fire-safety improvements in a shop like Tazreen
might cost $1.7 million over two years, according to an estimate
by  Worker Rights Consortium , an independent labor rights
monitoring group. That would probably have eaten up the Tuba
Group’s profit on its $35 million  annual revenue  from the
Tazreen factory.  A retailer, however, could pay a factory 2.5 percent more
to cover those costs and pass on the increase to consumers, who
would end up spending $20.50 for a sweatshirt instead of $20.
Clothes would still be one of the great bargains of our time.  Cheap manufacturing costs in Bangladesh and other
outsourcing centers have allowed consumers in importing
countries to save money on what they wear. In the U.S., women’s
clothing costs have fallen 7 percent since 1998; men’s have
dropped 8 percent. Considering that this change has come at the
expense of human lives, clothing has arguably become too cheap.  For years, retailers have said they were making conditions
safer through programs that rely on inspections by internal
auditors or auditors for hire. Yet factories keep burning. In
September, 289 people died in a Pakistani  factory inferno  just a
month after an auditor gave the shop a  clean bill of health .  The Fire and Building Safety Agreement proposed for
Bangladesh offers a way forward. An industry-labor
 collaboration , it would create an independent chief inspector to
execute a mandatory safety program. Audits that revealed hazards
would be made public, and the inspector’s recommended corrective
actions would be mandatory. Retailers would be required to pay
factories enough so that they could afford renovations and
training programs; retailers would also be barred from doing
business with noncompliant sites. These obligations would be
enforceable through the courts.  To have sufficient leverage over the factories, the program
is designed to go into effect only after four retailers have
signed on. So far, two have: German retailer Tchibo GmbH and PVH
Corp., the parent of brands including  Calvin Klein  and  Tommy
Hilfiger . Change would come fastest if the biggest players in
Bangladesh joined in, including Wal-Mart, Hennes & Mauritz AB,
 the Gap  Inc. and Inditex SA, owner of Zara.  Companies are reluctant to commit to higher costs, which is
short-sighted. PVH  initialed the deal  in March after learning
ABC News  would report  that Tommy Hilfiger had returned to doing
business with a factory in Bangladesh where 29 people died in a
2010 fire. Perhaps as much as the cost of ensuring worker
safety, that kind of publicity can hurt profits. More brands
will be similarly harmed if they don’t help re-engineer the
tinderbox that is the Bangladesh garment industry.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 