-- Zesco of Zambia Seeks $2 Billion in Debt From U.K., U.S.
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-12-03T11:20:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/zambian-power-utility-seeks-2-billion-from-u-k-u-s-investors.html
Zesco Ltd., Zambia’s state-owned
power utility, has sent managers to the U.K. and the U.S. in a
bid to raise as much as $2 billion in debt from investors,
Managing Director Cyprian Chitundu said.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. of  South Africa  is advising the
company, which met investors in London, Boston and  New York ,
Chitundu said in an interview on Nov. 29 in Livingstone, in the
south west of the country. It may also sell a Eurobond similar
to the $750 million raised by the government in September, he
said.  “We are probably talking $1 billion, probably even $2
billion,” Chitundu said on the sidelines of the Zambia
International Investment Forum.  Zesco plans to spend on average $1 billion a year over the
next five years as it seeks to end a power shortage that has led
to blackouts across  Africa ’s biggest copper producer, preventing
the  mining industry  from gaining the full benefit of higher
metal prices. The price of copper traded on the  London  Metal
Exchange has risen almost fivefold in the last decade.  Zambia operates hydropower plants on the Kafue River and at
the Kariba dam, which lies on the Zambezi River. The country has
about 1,970 megawatts of installed electricity generation
capacity, 99 percent of which comes from hydropower. It intends
to reduce this to 60 percent by 2015 with the introduction of
privately owned coal-fired plants, also reducing Zesco’s share
of the mix from over 90 percent this year. Most of the remainder
comes from imports.  Doubling Up  The southern African nation will double generation capacity
by around 2017 to remove the 250-megawatt peak shortfall it is
suffering this year and allow the economy to expand, Mines,
Energy and Water Resources Minister Yamfwa Mukanga said in a
Nov. 29 speech in Livingstone, which straddles the Victoria
Falls on the border with  Zimbabwe .  Zambia’s power shortage will disappear by January 2014,
when the Kariba North Bank expansion starts producing
electricity, Chitundu said.  Power prices need to rise to justify the expansion of
generation capacity, he said. Zesco applied to the  Energy
Regulation Board  on July 27 to increase tariffs by an average 26
percent. The regulator has yet to decide on the increase, which
was due to come into effect on Nov. 1.  “We’ve lost a lot of revenue,” because of the delayed
decision, said Bestty Phiri, a spokesman for Zesco. “We had
planned for it, and now all our plans are being put on ice,” he
said in the same interview. Phiri expects the regulator will
reach a decision by the end of the year.  No Decision  The Energy Regulation Board has no indication when it will
decide on the tariff, spokeswoman Agnes Phiri commented in an e-
mailed reply to questions. The regulator’s board appointed
George Chabwera chairman on Nov. 27. Chabwera is the managing
director and chairman of Associated Fire Services Ltd.  Zambia is rated B1 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
fourth-highest junk rating. Eskom Holdings SOC Ltd., the South
African power utility that’s rated four steps higher, last year
issued $1.75 billion of bonds maturing in January 2021. The
yield on the debt has fallen 156 basis points this year to 3.92
percent.  Zambia’s kwacha has declined 2.1 percent against the dollar
this year, trading at 5,230 by 12:01 p.m. in Lusaka.  Zesco’s management team has already visited London, talked
to investors in  Boston  on Nov. 29, and ended with meetings in
New York on Nov. 30, Chitundu said.  The company also plans to list on the Lusaka Stock Exchange
within two years, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Lusaka at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  