-- Zuma, Ramaphosa Are Favorites to Lead South Africa’s ANC
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-12-02T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-12-02/zuma-ramaphosa-are-favorites-to-lead-south-africa-s-anc.html
President  Jacob Zuma  won overwhelming
support for a second term as leader of  South Africa ’s ruling
 African National Congress , while tycoon Cyril Ramaphosa is the
frontrunner to become his deputy, party nomination results show.  Zuma won 81 percent of the votes for nomination as party
leader from six of the nine provinces, while his current deputy,
 Kgalema Motlanthe , took 19 percent, according to a tally of
results. Ramaphosa, a former labor leader, received 65 percent
support in the contest to become ANC vice president. The numbers
aren’t final because the 4,500 delegates at a Dec. 16-20
leadership conference may cast individual ballots free of
nomination preferences.  “Zuma will carry the nomination fairly easily,” Mari Harris, a Johannesburg-based political analyst at the Ipsos
Markinor research company, said in a Nov. 30 phone interview.
“Delegates are carefully selected. There is careful planning
and loading of the electoral colleges in the different
provinces.”  A former ANC intelligence operative, Zuma, 70, won control
of the party from  Thabo Mbeki  five years ago after graft charges
against him were withdrawn, and was appointed the nation’s
president in May 2009. He’s retained support within the ANC even
as his administration battles to cut a 26 percent unemployment
rate and contain the fallout of mining strikes that curbed
growth and contributed to two debt-rating downgrades.  ‘Strong Position’  “Zuma is in a relatively strong position countrywide to
remain in power,” Daniel Silke, author of “Tracking the
Future: Top Trends That Will Shape South Africa and the World,”
said in a Nov. 30 phone interview from  Cape Town . “Any
alternate candidate would need to be reasonably certain that he
stands a chance of defeating Zuma, otherwise his own political
career could come to a very sudden halt.”  Motlanthe, a 63-year-old former labor union leader, told
reporters in  Pretoria  on Nov. 30 that he’s “still agonizing”
over a decision whether to run against Zuma at the conference in
the central city of Bloemfontein.  Whatever his decision, Motlanthe faces the danger of being
dropped from the party leadership altogether. The provincial
nominations show him trailing both Zuma for party president and
Ramaphosa, who helped negotiate the end of apartheid and is now
South Africa’s second-richest black businessman, for vice
president.  KwaZula-Natal Base  Ramaphosa, 60, hasn’t said if he will accept the
nomination, while Motlanthe may yet boost his 19 percent share
of the vote to retain his position if he declines to challenge
Zuma for the top job. Whoever wins will be in a position to be
the nation’s president when Zuma’s second five-year term ends in
2019.  Zuma gained the edge in the nomination race by winning
unanimous support in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal, which
will have the biggest number of voting delegates at the ANC
conference. His victory was probably sealed when he received 65
percent support in the Eastern Cape, the second-largest ANC
region.  The North West, Western Cape and Limpopo provinces failed
to meet a Nov. 30 party deadline to make nominations because of
wrangling over who was eligible to vote. Even without those
provinces, Zuma has already secured support for his nomination
from more than 60 percent of the total party electorate, and
Ramaphosa 48 percent, according to the partial results.  The release of the Eastern Cape results was delayed by
disputes over whether 80 branch representatives were properly
elected. Some delegates known to oppose Zuma were disqualified
from making nominations, according to Motlanthe supporter Zama
Siziba.  ‘Disqualified’ Voters  “I was sidelined because I want a change in leadership and
that’s not what the provincial leaders want,” Siziba said in a
Dec. 1 interview at the Eastern Cape’s conference in the town of
Alice. “The national conference cannot be legitimate when there
are people like me who have been disqualified.”  The ANC’s next leader is almost guaranteed the national
presidency because the party controls almost two-thirds of seats
in Parliament, which elects the president.  The mining strikes and concerns about political stability
before the ANC election have contributed to the rand plunging
9.2 percent against the dollar this year, the second-worst
performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Africa’s biggest economy grew an annualized 1.2 percent in
the third quarter, the slowest since a recession in 2009 and
down from 3.4 percent in the previous three months, Statistics
South Africa said on Nov. 27.  “I think investors are assuming that Zuma will be the
presidential nominee and will be in the presidential position
until 2019,” Phoenix Kalen, a strategist at the Royal Bank of
 Scotland  in  London , said in a Nov. 30 phone interview. “It’s
not going to be necessarily negative, but it’s not going to
provide the market with any positive news as would happen
potentially with, say,  Cyril Ramaphosa  coming to lead.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net 
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  