-- 
Gillard ‘Not Going Anywhere’ Amid Resignation Call Reports

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-09-03T02:50:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/-i-m-not-going-anywhere-australia-s-gillard.html
Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard said she wouldn’t resign after reports that leaders of
her  Labor party  urged her to do so. Even if she did, it wouldn’t
revive the party’s record-low poll ratings, analysts said.  “I will be leading the  Labor Party  till the next
election,” Gillard, the country’s first female prime minister,
told reporters in Canberra today after News Ltd. newspapers
yesterday said that senior government figures it didn’t identify
urged her to quit. Her remarks were broadcast on  Sky News .  Dumping Gillard would leave Labor with its prospective
third prime minister since 2007, when it ended 11 years of rule
by former Prime Minister  John Howard . Gillard’s public standing
has eroded as Labor enacted unpopular steps to address climate
change and as the nation’s mining boom spurs currency gains that
hollow out other areas of the economy.  “The party would not get any points if it just keeps
changing leaders,” said Rick Kuhn, a political analyst at the
 Australian National University  in Canberra. “And even if they
did, it wouldn’t reverse their fortunes.”  Lawmakers are considering a plan in which Foreign Minister
Kevin Rudd, whom Gillard replaced in a late-night party coup in
June 2010, would become leader and Defense Minister  Stephen Smith  would become treasurer, the News Ltd. newspapers said.
Rudd is currently recovering from heart surgery.  Lose Faith  “If the Labor party starts chopping and changing leaders,
both markets and the voting public will lose their final faith
in Labor,” said  Angus Gluskie , a  fund manager  at White Funds
Management in Sydney. “With the party’s hold on power looking
less certain, investors may start to speculate that a change of
government could be generally favorable.”  Australia ’s benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index had its biggest
drop in two weeks, falling 1.5 percent.  Gillard, 49, won the leadership after the party dumped Rudd
because of poor poll ratings amid a battle with miners like  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  over his plans for a 40 percent tax on resource
profits and after he reneged on establishing a carbon plan.  A  High Court  of Australia decision this week that
overturned a planned refugee agreement with Malaysia was the
latest setback for Gillard, whose  popularity  in Newspoll surveys
has fallen 19 percentage points since she started her job. She
has also had to defend Labor lawmaker Craig Thomson, who faces
allegations he used a union credit card before he entered
parliament to pay for prostitutes and whose departure would
threaten the government.  Labor Support Down  Labor, criticized over its suspension in June of live
cattle exports to Indonesia, is struggling to garner support for
a planned carbon tax, a A$36 billion ($39 billion) national
high-speed wireless network and mining levy.  Labor’s support fell one point to 43 percent and the
opposition Liberal-National coalition’s rose the same amount to
57 percent, according to a Newspoll survey of 1,147 people
between Aug. 19 and 21 published in the Australian newspaper.
The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  “She is safe as there is no obvious alternative, despite
reports about  Kevin Rudd ,” said Rodney Smith, a political
analyst at Sydney University.  The former labor lawyer Gillard scaled back the mining tax
and, less than a month after winning the leadership, called a
general election. The August 2010 poll was the closest in 70
years, leading to Gillard negotiating a power-sharing
arrangement with four non-party lawmakers to form a government.  ‘Misleading’ Headlines  “I’m not going anywhere, I’ve got a lot of things to do,”
Gillard told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio in Brisbane
yesterday. “I’m the best person to do this job and I’ll
continue to do it.  Lawmakers dismissed the newspaper reports.  ‘‘Those headlines are misleading -- there is a suggestion
that  Julia Gillard  doesn’t have authority,” Labor lawmaker Joel Fitzgibbon told ABC radio. “I would suggest to you that if she
lacked authority, people who were quoted in that article would
be putting their names to those quotes.”  Assistant Treasurer  Bill Shorten , named in the Sydney
Morning Herald newspaper as a leadership contender, told
reporters in Victoria state that Gillard had his support and was
“the right person at the right time” for the job.  ‘Governing Well’  Environment Minister Tony Burke said he had confidence in
Gillard and that the next election was two years away. Burke,
speaking to Seven Network television, said Labor was “governing
and governing well.”  Gillard’s administration has also seen rising concern that
parts of Australia’s economy are buckling under the pressure of
currency appreciation and the developed world’s highest
borrowing costs. Australia’s central bank raised the benchmark
 interest rate  seven times to November 2010, to 4.75 percent.  Manufacturing has slumped to its weakest in more than two
years, according to an Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers index.  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL)  last month
announced plans to cut about 1,000 jobs and shut a furnace
because of a second-half loss due to high raw-material costs and
the local dollar’s surge of about 30 percent against its U.S.
counterpart in the past two years.  The  exchange rate  has appreciated as the nation’s biggest
mining expansion in a century transforms the economy, a
consequence of  China ’s demand for  iron ore  and coal to propel
its development. While manufacturers have been hurt, the
resources boom helped Australia avoid a recession during the
global slump of 2008.  “A big issue in our country today is our patchwork economy
-- people see the mining sector, mining leaping ahead whilst
manufacturing is bearing the burden of a strong Australian
dollar,” Gillard said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  