-- 
H&R Block Loss Widens 36 Percent After Posting Asset Sale Charge

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-09-01T20:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/h-r-block-loss-widens-36-percent-after-posting-asset-sale-charge.html
H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the biggest U.S. tax
preparer, reported its fiscal first-quarter loss widened 36
percent as the company recorded charges related to the sale of
its consulting unit.  The net loss from continuing operations was $173.4 million,
or 57 cents a share, compared with a loss of $127.6 million, or
40 cents, a year earlier, the Kansas City, Missouri-based
company said today in a statement. The adjusted loss was 37
cents a share, beating the average estimate of a 41-cent loss
according to nine analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Tax-services
revenue fell to $91.4 million from $91.6 million.  H&R Block recorded an after-tax charge of $62.2 million, or
20 cents a share, related to the sale of its RSM McGladrey
consulting unit, according to the statement. The company agreed
to sell the subsidiary last month to refocus on its core tax
business, Chief Executive Officer William C. Cobb, 55, said. The
firm is aiming to recapture market share from competitors such
as  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s TurboTax software.  “We are confident that we can continue driving organic
growth in our core business by attracting and retaining more
clients,” Cobb said in the statement.  Revenue fell 2.5 percent to $267.6 million in the quarter
ended July 31 as revenue from business services dropped 4.3
percent to $167.3 million, according to the statement. A pretax
loss of $169.5 million in the tax-services unit included a
litigation charge of $15 million, according to the statement.  RSM Sale  H&R Block agreed on Aug. 23 to sell RSM to McGladrey &
Pullen LLP, which has been providing accounting services to
clients of the consulting unit. The company purchased the assets
of RSM for about $240 million from McGladrey & Pullen in 1999.  Most of H&R Block’s annual profit is reported in the fiscal
fourth quarter, which corresponds with the U.S. tax season
ending April 15. Net income from continuing operations fell 4.9
percent in that quarter to $658.2 million, or $2.14 a share. The
company typically reports losses for the first half of the
fiscal year.  In December, U.S. regulators barred HSBC Holdings Plc from
offering tax-refund anticipation loans, called RALs, prompting
the London-based bank to end an exclusive contract with H&R
Block three years early. RALs are secured by a customer’s
expected tax refund, with annualized interest rates that may run
as high as 124 percent at some firms.  H&R Block’s effort to introduce new products to replace
revenue from RALs was set back in May when the U.S.  Justice
Department  sued the company to stop its proposed purchase of 2SS
Holdings Inc., developer of TaxAct digital tax-preparation
products. The Justice Department said the companies’ merger
would stifle competition and raise prices in the expanding
market for consumer-tax preparation software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 