-- 
Ackermann Spurns Lagarde Call for Mandatory European Bank Recapitalization

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 
2011-09-01T08:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ackermann-rejects-lagarde-s-drive-for-mandatory-increases-in-bank-capital.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive
Officer  Josef Ackermann  rejected a call by International
Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  to force
European banks to increase capital levels.  “What’s been demanded from well-known figures, that banks
face mandatory recapitalizations, I think nothing at all of
that,” he said yesterday at a conference in Berlin. Ackermann
is also chairman of the  Institute of International Finance , a
Washington-based lobby group for the global banking industry.  Lagarde, speaking to international finance officials and
economists in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , on Aug. 27, said European
banks may require “urgent” recapitalization to prevent the
region’s debt crisis from infecting more countries and to avoid
a liquidity crisis. The European Banking Authority proposed
giving the European Financial Stability Facility, the fund used
to backstop euro-region governments, the power to put capital
directly into banks, stoking concerns about the health of the
continent’s lenders.  “The risks are back,” Ackermann, 63, said last night.
Banks, particularly in the dollar area, “have become hesitant”
to provide liquidity, and long-term financing on the markets is
“difficult at the moment,” he said. Lenders in countries
considered risky are very dependent on refinancing from the
 European Central Bank .  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank is “more strongly
capitalized than ever before,” and is having “absolutely no
problems” with refinancing, he said.  Trust ‘Ebbing’  The Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index of
46 stocks declined 27 percent this year. The difference between
the three-month euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, and the
overnight indexed swap rate, a measure of banks’ reluctance to
lend to each other, was at 0.64 percentage point today, within 6
basis points of the widest gap since April 2009.  “Trust between banks is ebbing and the  interbank market  is
partially dried up and some banks would be in a tight liquidity
situation without the ECB,” Wolfgang Kirsch, chief executive
officer of DZ Bank AG, Germany’s largest cooperative lender,
said in a speech in  Frankfurt  yesterday. “Spreads on financial
firms have risen above levels we saw in the Lehman crisis,” he
said, referring to the collapse of the New York-based investment
bank in September 2008 and the subsequent credit crunch.  The damage to the balance sheets of euro-region banks from
holding Irish, Greek, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish and Belgian
sovereign debt may amount to as much as 200 billion euros ($286
billion), according to one estimate by IMF staff, the Financial
Times reported, citing two unidentified IMF officials.  ‘Stable Growth’  A draft of the IMF’s Global Financial Stability Report,
which uses credit default swap prices to estimate the market
value of the six countries’ government debt, has put IMF
officials and European authorities at loggerheads, with the ECB
and euro-zone governments dismissing the document as partial and
misleading, the newspaper said.  Under its current setup, the EFSF can only grant funds to
governments. The German government and financial regulator Bafin
oppose giving EFSF the power to directly inject capital into
banks. The Association of German Banks, which represents
commercial lenders including Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank AG,
also rejected the idea, Die Welt reported yesterday, citing an
interview with general manager  Michael Kemmer . He said the
country’s lenders are “well capitalized.”  Ackermann also backed the German government’s opposition to
joint euro bonds, saying they’re not a “silver bullet.”
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  on Aug. 20 ruled out
issuing common bonds as a cure for the debt crisis, saying any
joint borrowing should wait until European economies and budgets
are better aligned.  The Deutsche Bank chief said he doesn’t expect the global
economy to slip into a recession.  Germany  and most other European countries will have
“stable growth and I believe we also won’t slip back into
recession in the U.S.,” he said. “So this spreading of panic
and fear-mongering is simply mistaken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg;
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  