-- 
Barclays Sued for $67.4 Million by Trustee Liquidating Former Madoff Firm

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/madoff-trustee-irving-picard-sues-barclays-for-67-4-million.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and five other
companies were sued by the trustee liquidating the money
management firm of convicted  Ponzi scheme  mastermind  Bernard Madoff , according to court records.  Trustee Irving Picard, who is seeking to recover money
transferred from Madoff’s company, sued Barclays yesterday for
$67.4 million. Picard also sued Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings
Inc. for $54.3 million, Korea Exchange Bank for $33.6 million,
Cathay Life Insurance Co. for $41.7 million, Banque Privee
Espirito Santo SA for $11.4 million and  Banca Carige SpA (CRG)  for
$10.5 million.  All the transfers to the entities sued were derived from
investment made with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
by Fairfield Sentry, a Madoff feeder fund run by Fairfield
Greenwich Group, Picard said.  The funds the trustee seeks to recover from Barclays were
“transfers of customer property collectively made to the
Barclays defendants,” Picard wrote in the complaint against the
London-based bank.  Picard has sued investors, banks and others he claims
profited from Madoff or should have known of his fraud, seeking
a total of about $100 billion. He has raised more than $8.6
billion, or almost half the $17.3 billion in principal Madoff
investors who have submitted claims for losses in the fraud,
including a $1 billion settlement with hedge-fund firm Tremont
Group Holdings Inc., announced July 28.  Interim Reports  Picard files an interim report with the court for six-month
periods. The next one, for the period ending Sept. 30, will be
filed during the fourth quarter.  Giles Croot, a Barclays spokesman, declined to immediately
comment on the lawsuit.  Alan Lee, a Cathay Financial spokesman, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment yesterday after regular
business hours in Taipei  Roberto de Vito, an asset manager with Banque Privee
Espirito Santo, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the lawsuit that was sent after business hours in
Lausanne, Switzerland.  A message sent to  Korea Exchange Bank (004940) ’s press office after
Seoul business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit against it
wasn’t immediately returned.  Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc., based in  Tokyo ,
couldn’t immediately be reached for comment yesterday.  Banca Carige  Banca Carige, based in Genova,  Italy , couldn’t immediately
be reached for comment on the lawsuit against it.  Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence for running
the biggest Ponzi scheme in history.  The cases are Picard v. Barclays Bank (Suisse) SA,
11-ap-02569, Picard v. Cathay Life Insurance Co., 11-ap-2568,
Picard v. Banca Carige SpA, 11-ap-2570, Picard v. Banque Privee
Espirito Santo SA, 11-ap-2571, Picard v. Korea Exchange Bank,
11-ap-2572, Picard v. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc., 11-
ap-2573,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  