-- 
SIPC Faults District Judge for Tossing Claims Against HSBC in Madoff Case

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-09-01T11:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/madoff-trustee-faults-judge-for-tossing-claims-against-hsbc.html
The company that hired the
liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s firm faulted a U.S. district
judge for tossing about $9 billion in common-law claims against
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds, saying the case was
“wrongly decided.”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  New York  ruled July 28
that trustee  Irving Picard  can’t sue on behalf of customers or
the Madoff estate, using common-law claims against parties “who
allegedly violated a duty to Madoff Securities’ customers by
failing to detect Madoff’s fraud.” The trustee was free to
pursue bankruptcy claims, Rakoff ruled.  The Securities Investor Protection Corp., citing investor-
protection and other law, said Rakoff “erred” in finding the
trustee had only the powers available to a bankruptcy trustee,
and couldn’t sue on behalf of the estate. By contrast, the
trustee had an obligation to recover and distribute customer
property, it said in a filing in U.S. District Court in
 Manhattan  yesterday.  “The trustee has standing to bring his common law
claims,” SIPC said. The ruling contained errors and
“misunderstanding,” it said.  Picard appealed Rakoff’s ruling last week. SIPC made the
statements in court papers defending the trustee’s $19 billion
suit against JPMorgan Chase & Co. to the judge handling the
case, U.S. District Judge  Colleen McMahon . The second-biggest
U.S. bank asked McMahon last month to dismiss the case, citing
Rakoff’s ruling.  Bank’s ‘Assistance’  Picard’s suit blames JPMorgan, the con man’s banker, for
all losses suffered by all Madoff customers, saying the Ponzi
scheme would have collapsed earlier without the bank’s
“assistance.” In addition to the $19 billion in damages, he is
demanding return of $400 million allegedly taken out of the
Madoff firm, plus $500 million in “additional revenue.”  JPMorgan has denied wrongdoing.  Picard and his law firm, Baker & Hostetler LLP, have
collected about $179 million in fees for work since Madoff’s
2008 arrest. Madoff, 73, is serving a 150-year sentence in a
federal prison in North Carolina.  The case is Picard v.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , 1:11-cv-00913,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  