-- 
Lagardere Drops Most in More Than Two Years After Cutting Sales Forecast

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-09-01T10:26:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/lagardere-shares-fall-on-lower-sales-forecast-declining-first-half-profit.html
Lagardere SCA (MMB)  fell the most in more
than two years in Paris trading after  France ’s biggest publisher
said recurring media earnings will drop as much as 7 percent
this year on revised expectations for its sport unit.  First-half net income adjusted for some items declined 41
percent from a year earlier to 57 million euros ($82 million) as
tax charges tripled to 66 million euros, the Paris-based company
said yesterday in a statement after market close. The stock fell
as much as 16 percent to 20 euros today, the biggest intraday
drop since March 2009, and was down 9.5 percent as of 11:28 a.m.
The shares have plunged 30 percent this year.  Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere  is focusing on the
core domestic publishing business while also pushing into sports
management. Lagardere sold its international magazines unit,
which includes the non-French editions of Elle, to Hearst Corp.
in May for 651 million euros. The sale caused much of the higher
tax burden, and will contribute to a projected 5 to 7 percent
drop in recurring media earnings for the year, Chief Financial
Officer Dominique D’Hinnin said on a conference call yesterday.  “The main disappointment is the performance of the sports
division, which causes questions for the future,” Simon Wallis,
an analyst at ING Groep NV, said in a phone interview. “The cut
in the outlook is mainly due to the sport unit.”  Cricket Dispute  Without the sale of the international magazines unit and a
revised forecast for the company’s sports unit, recurring media
earnings before interest and taxes for 2011 would have risen
slightly, instead of falling 5 to 7 percent, on a constant
exchange basis, Lagardere said in the statement.  Net sales at the Lagardere Unlimited unit, which focuses on
sport and entertainment, grew 6.3 percent on a comparable basis
in the first half, thanks to the inclusion of World Sport
Group’s revenue from the Asian Football Cup event, it said.  The performance of the sport division was “weak” and
below expectations, Wallis said. UBS AG analyst Alastair Reid
said the “key miss” came from the sport division, which was
hurt by a dispute about media rights for Indian Premier League
cricket.  Revenue has been placed in an escrow account by an Indian
court until there is a resolution of litigation between
Lagardere’s World Sport Group unit and the Board of Control for
Cricket in  India  about revenue from the 2011 Indian Premier
League, the company said in the statement.  Canal Plus   Lagardere decided in March to delay the initial public
offering of its 20 percent stake in pay-TV operator Canal Plus
France, citing market volatility following the earthquake in
 Japan  that month. The IPO was planned after Lagardere failed to
reach a deal to sell the stake to  Vivendi SA (VIV) , which owns the
rest of Canal Plus. D’Hinnin said yesterday it still plans to
sell its stake when conditions permit, “whether it’s the market
or Vivendi” were it to be interested.  Arnaud Lagardere has also pledged to eventually dispose of
the publisher’s 7.5 percent stake in European Aeronautic Defense
& Space Co., the parent company of planemaker Airbus, a legacy
of its past as a defense contractor. The CEO has said any exit
will have to be discussed first with the French government, and
will await a clear delivery timeline for the A350 wide-body jet.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  