-- 
Agency May Have Violated Law With Microsoft Contract, Judge Says

-- B y   L e a h   N y l e n
-- 
2011-09-01T22:54:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/agency-may-have-violated-law-with-microsoft-e-mail-contract-judge-says.html
A federal agency may have violated
U.S. procurement laws when it selected  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
products over  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s without full competition for a
planned $59.3 million e-mail services contract, a judge said.  Google, vying with Microsoft to gain a foothold in the $20
billion government cloud-computing market, sued the U.S.
Interior Department in October over the contract. In a complaint
filed in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims in  Washington , lawyers
for Google said the agency didn’t fully consider the company’s
“Google Apps for Government” product.  “There is a justifiable basis for me to find” violations
of procurement laws, Judge Susan Braden said today at a hearing.  Braden said she had written a 41-page opinion and will
issue it next week after deciding whether to require the agency
to hire an independent expert. That expert would evaluate
whether Google’s products meet the agency’s security needs, she
said.  “The public interest would be well-served by doing that,”
she said.  Braden ordered the Interior in January to hold off on
making an award while she considered the case.  The federal government spends $80 billion a year on
 information technology  and plans to move as much as one quarter
of that to so-called cloud computing, which allows governments
and businesses to have software and data delivered as a service
over the Internet.  In July 2010, Interior officials signed a decision
establishing the Microsoft product as the agency’s choice for
cloud e-mail.  ‘Private Cloud’  The agency issued a request on Aug. 30, 2010, for bids
seeking a Microsoft product, Business Productivity Online
Services-Federal, from resellers. Interior officials said the
agency required a “private cloud” for security reasons, and
noted Microsoft offered the only such product available.  Google filed a protest of the contract with the Government
Accountability Office, which decides contract-award disputes.
Google sued after the GAO rejected its protest.  Google said in court filings that the government’s request
was overly restrictive because its products meet federal
security standards. The  Mountain View , California-based company
said Interior Department officials refused to provide details of
its requirements to shut it out of the market.  Microsoft, based in Redmond, Washington, isn’t a party in
the case.  Softchoice Corp. (SO)  based in Toronto, a reseller of
Microsoft products and other software, is involved in the
litigation.  Andrew Kovacs, a Google spokesman, declined to comment
after the hearing.  The case is Google Inc. v. U.S., 10-743, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leah Nylen in Washington at 
 lnylen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anne Laurent at   Alaurent7@bloomberg.net  