-- 
Taiwan Dollar Advances as Global Investors Boost Share Purchases

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-09-01T08:33:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/taiwan-dollar-advances-after-global-funds-boost-share-purchases.html
Taiwan ’s dollar advanced the most in
more than a month as global investors boosted holdings of the
island’s stocks to benefit from growth in the local economy.  The currency breached NT$29 against the  U.S. dollar  for the
first time in a week as international funds bought $371 million
more local shares than they sold today, according to exchange
data. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index touched a two-
week high as  China ’s manufacturing index rebounded from a 29-
month low in August and U.S. factory orders increased more than
estimated in July.  “Foreign capital is flowing into the Taiwan market,” said
 Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin
Kong Commercial Bank. “That’s why the  Taiwan dollar  has broken
NT$29.”  The local currency strengthened 0.2 percent, the most since
July 22, to NT$28.960 against the U.S. dollar at the 4 p.m.
close local time, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The Taiwan
dollar has appreciated 10.6 percent over the past year, the
third-best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded currencies.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 50.9 in August from
50.7 a month earlier, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today. A reading above 50 signals expansion.
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday that orders placed
with U.S. factories climbed 2.4 percent in July, compared with
the 2 percent forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Taiwan’s government bonds fell, halting two days of gains.
The yield on the 2 percent notes due July 2016 increased one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 1.023 percent,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  