-- 
Aluminum Fee to Japan Cut as Slowing Recovery Curbs Demand

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-01T08:10:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/aluminum-fee-to-japan-cut-for-first-time-in-nine-months-1-.html
Aluminum buyers in  Japan ,  Asia ’s
largest importer, agreed to a 2 percent cut in fees charged by a
major producer, the first drop in three quarters, after recovery
from the March earthquake and tsunami lost momentum.  Premiums for the three months ending Dec. 31 were set at
$118 a metric ton over the London Metal Exchange cash price in
transactions agreed so far, compared with $120 this quarter,
said three executives involved in the negotiations. They
declined to be identified because the talks were private.  The fee declined as the U.S. economic slowdown and the
yen’s rally to a postwar record against the dollar threaten
Japan’s export-led recovery. Aluminum supply is abundant as
smelters in the  Middle East  boosted shipments to Asian buyers,
intensifying competition with Australian and American producers.  “Slowing global economies may curb growth in aluminum
demand,” said Tomomichi Akuta, economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Research & Consulting Co. in  Tokyo . “As producers are expanding
capacity, the metal will likely remain oversupplied.”  The fee declined for the first time since the first quarter
of this year, when Japanese premiums were set at $112 to $113 a
ton. The drop in premiums may reduce costs for fabricators such
as  Furukawa-Sky Aluminum Corp. (5741)  and  Sumitomo Light Metal
Industries Ltd. (5738) , Japan’s two biggest mills.  Imports of refined aluminum dropped 11 percent to 809,573
tons in the six months ended June 30 from 912,390 tons in the
same period last year, data compiled by the Japan Aluminium
Association showed. Imports jumped 28 percent to 1.72 million
tons last year.  Korean Demand  Aluminum demand in South Korea may also deteriorate in the
second half of this year amid concerns that the global economy
is stalling, said Kim Soo Bong, director of the Korea Nonferrous
Metal Association. The nation’s industrial output increased a
less-than-estimated 3.8 percent from a year earlier in July, and
slid 0.4 percent from June, Statistics Korea said yesterday.  Premiums for Western-origin high-grade primary aluminum
shipped into South Korean ports dropped to $104 a ton over the
LME cash settlement price in August, from premiums of $113 a ton
in February and in May, according to price data available on the
website of  South Korea ’s Public Procurement Service, which
manages strategic commodities.  Rolled-Aluminum  In Japan, shipments of rolled-aluminum products dropped 4.8
percent in July, declining for the second straight month, as
demand from can makers lost steam and sales to automakers were
still weak, data from the Japan Aluminium Association show.  Shipments of flat-rolled products used in cans expanded 3.8
percent to 40,283 tons in July, slower than the 18 percent gain
in June, as production declined after power-rationing began in
the summer, according to the group. Japan ordered industrial
power users to cut electricity consumption by 15 percent
starting July 1 to help cope with shortages after the nation’s
largest quake and tsunami crippled a Fukushima nuclear station.  Factory output increased a less-than-expected 0.6 percent
in July from June, the slowest gain since March, Japan’s Trade
Ministry said yesterday.  Exports fell more than expected in July, the jobless rate
rose for a second month and retail sales dropped, signaling the
world’s third-largest economy is struggling to recover.  Economic Contraction  New Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  faces pressure to reverse
three straight quarters of economic contraction just as  Europe ’s
debt crisis and elevated U.S. unemployment undermine global
confidence and demand. The yen’s advance against the dollar is
also threatening the earnings of exporters such as Honda Motor
Co. and  Denso Corp. (6902)   Aluminum for three-month delivery on the LME fell 1.1
percent to $2,443 a ton at 5 p.m. Tokyo time. The price climbed
to $2,803 on May 3, the highest level since 2008, as higher  oil
prices  boosted production costs.  Japanese aluminum buyers pay a premium in addition to the
LME cash price to cover freight and insurance and to reflect
regional supply and demand. Some fourth-quarter transactions are
still being negotiated with offers as high as $123 a ton, the
executives said.  The fee is applied to so-called Good Western-grade aluminum
ingot. The biggest suppliers of Western ingot to Japan include
 Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , BHP Billiton Ltd. and  Alcoa Inc. (AA)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  