-- 
American Apparel in Talks to Raise $160M

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-01T20:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/american-apparel-said-to-be-in-talks-to-raise-160-million.html
American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the Los
Angeles-based clothier, is in talks to raise as much as $160
million from several groups, including a private-equity firm
affiliated with  Ron Burkle , according to four people familiar
with the situation.  The restructuring plan may include a combination of
refinancing the company’s debt held by  Lion Capital LLP  and  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and exercising stock warrants, said the people,
who declined to be identified because the talks are private. A
deal may be completed in the next 30 days and could be for as
little as $90 million, two of the people said. A deal could also
take six months, one person said.  The restructuring discussions have included the possibility
that Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney will step aside as
chairman so he can focus on day-to-day operations, two of the
people said. Charney, the company’s largest shareholder, would
remain on the board.  American Apparel has been approached by several groups to
help the company shore up its finances as its sales results have
improved, three of the people said. The parties include private-
equity firms Colbeck Capital Management, a New York shop
affiliated with Burkle’s Yucaipa’s Cos., and Authentic Brands
Group, which is backed by Los Angeles-based Leonard Green &
Partners LP, three of the people said.  Charney declined to comment. Representatives of Colbeck
Capital and Authentic Brands didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  American Apparel rose 4 cents, or 4.1 percent, to $1.01 at
4:15 p.m. in NYSE Amex trading.  April Investment  The company in April sold $14.9 million in shares to a
group of investors from  Canada  to beef up its finances after
losing $86.3 million in 2010 and having to amend loan agreements
to avoid breaching debt covenants. Charney blamed the losses on
the costs and productivity declines related to replacing 2,500
workers after immigration violations in 2009.  The group of Canadian investors includes entrepreneur
Michael Serruya, Delavaco Capital Inc., Authentic Brands and
Front Street Investment Management Inc., according to a public
filing on Aug. 30.  The investment group in April also received warrants to
purchase 27.4 million more shares at 90 cents a share, the same
price as its original investment. The investors exercised 8.4
million of those warrants in July. The rest could be used as
part of the restructuring.  American Apparel’s net loss narrowed to $213,000 in the
quarter ended June 30 from $14.7 million a year earlier. Sales
were little changed after dropping in each of the previous four
quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  