-- 
Manchester United’s Sales Climb to Record $537.7 Million on Sponsorships

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-01T16:16:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/manchester-united-s-sales-climb-to-record-537-7-million-on-sponsorships.html
Manchester United ’s parent company
posted a record full-year operating profit of 110.9 million
pounds ($180 million) as the English soccer champion plans a $1
billion initial public offering in Singapore.  Red Football Ltd.’s profit before depreciation,
amortization of players’ registrations and exceptional items
rose 9.6 percent for the year to June 30, the club said in an
e-mailed  statement . Revenue climbed 16 percent to 331.4 million
pounds, driven by sponsorship and licensing deals with companies
including Aon Corp.  The net debt of the Glazer family’s team was reduced from
376.9 million pounds to 308.3 million pounds. Its pretax profit
was 29.7 million pounds, compared with a loss of 15 million
pounds last year. It’s the second time in six years the club has
been profitable.  “This can only help make the IPO in  Singapore  a success,”
Chris Searle, a partner at BDO LLP accounting firm in  London ,
said in an interview. “Football is always pretty volatile but
if you were going to bet on a club being successful financially
it would be Manchester United.”  The Glazers plan to raise about $1 billion by selling as
much as 30 percent of the club to reduce its debt burden and
finance player purchases. The family, which also owns the
 National Football League ’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers, bought the team
in 2005 for 790 million pounds. United spends about 45 million
pounds a year to service a 500 million-pound bond, which matures
in 2017.  Jerseys, Mopeds  The club boosted so-called commercial revenue 27 percent to
103.4 million pounds as a jersey sponsorship accord with Aon
began and sold licensing rights to companies such as Honda Motor
Co., which is making United-branded mopeds in  Thailand .  United’s commercial growth “is something quite
spectacular,” Stefan Szymanski, a sports business professor at
the  University of Michigan , told Bloomberg Television, adding he
expected the club’s income to continue rising and the Glazers to
retain ownership “for many years.”  Matchday sales rose 8.3 percent to 108.6 million pounds on
proceeds from a tour of the U.S. and because United played more
home games than the previous campaign by reaching the Champions
League final and F.A. Cup semifinals. Media revenue rose 13.9
percent to 119.4 million pounds, driven by a bigger share of
Champions League television rights income.  After winning its 19th English soccer championship last
season, United strengthened its squad in June by signing
goalkeeper David De Gea, defender Phil Jones and winger Ashley Young. It tops the Premier League standings after three games of
this season with a maximum nine points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid  
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net .
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 