-- 
Apple Suppliers Show How Wall Street Helps Manage Expectations

-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   R i c h a r d   D a v e n p o r t
-- 
2011-09-01T03:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/apple-suppliers-reveal-how-wall-street-estimates-help-manage-expectations.html
Wall Street  says  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  will
post $28.9 billion in sales this quarter. Revenue estimates for
the companies that build Apple’s parts suggest securities
industry analysts are about $2 billion short.  Sales at Apple’s largest suppliers are expected to rise
eight times as much as the company’s, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue for the makers of chips
and other electronics may climb 9.3 percent this quarter from
last, data on manufacturers accounting for about 75 percent of
Apple’s cost of goods sold show. That compares with 1.1 percent
growth predicted for Apple.  Companies for decades have refrained from giving the most
optimistic guidance so they can reward shareholders with results
that exceed forecasts, and the Cupertino, California-based
iPhone maker has few if any peers for managing expectations.
Apple, which briefly surpassed Exxon Mobil Corp. last month as
the world’s most valuable company, topped sales projections in
19 of the last 20 quarters, beating by 6.5 percent on average.  “What surprises me is that analysts continue to allow
Apple to low-ball their estimates,”  Keith Goddard , president of
Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Capital Advisors Inc., said in a telephone
interview. His firm oversees $919 million including Apple
shares. “Analysts accept Apple’s guidance and Wall Street’s
consensus will usually drift a little bit higher, but then in
earnings seasons, Apple blows it away every time.”  Quarterly Earnings  Applying the forecast sales growth among the suppliers to
Apple would yield revenue in the September quarter of $31.2
billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Kristin Huguet, an
Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment in a telephone interview
on why the company almost always tops sales predictions. Apple’s
own guidance calls for sales to slump 12 percent to $25 billion
in the fourth quarter from the third.  When Apple has reported quarterly results since 2006, it
has exceeded the average earnings forecast given by analysts
three months earlier by an average of 30 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Yet, analysts raise estimates by
only 6 percent during the period, the data show.  “Analysts are in a tricky position,” Alex Gauna, who
covers Apple at JMP Securities LLC in  San Francisco , said in a
telephone interview. “In theory, the best information you’re
going to get comes from the company. But in fact we know that
information is not intended to be very helpful.”  Gauna predicts sales in the fourth quarter will be $30
billion, 3.9 percent higher than the average estimate.  Apple shares closed at $384.83 yesterday, up from $7.17 at
the end of 2002.  Steve Jobs , who quit as chief executive officer
last week, presided over a 9,020 percent surge in the stock
price between July 1997, when his appointment as interim CEO was
reported by the San Francisco Chronicle, and his resignation.  ‘Guiding Low’  “I don’t believe they’re guiding low just so that they can
beat, just so they can manipulate the Street,” Gauna said.
“That would be the conspiracy theorist’s reason. I don’t
suspect Apple is that calculative.”  In the last 10 years, sales in Apple’s fourth quarter,
which ends in September, increased at an average rate of 17
percent from the three months that ended in June. Should that
rate of increase be repeated, Apple would post fourth-quarter
revenue of about $33.4 billion, 16 percent higher than the
average analyst estimate of $28.9 billion.  Apple said on July 19 that sales in the period ended June
25 climbed 16 percent from the previous quarter to $28.6
billion. Analysts were expecting revenue of $25 billion, a 1.4
percent increase from the prior period and below the 10-year
growth rate of 4.1 percent. The suppliers that account for 75
percent of its cost of goods sold reported revenue growth of 10
percent.  No New IPhones  Abhey Lamba, a New York-based analyst at ISI Group Inc.,
said the difference in 2011 from prior years may be that Apple
didn’t sell a new version of the iPhone in the third quarter. He
estimates sales in the fourth quarter will slip 2.5 percent to
$27.9 billion. His third-quarter prediction called for revenue
of $24.4 billion.  “We go above their guidance for sure, but the question of
how far above should we go is always a function on demand,”
Lamba said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Given the
uncertainty in the consumer market, we just tend to take a
slightly more cautious stance.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 5.7 percent in August,
the biggest one-month decline since May 2010. A report on Aug.
30 showed U.S. consumer confidence sank to a 28-month low.  Assembly Contractors  Apple outsources the assembly of its products and computer
chips to companies such as Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. and
Samsung Electronics Co. Hon Hai, the Taipei-listed flagship of
Foxconn Technology Group, is Apple’s largest supplier,
accounting for about 37 percent of its cost of goods sold,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Samsung is second,
making up about 20 percent.  While 21 percent of Hon Hai’s revenue comes from Apple,
analysts estimate sales will rise 12 percent in the next
quarter. This means revenue from the electronic maker’s other
customers has to increase at a pace of about 15 percent to make
up for Apple should its growth rate be 1.1 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The weighted average of sales growth estimates for Hon
Hai’s customers, which include Hewlett-Packard Co. and Sony
Corp., is 5.1 percent, the data show. Lamba and Gauna say the
discrepancy may stem from Apple stocking up on inventory for the
holiday season.  “Apple might be building these products now but might sell
them in Christmastime,” Gauna said. “Hon Hai might get the
revenue this quarter but Apple might not get it ‘til Santa
comes.’’  Missing Estimates  Hon Hai posted second-quarter net income this week that
missed analysts’ estimates after costs increased. Apple’s
profits reported in July beat projections for the 26th straight
quarter, lifted by record sales of iPhones and iPad tablets.  ‘‘When you have a really strong story, it often pays to
downplay it a bit,”  Peter Jankovskis , chief investment officer
at Oakbrook Investments LLC in Lisle,  Illinois , said in a
telephone interview on Aug. 30. The firm manages about $2.6
billion including Apple shares. “If they downplay their numbers
and they’re very confident they can achieve those numbers and
maybe more, then they’re going to beat the Street’s
expectations. That’s really what it’s all about -- having people
always be surprised on the upside.”  Quanta, Broadcom  Revenue at Quanta Computer Inc., the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based
laptop computer maker, is projected to increase about 10
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
gets 11 percent of sales from Apple, the data show.  Broadcom
Corp. (BRCM) , which supplies communication chips for Apple’s mobile
devices, also gets 11 percent of its revenue from the company.
Analysts estimate sales at the Irvine, California-based company
will increase 8.9 percent.  “Because they’re not Apple, other companies need to be a
little more rigorous with their guidance,” JMP’s Gauna said.
“They would alienate their investor base too much if they had
the same type of methodology Apple does. They’re more beholden
by their investors to give accurate forecasts. Apple gets a pass
on so many things.”  Gene Munster , an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos. in
 Minneapolis , said Wall Street firms are doing the best they can.  Analysts are “essentially trying to catch them and they
keep beating us,” Munster said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “Our goal is to get it right. We factor in how
conservative they typically are and they still just blow it out
of the water.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Davenport in New York at 
 rdavenport4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  