-- 
Apple Supplier AAC Says It Won Orders for New IPhone, IPad

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-09-01T07:12:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/apple-supplier-aac-wins-orders-to-make-components-for-new-iphones-ipads.html
AAC Technologies Holdings Inc., a
Hong Kong-listed supplier of microphones and mini-speakers to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , said it clinched orders to make components for new
iPhone and iPad versions.  “We are one of the suppliers” for the next-generation
iPhone, Richard Mok, chief financial officer at AAC, said in an
interview in Hong Kong yesterday. AAC is “ready” to ship
components for the next version of the iPad, Mok said. He didn’t
say when Apple will release the new products.  Apple plans to introduce a new iPhone that boasts a
stronger chip for processing data and a more advanced camera,
two people familiar with the product said in June. Demand for
the iPhone and iPad, Apple’s two best-selling products, helped
the Cupertino, California-based company leapfrog  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
as the world’s most valuable technology company.  “The quality and reliability of our products satisfy the
requirements of Apple,” Mok said. “Naturally we have a good
opportunity to supply them for their next-generation phone.”  Carolyn Wu, a spokeswoman at Apple in Beijing, declined to
comment on orders for AAC or when Apple will introduce new
iPhone and iPad versions.  AAC, which competes with suppliers including  Dover Corp. (DOV) ’s
Knowles unit, last week said first-half profit jumped 33 percent
as orders for parts used in phones and tablets surged.  The Chinese company, which started shipping parts for the
iPad 2 this month, rose as much as 6 percent to HK$17.28 in Hong
Kong trading today. Dover, based in  Downers Grove , Illinois,
rose 0.5 percent to $57.52 in New York yesterday.  Apple is AAC’s biggest customer, accounting for more than a
quarter of first-half revenue, Mok said. AAC also supplies
components for customers including Samsung Electronics Co. and
 Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , he said.  First-half profit rose to 509.3 million yuan ($80 million)
from 382.3 million yuan a year earlier, AAC reported on Aug. 26.
Revenue rose 41 percent to 1.88 billion yuan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  