-- 
Apple’s Cook Promotes Eddy Cue to Senior VP

-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 
2011-09-01T23:39:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/apple-ceo-cook-promotes-eddy-cue-to-top-role-overseeing-internet-software.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook , making his first top appointment since succeeding
 Steve Jobs , promoted iTunes head Eddy Cue to senior vice
president of Internet software and services.  Cue oversees the iTunes online music store, as well as the
App Store, which sells downloadable software for iPads and
iPhones, Cook said in a memo. Cue, a 22-year Apple veteran, is
also  in charge of  the planned iCloud service, which will let
users access content across multiple Apple devices.  Cue’s responsibilities include iAd, the mobile-ad business
that cut rates by as much as 70 percent this year to keep users
from defecting to Google Inc.’s competing AdMob. The promotion
reflects his role in building iTunes and the  App Store , and it
puts him on the same level as executives including design head
Jonathan Ive and software chief  Scott Forstall .  “Apple is a company and culture unlike any other in the
world and leaders like Eddy get that,” Cook wrote. “Apple is in
their blood.”  Cue was a manager in Apple’s customer support unit when in
1997 Jobs returned to the company after an ouster more than a
decade earlier. Jobs put Cue in charge of one of his first
efforts: to build an online store. The success of the store
helped Apple sell directly to customers rather than through a
less efficient network of dealers and retailers, which Jobs
trimmed before launching his own line of stores.  Jobs Resigns  Cue later helped develop the initial iTunes store as well
as the processes that would make purchasing songs or downloading
apps simple and secure.  Jobs resigned last week after taking medical leave in
January. He was diagnosed with a rare form of cancer in 2003 and
had a  liver transplant  in 2009.  Apple’s iCloud will automatically store and sync photos,
documents, calendar items and other content on all of a
consumer’s Apple devices.  If successful, “iCloud could be one of the biggest things
in Apple’s history,” Walter C. Price, managing director of RCM
Capital Management, said in a recent interview. If the service
works as advertised, it could add $100 billion to Apple’s
current market value, now at $353.6 billion.  Cue’s promotion was  previously reported  by the 9to5Mac
blog.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 