-- 
Arab Spring Events Force Insurers of Political Violence to Define Damages

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C l a r k
-- 
2011-09-01T03:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/arab-spring-events-force-insurers-of-political-violence-to-define-damages.html
As the Arab Spring gained momentum
this year, the initial protests in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square 
constituted civil commotion, in the parlance of the global
 insurance industry . When demonstrators demanded that Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  step down, they crossed into
insurrection. After soldiers sided with the people, the military
engaged in mutiny.  Such semantics may feel like distinctions without a
difference. For underwriters in the specialty market of
political-violence insurance, though, they’re crucial, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Sept. 5 issue.  Providers such as  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX)  and Lancashire Holdings Ltd.,
based in  Bermuda , typically sell coverage from a menu that
starts with sabotage and terrorism and moves through such perils
as “strikes, riots, and civil commotion,” insurrection and
outright war. The problem is that events on the ground can be
difficult to define. As incidents progress from one
classification of political violence to another, insurers and
insured don’t always agree on whether property damage should be
covered.  Although brokers and underwriters rarely discuss specific
cases, total claims arising from the Arab Spring may top $500
million, said Andrew van den Born, an  executive director  at
broker  Willis Group Holdings Plc (WSH)  in London. Disagreements over
how to label the turmoil may mean insurers will be reluctant to
pay many of those claims, people in the business say.  Causing Disputes  “This type of coverage lends itself to disputes,” said
Daniel Wagner, chief executive officer of consulting firm
Country Risk Solutions. “‘Was there a fire in your home?’ is a
yes-or-no question,” he said. “‘Was this a riot or an
insurrection?’ is not nearly as clear.”  More than 60 percent of 1,382 companies and other
organizations surveyed by insurance broker Marsh & McLennan Cos.
buy terrorism insurance. Last year, the survey found, insurance
companies were willing to underwrite $3.8 billion in such
coverage globally.  Since many governments in the Middle East had enjoyed long
tenures, multinationals and local companies alike typically
insured themselves against sabotage, terrorism, and civil
commotion but rarely against graver perils such as insurrections
or war. Rates have climbed this year as the turmoil boosted
demand for policies covering more serious upheavals, brokers and
underwriters say.  “In Bahrain, prices went up 400 to 500 percent
overnight,” said David A. Austin, CEO of  Visionary Underwriting
Agency  of Dubai. “In  Syria , prices went sky-high.”  Too Risky  For decades, insurers considered insurrection and war too
risky to cover. Before Sept. 11, 2001, terrorism was included in
standard property-loss policies except in high-risk countries
such as  Colombia  and  Sri Lanka .  After the attacks, reinsurers such as  Munich Re  and Swiss
Re Ltd. -- which write broad policies to cover the risks taken
on by smaller insurance companies -- started to exclude
terrorism from property coverage, opening up a separate market
for terrorism insurance. As companies assessed the risks in many
countries, they started buying coverage for other kinds of
political violence.  Disputes over those policies arise when incidents shift
from one type of political violence to another. When Hezbollah
fired rockets into  Israel  in 2006, an Israeli company submitted
a terrorism claim for property damage caused by the attacks. The
insurer balked, arguing that by the time the destruction
occurred the conflict had become a war, several people in the
industry said. The claim was ultimately settled privately, said
Charles Berry, chairman of Berry, Palmer, & Lyle, a  London 
broker not involved in the case.  ‘Very Profitable’  “The claims weren’t that big, and the account was very
profitable,” Berry said.  The pick-and-choose approach to political-violence
insurance was tested again last year when the Thai government
called protests in central Bangkok acts of terrorism. That
definition has led to about 100 disputed claims, according to
the General Insurance Association, a Thai trade group.  The owners of the CentralWorld mall had terrorism insurance
and expect to recoup damages. Another mall, Center One, had
coverage for strikes, riots, and civil commotion -- but not
terrorism. The mall’s management said its insurer is refusing to
pay a claim for 120 million baht ($4 million).  Given the hodgepodge of policies in the  Middle East ,
similar issues will surely arise from events there. Julie
Martin, a political risk insurance broker at Marsh, said a new
client asked her to evaluate a political-violence claim from the
region on a policy sold by another broker.  “The claim didn’t fit with the events that occurred,”
said Martin. Though she helped submit the claim, she said she
told the client, “There is no way that the underwriter will
pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Clark in New York at 
 pclark45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rocks at   drocks1@bloomberg.net . 