-- 
Market, Politicians Going Separate Ways on Climate Change: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-01T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/market-politicians-going-separate-ways-on-climate-change-view.html
Hurricane Irene’s residue is likely
to include a confusing debate over whether insurers or property
owners are responsible for storm-caused water damage. There’s no
lack of clarity, however, over whether the  insurance industry 
believes in  climate change  and its ties to lethal weather: It
does.  As Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 5 issue, the
industry has absorbed many lessons from Sept. 11 about
anticipating risk. One is that the recent spate of weather
extremes is likely to continue -- and the insurance market must
reflect that.  Interestingly, this puts the industry at odds with a number
of Republican candidates who have made questioning climate
change a not-insignificant part of their campaign strategy.  Rick Perry  and Michele Bachmann dispute whether global warming is
man-made. Perry suggests that climate is affected by many
variables, which scientists can manipulate “so that they will
have dollars rolling into their projects.”  Mitt Romney  is on
the fence. Only Jon Huntsman Jr. has declared definitively that
he trusts scientists on global warming.  Politicians have been known to dissemble about risk because
voters generally don’t like to hear bad news. The insurance
industry makes its money telling it to you straight -- how long
you’ll probably live, what price your home will fetch, whether
to repair or trade in your car.  Risk Models  For this reason, it’s worth noting that insurers already
factor climate change into their models for measuring, pricing
and distributing risk. Insurers have no incentive to lie. If
they are more scared than they should be in pricing risk,
shareholders will punish them. If they aren’t scared enough,
nature will do the job.  No one can say for certain that any single weather event
flows from the warmer air caused by  carbon emissions , which in
turn lead to more rainfall, floods and snowfall over some parts
of the planet, and more drought in other parts. But last year
was the hottest on record. Arctic ice is at record low levels.
Regardless of what politicians say, insurers must factor all
this into premiums.  Vulnerable Areas  Swiss Re, the second-largest reinsurer, is developing
scenarios using probabilistic modeling to help government
officials cope. The reinsurer studied the effects of climate
change in vulnerable areas such as Samoa,  Mali , Caribbean
islands and Miami.  No matter which model it chose -- no change, moderate
changes or extreme changes -- Swiss Re concludes it’s cheaper to
adapt now than to sit and wait.  It recommends building codes that require more water- and
wind-proofing, zoning laws that prevent planting trees close to
buildings and power lines, redesigned beaches that absorb  storm
surge , and restoration of wetlands.  Hurricane Irene, and the estimated $5 billion to $7 billion
in damage claims insurers now face, has been swept up in this
debate. Irene maintained hurricane strength farther north than
storms usually do -- and dropped extraordinary amounts of rain.
At the same time, parts of the U.S. are experiencing record-high
temperatures and dust-bowl conditions. Houston hit an all-time
high of 109 degrees Fahrenheit (43 degrees Celsius) the same day
Irene was roaring up the Eastern Seaboard.  Rising Seas  A storm with Irene’s fury will only cause more damage in
the future. Rising sea levels will allow storm surge to
penetrate farther inland. Americans pushing relentlessly toward
the East and West Coasts are putting themselves and their
property in harm’s way.  If elected officials want to help constituents prepare for
disaster, they could fight for legislation to curb carbon
emissions, and they could keep people from building along
coastlines. Politicians have enjoyed enormous success calling
scientists into question. The market may not prove to be such an
easy target.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 