-- 
Harrisburg City Council Rejects Fiscal Plan to Rescue Pennsylvania Capital

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/harrisburg-city-council-rejects-fiscal-plan-to-rescue-pennsylvania-capital.html
Harrisburg’s City Council rejected
Mayor  Linda Thompson ’s fiscal-recovery plan, putting state aid
at risk and leaving Pennsylvania’s capital in financial limbo.  The 4-3 vote late yesterday marked the second time in as
many months that the council has blocked a path out of debt tied
to an incinerator project that saddled the city with bills it
can’t pay.  “It is a plan, yes, but it’s an unreliable one,”
Councilman Brad Koplinski said. “It’s making sure that  Wall
Street  gets paid and Main Street gets the shaft.”  The decision means the city has no way out from under more
than $300 million of debt, or five times its general-fund
budget. The defeat could also scuttle the city’s efforts to
raise cash and cause it to either miss payroll or a $3.3 million
general-obligation bond payment due this month, Thompson said
after the vote.  “It placed us in uncharted waters,” she told reporters.
Harrisburg’s budget has a deficit of at least $5 million.  The council’s move may worsen fiscal strains if the state
withholds aid. The vote also may make it more difficult to raise
$7.5 million by leasing municipal land to the Harrisburg Parking
Authority, Thompson said. She is also turning to Governor Tom Corbett for an advance on state funding to the city to provide
cash and prevent more missed debt payments.  “Whether we get that money now is unbeknownst to me,” she
said.  Ill-Fated Project  Harrisburg’s crisis arose because it guaranteed bonds that
financed improvements to a municipal incinerator that hasn’t
generated enough revenue to service the debt. Last year, the
city entered  Pennsylvania ’s Act 47 aid program for distressed
cities, only to see the council in July reject plans drawn up
for it by consultants. The program is designed to help
communities stave off bankruptcy.  The city is barred from seeking bankruptcy court protection
until July, and Corbett, a Republican, said last week that the
council’s failure to act would increases the odds that the
Legislature will move to take control of city finances.  “I don’t want anybody else coming in and taking over this
city,” said Gloria Martin-Roberts, the council president.
“That’s not what America signed up for.”  On July 19, the council spurned the proposal from the Act
47 consultants, marking the first time a program participant has
done so. As with that plan, Thompson sought the incinerator’s
sale and a lease of the municipal parking system. She also
proposed a possible commuter tax. Her plan didn’t cover all the
debt tied to the waste-to-energy plant overhaul.  Public Concerns  During the council’s deliberations before the vote, about a
dozen members of the public weighed in, mostly to support
Thompson’s proposal as a way to avert bankruptcy or a legislated
takeover. Others raised concern about ceding power to the state.  The state stood ready to provide more than $15 million if
an acceptable blueprint was passed, Corbett said in a letter. He
included an $8 million incinerator-improvement grant and a $5.67
million loan to fix up city sewers. He also said support for the
fire department would rise fivefold to $2.5 million a year.  Corbett suggested he would back a legislative move to strip
city officials of their ability to make “irresponsible”
decisions, in the Aug. 23 letter to Thompson. “The commonwealth
will not bail out the city,” he said.  Harrisburg’s crisis has affected both Dauphin County, which
also backed some of the incinerator debt, and bond insurer
Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which has made payments the
city skipped.  Harrisburg’s options are more limited than municipalities
such as Central Falls,  Rhode Island , which sought court
protection on Aug. 1. The capital is barred from declaring
bankruptcy before July, according to a Pennsylvania law that
also calls for the city to lose state funds if it does.  Councilman Kelvin Summerford, who supported the mayor’s
plan, said its defeat further clouds the city’s outlook.  “You ask me what do I do next,” he said in an interview
after the vote. “I have no idea.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 William Selway  in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 