-- 
Harvard’s ‘Porgy’ Brings McDonald Back To N.Y.: Jeremy Gerard

-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 
2011-09-03T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/harvard-s-arrogant-porgy-and-bess-sets-speed-boat-to-n-y-jeremy-gerard.html
First the  American Repertory Theater 
at Harvard told critics we couldn’t review “Porgy and Bess.”  Then we were welcomed after all.  Before anyone had another think about it, I took a fast
train to  Boston  to see what its original creative team -- George
and Ira Gershwin and DuBose and Dorothy Heyward -- called an
“American Folk Opera.”  Which is not what the new creative team call its
concoction. Director Diane Paulus and adaptor Suzan-Lori Parks
have retitled it “The Gershwins’ Porgy and Bess” (so much for
the Heywards).  And then proceeded to tell the New York Times some
breathtakingly idiotic things about what they were up to.  Apparently, “Porgy and Bess” had fuzzy plotting and
fuzzier characters (who knew?). And what did these rich white
people know, after all, about poor Southern blacks? Better not
let A.R.T. get its hands on “Othello.”  Stephen Sondheim  stirred the pot with a venomous
denunciation of Porgy’s self-proclaimed saviors. He imagined
them fixing Puccini’s “Tosca” because the composer failed to
provide much of a back story explaining her status in Roman
society in Napoleonic times.  I gather “The Gershwins’ etc.” has been undergoing some
changes since Sondheim rose to defend a masterpiece that needs
help from no one. One that’s done quite well, thanks, since
opening on Broadway 76 years ago after, oh irony, trying out in
Boston.  In Catfish Row, Porgy, crippled from birth, takes up with
beautiful Bess, the cocaine snorting girlfriend of brutish
Crown, on the lam for murder. Always ready with a vial of
“happy dust” and the lure of a boat that’s leaving soon for
 New York  is the predatory Sporting Life, who would like nothing
more than to return north with Bess and hustle her jazz on the
streets of Harlem.  Parks and co-adaptor Diedre L. Murray have taken Porgy out
of his usual cart and given him a cane and a lame walk. When he
sings “I Got Plenty of Nothing,” the grin on his face makes it
clear that whatever was lacking in his life has been more than
made up for by Bess in his bed.  Silkily sung and ferociously played by Audra McDonald, she
is plenty of everything you would want in Bess. She is well-
matched to the somewhat overage Norm Lewis, whose Porgy is a
tower of dignity, even as he struggles to follow his girl come
hell or high water. (A cheerier ending was tested but dropped).  Broadway Melody  When they sing “I Loves You, Porgy,” all -- well, much --
is forgiven. They’re a matchup Broadway audiences are going to
want to hear.  I wasn’t keen on the muscular, up-tempo orchestrations by
William David Brohn and Christopher Jahnke. They’re brassy and
fast, which is fine for comic numbers like Sporting Life’s “It
Ain’t Necessarily So” and Crown’s “Red Headed Woman.” But
they leave little time to savor the more soaring tunes,
including “My Man’s Gone Now” and “Bess, You Is My Woman
Now.”  There’s nothing grandly operatic about Riccardo Hernandez’s
setting, an abstract sun-bleached cyclorama in washed-out light
by Christopher Akerlind that suggests the sea but not the
pressing poverty of Catfish Row. So the dignified, simple
clothes by Esosa perform multiple tasks.  Static Staging  For most of Act I, Paulus offers remarkably static staging,
though Ronald K. Brown’s Sunday-service inspired dances are
pleasant to watch. But the final 30 minutes of the 2 1/2 hour
production are electrifying, as the four principals really get
to strut their stuff and the ensemble as a whole finally comes
to roiling life.  McDonald and Lewis don’t carry the show alone. David Alan
Grier’s vampy Sporting Life and Phillip Boykin’s vicious Crown
are both beautifully sung. Among the many other soaring voices
on display, Bryonha Marie Parkham and Andrea Jones-Sojola stand
out as, respectively, Serena and Strawberry Woman.  Nikki Renee Daniels opens the show singing “Summertime”
holding a real baby (one of two who alternate in the role with,
the program assures us, the approval of the state attorney
general). A woman may be a sometime thing, as the song goes, but
a baby is a very odd prop.  One more thought: No institution called the American
Repertory Theater should be party to censorship -- whether
revising a classic into political correctitude or making critics
the enemy. When Paul Robeson asked Oscar Hammerstein to change a
lyric in “Ol’ Man River,” from “Show Boat,” Hammerstein
politely suggested that “Paul write his own songs and leave
mine alone.”  Through Oct. 2 at the American Repertory Theater, 64
Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass. Information: +1-617-547-8300;
 http://www.americanrepertorytheater.org . Rating: ** 1/2  (Jeremy Gerard is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 