-- 
Asia Stocks Set for Best Streak Since January on Factory Orders

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-09-01T10:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/asian-stocks-set-for-best-streak-since-january-on-u-s-manufacturing-data.html
Asian stocks climbed, with the
regional benchmark index set for its longest streak of gains
since January, as manufacturing in  China  and the U.S. expanded,
boosting the outlook for exporters and machinery makers.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a supplier of building
materials that counts the U.S. as its biggest market, gained 3.5
percent in Sydney.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and
clothes to U.S. retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., surged
5.7 percent after the company’s chairman said sales are
recovering.  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , Japan’s largest maker of construction
machinery, jumped 4.2 percent after being rated “overweight”
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.3 percent to 125.32 as
of 5:25 p.m. in  Tokyo , paring an advance of as much as 1.4
percent earlier. Five stocks advanced for every three that fell
in the gauge. The measure slumped 8.6 percent last month, the
most since May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is
slowing as Europe’s sovereign debt crisis spreads and after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. credit rating.  “Concern about the health of the  U.S. economy  was near the
top of the laundry list of worries for investors,” said Prasad Patkar, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.1 billion at
Sydney-based Platypus Asset Management Ltd. “If the data keeps
reinforcing the idea that a new recession is unlikely, markets
could rally strongly this quarter. The latest manufacturing data
confirms that China’s economy was never headed for a hard
landing.”  U.S. Futures  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 1.2 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s
Hang Seng Index gained 0.3, paring an earlier advance of as much
as 2.1 percent. South Korea’s Kospi Index closed little changed,
after rising as much as 2.6 percent earlier. Markets in India
and Indonesia were shut for holidays.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.4
percent today, wiping out gains of as much as 0.5 percent
earlier. In  New York , the index rose 0.5 percent yesterday after
a report showed orders placed with U.S. factories rose by most
in four months, beating economist estimates. Another report
showed business activity in the U.S. expanded in August at a
faster pace than economists forecast, allaying concern that
manufacturing was slumping.  Exporters advanced on speculation shipments to the U.S.,
the biggest market for Asian products, will increase.  James
Hardie  jumped 3.5 percent to A$6.16 in Sydney. Honda Motor Co.,
a carmaker that gets 44 percent of sales from North America,
rose 3.4 percent to 2,557 yen in Tokyo. Samsung Electronics Co.,
South Korea’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, gained
3.6 percent to 771,000 won in Seoul.  ‘Little Slower’  Li & Fung, which counts the U.S. as its biggest market,
surged 5.7 percent to HK$14.84 in Hong Kong. The recovery in
retail sales is a “little slower” than anticipated, Chairman
 Victor Fung  said in an interview on Aug. 30. “The key thing is
it is recovering.”  PCCW Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest phone company, climbed 3.9
percent to HK$3.47. The company plans to raise as much as $2
billion by listing its telecommunications assets as a business
trust in Hong Kong in late October, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  China’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.4 percent after a
report by the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
showed a gauge of the nation’s manufacturing activity expanded
in July at a slower pace than economists had forecast. A
separate measure released by HSBC Holdings Plc contracted for
the second month.  Growth Driver  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of industrial robots, climbed 2.8
percent to 12,970 yen in Tokyo. JPMorgan named the company its
“top pick” among 10 Japanese machinery manufacturers it
started covering, saying earnings will be driven by growth in
emerging markets.  Komatsu, which counts China as its biggest market,
increased 4.2 percent to 2,109 yen in Tokyo. JPMorgan rated the
stock “overweight” in new coverage.  “We expect emerging markets to remain the main driver of
growth,” JPMorgan analyst Toru Nakahashi wrote in a report
dated yesterday. “Although China has recently shifted to
monetary tightening, we think its stance will gradually ease
toward the end of the year.”  Earnings Performance  Of the 701 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index that
reported net income since July 11, 44 percent surpassed analyst
estimates, while 35 percent fell short, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shimao Property Holdings Ltd. (813) , a China-based developer,
advanced 5.6 percent to HK$8.65 in Hong Kong after saying first-
half net income increased 57 percent from a year earlier.  Compal Electronics Inc. (2324) , the world’s second-largest
contract maker of computer notebooks, slumped 6.1 percent to
NT$29.20 in Taipei after posting second-quarter profit that
missed analyst estimates and cutting its full-year shipment
forecast.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 9.3 percent this year
through yesterday, compared with a 3.1 percent drop by the S&P
500 and a 14 percent loss by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Stocks
in the Asian benchmark were valued at 12.3 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.2 times for the  S&P 500 
and 9.9 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  