-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Copper Falls on China Demand Prospects

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-09-01T21:52:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/asia-commodity-day-ahead-copper-falls-on-china-demand-prospects.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP COMMODITY STORY:  Copper Falls Most in Two Weeks After Chinese Export Orders Drop  Copper fell the most in two weeks after export orders slid
for the first time in two years in  China , the world’s biggest
consumer of the metal.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Cargill Boosts Texas Hog Output as U.S. Pork Exports Seen Rising  Cargill Inc., the fourth-largest U.S. pork processor,
predicts U.S. exports of the meat will keep climbing and plans
to begin breeding hogs this month at a farm it bought from a
competitor.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Commodities Drop as Slower-Growth Speculation Curbs Demand (3)  Commodities slumped, paced by wheat and zinc, on
speculation that slowing manufacturing will curb demand for raw
materials.  MINING:  Iron-Ore Prices Holding Near Record Levels, Credit Suisse Says  Fourth-quarter iron ore contract prices will be set less
than 1 percent lower than the current quarter, remaining near
record levels, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Gold Futures Drop After U.S. Manufacturing Unexpectedly Expands  Gold fell for the first time in three days after a report
showing unexpected growth in U.S. manufacturing bolstered
optimism in the economy and eroded demand for the precious metal
as a haven asset.  Gold Prices Will Top $2,000 an Ounce by Year-End, Wilson Says  Gold prices are poised to top $2,000 an ounce by year-end
 David Wilson , a metals analyst at Societe Generale SA, said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  AGRICULTURE:  Corn, Soy Crops Will Be Smaller Than USDA Forecast, FCStone Says  Corn and soybean output in the U.S., the world’s largest
grower and exporter, will fall below government forecasts, said
INTL FCStone Inc., a commodity research and brokerage company.  Orange Juice Gains on Weather Concerns; Cotton Little Changed  Orange-juice futures had their biggest gain in almost three
weeks on mounting concern that citrus crops in  Florida , the
world’s second-largest grower, may be damaged during  hurricane
season . Cotton was little changed.  Corn, Soybeans Decline as Rallies Curb U.S. Export Sales  Corn fell the most in two months, following a 15 percent
gain in August, and soybeans dropped from a three-year high on
signs of slowing demand for supplies from the U.S., the world’s
biggest shipper of the crops.  Wheat Futures Decline Most in Three Weeks as U.S. Exports Slump  Wheat futures fell the most in three weeks on signs that
demand for U.S. supplies is slowing.  Hog Futures Fall on Signs of Rising U.S. Supplies; Cattle Drop  Hog futures fell for the fifth straight session, capping
the longest slump since late April, amid signs of increasing
U.S. pork supplies. Cattle declined to a one-week low.  Coffee Rises as Factory Gauge Shows Growth; Cocoa, Sugar Fall  Coffee rose for an eighth session, the longest rally since
2004, after an unexpected expansion of U.S. manufacturing eased
concern that the economic recovery is faltering. Cocoa and sugar
fell.  SHIPPING:  Rio Tinto Pays 2011’s Highest Rent to Charter  Iron-Ore  Vessel  Rio Tinto Group paid this year’s highest rent for a
capesize vessel to carry iron ore to China from  Australia ,
potentially signaling an end to slumping hire costs for dry-bulk
ships.  ECONOMIES:  Global Manufacturing Slump May Cause Central Bank Stimulus (1)  Manufacturing slumped in Europe and  Asia , adding to signs
of slowing global growth that may keep a lid on inflation and
encourage some central banks to step up stimulus measures.  U.S. Economy : Surprise Factory Growth Eases Recession Worry (2)  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly expanded in August,
allaying concern the world’s largest economy is headed for
another recession.  El-Erian Sees ECB Cutting Rates as Europe Recession Risks Rise  The  European Central Bank  will probably cut  interest rates 
as the chance of a recession in the  euro zone  has risen to 50
percent, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview.  Jobless Claims in U.S. Fell by 12,000 to 409,000 Last Week (3)  Applications for U.S. unemployment benefits fell last week
as the influence of the strike at Verizon Communications Inc.
waned.  U.S. Consumer Comfort Falls as Confidence in Economy Slumps  Consumer confidence  declined last week as sentiment about
the U.S. economy slumped to the second-lowest level in two
years.  OTHER MARKETS:  U.S. Stocks Fall Ahead of Tomorrow’s Jobs Report; Banks Slump  U.S. stocks retreated, snapping a four-day advance for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, as banks fell and investors
speculated that tomorrow’s jobs report will show the world’s
largest economy continues to struggle.  Dollar Gains as Factory Report Eases Fed Speculation; Real Drops  The dollar rose to a two-week high versus the currencies of
six major trade partners as stronger-than-forecast factory data
damped bets the  Federal Reserve  may take further steps to
stimulate growth, debasing the currency.  Brazil  Real Weakens, Rate Futures Yields Fall After Surprise Cut  Brazil’s real weakened the most in a week, yields on
interest-rate futures fell and stocks rose after the central
bank unexpectedly cut borrowing costs in a bid to protect the
economy from a worldwide slump.  Oil Rises to Four-Week High as Companies Evacuate Gulf Platforms  Crude oil  rose to a four-week high in  New York  as a low-
pressure system in the  Gulf of Mexico  that will probably develop
into a storm led energy companies evacuate platforms and rigs in
the Gulf of Mexico.  SPORTS:  PGA Tour Extends CBS, NBC Television Deals Through 2021 (1)  The U.S.  PGA Tour  reached nine-year television contract
extensions with CBS Corp. and Comcast Corp.’s NBC through 2021
as the networks prepare to focus more on golf’s rising stars and
less on  Tiger Woods .  Manchester United Has Record $180 Million Operating Profit (2)  Manchester United’s parent company posted a record full-
year operating profit of 110.9 million pounds ($180 million) as
the English soccer champion plans a $1 billion initial public
offering in  Singapore .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  