-- 
Asia-Pacific Retail Rents Lead Gains; New York Fifth Avenue Keeps Top Spot

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 
2011-09-01T05:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/asia-pacific-retail-rents-lead-gains-new-york-fifth-avenue-keeps-top-spot.html
Asia-Pacific nations led a global
recovery in prime retail rents as tenants sought to expand in
the region, while  New York ’s Fifth Avenue kept its spot as the
world’s most expensive shopping strip.  Rents across the Asia-Pacific region climbed 12.2 percent,
the Americas rose 7.4 percent and those in  Europe  increased 1.9
percent, according to a survey of 63 nations by real estate
services company Cushman & Wakefield. Rents across the globe
advanced almost 5 percent in the year to June after a decline of
about 1.5 percent a year earlier, according to the report.  “Retailers continue to expand in the  Middle East  and Japan,
but China, India and to some extent South America remain the
focus of attention for many of the world’s leading retailers,”
said John Strachan, global head of retail at Cushman.  An influx of visitors from mainland  China  is helping
support Hong Kong’s economy by boosting spending and demand, and
U.S. consumers, while cautious, are stepping up spending as the
economy recovers. A weak U.S. dollar also bolstered tourism and
luxury sales, contributing to rental growth of 11 percent,
Cushman said.  Beijing’s Wangfujing had the biggest increase among the 278
shopping areas surveyed, soaring almost 110 percent. Sydney’s
Pitt Street Mall, the fourth-most expensive shopping street in
the world, was the biggest gainer among the top 10, jumping 33.3
percent from the previous year.  Rents along New York’s Fifth Avenue climbed 21.6 percent
during the year, keeping the top spot for the 10th year, while
Hong Kong’s Causeway Bay was the second-most expensive street,
followed by  Tokyo ’s Ginza.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  