-- 
Asian Currencies Gain on Optimism Global Recovery Is Intact

-- B y   K h a l i d   Q a y u m
-- 
2011-09-01T09:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/asian-currencies-gain-on-optimism-global-recovery-is-intact.html
Asian currencies advanced, with the
Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index trading near the highest
level in two weeks, on optimism the global economic recovery is
still intact.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares rose for a sixth day
as  China ’s manufacturing index rebounded from a 29-month low in
August and U.S. factory orders increased more than estimated in
July. Global investors bought $569 million more equities in
 South Korea  and Taiwan than they sold in the first three days of
this week, exchange data show.  “The strength in Asian currencies is driven by strong
performance in equities,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Singapore. “There
is a risk-taking environment.”  The won appreciated 0.5 percent to 1,061.30 per dollar as
of the 3 p.m. close in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Taiwan’s dollar strengthened 0.2 percent to
NT$28.96 and the Philippine peso gained 0.1 percent to 42.237.
 Thailand ’s baht was little changed at 29.96.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 50.9 in August from
50.7 a month earlier, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today. A reading above 50 signals expansion.
Commerce Department figures showed yesterday that orders placed
with U.S. factories climbed 2.4 percent in July, compared with
the 2 percent forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation Control  The won advanced for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak since July 4, on speculation policy makers will favor
currency gains to tame the fastest inflation in three years.
Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier in August
after increasing 4.7 percent the previous month, Statistics
Korea said today.  “The authorities are believed to be using the  currency
market  to keep inflation under control,” said Ryoo Hyun Jung,
chief currency dealer at Citibank Inc. in Seoul. “Around the
1,060 level, the market will see importers coming in, preventing
a rapid advance.”  Taiwan’s dollar gained for a fourth day, with the currency
breaching NT$29 against the U.S. currency for the first time in
a week. International funds bought $214 million more of the
island’s shares than they sold yesterday, according to exchange
data.  “Foreign capital is flowing into the Taiwan market,” said
 Henry Lin , a Taipei-based foreign-exchange trader at Taiwan Shin
Kong Commercial Bank. “That’s why the Taiwan dollar has broken
NT$29.”  Elsewhere, Singapore’s dollar declined 0.1 percent to
S$1.2035 per  U.S. dollar  and China’s yuan was steady at 6.3802.
Financial markets in Indonesia,  India  and Malaysia were closed
today for national holidays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khalid Qayum in  Singapore  at 
 kqayum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  