-- 
Asian Manufacturing Slowdown May Aid Region’s Campaign to Stem Inflation

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-01T06:56:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/asian-manufacturing-slowdown-may-aid-region-s-campaign-to-stem-inflation.html
Chinese export orders fell for the
first time in two years in August, and manufacturing in South
 Korea  and  Taiwan  contracted, underscoring signs of slowing
growth that may help dissipate Asian inflation pressures.  An index of Chinese manufacturing was at 50.9, near a 29-
month low, the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing 
reported today. Similar gauges for  South Korea  and Taiwan were
at 49.7 and 45.2, below the expansion-contraction point of 50,
data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics showed.  “Slowing growth will ease some of the demand-side
pressures across Asia” on consumer prices, said Euben Paracuelles, a Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Our sense is that central banks in Asia are basically done
with their monetary policy tightening,” with Taiwan and India
among the few that may still raise  interest rates , he said.  Inflation, which in South Korea reached a three-year high
in August, has eroded consumers’ purchasing power across Asia,
spurring protests from China to India. Any lasting sign of
moderation in consumer prices may let some central banks shift
toward considering an easing in policy, following  Brazil ’s
interest-rate cut yesterday, said  Tim Condon , head of Asia
research at ING Groep NV in  Singapore .  “We have seen the worst and inflation will slowly
subside,” said Condon. “Some may even be thinking if they can
ease monetary policy to stimulate the economy.”  Stocks Gain  Stocks rose, with the MSCI Asia Pacific index advancing 0.7
percent, heading for a sixth straight session of gains. South
Korea’s Kospi index closed little changed after government
figures showed consumer prices increased 5.3 percent in August.
The  Bank of Korea  meets next week to set interest rates.  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index report, based on a
survey of more than 820 companies in 20 industries, showed the
weakest export-orders reading since March 2009. A separate gauge
released by HSBC and Markit indicated a second straight
contraction in Chinese manufacturing.  Li Dongrong, an assistant governor at the People’s Bank of
China, said today that global liquidity, labor costs and
resource pricing reforms are contributing to price pressures,
which remain “controllable.” He spoke at a forum in Beijing.  Raw-Material Prices  Angang Steel Co., the largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese
steelmaker by market value, said last week first-half profit
tumbled 91 percent because of slowing demand from automakers and
higher raw material costs. Shares in Geely Automobile Holdings
Ltd., whose parent owns Volvo Cars, fell to their lowest in
almost two years in  Hong Kong  trading on Aug. 22 after saying
demand for vehicles in China is showing signs of slowing.  In Korea, LG Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker
of liquid-crystal displays, may cut spending next year as
slowing flat-screen television sales damp demand, Chief
Executive Officer Kwon Young Soo said last month. Samsung
Electronics Co. reported an 18 percent drop in profit for the
second quarter.  South Korean industrial production fell 0.4 percent in July
from the previous month, a government report showed yesterday.
 Japan , Asia’s second-largest economy, saw output rise 0.6
percent, less than half the median estimate for a 1.4 percent
advance in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  ‘Highly Susceptible’  “There is little to suggest that large parts of  Asia 
remain anything other than highly susceptible to growth
developments in the U.S. and  Europe ,” Credit Suisse Group AG
economists, including  Robert Prior-Wandesforde  in Singapore,
wrote in a note today.  U.S. reports later this week are forecast to show
manufacturing shrank in August and the  unemployment rate  held at
9.1 percent, according to the Bloomberg survey median estimates.
In Europe, where policy makers have yet to contain a sovereign
debt crisis that erupted two years ago in  Greece , confidence in
the economic outlook slumped the most since 2008 in August.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled yesterday that a
faltering global recovery and turbulence in financial markets
have yet to convince the government to switch from a focus on
taming inflation. In the latest tightening, the central bank
will expand banks’ reserve requirements, starting from Sept. 5.  Wen said the slowdown in the economy is “reasonable” and
within government expectations, according to an article he wrote
in Qiushi, the magazine of the ruling Communist Party.  ‘Soft Landing’  “The economy is heading towards a soft landing but
uncertainties are looming, which means policy makers may not
want to tighten monetary policy further,” said Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Fiscal
policy may be more proactive to support areas such as small and
medium-sized enterprises.”  In the  Philippines , data this week showed growth slowed for
a fourth straight quarter, with gross domestic product
increasing 3.4 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 4.6
percent gain in the three months through March. President
Benigno Aquino has pledged to boost growth to as much as 8
percent annually.  Inflation, which accelerated to a 26-month high of 5.2
percent in June, has already starting coming down in the
Philippines with consumer prices projected to increase the least
since January in August. Higher costs have hurt profits at
companies including Jollibee Foods Corp., the nation’s largest
restaurant operator, and food company RFM Corp., which said in
July it may miss its earnings target this year.  Extended ‘Pause’  Bank of America Merrill Lynch economists, paring their
projections for tighter monetary policy in Asia in an Aug. 26
research note, said they “expect most central banks in Asia to
remain on pause until 2012.”  India  and  Thailand  may still boost
borrowing costs, they said.  Thailand saw inflation accelerate in August, with a 4.29
percent year-on-year rate that was the highest since 2008,
government figures showed today.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation rate has stayed
above 9 percent since the start of December and was 9.22 percent
in July after the government allowed state-run companies such as
Indian Oil Corp. to increase diesel costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  