-- 
Hassell Caps 38-Year Climb From Trainee to BNY Mellon CEO Replacing Kelly

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/hassell-caps-38-year-climb-from-trainee-to-bny-mellon-ceo-replacing-kelly.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s
Gerald Hassell, who started as a management trainee 38 years ago
and became president in 1998, got the top job with the departure
of Chief Executive Officer Robert P. Kelly.  Hassell, 59, joined Bank of  New York  Co.’s management
development program in 1973 and rose through the ranks. He kept
the president’s title when Kelly, 57, was named CEO after Bank
of New York bought Mellon Financial Corp. in 2007 and changed
its name to Bank of New York Mellon.  “He knows and understands the company probably more than
anyone on the planet,” Dick Bove, an analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida , said yesterday in an interview.  Kelly, who had run Mellon before the takeover, stepped down
as chairman and CEO yesterday because of differences with
directors in his approach to running the company,  BNY Mellon 
said in a statement, without elaborating on the reasons behind
the split. Jeep Bryant, a company spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the statement.  BNY Mellon shares trade at about the same level they did in
early 1997 after a 32 percent decline this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company, the world’s biggest
custody bank, said Aug. 10 it planned to cut 1,500 jobs, or 3
percent of the workforce, after expenses surged in the second
quarter.  Hassell, who early in his career held positions in the
credit and corporate banking divisions, was named to Bank of New
York’s executive committee in 1994. He was elected to its board
of directors in 1998.  No Change Expected  “This doesn’t reflect any change in strategy or business
model,”  Marty Mosby , a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst with
Guggenheim Securities LLC, said in an interview. “Hassell has
been a big part of running the company.”  Hassell has had direct management responsibility for the
company’s range of investment services businesses, including
asset servicing and issuer, broker-dealer, treasury and clearing
services, BNY Mellon said in the statement. He also oversees
client management across the company’s global businesses, as
well as operations and technology.  “Gerald has led nearly every major division of the
company, has been a key decision maker on every major business
action, executive hire and promotion in the merged company, and
has served on its board of directors,” Wesley W. von Schack,
lead director of BNY Mellon, said in the statement.  $11.2 Million  Hassell earned $11.2 million in 2010, a 75 percent increase
over 2009. He was the third-highest paid executive at BNY Mellon
last year after Kelly and Curtis Arledge, who heads the asset-
management unit, according to regulatory filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Kelly made $19.4 million in
2010, including salary, stock awards and incentive compensation,
a 38 percent increase from the previous year. Arledge earned
$11.8 million.  As of Feb. 24, Hassell owned 980,385 shares in BNY Mellon,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Hassell holds a master’s degree in business administration
in finance from the  New York University Stern School of Business 
and a bachelor’s degree in economics from  Duke University .
Hassell joined the board of trustees at Duke University, in
Durham,  North Carolina , on July 1.  He is also a director of Comcast Corp., the Philadelphia-
based cable TV company, and serves on the board of visitors at
New York’s  Columbia University Medical Center , and the boards of
the  New York Philharmonic , the  Economic Club of New York  and the
National September 11 Memorial & Museum, according to the
company’s statement.  BNY Mellon reported a 12 percent increase in second-quarter
earnings as acquisitions and market gains lifted assets and the
fees from overseeing them. The bank had assets under custody of
$26.3 trillion and assets under management of $1.3 trillion at
the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  