-- 
AT&T Dealt Deal Defeat After $12M in Lobbying

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/at-t-s-12-million-lobbying-spree-fails-to-prevent-rare-antitrust-setback.html
The U.S. move to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. marks a rare  Washington  defeat for
the largest U.S. phone company, a failure deal opponents called
a triumph of antitrust analysis over lobbying muscle.  As it sought regulators’ blessing for the transaction, AT&T
boosted lobbying spending by 30 percent to $11.7 million in the
first six months of 2011 from the same period last year,
according to Senate records. Its PAC gave $805,500 to federal
candidates this year, more than any other company, according to
the  Center for Responsive Politics , a Washington research group.  The company’s lobbying strategy has been guided by 13-year
company veteran  Jim Cicconi , a Washington insider since serving
in the Reagan White House. It produced letters to regulators
from more than 70 members of Congress, multiple economic studies
aimed at supporting the deal, and a pledge to preserve 5,000
jobs. Nonetheless, the  Justice Department  yesterday sued  to
halt the $39 billion deal, calling it harmful to competition.  AT&T “never understood that the facts were so bad that no
amount of political pressure was going to make a difference,”
 Gigi Sohn , president of the Washington-based advocacy group
 Public Knowledge  that opposes the deal, said in an interview
with Bloomberg Government. “Kudos to the Justice Department and
the Obama administration for keeping politics out of it.”  Andrew Lipman, a Washington-based communications lawyer
with Bingham McCutchen LLP, said the Justice Department’s
lawsuit is the first U.S. action he can recall seeking to block
an AT&T merger in his 35 years of practice.  “The Justice Department is extremely independent,” Lipman
said in an interview. “That’s historically been the case, and
is especially the case in this administration.”  Volley of Calls  AT&T’s campaign in Washington began March 20 as the
proposed purchase of the  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  unit was announced,
with a volley of Sunday phone calls to members of the Federal
Communications Commission, which hasn’t concluded its review.  In succeeding weeks, AT&T won the support of traditional
Democratic constituencies including the  Communications Workers
of America  and the International Association of Teamsters.
Executives of Dallas-based AT&T testified twice to Congress.  The company hired three outside lobbying groups to work for
the merger, and brought in former congressional aides. Congress,
which doesn’t play a direct role in deal reviews, oversees the
agencies vetting the transaction.  “They were employing both contributions and lobbying to
smooth the way, but there is always a tension between the money
and the merits,”  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the
Center for Responsive Politics, said in an interview. “Cash
constituents will not win if there is a perception of this being
contrary to the public interest.”  Opponents’ Counterattack  As AT&T worked in Washington’s suites, opponents including
 Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , Dish Network Corp., and the advocacy groups
 Consumers Union  and Free Press told regulators the deal would
lead to job losses and higher prices as competition diminished.
The merger would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers
to create a new market leader ahead of  Verizon Wireless , leaving
Sprint a distant third.  Sprint spent less than one-sixth as much on lobbying as
AT&T this year, distributing $1.9 million in the first six
months of 2011, compared with $1.3 million in the same period a
year earlier, according to Senate records. Sprint’s PAC gave
$95,500 to federal candidates this year, according to the Center
for Responsive Politics.  “There was a general perception that the political winds
were blowing against” regulators’ rejecting the deal,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in an interview. “It shows the political pressures didn’t
outweigh the antitrust process.”  ‘No Indication’  AT&T fell $1.14, or 3.9 percent, to $28.48 in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday. Deutsche Telekom’s
American depositary receipts dropped 7.3 percent to $12.78. Each
ADR represents one ordinary share.  Overland Park , Kansas-based
Sprint’s shares jumped as much as 9.9 percent on the news before
closing at $3.76, a 5.9 percent gain.  “There was no indication from the DOJ that this action was
being contemplated,” Wayne Watts, the company’s general
counsel, said in an e-mail. Michael Balmoris, a Washington-based
AT&T spokesman, replied to questions about the company’s
lobbying by referring to Watts’s statement. E-mail and phone
requests for comment from Cicconi were not returned.  “We have been in constant dialogue with the parties,”
Sharis Pozen, the acting head of the Justice Department’s
antitrust division, said at a news conference yesterday. “We
apprised them of our serious concerns.”  Liable to Pay  AT&T intends to “vigorously contest” the Justice
Department’s move in court, Watts said.  Rejection by regulators would leave AT&T liable to pay
Deutsche Telekom $3 billion and to give T-Mobile wireless
spectrum, Deutsche Telekom has said.  AT&T acted from the start as if the deal’s approval were
inevitable, Steven Berry, president of the Washington-based
Rural Cellular Association, who opposes the merger, said in an
interview.  Berry recalls working through weeks when AT&T’s
advertisements touting the merger appeared seemingly daily in
Washington trade publications and on television.  “There were days I’d say, ‘My goodness, am I going to
break through?’” Berry said. His group represents more than 100
rural mobile-phone carriers including U.S. Cellular Corp. and
 Atlantic Tele-Network Inc. (ATNI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  