-- 
AT&T, Cerberus, Primary Global, BofA, Pfizer in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-09-01T11:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/at-t-cerberus-primary-global-tcw-bofa-pfizer-in-court-news.html
The U.S. Justice Department sued to
block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile USA
Inc., saying the deal would “substantially lessen competition”
in the wireless market.  The government is seeking a declaration that AT&T’s
takeover of T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , would
violate U.S. antitrust law, according to a complaint filed
yesterday in federal court in  Washington . The U.S. also asked
for a court order blocking implementation of the deal, the
largest announced acquisition of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson’s proposed
purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile, announced in
March, would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to
create a new market leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless. The
new company would dwarf current No. 3 carrier  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , which argued against the deal.  “AT&T’s elimination of T-Mobile as an independent, low-
priced rival would remove a significant competitive force from
the market,” the government said in court papers.  AT&T said it was surprised by the government suit and that
it will ask for an expedited hearing in the matter.  “We have met repeatedly with the Department of Justice and
there was no indication from the DOJ that this action was being
contemplated,” Wayne Watts, AT&T’s general counsel, said in a
statement. He said the company intends to fight the litigation.  Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom said in an e-mailed statement
that it too would contest the U.S. government suit.  “DOJ failed to acknowledge the robust competition in the
U.S. wireless telecommunications industry and the tremendous
efficiencies associated with the proposed transaction,” the
German company said, adding it appreciates the Justice
Department’s “willingness to discuss possible remedies” to
address the competitive concerns.  “The important point is that the Justice Department has
gone ahead and challenged a big merger of competitors, which it
just hasn’t done,” said Eleanor Fox, a law professor at  New
York  University. “People were getting used to seeing press
releases saying the Justice Department has agreed to merger XYZ
with a spinoff.”  The FCC said that it was continuing its review. In an e-
mailed statement FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said the record
before the agency “raises serious concerns about the impact of
the proposed transaction on competition.”  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Cerberus, Chatham Face October Trial in Innkeepers Lawsuit  Cerberus Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT) 
will face an Oct. 10 trial over their backing out of a deal to
buy hotels from Innkeepers USA Trust, a bankrupt operator of
Residence Inns, Marriott hotels and Hampton Inns.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman in Manhattan set
the expedited trial schedule yesterday. Innkeepers sued Cerberus
and Chatham Aug. 29 seeking to force them to honor the deal to
buy 64 hotels or pay damages.  The approved Chapter 11 plan by the operator of 71 hotels
rested on the sale. Cerberus and Chatham said Aug. 22 they’d
ended the $1.1 billion agreement, citing a possible adverse
change that could affect Innkeepers’ long-term business. They
didn’t say what the change was.  “It’s a fairly well circumscribed issue” over whether
there was a legitimate material adverse change, Chapman said
yesterday.  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of Leon Black’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, filed
for bankruptcy in July 2010 with a pre-arranged reorganization
plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman Ali, a unit of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which was rejected by creditors.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Primary Global Executive’s Conspiracy Trial Begins  The insider-trading conspiracy trial of former Primary
Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman will include
testimony from ex-technology executives implicated in the
alleged plot, the U.S. said.  Fleishman, of Santa Clara, California, went on trial
yesterday before U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan on
two counts of conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors say
was a two-yearlong insider-trading scheme. Fleishman, who has
pleaded not guilty, faces as long as 25 years in prison if
convicted.  The defendant worked with “a corrupt network of insiders”
at technology companies who “sold out their employers by
stealing and then peddling their valuable inside information,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said at the time the
charges were announced in December.  A jury was selected yesterday to hear the case, which
Rakoff said would last about three weeks. Two men who have
entered guilty pleas in the insider probe, Mark Anthony Longoria, a former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  manager, and
Daniel DeVore, a former supply manager for  Dell Inc. (DELL) , have
agreed to testify against Fleishman, assistant U.S. attorneys
Antonia Apps and David Leibowitz said.  Thirteen people have been convicted in the crackdown,
including 12 who pleaded guilty. Winifred Jiau, a former Primary
Global consultant was convicted at trial in June of securities
fraud and conspiracy for passing inside tips about Nvdia Corp.
and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers.  Primary Global, based in Mountain View, California, links
investors with industry experts at public companies. In his
position as a sales manager, Fleishman was responsible for
attracting new clients and arranging for fund managers to speak
to consultants, the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Ex-Galleon Trader Drimal Sentenced to 5 1/2 Years in Prison  Former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund trader Craig Drimal,
who took part in an insider trading scheme that stretched from
technology firms to pharmaceutical companies, was sentenced to 5
½ years in prison.  Drimal, 55, pleaded guilty in April in to conspiracy and
securities fraud, admitting that he and others at Galleon traded
on inside information obtained from lawyers working on
transactions involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. Drimal
said the information was obtained from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  Prosecutors had asked U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan,
who handed down the 66 month-term yesterday in Manhattan, to
sentence Drimal within the federal guidelines range of 70 to 87
months. Drimal had sought community service or home confinement
in lieu of a prison term, prosecutors said.  The government said in court papers that a “strong message
of deterrence to others in the hedge fund community” must be
sent, and that the “nature and extent of his criminal conduct
doesn’t warrant community service.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  TCW Rests Case in Gundlach Trial Over Trade Secrets, Fees  TCW Group Inc. rested its case in the trial that pits the
asset-management firm against its former chief investment
officer,  Jeffrey Gundlach .  Former TCW president Bill Sonneborn, now chief executive
officer of KKR Financial Holdings LLC, was the last witness TCW
called to support its claims that Gundlach and three other
former employees stole TCW’s trade secrets to start DoubleLine
Capital LP, the rival asset-management business Gundlach set up
10 days after TCW fired him in December 2009.  “I encouraged him to terminate Jeffrey,” Sonneborn told
the jurors, recalling an August 2009 conversation he had with
TCW CEO Marc Stern. Sonneborn, who had left TCW in 2008, said he
told Stern that Gundlach was becoming a disease or a cancer for
the company. Sonneborn said Stern was unwilling to fire Gundlach
at that time because he was too important for TCW.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW’s damages
expert told jurors in California state court in Los Angeles that
the company suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s
alleged interference with contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  Gundlach, who testified for four days, has denied that
DoubleLine used any of TCW’s trade secrets or proprietary
information and said that DoubleLine employees were told to turn
over any TCW files they might have had. Gundlach told the jury
that the success of his funds was due to “experience and
thinking” rather than to analytical systems.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Pfizer Settles Lipitor Suit With Generic Maker Dr. Reddy’s  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, settled a
patent-infringement lawsuit with the Indian generic-drug maker
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. over the cholesterol treatment
Lipitor. The terms weren’t disclosed.  Pfizer, based in New York, sued Dr. Reddy’s in December
2009 to block generic copies of Lipitor from coming out before
Pfizer’s patent for the tablets expires in 2017. The companies
settled on Aug. 19, and U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark in
Wilmington, Delaware, dismissed the case Aug. 29, according to
court records.  “We have closed our litigation with Pfizer, but the date
of entry into the market is not yet confirmed,” Kedar Upadhye,
a spokesman for Dr. Reddy’s, said in a statement yesterday. The
agreement is subject to review by the U.S. Justice Department
and the Federal Trade Commission, the company said.  “We can confirm that we have reached an agreement with Dr.
Reddy’s regarding a patent case involving Lipitor,”  Christopher Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Terms of the agreement are confidential.”  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and Mylan Inc. also
have reached settlements with Pfizer to sell generic forms of
Lipitor, known chemically as atorvastatin.  The case is Pfizer v. Dr. Reddy’s, 1:09-cv-00943, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 5,969,156.  J. Crew, Funds Said to Reach $16 Million Settlement Over Buyout  J. Crew Group Inc. and the two private-equity firms buying
the retailer agreed to pay $16 million to resolve investor
lawsuits over the deal, reviving a previous settlement that had
collapsed, three people familiar with the matter said.  Executives of New York-based J. Crew and buyout firms  TPG
Capital LP  and Leonard Green & Partners LP, who acquired the
clothing-store chain for $3 billion, agreed to add an additional
$6 million to the original $10 million settlement to end
litigation over the buyout, the people said yesterday.  J. Crew sued a group of shareholders in  Delaware Chancery
Court  in Wilmington in May in a bid to enforce the original $10
million settlement, which collapsed four months earlier. The new
accord will resolve the company’s suit as well as investors’
challenges to the acquisition, said the people, who didn’t want
to be identified because the agreement wasn’t public.  TPG, based in Fort Worth, Texas, and Los Angeles-based
Leonard Green agreed in November to buy J. Crew for $43.50 a
share. The company operates 250 retail stores under brands
including Madewell and 85 factory outlet locations, as well as a
catalog business. A majority of J. Crew’s shareholders voted to
approve the buyout in March.  Margot Fooshee, a J. Crew spokeswoman, and TPG spokesman
 Owen Blicksilver  declined to comment.  Cody Franklin , a spokesman for Leonard Green, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Stuart Grant , a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer representing the
pension funds that challenged the buyout, also didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Chancery Court Chief Judge Leo Strine still must approve
the new settlement before it becomes final. No date has been set
for that hearing, according to court dockets.  The case is In re J. Crew Shareholders Litigation, 6043,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  Diamondback Capital Trader Settles SEC Insider-Trading Case  An ex-portfolio manager for Diamondback Capital Management
LLC, Anthony Scolaro, agreed to pay about $203,000 to settle an
insider-trading lawsuit filed against him by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Scolaro, 50, trading on Diamondback’s behalf, was accused
of reaping $1.1 million for the Stamford-Connecticut based hedge
fund by trading on inside information about Axcan Pharma Inc.
late in 2007. He agreed to disgorge $140,400 in principal and
interest and pay a $63,000 penalty, the SEC said in a  statement .
Diamondback, also named as a relief defendant, agreed to
disgorge $1.07 million in principal and interest, according to
the SEC.  The allegations were related to a criminal case in which
Scolaro pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges stemming from
the Galleon Group LLC investigation, the agency said yesterday
in a complaint in U.S. District Court in New York.  Scolaro’s November 2010 plea of guilty to insider trading
was unsealed in May. He hasn’t been sentenced. His attorney,
 William Brodsky , didn’t immediately reply to a telephone message
seeking comment on yesterday’s filing.  Diamondback disclosed the settlement to its investors in a
letter yesterday, Steven Bruce, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  “The complaint contains no allegations of misconduct by
Diamondback,” the firm said, adding that it and not its
investors will pay for the settlement.  The case is SEC v. Diamondback Capital Management LLC, 11-
cv-6112, in the U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  New York Attorney General Deposed 53 in Bank of America Case  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s office has
taken testimony from 53 witnesses in its investigation into  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ’s 2008 acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co., a
federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan said in an
order yesterday that “there have been 53 examinations under
oath by the NYAG” in its investigation. The witnesses weren’t
identified in the order, which involved evidence gathering in
the case.  Castel, who is overseeing separate shareholder litigation
over the Merrill Lynch deal, said the depositions overlap with
information sought by both sides in the litigation in his court.  The attorney general’s office, under Andrew Cuomo, now New
York’s governor, sued Bank of America, former Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth Lewis and former Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Price  in February 2010.  Cuomo accused Bank of America of misleading shareholders
about huge losses at Merrill Lynch to win approval of the deal
and then manipulating the federal government into contributing
bailout funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program to complete
it.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, had no
immediate comment on Castel’s order. Bob Stickler, a Bank of
America spokesman, said in an e-mail that all of the depositions
were taken while Cuomo was attorney general.  “The vast majority of them were in 2009 and early 2010,”
Stickler said. “There is nothing new on the deposition front.”  The case is In re Bank of America Corp. Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Parmalat Judge Reaffirms Dismissal of Grant Thornton Cases  A U.S. judge reaffirmed his ruling in two suits by  Parmalat
SpA (PLT)  against accounting firm Grant Thornton LLP.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan yesterday
ruled that he was correct in taking the two cases, which were
originally filed by Parmalat and its Parmalat Capital Finance
Ltd. unit in Illinois state court in 2004 and 2005. Kaplan
dismissed the suits in 2009.  In January, a federal appeals court in Manhattan revived
the cases, ruling that Kaplan had applied the wrong standard in
determining whether to exercise jurisdiction.  The appeals court sent the cases back to Kaplan to
determine whether federal law required him to abstain from
taking them in favor of the Illinois courts. Kaplan, applying
the rule set by the appeals court, said yesterday that he was
entitled to rule in the cases.  Parmalat, a dairy company based in Collecchio, Italy,
collapsed in December 2003 in the country’s largest bankruptcy,
later disclosing more than 14 billion euros ($20.1 billion) of
debt, about eight times the amount reported by its former
management. Parmalat SpA emerged from bankruptcy and returned to
the stock market in 2005.  Enrico Bondi, who was appointed to oversee the Parmalat
bankruptcy, sued Grant Thornton, claiming it aided in the fraud
that led to Parmalat’s collapse. Parmalat Capital also sued the
firm.  The case is In re Parmalat Securities Litigation, 04-
cv-1653, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  New Suits  Venoco Sued by Shareholder Over $770.2 Million Buyout Offer  A  Venoco Inc. (VQ)  investor sued to block a bid by the company’s
founder to take the oil and gas producer private.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Timothy Marquez’s
$770.2 million offer is unfair to shareholders and undervalues
the company, shareholder James G. Prince said yesterday in a
complaint in Delaware Chancery Court. Prince asked that the case
be a class-action suit including other Venoco shareholders.  “Marquez strategically timed the proposed transaction
during a period of economic turmoil in which the terms of the
proposed transaction could be superficially viewed in a positive
light,” lawyers for Prince wrote.  Marquez, who holds 50.3 percent of the Denver-based oil and
gas company’s shares, offered this week to buy the rest for
$12.50 each.  Phil McPherson, a Newport Beach, California-based analyst
with Global Hunter Securities LLC, said Aug. 29 that the offer
represents a significant discount to the value of the company’s
assets and may prompt investor lawsuits and a potentially higher
bid from another oil producer.  Venoco, founded in 1992, is the second-largest landholder
in California’s Monterey oil-shale formation.  Mike Edwards, a spokesman for Venoco, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is Prince v. Venoco Inc., CA6823, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  CareFusion Sues Hospira Over Drug-Delivery System Patents  CareFusion Corp. (CFN)  sued  Hospira Inc. (HSP)  over patents for drug-
delivery systems and is seeking a jury trial, damages and an
order barring infringement.  Hospira, based in Lake Forest, Illinois, is using protected
technology in products including the  Symbiq , Plum and LifeCare
brand of infusion equipment, CareFusion said in papers filed
Aug. 30 in federal court in Wilmington, Delaware.  “The evidence will likely show” that Hospira has “acted
with disregard of CareFusion’s patent rights, without any
reasonable basis for doing so,” and should pay lost profits and
royalties to San Diego-based CareFusion, according to the
complaint.  CareFusion itself was sued Aug. 29 in federal court in
Chicago by rival B. Braun Medical Inc. over infusion-pump
patents, according to a B. Braun statement.  “We think we’ve got a strong position in this suit and our
plan is to vigorously defend it,” said Hospira spokeswoman
Tareta Adams in a telephone interview.  The case is CareFusion v. Hospira, 11-762, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents, click: 7,171,277; 7,835,927.  Sino-Forest Investors Sue Executives for Backdated Stock Options  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  Chief Executive Officer  Allen Chan  and
Chief Financial Officer David Horsley received stock options
that were backdated or mispriced in violation of Toronto Stock
Exchange rules, according to a lawsuit from two investors.  The options include those issued to Chan in 1996 and 2007
and to Horsley in 2005 and 2007, according to a  statement of
claim  sent yesterday by the investors to an Ontario court.  “The defendants profited handsomely from the market’s
resulting appetite for Sino’s securities,” according to the
claim. “Certain of the individual defendants sold Sino shares
at lofty prices, and thereby reaped millions of dollars of
gains.”  The class action was filed by trustees of the Labourers’
Pension Fund of Central and Eastern Canada and the trustees of
the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 793 Pension
Plan for Operating Engineers in Ontario. The plaintiffs are
seeking damages from Sino-Forest, Chan and Horsley and other
defendants.  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for Sino-Forest in New
York, declined to comment. Horsley didn’t immediately respond to
voice-mail messages left at his office and on his mobile phone.
Chan didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment to Sino-
Forest’s Hong Kong offices after regular working hours.  Sino-Forest’s shares were suspended from trading in Toronto
on Aug. 26 after the Ontario Securities Commission said officers
and directors of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company may have engaged in acts “related to its securities”
that they “knew or should have known” perpetuated a fraud.
Chan resigned as CEO two days later.  The case is Trustees of the Labourers’ Pension Fund of
Central and Eastern Canada v. Sino-Forest, 11-4311530, Superior
Court of Justice (Ontario).  Baxter Sues Teva to Enforce Agreement Over Hepatitis Cases  Baxter International Inc. (BAX) , the maker of blood products and
intravenous drugs, sued Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. to
enforce an indemnity agreement over claims the drugmakers sold
the anesthetic propofol in a way that led some patients to
develop hepatitis.  Baxter contends in a Delaware Chancery Court lawsuit that
an arbitration panel found Teva was bound by an agreement to
cover all liability stemming from cases blaming tainted vials of
 propofol  for colonoscopy patients developing hepatitis C. A Las
Vegas jury last year ordered Teva and Baxter to pay more than
$500 million in damages to a Las Vegas school principal on one
such claim.  “Teva is obligated to indemnify Baxter for any and all
claims, damages, liabilities or losses, including” punitive-
damage awards in propofol cases, Deerfield, Illinois-based
Baxter said in the Delaware suit, filed Aug. 30.  The suit comes as a Las Vegas jury is hearing testimony in
the trial of three more cases alleging Teva and Baxter officials
sold propofol in oversized vials that encouraged medical
personnel to reuse the containers for multiple patients. Las
Vegas residents contend they got hepatitis C from the tainted
vials.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment on
Baxter’s suit.  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern Nevada, the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a regulatory filing last month.
Nevada health officials blamed the reuse of propofol vials for
infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.  Teva manufactures the drug and San Francisco-based  McKesson
Corp. (MCK)  is its current U.S. distributor. Baxter sold the drug for
Teva until 2009, according to court filings. Propofol is an
intravenous agent used for sedation or anesthesia, according to
Teva’s  website.   Teva already agreed to settle about one-third of the
hepatitis-related suits alleging patients received propofol from
reused containers, according to a July 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Teva said it set aside an
undisclosed reserve to cover the settlements.  The Delaware case is Baxter International Inc. v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 6819, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington.) The Nevada case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of
Southern Nevada LLC, 08A572315, District Court for Clark County,
Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more, click here.  New Jersey ’s Christie Sued by Unions over Pension, Health Cuts  New Jersey public employee unions, seeking to block a law
reducing pension and health benefits, sued Governor  Chris Christie  and other state officials.  The lawsuit was filed yesterday by more than 20 unions and
individuals, according to federal court records in Trenton, New
Jersey.  The law deprives workers of their due process rights by
suspending pension adjustments, increasing employees’
contributions, underfunding pensions, and delegating to pension
committees an “unrestrained authority to reduce pension and
change eligibility requirements,” according to a copy of the
complaint on the New Jersey Education Association’s website.  Christie signed the bill into law June 28, raising pension
and health-care expenses for public workers, after urging
lawmakers since September to approve measures cutting health-
care costs and reducing a $53.9 billion deficit in the state
pension system. The plan drew protests from teachers,
firefighters and other public workers and was opposed by a
majority of Democratic lawmakers.  The state and other officials in addition to Christie are
named as defendants in the lawsuit.  Michael Drewniak  and Kevin Roberts, both spokesmen for
Christie, didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment after
regular business hours yesterday.  The case is New Jersey Education Association v. State of
New Jersey, 11-05024, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Trenton).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 