-- 
AT&T Losing T-Mobile Seen Spurring Exodus on Dropped Calls: Tech

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 
2011-09-01T20:28:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/at-t-losing-t-mobile-seen-spurring-exodus-on-dropped-calls-tech.html
The U.S. government’s effort to
block the takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. chokes off  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
path to an expanded network and wrecks its plan to gain as much
as $20 billion in airwaves to help handle surging call volume.  The U.S.  Justice Department  yesterday sued to block the
company’s proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
calling it a threat to wireless competition. The deal was struck
to give AT&T the capacity it needs to ease network congestion,
and accelerate the rollout of faster, next-generation network
technology -- key pieces of AT&T’s effort to add subscribers and
step up earnings growth.  If AT&T fails to gain T-Mobile’s network, some of its 98.6
million customers may defect to rivals to avoid dropped calls
and get access to faster services for smartphones and tablets.
Besides paying a $3 billion breakup fee, AT&T would also have to
transfer some of its spectrum to T-Mobile, further squeezing its
network capacity and stalling plans for growth.  “The issue is loss of spectrum,” said  Michael Mahoney , a
senior managing director at San Francisco-based Falcon Point
Capital LLC. “It’s clearly a negative. They’ve been capacity-
constrained because of the huge popularity of the iPhone.”  The purchase would have combined the second- and fourth-
largest U.S. carriers into the nation’s largest wireless-service
provider, helping the enlarged company wring costs and improve
margins.  Verizon Wireless  is the No. 1 wireless service company
in the U.S., and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is the third-biggest.  Long-Term Evolution  When the acquisition was announced March 20, AT&T said it
would expand the introduction of its high-speed wireless
technology, called Long-Term Evolution, or LTE. At the time,
AT&T said it would offer the service to an additional 46.5
million people as part of the deal, helping achieve the Federal
Communications Commission goal of making broadband available
more widely.  The Justice Department is seeking a declaration that AT&T’s
takeover of T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , would
violate U.S. antitrust law, according to a  complaint  filed
yesterday in federal court in  Washington . The U.S. also asked
for a court order blocking implementation of the deal, saying it
would  crimp competition  for wireless services in the U.S.  “There’s no good way to spin this for AT&T,”  Craig Moffett , a senior analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in
a note to investors yesterday.  AT&T, based in  Dallas , said in a statement it plans to
“vigorously contest this matter in court.” AT&T spokesman  Mark Siegel  said the company wasn’t commenting beyond the statement.
Deutsche Telekom said it was disappointed by the action.  Cash, Wireless Spectrum  Deutsche Telekom has said that the deal’s failure would
leave AT&T liable for a breakup package valued at as much as $7
billion, including the $3 billion in cash, wireless spectrum and
reduced charges for calls into AT&T’s network.  As use of data-enabled handsets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
skyrocketed, mobile data traffic on AT&T’s network grew 8,000
percent over the past four years,  the company said .  In December 2009, AT&T finished last in a  Consumer Reports 
customer survey of the top four U.S. wireless carriers, while
Verizon Wireless ranked highest. AT&T shared the bottom spot
with Sprint, Consumer Reports said. Later that month, AT&T
wireless chief Ralph de la Vega called the company’s mobile
performance in  San Francisco  and  New York  unsatisfactory.  AT&T’s spectrum and capacity constraints are already “more
severe than those of any other wireless provider,” according to
Mobilize Everything, a website set up by the merging companies.
And as more consumers buy smartphones and tablets, AT&T expects
data traffic to increase another eight to 10 times by 2015.  Adding Network Capacity  To keep up, AT&T has raced to add more network capacity in
the past several years. This includes expanding its so-called
fiber backhaul capacity, used to move calls and data between
cell towers that communicate with mobile phones. The company
expects as much as 70 percent of its traffic to be sent via
fiber backhaul by year-end, up from less than 30 percent at the
end of 2010, AT&T said earlier this year.  Still, the company needs more airwaves dedicated to
wireless communications, or spectrum -- a limited and expensive
resource -- to stay in step with the surge in customer data use
and subscriber growth.  T-Mobile’s spectrum is worth $15 billion to $20 billion,
said Tim Farrar, founder of Telecom, Media and Finance
Associates Inc., a  Menlo Park , California-based research firm.  “Spectrum is about half of the value of what they bid,”
Farrar said in an interview.  Growth at Risk  If the T-Mobile deal falls through, the company may have to
scale back its plans to deploy faster networking technology,
Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc., said
in an interview. In June, AT&T  pledged to invest  an additional
$8 billion over seven years to integrate the two carriers’
networks and expand LTE technology, which lets mobile devices
link to the Web at faster speeds.  Without the acquisition, the earnings boost expected by
analysts is also at risk, Smithen said.  “Our concern is AT&T is a very modest revenue-growth
company” without T-Mobile, Smithen said. He expected $2 billion
in annual improvements in earnings before costs such as
depreciation and taxes, which would have increased AT&T’s
earnings growth from a percentage in the low single digits to a
percentage in the high single digits, he said.  The company also was expected to reduce monthly churn, or
the average number of subscribers leaving the service, among T-
Mobile customers. A lower rate of defections could widen T-
Mobile’s margins to be on par with AT&T’s, Smithen said.  AT&T’s stock may decline to $25 instead of possibly rising
to $35 if the merger is completed, Smithen said. The shares fell
21 cents to close at $28.27 at on the New York Stock Exchange.  Deutsche Telekom rose 19.3 cents, or 2.2 percent, to close
at 9 euros in Frankfurt trading. The stock has dropped 6.8
percent this year.  While AT&T still might seek to acquire spectrum from other
companies, such as  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , Dish Network Corp.,  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  or LightSquared Inc., any other deals are now going to be
viewed with skepticism because they are likely to face similar
regulatory scrutiny, Smithen said.  “It’s going to be difficult for AT&T and Verizon to do any
acquisitions now,” he said. “The DOJ is going to take a hard
look at whatever they do.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in  Portland ,  Oregon , at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles@bloomberg.net . 