-- 
Australian Business Investment Advances More Than Forecast

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-01T01:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/australian-business-investment-advances-more-than-forecast-1-.html
Australian business investment rose
more than economists forecast in the three months through June,
the fourth straight quarterly increase, led by a surge in mining
projects that is projected to accelerate.  Capital spending  advanced 4.9 percent from the first
quarter, when it gained a revised 7.7 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today. That compares with the median
forecast for a 4 percent gain in a Bloomberg News survey of 18
economists.  Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept the benchmark
interest rate on hold at 4.75 percent on Aug. 2 for an eighth
straight meeting and has said weaker  consumer confidence  driven
by last month’s rout in global financial markets will help ease
inflation pressure. Australia’s exports of  iron ore  and coal to
China and India have driven the economy and helped push the
nation’s currency to a record in July, hurting manufacturers.  “Construction investment in mining and related sectors
continues to accelerate, but business investment elsewhere
remains modest, a manifestation of the two-speed economy,”
 Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research at TD Securities
in Singapore, wrote in a research report before today’s release.  Spending on buildings and structures rose 7.3 percent in
the second quarter, today’s report showed. Company investment in
new plant and equipment advanced 2.2 percent.  Mining Boom  Mining investment in the 12 months ending June 30 next year
is projected to be A$82.1 billion, 45 percent higher than in the
2010-2011 fiscal year, today’s report showed.  Australian companies forecast investment of A$148.8
billion ($159 billion) in the year ending June 30, 2012, which
is 6.2 percent higher than their estimate three months earlier.  Companies estimated they invested A$119.7 billion in the
year ended June 30 this year, today’s report showed.  Demand from China for resources and energy has spurred
companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to expand projects. Construction
is under way on Chevron’s A$43 billion liquefied natural gas
Gorgon venture in Western Australia, increasing demand for
skilled workers.  The Australian government forecasts mining investment of
A$76 billion this fiscal year as companies including  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s No. 1 mining company, expand output
to meet demand from China and India.  Australia’s unemployment jumped in July for the first time
since October 2010, to 5.1 percent, a government report showed
Aug. 11. The nation added 41,400 jobs during the first seven
months of the year, the weakest January-July period since 2003.  Job Losses  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Qantas Airways Ltd. and  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC)  all announced plans last month to trim their
workforces as Australian consumers retrench and a currency
that’s risen 17 percent from a year ago hurts demand for
exports. Rising joblessness prompted some economists to predict
the first RBA rate reduction since April 2009.  Stevens, responding to questions from a parliamentary
committee last week, said unemployment hovering near 5 percent
is “a low number.”  “When I started at the  Reserve Bank , the notion that you
could have 5-ish percent unemployment and 2-ish or 3-ish
inflation, was a dream,” he told lawmakers Aug. 26. “So my
answer to the full employment question would be: I think the
bank has fulfilled that side of its mandate.”  To help contain resource-fueled inflation, Stevens boosted
borrowing costs in seven quarter-percentage-point steps from
October 2009 to November last year, the world’s most aggressive
round of rate increases as the global economy emerged from the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  