-- 
Australian Retail Sales, Business Investment Exceed Estimates

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-09-01T03:19:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/australia-retail-sales-rise-for-first-month-in-three-on-department-stores.html
Australian retail sales advanced for
the first time in three months and mining projects boosted
business investment, sending the nation’s currency higher and
prompting traders to reduce bets on interest-rate cuts.  Sales advanced 0.5 percent in July from a month earlier,
when they fell 0.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in
Sydney today. A separate report showed  capital spending  gained
4.9 percent in the three months to June 30 from the first
quarter, when it jumped a revised 7.7 percent. Both reports
exceeded economists’ estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  Australia, the only developed economy to avoid a recession
during the global contraction of 2009, is undergoing what
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  last week called a
“structural adjustment” as the biggest mining boom in more
than a century drives the nation’s currency to a record. The
rising local dollar is hurting exporters, and the  unemployment
rate  last month rose for the first time since October 2010.  “The reports show a pretty decent set of numbers,” said
Su-Lin Ong, head of Australian economic and fixed-income
strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in Sydney. “We’re looking at a
very strong and healthy pipeline of business investment and that
reinforces the RBA’s upbeat view of the business investment
outlook.”  She expects the central bank to keep rates on hold this
year.  Rate Bets  Investors see a 16 percent chance of a quarter percentage-
point cut in the benchmark when RBA policy makers meet next
week, down from 24 percent prior to the release of today’s
reports. The local currency rose after the data, trading at
$1.0709 at 12:45 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0676.  Stevens has paused raising  interest rates  at 4.75 percent
for the past eight meetings as consumers turn cautious and to
gauge the fallout from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Australian companies forecast investment of A$148.8 billion
($159 billion) in the year ending June 30, 2012, which is 6.2
percent higher than a projection three months earlier. Companies
estimated they invested A$119.7 billion in the year ended June
30 this year, today’s report showed.  Mining investment in the 12 months ending June 30 next year
is projected to be A$82.1 billion, 45 percent higher than in the
2010-2011 fiscal. Companies including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s No. 1 mining company, are expanding output to meet
demand from  China  and  India .  Business spending on buildings and structures rose 7.3
percent in the second quarter, today’s report showed, while
investment in new plant and equipment advanced 2.2 percent.  China Demand  Demand from China for resources and energy has spurred
companies such as  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  to expand projects. Construction
is under way on Chevron’s A$43 billion liquefied natural gas
Gorgon venture in  Western Australia , increasing demand for
skilled workers. The Australian government forecasts mining
investment of A$76 billion this fiscal year.  “Today’s data continues to show us that Australian growth
prospects are excellent,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in
Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest
interdealer broker. “Business investment is and will continue
to be a key driver of growth over the next year.”  Australia’s jobless rate held at 4.9 percent in April, May
and June before rising to 5.1 percent in July.  The retail report showed spending at department stores rose
1.2 percent, and consumers spent 1.1 percent more at cafes and
restaurants in July. A category called “other retailing” --
which includes sporting-goods stores and pharmacies -- led the
advance with a 1.9 percent gain.  Consumers spent 4.2 percent less on clothing, footwear and
accessories, it showed.  ‘Old Normal’  In testimony to a parliamentary committee last week,
Stevens said “the new normal, so-called, which is actually the
old normal, is where households save a non-trivial fraction of
current income and keep their debt levels or their growth in
debt levels more in line with growth of income.”  Australia ’s household savings ratio climbed to 11.5 percent
in the three months through March from 9.7 percent in the
previous quarter, the highest level since 2009, a government
report showed June 1.  Stevens said one positive “is that the adjustment to this
new or old normal has been quite fast, which may mean that a lot
of it may already have been accomplished. Nonetheless, in view
of the financial turmoil of recent weeks, it would not be
surprising if a degree of caution persisted for a while yet.”  Stevens’ 175 basis points of rate increases from October
2009 to November last year helped spur the nation’s currency,
which gained about 17 percent in the past year and in July
touched the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  A private report released today showed a gauge of
Australian manufacturing slumped to the lowest level in more
than two years last month as a surging currency hurt exports and
the highest borrowing costs in the developed world curbed
demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  