-- 
Unauthorized Workers in U.S. Claimed $4.2 Billion in Tax Credits Last Year

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-09-01T16:21:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/tax-credits-of-4-2-billion-claimed-by-unauthorized-u-s-workers.html
Tax filers who were not authorized
to work in the U.S. collected $4.2 billion in tax credits in
2010, a Treasury Department watchdog reported.  Although federal law prohibits people residing illegally in
the U.S. from receiving most public benefits, an increasing
number filed tax returns claiming the additional child tax
credit intended for working families, according to the  report 
released today by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax
Administration, J. Russell George.  “The payment of federal funds through this tax benefit
appears to provide an additional incentive for aliens to enter,
reside, and work in the  United States  without authorization,
which contradicts federal law and policy to remove such
incentives,” the report said.  The recipients didn’t qualify for Social Security numbers
and filed tax returns using  individual taxpayer identification
numbers  supplied by the Internal Revenue Service.  The additional child tax credit was established in 1997,
one year after Congress explicitly restricted eligibility for
other benefits to taxpayers with Social Security numbers.  Social Security Numbers  The law authorizing the child tax credit didn’t
specifically limit recipients to holders of Social Security
numbers. The IRS has taken the position that it doesn’t have the
authority to deny the benefit to people who file with a taxpayer
identification number.  “Clarity is needed on this issue,” George said in a
statement accompanying today’s report. “The  Internal Revenue
Service  should work with the Department of Treasury to clarify
whether this credit, which is based on earned income, should be
paid to those who are not authorized to work in the United
States.”  George recommended that the IRS require additional
documentation from unauthorized workers proving that their
children meet eligibility requirements for the credit, including
residency.  In a reply to George’s report, the IRS said it agreed to
discuss the issue of filers’ eligibility for the credit with
Treasury. The IRS didn’t agree to require additional
documentation from unauthorized workers, saying it doesn’t have
authority to do so short of a formal examination process.  Work Authorization Status  In a further statement on the report, IRS spokeswoman
Michelle Eldridge said that “the law has been clear for over a
decade that eligibility for these credits does not depend on
work authorization status or the type of taxpayer identification
number used.”  “The IRS administers the law impartially and applies it as
it is written,” she said. “If the law were changed, the IRS
would change its programs accordingly.”  Even income earned illegally in the U.S. is subject to
taxation. Identification numbers are provided so that workers
can comply with tax laws even if they don’t have the work
authorization necessary for a Social Security number.  The average amount claimed per single return from filers
using tax identification numbers in 2010 was about $1,800,
according to the report. The total amount of refunds for
additional child tax credits processed in 2010 was $28.3
billion.  George also reported that documentation associated with
filings by those with taxpayer identification numbers sometimes
include fabricated or stolen Social Security numbers.  George urged the IRS to contact taxpayers whose Social
Security numbers have been compromised, something it doesn’t now
routinely do.  The IRS said it is increasing efforts to combat  identity
theft . It didn’t commit to a notification policy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  