-- 
Tax Court Rules Against Chicago Lawyer’s Distressed-Debt Deals

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-01T21:52:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/tax-court-rules-against-chicago-lawyer-s-distressed-debt-deals.html
The U.S. Tax Court  ruled  that a
distressed-debt transaction promoted to clients by Chicago
lawyer  John Rogers  was invalid.  The deals involving Brazilian consumer debt featured
transactions among U.S. taxpayers and a company in the British
Virgin Islands. The government calls the transactions the
Distressed Asset Debt and Distressed Asset Trust tax shelters,
or DAD and DAT.  “There has been no showing of reasonable cause or good
faith on Rogers’ part in conceptualizing, designing and
executing the transactions,” wrote Judge Robert A. Wherry in a
decision released today. “Instead, Rogers’ knowledge and
experience should have put him on notice that the tax benefits
sought by the form of the transactions would not be forthcoming
and that these transactions would be re-characterized and
stepped together to reveal their true substance.”  Last year, the U.S.  Justice Department  sued Rogers to
prevent him from promoting the transactions. The government
alleges that the transactions generate losses related to
Brazilian debt that don’t cost taxpayers any money and can be
used to reduce taxable income.  In  its statement  at the time, the government said Rogers
had generated more than $370 million in improper  tax deductions 
for more than 100 clients.  Federal Case Pending  The Justice Department’s case is pending in federal court
in Chicago. In June, District Court Judge Samuel Der-Yeghiayan
denied Rogers’ motion to dismiss the case.  Paul Kozacky, Rogers’ attorney in the Tax Court case,
didn’t immediately return a request for comment on the ruling.  Rogers was a partner at Seyfarth Shaw LLP in  Chicago  until
2008, when the firm required him to resign because he had
continued to promote the tax shelters, the government said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  