-- 
Azerbaijan Sees 10 Billion Cubic Meters of Gas Shipped to Europe

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T15:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/azerbaijan-sees-10-billion-cubic-meters-of-gas-shipped-to-europe.html
Azerbaijan  will be able to supply 10
billion cubic meters of natural gas a year to Europe when the
Shah Deniz 2 offshore deposit comes on stream in 2017, said
Elshad Nasirov, vice president of  State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan .  The estimate compares with the capacity of 30 billion cubic
meters projected by an OMV AG-led group for its proposed Nabucco
pipeline to deliver gas from the Caspian Sea to Europe. Nabucco
is vying with the proposed Trans-Adriatic Pipeline managed by
 Statoil ASA (STL)  and EON AG, and a third link led by Edison SpA, Depa
SA and Boru Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS for the development.  A group developing the field led by  BP Plc (BP/)  is unlikely to
agree on the sale and transit of Azeri natural gas with Turkey’s
Boru Hatlari, known as Botas, this month, Nasirov said. In
contrast, the state oil company, or Socar, said last month that
companies seeking to build pipelines from the gas field must
submit their project requirements to the BP group by Oct. 1.  “It is crucial for Turkey and Azerbaijan to sign an
agreement on gas sales and transit tariffs before a decision on
pipeline options,” said Jennifer Coolidge, executive director
at research company CMX Caspian and Gulf Consultants Ltd.  BP and partners including Statoil, OAO Lukoil and  Total SA (FP) 
are due to make a final decision on tapping the second phase of
the field in October. David Nicholas, a spokesman for BP, wasn’t
immediately able to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net .  Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 