-- 
Bank Rules Relaxed to Aid Irene Relief

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/banks-may-help-hurricane-irene-recovery-by-easing-lending-modifying-loans.html
In the aftermath of Hurricane Irene,
Thomas N. Pelletier, president and chief executive officer of
 Northfield Savings Bank  in  Vermont , is contending with the
destruction of one flooded branch and several employees who’ve
lost their homes.  His community bank, with about $630 million in assets, will
also soon begin to help central Vermont rebuild. That’s why
Pelletier says he’s pleased that U.S. regulators have announced
they’ll allow banks to ease loan conditions for affected
customers and will offer incentives for non-local financial
institutions that fund disaster-relief projects.  “Although I’m confident that Vermont-based banks will be
active lenders, quite frankly, additional resources would be
welcome given the magnitude of the challenges faced by many
homeowners and businesses,” Pelletier said in an interview
yesterday.  Last weekend’s storm killed at least 40 people as it moved
from the Caribbean through  New England . It left an estimated
$2.6 billion in damage and cut power to almost 8 million homes
and businesses. Three days after the storm caused the worst
flooding in Vermont in nearly a century, thousands of residents
remained stranded by washed-out roads, downed trees, and damaged
bridges. Many businesses and schools were closed as National
Guard troops struggled to aid isolated communities.  After hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, agencies
including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Office of
the Comptroller of the Currency issued guidance clarifying that
banks can get credit under the Community Reinvestment Act if
they lend in disaster areas far from their home bases. Usually,
banks must make loans benefiting low- and moderate-income
residents of the neighborhoods where they have branches to meet
the terms of the law.  Loan Adjustments  Other types of regulatory flexibility after disasters --
such as allowing banks to adjust loan terms -- date back to at
least the 1980s, according to FDIC officials.  “Banks are very important for a recovery in an area,”
said  Doug Johnson , vice president of risk management policy at
the  American Bankers Association . “The extension of credit is
an important part of that. Agencies recognize that.”  Banks including those in North and South Carolina,  New
York , New England and  Puerto Rico  can extend repayments,
restructure loans or ease terms for new lending, the FDIC  said
in a letter  to the companies it regulates this week. Terms of
the letter apply to banks with total assets of less than $1
billion, the FDIC said.  ‘Prudent Efforts’  “The FDIC realizes that the effects of natural disasters
on local businesses and individuals are often transitory, and
prudent efforts to adjust or alter terms on existing loans in
affected areas should not be subject to examiner criticism,”
the agency said in the letter dated Aug. 29.  The FDIC, which insures deposits at more than 7,500 banks
and thrifts, urged firms to monitor and stabilize investments in
local-government projects that may have been hurt by the storm.
Banks will be given some relief on filing requirements, the
agency said.  Meanwhile, in an Aug. 25 letter, the OCC urged banks to
consider waiving late-payment fees and ATM fees and also said it
wouldn’t criticize the institutions it supervises for modifying
loan terms.  “We have certainly seen banks take extraordinary actions
after a natural disaster,” said  Bryan Hubbard , a spokesman for
the OCC. “Whether they have done that because it’s the right
thing to do, because it’s a good business opportunity, or
because of the CRA credit, I can’t say.”  Fee Cuts  Some institutions, including  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB)  and SunTrust
Banks Inc., have begun offering discounted loans in areas
affected by the hurricane. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo
& Co. are cutting some fees for customers along the Eastern
seaboard.  In Vermont Wednesday afternoon, 95 to 98 percent of the
banking infrastructure was up and running, said Christopher
D’Elia, president of the Vermont Bankers Association, who had
been telephoning the organization’s members to assess the
damage.  Regulators had been reaching out to banks, he said.  “All of them are offering support and understanding for
this situation that the banks find themselves in,” D’Elia said.
“My expectation is that banks will be able to do what’s
responsible and feasible, and when we’re examined a year or two
from now, I’m expecting the banks won’t have any difficulty.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  