-- 
Bank of New York Mellon Climbs After CEO Kelly Is Replaced by Directors

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-09-01T20:34:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/bank-of-new-york-mellon-climbs-after-ceo-kelly-is-replaced-by-directors.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, may get more aggressive in cutting
costs after the sudden departure of Chief Executive Officer
Robert P. Kelly, according to Wall Street analysts.  Kelly, 57, who had run the company since 2007, stepped down
in “mutual agreement” with the board, the firm said yesterday.
His successor is Gerald L. Hassell, 59, who has been president
of New York-based BNY Mellon since 1998.  “While the exact reasons behind Mr. Kelly’s departure are
unclear, we believe the firm’s focus under the new leadership
could shift to more aggressive cost management and business
rationalization and away from acquisitions,” Alexander Blostein, an analyst at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in  New York ,
wrote yesterday in note to clients. Blostein has a “neutral”
rating on the shares.  BNY Mellon fell 4 cents, or 0.2 percent, to $20.63 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, after rising
as much as 5.7 percent. The stock has dropped 32 percent in
2011, compared with the 18 percent decline by the Standard &
Poor’s financial-services index.  The bank, in a statement, said Kelly left “due to
differences in approach to managing the company,” without
explaining what those differences were.  In a conference call with investors in July, Kelly
described expense growth at the bank as “too high,” citing
rising costs for pensions, compensation, health care and legal
bills. The bank said Aug. 10 it planned to cut 1,500 jobs, or 3
percent of the workforce, to address escalating expenses.  State Street  Rival  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank,
moved earlier and more dramatically to cut costs, said John Stilmar, an analyst with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in
Atlanta.  “If State Street can do it, so can BNY Mellon,” Stilmar
said today in a telephone interview.  State Street, based in  Boston , said in November it would
cut 1,400 jobs, or 5 percent of the workforce, by the end of
this year as part of an effort to slash as much as $625 million
in expenses annually. The bank said it would take other measures
including trimming real estate costs and investing in technology
initiatives to increase efficiency.  State Street said in July it would eliminate an additional
850 jobs over 20 months by laying off 530 information technology
employees and transferring 320 to outside vendors.  Low  Interest Rates   Custody banks have been hurt by persistent low interest
rates, which reduce income from lending cash and securities and
cut fees from money-market funds. The U.S. Federal Reserve has
kept its main lending rates close to zero since December 2008 to
try to revive the economy.  Weak capital markets have also reduced revenue from
 securities lending  and foreign-exchange trading, said  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Portland ,  Maine .
In this environment cost-cutting becomes more critical, he said.  “BNY Mellon has been a little slow to jump on the
bandwagon,” Cassidy said today in a telephone interview.  Kelly, who came from Pittsburgh-based Mellon Financial
Corp. when it was acquired in July 2007 by Bank of New York Co.,
was thought of as someone willing to spend money to expand the
bank, Cassidy said. Hassell, his successor, has been a career
employee at Bank of New York, an institution known for
frugality, Cassidy said.  Under Kelly, BNY Mellon grew by buying  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) ’s investment-servicing business for $2.31
billion and  Germany ’s BHF Asset Servicing GmbH for 253 million
euros ($361 million) in 2010.  ‘No Free Lunch’  Both Bank of New York and State Street have spoken about
the need to raise prices to offset increased expenses.  At a May 24 presentation, Bank of New York Vice Chairman
Timothy Keaney said customers were being told, “There is no
free lunch here,” and that the bank’s higher costs are “going
to be translated back to the clients.”  On an April 19 conference call, State Street Chief
Executive Officer Joseph “Jay” Hooley talked about improving
the “economics,” of the business, “given some of the falloff
in market-based revenues.” Hooley said conversations with
customers had resulted in some fee increases.  State Street shares have declined 25 percent this year.
Chicago-based  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-largest
independent custody bank, has fallen 31 percent.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . They also manage investments for
individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Edelman at 
 ledelman3@bloomberg.net  