-- 
Banning Youths From Streets May Make Us Less Safe: Mike Males

-- B y   M i k e   M a l e s
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/banning-kids-from-streets-may-make-us-less-safe-commentary-by-mike-males.html
In the wake of  flash-mob  riots in
several cities, fears of  gang violence  and age-old anxiety about
kids on the streets, authorities in Philadelphia, Chicago and
other cities are adopting or beefing up curfews that ban youths
from being in public during school hours and at night.  Juvenile curfews are unique to the U.S. No other country,
including those in  Latin America  and  Asia  or even the U.K.
during recent riots in  London , invokes such measures except
during national emergencies -- and then they apply to all ages.  Although America’s best measure of crime, the  National
Crime Victimization Survey , finds violence by juveniles has
plummeted to a record low and  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
reports also show youth arrests for violent crimes at a nadir,
officials and news outlets seem eager to postulate a crisis. For
example, news reports have depicted murders of school-aged
youths in  Chicago  as an alarming new trend even though coroners’
records show today’s urban youths, including Chicago’s, are
safer from homicide than at any time in at least 40 years.  Similarly, the notion that mass curfews and crackdowns have
become necessary because of violence enabled by social media is
dubious. In reality, only the term “flash mob” is new. The
1965 Watts riot in  Los Angeles  began within 20 minutes of its
instigating incident as a few onlookers quickly grew to a mob of
hundreds, then thousands. “ Youth in Danger ,” a 1956 report by
congressional investigators, cited numerous mob incidents,
including ones in Philadelphia identical to those now labeled as
flash mobs. The social media of the time were talking and
telephones.  Rare Exception  Few studies find curfews effective. One exception, a widely
cited  analysis  by Patrick Kline, a  University of California ,
Berkeley, economist, found small reductions in crime among
younger teens. Unfortunately, this study only included cities
that implemented curfews and failed to account for national
trends showing much larger crime declines among younger teens
than among those older teens subject to curfews, including in
cities without curfews.  For example, both property and violent crime rates fell
steeply in the 1990s and 2000s among youths in  San Francisco ,
which didn’t have a curfew. A “systematic review of empirical
research on juvenile curfews” in city after city by Kenneth
Adams, an Indiana University-Purdue University Indianapolis
associate professor,  found  “the evidence does not support the
argument that curfews prevent crime and victimization.”
Likewise, a study by the Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice
found that during the 1990s and 2000s, juvenile crime and crime
in general fell faster in  California  cities that didn’t enforce
youth curfews than in those that did.  Popular Prejudice  In any case, curfew advocates seem both unaware of -- and
indifferent to -- research. A  feature  article in the trade
journal “Youth Today” found curfew support was largely based on
impressions, anecdotes and gut feelings (uniformly negative
ones) toward youth.  Popular prejudices against teenagers notwithstanding,
juvenile curfews may actually increase danger and the
opportunities for crime by occupying police with removing law-
abiding youths from public areas. This clashes with observations
by William Whyte, Jane Jacobs and other urban scholars that
well-used public spaces present fewer opportunities for crime.  The Center on Juvenile and Criminal Justice  analysis ,
published in “Criminal Justice Policy Review,” of police
notations on hundreds of curfew citations found that more than
99 percent of the youths cited or arrested weren’t in danger or
suspected of any criminal activity or intent. They were playing
basketball in the park, heading home from movies or work,
emerging from restaurants, talking with friends. Similarly,
police records in Monrovia, California, showed that crime fell
considerably faster during non-curfew hours, when juveniles were
allowed in public, than during times when youths were banished.  Invisible in Crowds  Of course, thousands of law-abiding teenagers in public are
far less noticeable than a few dozen in a flash mob, a reality
that should be evident to police, political authorities and
press commentators. Still, we see claims that ridding the
streets of all young people brings some kind of benefit. For
example, in a recent  debate  on  National Public Radio , Montgomery
County,  Maryland , executive Ike Leggett advocated a curfew
because of worries that his jurisdiction has become “a haven
for young people,” a group he described only in terms of
“challenges” to  law enforcement .  But don’t adults present even bigger challenges? FBI
reports show many more adults in their 40s are involved in
murders and serious assaults than people under age 18. In 2009,
more than 200,000 Americans in their 40s were arrested for
drunken driving, surely a serious, deadly public crime. Yet,
even though adults commit many more crimes than do youths, no
one is proposing mass restrictions on their movements.  Until public officials and news media stop indulging in
tones of panic and anger toward young people, and adopt the same
objective standards of analysis we demand for adult behavior and
trends, we will continue to see intrusive, ineffective cure-alls
such as youth curfews. As strange as it sounds in today’s
climate, what cities need is more, not fewer, kids on the
street.  (Mike Males, senior researcher at the Center on Juvenile
and Criminal Justice, is the author of “Teenage Sex and
Pregnancy: Modern Myths, Unsexy Realities.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Mike Males at  mmales@earthlink.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  