-- 
Barry Bonds’s Three Perjury Charges Should Be Dismissed, U.S. Tells Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-01T04:04:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/barry-bonds-has-three-perjury-counts-dismissed-by-federal-prosecutors.html
Major League Baseball home-run king
 Barry Bonds , convicted of obstructing a federal probe of
steroids use by athletes, should have three perjury charges
against him dropped, U.S. prosecutors told a judge.  J. Douglas Wilson, deputy chief of the criminal division
for the U.S. Attorney in San Francisco, said the office, with
court permission, “dismisses counts one, two and three” of an
amended indictment pending against the former San Francisco
Giants outfielder, according to a filing yesterday in federal
court.  Bonds was accused of knowingly lying about taking
performance-enhancing drugs. According to the filing, dismissal
of the perjury counts was “without prejudice,” meaning
prosecutors may refile the charges. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow, who prosecuted Bonds at trial, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message seeking comment yesterday.  Bonds, 47,  Major League Baseball ’s all-time home run
leader, lost a bid to overturn his conviction for obstruction of
justice. On Aug. 26, U.S. District Judge Susan Illston rejected
his request for acquittal or a new trial, saying he “repeatedly
provided nonresponsive answers” before a federal grand jury in
2003 about whether his trainer ever provided him with injectable
substances.  Trial jurors, who convicted Bonds in April, were unable to
agree on whether he lied when he told the grand jury that he
didn’t knowingly take steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone
and didn’t receive injections from his trainer. A mistrial was
declared on those counts.  December Sentencing  Sentencing on the obstruction conviction is scheduled for
Dec. 16. Bonds faces as long as 10 years in prison.  Allen Ruby, Bonds’s attorney, didn’t immediately return a
voice-mail message seeking comment.  Marion Jones , a former Olympic sprinter, was sentenced to
six months in prison after pleading guilty to obstruction of
justice charges. Her coach, Trevor Graham, was sentenced to one
year of home confinement by Illston for lying to federal agents.
Illston sentenced former world-class cyclist Tammy Thomas to six
months of home confinement for lying about taking steroids.  Bonds broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted in November of that year for
allegedly lying to the grand jury.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
his trainer,  Greg Anderson , without knowing what they were
because the drugs were new at the time and because Anderson told
him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  