-- 
Bike Bags Bulge With Tent, Stove on Alpine Culture-Camping Tour

-- B y   S h i r l e y   A p t h o r p
-- 
2011-09-01T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/bike-bags-bulge-with-tent-spirit-stove-for-alpine-culture-camping-travel.html
The trick is to fit all the
essentials into your waterproof bike bags: Tent, rain jacket,
puncture kit, spirit stove, bicycle pump, floaty black dress,
high-heeled shoes.  I prepared for my first solo cycling trip through the Swiss
Alps with a mixture of excitement and ignorance. I’ve gone on
bike tours before, but never with a tent, and never in this part
of the world. All my travels involve attending and reviewing
opera, so there needed to be room in my luggage for something to
wear and something on which to write and send articles.  Half an hour into my journey, a five-day spin along the
Rhine river from its source near Andermatt down to Basel, I was
pouring with sweat, covered in grime and exhausted. And I hadn’t
even left Zurich’s main station yet. I’ve learned the hard way
that one of the biggest challenges is getting myself, my bike,
and all my gear on and off trains.  I haven’t camped since I was a teen, but I’ve never lost my
taste for outdoor shops, and I can spend hours browsing through
solar-heated showers, collapsible canoes, tools to remove stones
from horses’ hooves, and other gear that I will never need. Just
choosing and buying a lightweight tent gave me days of joy.  Even when I began this escapade, I knew that pretending I
would camp to save money was self-delusion. It is easy to spend
vast sums of money on ultralight camping gear. By the time I
found myself on the euphoric downhill through the dazzling
Engadin landscape around Sils Maria and St. Moritz, I knew that
for the price of what was in my panniers, I could have spent at
least a night or two at one of the grand hotels of the region.  Pilfering Sporks  Not that it has to be like that. In the course of selecting
my equipment for the summer, I was oddly fascinated by two You
Tube videos in which woolly American fanatics cheerfully explain
their secrets for outdoor thrills with almost no gear.  Why buy an expensive titanium spork when you can pilfer a
plastic one from Taco Bill? It’s free and you save several
milligrams of unnecessary weight. Who needs bowls when you can
recycle yoghurt containers?  Why spend money on a camping stove when you can improvise
one with a used beer can and a tea light? Oh, and tents are for
sissies. Real hikers just pitch a rain poncho with some lengths
of twine and their walking poles.  It was daunting. I had no intention of stealing sporks or
trying to survive a European downpour under a poncho. But there
are two inescapable truths. One is that there is always a trade-
off between comfort and weight. The other is that ultralight
camping is about what you don’t take, not what you do.  Kindle Purchase  After my first trip, I went through my gear grimly.
Anything I hadn’t used or had only used once was out. But I
still had an excuse to shop. I swapped my bulky Therm-a-rest for
the lightest mat on the market. I also bought a Kindle, so that
I always have something to read without the weight of books.  I come from a distinguished line of Antipodean adventurers.
For most of them, a European campsite, with its running warm
water and washing-machines, would be pitiably soft.  To me this feels like wilderness. I am savagely proud of
being able to pitch my little tent, cook on my spirit stove, get
to the top of the uphill bits, and find my way from one end of
the guidebook to the other.  Cappuccino Breaks  I can live with the fact that there are supermarkets and
cafes in between the snow-capped mountain peaks and rolling
fields. How else could you drink a cappuccino and charge your
laptop? It pains me a little when groups of retirees overtake
me, but they’ve got nothing better to do with their time than
train. It’s an unfair advantage.  And besides, they aren’t lugging essential survival gear,
like opera clothes, along with them.  I thought I was the world’s only solo-cycle-camping-opera-
goer until I met a man who had brought his evening suit rolled
up in a sleeping-mat on the back of his bike to the exclusive
Hampshire country opera house of  Grange Park . He had ridden from
 London  and planned to sleep rough in the woods after a superb
“Tristan und Isolde.” He had also hiked to Glyndebourne.  Perhaps there are thousands of us out there.  Arriving at the  Zurich opera  for “Parsifal” after
following the course of the Rhine from its burbling beginning
near Andermatt to its broad efficiency in Basel, I felt a
Wagnerian sense of achievement.  A month later, I dressed for the  Salzburg Festival  after
braving wintry temperatures and tropical deluges along the Inn
river. From there, I rode through Bavaria, past the Lake of
Constance, and through the middle of  Switzerland , timing my
arrival in Lucerne to coincide with  concerts  conducted by Daniel Barenboim and Claudio Abbado.  The landscape is breathtaking, the culture provides a
timetable and goals, and I finally have a good reason to hang
out in camping shops. What more could you want?  (Shirley Apthorp is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Shirley Apthorp in Berlin at  Sarabande@me.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 