-- 
BlackRock Seeks Permission to Open 13 Actively Managed ETFs

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 
2011-09-01T23:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/blackrock-seeks-permission-to-open-13-actively-managed-etfs-2-.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the largest provider
of exchange-traded funds, is seeking permission from regulators
to offer actively managed ETFs aimed at competing with stock-
picking mutual funds.  The New York-based firm applied to open 13 equity ETFs that
wouldn’t disclose their holdings daily, according to a filing by
BlackRock today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The firm already has permission to sell active ETFs
that offer daily transparency.  ETFs in the U.S. took almost half of the $2.01 trillion
market for so-called passive products, which replicate the
composition of a stock or bond index, as of the end of 2010,
according to the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-
based trade group. Firms managing or planning active ETFs are
looking for a way to compete for the $10.8 trillion market of
funds managed by stock and bond pickers.  Active ETFs seek to combine the skill of a manager
selecting investments with the trading flexibility, lower fees
and tax advantages of ETFs, which typically track an index. ETFs
hold baskets of securities, commodities or other assets while
trading throughout the day like individual stocks.  ETFs reveal their holdings because institutional investors
need to know a fund’s composition to create new blocks of
shares. That process also keeps an ETF’s share price aligned
with the value of its assets.  Transparency Issue  The SEC hasn’t approved ETFs that wouldn’t reveal holdings
daily. In a June 2010 interview, Andrew Donohue, then head of
the SEC’s investment management division, said the agency was
concerned the lack of transparency would disrupt that mechanism.  That has discouraged companies from opening stock-picking
ETFs because the transparency would allow other investors to
mimic their holdings.  BlackRock’s newly proposed funds would seek to solve that
problem by allowing large investors to create blocks of new
shares in exchange for cash, instead of buying the underlying
holdings and swapping them for the ETF shares.  The funds would invest in a variety of equity categories
such as large and mid-size companies, and include versions free
to bet on both rising and falling prices.  BlackRock received approval from the SEC in March to open
actively run ETFs that would disclose their holdings daily,
Christine Hudacko, a spokeswoman, said today in a telephone
interview. She wouldn’t say when the company planned to
introduce such funds, and she declined to comment on the new
filing.  Through its iShares unit, acquired in the 2009 purchase of
 Barclays Global Investors , BlackRock controlled about 39 percent
of global ETF assets, including exchange-traded notes and
trusts, with $640 billion as of June 30. State Street was second
with $262 billion, according to BlackRock’s report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  