-- 
BofA Settlement Belongs in State Court, BNY Tells Judge

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-09-01T19:37:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/bofa-settlement-should-return-to-state-court-u-s-judge-told.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  asked
a federal judge to return  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed
$8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement to the New York state
court where it had been submitted for approval.  A group of bond investors moved the case to federal court
in Manhattan on Aug. 26, arguing that that court has
jurisdiction under federal class-action laws.  BNY Mellon, the trustee for 530 securitization trusts that
hold loans underlying the bonds, asked U.S. District Judge
William Pauley today to send the case back to state court in
Manhattan. Countrywide Financial, which originated the loans,
was acquired by  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America
in 2008.  “There is no basis” for keeping the case in federal
court, Matthew Ingber, a lawyer for  BNY Mellon , told Pauley at
today’s scheduling hearing. The judge, rejecting BNY Mellon’s
arguments for an expedited hearing, set Sept. 21 for arguments
on the question of removal. The settlement, which is being
challenged by some investors, would resolve claims against
Countrywide Financial.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , pension funds and other investors have objected
to the settlement, saying they need more information to
determine whether it’s fair. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  has also protested the settlement, claiming the
state may have claims against Bank of America.  BlackRock, PIMCO  The $8.5 billion settlement, which was negotiated with a
group of institutional investors, including BlackRock Inc. and
Pacific Investment Management Co., would apply to all the
investors if approved.  BNY Mellon requested a so-called Article 77 proceeding,
used in  New York  state courts to determine disputes related to
trusts, to try to win approval of the settlement. Pauley asked
Ingber several times whether his client was violating its
fiduciary duty to the 530 trust beneficiaries.  The judge also asked if BNY Mellon was trying to prevent
objecting investors from derailing the deal by using a procedure
“the main benefit of which is to limit the right of trust
beneficiaries to opt out of the settlement.”  Ingber told Pauley the bank chose Article 77 for its speed
and simplicity.  “This was a very good settlement for the trusts, for a
variety of reasons,” Ingber said.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  