-- 
Borders Group Sues Next Jump Inc. Over Use of Website

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 
2011-09-01T14:06:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/borders-sues-next-jump-for-trademark-infringement-over-use-of-website.html
Borders Group Inc., the bankrupt
book retailer, sued Next Jump Inc. for trade-secret
misappropriation and trademark infringement over the use of a
website.  Borders contends it had a contract with New York-based Next
Jump to operate the Borders rewards site and that Next Jump,
armed with a Borders client list, set up the OO.com website to
gain customers.  “There is a danger of imminent, irreparable harm to the
debtors’ estates” as a result of Next Jump’s use of the list
and infringement of Borders’ trademarks, lawyers for the company
said in a complaint filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
 Manhattan . Borders asked a  New York  bankruptcy judge to award
punitive damages in the case.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor , Michigan, filed for protection
from creditors Feb. 16, listing debt of $1.29 billion and assets
of $1.28 billion. The company is liquidating its assets.  The retailer lost business as customers switched to e-
readers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle, introduced in 2007.
Barnes & Noble invested in its own Nook device to attract
customers.  Officials of Next Jump weren’t immediately available to
comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Borders Group Inc. v. Next Jump Inc., 11ap2567,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The bankruptcy case is In re Borders Group Inc.,
11-10614,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  