-- 
Both Parties Misunderstand Taxes, Sacrifice: Stephen L. Carter

-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/both-parties-misconstrue-taxes-sacrifice-commentary-by-stephen-l-carter.html

(Corrects tax amount in seventh paragraph.)  Taxes are in bad political odor
these days. True, there has been no era in which taxation was
popular, but we seem to have reached a moment of particular
confusion. We have one major party dedicated to the bizarre
principle that nothing that is not taxed now should ever be
taxed again, and another dedicated to the equally bizarre
principle that taxes are a magical elixir that will eliminate
the nation’s indebtedness while touching only those who happen
to own private jets.  In this strange and wondrous atmosphere, I would like to
say a word or two in defense of taxation, and then to suggest
that each party is on the track of an important truth, even if,
in the rush for partisan advantage, each also misunderstands the
virtues of its own position.  Taxes will inevitably go up. The Democrats are right about
that much. Alas, they get the reason wrong every time they try
to explain. The reason taxes must rise is not that millionaires
and billionaires have too much money, or that corporations
aren’t paying their fair share. It’s that the federal
government, under the joint leadership of the two parties, has
fallen so deeply into debt that its need has grown desperate.
Under no plausible scenario are we going to grow ourselves out
of the remarkable hole we have dug. In what ought to be a
national embarrassment, our government needs more revenue to pay
not for a more glorious future but for a tragically wasted past.  Narrow Tax Base  The Republicans, too, are wrong, in their opposition to any
increase in any taxes for any reason. But they are right that
the Democrats have made an absurd fetish of progressivity, and
that the constant chatter about asking the rich to sacrifice
makes it sound as if taxes are the punishment one suffers for
success. And they are right in admitting, in their unguarded
moments, what the Simpson-Bowles Commission pointed out: that
the tax base is too narrow.  The middle of a fragile recovery may not be the proper time
to increase taxes. This is particularly true given that
Americans are, at the moment, highly leveraged, and many might
have to take on additional debt in order to pay additional
taxes. Perhaps we would be wise to wait until what Harvard
University economist  Kenneth Rogoff  calls “the Great
Contraction” -- getting rid of debt -- has run its course.  But rise taxes eventually will, and, if we are smart, they
will cover a broader base. Indeed, it is at once amusing and
depressing to hear all the talk of shared sacrifice when we are
discussing tax increases mainly on those earning more than
$250,000 a year. Part of the magic of this figure may be that
few federal employees get paid as much. But  one in five  earns
upward of $100,000 a year.  This is worth mentioning because there isn’t much in the
way of shared sacrifice when a taxpayer who makes, say, $275,000
a year has to pay an extra 3 percent on the amount over $250,000
($750) while a civil servant earning, say, $175,000 a year
retains all of her income. Bear in mind that a tax increase is,
in effect, a reduction in income. If sacrifice is to be truly
shared, why not ask federal employees to accept an across-the-
board salary reduction of, say, 2 percent?  Shared Sacrifice  True, this wouldn’t yield much revenue. The most recent
publicly available figures, for 2009, put federal nondefense
salary spending at a bit more than $15 billion a month, or $180
billion a year. Even if (as seems likely) the figure has now
reached $200 billion, a 2 percent cut would save a mere $4
billion annually. Yet, as a symbolic gesture, it would do far
more than any presidential address to convince voters that the
government is serious about shared sacrifice.  I don’t suggest this plan because I think federal employees
are overpaid. I don’t. But neither are the vast majority of
those who happen to earn more than $250,000 in the private
sector. Still, if cutting federal salaries in return for cutting
the income of other taxpayers seems too much to ask, perhaps we
should consider another way of sharing the sacrifice: We should
broaden the tax base. Simpson-Bowles suggests reducing rates as
part of the broadening, while also removing most deductions.
Many liberals object that the plan would reduce the
progressivity of the  tax code . But this response is a non
sequitur.  The progressive tax structure rests upon the eminently
sensible notion that those who earn more should be taxed at a
higher rate. Those of us who have benefited more -- whether
because of hard work or good luck or, probably most often, some
combination of the two -- ought to pay a larger part of the
revenue burden. We can afford it, and, as my late father often
reminded me (borrowing without attribution from Oliver Wendell Holmes), to pay taxes to the government of the U.S. is a
privilege.  But progressivity is merely one factor in working out tax
rates. It isn’t the reason taxes exist. They exist to raise
revenue, a point easily forgotten in the rhetoric of the day.
And there isn’t nearly enough income in the upper bracket to
make a serious dent in the nation’s debt.  Liberals are fond of quoting from a 1936 speech in which
President  Franklin Roosevelt  decried “a small but powerful
group which has fought the extension of those benefits, because
it did not want to pay a fair share of their cost.” Nice line.
But it’s easy to forget that F.D.R., in the very same paragraph,
reminded his listeners of the “vast majority of citizens who
believe the benefits of democracy should be extended and who are
willing to pay their fair share to extend them.”  Paying More  Precisely right. A vast majority of Americans should be
willing to pay taxes. All but the very poorest should contribute
financially to the great American experiment. The shared
sacrifice should certainly be progressive, but it should also be
shared. When almost half of households pay no federal income
taxes, the concept of shared sacrifice vanishes, and America
becomes not that to which we contribute but that from which we
receive.  (It is frequently said, in response to this argument, that
almost all employed Americans are taxed by the federal
government, because they pay Social Security and Medicare taxes.
But these, at least in theory, are special-purpose levies,
flowing into accounts that will someday benefit the payer
personally. If in fact these fees simply constitute a part of
the tax burden for general purposes of governance,  Washington  is
free to confess at any time to decades of misleading the
public.)  Taxes are in themselves neither good nor evil, and both
parties should stop talking as though they are. They are simply
one among many ways of raising revenue. There was a time when
the federal government relied almost entirely on  import duties 
for its income. Lately its addiction has been to borrowed money.
Perhaps a future generation will discover some other magical
means for supporting the state. In the meanwhile, if indeed we
need to sacrifice, let’s at least sacrifice together.  (Stephen L. Carter, a novelist, professor of law at  Yale
University  and the author of “The Violence of Peace: America’s
Wars in the Age of Obama,” is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 