-- 
Bovespa Index Gains Most in Three Weeks on Unexpected Interest-Rate Cut

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-09-01T20:40:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/bovespa-index-gains-most-in-three-weeks-on-unexpected-interest-rate-cut.html
The Bovespa stock index rose the
most in three weeks after  Brazil ’s central bank cut the
benchmark lending rate for the first time in two years to shore
up growth in  Latin America ’s biggest economy.  B2W Cia. Global do Varejo, Brazil’s largest online
retailer, led gains on the gauge on speculation cheaper credit
will boost sales. All 18 stocks in the BM&FBovespa Real Estate
Index advanced. Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-biggest bank
by market value, gained the most since March 2009.  The Bovespa rose 2.9 percent to 58,118.20 at the close of
trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time, its fifth straight day of
gains. Fifty-five stocks rose on the measure, while eight
dropped. The real weakened 1.7 percent to 1.6166 per  U.S.
dollar , while yields on interest-rate futures contracts dropped.  The central bank unexpectedly cut  interest rates  yesterday
as the risk of recession in  Europe  and the U.S. shifted policy
makers’ focus away from the fastest inflation in six years. The
decision makes Brazil the second in the Group of 20 after  Turkey 
to use monetary policy to safeguard the economy against a global
slowdown.  “The central bank is more pessimistic about the outlook
for global growth,” Carlos Camacho, who helps oversee about
$2.1 billion at GAP Asset Management in  Rio de Janeiro , said in
a telephone interview. “So it’s reducing interest rates now,
before the worst happens, in an attempt to keep the Brazilian
economy growing at a healthy pace.”  Benchmark Rate  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
5-2 to cut the benchmark rate a half point to 12 percent after
raising it at each of its previous five meetings. All 62
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg forecast no change, as was
favored by the two dissenting board members.  Brazilian stocks were raised to “overweight” from
“underweight” at JPMorgan Chase & Co. after the central bank’s
decision was announced. The rate cut will “add momentum to the
rally from the recent lows,” analysts including Emy Shayo Cherman wrote in a note to clients.  The Bovespa entered a bear market on July 27 after plunging
20 percent from its bull-market peak in November. The measure is
up 8.9 percent this week.  Tecnisa SA rose 8.8 percent to 12.35 reais, leading gains
by real estate companies. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index rose
6.2 percent. Bradesco gained 7.4 percent to 30.23 reais. B2W
advanced 8.4 percent to 17.40 reais.  BM&FBovespa SA, the operator of Latin America’s biggest
securities exchange, surged 8.3 percent to 10.10 reais, the most
since May 2010. “Interest-rate cuts are music to our ears,”
Chief Executive Officer Edemir Pinto said in a conference call
today. The stock market should benefit from lower rates, Pinto
said.  Relative Value  The Bovespa trades at 9.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, near the lowest level since March 2009, according to
weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of
11.8 for the Shanghai Composite Index, 6 for  Russia ’s Micex and
14 for  India ’s Sensex.  Traders moved 9.46 billion reais ($5.85 billion) in stocks
in  Sao Paulo  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That
compares to a daily average this year of 6.58 billion reais
through Aug. 23, according to data from the exchange.  Foreign investors have pulled 579.4 million reais from
Latin America’s largest equity market in the year through Aug.
22, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  