-- 
BP Says Second Day of Bailiff Raid Halts Moscow Office Work

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-09-01T17:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/bp-says-second-day-of-bailiff-raid-halts-moscow-office-work-1-.html
Russian bailiffs disrupted
operations at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Moscow office, occupying the premises for
a second day, adding to the U.K. oil producer’s woes in the
country.  The bailiffs, accompanied by armed men, are searching
documents containing key words as broad as “oil and gas” and
preventing employees from using their desks,  Vladimir Buyanov , a
spokesman at BP in Moscow, said by phone today.  The raid began a day after state-run OAO Rosneft replaced
BP in the arctic exploration project with  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  It’s
linked to a $3 billion suit from minority shareholders in  TNK-BP
Holding (TNBP) , the traded unit of BP’s eight-year-old venture with a
group of Russian billionaires, who say the collapse of the BP-
Rosneft alliance deprived the unit of potential profit.  The trouble echoes those BP faced when CEO  Robert Dudley 
ran TNK-BP before a 2008 shareholder dispute. Dudley fled Russia
at the end of that year, citing “sustained harassment” amid
court battles and labor and tax inspections. BP and the
billionaires’ settlement included Dudley’s ouster. BP relies on
the venture for a quarter of its production and a fifth of its
reserves.  “There has been a breach of trust between these two sides
of the company,” Lilit Gevorgyan, a London-based analyst at IHS
Global Insight, said by phone today. “It’s basically a crisis
of the joint venture.”  ‘Pressure Campaign’  Security and company lawyers have remained in the office,
while most employees, including management, are staying away,
Buyanov said. BP Exploration Operating Co., the raided entity,
said yesterday the move was part of a “pressure campaign.”  BP’s deal for the Kara Sea project and a planned swap of
$7.8 billion stakes with Rosneft collapsed in May after a
challenge by the TNK-BP billionaires. BP offered $32 billion in
cash and shares for their half of the venture, which was
rejected, in a bid to salvage the Rosneft deal, people with
knowledge of the talks said at the time.  BP and the billionaires, represented by the AAR group,
pledged today to focus on developing TNK-BP,  Russia ’s third-
biggest oil producer.  “Our company is one big family, and occasional frictions
are unavoidable in any family,” TNK-BP Chief Executive Officer
and billionaire shareholder  Mikhail Fridman  and BP’s Russia &
Kazakhstan head  David Peattie , said in an address on the
venture’s eighth anniversary today. “We, the shareholders of
TNK-BP, put our whole efforts and hearts into founding this
company. We have a keen interest in its successful growth,
development and bright future.”  BP expects the search to continue through the end of this
week, according to Buyanov.  Court Challenge  A Tyumen region arbitration court in Siberia on Aug. 30
gave the authorities the right to examine BP Exploration
Operating’s documents, said Liniya Prava, lawyers representing
the minority shareholders.  The company plans to challenge the court ruling, Buyanov
said. BP spokesman David Nicholas said yesterday the exploration
and operating company had no connection with the Tyumen legal
process.  The bailiffs inspected documents in hard copies and on
personal computers as they looked for information on the
Rosneft-BP partnership, Liniya Prava partner Dmitri Chepurenko
said in a statement. The documents will help assess damages and
“significantly increase” the claims being sought, he said.  ‘Bitter’ Billionaires  BP’s directors on the board voted down a proposal to allow
TNK-BP, Russia’s third-biggest oil producer, to replace BP in
the deal, the venture said March 12. Rosneft had said it didn’t
want TNK-BP as a partner.  The Russian billionaires are “bitter” at losing the
opportunity for the Arctic deal and are staging a “show of
force,” said Gevorgyan.  If they were able to, the Russian shareholders of TNK-BP
would like to force BP to reduce its share below 50 percent,
according to the analyst.  “However, the chances of it happening are low and it
appears they are aiming for less at the moment,” she said.
“They also know that BP is experienced and familiar with
Russia’s business culture, so will look at it as just another
difficult phase and will stand its ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  