-- 
Brazil Central Bank Statement on Interest Rate Decision (Text)

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-01T00:10:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/brazil-central-bank-statement-on-interest-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is a translation of the
statement by  Brazil ’s central bank on its interest rate decision
today.  “The Copom decided to reduce the Selic rate to 12 percent
a year, without a bias, by a vote of five in favor and two votes
for holding the Selic at 12.50 percent a year. Re-evaluating the
international scenario, the Copom considers there was a
substantial deterioration consisting of, for example, a
generalized reduction of great magnitude in the growth
projections for the principal economic blocs. The committee
understands that there was an increase in the chance that the
restrictions to which various advanced economies are exposed
today becomes prolonged for a longer-than-expected time period.
It also notes that, in these economies, the space to use
monetary policy is limited and the outlook is one of fiscal
restrictions. In this way, the Committee evaluates that the
international scenario shows a disinflationary bias in the
relevant time period.  For the Copom, the transmission of the external
developments for the Brazilian economy can materialize through
various channels, among them, a reduction in trade, moderation
of investment flows, more restrictive credit conditions and a
worsening of consumer and business sentiment. The committee
understands the complexity surrounding the international
environment will contribute to intensify and accelerate the
process of moderation in domestic activity in progress, which is
already being seen, for example, in a decline in the growth
projections for the Brazilian economy. In this way, in the
relevant time frame, the balance of inflationary risks is
becoming more favorable. In this regard, the revision of the
outlook for fiscal policy also points in this direction.  In this context, the Copom understands that, by mitigating
in a timely way the effects coming from a more restrictive
global environment, a moderate adjustment in the benchmark rate
is consistent with a scenario of inflation converging to the
target in 2012.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  