-- 
Brazilian Bank Stocks Increase as Interest Rate Cut Points to New Loans

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-09-01T20:47:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/brazil-bank-stocks-jump-as-rate-cut-points-to-new-loans-1-.html
Brazilian bank stocks rose the most
in more than fifteen months on speculation the central bank’s
surprise decision to cut  interest rates  will spark an increase
in consumer and business loans and help grow the economy.  The MSCI Brazil Financial Index jumped 5.3 percent to
824.56 at 4:45 p.m. New York time, the biggest advance since May
26, 2010.  Banco Santander  Brasil SA, the Brazilian unit of
 Spain ’s largest bank, reached a seven-week high. The Bovespa
index rose 2.9 percent.  Brazil’s central bank cut the benchmark rate half a
percentage point to 12 percent yesterday after raising it at
each of its previous five meetings. The reduction was made to
spur the Brazilian economy at a time when a “substantial
deterioration” in the global economy may be “prolonged” and
could slow trade, investment and credit flows to  Brazil , the
central bank said in a statement.  “Banks can make money whether rates are high or low, but
this is about loan growth, and investors want to see an economy
growing,” said Gustavo Schroden, analyst BES Securities Brazil,
in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “Bank stocks suffered a
lot this year, so this is a big change.”  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin America ’s largest bank by
market value, surged 6.8 percent to 30.80 reais, hitting a one-
month high. Banco Santander gained 4.5 percent to 16 reais, and
 Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , Brazil’s third-biggest bank by assets, jumped
7.4 percent to 30.23 reais.  Growth  Growth in Brazil, the world’s second-largest developing
economy after  China , is expected to slow to 3.9 percent this
year, according to a central bank survey published this week.
The economy expanded 7.5 percent in 2010, the fastest in more
than two decades.  Consumers may benefit from the benchmark rate cut as loans
are re-priced, reducing interest costs, said Victor Galliano, a
New York-based bank analyst at HSBC Investments. Consumers with
lower debts may be more inclined to increase their purchasing on
credit, he added.  “There’s been a lot of concern from investors relating to
credit quality in Brazil,” Galliano said in a phone interview.
“Lower benchmark rates should mean a bit of pressure off
delinquencies on the consumer side.”  Consumer stocks also benefited from the rate cut as Lojas
Renner SA, Brazil’s biggest publicly-traded clothing retailer,
advanced 4.8 percent to 62.75 reais. B2W Cia. Global do Varejo,
Brazil’s largest online retailer, led gainers on the Bovespa,
surging 8.4 percent to 17.40 reais, almost a two-month high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  