-- 
U.K. Bank Firebreaks Said to Be Imposed by 2015 at Earliest

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T15:42:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/british-bank-firebreaks-are-said-to-be-imposed-by-2015-at-the-earliest.html
British banks won’t be compelled to
implement proposals from the government-appointed Independent
Commission on Banking until 2015 at the earliest, according to a
person with knowledge of the discussions.  The date is the soonest possible for the commission’s
recommendations, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Introducing the new rules as late
as 2018 has also been discussed, the person said.  The process will take years rather than months because the
issues are complex, a government official said. Shares in  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  gained the most among the 46-member Bloomberg 500
Banks Index.  With the ICB due to report on Sept. 12, banks and industry
lobbyists have argued that any new rules should be postponed
because of the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery. The
commission, led by  John Vickers , 53, an Oxford academic,
recommended in April that the U.K.’s biggest banks should boost
capital, introduce plans for an orderly bankruptcy and erect
firebreaks around consumer units to protect taxpayers from
further bailouts.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat, and
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative, will
not respond to the report with immediate proposals for
legislation, a person with knowledge of the coalition
government’s thinking on bank regulation said last month.
Instead, the Cabinet’s banking committee will consider what
action to take and put forward plans before the end of the year.  Shares Rise  A parliamentary bill to implement ICB recommendations will
need to be approved by both the House of Commons and the House
of Lords before it can receive assent from  Queen Elizabeth II 
and become law. The process normally lasts several months once
it has secured a place on the government’s legislative
timetable.  RBS rose 8.2 percent to 26.25 pence in London. Lloyds
traded up 6.2 percent to 35.67 pence and Barclays gained 5.6
percent to 180.35 pence.  Cable, “who’s been one of the more vocal critics of banks
and has been making some of the more aggressive recommendations
towards the Independent Commission on Banking’s potential course
of action, has clearly started to moderate his message and this
starts to remove some of the regulatory pressure that has been a
major reason for U.K. bank underperformance more recently,”
said Alex Potter, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .  The government would be “barking mad” to implement the
proposals immediately given the fragile state of the economy,
 John Cridland , director general of the  Confederation of British
Industry , said in a BBC interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  