-- 
California Democrats’ Bill Would Scrutinize Economic Impact of Regulations

-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 
2011-09-01T20:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/california-democrats-bill-would-scrutinize-economic-impact-of-regulations.html
New business regulations proposed in
 California  would be reviewed for their effect on the economy of
the most-populous state under a bill introduced by Democratic
leaders who control the state Assembly and Senate.  Senate President Pro-tem Darrell Steinberg and Assembly
Speaker John Perez outlined the plan at a news conference with
the presidents of the California Chamber of Commerce, the
state’s largest business group, and the California Manufacturers
and Technology Association.  California’s 12 percent unemployment rate in July was the
second-highest in the U.S. behind  Nevada , surpassing the
national average of 9.1 percent,  according  to the U.S. Labor
Department. Lawmakers have debated regulatory changes to boost
economic recovery.  “We are here to put an end to the drumbeat that California
is not friendly to business,” Steinberg said today. “This is a
major step forward.”  The Democratic plan was unveiled a day after five Senate
Republicans sent Steinberg a letter calling for “rigorous,
standardized economic impact analysis” on bills to ease the
state’s “burdensome regulatory system.”  The same five senators tried unsuccessfully earlier this
year to broker a deal that would have allowed a referendum on
higher taxes sought by Governor  Jerry Brown  in exchange for
rollbacks in public pensions and environmental and business
regulations.  Allan Zaremberg, president of the 15,000-member chamber of
commerce, said the business organization is backing the
Democrats’ proposals.  ‘How to Count’  “I know how to count,” Zaremberg said, referring to the
Democratic majorities in both chambers of the Legislature. “We
need to speak with one voice. We need to be together on a
solution.”  One of the Democrats’ proposals would require state
agencies to review the potential economic impact of new
regulations. Any measure not properly analyzed would be
rejected, according to a statement from Steinberg’s office.  The bill wouldn’t scrutinize existing regulations.
Steinberg told reporters that current rules already were subject
to a “significant implementation process” and that a
retroactive review would be too time-consuming.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  