-- 
Cameron Looks to Reindustrialize Britain

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-01T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/cameron-looks-to-reindustrialize-britain.html
Mark Stein, manager of  General
Motors Co. (GM) ’s Vauxhall van plant in Luton, 29 miles north of
London, starts presentations with an aerial photo of the site in
1965. It shows a vast complex of buildings that employed more
than 35,000 workers. He points to a small red circle in the
picture. That’s where GM’s current factory is. It employs 1,500.  Manufacturing has shrunk from nearly 40 percent of
Britain’s gross domestic product in the late 1950s to not much
more than 10 percent now. What remains survives for a reason,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 5 issue. GM’s Luton
factory this year will produce 70,000 Vauxhall Vivaro vans and
other vehicles, more than 60 percent for export. Manufacturing
productivity grew 4.4 percent in the first quarter.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  has latched on to
manufacturing as a cure for Britain’s economic hangover and its
7.9 percent jobless rate. U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
says that for sustainable, long-term growth, “manufacturing is
where we need to be.”  “One of the main growth sectors of the economy in recent
years has been banking,” Cable said in an interview. “For
reasons that are blindingly obvious, that’s not going to be so
important in future.”  Expanding production may encounter obstacles. Even as the
government tries to cut red tape, other aid programs can produce
their own administrative burdens.  “If you were to write on a board how many agencies and
support schemes there are, you would be amazed,” says Bill Parfitt, GM U.K.’s chairman.  Other Barriers  Economists and some manufacturing executives also say that
boosting production may encounter other barriers. British
manufacturing as a share of GDP is smaller than  Germany ’s 20
percent, yet it is similar to the U.S. and  France , which have
big service sectors. Britain may have reached an equilibrium
between the two sectors.  “I don’t think any economist believes that growth in the
next five to 20 years will be driven by manufacturing,” says
Jonathan Portes, director of the National Institute of Economic
and Social Research.  British manufacturing lacks Germany’s advantages. Germany
has long had industrial apprenticeships for young adults: Cable
is trying to launch a U.K. apprenticeship program as well.  In Germany, midsize companies supply producers and export
on their own. In contrast, there’s GM’s supply chain in Britain.
Only 10 percent of the value of parts used at its main U.K.
plant at Ellesmere Port are made domestically. The pound’s 25
percent drop since 2007 against a basket of currencies drives up
the cost of imported parts even as it makes exports cheaper.  Technology  U.K. producers do excel at making goods where technology
counts for more than the cost of labor, says Lee Hopley, chief
economist at the Engineering Employers’ Federation. Revenue at
Vitec, a high-tech maker of gear for the broadcast, military,
and photographic markets, grew in the first half to $282 million
from $250 million.  “We do make some products in  China ,” says Chief Executive
Officer  Stephen Bird . “But my intention is that we will
continue to manufacture in both the U.K. and  Italy  because we
have great engineers.”  A secret to survival is “not competing with cheap Chinese
goods,” says Mark Henderson, CEO of MSE UK, which makes blood
centrifuges.  Yet after a post-recession expansion, U.K. manufacturing
shrank 0.5 percent in the quarter ended in June. The  trade gap 
in June for goods was £8.9 billion ($14.5 billion). Business
Secretary Cable says the weaker pound will help the U.K. gain
share even in markets where growth is slow, and commercial
diplomacy will sell more goods to  developing countries .  “The problem always has been that our export markets,
particularly the  euro zone  and the U.S., are facing challenges
of their own,” says  Jonathan Loynes , chief European economist
at  Capital Economics  in  London . “The idea that we were going to
get a helpfully timed export boom was always a bit optimistic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stanley Reed in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  