-- 
Canadian Dollar Approaches Four-Week High on U.S. Gain in Manufacturing

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-01T21:21:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/canadian-dollar-rises-toward-strongest-in-four-weeks-on-u-s-factory-gain.html
Canada ’s dollar traded at almost its
strongest level in four weeks after a report showed
manufacturing in the U.S., the nation’s biggest trading partner,
unexpectedly expanded in August.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, advanced against
the majority of its most-traded counterparts, climbing versus
the euro and yen before the Bank of Canada’s policy meeting next
week. The Canadian dollar is getting a boost because Canada has
raw materials to export and its government is committed to
balancing its budget, according to Lane Newman, director of
foreign exchange at ING Groep NV.  “People are looking for places to park their U.S. dollars
where they don’t have to worry about a run on the country,”
said Newman, speaking by phone from  New York . “In the new
paradigm where liquidity is at a premium, at certain times the
Canadian dollar benefits.”  The loonie appreciated 0.1 percent to 97.69 cents per U.S.
dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.77 cents yesterday, when it
touched 97.25, the lowest level for the greenback since Aug. 4.
One Canadian dollar buys $1.0237.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. factory index
fell less than forecast to 50.6 in August from 50.9 in the
previous month, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The
median estimate of 80 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a drop to 48.5 Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.  “ISM is helping Canada,” said  John Curran , a senior vice
president at the online currency dealer CanadianForex Ltd., by
telephone from Toronto, referring to the Canadian dollar.  Loonie Versus Euro  The Canadian currency gained 0.9 percent to C$1.3930
against the euro after a report showed  Europe ’s manufacturing
contracted in August more than initially estimated, adding to
signs that the euro region’s recovery is faltering. The loonie
gained 0.4 percent to 78.75 yen.  Investors should bet against the euro by buying the
Canadian dollar as political dissent in  Germany  threatens
passage of expanded measures to contain Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis, according to BNP Paribas SA.  “The euro is likely to struggle over the coming weeks,”
Rob Ryan, a strategist at BNP Paribas in  Singapore , wrote today
in a research note. “But if we favor going short euro, we find
it difficult to do so against the dollar.” A short is a bet an
asset will decline in value.  BNP Paribas favors shorting the euro versus the Canadian
dollar at C$1.41 with a target of C$1.36, Ryan wrote. Investors
should exit the trade if the euro appreciates to a level higher
than C$1.43, according to BNP Paribas.  ‘Significant Problems’  “‘Euro still has significant problems in terms of
sovereign risk, in terms of growth, in terms of structural
separation between the north and the south,” ING’s Newman said.  Government bonds  advanced, with the yield on 10-year debt
down 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to 2.39 percent.
That’s 26 basis points higher than equivalent-maturity
Treasuries, from 27 basis points yesterday, the widest spread
since November 2010. The price of the 3.25 percent Canadian
security maturing in June 2021 increased 90 cents to C$107.45.  Trading in overnight index swaps show no chance of an
increase in the Bank of Canada’s target rate for overnight
lending between commercial banks, now at 1 percent, at the
December meeting, according to Bloomberg data. The chance of a
quarter-point cut by December has increased to 44 percent. On
April 30, odds of an increase in rates were more than 90
percent, with no chance of a cut, Bloomberg data show.  Carney on ‘Risks’  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in Aug. 19
testimony to parliament that “several downside risks” have
been realized since his July decision to keep the bank’s main
lending rate unchanged, including a deepening of Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis and “the persistent strength of the
Canadian dollar.” Policy makers next meet on Sept. 7 to
determine rates.  The loonie has averaged about 97.50 cents per U.S. dollar
in 2011, compared with C$1.04 from January through August of
last year and $1.18 during the period in 2009. A stronger
currency crimps exports because it makes goods more expensive in
other countries.  Canada’s dollar rallied to a three-year high of 94.07 cents
on July 26 before plunging to below parity Aug. 9 on concern the
 U.S. economy , the primary market for Canada’s energy products,
may be heading into another recession.  The loonie dropped 2.3 percent in August on speculation
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will sap risk demand and concern
the global economy is slowing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  