-- 
CareFusion, Pfizer, Levi Strauss: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-09-01T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/carefusion-pfizer-rim-levi-strauss-intellectual-property.html
CareFusion Corp. (CFN)  sued  Hospira Inc. (HSP) 
over patents for drug-delivery systems and is seeking a jury
trial, damages and an order barring infringement.  Hospira, based in Lake Forest, Illinois, is using protected
technology in products including the  Symbiq , Plum and LifeCare
brand of infusion equipment, CareFusion said in papers filed
Aug. 30 in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  In dispute are patents 7,171,277, issued in January 2007,
and 7,835,927, issued in November 2010.  “The evidence will likely show” that Hospira has “acted
with disregard of CareFusion’s patent rights, without any
reasonable basis for doing so,” and should pay lost profits and
royalties to San Diego-based CareFusion, according to the
complaint.  CareFusion itself was sued Aug. 29 in federal court in
 Chicago  by rival B. Braun Medical Inc. over infusion-pump
patents, according to a B. Braun statement.  “We think we’ve got a strong position in this suit and our
plan is to vigorously defend it,” said Hospira spokeswoman
Tareta Adams in a telephone interview.  CareFusion had $3.52 billion in sales last fiscal year, and
Hospira had $3.91 billion in 2010 sales.  The case is CareFusion v. Hospira, 11-762, U.S. District
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Pfizer Settles Lipitor Suit With Generic Maker Dr. Reddy’s  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, settled a
patent-infringement lawsuit with the Indian generic-drug maker
Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. over the cholesterol-control drug
Lipitor. The terms were undisclosed.  The companies settled the litigation Aug. 19, and U.S.
District Judge Leonard P. Stark in Wilmington, Delaware,
dismissed the case Aug. 29, according to court records.  “We have closed our litigation with Pfizer, but the date
of entry into the market is not yet confirmed,” Kedar Upadhye,
a spokesman for Dr. Reddy’s, said in a statement.  Dr. Reddy’s, of Hyderabad,  India , announced the settlement
yesterday in a news release. The confidential agreement is
subject to review by the U.S. Justice Department and the Federal
Trade Commission, the company said.  Pfizer, based in  New York , sued Dr. Reddy’s in December
2009 over patent 5,969,156, which covers the compound
atorvastatin calcium, the Lipitor drug.  The case is Pfizer v. Dr. Reddy’s, 1:09-cv-00943, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  RIM Opposes U.S., Canadian ‘Webkit’ Trademarks for Apple  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the maker of the BlackBerry mobile
communications device, has filed papers with the Canadian
Intellectual Property Office to oppose a trademark filing by
Apple Inc.  According to the CIPO database, Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM
opposed Apple’s application to register “webkit” as a
trademark for computer software, computer search engine software
and Internet browser software.  Cupertino, California-based Apple filed its application in
May 2010. The company said it’s used the mark in  Canada  since at
least November 2003.  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, Apple filed a U.S. application to register the mark in
May 2010. Both RIM and  Nokia OYJ (NOK1V)  have filed papers in opposition
to that application.  In Canada, RIM has until mid-November to file a statement
of its reasons to oppose Apple’s registration. In the U.S., the
deadline for filing the opposition is Oct. 26.  Levi Strauss’s European Trademark Claim Not for U.S. Court  Levi Strauss & Co.’s European trademark claim against a
seller of the  San Francisco  company’s discontinued jeans was
rejected by a federal court in San Francisco.  U.S. District Judge Jeffrey S. White said there were
“compelling reasons” not to exercise jurisdiction over the
company’s European trademark claim. He suggested possibilities
of jury confusion, and a potential to prejudice the rights of
European governments were reasons to bar Levi Strauss from
pursuing those particular claims in a U.S. court.  He did say that his dismissal of the European claim
wouldn’t bar Levi Strauss from pursing that claim “in the
appropriate foreign tribunal.”  The case is Levi Strauss & Co v. Papikian Enterprises Inc.,
3:10-cv-05051-JSW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 California  (San Francisco).  Hachette’s ‘Don’t Mess With  Texas ’ Publication Can Go Ahead  Hachette Book Group Inc. persuaded a federal judge in
Austin, Texas, to deny a request for an immediate halt to the
publication of a romance novel the Texas Department of
Transportation claimed infringed the “Don’t Mess With Texas”
trademark it used for its anti-litter campaign.  U.S. District Judge Sam Sparks said that Christine Craig’s
“ Don’t Mess with Texas ” can be published and that he doubted
the books “will fly off the shelves with such speed that sales
could not be enjoined in the future should the Texas DOT prevail
on its claims in this lawsuit.”  He said he wasn’t convinced that the transportation
department’s suit “has a substantial likelihood of success on
the merits.” In his Aug. 22 order, Judge Sparks noted that the
publisher has a First Amendment right to choose appropriate
titles for literary works” and that none of the DOT’s trademark
registrations for that phrase cover books.  The case is Texas Department of Transportation v. Craig
1:11-cv-00726-SS, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  Performer Rick Ross Sued by Rapper Askew Over ‘Teflon Don’ Mark  The rap performer who uses the stage name Rick Ross was
sued for trademark infringement by a second rapper over his use
of the name “Teflon Don” on an album.  The suit, filed in federal court in Memphis, Tennessee, on
Aug. 29, also names Universal Music Group, its Def Jam Recording
unit, and DJ Khaled, who heads the Def Jam South unit. Rapper
Donald Ray Askew Jr. claims he was the first to use the name
“Teflon Don,” and that both performers compete in the same
market.  Askew says his brand is infringed, and asked the court for
an award of $20 million.  This is the second trademark infringement suit against
Ross. The performer, whose real name is William Leonard Roberts
II, was previously sued by Ricky D. Ross of  Los Angeles . The
California plaintiff claimed his name and prior criminal image
were exploited by the performer without authorization. Ricky D.
Ross is the subject of a 2001 film “100 Kilos,” that focused
on his life as a drug dealer.  According to the complaint in that case, Leonard, who had
served as a corrections officer in Dade County,  Florida , falsely
claimed he had a criminal past and tried to deceive the public
as to his affiliation with Ricky D. Ross.  Ross’s case against Leonard was dismissed in 2010, and he
is presently appealing that dismissal.  That case is Ricky D. Ross v. William Leonard Roberts II,
2:10-cv-04428-PA-RZ, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California (Los Angeles).  DuPont & Co. registered “Teflon” with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office. According to the patent office database, the
Wilmington, Delaware-based chemical company has used the mark
for its  polytetrafluoroethylene  products since 1944. The company
has filed a number of infringement suits involving the Teflon
mark over the years, including a November 2009 case against a
record company then known as Teflon Blood.  Askew is unrepresented by counsel. His hand-written
complaint appears to have been filed on a form used by
prisoners. He says in the complaint that he is not in
confinement.  His case against Leonard is Donald Askew Jr. v. William
Leonard Roberts, 2:11-cv-02738-JDT-tmp, U.S. District Court,
Western District of Tennessee (Memphis).  IP  Australia  Says Improving Economy Triggering Trademark Filings  Trademark filings have increased in Australia to levels
achieved before the recent economic slowdown, according to data
from IP Australia.  In the 2010-2011 fiscal year, 69,003 applications were
filed, up from 67,738 the previous year. The previous high was
in fiscal year 2007-2008, when 68,659 applications were filed.  IP Australia said in a  statement  that in addition to an
improved economic climate, a growing awareness of the value of
 intellectual property  may have triggered the rise.  In a recent poll of small businesses in Australia, the
percentage of respondents rating themselves as “very aware” of
IP issues rose from 15 percent the previous year to 23 percent,
IP Australia said.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Edgartown Library Threatened with Copyright Infringement Suit  A public library in Martha’s Vineyard, Massachusetts, has
been threatened with a copyright infringement suit by a private
consultant who claims to hold the rights to the slogan
“Frankly, We Love Our Library,” the Vineyard Gazette  reported .  Danielle Pendergraft and her Holiday Public Relations have
demanded the Edgartown Library Foundation quit using the phrase,
which she says her company owns, according to the Gazette.  Holiday Public Relations of Edgartown has held the mark
since July 2009, Pendergraft told the Gazette, and said she
intends to keep the rights.  Although the Edgartown Library Foundation changed the name
of its annual Labor Day fundraiser from “Frankly, We Love our
Library” to “We Love Our Library,” Pendergraft told the
Gazette the change was insufficient and that the library will be
hearing from her legal counsel.  Minesage’s Chinese Newspaper IPad App Infringes, Court Rules  Minesage Co. Ltd.  was hit with a 100,000 Chinese yuan
($15,700) fine for its application for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad that
provides Chinese language news, China Daily  reported .  The Beijing News claimed Minesage’s Chinese Newspapers app
infringed copyrights on its content and layouts, according to
the newspaper.  A spokesman for the Beijing News told the China Daily that
legal action was pursued only after Minesage failed to respond
to cease-and-desist requests.  Yuan Fuzhen of the Shanghai Intellectual Property Research
Institute told the Beijing News that in light of this case,
compensation for infringement should be increased because the
present level “creates an imbalance between the cost of
defending one’s rights and the illegal income to the
infringer.”  Nigeria Copyright Infringement Issues Focus of ‘No Music Day’  Broadcast stations throughout Nigeria were requested to
devote programming today to discussions of the rights of
musicians and other artists instead of playing music, the Music
Industry News Network  reported .  The Copyright Society of Nigeria designated today as “No
Music Day,” intended to draw national attention to widespread
infringement in the music industry, according to Music Industry
News Network.  “No Music Day” was first observed in Nigeria in 2009
following a weeklong hunger-strike campaign waged by Nigerian
performers in protest of copyright infringement, Music Industry
News Network reported.  The annual event has focused public attention on
infringement issues, and promoted vigorous copyright enforcement
actions in Nigeria, according to Music Industry News Network.  For more copyright news, click here  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  TCW Rests Case in Gundlach Trial Over Trade Secrets, Fees  TCW Group Inc. rested its case in the trial that pits the
asset-management firm against its former chief investment
officer,  Jeffrey Gundlach .  Former TCW president Bill Sonneborn, now chief executive
officer of KKR Financial Holdings LLC, was the last witness TCW
called to support its claims that Gundlach and three other
former employees stole TCW’s trade secrets to start DoubleLine
Capital LP, the rival asset-management business Gundlach set up
10 days after TCW fired him in December 2009.  “I encouraged him to terminate Jeffrey,” Sonneborn told
the jurors, recalling an August 2009 conversation he had with
TCW CEO Marc Stern. Sonneborn, who had left TCW in 2008, said he
told Stern that Gundlach was becoming a disease or a cancer for
the company. Sonneborn said Stern was unwilling to fire Gundlach
at that time because he was too important for TCW.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW’s damages
expert told jurors in California state court in Los Angeles that
the company suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s
alleged interference with contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  DoubleLine called its first witness yesterday, Paul Deitch
of Oaktree Capital Management LP, who testified that Oaktree
helped set up DoubleLine in December 2009 and got it up and
running in exchange for an equity stake in the company.  DoubleLine’s people were far from ready to start an
investment company when he first met with them the week after
Gundlach was fired, Deitch said.  Gundlach, who testified for four days, has denied that
DoubleLine used any of TCW’s trade secrets or proprietary
information and said that the success of his funds was due to
“experience and thinking” rather than to analytical systems.  Cris Santa Ana, a former managing director of Gundlach’s
mortgage-backed securities group at TCW, testified that Gundlach
instructed him in September 2009 to start backing up data that
“might be useful to have” in case Gundlach was fired. Santa
Ana is a co-defendant and cross-complainant with Gundlach.  Gundlach’s fixed-income group managed more than half of
TCW’s $110 billion assets under management before he was fired.  Stern testified he became suspicious in September 2009 and
started checking Gundlach’s e-mails. Stern said he discovered
that Gundlach and people from his group were copying TCW files
and looking for office space.  TCW claims it fired Gundlach because he was allegedly
stealing trade secrets and confidential information as he
secretly set up a rival firm. DoubleLine has argued that Stern
started looking into alternatives for Gundlach as early as June
of 2009, after Stern returned to active management and before
Gundlach’s people copied any TCW files.  TCW acquired Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC on Dec.
4, 2009, the day Gundlach was fired.  Stern told the jurors that in January 2010 he was forced to
cut the fees for the distressed-asset funds that Gundlach had
managed and to allow clients to withdraw their investments from
the funds.  Although they normally wouldn’t be allowed to do this, it
was allowed because of pressure generated by Gundlach’s comments
to the investors after he was fired. Brian said.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 