-- 
Cargill Boosts Texas Hog Output Expecting Demand Gain in U.S. Pork Exports

-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-09-01T16:31:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/cargill-boosts-texas-hog-output-expecting-demand-gain-in-u-s-pork-exports.html
Cargill  Inc., the fourth-largest
U.S. pork processor, predicts U.S. exports of the meat will keep
climbing and plans to begin breeding hogs this month at a Texas
farm it bought from a competitor.  An expanding middle class in developing nations should help
to increase global meat consumption, said Dirk Jones, president
of Cargill Pork in Wichita, Kansas. The U.S. has the land and
labor available to raise hogs more cheaply than countries such
as Mexico, he said.  “We do take a longer-term view,” Jones said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “Our industry should be
optimistic about growth. We see the growth continuing in the
industry, specifically in the export market.”  U.S. pork exports climbed 15 percent in the first six
months of 2011 to about 2.45 billion pounds, according to
government  data .  Per-capita  pork consumption in  China , the
world’s second-largest economy, jumped 18 percent to 38
kilograms (84 pounds) in 2010 from 32.3 kilograms in 2007, USDA
data shows.  “The real growth is outside the U.S.,”  said Erin Borror,
an economist for the U.S. Meat Export Federation. “Export
markets are outbidding U.S. customers.”  Cargill bought its 21,500-acre hog production site near
Dalhart, Texas, in April. It paid $33 million to  Smithfield
Foods Inc. (SFD) , the world’s largest hog producer, for the facility,
which will supply pigs for Cargill’s processing plants in
Beardstown, Illinois, and Ottumwa,  Iowa . Meat from the hogs
reared at the Texas site, which has been idle since spring 2010,
will be sold both domestically and outside the U.S., Jones said.  Feed Costs  About 5.8 million sows were held for breeding in the U.S.
as of June 1, almost the lowest on record, the Department of
Agriculture said June 24. U.S. per-capita pork supplies will
drop 3.8 percent to 45.9 pounds this year, the government has
forecast. The price of  animal feed  has climbed, with the most-
active corn futures in  Chicago  rising 70 percent in the past 12
months.  Cargill’s expansion plan is one of the only ones in the
U.S. pork industry, said  Steve Meyer , president of Paragon
Economics in  Des Moines , Iowa.  “People are afraid of expensive corn,” he said. Tyson
Foods Inc. and JBS Swift are the second- and third-largest U.S.
pork processors, according National Pork Board data cited on
Tyson’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  