-- 
CelsiusPro, eWeatherRisk Fire Up Market for Weather Contracts

-- B y   A n t o i n e   G a r a   a n d   D a v i d   R o c k s
-- 
2011-09-01T21:56:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/celsiusporo-eweatherrisk-fire-up-market-for-weather-contracts.html
     Sept. 1 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Unlike many
Midwesterners, Mike Betts loves deep snow. A Thanksgiving
blizzard? Bring it on. A foot for April Fool’s Day? Perfect. His
company, With a Grain of Salt, sells de-icing compounds, which
means one of Betts’s worst nightmares isn’t too much snow but too
little. So last year he paid $65,000 for contracts on the Chicago
Mercantile Exchange that would have paid him $260,000 if
 Detroit ’s airport (a proxy for the region) received no snow in
December. The airport got 9.3 inches that month, and Betts lost
his gamble, but the snowfall gave him enough wingtip-destroying
salt sales to offset the trade. This year he plans to buy
contracts that stretch through the entire winter. “I go home with
less risk and guaranteed profitability in the event of light
snowfall,” Betts says.  Weather traders hope more businesses follow in Betts’s
footprints. They see big profits in selling weather contracts to
customers beyond their traditional market—energy industry buyers
looking to offset the risk that a warm winter or cool summer
might hurt gas or electricity sales. “If you are in a business
where your revenue is determined by snowfall, then by not hedging
you are actually gambling,” says Jeff Hodgson, president of
Chicago Weather Brokerage, who helped Betts complete his trade.  The Weather Risk Management Assn. says this year’s record
snowfall, flooding, heat, and drought prove the importance of
weather contracts. The industry group of 46 companies points to a
June study by the National Center for Atmospheric Research (NCAR)
that says abnormal weather can subtract roughly $240 billion from
the economy in any given year. “Weather risk is truly a risk that
permeates our society,” says Bill Windle, the group’s president
and managing director of RenRe Energy Advisors, a top seller of
weather hedges. “I am betting my kids’ college education” on the
business.  The weather trading market grew 19 percent last year,
according to a survey commissioned by Windle’s group and released
in May by PricewaterhouseCoopers. That increase was bolstered by
a 29 percent jump in customized weather derivatives, or contracts
between two parties. Those can be tied to, say, a January thaw in
 Vermont , a February freeze in  Florida , or a May drought in
 Iowa —virtually any kind of weather at any time or place. Sandeep
Ramachandran, a weather expert at reinsurer SwissRe, expects
sales of such private contracts to climb 30 percent-plus
annually, while the broader market for weather derivatives traded
on the CME will grow about half that fast. “These products really
help to smooth our clients’ revenue,” says Ramachandran.  Skeptics say weather contracts are too complex for Main
Street. The market for weather trading peaked in 2005-06 but has
since fallen about 75 percent, to $12 billion, PwC reports.
People in the industry say that’s because an ample supply of
natural gas means energy companies have less need to hedge
demand. Jeffrey Lazo, a scientist who oversaw NCAR’s study, says
his research shows that weather can add to profits as much as it
can hurt them, so for many companies there might not be a point
in paying for hedges. “The cost of weatherproofing the country
would be much greater than the benefit,” Lazo says.  To attract more customers, traders are selling new types of
weather derivatives. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange launched
snowfall trading in 2006 and has since added 50 new contracts on
weather such as rainfall in various countries around the world,
for a total of 67 offerings. And new websites such as CelsiusPro
and eWeatherRisk offer brokerage services to a much broader
market. “I’ve farmed for 28 years, and this is the first crop
we’ve insured for weather,” says Enos Grauerholz, owner of a
6,000-acre farm in Beloit, Kan. He paid eWeatherRisk roughly
$25,000 for $200,000 of heat and rainfall protection for his
soybeans. “That’s cheap,” he says. “I’m going to buy a lot more.”  A few companies use weather derivatives to pay for creative
marketing. New York parka maker Weatherproof Garment created a
promotion in 2009 called “If It’s Freezing, It’s Free.” In it,
Macy’s promised to credit customers for the full cost of
Weatherproof coats bought in early November if there was a cold
snap on Thanksgiving Day. To cover potential losses, Weatherproof
Chief Executive Officer Eliot Peyser made a bet using derivatives
that would pay him $25,000 if the temperature dipped below
32 degrees in Central Park that day. Peyser says the sale boosted
revenue by 11 percent and is planning a similar promotion based
on snowfall this holiday season. Building his marketing around
such trades is not unlike a trip to a casino, he says, where
“you’re betting that [the weather] is going to be very unusual.”