-- 
CEO Pay Study, AT&T Merger, Austria Banks, Germany EFSF Law: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-09-01T12:30:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ceo-pay-study-at-t-merger-deal-germany-efsf-law-compliance.html
Twenty-five of the best-paid chief
executive officers in the U.S. earned more in salary and other
compensation in 2010 than their companies’ federal income tax
expenses as disclosed in public filings, according to a  report 
by the  Institute for Policy Studies .  The Washington-based nonprofit group’s report, released
yesterday, examined 100 publicly traded U.S. corporations with
the highest-paid CEOs. It found that companies whose CEOs’
compensation exceeded reported tax expense in 2010 had average
global profits of $1.9 billion.  The tax expense reported in annual financial statements can
differ from actual tax payments, which are confidential, for a
variety of reasons.  The institute said its findings underscore the need for an
overhaul of the U.S. tax code that would reduce the number of
tax strategies available to companies, especially their ability
to lower tax payments by parking profits overseas.  Eighteen of the 25 companies mentioned in the report
operated subsidiaries in countries known as offshore  tax havens ,
Chuck Collins, one of the report’s authors, said in an
interview.  Legislation proposed by Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, would eliminate many of the tax-avoidance practices
used by companies in the study, Collins said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Revamped EFSF Can’t Lend Direct to Banks, German Draft Shows  Changes to the European Financial Stability Facility due to
take effect in October won’t allow banks in need of capital to
tap the euro backstop directly, a draft law that forms the basis
of  Germany ’s approval to the measures shows.  “The EFSF can extend loans to a euro member state that are
used to recapitalize financial institutions of this member state
even if it is not subjected to a comprehensive economic and
fiscal adjustment program,” the Finance Ministry said in an
explanatory note to the draft backed by  Chancellor Angela
Merkel ’s Cabinet in Berlin yesterday.  The draft shows that Germany is closely following the
recommendations of a European Union  summit  on July 21 that
emphasized states’ role in tackling bank crises before tapping
the EFSF. It echoes comments yesterday by Michael Meister, the
finance spokesman in parliament of Merkel’s Christian Democrats,
defense lawyer Ethan Balogh that the EFSF should lend to states
and not to banks directly.  “A recapitalization by means of a loan by the EFSF can
only be made if the country in question is not in a position to
execute the recapitalization that’s necessary for the stability
of the  euro zone  by its own means,” the draft said.  For more, click here.  FSA, U.K. Treasury Publish Proposals on N.Irish  Credit Unions   The Financial Services Authority and the  U.K. Treasury 
published a joint consultation paper setting out proposals for
the transfer of the regulation of Northern Ireland credit
unions.  The paper describes how the credit unions will be regulated
by the authority and brought under the protection of the
Financial Services Compensation Protection Scheme, a “last
resort” fund that protects consumers against losses in
financial services products including bank deposits, mortgages
and insurance, the Treasury said in a statement on its website.  The credit unions, under the proposal, would also be under
the jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Office, according to
a statement on the U.K. Treasury’s website.  China  to Let Insurers Buy  Hong Kong  Derivatives, Securities Says  The  China Insurance Regulatory Commission  is amending rules
to allow domestic insurers to invest in derivatives in Hong
Kong, Shanghai Securities News reported, without saying where it
got the information.  Currently, mainland insurance companies may buy only
stocks, bonds and funds in Hong Kong, the newspaper said
yesterday. The insurers had 5.75 trillion yuan of combined
assets as of June 30, according to the report.  Compliance Action  SEC Approves Concept Release on Mutual Funds’ Use of Derivatives  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is seeking
comment on a set of ideas for new regulations on derivatives
investments by mutual and exchange-traded funds, which hold more
than $13 trillion in assets.  SEC commissioners voted 4-0 to publish the so-called
concept release during a meeting in  Washington  yesterday. The
SEC has been reviewing how investment companies use derivatives,
which were not, for the most part, contemplated at the time the
securities laws were first written decades ago.  A 60-day comment period will begin after the release is
published in the Federal Register.  SEC Seeking Comment on Changes to Asset-Backed Securities Rules  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will weigh
public comments in a re-examination of regulatory exemptions for
issuers of asset-backed securities and real estate investment
trusts.  SEC commissioners voted 4-0 to seek comment on proposed
changes to the Investment Company Act during a meeting in
Washington yesterday.  Austria Cuts Estimate of Banks’ Basel Capital Needs by 30%  The Austrian central bank lowered its estimates on how much
additional core Tier 1 capital the country’s lenders need to
comply with global rules and pay back state aid by 30 percent to
7 billion euros ($10 billion).  This is less than the 10 billion euros estimated in
December, said Andreas Ittner, the central bank’s director
responsible for bank supervision. The figure includes about 6
billion euros of so-called participation capital provided by the
Austria government and private investors during the financial
crisis that still need to be repaid, he said.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s rules require
banks to have common equity equal to at least 7 percent of their
risk-weighted assets. Austrian banks will need from 11 billion
euros to 14 billion euros to meet both the core Tier 1 and total
capital ratios, down from a December estimate of 15 billion
euros to 18 billion euros, according to the central bank.  Austria’s central bank, financial regulator and  finance
ministry  are working on a response to a proposal for
implementing the Basel rules in the European Union. The
statement will be submitted in mid-September, Ittner said.  SEC Accuses Ex-Syntax-Brillian Executives of Accounting Fraud  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission accused three
former executives of Syntax-Brillian Corp. of booking fake sales
of high-definition televisions in China to artificially inflate
the firm’s earnings.  James Li, who served in various executive roles at Tempe,
Arizona-based Syntax, and former chief procurement officer
 Thomas Chow  used phony shipping and sales documents to funnel
millions of dollars from 2006 to 2008 through a Taiwan-based
manufacturer and a purported customer in Hong Kong, the SEC said
in a statement yesterday. Li agreed to pay a $100,000 penalty
and other sanctions to be determined by U.S. District Court in
Arizona, and the lawsuit against Chow continues, the SEC said.  Wayne Pratt, Syntax’s former chief financial officer,
agreed to pay more than $200,000 to resolve claims he ignored
signs of the improper accounting, according to the statement.  In settling the claims, Li and Pratt didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing. A phone call to Pratt wasn’t immediately returned. A
person answering a number listed for James Li in  San Jose ,
 California , hung up without responding to questions. A phone
number for Thomas Chow couldn’t immediately be located.  China Appeals WTO Ruling on Raw-Material Export Restrictions  China yesterday appealed a  World Trade Organization  ruling
in July that found its export controls over raw materials
including coke, zinc and magnesium violate global rules, the
Geneva-based WTO said on its website.  The appeal will be heard by a three-person panel drawn from
the Appellate Body, which is comprised of seven people who have
no government affiliations, the WTO said in a statement on its
website. Appeals are limited to “points of law,” and may not
revisit factual issues, the WTO said on the website.  The Appellate Body has “up to three months” to made a
decision, according to the WTO’s statement.  FSA Contemplating ‘Unilateral’ Pinewood Listing Cancellation  Pinewood Shepperton Plc (PWS)  said it’s been advised that the
Financial Services Authority is “contemplating whether actions
are warranted in connection with the future status of the
company’s listing on the London Stock Exchange.”  “The company has further been advised that one option
would be for the FSA to undertake a unilateral listing
cancellation procedure in recognition of the fact that the
company no longer meets the eligibility requirements for
listing,” Pinewood said yesterday.  Courts  U.S. Moves to Block AT&T-T-Mobile USA Deal as Harmful to Market  The U.S. sued to block  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc., saying the deal would
“substantially lessen competition” in the wireless market.
AT&T shares fell as much as 5.5 percent.  In the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Washington, the  Justice Department  is seeking a declaration that
Dallas-based AT&T’s takeover of T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , would violate U.S. antitrust law. The U.S. also
asked for a court order blocking implementation of the deal.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson’s proposed
purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile, announced in
March, would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to
create a new market leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless. The
new company would dwarf current No. 3 carrier  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S) , which argued against the deal.  AT&T was surprised by the decision to sue, according to a
statement by Wayne Watts, AT&T’s general counsel. The company,
which will fight the suit, plans to ask for an expedited hearing
so the court can review the “enormous benefits” of the merger,
he said.  Philipp Schindera, a spokesman at Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom, declined to immediately comment on the filing.  Rejection by regulators would leave AT&T liable to pay
Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash, to give T-Mobile USA
wireless spectrum and to reduce charges for calls into AT&T’s
network, a package valued at as much as $7 billion, Deutsche
Telekom has said.  The Federal Communications Commission asked AT&T for more
information about how the deal would expand high-speed wireless
service in the U.S. Cable and satellite carriers including Dish
Network Corp. and Cablevision Systems Corp. have also protested
the deal.  The FCC said yesterday that it was continuing its review.  For more, click here.  For commentary on the suit by Christopher King, an analyst
at Stifel Nicolaus & Co., on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness
with Margaret Brennan,” click here.  For a report by Peter Cook on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan,” click here.  For commentary by Bloomberg Government analyst Edward
Goodmann and Frederick Tecce, a former assistant U.S. Attorney,
on Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart,” click here.  For commentary by  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities LLC, on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack,”
click here.  For commentary by Sachin Shah, merger arbitrage strategist
with Tullett Prebon Americas Corp., on Bloomberg Television’s
“Fast Forward,” click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 