-- 
CEO Turnover at Six-Year High as Apple Joins PG&E in Transition

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-01T16:17:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ceo-turnover-at-six-year-high-as-apple-joins-pg-e-in-transition.html
U.S. companies are hiring new chief
executive officers this year at the quickest pace since 2005 as
directors seek growth after putting off management changes while
riding out the recession.  Turnover is running at a 13 percent rate this year after a
15-year low of 10 percent in 2010, according to a study of 669
large companies by Hinsdale, Illinois-based search firm
 Crist|Kolder Associates . The firm tracked moves through July at
companies from the Fortune 500 and  Standard & Poor’s 500 .  From  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  grooming a new chief to utility
 PG&E Corp. (PCG)  picking its first outsider ever, directors are now
more willing to shift leaders, said Gail Meneley, founding
principal at executive recruiter  Shields Meneley Partners  in
 Chicago . Boards want CEOs to tap cash hoards that reached $2.76
trillion at S&P 500 companies last quarter, she said.  “Over the last 30 months, there’s been a huge focus on
operating efficiency, downsizing, streamlining and cost
reduction,” Meneley said in an interview. “Now they’re looking
for people to drive growth, revenue and innovation.”  Wendy’s Co. joined the roster of CEO transitions today,
appointing Emil J. Brolick, 63, to take over at the operator of
more than 6,500 fast-food restaurants on Sept. 12 from Roland Smith, 57. Brolick is chief operating officer of Yum! Brands
Inc., which owns the Taco Bell, KFC and Pizza Hut chains.  ‘Pretty Confident’  “Companies are pretty confident with the way things are
going,” said Matt McGreal, chief of Crist|Kolder’s corporate
governance practice. “So now they’re open to making these
changes despite the recent rockiness of the market.”  Two S&P 500 companies announced moves yesterday: Costco,
the largest U.S. wholesale-club chain, named a successor for its
75-year-old CEO, Jim Sinegal, at year’s end, while  Bank of New
York Mellon Corp. (BK)  said its chief left due to “differences with
the board” over how to manage the company.  The C-suite churn includes CEOs as high profile as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s  Steve Jobs , who took a medical leave in January as he
battled cancer, then announced he was resigning on Aug. 24.  Jobs, 56, left after building the start-up he founded in
1976 into the world’s largest technology company and a rival to
 Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  as the biggest by market value. He rejoined
Cupertino, California-based Apple in 1997 after being ousted 12
years earlier and presided over a 9,000 percent stock gain.  Business Cycles  Historically, CEO turnover runs counter to business cycles,
said Peter Thies, senior partner at Los Angeles-based executive
search firm Korn/Ferry International. Companies tend to hang on
to leaders when the economy sours and seek new blood during an
expansion as excuses vanish for slow growth, he said.  “We are being put on more and more CEO searches,” Thies
said in an interview. “That activity is heating up.”  Pent-up demand for leadership changes is enough to extend
the pattern through year’s end even as the economy slows, Thies
said. Gross domestic product expanded at a 1 percent annual rate
last quarter and 0.4 percent in the first quarter, down from 2.3
percent in the last three months of 2010.  CEO turnover last year was the lowest since 1995, according
to Crist|Kolder. A 13 percent rate for all of 2011 would be the
highest since 16 percent in 2005, Crist|Kolder said.  Liberum Research  also sees a rebound in hiring this year.
There were 927 CEO changes in the first half, compared with
1,335 for all of 2010, according to New York-based Liberum,
which tracks all companies that disclose the moves, most of
which are in the U.S. Last quarter’s 581 changes were the most
since the first three months of 2008.  Corporate Crises  Some of the hiring this year stems from corporate crises
that force a board’s hand.  PG&E hired  DTE Energy Co. (DTE) ’s Anthony Earley, 62, last month
after CEO Peter A. Darbee, 58, resigned in April. Earley will be
the first outsider to run the 106-year-old San Francisco-based
utility and arrives amid regulatory reviews and a criminal probe
into a 2010 pipeline blast that killed eight people.  BNY Mellon handed the reins to President Gerald L. Hassell
as Robert P. Kelly departed the world’s largest custody bank.
New York-based BNY Mellon didn’t specify the differences that
led to Kelly’s exit, and a spokesman, Jeep Bryant, declined to
comment.  Like Apple, technology bellwethers  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and Google Inc. have all brought in
new leaders in the past year. In May, hedge fund manager  David Einhorn  called on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to replace CEO  Steve Ballmer .  CEO Pay  Directors can face criticism over CEOs’ performance for
reasons other than profits and stock returns.  Salary and other compensation for 25 of the best-paid CEOs
last year exceeded the U.S. income-tax expenses their companies
disclosed in public filings, the Washington-based nonprofit
group Institute for Policy Studies said in a  report  yesterday.
“Businesses and CEOs shouldn’t be rewarded for so aggressively
avoiding their responsibility to pay taxes,” said Chuck
Collins, one of the authors.  Almost half of companies use the COO position as a training
ground for becoming CEO, Crist|Kolder’s McGreal said.  Costco went that route in February 2010 by naming Craig Jelinek as president and COO of the Issaquah, Washington-based
company. Jelinek “worked hand in hand” with Sinegal over the
last 18 months, Costco said yesterday.  At 3M Corp., where CEO  George Buckley ’s contract ends on
his 65th birthday, in 2012, Inge Thulin, 57, was appointed in
May as COO, a new position. While  St. Paul , Minnesota-based 3M
declined again yesterday to discuss succession, McGreal said
Thulin was the company’s choice.  ‘Succession Tool’  “They’ve made their selection,” McGreal said. “Everybody
believes they are using that as a succession tool to give him
some additional exposure to the entire company.”  Companies can lose top talent if they wait too long to
promote, McGreal said. New Apple CEO  Tim Cook , 50, caught the
eye of several companies as he managed day-to-day affairs as
COO, McGreal said.  “A lot of other companies wanted him so it was probably a
good thing that they locked him up,” McGreal said. “He was
probably the biggest fish out there in terms of companies trying
to get him to be their CEO.”  Apple’s executive suite already had been raided this year.
Department-store operator J.C. Penney Co. lured  Ron Johnson , who
created the retail empire at the computer-and-phone maker, to
succeed CEO Myron Ullman, 64, on Nov. 1.  While Ullman boosted sales at Plano, Texas-based J.C.
Penney by 1.2 percent in 2010 after three annual declines,
Johnson arrives from a company whose revenue soared 52 percent
in its last fiscal year. “It’s our job to rethink everything,”
Johnson said after being named to the post in June.  That’s the kind of approach that appeals to directors
making a leadership change as their focus shifts to growth from
mere survival in a recession, Meneley said.  “Remaining the same is no longer an option,” Meneley
said. “There’s too much risk being in neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  