-- 
McHale’s Father Feels More Stress Watching U.S. Open Than in Finance Job

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/mchale-s-father-feels-more-stress-watching-u-s-open-than-in-finance-job.html
John McHale’s week off watching his
daughter play in the  U.S. Open  is more stressful than his job as
a finance director.  McHale, who works in the Rutherford, New Jersey, office of
Geneva-based industrial inspection company  SGS SA (SGSN) , sweated it
out at the National Tennis Center in  New York  yesterday as his
19-year-old daughter Christina upset No. 8 seed Marion Bartoli.  “I can handle my own stuff much easier than I can handle
watching my daughter out there,” McHale, 53, said in an
interview. “It’s tough to control my emotions.”  Christina was one of two young American women to defeat
seeded players yesterday at the final Grand Slam tennis
tournament of the year. She was joined in the third round by
Irina Falconi, who beat No. 14 Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia.  McHale, ranked 55th by the WTA tour, defeated Bartoli of
France 7-6 (7-2), 6-2 to set up a meeting with 25th-seeded Maria Kirilenko of  Russia . It was McHale’s second win against a top-10
player in two weeks, following her defeat of No. 1  Caroline Wozniacki  at the Western & Southern Open in Cincinnati.  “She just came out and played, I thought, the perfect
match,” Bartoli told reporters. “She was very involved and she
was moving so well. I needed to hit five or six winners to get
one point.”  Falconi, 21, who was born in  Ecuador  and grew up playing on
the public courts at Inwood Hill Park in northern  Manhattan ,
celebrated her 2-6, 6-3, 7-5 win by dancing on Arthur Ashe
Stadium court with an American flag.  U.S. Comeback  Falconi, ranked 79th in the world, came back from 3-0 down
to win the third set.  American teenagers Madison Keys and CoCo Vandeweghe were
losers yesterday. Keys, at 16 the youngest player in the women’s
draw, led by a set against No. 27 Lucie Safarova of the  Czech
Republic  before falling 3-6, 7-5, 6-4. Vandeweghe, 19, lost in
straight sets to No. 9 Samantha Stosur of  Australia .  Keys, ranked 455th on the WTA Tour, made 55 unforced errors
with nine double faults, losing the match in the 10,103-seat
Louis Armstrong Stadium while winning six more points than
Safarova.  “That was the biggest stadium I’ve played in,” Keys said
in a news conference. “It definitely got pretty full towards
the end and it was great. The crowd was with me and I think I
played pretty well.”  As McHale wrapped up her win on the Grandstand court with
an ace, another American woman was announcing her withdrawal.
Two-time champion Venus Williams, 31, pulled out of the Open
because of an autoimmune condition that has sapped her strength.  New Face  One of the young players may take over as the face of
American women’s tennis in the coming years. McHale and Keys
both said it has been good to have a group of players growing up
together.  “There’s a lot of young American players right now that
are all pushing each other to do better,” McHale, who lives in
Englewood Cliffs,  New Jersey , and trains at the National Tennis
Center, said in a news conference.  McHale lived in  Hong Kong  for five years when her father
worked there for SGS, which provides industrial inspection,
analysis, testing and verification services on products
including food and petroleum. McHale said his division focuses
on toys, textiles and  consumer goods .  His other daughter, Lauren, 21, was the 2009 Ivy League
Rookie of the Year as a freshman tennis player at  Princeton
University . After a knee injury, she sat out her sophomore year
and then transferred to the University of  North Carolina .  Lauren plans to skip school tomorrow and come to New York
to see Christina’s next match. John McHale, who took business
calls on his cell phone before and after his daughter’s match,
will be there, too.  If Christina continues to win, she could play a
quarterfinal match on Sept. 6, the day John is supposed to
return to work. What would he do?  “That’s going to be a tough one,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster at the National Tennis Center at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center at   mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  