-- 
Chavez Says Venezuela to Move Against Land Holdings of Ireland’s Smurfit

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-09-01T19:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/chavez-says-venezuela-to-move-against-smurfit-kappa-tree-farms.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
ordered the removal of Irish cardboard maker  Smurfit Kappa Group
Plc (SKG)  from all its farm land in an agricultural state as he
deepens a push to seize large land holdings from private owners.  “We need to remove Smurfit from every square meter in
Portuguesa,” Chavez said during a phone conversation with his
agriculture minister broadcast on state television. “How long
will they damage the land with those trees that dry out our
rivers? We’re going to act faster, that’s an order I’m giving.”  Agriculture Minister Juan Carlos Loyo said Smurfit still
operates on about 12,000 hectares (29,640 acres) of land between
the central plains states of Portuguesa and Lara. Chavez seized
1,500 hectares of land from the Dublin-based paper products
company in 2009. Smurfit’s eucalyptus plantations have dried
sources of water for irrigation in Portuguesa that should be
used to grow vegetables, Chavez said.  The president didn’t specify whether the government is
looking to seize all of Smurfit’s land holdings in  Venezuela  or
some plots dedicated to tree farming.  Chavez, who is receiving chemotherapy treatment in a
Caracas military hospital after having a cancerous tumor removed
in Cuba in June, continues to exercise his presidential duties
and has called on followers to deepen his socialist revolution
ahead of elections next year. Chavez also seized a cattle ranch
from the U.K.-based Vestey Group Ltd.  Smurfit’s shares fell 0.1 percent to 5.51 euros in Dublin
after falling 4 percent in earlier trading. In the year to date,
the shares are down 24.5 percent.  ‘Precautionary Measures’  The government has turned seized farm land over to
cooperatives of community farmers in what Chavez says is social
justice while critics of his policies say  food production  has
waned amid the land grabs.  The Irish company said in its second-quarter earnings
report that it began talks with the Venezuelan government in
July regarding a plot of land.  “Venezuelan authorities have issued precautionary measures
over a further 7,253 hectares of the Group’s forestry land, with
a view to acquiring it and converting its use to food production
and related activities,” the filing said. “Management are in
discussion with the authorities.”  ‘Just the Forests’  Smurfit CEO Gary McGann said in a November teleconference
that the risk of nationalization had heightened after Chavez
lost a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly and
following the seizures of a unit of glass bottle maker Owens-
Illinois Inc. and a fertilizer plant partly owned by Koch
Industries Inc.  The move comes as no surprise considering the government
had already said it might seize more of Smurfit Kappa’s land in
Venezuela, Robert Eason, an analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in
Dublin, said in a note to clients.  “This event has been well flagged by the company’s
management so it’s not a big issue,” Eason said in a telephone
interview from Dublin. “The important thing is that Chavez is
not looking to get his hands on all of the production assets,
just the forests.” He has a buy recommendation on the stock.  Venezuela represented about 7 percent of Smurfit Kappa’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
and 4 percent of total assets, Eason said in a report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 Cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  