-- 
China to Curb Home Prices in Small Cities, Wen Writes

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T06:02:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/china-to-curb-home-prices-in-small-cities-wen-writes-correct-.html
(Corrects to say SouFun’s home price data in sixth
paragraph is a month-on-month figure.)  China ’s measures to control its
 property market  are at a critical stage and the nation needs to
focus efforts on curbing housing price gains in second- and
third-tier cities, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an essay.  “We must unswervingly curb irrational housing demand,
continue to strictly implement differential housing loans, tax
policies and restriction on purchases,” Wen wrote in Qiushi
magazine, a publication of the ruling Communist Party.  China has expanded its property control measures this year,
raising down-payments requirements and  mortgage rates  to ease
gains in  home prices . The government said last month it will
rein in residential prices in smaller cities.  “At the same time, we need to focus on suppressing overly
rapid price gains in second- and third-tier cities, to promote a
return to reasonable  house prices ,” Wen said in the  article ,
which was posted in full on the magazine’s website today.  Home prices in the country remained “basically unchanged”
in August from the previous month,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN)  said in
an e-mailed statement today. Residential prices in 56 cities
rose from July, based on 100 locations tracked by SouFun, with
average home prices nationwide climbing to 8,880 yuan ($1,392) a
square meter (10.76 square feet), the nation’s biggest real-
estate website owner said.  Xiamen, Fuzhou  Residential prices in August advanced 0.07 percent from
July, SouFun said, the smallest increase in more than a year.
The southeastern city of Xiamen in  Fujian province  posted the
biggest gain of 2.4 percent from July, while provincial capital
Fuzhou, fell the most by 1.9 percent, SouFun said. Shanghai
dropped 0.1 percent, while prices in Beijing rose 0.3 percent.  China “must not slacken” on its plan to build 10 million
units of affordable housing, Wen said in the article, adding the
government will increase monitoring of those cities that fall
behind in construction of these cheaper homes.  A gauge tracking property shares on the  Shanghai  Composite
Index was little changed at the break.  The government’s report on new and existing home prices for
August is due on Sept. 18.  China will expand its efforts to curb price gains in
smaller cities after limiting home purchases in Beijing and
Shanghai, according to a July 14 summary of a State Council
meeting chaired by Wen. The government said so-called second and
third-tier cities which have seen excessive price gains should
restrict the number of homes each family is allowed to buy,
according to the  State Council  or cabinet.  --Daryl Loo, Bonnie Cao. Editors: Andreea Papuc, Linus Chua  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7540 or
 dloo7@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  