-- 
China Swaps Fall on Speculation PBOC to Avoid Further Tightening

-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 
2011-09-01T08:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/china-swaps-fall-on-speculation-pboc-to-avoid-further-tightening.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps fell,
snapping a five-day advance, on speculation policy makers will
refrain from further monetary tightening as the economy cools.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index, a gauge of manufacturing,
was 50.9 in August, the China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said in a statement today, with readings above 50
signaling expansion. That missed the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg survey for 51. The People’s Bank of
China may cut reserve-requirement ratios for small- and medium-
sized banks to support lending to smaller companies, the
Economic Observer reported today, citing unidentified analysts.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, declined 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 4.32 percent as of 4:19 p.m. in  Shanghai .
The rate rose for a fifth month in August, touching a record
4.52 percent this week.  “The PMI came in slightly weaker than expected and the
expected seasonal rebound did not really happen,” said Ju Wang,
a Singapore-based fixed-income strategist at  Barclays Capital .
“Our view is that tightening has seen the peak.”  The central bank raised its benchmark  interest rates  five
times in the past year and boosted lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios on nine occasions. Swaps advanced this week after policy
makers broadened the scope of  reserve requirements  to include
customers’ margin deposits. The monetary authority injected
funds into the financial markets for a sixth straight week,
adding a net 16 billion yuan ($2.5 billion) in the past week.  The seven-day repo rate, a gauge of funding availability in
the financial system, fell 19 basis points to 4.75 percent in
Shanghai, according to a weighted average compiled by the
National Interbank Funding Center.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  