-- 
China Steel Association to Publish Iron Ore Index From Oct. 1

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T08:30:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/china-steel-association-to-publish-iron-ore-index-from-oct-1.html
The  China  Iron and Steel Association
will start publishing a weekly  iron ore  index on Oct. 1 as
commodity-pricing services compete to have a bigger say over
pricing of the raw material used in steelmaking.  “We are able to collect data from all domestic mines and
35 ports nationwide,”  Luo Bingsheng , the deputy party secretary
of the association, said in an interview in Jinan today. The
group, known as  CISA , represents China’s 77 biggest mills.  Quarterly iron ore prices are typically based on figures
derived by deducting freight costs from the three-month average
of daily iron ore indexes compiled by Platts, the Steel Index
Ltd. and  Metal Bulletin  with a one-month lag period. Steelmakers,
including Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s biggest public-
traded producer of the alloy, typically use Platts.  “It isn’t mandatory for steelmakers to replace other price
indicators,” Luo said. “But an index launched by the steel
association will be well received by its members.”  The association’s index, which will consist of domestic and
import prices, will “more truthfully reflect China’s market
reality” and “guide orderly imports,” Vice Chairman Zhang
Changfu said on Aug. 2.  Vale SA (VALE3) , Rio Tinto Group and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
three-largest iron ore producers, last year abandoned a 40-year
custom of annual pricing in favor of quarterly agreements as
spot ore prices surged. China is the largest global buyer of
iron ore.  Prices have almost tripled since November 2008, when the
data became available on the Steel Index. The prices, reaching a
record $191.90 a metric ton in February, gained 0.6 percent to
$179.9 as of yesterday.  Some Chinese media and research companies, including the
official Xinhua News Agency, China Business News, Umetal.com and
Mysteel.com, have also started publishing their own iron ore
price indexes.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 