-- 
Chinese Manufacturing Index Near 29-Month Low Signals Limits on Tightening

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T04:16:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/china-manufacturing-index-rises-to-50-9-economists-estimated-gain-to-51.html
A Chinese manufacturing index stayed
near the borderline between expansion and contraction in August,
signaling limits for more monetary tightening.  The Purchasing Managers’ Index was at 50.9, from the 29-
month low of 50.7 in July, the  China Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing  said in a statement today. A separate measure
released by HSBC Holdings Plc contracted for the second month.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  signaled yesterday that a faltering
global recovery and turbulence in financial markets have yet to
convince the government to switch from a focus on taming
inflation. In the latest tightening, the central bank will
expand banks’ reserve requirements, starting from Sept. 5.  “The economy is heading towards a soft landing but
uncertainties are looming, which means policy makers may not
want to tighten monetary policy further,” said Lu Ting, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. “Fiscal
policy may be more proactive to support areas such as small and
medium-sized enterprises.”  Stocks in China fell, erasing gains made after the data
were released. The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index was 0.2
percent lower at 2,562.52 at the 11:30 a.m. local-time break.
 China ’s interest-rate swaps fell, snapping a five-day advance,
on speculation policy makers will refrain from more monetary
steps to tame inflation.  The manufacturing index from the logistics federation is
based on a survey of purchasing managers in more than 820
companies in 20 industries. The August reading compared with the
median estimate of 51 in a Bloomberg News survey of 14
economists. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  ‘Moderate’ Slowdown  An output index rose for the first time in five months
while a measure of new orders expanded at the same pace as in
July, the federation said.  The purchasing managers’ index released by HSBC and Markit
Economics, based on a survey of more than 400 companies, was
49.9 in August compared with 49.3 the previous month, the
companies said in an e-mailed statement today. July’s reading
was the lowest since March 2009.  “These data confirm our view that China will only see
growth moderation in the coming months, rather than a hard
landing,”  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at HSBC in Hong
Kong, said in the statement.  The gauge of export orders in the federation’s index
contracted for the first time in more than two years, dropping
to the lowest since March 2009, while the same measure in the
HSBC index was below 50 for the fourth month.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  “Exports are facing challenges,” the National Bureau of
Statistics said in a  commentary  on the PMI posted on its website.
“The increase in commodity prices, the sovereign-debt crisis in
developed countries, sluggish external demand and other
uncertain elements have led to a drop in manufacturers’ overseas
orders.”  Credit Suisse AG economists today cut their growth
estimates for Asian economies including China, saying the region
is “highly susceptible” to developments in the U.S. and  Europe .
The Zurich-based lender now expects China to expand 8.6 percent
this year and 8.2 percent in 2012, compared with previous
forecasts of 8.7 percent and 8.5 percent.  The bank joins UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG
in reducing their estimates for China’s growth last month.  Five increases in  interest rates  since October, limits on
home purchases and lending curbs that included raising banks’
reserve requirements to a record are slowing domestic demand in
Asia’s fastest-growing economy.  ‘Reasonable’ Slowdown  Angang Steel Co., the largest Hong Kong-traded Chinese
steelmaker by market value, said last week first-half profit
tumbled 91 percent because of slowing demand from automakers and
higher raw material costs. Shares in Geely Automobile Holdings
Co., whose parent owns Volvo Cars, fell to their lowest in
almost two years in  Hong Kong  trading on Aug. 22 after saying
demand for vehicles in China is showing signs of slowing.  The slowdown in the economy is “reasonable” and within
government expectations, according an article Premier Wen wrote
in Qiushi, the magazine of the ruling Communist Party.  “Chinese growth is now mainly driven by China’s own
domestic demand, rising consumption and strong investment,” Liu Li-gang, head of China research at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group Ltd., said in an interview on Bloomberg Television
today.  The economy “remains quite resilient amid the global
financial turmoil.”  The measure of input prices in the federation’s index
climbed for the first time in six months in August, indicating
cost pressures on companies continue to rise,  Zhang Liqun , a
senior researcher at the State Council’s Development Research
Center, said in the CFLP statement.  Difficult Balance  Wen yesterday reiterated the government’s determination to
cap gains in consumer prices, saying the factors driving
inflation haven’t been “fundamentally eliminated.”  “Policy makers are still facing the difficult balance
between growth and inflation,” said Shen Jianguang, chief
economist for Greater China at Mizuho Securities  Asia  Ltd.
Today’s data “indicates a continuing slowdown in the economy
with export orders pretty depressed while at the same time
inflationary pressure is still rising, so policy makers have no
room to loosen policy.”  In the latest sign of tightening by the central bank,
lenders will have to include margin deposits in calculations of
their reserve requirements starting Sept. 5, according to a
People’s Bank of China document obtained by Bloomberg News on
Aug. 30. The move is intended to deal with the rapid growth in
banks’ off-balance sheet lending that’s complicating the central
bank’s attempts to control liquidity, according to UBS’ Hong
Kong-based economist  Wang Tao .  Banks will have to set aside a total of almost 900 billion
yuan over the next six months to comply with the central bank’s
order, equivalent to 2.5 times the amount that would be required
by a 50 basis-point increase in the overall reserve requirement,
Wang said. The ratio now stands at 21.5 percent for the biggest
banks.  --Li Yanping, Zheng Lifei. With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore , Sophie Leung in Hong Kong, Huang Zhe in Beijing.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7568 or
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  