-- 
CIC May Set Up New Overseas Investment Company, CBN Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T07:02:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/cic-may-set-up-new-overseas-investment-company-cbn-says.html
China  Investment Corp., the nation’s
sovereign wealth fund, may set up a new company focused on
overseas investment, China Business News reported today, without
saying where it got the information.  CIC may change to a holding company containing the new
entity and Central Huijin Investment Co., according to the
Shanghai-based newspaper. The People’s Bank of China may inject
about $100 billion into the new company, according to the report.  The fund, which managed $409.6 billion as of the end of
2010, posted an 11.7 percent return on its overseas investments
last year as the recovery in the global economy and markets
improved yields. Net income rose 24 percent to $51.6 billion,
the Beijing-based fund said in its annual report on July 26.  China should expand the scale of its  sovereign wealth funds 
to maintain the value of the country’s foreign exchange reserves
and improve returns, Zhang Monan, an economics researcher at the
State Information Center, wrote in a commentary in the  China
Daily  last month. Fund investment should be shifted to
“industrial investment” and away from financial holdings in a
bid to acquire more overseas resources, Zhang wrote.  Calls to CIC’s press office weren’t immediately answered.  Deploying Cash  Chairman  Lou Jiwei  deployed almost all the fund’s cash last
year to boost returns as an improving world economy prompted a
10 percent gain in the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index. New allocations totaled
$35.7 billion, as the fund bolstered holdings in infrastructure,
real estate and private-equity assets and increased investments
in emerging markets, according to the report.  The sovereign fund planned to move Managing Director
Winston Ma to Canada to bolster investment bids for natural
resources assets, a company official with direct knowledge of
the matter said in May. Ma, part of the special investments
department at CIC, was appointed deputy head of the fund’s only
office outside the Greater China region that month, according to
the executive, who declined to be identified as the information
is confidential.  CIC major investments included C$817 million ($859 million)
in a new oil-sands venture with  Canada ’s Penn West Energy Trust
in May 2010, giving CIC a stake in the world’s largest crude
deposits outside  Saudi Arabia . Total assets rose 23 percent last
year, according to the fund, also known as CIC.  The fund will increase its investments in  Latin America  and
sees opportunities in  Africa , Jin Liqun, chairman of CIC’s board
of supervisors, said at a conference in Beijing in March.  Looking Overseas  CIC will fund a bid by JC Flowers & Co. for Northern Rock
Plc, the  Sunday Times reported  on Aug. 14, without saying where
it got the information. CIC set up a $4 billion fund with
Flowers to buy distressed U.S. financial companies after the
credit crisis, the newspaper said.  The fund said Aug. 10 it plans to buy a 30 percent stake in
GDF Suez SA’s oil gas production and exploration subsidiary for
$3.2 billion, and it may also purchase a stake in GDF’s
liquefied natural gas dock in  Trinidad and Tobago  for $850
million.  The fund was set up in 2007 with $200 billion in initial
capital. It is the world’s fifth-biggest country fund, according
to the  Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  