-- 
Clinton Stresses Ongoing International Role as Libya Stabilizes

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-01T17:02:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/clinton-stresses-ongoing-international-role-as-libya-stabilizes.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said international support for Libya must include a
continued NATO military campaign for “as long as civilians
remain under threat of attack.”  Clinton spoke today at a Paris meeting of the “Friends of
the New Libya,’” the group formerly known as the Libya Contact
Group. In remarks to other members, she said the  United Nations 
should begin lifting sanctions against Libya and urged allies to
provide Libya’s National Transition Council with financial
support.  She announced that the U.S. has so far released more than
$700 million from a total $1.5 billion in assets that have been
unfrozen to help the TNC pay for fuel and civilian operational
costs and salaries. Clinton also said  Libya ’s new leaders have a
responsibility to form an inclusive democracy and avoid
reprisals and violent extremism.  “Six months ago, Libyans risked everything to stand up to
a dictator and demand a better future,” Clinton said. “While
the struggle is not over, today that future beckons.”  She told leaders in Paris that the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization’s military campaign “must” provide air cover for
National Transition Council fighters.  As the new leaders consolidate power, Clinton said the U.S.
and others “will support their efforts to demobilize and
integrate fighters into a single security force.”  Calls on Africa  Clinton called on more countries to recognize the NTC as
the legitimate leaders of Libya, pointedly calling for African
support. Until Aug. 29, the  African Union  advocated an “all-
inclusive” governing body. “Eighteen African nations have
recognized the TNC,” Clinton said. “We urge all nations and
international organizations to follow their example.”  Of the $700 million the U.S. has released, $300 million of
it will be sent today to the  oil companies  to whom Libya owes
money. The remaining $400 million will be put into a temporary
fund for the NTC to cover operating and humanitarian costs.  Clinton said the U.S. would soon remove remaining barriers
for the NTC to access remaining frozen Libyan assets. “We are
working to deliver the remaining funds, and just as important,
we are supporting the TNC’s efforts to ensure that they are
disbursed in a transparent, accountable manner,” Clinton said.  Accountability and transparency are essential, she said.
“It must be clear to Libyans and to the world that this money
is being used to serve the Libyan people,” Clinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Paris at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  