-- 
Clooney Limits His Presidential Ambitions to Big Screen: Review

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-09-01T00:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/clooney-limits-presidential-ambitions-to-cinema-as-venice-festival-opens.html
Politics is a stinky business that
 George Clooney  is happy to leave to others -- except in the
cinema.  The 50-year-old star opened the  Venice Film Festival 
yesterday with a political thriller he directed. “The Ides of
March” is about a young campaign spokesman who loses faith in
the candidate he’s paid to back: a certain Governor Mike Morris,
played by Clooney himself.  At a mobbed Venice news conference, the actor-director --
in a steel-gray summer suit, with teeth bright enough for a
toothpaste ad -- batted away questions about his own
presidential ambitions.  “There’s a guy in office right now who’s smarter than
almost anybody you know, nicer, and who has more values than
almost anybody you know,” he said of U.S. President  Barack Obama . “And he’s having an almost impossible time governing.
Why would anybody volunteer for that job?”  “I’m perfectly comfortable not having to be the guy that,
if I make a mistake, it costs a couple hundred thousand people
their lives,” he said.  While the movie is not meant to be about anyone in
particular, echoes of real life run through it. Beau Willimon,
the writer of the play it’s based on (“Farragut North”),
served on Howard Dean’s 2003-2004 campaign. Clooney’s character
is a Democratic governor who employs female interns.  Washington Mudslinging  Clooney and co-writer Grant Heslov were busy adapting the
play in 2008 when life overtook art: The euphoria that followed
Obama’s election made it the wrong time to show the flip side of
presidential politics. The project was revived a year later, as
the Washington mood music changed and the mudslinging resumed.  On screen, Clooney is, for once, not the main attraction.
He’s the backdrop to a political coming-of-age tale that gets
off to a somewhat predictable start, with many of the better
lines sampled in the trailer.  Preppy-looking Stephen Meyers (Ryan Gosling) will do
anything to help Governor Morris win the Ohio primary and clinch
the Democratic nomination. Even when he’s busy between the
sheets, he keeps an eye on the plasma screen. He lets rumors
seep out about the adversary’s dodgy diamond investments,
knowing they could be utterly baseless.  His blind faith is an excuse for some lazy dialogue. “You
really have drunk the Kool-Aid,” says a scoop-seeking New York
Times reporter played by Marisa Tomei. “I have drunk it, and
it’s delicious,” comes the lame reply.  When young Stephen is courted by the other side, the plot
begins to feel about as crafty as a cartoon strip. Then comes a
below-the-belt twist in the tale that makes Stephen’s fate far
more gripping than Morris’s electoral fortunes.  Face of Politics  Gosling is excellent in the title role. The transition from
idealism to sour grapes can practically be graphed on his face.
He makes it all look real.  Clooney dexterously directs the rest of the cast, too: from
the seasoned Philip Seymour Hoffman, who plays Morris’s paunchy
campaign manager; to his insidious opposite number, played by
Paul Giamatti; to the young Evan Rachel Wood, who delivers a
memorable performance as the not-so-dumb blond intern.  “The Ides of March” (a reference to the day  Julius Caesar 
is assassinated in  William Shakespeare ’s play) falls well short
of Clooney’s 2005 “Good Night, and Good Luck,” a much subtler
directorial effort shot in black and white. This time, the
bursts of weak dialogue are coupled with some gauche set designs
-- including a wobbly private plane interior that looks very
obviously simulated.  In the end, though, the actors and the storytelling save
the day, allowing Clooney to keep at the career he loves, and
steer well clear of politics.  Rating: ***.  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Farah Nayeri in  Venice  on 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 