-- 
Comcast’s NBC Universal Takeover Approved With Continuing Court Oversight

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/comcast-takeover-of-nbc-universal-merger-wins-approval-from-federal-judge.html
Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S.
cable company, won a judge’s approval for its acquisition of  NBC
Universal  with conditions that will maintain court oversight of
the deal for two more years.  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon in Washington ruled
yesterday that the Justice Department and the combined company
must report on arbitration actions initiated by online video
distributors under the final judgment. The distributers feared
they would lose access to NBC’s content because of the
acquisition.  “Since neither the court nor the parties has a crystal
ball to forecast” the effectiveness of the final judgment, the
additional steps are necessary to protect the public interest,
Leon wrote.  Comcast’s proposed acquisition of NBC Universal won
approval Jan. 18 from U.S. regulators under an agreement with
the Federal Communications Commission and the  Justice
Department . Its terms, which needed court approval, imposed
conditions designed to protect the emerging online-video market.  Comcast is “pleased the court approved the consent
decree,”  Sena Fitzmaurice , a spokeswoman for the Philadelphia-
based company, said in an e-mail.  Jessica Smith, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said in an
e-mail that the department also was pleased Leon ruled the
settlement “to be in the public interest.”  Leon said at a July 27 hearing he was concerned that an
arbitration process to be overseen by the department wouldn’t
allow appeals. Yesterday, he ordered department lawyers to
report back on how many online video distributors sought
permission to arbitrate under the final judgment and how many
were refused.  ‘Less Costly Alternative’  The process, which would use an outside, neutral
arbitrator, provides a “speedier and less costly alternative,”
the Justice Department said in a court filing last month. The
online video distributors would still have the option of
arbitration overseen by the FCC, whose decisions can be
appealed, according to the filing.  Leon also ordered the Justice Department to keep track of
how many companies denied arbitration under the final judgment
turned to the FCC. He said he’d hold annual hearings on the
reports for a least two more years. The final judgment is
scheduled to expire in seven years.  The case is U.S. v. Comcast, 11-cv-00106, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  