-- 
Commodities Decline as Speculation of Slower Growth Curbs Materials Demand

-- B y   Y i n g   D i a o   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-09-01T18:33:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/commodities-decline-on-speculation-slower-economic-growth-will-curb-demand.html
Commodities slumped, paced by wheat
and zinc, on speculation that slowing manufacturing will curb
demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of 24 commodities fell 0.5
percent to 671.02 at 2:31 p.m. New York time after dropping as
much 0.8 percent. Zinc retreated as much as 2.9 percent in
 London , and wheat fell the most in two months on signs that
demand for U.S. supplies is slowing. The GSCI slumped below its
200-day moving average, signaling further declines.  Euro-area manufacturing contracted more than initially
estimated in August while Chinese manufacturing growth stayed
near a 29-month low, purchasing managers’ indexes showed.
Similar gauges for  Sweden , the U.K.,  South Korea  and Taiwan all
indicated contraction.  “The economic outlook is still shaky, and that’s been
driving the industrial metals and the energy sector lower,”
Michael Banks, a London-based analyst at Hermes Commodities,
which manages $1.9 billion of assets, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s something we see continuing for the next one
to three months.”  In August, the GSCI index dropped 1.7 percent, the third
decline in four months. A worsening global-growth outlook
reduced investor demand for raw materials as alternative assets.
Bonds beat stocks and commodities last month after  Standard &
Poor’s  decision to strip the U.S. government of its AAA credit
rating roiled global markets.  Trimmed Losses  The index trimmed losses after a report showed U.S.
manufacturing unexpectedly expanded, easing concern that the
world’s largest economy is headed for another recession. The
 Institute for Supply Management  said its factory index was at
50.6 last month, topping analyst estimates’ of 48.5. Figures
greater than 50 signal expansion.  “In the last three weeks of this recession watch,
absolutely nothing has happened to the real economy,”  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in New York, said in an e-mail. “No recession yet.”  Copper futures for December delivery declined 4.4 cents, or
1 percent, to settle at $4.1605 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York , the biggest loss for a most-active contract since
Aug. 18.  Wheat futures for December delivery fell 33.5 cents, or 4.2
percent, to $7.58 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 1:25
p.m. A close at that price would be the biggest drop since June
30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Diao Ying in London at 
 dying6@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  