-- 
Construction Spending in U.S. Unexpectedly Decreased in July

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-in-july.html
Construction spending in the U.S.
unexpectedly fell in July by the most in six months as government
outlays dropped to the lowest level in more than four years and
home-improvement projects slumped.  The 1.3 percent decrease was the biggest since January and
followed a revised 1.6 percent gain in June that was eight times
larger than previously reported, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median projection in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists called for a 0.2 percent increase.  Even lower  interest rates  may not be enough to help sustain
a rebound in commercial projects and business investment, one of
the few bright spots in the world’s largest economy. Declines in
 government spending  and a stalled housing market also will weigh
on the industry.  “Public construction is likely to have contracted as state
and local governments reduced spending and federal stimulus funds
dried up,”  Aaron Smith , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said before the report. “The
weakness in the public market is likely to persist.”  Estimates of the 48 economists surveyed ranged from a
decrease of 0.4 percent to a gain of 1 percent. The Commerce
Department revised the June data from a previously reported 0.2
percent gain.  The May reading was also revised up to show a 2.5 percent
jump rather than the 0.3 percent gain previously estimated,
indicating construction spending will be boosted when new data on
second-quarter gross domestic product is released at the end of
the month. The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1 percent
annual pace from April through June after growing at a 0.4
percent rate in the first three months of the year.  12-Month Change  Construction spending rose 0.1 percent in the 12 months
ended in July, today’s report showed.  Spending on public construction dropped 2.1 percent in July
from the prior month, the biggest decrease so far this year, as
state and local government projects declined 1.9 percent. Federal
construction spending fell 3.6 percent. Outlays totaled $275
billion, the lowest level since December 2006.  Private construction spending decreased 0.9 percent in July,
today’s report showed. Homebuilding outlays fell 1.4 percent,
reflecting a 2.9 percent drop in spending on home improvements,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on the data.
Construction of single-family homes was little changed, while
spending on multifamily units climbed 1.4 percent.  Housing starts in the U.S. slid 1.5 percent in July, the
Commerce Department reported Aug. 16. Building permits, a sign of
future construction, also decreased.  Wide-Ranging Implications  “The low level of construction has implications not only
for builders but for providers of a wide range of goods and
services related to housing and homebuilding,” Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a speech last week.  Falling  home prices  are hurting consumer confidence and
demand for real estate. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property
values in 20 cities fell 4.5 percent in June from a year earlier,
the group reported on Aug. 30.  Private non-residential projects decreased 0.4 percent. A 6
percent drop in spending on factories accounted for the overall
decrease, the report showed.  Some producers of construction materials and builders may
gain from rebuilding efforts after tropical storm Irene hit the
East Coast of the U.S. last month. PulteGroup Inc., the nation’s
biggest homebuilder, and  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the world’s second-largest
aluminum producer, both rose after the storm damaged properties
from  North Carolina  to  Maine .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  