-- 
Copper Prices Decline Most in Two Weeks After Chinese Exports Orders Slump

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-09-01T18:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/copper-declines-for-first-session-in-seven-on-concern-china-growth-slowing.html
Copper fell the most in two weeks
after export orders slid for the first time in two years in
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal.  A gauge of orders from overseas in the Purchasing Managers’
Index for August dropped to the lowest level March 2009, data
from the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing showed
today. Manufacturing slumped in Europe and Asia, adding to signs
of slowing global growth.  Lower export orders are “almost certainly a reflection of
the current soft patch in the global economy,” Nic Brown, the
London-based head of commodities research at Natixis Commodity
Markets Ltd., said in a telephone interview today.  Copper futures for December delivery declined 4.4 cents, or
1 percent, to close at $4.1605 a pound at 1 p.m. on the Comex in
 New York , the biggest loss for a most-active contract since Aug.
18.  The metal has dropped 6.4 percent this year as China moved
to curb inflation with higher  interest rates  and as debt woes
escalated in Europe and the U.S., the second-largest user.  Euro-area manufacturing contracted in August more than
initially estimated while Chinese manufacturing growth stayed
near a 29-month low, separate reports showed. Similar gauges for
Sweden, the U.K.,  South Korea  and Taiwan all indicated
contraction.  “Today’s batch of numbers, particularly out of Asia and
Europe, show that the global economy is still mired in a soft
patch, hardly a scenario for robust metal-price appreciation
over the short term,”  Edward Meir , a senior analyst at MF
Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,  Connecticut , said in a report.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery fell $130, or 1.4 percent, to $9,145 a metric ton
($4.15 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, nickel, zinc and tin also dropped in
London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  