-- 
Corn, Wheat Futures Decline on Speculation Demand for U.S. Crops May Slow

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-09-01T06:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/corn-wheat-futures-decline-on-speculation-demand-for-u-s-crops-may-slow.html
Corn declined on speculation that
demand for the U.S. crop may slow after futures had their
biggest monthly gain this year in August, making the grain less
competitive than exports from other countries.  December-delivery corn slipped 0.4 percent to $7.6425 a
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 2:36 p.m. Singapore time,
after gaining 15 percent last month.  Export sales of corn and wheat from the U.S. probably fell
in the week ended Aug. 25 from a year earlier, according to a
Bloomberg News survey. Corn and soybean crops in the Midwest,
the largest U.S. growing region, “will continue to suffer” as
the driest areas have a “fairly limited” chance of significant
rain over the next week, Telvent DTN Inc. said in a forecast
yesterday.  “It is easier to substitute Argentine and Brazilian corn
exports for U.S. exports,” MF Global Inc. wrote in a report e-
mailed today. “As long as the U.S. weather pattern remains dry,
it could be supportive” to corn and soybean prices, it said.  Investors may also be locking in gains from last month’s
rally ahead of the Labor Day holiday weekend in the U.S., MF
Global said. Trading will halt on Sept. 5 because of the public
holiday.  Soybeans for November delivery fell 0.5 percent to $14.4975
a bushel, after rising 7.4 percent in August. Wheat for December
delivery declined 1 percent to $7.84 a bushel, after an 11
percent gain last month.  Rough rice for November delivery was unchanged at $17.945
per 100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade, erasing a 0.6
percent loss earlier.  The export price in  Thailand , the world’s largest rice
shipper, may climb to more than $700 per metric ton from $596 on
Aug. 31 under a government plan to buy the milled grain from
farmers at above market prices, Secretary for Commerce Yanyong
Phuangrach said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  