-- 
Costco’s Jelinek to Replace Co-Founder Sinegal as CEO

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-09-01T21:22:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/costco-coo-jelinek-named-to-succeed-co-founder-sinegal-as-chief-in-january.html
Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) , the largest
U.S. warehouse-club chain, appointed Chief Operating Officer
Craig Jelinek to succeed Chief Executive Officer Jim Sinegal,
who will step down on Jan. 1 after more than 20 years.  Jelinek has been at Costco for almost 28 years, the
Issaquah, Washington-based company said yesterday in a
statement. He started in 1984 as a manager of one of the
company’s warehouses, and went on to serve in several management
positions, including head of merchandising.  Sinegal, 75, founded Costco Wholesale in 1983 with Chairman
Jeffrey Brotman and took over as CEO five years later, after a
merger with competitor Price Club. Under Sinegal and Jelinek,
59, Costco’s stock gained 10 percent this year, more than double
the gain of the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer Staples Index.  “Jelinek has seriously big, big shoes to fill,”  Brian Sozzi , an equities analyst for Wall Street Strategies Inc. in
New York, said yesterday in an e-mail. “I would compare it to
the torch being passed to  Lou Gehrig  from  Babe Ruth . This is a
man who pioneered how we consume goods and services on a daily
basis, bringing an entirely new retail model to life.”  Costco rose 94 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $79.48 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The S&P 500
Consumer Staples Index has gained 4.5 percent this year.  E-Commerce, Asia  The retailer will focus on improving its e-commerce
shopping site and expansion in Asia, Jelinek said today in a
telephone interview. The company has 24 of its 592 stores in
 Asia  with none in  China . The company has the potential to reach
1,000 total stores in the next 10 years, he said.  “We want to continue to figure out how to better reach our
customers,” Jelinek said.  Sinegal, who will seek re-election to Costco’s board in
January, will serve as an adviser through January 2013. Jelinek
will also keep the title of president when he becomes CEO.  “Costco has a very strong culture and a deep bench of
management talent,” Sinegal said in the statement. “I have
total confidence in Craig’s ability to handle his new
responsibilities.”  Costco yesterday also reported fourth-quarter revenue of
$27.6 billion, which met the average estimate from analysts
polled by Bloomberg. Same-store sales, excluding fuel, in August
rose 6 percent, the company said. That’s more than a 4.9 percent
increase estimated by Retail Metrics Inc., a Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based researcher.  The effect of Hurricane Irene was “slightly negative” to
sales in August as the retailer closed warehouses on the east
coast, the company said in a recorded call yesterday.  The retailer has struggled this year with rising costs for
delivery fuel and products including coffee and cheese. The
company wrote down inflation-related costs of $49 million in the
third quarter. Excluding fuel, the company still boosted sales
as shoppers and small businesses seek discounted groceries and
televisions amid persistent joblessness.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  