-- 
Credit-Default Swaps Paying the Most to Bonds Since 2009: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-09-02T01:22:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/credit-default-swaps-paying-the-most-to-bonds-since-2009-australia-credit.html
Concerns about the global economy
slowing have infected  Australia ’s credit markets, driving price
discrepancies between bonds and derivatives to the widest since
March 2009.  The cost of credit-default swaps climbed faster than
relative yields on corporate notes last month as Europe’s debt
crisis and the U.S. credit rating downgrade spurred both gauges
of investor sentiment to deteriorate. The Markit iTraxx
Australia index of swaps on 25 companies surged 38 basis points
to 157, more than double the increase in the U.S., creating a
so-called positive basis, where the return from selling the
contracts is more than the yield premium from buying the notes.  “Over August, liquidity was down, macro-economic concerns
were up, and that’s created significant dislocation across
credit markets,” said Chris Viol, a Sydney-based credit analyst
with UBS AG. “Some Australian credit-default swaps became
severely dislocated, notably the major banks and property
companies, creating trading opportunities for investors to
profit by selectively selling protection.”  The extra yield investors demand to hold company bonds
relative to the swap rate climbed 31 basis points to 153 in
August, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Australian
Corporate & Collateralized Index. Average bond spreads were 27
basis points lower than default swaps on Aug. 24, the biggest
discount since March 19, 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Default-swaps costs were lower as recently as Aug. 2.  Selling Protection  AMP Capital Investors Ltd. has been selling default
protection on Australian banks to take advantage of the positive
basis, said David Carruthers, a senior  money manager  at the
Sydney-based firm, which has about A$30 billion ($32 billion) of
fixed-income assets under management.  The cost of Australian credit-default swaps is too high
relative to U.S. and European contracts, Carruthers said.  “Australia is tracking very well from a corporate balance
sheet perspective,” he said. “As a relative trade it makes
sense to sell protection on Aussie iTraxx and buy protection on
Europe or U.S.”  The outlook for the nation’s companies is “stable” and
liquidity will remain solid, while revenue and earnings growth
will continue, Moody’s Investors Service said in a report
yesterday.  Australian retail sales rose 0.5 percent in July, the first
increase in three months and more than economists forecast, led
by gains in spending at department stores and restaurants, the
statistics bureau said yesterday.  Australian corporate bonds have returned 7.5 percent this
year, beating the 6.3 percent gain from U.S. notes and a 4.3
percent return from global company debentures, the Merrill
indexes show.  Sovereign Returns  Still, they’ve been eclipsed by the nation’s sovereign
notes at 9.5 percent, the best among 21 developed nations
tracked by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies.  Australia’s benchmark 10-year government bonds marked their
longest rally in 20 years in August as slowdowns in the U.S. and
 Europe  spurred investors to seek the safest assets. The 10-year
yield fell 2 basis points to 4.41 percent at 11:12 a.m. in
Sydney today, after dropping 43 basis points last month, the
eighth month of declines.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, was at $1.0733 as of 11:14 a.m. in Sydney. The so-
called Aussie dropped 2.6 percent last month and fell below
parity with the greenback for the first time since March as the
 European Central Bank  was forced to buy Spanish and Italian
bonds to staunch the region’s debt crisis, and  Standard & Poor’s 
cut the U.S. credit rating to AA+ from AAA.  ‘Developed Economy’ Recession  The global economic crisis is leading to a possible
“developed economy” recession in the U.S. and Europe, which
may be hard to alleviate, Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said Aug. 30. The world’s biggest manager of bond
funds favors investing in Australia,  Mexico ,  Brazil  and  Canada ,
along with non-dollar currencies that have strong ties to the
Asian continent, said Gross, co-chief investment officer and
founder of Pimco.  The average cost of five-year credit-default swaps on
Australia’s four biggest banks surged 49 basis points in August
to 174.7, CMA prices show. The yield premium over the swap rate
on Westpac Banking Corp.’s A$1.47 billion of 7.25 percent notes
due November 2016 increased 14 basis points last month to 127,
according to Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices.  Company Default  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  An investor who sells a swap contract receives an annual
premium in return for compensating the buyer if a borrower fails
to meet its debt agreements. The risk faced is similar to that
of an investor who owns a bond, in that both will suffer losses
if a company defaults.  “Selling protection on CDS represents an opportunity,
especially when comparing to Australian dollar-denominated cash
bonds,” said  Robert Mead , Sydney-based head of  investment
management  at Pimco. It’s a way to “ improve portfolio
liquidity at the same time as picking up credit spread,” he
said.  The relative yield on Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporate Master
index jumped 52 basis points last month to 207 basis points. The
Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of credit-
default swaps increased 19 basis points to 115, CMA data show.  ‘Underweight Credit’  The number of default-swap contracts used to speculate on
the creditworthiness of companies in the current version of the
Markit iTraxx Australia index surged to 3,234, protecting a net
amount of $4 billion as of Aug. 26, from 2,042 and $3.5 billion
a month earlier, according to  data  on the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp. website.  The Merrill index of U.S. notes has 4,778 securities and a
market value of $3.78 trillion, compared with the Australian
index with 166 bonds and a value of A$71.7 billion.  “If you want to go underweight credit in Australia, it is
problematic selling your cash bonds as you can’t always get them
back when you want to,” said Scott Rundell, head of credit
research at ING Investment Management in Sydney, which manages
about A$15 billion of fixed-income assets. “Investors have been
using credit-default swaps instead, which is why CDS has over-
reacted given how well Australian companies are performing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 