-- 
Oil Drops Before U.S. Jobs Data; Gulf of Mexico Rigs Shut as Storm Builds

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-09-02T07:33:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/crude-declines-before-u-s-jobs-report-weather-system-shuts-rigs-in-gulf.html
Oil dropped in  New York , trimming a
second weekly gain, as investors speculated a U.S. jobs report
will signal the economy is weakening, curbing fuel demand in the
world’s biggest crude consumer. A tropical depression shut rigs
in the Gulf of Mexico.  Futures fell as much as 0.6 percent before data today that
may show companies slowed hiring last month. Oil rose earlier
after almost 6 percent of crude output in the Gulf was shut
ahead of the strengthening storm. The depression may approach
the southern coast of  Louisiana  this weekend, according to the
National Hurricane Center.  “Demand out of the U.S. is pretty flat at the moment,”
said  Gavin Wendt , founder of Mine Life Pty., an energy and
mining analyst based in Sydney. “The fear that supplies are
going to be impacted can increase the  risk premium  that’s
associated with crude.”  Oil for October delivery fell as much as 54 cents to $88.39
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was $88.47 at 3:31 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday gained 12 cents to $88.93, the highest close
since Aug. 3. Prices are up 3.6 percent this week and 18 percent
the past year.  Brent oil for October settlement was at $113.95, down 34
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark was at a premium of $25.52 to U.S. futures,
up from $25.36 at yesterday’s settlement and compared with a
record close of $26.21 on Aug. 19.  Rig Evacuations  New York oil dropped 7.2 percent last month amid
speculation the  U.S. economy  is slowing. A Labor Department
report today may show non-farm payrolls climbed by 68,000 last
month after a 117,000 increase in July, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  About 5.7 percent of Gulf oil production and 2.4 percent of
natural gas output has been shut, according to the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement.  The tropical depression, about 240 miles (385 kilometers)
southwest of the Mississippi River mouth, was “nearly
stationary,” the Miami-based center said in an  advisory  issued
before 2 a.m. East Coast time. It may strengthen into a tropical
storm before reaching Louisiana’s coast.  BP Plc is evacuating all personnel at platforms in the  Gulf
of Mexico , according to a message on the company’s hurricane hot
line. Anadarko Petroleum Corp. removed workers from its Gulf
facilities and is shutting output at eight operating platforms.  Shell, Exxon  Royal Dutch Shell Plc said it was evacuating employees from
most of its operations and has shut in some production, mainly
from subsea fields. Exxon Mobil Corp. pulled 140 workers from
platforms and shut in 11,000 barrels a day of liquids output.  Noble Corp. took about 300 workers from three of five
active rigs in the Gulf. ConocoPhillips evacuated all workers
and shut in output from the Magnolia platform, which averaged
daily production of 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent last year.  Tropical Storm Katia, another Atlantic weather system, may
restrengthen in the next 24 hours after being downgraded from a
category 1 hurricane, according to the hurricane center. The
forecast path shows Katia north of  Puerto Rico , east of the
Bahamas and south of  Bermuda  by Sept. 6.  A shift westward may bring the storm to land in eastern
 Canada , according to AccuWeather Inc. Canada’s Atlantic region
is a major gasoline supplier for the Northeast, exporting
469,704 cubic meters, or 2.96 million barrels, of the fuel in
May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  