-- 
Czarnecki’s Getin Said to Seek Buyer for Insurer TU Europa

-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 
2011-09-01T14:21:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/czarnecki-s-getin-is-said-to-seek-buyer-for-poland-s-insurer-tu-europa.html
Getin Holding SA (GTN) , the Polish
financial-services group run by billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, is
exploring a sale of insurer TU Europa SA, said people familiar
with the process.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  is advising on a possible sale, said
the people, who declined to be identified as talks are private.
The market value of the insurer, which is 67 percent owned by
Getin, is about 1.52 billion zloty ($526 million).  Czarnecki, 49, has built and sold other companies before to
raise funds for fresh projects. His insurer is  Poland ’s third
biggest by gross premiums written, selling mortgage, life and
travel insurance through more than 30 banking partners and 850
travel agencies, according to its website.  Maria Bninska, a spokeswoman for Wroclaw-based Getin, said
she had nothing to disclose beyond Getin’s current public
statements. Alicja Hamkalo, a representative for TU Europa, said
she had no information to share on the matter. JPMorgan
spokesman Axel Luedeke declined to comment.  In 2001, Czarnecki sold Europejski Fundusz Leasingowy SA,
Poland’s first leasing company, to  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , putting
the funds into Getin. Czarnecki had earlier founded an
underwater engineering company in the 1980s.  TU Europa said last month that first-half profit rose 20
percent to more than 84 million zloty. Insurers are seeking
acquisitions in countries such as Poland, eastern  Europe ’s
biggest economy, as growth in the West slows.  KBC Groep NV (KBC) , the recipient of 7 billion euros ($10
billion) in Belgian government rescue funds, got permission from
the European Commission in July to sell Towarzystwo Ubezpieczen
i Reasekuracji Warta SA, Poland’s second-largest insurer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  