-- 
Czechs May Sell Eurobond at Yields Below Higher-Rated Belgium on Deficit

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-02T13:37:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/czechs-may-sell-eurobond-at-yields-below-higher-rated-belgium-on-deficit.html
The Czech Republic’s funding costs
may fall below higher-rated  Belgium ’s at an international bond
sale as soon as this month as investors bet on a deficit-
reduction plan.  The government plans to sell at least 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) of foreign debt by the end of October, tapping markets
for the first time since a 2 billion-euro offering a year ago.  The yield on the Czech Republic’s euro-denominated notes
due in April 2021 fell to the lowest in more than 10 months on
speculation lower debt will help the country avoid the euro-
area’s credit crisis. Prime Minister Petr Necas plans to cut the
 budget deficit  to less than the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of economic output by 2013.  “The  Czech Republic  is seen by many as a safe haven, with
credible fiscal and monetary policies,” Simon Quijano-Evans,
chief economist for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa  at ING Groep
NV’s, said on Aug. 30. “Investors will be hungry for yield
pick-up coupled with quality, which is where a Czech Eurobond
would fit in well.”  The 2021 notes in euros yielded 3.79 percent yesterday,
compared with 4.05 percent for Belgium’s securities of similar
maturity. The cost of insuring against a Czech default is the
lowest in emerging Europe at 110 basis points, half of 254
points for Belgium, CMA’s data on credit-default swaps show.  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 24 raised the Czech Republic’s
long-term foreign-currency debt two steps to AA-, the fourth-
highest grade and on par with  Japan  and below Belgium at AA+.
S&P said the upgrade reflected a change in rating criteria that
highlighted the Czech government’s low indebtedness and the
“prudently managed and balanced economy.”  Low Debt  The Czech Republic’s government debt at 39 percent of gross
domestic product at the end of last year was the lowest among
the EU’s four biggest eastern economies and less than half of
the euro-area’s average, according to European Commission data.
Belgium, which has a similar population, economic growth and
budget deficit as the Czechs, had debt at 97 percent of GDP.  “Investors have started to discern the quality of
sovereign borrowers and the Czech Republic is doing very well in
this area,” Deputy Finance Minister Jan Gregor said in an
interview on Aug. 24. “I hope that September or October will be
the ideal months and the window of opportunity will open.”  Economic Recovery  The Czech economy’s recovery is driven by demand for its
products, including Skoda Auto AS vehicles and car parts, in
western  Europe . Consumption has been damped after the government
raised taxes and trimmed spending to cut the budget deficit and
as the  unemployment rate  has stayed above 8 percent for more
than two years.  Bills changing the pension system and taxes, part of the
government’s plan to control the budget, are scheduled for the
final reading in the lower house of parliament during a session
that started on Aug. 30.  The government may need to cut spending next year to meet
its budget-deficit target because the euro region’s debt crisis
will probably lead to slower economic growth, Finance Minister
Miroslav Kalousek said Aug 21.  The  Finance Ministry  may cut its 2012 GDP growth forecast
from 2.5 percent on concern that exports, which account for
about 70 percent of the economy, will wane, according to
Kalousek. The Cabinet targets to narrow public-finance gap, the
fiscal yardstick for assessing an EU member’s readiness to adopt
the euro, to 4.2 percent of GDP this year from 4.7 percent in
2010. The 2012 target is 3.5 percent.  Koruna Climbs  The budget plans also helped the Czech koruna gain 2.7
percent against the euro this year, the most among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Belgium, a
charter member of the euro region, had a budget gap of 4.1
percent of GDP last year.  “The Czech Republic is the silver lining on the horizon,”
Commerzbank AG analyst Carolin Hecht said in an e-mail. “Even
if the rating change is mainly due to a change in the evaluation
measures, it underlines once again the role of the Czech
Republic as an island in the eastern European universe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  