-- 
Deutsche Telekom Losing $12 Billion Even With New Bid: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-01T20:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/deutsche-telekom-losing-12-billion-even-with-new-t-mobile-buyer-real-m-a.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  may never get as
good a deal for T-Mobile USA as it did with  AT&T Inc. (T)   AT&T agreed in March to pay $39 billion for Deutsche
Telekom’s U.S. mobile-phone unit, a takeover that the Justice
Department yesterday sued to block. The deal, struck at 28.8
times profit, gave T-Mobile USA the highest valuation of any
wireless carrier outside China. With T-Mobile USA now mired in
its biggest profit slump in almost a decade, a sale at the same
multiple AT&T was willing to pay would generate $12 billion less
for Deutsche Telekom, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While AT&T said it plans to fight the lawsuit, Deutsche
Telekom risks getting saddled with a mobile-phone business that
had profit declines in four of the past five years and lost more
than a half-million subscribers in 2011. Turning to  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) , which analysts say will lose money for a fifth
straight year, would mean persuading T-Mobile USA’s larger rival
to buy an incompatible wireless network that would still leave
the combined entity with fewer customers than  Verizon Wireless 
or AT&T, the two largest U.S. carriers.  “They’ve got a problem on their hands with T-Mobile,”
Brian Barish, Denver-based president of Cambiar Investors LLC,
which oversees about $8 billion, said in a telephone interview.
Deutsche Telekom isn’t “going to get as much money as they were
hoping. It’s basically damaged goods, T-Mobile. They are going
to have to figure out a plan B strategy that is mindful of that
unavoidable reality,” he said.  ‘Problem Child’  Andreas Fuchs, a spokesman at Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom,
declined to comment on how much T-Mobile USA would be worth to a
buyer other than AT&T.  Deutsche Telekom fell 7.6 percent yesterday, the biggest
decline in 15 months. The shares slumped after the U.S.
government filed a complaint in federal court, saying that
AT&T’s purchase of T-Mobile USA would “substantially lessen
competition” in the wireless market. The sale would combine the
second- and fourth-largest U.S. carriers and help AT&T leapfrog
Verizon as the largest mobile-phone company in America.  Deutsche Telekom advanced 2.2 percent to 9 euros. AT&T fell
0.7 percent to $28.27 after retreating 3.9 percent yesterday.  The government’s antitrust suit “probably kills the
deal,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at Investec Securities
in  London . For Deutsche Telekom, “this was its exit route to
get rid of the problem child,” he said.  ‘Enormous Price’  Deutsche Telekom planned to use the money to slash debt,
expand in  Europe  and invest in its local broadband business.
Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said the $39 billion
cash-and-stock agreement was an “enormous price.”  The value of the deal, which excludes T-Mobile USA’s $15.4
billion in debt, was 28.8 times the unit’s net income of $1.35
billion last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was
more than double AT&T’s multiple of 13 at the time and higher
than the median 11.9 times profit for 32 mobile-phone companies
outside  China  with market values greater than $1 billion.  Both AT&T and Deutsche Telekom have said they plan to
contest the U.S. effort to quash the takeover.  “We are surprised and disappointed by today’s action,
particularly since we have met repeatedly with the Department of
Justice and there was no indication from the DOJ that this
action was being contemplated,” Wayne Watts, AT&T’s general
counsel, said in a statement. “We intend to vigorously contest
this matter in court.”  AT&T’s Concessions  Mark Siegel , a spokesman for Dallas-based AT&T, declined to
comment beyond the statement from Watts.  The companies can still salvage the deal if enough
concessions are made to satisfy the U.S. government, according
to Jan Goehmann, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hannover,  Germany .  AT&T has already pledged to bring 5,000 call-center jobs
back to the U.S. from other countries once the merger closes and
wouldn’t cut any U.S. wireless call-center jobs.  “It’s definitely still possible that the deal will go
through with some conditions,” said Goehmann.  While Deutsche Telekom said it will get cash, airwaves and
a roaming agreement valued at $7 billion from AT&T if the deal
unravels, it may be forced to offer T-Mobile USA to another
bidder for $12 billion less than its current agreement.  At the same multiple as the AT&T deal, T-Mobile USA would
be worth just $27 billion, based on $935 million in net income
in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Relative Value  T-Mobile USA, which had already cost Deutsche Telekom’s
shareholders 64 percent through yesterday since the unit was
created a decade ago, may sell for even less as it loses more
customers.  The company, which lagged behind its competitors in
building out a third-generation mobile network and missed out on
sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, has reported declining earnings
since the takeover was announced. T-Mobile USA’s net income
plummeted 55 percent in the first half of 2011 as it lost
663,000 contract customers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  No other buyers would offer to pay as much as AT&T because
the two carriers use the same network standard to deliver
mobile-phone and data service, said  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps
manage $6 billion for Alpine Mutual Funds in  New York . T-Mobile
USA’s network is incompatible with Sprint and Verizon.  “There wouldn’t be as many synergies as AT&T because of
the technology platform,” he said in a telephone interview.
“So it would be a lower valuation” with anyone else, he said.  No White Knights  Sprint, which had on and off discussions with Deutsche
Telekom for  T-Mobile USA , was beaten out after AT&T agreed to
pay $25 billion in cash and offered a higher-than-average
breakup fee, three people with knowledge of the matter, who
weren’t authorized to speak publicly, said in March.  Sprint’s debt exceeds its cash and short-term investments
by $14.3 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The company’s
credit rating is three levels below investment grade, according
to Moody’s Investors Service.  “There’s no obvious white knight,” said  Walter Todd , who
helps manage $940 million at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,
 South Carolina . “They’ll have to go back to the drawing board
for their strategic plan if they’re not able to sell it.”  Scott Sloat , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, said it doesn’t comment on rumors or speculation.  The government also implied in its suit that it would
likely prevent any other combination with T-Mobile USA,  Craig Moffett , a New York-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., wrote in a report to clients yesterday.  Bleeding Out  “A plain reading of the DOJ’s complaint makes it clear
that a Sprint/T-Mobile pairing would be equally unacceptable,”
Moffett wrote. “T-Mobile USA may well be forced to remain
independent. The prospects of any other deal, including one with
Sprint, are also very poor.”  That means Deutsche Telekom may be forced to spend more
money to support its U.S. business, sell the unit to its own
shareholders or absorb more losses as it cedes market share,
according to Huntington Asset Advisors’  Peter Sorrentino .  “You’re going to have to spin it off or roll up your
sleeves and make a really big commitment to the business because
status quo is a wasting asset,” Sorrentino, a senior portfolio
manager at Huntington Asset in Cincinnati, which manages $14.8
billion, said in a telephone interview. “Better to exit than
let the thing bleed you out over time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at +49-30-700106-215 or  kwong11@bloomberg.net . 