-- 
Deutsche Boerse Customers Quizzed Again in EU Merger Probe

-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-09-01T18:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/deutsche-boerse-customers-quizzed-for-second-time-in-eu-probe.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE Euronext
customers and over-the-counter derivatives platforms were
quizzed for a second time by European Union regulators examining
the effect of the $7.46 billion exchange deal on competition.  The European Commission asked what Bats Global Markets,
Chi-X  Europe  Ltd. or  The Order Machine  would need to succeed in
derivatives trading, in a 106 question-survey of derivatives
platforms. Customers were asked in a separate 98-question poll
about the difference in fees paid for trading on exchanges or
over-the-counter for a single stock option, an equity index
option or an interest rate future/forward.  Deutsche Boerse ’s offer for NYSE Euronext would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European  stock trading  in the
hands of one organization. The EU opened an expanded probe into
the deal last month, citing concerns over reduced innovation in
derivatives products and technology.  Regulators seek comments from competitors and customers
when they examine whether a large takeover may harm competition.  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
declined to comment on the questionnaires. Naomi Kim, a
spokeswoman for Deutsche Boerse in  New York , and James Dunseath,
a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in  London , both declined to
immediately comment.  Exchange Rivalries  OTC platforms were asked how U.S. and EU efforts to shift
derivatives trading through clearinghouses would affect
rivalries between exchanges and other platforms and between
Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext in the absence of the merger.  They were also quizzed how the two exchanges’ derivatives
trading arms compete with each other on European long-term and
short-term interest rates, European index derivatives and
European single stock derivatives.  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext have resisted any
suggestion that they would sell their Eurex or NYSE Liffe
derivatives markets, the two largest in Europe. They said in a
February statement that the two complement each other ideally on
interest rate products, “with Eurex specializing in the long
end of the interest rate curve and NYSE Liffe in the short
end.”  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s competition chief, said last
month that the proposed merger “would remove a strong
competitor from the market and would give the merged company by
far the leading position in derivatives trading in Europe.” The
EU’s antitrust agency has set a deadline of Dec. 13 to rule on
the deal.  Reuters reported on the questionnaires today. The EU sent
an initial set of questionnaires in the case earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  