-- 
Dump the Porsche for a $3,200 Road Bicycle

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/dump-the-porsche-for-agony-and-ecstasy-of-3-200-bicycle-jason-h-harper.html
Of all the vehicles I’ve tested this
year, from Lamborghinis to electric cars, the one I’m most
obsessed with is a bicycle.  A $3,200, carbon-fiber Cannondale road bike to be exact.  The extent of the obsession became clear several Sundays
ago. I got out bed at 6 a.m. to cycle 52 miles in torrential
rain. I’d been training for this bike rally for months. So what
if the gutters were running like the Nile?  It all began in June. I’ve long driven mountain roads in
Porsches, sharing the twisties with cyclists steaming up hills
under their own power. Misery or ecstasy? I had to find out.  We’re all good drivers and we all know how to ride a bike,
right? Not so fast. Similarities between cycling and driving
 sports cars  were quickly apparent. You’ve got to pick the right
car or bike for you, then learn to properly use it.  Road bikes run into five figures, and walking into a bike
shop is intimidating. I chose Sid’s Bikes in New York’s Chelsea
and explained my quest in car terms.  If a steel-body road bike was a Ford Mustang and a $20,000-
plus Eddy Merckx EMX-7 was a Ferrari 458, I was looking for a
Cadillac CTS-V. An emphasis on smart design and nimble power,
but without the European markup.  I was pointed to a carbon-fiber Cannondale Synapse, from
$1,800 up to $6,400. Weighing 16.5 pounds with an integrated
rear suspension, it was quick but not twitchy. Looked cool, too.  Components like wheels and gears come in different levels,
from the inexpensive to pricy electronic shifters. After a pre-
and post-purchase “fitting,” not unlike a tailored suit, I
rode out on a 54-centimeter frame with midlevel components.  Bambi Legs  My first ride around  Manhattan  left me feeling like Bambi:
all wobbly legs. It’s difficult to clip into foot pedals while
avoiding taxis. Out-of-city rides in  Harriman State Park  were a
better idea. Fewer cars and less humiliation. Also, big hills
and fun descents.  I’m a runner, so my fitness level was good. Bike handling
skills were another thing altogether.  I couldn’t look over my left shoulder without wobbling into
traffic (bad), and taking a hand off the handlebars for a sip of
water was next to impossible.  In July, I had a breakthrough while driving Jaguars on the
racetrack. Everything I knew about driving translated to the
bicycle. Fundamentals like finishing braking before a turn,
understanding how handling is affected by transferring weight
and looking where you want to go rather than at the objects you
want to avoid.  Need Help  But I had had years of instruction from professional
racecar drivers. I needed some cycling help. I’d signed up for
the 52-mile Ramapo Rally in Mahwah, New Jersey, in a month’s
time, and I’d be riding in tight groups. It wasn’t a race, but
it would be competitive. I had visions of knocking everybody
over.  Cannondale Bicycle Corp., which was acquired in 2008 by 
Dorel Industries Inc., has its headquarters in Bethel,
 Connecticut , so I reached out. Michael De Leon, senior public
relations manager, invited me on an employee group ride.
“Anything to help a new enthusiast,” he said.  Cannondale is the kind of place where employee bikes
outnumber cars and lunchtime rides are expected. De Leon
introduced me to Murray Washburn, the technical marketing
manager, who’s a bit of a bike whisperer. Washburn made me
practice basics like emergency braking.  He also coached me in the etiquette of group riding, where
mere inches separate cyclists biking in single file or two or
more abreast. This “drafting” creates a shield from the wind,
but also encourages crashes.  Drafted In  Washburn and De Leon took me on a 20-mile ride where we
practiced drafting. Since I didn’t knock anyone over, De Leon
volunteered to join my  New Jersey  rally in mid August. During
the next month I joined several group rides and trounced more
experienced riders on steep hills. Confidence bloomed -- perhaps
overmuch so.  So it was that De Leon and I started our rally in hard
rain. We began with a slow pack but soon left them behind,
powering through group after group. I was feeling strong,
especially on the hills.  With 15 miles to go, we rode into a swift group of a dozen.
I looked over at De Leon. Should we pass? He shook his head.
“Patience,” he counseled.  We fell in instead. Three riders on my left, two on my
right, many front and back. We zinged down the streets, shedding
stragglers.  It was just like driving on a racetrack, inches off another
Porsche’s bumper. Exhilarating. I loved cycling.  Then, on the last big hill, my energy buckled. My legs
slowed and I sucked wind and the group slowly pulled away. In
biking parlance, I’d been “dropped.”  “Great job,” De Leon said when I limped into the parking
lot, a wet, muddy mess. “You were really strong. You just need
to learn to pace, so you have enough power at the end.” Pace to
retain power? One thing I never had to worry about while driving
a Porsche.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 