-- 
Technip Chief Says Libya Won’t Play Important Role in Portfolio

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-09-01T10:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/technip-chief-says-libya-won-t-play-important-role-in-portfolio.html
Technip SA (TEC)  Chief Executive Officer
Thierry Pilenko said he doesn’t expect Libya will play an
important role in the company’s portfolio in the near term and
that resuming oil and gas production in the war-torn country
would likely take time.  As rebels close in on the remaining towns held by Muammar
Qaddafi’s forces, the international coalition that helped push
out the Libyan strongman is meeting in Paris today to discuss
support for the country’s reconstruction and transition to
democracy. Italy’s Eni SpA has been in contact with rebel groups
throughout the conflict to ensure it doesn’t lose ground to
French, U.K. and U.S. petroleum companies, according to a person
with knowledge of the company’s strategy.  Pilenko spoke in an interview in Oslo today.  On  Libya :  “We don’t know what the current state of the
infrastructure there is. We have to go there to assess it. Some
areas have been hit, others haven’t and for some we simply don’t
know, so that will take some time and in order to assess this
the country needs to be secure. So we can’t be too impatient --
the country is still at war today.  ‘‘We haven’t been in contact at the political level. We’re
not a political organization, but as soon as government
institutions have been established, with a ministry of petroleum
and a national company staffed with the experts who used to be
there and many of whom are still there, we’ll be in contact. But
we don’t use politics to win business, we get business directly
with clients based on the value of our technology and
operational management skills.”  Libya “won’t play an important role in our short-term
portfolio. We don’t know how the decisions will be made and what
type of processes will be in place -- if they are the same as
those of the past, which were quite slow. So we can’t count on
Libya to change the face of Technip. We’ll look at it, but it’s
not something that’s very important.”  On bullish outlook for Technip’s market:  “What would make us change our outlook is if clients start
delaying or cancel projects, because  oil prices  are going down.
But the price of oil remains very high today. Should the price
fall below $80 a barrel we’ll start seeing projects that are
postponed.  ‘‘Today demand continues to be strong. The  North Sea  is
going very well,  Brazil  is strong, the  Gulf of Mexico  is re-
emerging and  Asia  represents a lot of potential, but competition
is tougher there.’’  On consolidation in the subsea oil service industry:  ‘‘It’s hard to see how there’ll be more consolidation in
subsea, because there are large players there now, major actors
that can’t combine for antitrust reasons.  ‘‘We’ve looked at all the opportunities available, but so
far we’ve favored organic growth.”  -- Editors: Alex Devine, Jonas Bergman  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 