-- 
Hedge Funds Lansdowne, Odey Suffer Rare Down Years on Bullish Stock Wagers

-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 
2011-09-02T10:38:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/hedge-funds-lansdowne-odey-suffer-down-years-on-stock-wagers.html
Lansdowne Partners Ltd. and Odey
European Inc., two of the U.K.’s biggest hedge funds, started
2011 bullish on stocks. The shared view has led both firms to
have one of their toughest years managing money.  Lansdowne’s U.K. Equity Fund, which oversees more than $8
billion, was down about 18.6 percent through Aug. 19 after
averaging an annual gain of 15.5 percent since the fund started
trading in 2001, investors said. Odey European, the hedge fund
run by  Crispin Odey , fell about 15 percent through Aug. 12,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Odey, whose Odey Asset
Management LLP oversees $7 billion, posted an average increase
of 17.9 percent from 1992 through 2010.  The Lansdowne Equity Fund’s biggest holdings include mining
company  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY) , stocks that have fallen between 12 percent and 46
percent this year as investors lose faith that economic growth
will fuel bank profits and a demand for commodities. Odey’s
assessment eight months ago that he should be “very long
equities” hurt him after European markets plunged this year in
response to the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  “The markets aren’t trading the same way that hedge funds
are trading,” said Gemma Godfrey of Credo Capital Plc, a wealth
manager in London that has 1.3 billion pounds ($2.1 billion)
invested in hedge funds and other asset managers. “Managers are
picking companies that they believe will do well in the long
term. The markets are behaving quite irrationally, reacting to
macro-economic fears.”  ‘Still Bullish’  A spokesman for Lansdowne, Europe’s biggest hedge fund
focused on stocks, declined to comment. Odey, 52, is “still
bullish on growth,”  David Stewart , chief executive officer of
Odey Asset Management LLP, said in an interview yesterday.  Hedge funds primarily in stocks were up 0.9 percent for the
year through July, according to Hedge Fund Research Inc. Hedge
funds broadly gained 1.7 percent through the first seven months
of the year, according to the Chicago-based firm. Hedge Fund
Research is still compiling data for August, a month when U.S.
stocks fell the most in 14 months and European equities suffered
their steepest declines since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
2008 bankruptcy triggered a global credit freeze.  Odey told his investors on a January conference call that
2011 would be “one of those years where actually the recovery
comes through,” according to a transcript obtained by Bloomberg
News. “Obviously, if you think the market is going to fall
apart you wouldn’t have the positions I am running,” he said.  ‘Amazingly Depressed’  Odey, in laying out potential risks to his view that stocks
would rise, correctly predicted one factor that has ensnared
markets this year: fear. He told clients eight months ago that
“people remain amazingly depressed” about the global economy.  Fears that the  U.S. economy  may relapse into a recession
and that a European country could default on its debt helped
trigger a 13 percent decline in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
during the first three weeks of August. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index plunged 22 percent over the same period.  Investor fears about banks contributed to the “harsh
reaction” to Lloyds’s Aug. 4 announcement that it lost 2.31
billion pounds during the first six months of the year, Stuart Roden and Peter Davies, co-managers of Lansdowne’s U.K. Equity
Fund, wrote in a letter to clients last month that was obtained
by Bloomberg News. The U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender fell 10
percent that day to 34.99 pence in  London  trading, its lowest
level since March 2009. Lloyds closed at 35.67 pence yesterday.  Lloyds’s Outlook  Combining Lloyds’s potential earnings over the next three
years with existing capital and the amount of money the bank has
set aside for bad loans produces a sum that equals about 20
percent of its outstanding loans, according to Roden and Davies.
As a result, the money managers estimate U.K. unemployment would
have to increase by about 8 percentage points for Lloyds’s
capital to be eroded, an unlikely scenario that they say other
investors are ignoring.  It would require “a truly staggering level of bad debts to
require further capital injections,” they told clients. “The
balance-sheet strength is materially underappreciated.”  Sagging confidence in  Europe  prompted the managers of
Lansdowne’s Global Financials Fund, which has more than $2
billion, to cut their holdings in the region’s banks. The
tipping point was a surge in yields on Spanish and Italian
sovereign bonds, which showed that policy makers may not be able
to contain the crisis, managers William de Winton, Marc Rubenstein and Stephen Kirk, told clients in an August letter.  Euro Bonds  The “net exposure” of the Global Financials fund, which
invests in banks, asset managers and insurers, was cut to 8
percent in August from 18 percent at the end of July, the letter
said. Net exposure measures how much a firm is hedged by
subtracting bets that stocks will fall from bullish wagers.  The “only policy response which could certainly end” the
contagion spreading through debt markets in  Greece ,  Portugal ,
 Italy ,  Spain  and Greece would be for governments to replace
sovereign bonds with “euro-zone” bonds backed by the entire
European Union, de Winton, Rubenstein and Kirk wrote.  “Unfortunately, neither public pronouncements nor our own
contact with policy makers suggest that fiscal union is close or
even on the agenda,” they told clients. “The political outcome
is obviously not susceptible to economic analysis.”  The Global Financials fund declined 13.7 percent in 2011
through Aug. 19 after posting an average annual gain of 14.4
percent since its inception in 2004, investors said.  Its managers, who have stakes in  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , remain bullish on
U.S. banks. They predict investors will continue to shun
financial stocks as long as Europe’s crisis stokes fears about
the solvency of lenders holding sovereign debt.  “In times of stress, correlations rise rapidly,” de
Winton, Rubenstein and Kirk, wrote in their August letter. “In
the short term, U.S. banks are unlikely to escape any stresses
that arise in the European banks’ space.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  