-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance After Brazil's Surprise Interest-Rate Cut

-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-09-01T21:25:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/emerging-market-stocks-climb-as-u-s-factory-orders-expand-at-faster-rate.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, with
the benchmark climbing to the highest level in almost four
weeks, after  Brazil ’s surprise rate cut boosted investors’
confidence that developing nations can weather faltering global
growth.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.5 percent to 1038
by 4:34 p.m. in New York, the highest close since Aug. 5.
Brazil’s Bovespa index surged to the highest level in a month
after the central bank unexpectedly cut the benchmark lending
rate yesterday. Benchmark indexes in Chile, Russia,  South Africa 
and  Taiwan  increased for a fifth day.  The Brazilian central bank’s surprise cut in  interest rates 
makes the country the second in the Group of 20 after  Turkey  to
use that tool to safeguard the economy against a global
slowdown. The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini,
voted to cut the benchmark rate a half point to 12 percent after
raising it at each of its previous five meetings.  “The Brazilian rate cut is significant because it shows
how emerging markets have the monetary flexibility that
developed markets don’t have,” said  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage
$30 billion at Van Eck Associates in  New York . “Developing
nations are able to go ahead against slowdown and to stimulate
the economy.”  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region slumped to the weakest in
two years, London-based Markit Economics said today. In  China ,
manufacturing growth remained near a 29-month low last month and
purchasing managers’ indexes in South Korea and Taiwan
contracted, highlighting signs of a worsening global slowdown.  Exporters Gain  The Bovespa index rose 2.9 percent to the highest level
since Aug 1. Banco Bradesco SA, Brazil’s second-biggest bank by
market value, gained the most since March 2009. BM&FBovespa SA,
the operator of Brazil’s largest bourse, jumped 8.3 percent, the
most since May 2010. Tecnisa SA rose 8.8 percent, leading gains
by real estate companies, as the  BM&FBovespa Real Estate (IMOBBV)  Index
rose 6.2 percent.  Exporters advanced on speculation shipments to the U.S.,
the biggest market for Asian products, will increase. Samsung
Electronics, South Korea’s biggest exporter of consumer
electronics, gained 3.6 percent in  Seoul .  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , which
gets about 65 percent of its revenue in the U.S., surged 5.7
percent in Hong Kong.  While Brazil’s central bank cut its benchmark interest rate
yesterday, all 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expected no
change, as was favored by the two dissenting board members.  “The move may be a good reminder for central bank
governors in China and other Asian countries,” said Yang Delong, a fund manager at China Southern Fund Management Co.,
which oversees $21 billion. “It might be time to think if
monetary policy has been too tight.”  Real Weakens  The Brazilian real led declines among emerging market
currencies, weakening 1.9 percent versus the dollar, followed by
the Hungarian forint with a 1.6 percent drop.  The WIG20 Index fell for the first time in four days,
retreating 1.5 percent in Warsaw, and  Hungary ’s BUX Index fell
1.1 percent.  The euro region purchasing managers’ index declined to 49
from 50.4 in July, according to Markit. That’s below an initial
estimate of 49.7 published on Aug. 23. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  U.S. Manufacturing  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in August, showing
that the two-year economic recovery may be sustained. The
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index fell to 50.6
last month, the lowest level since July 2009, when economists
projected the gauge would drop to 48.5, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Turkish, Indian, Indonesian and Malaysian markets were shut
for public holidays.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose eight basis points to 362 basis
points, or 3.62 percentage points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default swaps added one basis
point to 250.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in New York at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 Lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  