-- 
Merkel Brings European Debt Crisis to Home-State Campaign in Taste of 2013

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-09-01T22:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/merkel-takes-debt-crisis-to-party-campaign.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
opened her party’s campaign for Sept. 4 elections in her home
state with a theme that transcended local issues: the sovereign
debt storm battering  Europe  and global markets.  Merkel’s electoral gambit reflects hardening battle lines
between her coalition and the opposition over how to quell the
turmoil that has spread from Greece. By turning the vote into a
referendum on her push for deficit cuts and rejection of joint
debt guarantees, she may be honing a message for her re-election
bid in 2013, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group.  The debt crisis “is something that polarizes,” Brzeski
said by phone from Brussels. “It helps to distinguish her from
the  Social Democrats , who support euro bonds. It’s also directed
at her own coalition in Berlin, a clear message to her own party
and also to the Liberals to close ranks.”  In nine campaign stops over 18 days, including two today
and a final rally tomorrow, Merkel is taking her call directly
to voters in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, the eastern state on
the Baltic Sea where she has her electoral district.  “You know very well how things work here, how local
government has to save, that one can’t afford everything -- and
naturally that applies to all of Europe,” Merkel told an Aug.
18 rally in Parchim, a rural county seat of half-timbered houses
about 140 kilometers (90 miles) northwest of Berlin, where
supporters filled benches on the Shoe Market square.  Countries must also boost growth, and “there is dispute
about the concept of how we do this,” she said. “When you go
to vote on Sept. 4, you can help decide.”  Election Defeats  Merkel’s coalition has been defeated or lost votes in all
five German state elections so far this year as voters resisted
her bid to prevent a euro-region breakup by putting more
taxpayer money on the line for sovereign rescues. Merkel blamed
her party’s May 2010 defeat in North Rhine-Westphalia, the
country’s most populous state, on the first Greek bailout, a
result that cost her a majority in parliament’s upper house.  In Mecklenburg, polls suggest Merkel’s tack has failed to
stop the  Social Democratic Party ’s advance, with support for her
 Christian Democratic Union  holding steady around the level of
the last election in 2006. That points to a repeat of the SPD-
led coalition with Merkel’s party that has run the regional
administration in Schwerin for the past five years.  Hanseatic Merchants  In Stralsund, the port city at the heart of Merkel’s
electoral district, CDU Mayor Alexander Badrow sits in his
office four blocks from the sea in the red-brick  city hall  that
dates back to the 13th century. Merkel took President  George W. Bush  there during the Group of Eight summit she hosted in 2007.  Emblems of Hanseatic cities decorate the building’s gable,
an indication of the money made by Stralsund’s merchant traders
in past centuries, while young people on laptops sip lattes at a
café across the cobbled Old Market Square.  Badrow, 38, said the debt turmoil that threatens the global
economic recovery has reached the  Baltic Sea  coastal state,
registering with voters more used to discussing local issues and
who now express concern at “how we’ll get it under control.”  “People ask me: ‘Is helping other countries the right
thing to do, because these are basically funds that we have to
do without?’” Badrow said in an interview, surrounded by oil
paintings of former city leaders and sailing ships in bottles.
“We have to save and we have all kinds of constraints, so is it
right to do this to avert something even worse?”  Opposition Stance  The Social Democrats, the main opposition party nationally,
support joint euro bonds, restocking the European rescue fund
and forcing investors to take losses of as much as 50 percent to
help  Greece  recover, proposals that feed into early jostling for
the 2013 national vote.  Backers include  Peer Steinbrueck , Merkel’s finance minister
in her first term and the nation’s most popular politician in a
ZDF television poll published Aug. 12 that ranked Merkel fifth.
The best-selling Bild newspaper said yesterday that Steinbrueck
should be the SPD’s candidate to run against Merkel in 2013.
Former SPD Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder has also backed
Steinbrueck as his party’s chancellor candidate.  Merkel is taking her message of rejection to one of
 Germany ’s economically weakest areas. Mecklenburg-Western
Pomerania, which shares a border with  Poland , is a largely rural
state reliant on low-paid seasonal work in tourism or farming.
Otto von Bismarck, Germany’s first chancellor, once said that if
the world ever came to an end he’d move to Mecklenburg,
“because everything happens 50 years later there.”  Slowest Growth  Today, it has the lowest population density of Germany’s 16
regions and the smallest gross domestic product per person. Of
the 30 companies in the benchmark  DAX index (DAX) , not one is based
there. The local economy grew 0.3 percent last year, the least
of any state, even as national GDP expanded 3.6 percent,
according to the Federal Statistical Office. Unemployment, at
11.5 percent in August, was the nation’s third-highest.  With  tax revenue  forecast to drop as the population
dwindles, all the main parties have committed to fiscal
discipline: The state hasn’t run a  budget deficit  since 2005,
slashing costs by reducing government services.  Even so, backing for the state’s ruling Social Democrats
was at 35 percent, up from 30.2 percent in 2006, while Merkel’s
CDU was at 28 percent after 28.8 percent, an  FG Wahlen poll  for
ZDF showed Aug. 26. With the anti-capitalist Left Party little
changed at 16.5 percent, the SPD may be able to choose between
Merkel’s party or the Left as junior partner.  Merkel is already lowering expectations. Asked by the Bild
am Sonntag newspaper what her election goal is, she said that
her party had ensured “a successful grand coalition” with the
Social Democrats in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania. The aim now
is “for the CDU to be as strong as possible and to get back
into government,” she said in the interview published Aug. 28.  For all her budget-cutting mantra plays to voters in the
state, Merkel’s party alone can’t claim the mantle of fiscal
stewardship, said Nikolaus Werz, a political scientist at
Rostock University.  “My gut feeling tells me you can’t score a lot of points
with the euro issue,” Werz said in Aug. 26 telephone interview.
“I can see that Merkel would want to raise the issue. But I’m
very skeptical that she can score with it in a big way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  