-- 
Esprit Falls Most in Two Years After Forecast of ‘Significant’ Profit Drop

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-02T10:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/esprit-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-on-restructuring-costs-1-.html
Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , the biggest
Hong Kong-listed clothing retailer, slumped the most in two
years on the city’s stock exchange after saying it expects
profit to drop on unspecified store-restructuring costs.  Esprit plunged 10 percent, the most since Aug. 27, 2009, to
HK$19.64 in Hong Kong trading. It was the biggest drop on the
benchmark Hang Seng Index, which fell 1.8 percent.  Net income for the fiscal year that ended June 30 will
“record a significant decrease,” the retailer said in a filing
yesterday. Esprit made more than 80 percent of last year’s
revenue in  Europe , where sales have slumped, and three people
familiar with the matter last month said it’s exploring the sale
of its North American operations.  “This will likely impact fiscal year 2011’s dividend
payout, Vineet Sharma and Phoebe Tse, Hong Kong-based analysts
at  Barclays Capital , said in a note to clients today. Esprit’s
statement ‘‘could reflect an inability to achieve timely closure
for some loss-making stores,” said the analysts, who downgraded
the stock to “equal weight” from “overweight.”  Today’s slide in Esprit’s share price extended this year’s
loss to 47 percent, wiping off more than $2.8 billion from its
market value. The stock’s retreat this year is the biggest on
the  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   Dividend Yield  “We think earnings will keep declining or be flat for a
few years,” Aaron Fischer, head of consumer research at CLSA
Asia-Pacific Markets, said in an e-mail. “Some investors like
the dividend yield but we have been highlighting that is at risk
if earnings disappoint.”  Annual sales will be little changed, said Esprit, which
expects to report earnings on Sept. 15. It didn’t provide more
details on the costs and how they were incurred. Esprit’s board
approved a plan yesterday that includes restructuring store
operations, it said, without providing specifics.  The restructuring “can be seen as positive in the sense
that it suggests strategic decisions taken by the board, such as
rationalizing the business,”  Anne Critchlow , an analyst with
 Societe Generale  in  London  who recommends buying the stock, said
in an e-mail late yesterday.  Esprit, which started in 1968 in  California , has reported
declining profit for two years as it contends with higher
materials costs and competition from  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  and
 Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara. Esprit’s shares slid 29 percent in 2010.  Analysts’ Estimates  Profit margin of 9.97 percent in the six months through
June last year was the lowest since 2002, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Esprit’s profit margin was 12.1 percent
in its fiscal first half that ended in December last year.  Profit for the year ended June 30, 2011 may fall 24 percent
to HK$3.2 billion ($411 million), according to the mean estimate
of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales may rise 0.7 percent
to HK$34 billion, according to the mean estimate of 19 analysts.  Esprit’s forecast decline in profit was based on a
preliminary assessment by the board, it said.  The retailing environment in Europe, where Esprit made 83
percent of sales last year, is difficult.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the
continent’s largest retailer, cut its profit forecast for this
year on Aug. 31, saying it expects operating income to drop
about 15 percent.  ‘Insufficient’ Closures  H&M reported an 18 percent decline in second-quarter profit
as costs increased. Inditex’s first-quarter profit rose to 332
million euros ($475 million) from 301 million euros a year
earlier, growth that beat analysts’ estimates.  “We are not surprised by this at all as we felt that last
year’s closure of 33 stores was grossly insufficient as we
believe the company is losing money in most markets aside from
 Germany , the Benelux countries and  China ,” CLSA’s Fischer said.  Esprit had 1,154 directly managed retail stores worldwide
at the end of last year, according to its first-half earnings
report. It had 12,056 more points of sale, which include
franchises and “shops in stores.”  Esprit was started in 1968 by Susie and Doug Tompkins, who
sold clothes out of the back of a station wagon in  San
Francisco , according to the company’s website. The
transformation into a global brand began three years later when
they met Michael Ying, who was chairman from 1993 to 2006.  Ronald Van der Vis was hired as chief executive officer in
2009, replacing Heinz Krogner, who also stepped down as chairman
this year. The current chairman is Hans-Joachim Koerber, former
chief executive officer of Germany’s Metro AG.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid in  Hong Kong  at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  