-- 
Estonia to Raise 2011 GDP Growth Forecast to 7%, Ansip Says

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-09-01T11:17:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/estonia-to-raise-2011-gdp-growth-forecast-to-7-ansip-says-1-.html
Estonia will raise its 2011 forecast
for economic output to about 7 percent from the current outlook
for 4 percent growth, Prime Minister  Andrus Ansip  said.  “As this year’s growth is stronger than expected” the
 Finance Ministry  “will take that faster growth off of next
year’s forecast,” Ansip told a news conference in Tallinn
today. “Broadly speaking, the total volume of gross domestic
product will remain almost unchanged next year.”  Next year’s growth outlook will be revised lower from the
April forecast of 4 percent, he said, confirming Finance
Minister Juergen Ligi’s comments on Aug. 25.  The $19 billion economy, the third in eastern  Europe  to
adopt the euro this January, is growing at the fastest pace in
the European Union this year. Second-quarter gross domestic
product rose 8.4 percent from a year earlier, according to a
preliminary estimate made on Aug. 11. The ministry is due to
publish a detailed forecast on Sept. 7.  Nordea AB, the biggest lender in the Nordic region,
yesterday raised its forecast for  Estonia ’s GDP expansion this
year to 7.5 percent from 5.7 percent. Growth will slow next year
to 3.6 percent, it said. SEB AB, the second-largest Baltic
lender, said earlier this week that it increased its forecast
for this year to 6.5 percent and sees next year’s advance at 3.5
percent.  The Baltic nation, which went through the EU’s second-
deepest contraction in 2008 and 2009 behind  Latvia , is due to
return to pre-crisis GDP levels, adjusted for inflation, by
2015, according to central bank estimates.  “We are experiencing turbulence on a global scale,” Ansip
said. “Whatever happens to the global economy, we know that
Estonia is much better prepared for this than we were three
years ago.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  