-- 
Franc Surges on Demand for Safety Before U.S. Job Report; Yen Strengthens

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-09-02T10:46:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/euro-set-for-biggest-weekly-slump-since-july-before-german-factory-orders.html
The Swiss franc rose against all its
major counterparts, and headed for the biggest weekly gain
versus the euro since the single currency’s introduction, before
a report forecast to show U.S. job growth slowed last month.  The franc climbed more than 2 percent versus the Mexican
peso and Australian dollar as stocks fell and Greek bond yields
soared amid concern the euro-area debt crisis will worsen. The
yen also rallied versus 14 of its 16 major peers after the  New
York  Times said the U.S. may sue companies including Bank of
America Corp. for misrepresenting the quality of securities
backed by home loans.  “Markets are turning more cautious again and guys are
putting on risk-off trades ahead of the non-farm payrolls
data,” said  Chris Walker , a currency strategist at UBS AG in
London. “That’s helping the franc.”  The franc advanced 2 percent to 1.11160 per euro at 6:40
a.m. in New York after rising to 1.10616, the strongest since
Aug. 15,. It has climbed 5.2 percent this week. The Swiss
currency gained 1.9 percent to 78.02 centimes per dollar. The
yen climbed 0.3 percent to 109.41 per euro, after appreciating
to 109.13, the strongest since Aug. 19.  The euro fell 0.1 percent to $1.4249, a fourth day of
declines that extended its loss this week to 1.7 percent.  Franc’s Surge  The franc has surged almost 17 percent against the euro
over the past year as the euro-area’s worsening debt crisis and
signs of slowing economic growth in the region boosted demand
for the currency as a hedge against financial losses. Swiss
Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said this week the
nation’s exporters will “have to live with the strong franc,”
reducing concerns the central bank may intervene to curb gains
in the currency.  The Swiss government this week pledged 870 million francs
($1.1 billion) as part of an economic stimulus package to help
counter the impact of franc strength. The central bank also
lowered borrowing costs to zero last month and boosted liquidity
to the money market to protect exports.  “The franc weakened quite a bit after the liquidity
injection and is now coming back from that,” said Thanos Papasavvas, head of currency management in  London  at Investec
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees about $95 billion. “The
market seems to think the threat of further intervention has
diminished.”  Investec Asset Management is “underweight” the franc and
expects the currency to weaken, said Papasavvas.  Stock Losses  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares retreated 1 percent,
snapping a six-day gain.  Europe ’s Stoxx 600 Index fell for the
first time in five days, losing 2 percent. Futures on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.9 percent.  Greece ’s two-year yield climbed as much as 392 basis points
to a euro-era record 46.85 percent.  U.S. payrolls rose by 68,000 in August, down from a 117,000
increase in July, according to economist estimates before
today’s Labor Department report. The  unemployment rate  probably
held at 9.1 percent, marking 26 out of the last 28 months where
it has been at or above 9 percent.  “People are putting on safe-haven bids by picking up some
yen and franc before the non-farm payrolls data,” said Michael Sneyd, a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe Generale SA in
London. “Reports that the U.S. could sue banks just adds
uncertainty to the mix.”  The U.S.  Federal Housing Finance Agency  is likely to file a
lawsuit against more than a dozen large banks in coming days,
seeking billions of dollars in compensation, the New York Times
said, citing three people briefed on the matter that it didn’t
identify. Bank of America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are among firms that will be targeted, the
newspaper said.  ‘ Risk Aversion ’  The franc and yen tend to strengthen during periods of
financial turmoil because their export-reliant economies don’t
need foreign capital to balance current accounts -- the broadest
measure of trade.  Factory orders in  Germany , Europe’s biggest economy,
decreased 1 percent in July from the prior month, the first drop
since March, according to a Bloomberg News survey. The Economy
Ministry will report the data on Sept. 6.  “The outlook for the euro is pretty bad,” said Daisuke
Karakama, a market economist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Corporate Bank
Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by market value.
“For the past six months, there’s been no good news for it.
Probably there’ll be none going forward either.”  The euro has lost 1.2 percent over the past 12 months
against a basket of its nine major peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has weakened
12 percent over the same period, the worst performer ranked by
the gauge. The franc has risen 17 percent.  Australia ’s dollar snapped a five-day rally against its
U.S. counterpart, losing 0.2 percent to $1.0696 from yesterday
when it climbed $1.0765, the highest since Aug. 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  