-- 
Dollar Gains as ISM Report Eases Fed Speculation; Real Drops, Franc Soars

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-09-01T21:13:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/euro-slips-to-two-week-low-against-dollar-on-renewed-debt-crisis-concern.html
The dollar rose to a two-week high
versus the currencies of six major trade partners as stronger-
than-forecast factory data damped bets the  Federal Reserve  may
take further steps to stimulate growth, debasing the currency.  The greenback extended its gain versus the euro after the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing report prompted
investors to curb speculation the Fed may introduce a third
round of asset purchases, or quantitative easing. The franc
gained against all of its 16 most-traded peers on signs European
economies are slowing. Brazil’s real was the worst performer
after the central bank unexpectedly cut interest rates.  “It signals that we’re not headed into a free-fall in
terms of economic activity,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “The dollar has clearly got a boost out of it.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against peers that include the euro and
yen, gained 0.6 percent to 74.553 at 5 p.m. in  New York . It
touched 74.714, the highest level since Aug. 12.  The franc climbed 2.1 percent to 1.1344 per euro and
reached 1.1321, the strongest level since Aug. 23, from 1.1586
yesterday. The Swiss currency advanced 1.3 percent to 79.55
centimes per dollar, from 80.60. Europe’s 17-nation currency
dropped 0.8 percent to $1.4259 and touched $1.4227, the lowest
level since Aug. 15, in a third day of decline. The yen
depreciated 0.4 percent to 76.93 per dollar.  Payrolls Report  The Dollar Index pared gains before a report tomorrow
forecast to show U.S. payroll growth slowed. Employers added
68,000 jobs in August, versus 117,000 in July, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists cut their projection
for job gains to 25,000, from a prior estimate of 50,000, citing
the slow pace of hiring in late July and August.  The ISM factory index was at 50.6 last month, compared with
50.9 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today.
Economists in a Bloomberg News survey projected the gauge would
drop to 48.5 in its first contraction in two years. Readings
greater than 50 signal expansion.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week the central
bank still has tools to stimulate a recovery that has been
weaker than forecast, while sticking to his view that growth
will pick up. He spoke at a conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .
At last year’s event, he foreshadowed the  Federal Open Market
Committee ’s second round of quantitative easing, the purchase of
$600 billion of Treasuries from November through June.  “If the data comes out of this nature, where it’s OK, then
I think it’s going to be hard to convince the majority of the
FOMC to go along with QE3,” Nomura’s Nordvig said, referring to
the ISM report.  Easing Fears  The Fed pledged at its Aug. 9 meeting to keep interest
rates at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent until at least
mid-2013. Policy makers meet next on Sept. 20.  The ISM reading “is a marginal decrease from July, but
certainly the fact that the index stayed in expansion territory
should help ease some of the fears of a renewed downturn in the
 U.S. economy ,” said  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency strategist
at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York. “There’s a number of negative
stories hitting the euro. The European manufacturing purchasing-
manager indexes have been soft, so the dollar is doing better
because of that.”  Biggest Loser  Brazil ’s real was the biggest loser among major currencies
after the nation’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to 12 percent from 12.5 percent, citing a
“substantial deterioration” in the global economy. Policy
makers had raised rates at each of previous five meetings, and
all 62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg projected no change in the
rate at yesterday’s meeting.  The real dropped 1.9 percent to 1.6197 per dollar.  The euro fell versus the franc and dollar as a European
manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing managers
fell to 49 in August from 50.4 in the prior month, London-based
Markit Economics said today. It was the weakest level in two
years. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Spanish bonds fell today as the nation sold 3.62 billion
euros ($5.2 billion) of five-year securities. The Treasury had
set a maximum target of 4 billion euros for the sale. Demand for
the securities was 1.76 times the amount sold, down from 2.85 in
July. The  European Central Bank  has been buying Spanish
securities to limit debt turmoil, which forced Ireland,  Greece 
and  Portugal  to seek rescues.  ‘Ongoing Drama’  “It’s the ongoing drama of  Europe , and that the Spanish
auction was not particularly highly subscribed today,” said
 Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac
Banking Corp. in New York. “They’re kicking the can down the
road; there’s no clear resolution to the issue.”  Gains in the franc came after the Swiss government pledged
yesterday to spend 870 million francs ($1.1 billion) as part of
an economic stimulus package to help counter the impact of the
currency’s strength. Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann
said the nation would have to learn to live with a strong franc,
eroding concern the government may intervene to weaken it.  The franc has gained the most this year against the
currencies of nine other developed nations tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, rising 12 percent. The
dollar has lost the most, falling 6.5 percent, while the euro
has appreciated 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  