-- 
Europe Manufacturing Shrinks More Than Estimated, Adding to Slowdown Signs

-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-09-01T08:57:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/europe-manufacturing-shrinks-more-than-initially-estimated-1-.html
Europe ’s manufacturing industry
contracted more than initially estimated in August, adding to
signs that the euro region’s recovery is faltering.  A manufacturing gauge based on a survey of purchasing
managers in the 17-nation euro region fell to 49 from 50.4 in
July, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s the
weakest in two years and below an initial estimate of 49.7
published on Aug. 23. A reading below 50 indicates contraction.  Europe’s economy is cooling as governments toughen spending
cuts to narrow their budget deficits, sapping consumers’
willingness to spend. European economic confidence slumped the
most in almost three years in August. In  China , manufacturing
growth remained near a 29-month low last month and manufacturing
in  South Korea  and Taiwan contracted, highlighting signs of a
worsening global slowdown.  “The euro zone is clearly struggling in the face of
tighter fiscal policy across the region,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “Slower global
growth has clearly hit foreign demand for goods and services
pretty hard.”  The euro slid to the lowest in almost two weeks against the
dollar on concerns over Europe’s ability to tackle the
sovereign-debt crisis. The euro traded at $1.4297 at 10:52 a.m.
in  Frankfurt , down 0.5 percent on the day.  China Slowdown  The euro region’s economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in
the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the previous three
months, the worst performance since a 2009 recession. In
 Germany , Europe’s largest economy, the recovery came to a near
halt in the April-June period as consumers trimmed spending.  German manufacturing growth slowed more than initially
forecast in August, with a gauge dropping to 50.9, Markit said.
In France and  Italy , output contracted for the first time since
June 2009 and September 2009, respectively.  Companies may struggle to maintain their sales growth as
the global economy shows increasing signs of a slowdown. An
index of China’s manufacturing stayed near to the borderline
between expansion and contraction in August, the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said today.  In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, manufacturing
probably shrank last month for the first time in two years,
raising the risk the slowing recovery may lose one of its
biggest sources of strength, according to a Bloomberg survey of
economists. The Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply
Management will release its report at 10 a.m. New York time.  In the U.K., which is not in the euro region, manufacturing
also contracted last month.  New Orders  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates, citing slower global demand and “sharply” declining
European consumption. K+S AG, Europe’s largest producer of
potash, last month forecast 2011 operating profit growth falling
short of analysts’ estimates.  A gauge of new orders in the euro region fell in August at
the fastest pace in more than two years, Markit said. New export
orders dropped for a second month, with Germany reporting the
biggest decline among all nations. In Spain, Ireland and  Greece ,
selling prices declined last month.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
Aug. 29 that the bank is reviewing its assessment of inflation
risks on slower growth. The euro-area economy may expand at a
“modest pace,” he said.  Today’s data “were even worse than the disappointing
earlier flash numbers, signaling an end to the manufacturing
recovery,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit, in
the note. “There is a growing risk that the  euro zone  could
slide back into recession in the second half of the year.”  Markit will publish final data for the composite and
services indicators on Sept. 5. It previously reported a drop in
the services gauge to 51.5 in August from 51.6 in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  