-- 
Ex-Primary Global Executive Fleishman’s Tapped Phone Calls Played for Jury

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-09-01T20:47:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ex-primary-global-executive-fleishman-s-tapped-phone-calls-played-for-jury.html
The jury at the  insider-trading 
conspiracy trial of former Primary Global Research LLC executive
James Fleishman heard the defendant’s voice for the first time
on a secretly recorded phone call made by a cooperating witness.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara ,  California , is charged with two
counts of conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors say was an
scheme to pass tips from technology company employees, acting as
consultants, to hedge-fund managers. As a salesman for Primary
Global, Fleishman put consultants in touch with investors. He
faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  Karl Motey, 47, an independent consultant who has pleaded
guilty to insider trading and is cooperating with the U.S., said
he called Fleishman in May 2009 claiming he was starting a hedge
fund and wanted to use Primary Global’s services.  “You’re accessing our networking of contacts to get
information from them, you know kind of to prove or disprove
your model,” Fleishman can be heard saying on the call.
“Talking to them, uh, so they can be a resources for you.”  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View , California, links
investors with industry experts at public companies. In his
position as a sales manager, Fleishman was responsible for
attracting new clients and arranging for fund managers to speak
to consultants, the U.S. said.  Motey asked Fleishman if he could get specific information
about technology companies, not just industry trends.  ‘It Depends’  “It depends who you’re talking to,” Fleishman said. “In
 Taiwan , who are seeing stuff on a day-to-day basis that can say
‘Hey, here’s how things are kind of shaping up for June.’”  Motey told jurors he was surprised by Fleishman’s statement
because late May or early June is a period just before companies
issue quarterly earnings.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  David Leibowitz  asked Motey what he
understood Fleishman to be saying.  “I took it to mean that they had people who’d be able to
give me daily updates on a particular company, even on a day-to-
day basis,” Motey said.  Fleishman also said consultants last names weren’t given
out to clients or their contact information.  “You just try to provide anonymity to some degree for the
experts,” Fleishman said.  “That’s just to protect them from investor relations?”
Motey said.  ‘Us and Them’  “Yeah, because the relationship we have is between us and
them,” Fleishman replied.  Leibowitz asked Motey what he understood Fleishman to mean.  “What I meant was in my experience, investor relations
keeps a very tight control over who gets to talk and what
message gets out,” he said. “Investor relations would not want
employees to be talking to investors.”  Jurors also heard a call Motey recorded later in May 2009,
in which he had his first consultation with a  Marvell Technology
Group Ltd. (MRVL)  employee whom Primary Global described as a director
of the company’s business development and marketing.  In the call, the consultant can be heard telling Motey his
revenue expectations for Marvell as well as the average gross
margin for his business unit.  Leibowitz asked Motey what his reaction was to hearing the
information.  ‘Very Surprised’  “I was very surprised,” Motey testified. “That’s not a
public number for the company as far as I knew at the time.”  Jay Nelson, one of Fleishman’s lawyers, told jurors
yesterday that his client wasn’t aware of any wrongdoing at the
company and hadn’t committed any crimes. Nelson said that of the
15,000 experts in the network, only a handful were “rogue.”
Cooperating witnesses were testifying for the prosecution in a
bid to win leniency from the court, he said.  Thirteen people, including 12 who pleaded guilty, have
been convicted in the crackdown by  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara ,.  Testimony continues today before U.S. District Court Judge
Jed Rakoff.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  