-- 
Mexico Needs Better Strategy in War Against Drug Cartels: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/mexico-needs-a-better-strategy-in-the-war-against-its-drug-cartels-view.html
The Aug. 25 attack on a casino in
Monterrey,  Mexico , might have been the deadliest massacre in the
government’s five-year war against drug traffickers. It is
unlikely to be the last.  More than 50 people were killed when a group of armed men
entered the Casino Royale at about 3 p.m., ordered everyone to
leave, doused the building with gasoline and set it ablaze. The
attack took less than three minutes.  It’s not certain which of Mexico’s drug cartels was
responsible, although it hardly matters. Immediately after the
attack, Mexican President Felipe Calderon -- who until now had
rejected characterizations of his country’s endemic drug
violence as terrorism -- called it “an act of terror and
barbarity,” and those responsible, “true terrorists.”  Calderon declared war on the cartels in January 2007. Had
he failed to act then, the drug lords’ power and influence would
have grown big enough to threaten the Mexican state. Since the
war began, as many as  40,000 Mexicans  have been killed. But
whichever way the government characterizes those responsible --
as terrorists, criminals or miscreants, -- it is more important
that Mexicans and their U.S. neighbors take a step back,
understand the nature of Mexico’s war against the drug gangs and
take appropriate measures to win it.  Foreign analysts sometimes argue that Mexico’s drug war is
a type of insurgency, and then compare it to  Colombia ’s. In
fact, it is fundamentally different. The cartels are criminal
gangs whose only goal is to run their businesses and take over
as much of the lucrative narcotics trade as possible. Unlike the
“narco-guerrillas” in Colombia, they have no political agenda,
are not allied with militant groups that do, and have shown no
ambition to control territory or build a government structure in
areas where they operate.  Many Mexicans believe that the U.S. is responsible for the
rise of the drug cartels. That is also wrong. Although Calderon
is probably the most pro-American president in Mexico’s history,
he is still willing to blame the U.S., at least partly, for
Mexico’s troubles. Within hours of the attack, while
acknowledging that the two countries are “neighbors,” “allies”
and “friends,” Calderon said the U.S. must stop the
“indiscriminate” sale of assault weapons to Mexican gangs and
claimed that “the economic power and firepower of the criminal
organizations operating in Mexico and  Latin America  come from
this endless demand for drugs in the  United States .” The
Americans, he said, “share responsibility.”  It is true that,  according to some estimates , 70 percent of
the weapons used by Mexican drug gangs are smuggled across the
American border and that the U.S. must do much more to stop the
illegal gun trade. It is also true that American demand for
narcotics fuels Mexico’s drug business. But if easy access to
guns were the cause of Mexico’s predicament, then Texas would be
as lawless as Chihuahua. If a border with the U.S. drug market
were the problem, then  Canada  would also be fighting such gangs.  So if Mexico’s internal strife is not an insurgency and not
primarily the U.S.’s fault, what is it? One possibility is that
it is the result of decades-long corrupt and incompetent
government, popular contempt for the rule of law, a weak civil
society and a growing gap between rich and poor. These
conditions created a state that is unable to enforce its laws,
provide services or opportunities for its poorer citizens, or
create a sense of community across regional or class boundaries.
Seen this way, the current drug violence might be a symptom of
more fundamental problems afflicting Mexican society.  So far, Calderon has relied exclusively on the Mexican army
and a reformed police force to defeat the cartels. The U.S. has
supported this strategy by significantly increasing cooperation
with Mexican law-enforcement authorities. For fiscal year 2012,
the Obama administration has requested almost $329 million in
assistance for Mexico, about 80 percent of which will go to the
police or the armed forces. But as Calderon enters his last year
in office, victory over the cartels is as elusive as ever.  Training and equipping Mexico’s security services are vital
to defeating the drug gangs. But internal conflicts are rarely
won by military means alone. The Mexican government also needs
to establish the rule of law, strengthen social cohesion, act
against corruption, and provide decent education and economic
opportunities for Mexico’s poor.  Calderon deserves credit for identifying the cartels as a
threat to Mexico’s future. He has a final chance to make
progress in the drug war and lay a foundation that his successor
can build on. He should do so by putting Mexico on the path
toward a more just and law-abiding society.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 