-- 
Expect Obama Speech to Yield Lots of Talk, No Action: Ezra Klein

-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/expect-obama-s-jobs-speech-to-yield-lots-of-talk-no-action-ezra-klein.html
I’ve stopped pretending that the
president’s jobs speech scheduled for next week is going to
matter. I’m tired of speculating about what it will contain and
whether its proposals will be big or small, bold or timid.  Here is what will actually happen: President  Barack Obama 
will give a speech. It will include a mixture of ideas the
administration has pushed for some time (extending the payroll
tax cut, investing in infrastructure, passing trade agreements)
and some modest new additions (a tax cut for companies that hire
new workers, for example). Relatively few people will tune in to
the speech; of those who do, most will be either committed Obama
supporters or equally committed detractors.  Congressional Republicans will be among those paying
attention. The fantasy version of their role can be found in
Aaron Sorkin dramas and liberal op-ed columns, in which Obama’s
rhetoric stirs the hearts of some while his rallying of the
people inspires fear in the others. Republicans then agree to
meet with Obama and work out a compromise plan. In some versions
of the fantasy, the result is a big compromise that includes
 deficit reduction  and revenue-raising  tax reform . At some point
in the drama, a weaselly political adviser warns his boss that
voting for the deal could cost him his job. “So what?” the
boss snarls. “It’s better to be an ex-congressman than an
irresponsible congressman.”  Boehner’s Rebuttal  A more realistic script, however, has already been written.
It takes the form of a  news release  issued by House Speaker  John Boehner ’s office on Aug. 17. All you really need to know is the
title: “Statement on Announcement of President Obama’s Upcoming
Speech on Jobs.”  Consider that for a moment: Where else but Washington would
you see a news release responding to an event that hasn’t
occurred and statements that haven’t been uttered?  “In the third year of his term,” the news release states,
“Americans are still asking President Obama, ‘Where are the
Jobs?’ That’s why Republicans, in contrast to the Democrats who
run the White House and Senate, have made creating a better
environment for  job creation  our number one focus.” Etc. and so
on.  After Boehner actually hears the speech, he’ll be able to
use some of its details to hammer it further into the ground.
Then he’ll probably point to the House Republicans’ initiative
of the week, an assault on “job-killing” regulations, as an
alternative to anything Obama proposes. For the record, I’m not
much of a fan of job-killing regulations either. But we have 9
percent unemployment because the global financial system
collapsed, not because federal inspectors are overly concerned
about coal particulates in the air.  Going Nowhere  Obama’s speech will achieve nothing. It will go nowhere
because it has nowhere to go. A speech can rally the base, and
maybe even temporarily change the topic in the news. But it
can’t change the fundamental fact of politics right now, which
is that the two parties disagree on the most profound question
in  Washington . It’s not: How do we fix the economy? It is: Who
should win the next election?  So long as Republicans and Democrats disagree on that,
there will be no significant cooperation on substantive issues.
Boehner simply will not cut off his party’s candidates at the
knees, especially its presidential contenders, by handing Obama
a major economic accomplishment. Because he controls the  House
of Representatives , that means Obama -- and, by extension, the
U.S. -- is not going to get a major economic accomplishment.  Almost everyone in Washington understands this. The
interest in the president’s speech is just a function of the
fact that people who discuss politics and policy for a living
need to seem like we’re doing something through the long summer
months. The administration needs to look like it’s acting to
create jobs, the media need to appear to be reporting news, the
pundits need to generate opinions about it all.  This is the part of the column where, as a pundit, I lay
out my three-point, politically implausible plan to turn the
situation around. This is where I tell the president to fight
harder, or take his message directly to the people, or fire up
the lethargic Obama for America organization. This is where I
remind the Republicans that they supported tax cuts as stimulus
all through the last decade and even into 2009; where I beg them
to put country before party; where I warn them that everything
they are doing unto the Democrats today will be done unto them
tomorrow. This is where I summon history to show how FDR or
Reagan or Truman broke a similar logjam.  But such exhortations -- and I am guilty of writing
variations on these many times over -- are pointless today. The
facts are what they are. And what they are is depressing and
unlikely to change.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 