-- 
Spain, Italy Auctions Highlight Dependence on ECB Purchases

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-09-01T14:38:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/falling-costs-at-bond-sales-in-spain-italy-show-dependence-on-ecb-buying.html
     Sept. 1 (Bloomberg) -- Spain  and Italy sold bonds this week
at lower yields than previous auctions, suggesting record debt
purchases by the  European Central Bank  in the secondary market
have helped to contain the nations’ borrowing costs.  Spain auctioned five-year securities today at an average
yield 38 basis points below those sold at the previous auction
on July 7. Investors bid for 1.76 times the amount on offer,
down from 2.85 times. Italy sold 10-year debt yesterday at 5.22
percent, compared with 5.77 percent on July 28. Demand dropped
to 1.27 times from 1.38. The ECB’s mandate prevents it from
buying bonds directly from governments at auctions, so it
purchases them in the so-called aftermarket.  “It’s the ECB that virtually sets these borrowing costs
for them, and not the market,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-
income strategist at WestLB AG in London. “Demand for these
bonds remains weak. The ECB has been absolutely crucial in
bringing Italian and Spanish yields down, enabling these
countries to fund themselves at substantially lower rates than
in the previous auctions.”  The ECB began buying Spanish and Italian  government bonds 
on Aug. 8 to stop the debt crisis from spreading to the euro-
region’s third- and fourth-biggest economies. The purchases
brought the nations’ 10-year bond yields down to about 5 percent
from euro-era records, even as  Europe ’s leaders disagreed over
how to contain the financial-market turmoil.  Record Buying  Europe’s central bank spent a record 22 billion euros ($31.4
billion) in the week ended Aug. 12 as it bought bonds issued by
 Italy  and Spain. The ECB settled purchases of 21 billion euros
in the following two weeks, bringing its three-week total to the
most since it set up the Securities Market Program in May 2010
to stabilize markets roiled by the debt crisis.  In addition to its sale of 3.75 billion euros of bonds due
in March 2022, Italy also auctioned a combined 3.985 billion
euros of bonds maturing in 2014 and 2018.  Spain sold 3.62 billion euros of five-year bonds, below its
maximum target of 4 billion. The average yield was 4.489
percent, compared with 4.871 percent on July 7, the previous
time it auctioned debt maturing in 2016. Demand dropped to 1.76
times the amount sold, from 2.85 in July.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  wrote to Italian Prime
Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  in the first week of August demanding
more measures to curb the deficit in return for buying the
country’s bonds. To win ECB support, Italian politicians
approved the second austerity package in a month on Aug. 12,
aiming to balance the budget in 2013.  ‘Very Dependent’  Pressure from his alliance partners later forced Berlusconi
to agree to overhaul the 45 billion-euro austerity plan,
dropping a tax on the highest earners and limiting funding cuts
to regional governments.  “Peripheral countries are very dependent on the ECB’s bond
purchases to keep their yields down, and they know it,” said
 Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-rate strategy at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in  London . “Any signs that
show lack of political will to tackle the fiscal problems will
not go down well with the market.”  Italy had 1.6 trillion euros of debt outstanding at the end
of last year, according to its  debt management office , the most
of any European nation. The ECB may have to buy as much as 5
percent of that amount over about 30 weeks to keep borrowing
costs at 5 percent, according to Kornelius Purps, a strategist
at UniCredit SpA in Munich.  Italian 10-year bond yields have climbed for nine straight
days, rising five basis points to 5.18 percent before ECB’s
purchases helped to reduce the yields to 5.15 percent as of 3:37
p.m. in London. They reached a euro-era record of 6.40 percent
on Aug. 5, before sliding more than a percentage point to 5.02
percent in the five trading days after the ECB began buying.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year Spanish
notes instead of benchmark German bunds has narrowed to 286
basis points from a euro-era record of 418 basis points Aug. 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  