-- 
FDA Accord With Drugmakers Raises User Fees 6% to Renew Law

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-09-01T19:02:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/fda-accord-with-drugmakers-raises-user-fees-6-in-law-renewal.html
Drugmakers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)   agreed  with regulators on a 6 percent increase
in review fees as part of reauthorizing the drug-approval
process through fiscal 2017.  The deal, disclosed in part today, would renew for five
years a federal law funding  Food and Drug Administration 
evaluations of brand-name drugs. Congress must approve the
accord before the law expires on Sept. 30, 2012.  The increase is expected to add $40.4 million to user-fee
revenue in fiscal 2012, bringing the fiscal 2013 total to $712.8
million,  Karen Riley , a spokeswoman for the FDA, said in an e-
mail. The agency in turn will have to meet with companies in the
midst of reviews to raise concerns and ensure that evaluations
are carried out in a timely way.  The agreement “should allow more timely access to safe and
effective new medicines,” said David Wheadon, senior vice
president for scientific and regulatory affairs at lobbying
group the  Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America ,
in a statement.  Drugmakers fund about 60 percent of the cost of agency
reviews, according to the FDA. The agreement includes additional
review time for the agency to fit in extra meetings, extending
the window for reviews after submitting applications to eight
months from six months, and 10-month periods to 12 months.  The FDA and the industry also agreed to meet 12 days before
the agency convenes advisory panels that evaluate drugmaker
applications, giving companies time to gather needed data,
according to the draft.  Third-Party Reviews  The agreement includes a third-party review of whether the
FDA is meeting drug-review goals, according to the draft.  Drug safety also will be strengthened through
standardization of the requirements for risk strategies the FDA
mandates of some medicines and support for the use of an online
drug safety tracking system to assess post-market risks, Wheadon
said.  The last time user fees were reauthorized in 2007, Congress
gave the FDA new responsibilities to promote drug safety
including requiring risk strategies for some drugs, which caused
the agency to slow its review process.  ‘Restoring’ Review Performance  Jim Greenwood, president of the  Biotechnology Industry
Organization , a lobbying group in Washington for biologic
drugmakers, said in a statement the agreement “would restore
FDA’s review performance.”  Companies such as New York-based Pfizer and  Eli Lilly  of
Indianapolis have been discussing with the FDA a user-fee
renewal since July 2010. Medical-device companies such as  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  are in separate
talks on fees they pay the agency for product reviews.  The device industry rejected the agency’s proposal to more
than double fees to $770 million across five years from $295
million, according to meeting minutes. Manufacturers are
insisting on a safeguard against 11th-hour requests from
regulators that the industry says delay approvals, according to
Steve Ubl, president of the Advanced Medical Technology
Association in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 