-- 
Fed’s Duke Says U.S. Should Promote Foreclosed Home Rentals to Aid Economy

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:45:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/fed-s-duke-says-u-s-should-promote-foreclosed-home-rentals-to-aid-economy.html
Federal Reserve Governor Elizabeth Duke called for government efforts to promote the rental of
foreclosed homes, saying a recovery in the U.S. housing market
hinges on clearing the backlog of such properties.  “We need to deal with the unprecedented number of loans in
or still entering the foreclosure pipeline, the disposition of
properties acquired through foreclosure, and the effect of a
high percentage of distressed sales on  home prices ,” Duke said
in a speech today in Washington. “We, as a nation, currently
have a housing market that is so severely out of balance that it
is hampering our economic recovery.”  Duke threw her support behind an initiative of  Fannie Mae ,
Freddie Mac and the  Federal Housing Administration , which last
month issued a joint public appeal for suggestions on managing
their inventory of foreclosed homes and turning many into rental
units. Fannie and Freddie, government-sponsored enterprises, own
about a third of the country’s nearly 800,000 foreclosed
properties.  “The weak demand in the owner-occupied housing market and
the relatively high demand in the rental housing market suggest
that transitioning some REO properties to rental housing might
benefit both markets,” Duke said, referring to real estate
owned by lenders.  “Achieving a cost-effective program may require obtaining
a critical mass of properties -- perhaps a couple hundred or
more -- within a limited geographic area,” she said. Because of
the large foreclosure holdings of the GSEs, the government could
“achieve the necessary scale in a number of markets.”  U.S. Outlook  Duke didn’t comment on the near-term U.S. economic outlook
or monetary policy in her remarks at a housing conference
sponsored by the Fed Board of Governors.  U.S. stocks swung between gains and losses, after the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.9 percent earlier, as a
report showing growth in manufacturing bolstered optimism in the
economy. The  S&P 500  rose less than 0.1 percent to 1,219.69 at
12:34 p.m. in  New York .  Duke said in response to audience questions that efforts to
mitigate “frictions” that are preventing the refinancing of
many mortgages wouldn’t harm the market for mortgage-backed
securities.  “I don’t view changing that dynamic as being harmful to
the markets,” she said.  Economy Slowing  Home-loan rates fell two weeks ago to the lowest in Freddie
Mac records dating to 1971 amid concern that the  U.S. economy  is
slowing. The low borrowing costs have done little to lift the
residential real estate market, which is weighed down by rising
foreclosures, tighter lending standards and a jobless rate that
exceeds 9 percent.  The rate for a 30-year fixed loan remained at 4.22 percent
in the week ended today,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The
average 15-year rate decreased to 3.39 percent from 3.44
percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  Mortgage applications dropped 9.6 percent last week, the
biggest weekly decline since January, a Mortgage Bankers
Association index showed yesterday. The group’s refinancing
gauge fell 12 percent, while a measure of purchases rose 0.9
percent from the lowest level since December 1996.  “In many markets, house prices have fallen to such an
extent that better recoveries may result from renting properties
rather than selling them,” Duke said at a housing conference
sponsored by the Fed Board of Directors.  Narrow Best Interest  “In other markets, converting REO properties to rentals
may not be in the narrow best interest of financial institutions
or mortgage investors but may be in the best interest of local
communities,” she said. “For these markets, it may be useful
to consider the possible role of new incentives and, if so, what
form those incentives might take.”  U.S.  house prices  decreased in the year ended in June at a
slower pace than in the prior month, a sign the market may be
stabilizing. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
cities fell 4.5 percent from June 2010, after a 4.6 percent drop
in the 12 months ended May that was the biggest since 2009,
according to a release this week.  Home prices remain 32 percent below their peak level in
July of 2006, according to the index.  New Home Sales  The census bureau reported that builders were selling new
homes at a pace of 298,000 houses a year in July. The level of
sales is little above the 48-year low of 278,000 reported in
August 2010, and 79 percent below the peak of 1.4 million sales
in July 2005.  Duke said that Fed supervisors may need to reconsider their
usual advice that financial institutions sell their foreclosed
properties.  “Conditions are unusual enough that it might also make
economic sense to clarify existing expectations to recognize
that in some cases converting a portion of residential REO to
rental may be a reasonable option for financial institutions,”
she said.  Duke, 59, was appointed to the Fed board by President
 George W. Bush . Before that she was executive vice president and
chief operating officer at TowneBank, a Virginia-based community
bank. She is also a former chairman of the  American Bankers
Association .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  