-- 
Finns Brace for ‘Corrective’ Fallout of UPM, Nokia Job Cuts

-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o   a n d   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-09-01T05:35:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/finland-braces-for-corrective-stretch-as-upm-nokia-cut-jobs-to-survive.html
Finland’s latest spate of job cuts
by companies from  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  to papermaker  UPM-Kymmene Oyj (UPM1V) 
threatens to sap economic growth and drain public finances in
one of the euro area’s six AAA rated members.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said yesterday Finland
“faces challenges in creating profitable companies,” after
UPM, the country’s second-biggest papermaker, announced it will
cut 1,170 European jobs. That followed an April announcement
from mobile-phone maker Nokia, based outside Helsinki in Espoo,
that it will fire 4,000 workers worldwide. Stockholm-based
Nordea Bank AB, which is Finland’s biggest lender, said this
week it will cut about 500 jobs there.  “It appears companies don’t really want to invest here,
especially since cost pressures have increased,” Tiina Helenius, Helsinki-based chief economist at Svenska
Handelsbanken AB, said by phone yesterday. “Companies are
downsizing early” as demand grows less certain, she said.  Finland, which relies on exports for about 40 percent of
its economic output, may face a similar fate to junk-rated
 Portugal  in the next decade unless it creates more profitable
industries and shores up its public finances, according to
Katainen. As economic expansion wanes, Finns need to brace for
“hard, corrective” measures to ensure budgets don’t stay in
deficit, he said. The Nordic economy’s growth will slow to 1.6
percent next year from 3.5 percent in 2011, Nordea estimates.  Worst After  Greece   Finnish 10-year government bond yields rose two basis
points to 2.68 percent at 8:21 a.m. in Helsinki. The country’s
benchmark stock index, this year’s second-worst performer in the
developed world after Greece’s ASE Index, has lost 25 percent
since the beginning of January.  Finnish industry is battling against a number of obstacles,
according to UPM Chief Executive Officer Jussi Pesonen.  “Finland faces challenges in raw materials pricing,
energy, transportation and labor costs,” he said in an
interview after presenting the job cuts. Staying competitive is
hard because “demand is declining, slowly, especially in
newsprint and fine paper,” he said.  The northernmost euro member is struggling to adapt its
biggest industries to global shifts such as cheaper production
in emerging markets and rising commodity costs.  Wooden Legs  Finland’s $255 billion economy, home to Europe’s two
biggest papermakers,  Stora Enso Oyj (STERV)  and UPM, was built on its
forests. Since the 1960s, the country’s pulp industry has
languished as  South America  and  Asia  produce cheaper timber.
Forestry’s share of the economy dropped to 2.4 percent in 2009
from twice that in the late 1970s. It employed 2 percent of the
workforce in 2009, from almost 5 percent four decades ago,
government data show.  Unemployment will be 7.5 percent in 2012, while hourly
wages will rise 2.8 percent from 2.4 percent in 2011, Nordea
estimates. Faster pay growth will accompany a slowdown in
exports, as sales abroad increase 2.9 percent this year after
growing 6.4 percent in 2011, the bank estimates.  “Finland’s economic prospects have grown bleaker,” Nordea
said in a report published yesterday. Slower growth outlooks in
 Germany ,  Sweden  and the U.S. “signal that Finnish exports will
be much weaker than previously anticipated,” the bank said.  Companies are likely to delay planned investment, while
declining consumer confidence will stall both private spending
and household investment, according to the Stockholm-based bank.  Aging Population  “Job cuts are not good for sentiment,” Helenius at
Handelsbanken said. “The pressure to fix the balance of public
finances amid the structural pressures of the aging population
is becoming more acute.”  Finland, lumbered with the fastest aging population in
 Europe , has missed opportunities to raise the  retirement age 
from 63, while public finances face a sustainability gap
equivalent to 6 percent of gross domestic product, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in September last year.  Efforts by Former Prime Minister Matti Vanhanen to push
back the retirement age in 2009 were abandoned following public
protests. Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen has ruled out such
pension reform. Katainen’s six-party coalition, formed two
months after April elections, may face hurdles in agreeing to
legislative changes needed to jumpstart growth, Helenius said.  “The government doesn’t seem to be finding a consensus
over long-term structural changes,” Helenius said. “Companies
are worried the government will be forced to take sudden,
possibly less optimal, decisions in crisis conditions.”  UPM will close two publication paper mills in  Finland  and
Germany as well as some paper machines to reduce capacity. The
roughly 1,170 jobs will be cut by the end of 2011 as the mills
in Albbruck and Myllykoski are shuttered, the company said
yesterday.  The cuts “would ensure the efficient use of our remaining
capacity,” Pesonen said yesterday. “However, this plan would
not solve the cost challenges of the industry.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  