-- 
Firefighter Cancer Risk Seen From World Trade Center Exposure in Study

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-09-01T22:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/firefighters-seen-at-cancer-risk-from-world-trade-center-exposure-in-study.html
Madeline Wiebicke is convinced the
blood cancer that killed her husband Randy in March came from
his work as a firefighter at the World Trade Center on Sept. 11,
2001, and during the cleanup after that day’s terrorist attack.  A study released in The Lancet, a U.K.-based medical
journal, suggests her suspicions may be correct. The report
found that firefighters who responded to the disaster were 19
percent more likely to have cancer in the 7 years that followed
the attacks than those who weren’t there.  The research is the first to tie a higher cancer risk to
first responders. It spurred calls for a review of a law that
fails to include cancer in providing health coverage for Sept.
11 victims. The decision not to include the disease in the law,
effective July 1, followed a review by the National Institute
for Occupational Safety and Health this year that found there
was too little evidence to provide a definitive link.  “My husband’s firehouse was right there, and they were
down there for days at the beginning,” said Wiebicke, 51, whose
husband developed multiple myeloma about two years ago. “In the
beginning, they didn’t even have masks.”  The study’s finding isn’t a surprise, she said in a
telephone interview. When she visited her husband in the
hospital over a six months period, “I just saw so many cops and
firefighters being treated for blood cancers.”  The research involved 9,853 firefighters overall, and was
carried out by researchers from Albert Einstein College of
Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, both in the Bronx, and
the bureau of  health services  for the Fire Department of the
City of New York.  50,000 Exposed  Over 50,000 people, including firefighters, police and
construction workers, were exposed to chemicals at the site
while working to rescue survivors, recover the dead and clean
the site or surrounding buildings, wrote James Melius, an
administrator for the  New York State Laborers’ Health Fund , in
an accompanying editorial. Few people had the intense and
lengthy exposure of firefighters, he wrote.  “We don’t know what’s going to happen in the future to
these people, whether there might be a delayed onset of disease
such as cancer,” Melius said in a telephone interview.  The study looked at the diagnoses and deaths of
firefighters through Sept. 11, 2008, a period that included 27
cancer deaths, said  David Prezant , a study author and the chief
medical officer of the Fire Department of  New York City , in a
conference call with reporters.  Responders Compensation  On Jan. 2, President  Barack Obama  signed legislation to
help rescuers, cleanup crews and other people suffering from
ailments linked to the World Trade Center wreckage. As yet,
there isn’t any compensation for firefighters who get cancer
because of toxic exposure, Melius said.  U.S. Senator  Tom Coburn  blocked the legislation in December
2010, citing cost concerns. He and other Senate Republicans
dropped their opposition to the bill when it was cut to $4.3
billion from the initial $6.2 billion, and was scheduled to
close in 2016 instead of 2031.  Slower-growing cancers like mesothelioma may not be evident
by then, Melius said. “The federal government needs to
seriously consider adding cancer to the list of covered
conditions,” he said.  Cancer can take a big financial toll on families because
those who become sick, and often their family caregivers, can’t
work and treatment is expensive, he said.  Fred Blosser, a spokesman for the National Institute for
Occupational Safety and Health said the agency will conduct a
second review in “early- to mid-2012.”  Second Review  “We will incorporate new peer-reviewed studies in that
review, including the Lancet article,” Blosser said in a
telephone interview. If there’s enough evidence to suggest a
cancer link, firefighters and other first responders can get
treatment at no charge to them, he said.  There were up to 38 excess cases of cancer in the 7 year
follow-up of the firefighters, the study’s authors reported.
Longer studies will be needed to continue to assess
firefighters’ risk, the department’s Prezant said.  The study excluded firefighters who were older than 60 on
Sept. 11, and anyone with a previous diagnosis of cancer. No
specific association for any type of cancer was found.  The chemicals that the firefighters were exposed to,
including asbestos, biphenyls and dioxins, are known to cause
blood cancers and mesothelioma, so doctors will continue to
monitor for those illnesses, Prezant said in a conference call.  “Although we found an increase in all cancers in
firefighters, and we can only comment on them since their
exposure is unique, it’s not an epidemic,” Prezant said. “The
most important thing to do is enroll in active cancer prevention
and screening programs, which we have as part of our medical
monitoring program.”  The Wiebicke Family  Randy Wiebicke was a lieutenant at Ladder 1. When he got
sick, Wiebicke, a  real estate agent  and mother of three, said
she was shuttled to and from appointments by other firefighters.
She’s received no financial aid, even though her husband’s death 
was considered by the fire department to be incurred in the 
line-of-duty, she said.  “There are lots of medical bills out there,” she said.
“He was in the hospital for 4 months at the end.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 