-- 
France May Revoke Shale Oil Permits in October, Minister Says

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-09-01T15:37:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/france-may-revoke-shale-oil-permits-in-october-minister-says.html
France  may quash permits to explore
for oil and natural gas in shale under the country’s hydraulic
fracturing ban as soon as next month, according to Environment
Minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet.  Oil and gas companies that were planning to explore for
shale hydrocarbons under previously granted licenses have until
Sept. 13 to inform the government whether they plan to use the
technique known as fracking, the minister said in an interview
at a conference outside Paris.  “After that we have one month to decide the fate of the
permits,” she said. “If a company says it’s planning to use
hydraulic fracturing, their permit will be canceled. It’s the
law.”  France’s fracking ban, the first in the world, took effect
in July and could lead to fines and imprisonment if a company is
found to be using the technique. The method, widely used in
 North America , uses a mixture of water, sand and chemicals
injected under high pressure to break dense rock to release
trapped oil and gas.  Some government ministers and industry representatives have
said fracking is the only method available to extract
hydrocarbons from the rock. Green groups and politicians led
protests across France, saying the method could cause
environmental damage.  During discussions by lawmakers drafting the bill,
Kosciusko-Morizet warned of possible legal challenges from
energy companies that had already obtained the permits and were
planning shale probes.  “I can’t comment on what their reaction will be,” she
said today.  The French energy ministry has granted permits to companies
including  Total SA (FP) ,  Vermilion Energy Inc. (VET) ,  Toreador Resources
Corp. (TRGL)  and Schuepbach Energy LLC for shale oil and gas
exploration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  