-- 
Yen Drops Against Major Counterparts as Gains in Shares Curb Refuge Demand

-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-09-01T07:37:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/franc-yen-maintain-gains-on-concern-global-economic-recovery-is-slowing.html
The yen fell against all but one of
its major peers, sliding to an almost one-week low against the
dollar, as Chinese manufacturing rose in line with forecasts and
gains in stocks sapped demand for the safest assets.  Japan ’s currency also snapped a two-day advance versus the
euro after a government report showed investors in the nation
last week made their largest net purchase of overseas stocks in
almost a year. The Swiss franc gained versus most of its major
peers even after a report showed the economy expanded at the
weakest quarterly pace since emerging from a 2009 slump. The
euro slid after economic growth in  Germany  slowed in the second
quarter as household spending slumped.  “We’re seeing a bit of a relief rally in risky assets and
that undermines the yen,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “In
terms of the franc, the euro-zone debt crisis means flows are
still fundamentally supportive of the Swissie, which means it
has potential for further upside.”  The yen weakened 0.4 percent to 76.94 per dollar at 8:13
a.m. in  London , after reaching 77.24, the weakest intraday level
since Aug. 26. It declined less than 0.1 percent to 110.20 per
euro.  The shared European currency weakened 0.3 percent to
$1.4325. Switzerland’s franc was little changed at 1.1581 per
euro and appreciated 0.3 percent to 80.81 centimes to the
dollar.  Stocks Rise  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of regional shares rose for a
sixth day, adding 0.5 percent, heading for its longest streak of
gains since January. The measure slumped 8.6 percent last month,
the most since May 2010, amid concern global economic growth is
slowing as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis worsens and U.S.
economic growth shows signs of faltering.  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index for manufacturing rose
to 50.9 in August, from July’s 29-month low of 50.7, the  China 
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said in a statement
today. That compared with the median estimate of 51 in a
Bloomberg News survey of economists. A reading above 50
indicates an expansion.  Japanese investors bought overseas stocks valued at 146.3
billion yen more than they sold in the week ended Aug. 26, data
from the Ministry of Finance showed today. That’s the most since
last September.  Aussie Dollar  Australia’s dollar advanced versus most of its major peers
after the country’s Bureau of Statistics said July retail sales
advanced 0.5 percent after declining 0.1 percent in June,
curbing prospects the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower its
benchmark  interest rate . The so-called Aussie rose to 82.33 yen
from 82.08 yesterday, and earlier reached 82.67, the strongest
since Aug. 5. It bought $1.0705 from $1.0707 yesterday.  “When the market moves to price in a sensible track for
the RBA, which is policy being unchanged for a long period, that
will boost the Aussie dollar,” said  Matthew Johnson , a
strategist at UBS AG in Sydney.  Declines in the dollar were limited on speculation the
slowdown in the  U.S. economy  is easing. “The market has priced
in the downside risk to the U.S. economy too much,” said  Koji Fukaya , chief currency strategist in  Tokyo  at Credit Suisse
Group AG. “My view on the dollar is neutral, and it won’t be a
surprise even if it rises.”  The dollar has appreciated 0.8 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency indexes,
which tracks 10 developed-nation currencies.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will address a
Federal Reserve advisory group later today for discussions on
the economy and jobs, the Treasury department said in an e-
mailed statement.  Geithner and the group of 12 bank chief executives
representing each of the Fed’s districts will discuss the “next
steps on financial reform implementation,” according to the
statement. Fed policy makers will meet on Sept. 20 to more fully
debate their options at a two-day meeting that was originally
scheduled to last one day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  