-- 
Franc Strengthens on Bets SNB Will Refrain From Further Curbing Measures

-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   E d   B a l l a r d
-- 
2011-09-01T15:38:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/franc-strengthens-on-bets-snb-will-refrain-from-further-curbing-measures.html
Switzerland’s franc rose for a
second day against all its major counterparts amid speculation
the central bank will refrain from further measures to curb the
currency’s advance.  The currency climbed to a one-week high against the euro
after a European report showed manufacturing in the 17-nation
region shrank more than initially estimated, boosting demand for
safer assets. The Swiss government pledged yesterday to spend
870 million francs ($1.09 billion) on an economic stimulus
package to help counter the impact of the currency’s “massive
overvaluation.”  “The market appears to be testing the resolve of the  Swiss
National Bank  to see if they are going to do more,” said
 Geoffrey Yu , a currency strategist at UBS AG in London. “Weak
data out of the  euro zone  also supports demand for the franc.”  The Swiss currency appreciated 2 percent versus the euro to
1.14089 at 4:14 p.m. in London, after earlier rising to 1.13317,
the strongest level since Aug. 23. The currency climbed 1.2
percent to 79.65 centimes versus the dollar.  The franc surged 2.2 percent against the euro yesterday as
the Swiss National Bank refrained from announcing new steps to
curb its gains, after intervening or referring to the currency’s
strength on the first three Wednesdays of August.  The central bank has sought to limit the franc’s record-
breaking rally by cutting  interest rates  to zero last month, and
reducing so-called sight deposits, money that banks can convert
immediately to cash, almost sevenfold.  Stimulus Package  Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said yesterday he
doesn’t expect the franc to weaken soon after the government
unveiled the stimulus package to support tourism and exports.  The franc has strengthened 11 percent this year, making it
the best performer among a basket of 10 major currencies,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  A gauge of European manufacturing based on a survey of
purchasing managers in the euro region fell to 49 from 50.4 in
July, Markit Economics said. That’s below an initial estimate of
49.7 published on Aug. 23.  Switzerland ’s bonds rose after a report showed the nation’s
economic growth slowed last quarter to the weakest since the
nation emerged from recession in 2009.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent from the first
quarter, when it increased a revised 0.6 percent, the State
Secretariat for Economic Affairs said in Bern. That’s the worst
performance since the third quarter of 2009. Exports slumped 1.3
percent from the previous three months.  Swiss 10-year bond yields fell five basis points to 1.06
percent. Five-year rates slid five basis points to 0.57 percent.  Swiss bonds returned 4.7 percent this year, compared with
5.2 percent from German bunds and 7.2 percent on U.K. gilts,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   Ed Ballard in London at 
 eballard2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  