-- 
France Telecom CEO Richard Sees Purchases and Partnerships in Africa

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-09-01T15:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/france-telecom-ceo-richard-sees-purchases-and-partnerships-in-africa.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  Chief Executive
Officer Stephane Richard said the company has acquisition
targets in the Middle East and  Africa , where it may also set up
partnerships to divvy up costs and win market shares.  “We are working on several targets,” Richard said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television near Paris today. “We are
working on a few situations exclusively in Africa and the Middle
East, because this is the area that we have chosen to lead this
international expansion in emerging markets.”  France Telecom , which has made acquisitions in Iraq and
Morocco in the past year, is in exclusive talks to acquire an
operator in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo. Richard is selling
European assets to focus on expanding in the  Middle East  and
Africa, where sales are growing at almost 10 times the pace of
some European markets. The company last year set a target of
doubling its emerging-market revenue by 2015, from about 3.3
billion euros ($4.7 billion) in 2009.  “There are big players in Africa, and we can have
interesting dialogues and even partnerships with other players
in Africa,” the CEO said, when asked whether France Telecom has
plans that would mirror the merger of its U.K. mobile-phone unit
with that of Deutsche Telekom AG. The French company also aims
to strengthen its leadership in  Egypt , he said.  The Paris-based company announced plans to sell its Swiss
phone business in July, more than a year after antitrust
regulators thwarted the company’s plan to merge the Swiss unit
with competitor Sunrise.  Swiss Target  “The target is to try to close, or at least to have a mid-
term agreement on that sale by the end of this year,” Richard
said. “There’re a lot of people interested in this asset,
substantially more than we expected, and we are very confident
about our capacity to monetize properly this asset.”  Apax Partners LLP, EQT Partners and cable operator  Liberty
Global Inc. (LBTYA)  are among companies considering bids for the Swiss
division in a sale that may fetch 2 billion euros, three people
familiar with the matter said last month.  France Telecom also plans to sell its minority stakes in
Austrian and Portuguese operators “as soon as possible,” the
CEO said. “We are in a close relationship and discussion with
the majority shareholders of these assets,”  The French company owns a 35 percent stake in Orange
Austria, and a 20 percent holding in Sonaecom SGPS SA, owner of
 Portugal ’s smallest mobile-phone company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  