-- 
Gasoline Strengthens Amid Threat of Storm Forming in Gulf Coast

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-09-01T19:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/gasoline-strengthens-amid-threat-of-storm-forming-in-gulf-coast.html
Gasoline gained on speculation a
weather system in the  Gulf of Mexico  may become a tropical
depression in the next day, threatening to curtail fuel output
from refineries clustered in states along the Gulf coast.  Futures advanced after the  National Hurricane Center  in
Miami said the system has a 80 percent chance of becoming a
tropical cyclone within the next two days. The Labor Day holiday
this weekend marks the end of the peak gasoline demand season in
the U.S.  “With gasoline there’s a little more concern going into
this holiday weekend because there is the possibility of the
storm affecting refineries,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . Traders have been buying ahead
of the storm for some protection, he said.  Gasoline for October delivery gained 1.64 cents, or 0.6
percent, to settle at $2.8927 on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
touched $2.9186, the highest intraday price since Aug. 2.  “Yesterday we had a bigger-than-expected draw in gasoline
and not as much of distillate,” Flynn said.  Gasoline stockpiles fell 2.8 million barrels to 208.6
million last week, according to the Energy Department. Analysts
estimated the government report would show a decline of 1.05
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Distillate supplies gained 363,000 barrels to 156.1
million, according to the government.  Heating oil futures for October delivery slipped 3.22
cents, or 1 percent, to $3.0518 a gallon.  Pipeline Outage  Oil product shipments may be delayed to the New York Harbor
delivery point after a portion of the largest pipeline
connecting the U.S. Northeast to the Gulf Coast was shut
following an aftershock in  Virginia .  Colonial Pipeline Co. shut its main lines 3 and 4, which
carry gasoline and distillate fuels north of Greensboro,  North
Carolina , and some smaller lines in Virginia after a 3.4-
magnitude aftershock in the center of the state, the company
said in an e-mail statement.  Colonial is conducting a flyover inspection before
restarting the line, spokesman  Steve Baker  said.  European Imports  Imports of gasoline to the U.S. from  Europe  may also drop
amid maintenance work and an equipment outage at German
refineries.  Gasoline barge prices in northwest Europe gained after
Mineraloelraffinerie Oberrhein GmbH shut a gasoline-making unit
following a leak at its Karlsruhe refinery,  Germany ’s largest,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  BP Plc said Aug. 30 it began six weeks of repairs and
maintenance at its Lingen oil refinery in Germany.  Imports of the fuel to the East Coast fell 229,000 barrels
to 591,000 barrels a day last week, according to the government.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 1.2
cents to $3.629 a gallon yesterday, according to AAA data. It’s
the tenth consecutive price increase for the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 