-- 
Ghana Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Interest Rate Unchanged at 12.5%

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-09-01T13:26:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ghana-central-bank-keeps-benchmark-interest-rate-unchanged-at-12-5-.html
Ghana’s  central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for the first time in three
meetings as growth in  Africa ’s newest oil exporter surged,
adding to pressure on inflation.  The key lending rate was kept at 12.5 percent, Governor
Kwesi Amissah-Arthur told reporters today in the capital, Accra.
Three of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the
decision, while the rest expected a rate cut.  Ghana’s economy expanded 23 percent in the first quarter
following the start of oil production at the Jubilee field, the
statistics agency said June 22. Rising wage demands, higher
power and water costs and climbing  oil prices  may result in the
“overheating of the economy,” threatening to boost inflation,
which was at 8.4 percent in July, the governor said.  “The Monetary Policy Committee is of the view that
inflation has bottomed and that there are upside risks to
inflation,” Yvonne Mhango, an economist at  Renaissance Capital 
in Johannesburg, said in an e-mail today. “Part of that risk
may include the increase in utility tariffs.”  The cedi was little changed at 1.5277 against the dollar
today, taking its gain this year to 2.8 percent.  Rate Cuts  The central bank reduced the lending rate four times
between November 2009 and July 2010. It was kept on hold at 13.5
percent for three consecutive meetings before being lowered by
half a percentage point at the past two meetings.  Producer-price inflation accelerated for the first time
since April to 14 percent in July, the statistics agency said
Aug. 24. Costs may increase further after the government raised
tariffs on water by 6.7 percent and electricity by 7 percent
this month.  “Despite the improved macroeconomic fundamentals, upside
risks to inflation are emerging in the form of the adjustment in
utility tariffs, wage pressures and other oil-induced and
external pressures that may result in the overheating of the
economy,” Amissah-Arthur said.  Ghana ’s exports surged 62 percent to $7.5 billion between
January and July compared with a year earlier, fueled by higher
output of gold, cocoa beans and oil, the governor said. Crude
oil exports amounted to 12.6 million barrels, valued at $1.4
billion, while gold shipments reached $1.5 billion. Cocoa was
the biggest earner at $2.8 billion, he said.  Ghana is the world’s second-largest cocoa exporter after
 Ivory Coast  and the continent’s No. 2 gold producer after  South
Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  