-- 
Gillard Says High Court Ruling on Refugees Throws Asylum Policy Into Doubt

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-09-01T05:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/gillard-says-high-court-ruling-on-refugees-throws-asylum-policy-into-doubt.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard  said a High Court decision yesterday overturning a
refugee agreement with Malaysia has raised questions about the
processing of asylum seekers offshore.  Gillard, speaking to reporters today in Brisbane, called
the court’s decision “disappointing,” saying it had changed
the nation’s laws for dealing with asylum seekers.  “The High Court decision basically turns on its head the
understanding of the law,” Gillard said. “It’s far from clear
whether the court’s ruling would, practically speaking, permit
the operation of offshore processing.”  Dealing with asylum seekers is a political issue in
 Australia  and helped Liberal-National coalition Prime Minister
John Howard win a third term in office in 2001. Gillard, rebuked
by opposition leader  Tony Abbott  for failing to stem the flow of
boat people into the country and facing declining public
support, sought to quell the criticism with the Malaysia
agreement she said would “smash the business model of people
smugglers.”  The nation of 22.5 million has a quota of accepting 13,750
people under its humanitarian program this year, including 6,000
refugees.  Under the Malaysia agreement, signed July 25, Australia
would have sent 800 asylum seekers to Malaysia and accepted
4,000 people from that country who were verified as legitimate
refugees by the  United Nations . Australia currently processes
asylum seekers at Christmas Island, between  Indonesia  and
Australia’s west coast.  The nation’s top court yesterday said the plan didn’t meet
the necessary criteria for dealing with refugees, including
providing adequate protection for asylum seekers under
international or domestic law.  The government will seek legal advice before announcing a
policy alternative, Gillard said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  