-- 
Global Logistic, Canada Pension to Invest in Japan Assets

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-09-01T07:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/global-logistic-canada-pension-fund-to-invest-in-japan-warehouse-assets.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , the
overseas logistics unit of the  Government of Singapore
Investment Corp. , said it formed a joint venture with the  Canada
Pension Plan  Investment Board to invest in warehouses in Japan.  Global Logistic and Canada Pension Plan, which manages
C$153.2 billion ($157 billion), will invest $250 million each
over three years to develop and hold storage and distribution
centers in greater Tokyo and Osaka areas, according to a
statement to the Singapore stock exchange. The venture will
build up to 12 warehouses that may be worth as much as $1.4
billion, said Jeffrey Schwartz, deputy chairman of Global
Logistic.  “Developing logistics facilities in Japan is an attractive
use of capital,” said Schwartz. The partnership “will enable
GLP to earn solid returns on its capital while managing risk.”  The announcement comes a month after Global Logistic was
selected to negotiate with LaSalle Investment Management Inc. in
buying about 140 billion yen ($1.8 billion) of warehouses in
 Japan , two people with direct knowledge of the deal said then.  The vacancy rate for warehouses fell by more than half to 7
percent in June from a peak of 20 percent in September 2009 due
to a shortage of supply, according to CB Richard Ellis Group
Inc.  “The growing demand in Japan for modern third party
logistics facilities provides an attractive investment
opportunity for us,” said Graeme Eadie, senior vice-president
of real estate investments at the Canada Pension Plan in a
statement.  The fund will be an open-ended fund with 50 percent loan-
to-value ratio, according to the release.  Separately, Global Logistic may consider future real estate
investment trust listing in Japan, Schwartz said at a press
conference held in  Tokyo  today, declining to elaborate further.
The Singapore-based company may also set up a fund management
platform in  China , he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  