-- 
Manufacturing Slump in Europe, Asia May Spur Stimulus From Central Bankers

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-09-01T14:25:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/global-manufacturing-slowdown-may-encourage-central-bank-stimulus-measures.html
Manufacturing slumped in Europe and
 Asia , adding to signs of slowing global growth that may keep a
lid on inflation and encourage some central banks to step up
stimulus measures.  Euro-area manufacturing contracted more than initially
estimated in August while Chinese manufacturing growth stayed
near a 29-month low, purchasing managers’ indexes showed.
Similar gauges for Sweden, the U.K., South Korea and Taiwan all
indicated contraction.  While manufacturing slumped in Europe and Asia, the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index released today
unexpectedly showed U.S. expansion in August, dropping to 50.6
from 50.9 the prior month. A reading of 50 is the dividing line
between expansion and contraction in manufacturing.  “Today’s data raise the specter of another global economic
slump,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior European economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “Everyone is looking to the central banks to
bail them out. The question is whether central banks really want
to go down that route again.”  Some Federal Reserve officials favor “more substantial”
action to bolster U.S. growth beyond a pledge to keep interest
rates at record lows for the next two years, minutes from their
Aug. 9 meeting showed. The  European Central Bank  may revise its
assessment that inflation risks are on the upside, President
Jean-Claude Trichet signaled this week, paving the way for a
halt in its policy tightening.  The  Standard & Poor’s  500 index rose 0.5 percent to
1,225.08 at 10:11 a.m. in  New York , after the ISM data were
released, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to
2.25 percent from 2.22 percent late yesterday.  ‘Basically Done’  In Asia, central banks may also be “basically done with
their monetary policy tightening,” with Taiwan and  India  among
the few that may still raise  interest rates , said Euben Paracuelles, a Singapore-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc.
“Slowing growth will ease some of the demand-side pressures
across Asia” on consumer prices, Paracuelles said.  The global slowdown is damping demand for fuel, driving
down  oil prices  that have been a key source of inflation. Crude
has dropped to $88 a barrel from $114 per barrel in April.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee has held
off raising interest rates even with inflation running at more
than twice its 2 percent target, choosing to give more weight to
the faltering economic recovery.  The deteriorating outlook prompted Bank of England policy
maker Martin Weale and Chief Economist Spencer Dale to abandon a
push for a quarter-point rate increase at last month’s meeting.
Some officials also debated whether there was a need to expand
the bank’s bond-purchase program.  Protests in Asia  Inflation, which in  South Korea  reached a three-year high
in August, has eroded consumers’ purchasing power across Asia,
spurring protests from  China  to India. Any lasting sign of
moderation in consumer prices may let some central banks shift
toward considering an easing in policy, following Brazil’s
interest-rate cut yesterday, said  Tim Condon , head of Asia
research at ING Groep NV in Singapore.  “We have seen the worst and inflation will slowly
subside,” said Condon. “Some may even be thinking if they can
ease monetary policy to stimulate the economy.”  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  wrote in a Financial Times article on Aug. 16 that low
interest rates and central banks’ readiness to “dive once more
into unconventional waters” if required are necessary to ensure
the global recovery doesn’t falter.  Recession Risk  A gauge of euro-area manufacturing fell to 49 in August
from 50.4 in July, the first time in two years it has fallen
below the 50 mark to signal contraction, London-based Markit
Economics said today. The gauge for the U.K. also fell to 49
from 49.4, while  Sweden ’s index declined to 48.7 from 50.1.  Today’s data signal “an end to the manufacturing
recovery,” said Markit chief economist  Chris Williamson .
“There is a growing risk that the euro zone could slide back
into recession in the second half of the year.”  Growth in the 17-nation currency bloc slowed to 0.2 percent
in the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first as the
region’s debt crisis weighed on confidence and the global
slowdown curbed exports. Germany’s economy almost ground to a
halt.  ThyssenKrupp AG, Germany’s largest steelmaker, on Aug. 12
reported fiscal third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’
estimates, citing slower global demand and “sharply” declining
European consumption.  Fed officials last month discussed a range of ways to
invigorate growth after the  U.S. economy  expanded at 0.7 percent
average annual pace in the first half of the year, according to
Federal Open Market Committee minutes released Aug. 31.  Bernanke’s Stance  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke in an Aug. 26 speech stopped
short of signaling further stimulus measures and said the
economy will probably improve in the second half of 2011.  An index of Chinese manufacturing was at 50.9, up from
50.7, the  China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing  reported.
Similar gauges for South Korea and  Taiwan  were at 49.7 and 45.2,
below the expansion-contraction point of 50, according to data
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit.  “The risk of a global economic contraction has certainly
intensified, though it’s not very likely at this stage,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London . “That helps on the inflation
front, but central banks have different appetites for digging
into their tool boxes to support growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  