-- 
Nissan, Kia U.S. Sales Surge as Toyota, Honda Decline Amid Parts Shortages

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T23:47:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/gm-s-u-s-sales-climb-18-as-chevy-cruze-helps-automaker-exceed-estimates.html
Nissan Motor Co. and  Kia Motors
Corp. (000270)  led U.S. sales gains for Asia-based auto brands in August
as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Honda Motor Co. continued to battle
tight supplies months after Japan’s earthquake.  Nissan’s sales rose 19 percent from a year earlier, topping
analysts’ estimates, and Kia’s gained 27 percent, according to
company statements yesterday. Toyota,  Asia ’s largest carmaker,
said deliveries dropped 13 percent, while Honda posted a decline
of 24 percent. Industrywide U.S. sales grew 7.5 percent.  “Nissan had the advantage of having more cars on the
ground earlier in the year when the tsunami hit and less damage
from the earthquake,” said  Jesse Toprak , an analyst at
TrueCar.com, a Santa Monica, California-based provider of auto
prices and data. “That’s combined with bigger incentive
spending.”  More than five months after the magnitude-9 quake, U.S.
dealers still have limited supplies of Toyota’s Prius hybrid and
Honda’s Civic small car as the carmakers grapple with parts and
power shortages in  Japan . Toyota’s North American plants were
back at full production in August, and Honda said all its
factories in the region are now operating at pre-quake levels.  “Shipments of finished autos are coming in at about 50
percent of the rate they were before the quake,” Richard Steinke, executive director of the Port of  Long Beach , said in
an interview yesterday. “The pace is definitely picking up.”  Total U.S. sales of new cars and light trucks increased to
1.07 million last month from 997,467 a year earlier, according
to Woodcliff Lake, New Jersey-based Autodata Corp.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, representing two
ordinary shares, fell 67 cents to $71.17 yesterday in  New York 
Stock Exchange composite trading. Honda’s ADRs rose 35 cents, or
1.1 percent, to $32.82 in New York.  Incentive Competition  Nissan offered incentives valued at an average of $2,900 a
vehicle in August, compared with about $2,100 for Honda and
$2,400 for Toyota, Toprak said.  The declines for Toyota and Honda led to a 2.4 percent drop
in sales for Asia-based carmakers, while U.S.-based brands rose
18 percent. Sales gained 18 percent for  General Motors Co. (GM) , 11
percent for  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and 31 percent for Chrysler Group
LLC, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA. (F)   Toyota reported sales of 129,483 Toyota, Lexus and Scion
vehicles, falling from 148,388 a year earlier. The drop was more
than the 11 percent average of four analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The story is getting better for us in terms of
availability,” Jeff Bracken, U.S. vice president for Toyota-
brand sales, said on a conference call. The company is also
releasing its revamped Camry sedan in mid-September, about two
years earlier than planned, to accelerate sales, he said.  Production at Toyota’s North American plants will exceed
the company’s initial target for this year’s second half, said
Randy Pflughaupt, the Toyota City, Japan-based automaker’s U.S.
group vice president, on the call.  Toyota’s August market share fell to 12.1 percent from 14.9
percent a year earlier, according to Autodata.  Honda  Honda, the Japanese automaker that relies most on U.S.
sales, said deliveries of Honda and Acura vehicles fell to
82,321 from 108,729, its fourth straight month with a decline
greater than 20 percent. The drop was narrower than the 25
percent average estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “A greater selection of vehicles is beginning to arrive at
dealers this month as the company continues to recover from
temporary supply disruptions,”  John Mendel , Honda’s U.S.
executive vice president, said in statement.  The Tokyo-based automaker’s sales have been crimped by a
continuing shortage of its revamped Civic because of quake-
related parts disruptions.  “It looks like the worst is behind them,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at  Santa Monica , California-based
Edmunds.com. “The fall months should allow them to capture
waiting consumers who have not defected to other brands.”  Honda’s market share for last month shrank to 7.7 percent
from 10.9 percent, Autodata said.  Nissan  Nissan, Japan’s second-biggest automaker, sold 91,541
Nissan and Infiniti vehicles last month, rising from 76,827 a
year earlier. Deliveries for the Yokohama-based company were
expected to rise 18 percent, the average of four estimates.  August sales might have been even stronger had it not been
for Hurricane Irene, which hit the East Coast in the month’s
final weekend.  “About 3,000 units were left on the table last month
because of the storm,”  Al Castignetti , Nissan’s vice president
of U.S. sales, said in a phone interview. “We would have ripped
the cover off the ball if we’d had that momentum going into the
last weekend.”  The hurricane, which killed at least 40 people and ravaged
the coast from North Carolina to  Maine , interfered with auto
sales in states that represent about 30 percent of total U.S.
deliveries, said Paul Taylor, chief economist at the National
Automobile Dealers Association.  Nissan’s August market share gained 0.8 percentage point to
8.5 percent, according to Autodata.  Korean Gains  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , South Korea’s largest automaker, sold
58,505 vehicles in the U.S., a 9.1 percent increase from 53,603
a year earlier. The gains were led by its revamped Accent small
car and Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle.  Kia, a Hyundai affiliate, sold 41,188 vehicles, up from
32,465. The increase was led by the Optima sedan and Sorento
SUV.  Combined sales for the two Seoul-based partners, which
operate separately in the U.S., totaled 99,693, behind only GM,
Ford, Chrysler and Toyota for the month.  While Hyundai and Kia continue to gain in the U.S., their
growth pace is slowing, said Edmunds.com’s Caldwell.  “The opportunity for Korean automakers to capture market
share is closing as the Japanese companies are on their way
back,” she said. “The real test to see if Korean automaker
market share will hold up will be when new products like Camry
arrive and Civic has less constraints on production.”  Sales for  Fuji Heavy Industries Ltd. (7270) ’s Subaru, a Toyota
affiliate, fell 6.3 percent, while  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  reported a
15 percent increase. Among smaller brands,  Mitsubishi Motors
Corp. (7211)  raised sales 86 percent and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  had a 32
percent increase in deliveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  