-- 
Goldman Will Pay Penalties, Alter Practices to Win Approval of Litton Sale

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-09-01T18:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/goldman-sachs-ocwen-reach-accord-with-new-york-state-to-end-robo-signing.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed to
pay future Federal Reserve penalties and write down $53 million
of  mortgage loans  in New York to gain approval for its sale of
Litton Loan Servicing LP.  The Fed ordered Goldman Sachs to conduct an independent
review of Litton’s foreclosures in 2009 and 2010 to address a
“pattern of misconduct and negligence,” the regulator said
today in a statement. Litton’s sale to  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)  was
completed today after reaching accords with the Fed and New York
state regulators, according to a Goldman Sachs statement.  Goldman Sachs leaves mortgage servicing after Litton was
accused of robo-signing, in which foreclosure documents are
signed by company officials who vouch for their accuracy without
personally verifying the contents. The practice raised concern
that some borrowers may have been wrongfully evicted and
triggered calls for more staffing and oversight.  “Our agreement sets a new higher standard for the
residential mortgage-servicing industry, whose troubling
foreclosure and servicing practices we have been investigating
along with other regulators across the country,” Benjamin Lawsky, superintendant at the  New York  State Department of
Financial Services, said in a statement.  Mortgage servicers send out bills, collect payments and
handle foreclosures. New York-based Goldman Sachs acquired
Houston-based Litton with 1,000 employees in 2007, took a
writedown of about $200 million earlier this year and agreed in
June to sell the unit to Ocwen for $263.7 million. The value of
mortgage servicing companies has been eroded as record U.S.
foreclosures and delinquencies drove up costs.  Review Findings  Ocwen, based in  West Palm Beach ,  Florida , will also pay
about $337.4 million to retire some of Litton’s debt.  Goldman Sachs agreed to provide the Fed with findings of
the independent review as well as its plans to reimburse
customers for fees or losses stemming from improper
foreclosures, according to the settlement. The firm also agreed
to improve compliance and borrower communications should it re-
enter the business.  “The review is intended to provide remediation to
borrowers who suffered financial injury as a result of wrongful
foreclosures or other deficiencies identified in a review of the
foreclosure process,” according to the Fed’s statement.  Future Penalties  Goldman Sachs also agreed to pay any penalty the Fed
imposes on Litton based on today’s enforcement action. The
regulator said it plans penalties for Litton as well as other
large servicers, including Bank of America Corp. and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , which received enforcement actions in April.  Attorneys general  from all 50 states last year announced
their investigation into bank foreclosure practices after
reports that faulty or manufactured documents were being used to
seize homes. Since then, a group of attorneys general and
officials from federal agencies, including the  Justice
Department , have been negotiating a settlement with the nation’s
five largest mortgage servicers.  The New York agreement requires the companies to withdraw
pending foreclosures with robo-signed affidavits and compensate
borrowers whose homes were wrongfully foreclosed, according to
the statement. The $53 million represents 25 percent of unpaid
principal for all 60-day delinquent home loans serviced by
Litton.  Ocwen is getting a portfolio of loans with about $41.2
billion in unpaid principal balance as of March 31, most of them
non-prime home mortgages, according to a June filing.  Possible Pattern  Goldman Sachs’s agreement to reduce unpaid principal in the
New York accord is “the most specific we’ve seen,” said  Guy
Cecala , publisher of Bethesda, Maryland-based trade publication
Inside Mortgage Finance. While the need for sale approval and
small size of Litton may limit the comparability with other
potential settlements, the deal may give some insight to how
future deals could be structured, he said.  “In Goldman’s case, this is a cost of doing business in
terms of getting this deal done,” Cecala said. “This is a
blueprint for what the states are looking for: potentially some
lump sum that they can use to help out borrowers who are in
trouble, regardless of whether or not they’ve suffered any
foreclosure abuse.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  