-- 
Google Wins Dismissal of Price-Shopping Site’s Antitrust Case in Ohio

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-09-01T21:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/google-wins-dismissal-of-price-shopping-site-s-antitrust-case-in-ohio.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest Internet
search company, won the dismissal of antitrust claims filed
against it by a price-comparison website that accused it of
anticompetitive practices.  MyTriggers.com Inc. had responded to a 2009 Google lawsuit
seeking $335,000 in advertising payments by accusing the
 Mountain View , California-based company of raising the minimum
price for keywords that would lead Google users to
MyTriggers.com, effectively eliminating it as a possible
competitor.  Judge John P. Bessey in Columbus rejected the countersuit
in a 14-page ruling yesterday.  “The counterclaim only alleges harm to MyTriggers
itself,” Bessey wrote, noting the company concedes Google does
business with other price-comparison websites. “Such an
allegation undercuts MyTriggers’ argument that competition as a
whole within the relevant market is being injured,” the judge
said.  MyTriggers’ legal team was aided by Charles F. “Rick” Rule, who has represented Microsoft Corp., and its claims were
supported by Ohio’s then-Attorney General  Richard Cordray .  “Mytriggers is reviewing the decision and considering its
next steps,” Jonathan Kanter, a law firm partner with
 Cadwalader Wickersham & Taft , said in a telephone interview. He
declined to comment further.  Google declined to comment, a spokesman for the company,
Adam Kovacevich, said by phone.  According to a MyTriggers  website , the company is based in
 Redwood City ,  California , and has an office in Columbus.  Cost Per Action  It charges clients on a cost-per-action, or CPA, basis,
meaning that it gets paid only after a purchase is made,
according to court papers. Google and other  search engines 
operate on a cost-per-click, or CPC, basis under which
advertisers pay each time a user clicks on an advertisement.  “The innovative CPA approach represented a disruption to
Google’s pricing model,” MyTriggers said.  In 2008, Google allegedly increased MyTriggers costs by
1,000 percent to 10,000 percent, resulting in a decline in
traffic to its sites and forcing the company to fire almost all
its  Ohio  staff and “exit in near entirety from the search
advertising market.”  The case is Google Inc. v. MyTriggers.com Inc., 09-cvh-10-
14836, Franklin County, Ohio, Court of Common Pleas (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  