-- 
Google’s Ex-China Head Kai-fu Lee Raises $180 Million for Technology Fund

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T02:53:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/google-s-former-china-head-lee-raises-180-million-for-technology-fund.html
Innovation Works, the venture
capital firm founded by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s former China head, said
its new fund focused on Internet startups in the Asian nation
attracted investors including Ron Conway and Yuri Milner.  The $180 million fund also drew investments from WI Harper
Group, Baillie Gifford & Co. and  Sequoia Capital , according to a
statement by Innovation Works distributed via Marketwire.
Innovation Works was founded in September 2009 by Kai-Fu Lee
after he left Google, with an investment from WI Harper.  Since its founding, Innovation Works has invested in 34
projects, nine of which have gone on to receive financing from
third-party, venture capital firms, the company said. The new
Innovation Works Development Fund is the first U.S. dollar-based
fund raised by the firm to focus on the Internet in  China , which
has the world’s largest population of Web users.  Conway was one of the first “angel investors,”
individuals who provide financing to closely held companies that
are too small to be funded by venture-capital firms. He was an
early investor in both Google and Twitter Inc. Milner has
invested in Facebook Inc., Zynga Inc., and Groupon Inc.  China had 485 million  Internet users  at the end of June,
according to data from the government-sponsored China Internet
Network Information Center.  Several of the early investments by Innovation Works were
focused on mobile technology. According to its website, the
investments include Tapas, an Internet smartphone operating
system that’s based on Google’s Android and tailored for Chinese
users; Wonderpod, a software assistant for Android phones;
Umeng, an analytics tool for mobile developers in China and
Photo Wonder, an international mobile phone software for
enhancing and sharing photos.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  