-- 
Libyan Rebels Seek Qaddafi Family’s U.K. Cash, Hampstead Mansion

-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 
2011-09-01T15:15:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/libyan-rebels-seek-qaddafi-family-s-u-k-cash-hampstead-mansion.html
Muammar Qaddafi’s 12 billion pounds
($19.4 billion) of U.K. assets, including cash and a
10 million-pound mansion in London’s Hampstead neighborhood, are
the new targets for the rebels that deposed the former Libyan
leader.  The National Transitional Council won United Nations
approval to access $1.55 billion of Libyan currency held in the
U.K. by printer  De La Rue Plc (DLAR)  earlier this week. There was so
much cash that stacked chest-high it would have covered a soccer
field, said attorney Jeremy Brittenden, whose law firm  Hogan
Lovells  worked on the matter.  Attention is now turning to Qaddafi’s other British
investments, from bank accounts and hedge-fund stakes to homes,
which were frozen in February after the UN imposed sanctions.  “Anything we can link to the Qaddafi regime or his
children, we’re going to go after aggressively,” said Mohamed
Shaban, a lawyer for the new Libyan ambassador in London.  A meeting today in Paris to mark the shift to the new
Libyan leadership is being jointly chaired by French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron .  France  is
pushing the UN to unfreeze 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) to
allow Libya’s new leaders to restore essential services and pay
workers. Britain’s Royal Air Force flew the first installment of
the De La Rue funds, 280 million dinars ($232 million), to
Benghazi yesterday to help end a cash shortage, the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office said.  The notes will be used by Libya’s central bank to replenish
reserves throughout the country, as well as for aid, medicines
and food, Hogan Lovells said in a statement.  Early Victory  The new Libyan government won an early victory last week
when a London judge granted it access to more than 60 million
pounds deposited by the old regime at British Arab Commercial
Bank Ltd. The money is needed to pay for the education of more
than 2,000 Libyans studying in the U.K, Shaban said.  Libya ’s new leaders urgently need funds to pay salaries,
establish a new government and carry out humanitarian work. A
representative of the transitional council, attorney Tarek
Eltoumi, was tasked with recovering some of the frozen U.K.
assets, most of which are financial assets purchased by the
Libyan state investment group and central bank.  The rebels will probably need to draw on overseas cash
reserves to bridge the gap between taking power and receiving
oil revenue, according to London-based British Arab Commercial
Bank, which the holds more than $170 million for the  Libyan
Investment Authority . The transitional council needs $6.5
billion to meet urgent requirements, a representative told
reporters last week.  “Liquid funds held in banks are likely to be depleted
quite rapidly as Libya meets its priority needs,” a statement
from the bank said. It is working with U.K. authorities on the
frozen accounts and said that control of the funds should pass
to Libyan authorities “in the near future.”  Urgent Requirements  The U.K. is working with the UN to pass a new resolution
allowing the transitional government to use frozen assets.  “The situation on the ground has clearly changed,” said a
foreign office spokesman who declined to be identified citing
government policy. “We hope soon to have a UN resolution to
take account of that.”  Until then, the new regime can apply to the UN for a
license to release specific assets for extraordinary expenses,
the technique used to recover the De La Rue bank notes.  “It can be a lengthy process," said Louise Lamb, a partner
at Hogan Lovells, which advised a representative of transitional
council on the De La Rue application. ‘‘I suspect it will get
quicker as things develop -- the first big hurdle has been
passed."  $20 Billion Cash  Rafik al-Nayed, the new head of the Libyan Investment
Authority has pledged to free up frozen overseas assets so it
can make loans to the transitional government.  The Libyan Investment Authority has $20 billion in cash and
deposits at several banks, according to documents leaked to
transparency website  Global Witness  in July. As of September
last year London-based  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  held around $1.4
billion for the organization, the report shows. HSBC spokesman
Jezz Farr declined to comment.  Meanwhile, the Libyan embassy in London is working to seize
a number of upscale properties in the city either owned by
Qaddafi family members or registered to his government.  Embassy properties in Holborn, Knightsbridge and Holland
Park worth close to 100 million pounds need to be transferred to
the new Libyan diplomats in the U.K., said Shaban, of London law
firm MS-Legal, who is working on the orders.  Recovering properties owned by Qaddafi family members will
be difficult because of complex ownership structures. Shaban has
begun proceedings to gain control of the 10 million-pound
mansion in Hampstead, believed to be owned by Qaddafi’s son Saif al-Islam.  HM Treasury  ‘‘It’s owned by an offshore company with appointee
directors and shareholders,’’ Shaban said. ‘‘At first glance
Saif al-Islam has nothing to do with it. HM Treasury has frozen
the property -- we are working with them to link that house to
Saif al-Islam.’’  Shaban said it’s unlikely to be the only multimillion-pound
property tied to the Qaddafi clan.  ‘‘There are rumors other siblings have assets here which I
am investigating,’’ he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in  London  
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  