-- 
Libyan Demand for Oil Products Is Strengthening, Thenamaris Says

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-01T10:04:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/libyan-demand-for-oil-products-is-strengthening-thenamaris-says.html
Libyan demand for refined oil
products such as gasoline is rising as rebel forces tighten
their grip on the country, according to Thenamaris Ships
Management Inc., which operates a fleet of tankers.  Shipments of gasoline and fuel oil have increased, Kostas
Georgopoulos, a senior tanker broker at Thenamaris, said by
phone from  Athens  today. Those oil products are used to power
vehicles and heavy machinery. Refined products are called clean
in the industry, while crude oil is referred to as dirty.  “There have been 10 to 15 lots of 30,000-ton clean and
dirty cargoes arriving into  Libya  in the last month,” said
Georgopoulos. “I would assume the increased need for fuel is
for  power plants . As far as the clean trade is concerned, again,
the imports have increased more than 20 percent when compared
with previous months, due mainly to increased need in operating
trucks and heavy machinery.”  Rebels opposing  Muammar Qaddafi  received three to four
cargoes of gasoline a month in June and July, while the now-
ousted national leader got none, according to two traders, a
shipowner, an analyst and a shipbroker surveyed by Bloomberg.
The rebels received about four cargoes in May and nothing was
delivered to Qaddafi. That compares with eight cargoes in a
normal month before an uprising erupted in February, they said.  Waiting Motorists  The lack of refined-product shipments to Qaddafi-controlled
areas caused shortages. By early August, motorists in the
capital city of Tripoli were waiting up to five days to fill
their cars, according to Alan Fraser, a security analyst at AKE
Group Ltd. in  London .  As rebels advance toward remaining Qaddafi strongholds, the
international coalition that backed the struggle against the
former leader is meeting in Paris to discuss reconstruction and
the transition to democracy.  Libya’s oil exports have slumped since fighting began.
Output plunged to 60,000 barrels a day in July, compared with
1.7 million barrels in January, according to the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency , which advises 28 developed nations
on  energy policy . Libya holds Africa’s largest crude reserves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  