-- 
Icahn Betting Clorox Bids Exceed Buyers’ Valuations: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-09-02T20:40:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/icahn-betting-clorox-bids-exceed-buyers-valuations-real-m-a.html
Carl Icahn  is betting that companies
from  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  to  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and Unilever
will pay a higher valuation for  Clorox Co. (CLX)  than their own stocks
are worth.  Billionaire investor Icahn, who’s campaigning for Clorox to
put itself up for sale, said this week he would back up the
process by offering to pay $78 a share if the Oakland,
California-based company doesn’t find an acquirer. Icahn’s price
tag values Clorox at 19.3 times profit, more than the earnings
multiple of all six companies he has suggested as potential
strategic buyers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with a profit margin that’s higher than 95 percent of
rival U.S. household products makers, it still may be difficult
for Icahn to find a buyer willing to take on an entire company
that produces  everything  from Glad trash bags to Hidden Valley
Ranch dressing and Burt’s Bees lip balm, according to Harris
Private Bank. After rallying to a record $74.55 on Icahn’s first
takeover bid in July, Clorox shares yesterday traded 12 percent
below his latest proposal, indicating investors aren’t convinced
the company will be acquired.  “I don’t see too many buyers coming out of the woodwork
for such an expensive stock,”  Jack Ablin , chief investment
officer for Chicago-based Harris Private Bank, which oversees
$60 billion, said in a telephone interview. “It just seems
somewhat prohibitive to a strategic buyer. I don’t think there’s
a buyer that would want the whole thing.”  ‘Back Stop’  Icahn, 75, said this week that if he succeeds in replacing
Clorox’s board members, he will “back stop” an auction and
acquire the company for $78 a share if there’s no higher offer.
At least half of the buyout, which values the company’s equity
at about $10.3 billion, would be in cash with the rest in senior
unsecured debt.  The latest proposal is $2 less than his previous offer,
which Jefferies & Co. had said it would help finance by raising
$7.8 billion in debt. Icahn, Clorox’s largest investor with a
9.5 percent stake,  raised his offer  to $80 a share on July 20,
after the company rejected his earlier bid of $76.50 and adopted
a poison pill to guard against a takeover. The board also said
the $80-a-share offer was “inadequate” and “not credible.”  “There was a lack of credibility before, and there’s even
more so now,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , said in a telephone interview. “His latest offer
seemed very flimsy.”  ‘Highly Conditional’  In an Aug. 30 statement, Clorox’s board said it’s open to
“any credible proposal” and again called Icahn’s offer
“highly conditional.” Icahn is looking to fund half the
purchase by borrowing from Clorox investors and didn’t provide
any terms or conditions for the debt, Kathryn Caulfield, a
spokeswoman for Clorox, said in an e-mail.  Icahn, who made millions in the 1980s pressuring companies
from USX Corp. to Texaco Inc. to split up or increase dividends
and buybacks, has succeeded in boosting Clorox shares.  Clorox reached a record high of $74.55 on July 15, the day
Icahn’s original takeover proposal was made public. Even after
falling 7.4 percent to $69.01 as of yesterday, the shares were
1.7 percent higher than the 20-day trading average before Icahn
first disclosed a bid.  Shares of Clorox retreated 0.6 percent to $68.59 today in
New York trading.  ‘The Right Time’  “Now is the right time for Clorox to be aggressive in
pursuing a strategic transaction,” Icahn said in a letter to
Chief Executive Officer Donald Knauss, 60, on July 14. “There
are potentially multiple substantially larger strategic bidders
with robust balance sheets who are in a position to make a bid
that reflects significant inherent synergies.”  The letter urged Clorox to seek offers from P&G, Unilever,
Colgate-Palmolive,  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ,  Kimberly-Clark
Corp. (KMB)  or Henkel AG. Representatives for P&G, Unilever and
Reckitt Benckiser said their companies don’t comment on deal
speculation. Representatives for Colgate-Palmolive and Henkel
didn’t return telephone and e-mail requests for comment.  Henkel has no interest in acquiring Clorox, CEO Kasper Rorsted said in an interview on Bloomberg Television last month.  Bob Brand, a spokesman for Kimberly-Clark, declined to
comment beyond the company’s earnings call. Kimberly-Clark CEO
Thomas Falk said on the July conference call that his plan
“doesn’t call for big transformational M&A” and that Clorox is
already a “well-managed company.”  $100 Price  The benefits of owning the whole company are “extremely
compelling” and would help buyers pay down debt taken on to
help fund a deal, Icahn said in a July 15 telephone interview. A
bid of $100 a share for Clorox would still be justified as it
would boost earnings per share for five of the respective
strategic buyers by 5 percent to 26 percent, he estimated in the
letter. Henkel wasn’t listed as a buyer that would receive a
profit boost at $100 a share.  Icahn’s current offer of $78 a share would already value
Clorox at 19.3 times profit of $4.05 a share in the last 12
months, a higher price-to-earnings multiple than all of the six
suggested strategic buyers. They traded at an average ratio of
15.6 yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At $100 a
share, Clorox would be valued at 24.7 times earnings.  “The multiple that we’re paying based on the company’s
current earnings is higher than where some of these companies
currently trade, but I believe that the reason they can pay a
large premium is because they have cost synergies and revenue
synergies,” Icahn said in a telephone interview yesterday.  P&G, Unilever  Colgate-Palmolive, the New York-based maker of Colgate
toothpaste and Irish Spring soap, had the highest multiple,
trading at 18.5 times profit. Cincinnati-based P&G, the world’s
largest consumer-products company with brands from Gillette
razors to Olay skin care, was valued at 16 times earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of Colgate-Palmolive slipped 1.5 percent to $88.52
today in  New York . P&G fell 1.1 percent to $62.55.  Unilever, the London- and Rotterdam-based maker of Dove
soap and Magnum ice cream, traded at 15.1 times profit in
Amsterdam yesterday. Henkel of Dusseldorf,  Germany , is the
cheapest of Icahn’s suggested strategic buyers. The maker of
industrial adhesives, Dial soap and Soft Scrub cleaners was
valued at 14.4 times earnings.  Shares of Unilever slid 1.1 percent to 23.64 euros today in
Amsterdam. Henkel lost 1.9 percent to 40.21 euros in  Frankfurt .  ‘Quite Expensive’  “Clorox’s stock is quite expensive, so a deal with many of
those companies would be dilutive,”  Ali Dibadj , a New York-
based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “You look at the strategic buyers who have
been listed and we would be very surprised if any of them are
chomping at the bit to pick up a Clorox.”  While certain areas such as Burt’s Bees, dressings and
sauces are attractive, it may be difficult to break up the
company because of tax issues, Dibadj said. Acquirers may also
be deterred by Clorox’s dependence on the North American market,
which accounted for about 79 percent of revenue last fiscal
year, he said. Colgate-Palmolive gets only about 19 percent of
sales from  North America .  Net income fell 7.6 percent in the year ended June 2011 as
commodity costs rose, particularly for resin that’s used to make
plastic bags and bottles.  Still, Clorox’s profit margin of 10.65 percent in the last
year was higher than all U.S. household product makers with
market values greater than $100 million, except for Church &
Dwight Co. with a 10.74 percent margin. The Princeton, New
Jersey-based company makes Arm & Hammer baking soda.  ‘He’s Probably Right’  “We didn’t need Mr. Icahn to broker a strategic deal,”
said Russo with  Edward Jones . “He feels if you add up all the
separate parts, you’re going to get a number higher than where
the stock price is trading today. He’s probably right, but in
actuality, it’s tough to do.”  Icahn’s current bid, which is half debt, “doesn’t sound
too appealing” to shareholders, Michael Liss, a  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based  fund manager  at American Century Investments,
said in a telephone interview. The firm oversees $109 billion,
including about 1.9 million Clorox shares. The activist investor
may be “making a lot of noise” to boost the shares and make a
profit, Liss said.  “For all these companies, I don’t see them creating any
value for their shareholders by buying Clorox,” Liss said.
“They don’t need to mess around with buying Clorox. It won’t
help the multiple of any of these companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 