-- 
Microsoft Says Windows Phone May Exceed Researcher’s Market Share Forecast

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-01T18:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/microsoft-says-windows-phone-may-exceed-researcher-s-market-share-forecast.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said its Windows
Phone operating system may capture more than 20 percent of the
smartphone market over the next two to three years with the help
of hardware manufacturers and increased marketing efforts.  Forecasts by researchers Gartner and IDC, which expects a
market share of about 20 percent in 2015, are conservative, said
Achim Berg, head of Windows Phone marketing, in Berlin today.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, is betting
that Windows Phone will retake market share lost to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and handsets running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. The
company will start offering the enhanced “Mango” version of
its operating system, with functions including better social-
media offerings, for the first time in  Europe  on two HTC Corp.
phones, set to go on sale by Oct. 1.  HTC and other partners will run advertisement campaigns for
the Titan and Radar phones, and the company has joined Microsoft
in training “hundreds” of salesmen worldwide to better
demonstrate the product, Berg said at the IFA consumer
electronics fair. Microsoft plans to build on Windows Phone’s
initial success with female consumers as well as with young and
first-time users to win market share, he said.  “We’re seeing an extremely positive response” to the
Windows Mobile system, HTC’s President for Europe, the  Middle
East  and  Africa , Florian Seiche, said in an interview. “We’re
now thinking that this year is a great time to get that momentum
accelerated, to reach out to a broader group of customers.”  The Titan, which has an 8-megapixel camera with dual-led
flash and a wide-angle lens, will sell for 599 euros ($855),
while the Radar costs 399 euros. HTC is in talks with retailer
and operators, Seiche said, adding that the phones will be
broadly available in Europe.  New Functions  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , announced Windows
Phone in February 2010, jettisoning an earlier system called
Windows Mobile. The newest version,  announced  in May, adds more
functions such as face detection in photos, extended voice
recognition for writing, and support for 15 additional European
and Asian languages. Mango also lets users synchronize Microsoft
Office documents with cloud versions in Microsoft’s Office 365
and SkyDrive, and improves integration with corporate
directories and e-mail systems.  Nokia Oyj, the world’s biggest mobile-phone maker by
volume, adopted Windows Phone 7 as its primary smartphone
platform in February, saying that it will give the Finnish phone
company and its developers more opportunities to produce
distinctive products than Google’s Android, which was also
considered. Microsoft on May 24 announced handset agreements
with Acer Inc., Fujitsu Ltd. and ZTE Corp., as well as 500
features to be added in the fall release of Windows Phone 7.  ‘It Takes Times’  “This is a completely new platform, it takes time,” said
Berg. “It took time with Android, it took time with Apple. We
have to show that we’re very capable and that we have the
fastest and easiest phone.”  In April, Gartner forecast that the Android operating
system will have the largest smartphone market share during the
next four years, rising from 23 percent in 2010 to 49 percent in
2015. Apple’s iOS is predicted to grow from 16 percent to 17
percent, while Microsoft’s share will go from 4.2 percent in
2010 to 19.5 percent in 2015. IDC in June predicted that
Microsoft may hold a 20.3 percent market share in 2015.  Windows Phone’s base of application developers will also
increase following  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s decision to stop
selling devices with its WebOS software, Berg said. Hewlett-
Packard said last month that it’s considering licensing or
selling off WebOS, which it acquired in its purchase of Palm
Inc. last year.  Third-party applications helped make Apple’s iPhone the
most profitable smartphone as users flocked to a handset with a
slick touch screen and an online store that has grown to more
than 425,000 games and other programs. Google’s Android system,
supported by dozens of manufacturers, also lured developers and
became the  best-selling  smartphone system this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  