-- 
Middle East-Asia Supertanker Rents Plunge on Higher Fuel Costs

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:45:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/middle-east-asia-supertanker-rents-plunge-on-higher-fuel-costs.html
Rental income from shipping Middle
East crude oil to  Asia , the world’s busiest route for
supertankers, plunged to the lowest level in 10 days, as fuel
costs rise and a surplus of tankers remains.  Daily returns for very large crude carriers on the
benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage plunged to minus $1,455,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London today. That’s the
fourth straight day of negative daily earnings, after climbing
to a positive $2,037 on Aug. 23, according to the exchange.  “The main reason that we can see, is simply a result of
the rise in bunker fuel costs,” David Speakman, a broker of
physical cargoes at London-based shipbroker Galbraith’s Ltd.,
said by e-mail. “A jump of almost $10 makes a difference.”  The price of ship fuel, or bunkers, has risen 30 percent
this year to $661.59 a metric ton, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide. Rental income can rise by
reducing ship speed on a return journey after a vessel has
unloaded its cargo, saving fuel costs.  Charter rates for VLCCs, each able to haul 2 million
barrels of crude, on the benchmark voyage dropped 0.6 percent to
46.94 Worldscale points, according to the exchange. The points
are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat rate, for more than
320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for every voyage, quoted in
U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually by the Worldscale
Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel costs, port
tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, an overall measure of
shipping crude oil that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs,
decreased 0.3 percent to 677 points, according to the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  