-- 
Limited, Wet Seal Beat Estimates on Back-to-School Sales

-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z
-- 
2011-09-01T20:40:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/limited-wet-seal-sales-top-analysts-estimates-on-back-to-school-shopping.html
Retailers including Limited Brands
Inc. and  Wet Seal Inc. (WTSLA)  reported August sales that beat analysts’
estimates, helped by back-to-school shopping, while closings
forced by Hurricane Irene hurt department-store traffic.  Limited, operator of the Victoria’s Secret chain, posted an
11 percent gain in same-store sales, topping the 8 percent
average estimate of analysts surveyed by Retail Metrics Inc.
Sales at Wet Seal, the young women’s clothing retailer, rose 5.5
percent, beating the average estimate for a 4.7 percent gain.  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  Saks Inc. (SKS)  and other retailers closed locations
along the East Coast as Hurricane Irene flooded roads, shut
airports and cut power to more than 8 million homes and
businesses. The storm struck the weekend before the Labor Day
holiday, traditionally a key time for back-to-school shopping,
Retail Metrics said in the report.  “Overall, back-to-school sales are strong,” Jennifer Davis, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in  New York , said in
an interview. “But it’s difficult for department stores to
recover from that closure, especially during such a key shopping
weekend.”  Topping Estimates  Same-store sales at the 24 retailers tracked by Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics rose 5.5 percent, topping
analysts’ estimates for a 5 percent gain.  Saks posted same-store sales that rose 6.1 percent,
trailing the average estimate for an 8 percent gain. Sales at
J.C. Penney Co. Inc., the Plano, Texas-based retailer, fell 1.9
percent, compared with an estimated gain of 1.3 percent. Macy’s
sales climbed 5 percent, topping the 4.3 percent average
estimate.  Limited, based in Columbus,  Ohio , dropped 67 cents to
$37.07 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
 Foothill Ranch , California-based Wet Seal fell 12 cents to
$4.92. Cincinnati-based Macy’s rose 54 cents to $26.49, while
New York-based Saks dropped 18 cents to $9.50. J.C. Penney fell
37 cents to $26.26.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  were hard-hit in August. Sales at
Gap, the largest U.S. apparel chain, dropped 6 percent, compared
with analysts’ estimates of a 3.9 percent decline. Kohl’s sales
fell 1.9 percent, compared with expectations for a 1.7 percent
gain.  Gap Still Struggling  San Francisco-based Gap is still struggling to “find its
footing” and release fashions that resonate with its audience,
Retail Metrics said in a report today. Kohl’s, based in
 Menomonee Falls ,  Wisconsin , was hurt by “uninspiring” back-to-
school selections, Retail Metrics said.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to the lowest in
more than two years in August as Americans’ outlooks for
employment, incomes and business conditions soured. The
Conference Board’s index slumped to 44.5, the weakest since
April 2009, from a revised 59.2 reading in July, figures from
the New York-based private research group showed last month.  The U.S. unemployment rate was 9.1 percent in July, and has
been 9 percent or higher for 25 of the past 27 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  