-- 
Impala Platinum in Talks With Zimbabwe as Deadline Expires

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-09-01T16:29:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/impala-platinum-in-talks-with-zimbabwe-as-deadline-expires.html
Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) , the
world’s second-largest producer of the metal, said it’s in talks
with Zimbabwe’s government as the deadline for the company to
revise local ownership proposals expired.  Impala declined to say whether it submitted revised
proposals, commenting in an e-mailed response to questions late
yesterday.  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , which also has mines in the
country, declined to comment, Gavin Mackay, a spokesman, said
today by phone from  London .  Zimbabwe, which has the world’s largest platinum reserves
after  South Africa , passed a law this year forcing foreign
companies to cede at least 51 percent of their local assets to
black Zimbabweans. Impala and Aquarius had until Aug. 31 to
revise proposals that the government has rejected. Impala is
spending $460 million expanding its Ngezi mine in the country
and co-owns the Mimosa mine with Aquarius.  It’s disappointing that Impala faces ultimatums in the
country where it’s been a “model investor” for about 10 years,
Chief Executive Officer  David Brown  said earlier this month. The
company, based in Johannesburg, won’t hand control of its
Zimbabwean operations to the government, he said.  Anglo American Plc’s platinum unit, the world’s largest
producer, declined to say whether it had proposals rejected by
the government.  “Anglo American Platinum Ltd. is in on-going negotiations
with the Zimbabwe government to find a mutually acceptable
empowerment proposal for its Unki Mine in Zimbabwe,” the
Johannesburg-based company said in an e-mailed response to a
query today.  Anglo started up the Unki mine late last year when it said
production would gradually increase to 65,000 ounces of refined
platinum a year in the fourth quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  