-- 
India Weekly Food Inflation Quickens, Sustaining Pressure on Central Bank

-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 
2011-09-01T06:31:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/india-weekly-food-inflation-quickens-sustaining-pressure-on-central-bank.html
India ’s food inflation accelerated
to a four-month high and exports surged, sustaining pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates  even as growth slows.  An index measuring wholesale prices of farm products
including rice and wheat rose 10.05 percent in the week ended
Aug. 20 from a year earlier, the commerce ministry said in an e-
mailed statement in New Delhi today. Merchandise shipments
jumped 81.8 percent to $29.3 billion in July from a year earlier,
a separate report showed, the biggest increase since at least
April 1995, according to Bloomberg data.  Gains in food prices have kept India’s inflation rate the
highest among major economies in  Asia , prompting central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao to boost borrowing costs at a record
pace since mid-March 2010. While easing economic growth in the
region has led nations from Malaysia to the Philippines to pause
rate increases, the  Reserve Bank  of India said last week price
gains may remain “stubborn.”  “Inflation, including food prices, are still way above the
central bank’s comfort level,” Jay Shankar, the Mumbai-based
chief economist at Religare Capital Markets Ltd., said before
the report. “The RBI has no choice but to go ahead with rate
hikes.”  He expects the Reserve Bank to raise its repurchase rate by
a quarter of a percentage point to 8.25 percent in the Sept. 16
policy meeting. Subbarao has boosted the Reserve Bank’s
benchmark rate by 325 basis points since mid-March 2010, the
fastest round of increases since the central bank was
established in 1935, Bloomberg data show.  Inflation Rate  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation was 9.22
percent in July. Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in  China , 4.61
percent in Indonesia, 4.7 percent in  South Korea  and 4.08
percent in  Thailand  that month.  Asian nations are juggling the need to contain inflation
against protecting their economies from a faltering U.S.
recovery and  Europe ’s debt crisis. In India, gross domestic
product rose 7.7 percent in the three months ended June 30 from
a year earlier, a report showed this week, less than a 7.8
percent gain in the previous three months.  Favorable monsoon rains may help moderate inflation, Indian
Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee said Aug. 16.  A revival in rainfall in August helped the nation erase a
deficit in precipitation in July, the weather office said last
month. India aims to boost food-grain output to a record 245
million metric tons in the year that began July 1 after
harvesting an estimated 241.56 million tons the previous year,
according to the farm ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 