-- 
Indian Court Says IFCI’s Appropriation of GTL Shares Not Correct

-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T14:42:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/indian-court-says-ifci-s-appropriation-of-gtl-shares-not-correct.html
An Indian court has ruled that the
appropriation of  GTL Infrastructure Ltd. (GTLI) ’s shares by state-owned
 IFCI Ltd. (IFCI)  in July was an incorrect move as the lender didn’t
give prior notice before taking control of the stock pledged as
collateral for a loan.  The IFCI’s “appropriation of 176,368,219 shares to himself
without notice is not correct,” Judge  Manmohan Singh  wrote in
the Aug. 29 interim  order  posted on the court’s website. The
lender is entitled to sell the shares after issuing a “valid
notice”, according to the order.  IFCI moved to take control of the shares after  GTL Ltd. (GTS) ,
parent of the company that owns telecommunication towers used by
mobile-phone operators, failed to pledge the required number of
additional shares following a 58 percent decline in GTL
Infrastructure’s price. GTL had pledged about 29 percent of the
unit’s stake for a loan, according to a company statement.  “It has always been our view that the shares appropriated
by IFCI to itself have been done in contravention to the law,”
Rahul Desai, head of legal at GTL said in an e-mail statement
yesterday. The collateral security was to be kept in a non-
disposal escrow account, according to the statement.  IFCI spokeswomen Pooja Mahajan and Anita Sahoo didn’t
respond to e-mails. Two calls made to their offices weren’t
answered.  IFCI started selling 200,000 GTL Infrastructure shares
pledged by GTL on July 18, according to a July 26 filing to the
stock exchange.  GTL rose 0.2 percent to 50.05 rupees at the 3:30 p.m. close
of trading on Aug. 30 in Mumbai. GTL Infrastructure fell 0.8
percent to 12.4 rupees. The stock market was closed yesterday
and today on account of religious holidays.  GTL said on July 27 that  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC)  had taken over a
29 percent stake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
PS Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  