-- 
MIT, Princeton Bonds Lead Harvard to Top in August Safety Bid

-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-09-01T16:49:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/mit-beats-harvard-princeton-investment-grade-bonds-to-top-august-returns.html
Debt from  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology ,  Princeton University  and  Harvard University  were the
top performing U.S. investment-grade bonds in August as the
highest-rated securities lured investors concerned that the
economy is slowing.  The bonds, which trade above 120 cents on the dollar,
rallied at least 9 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. MIT’s $750 million of 100-year bonds gained
the most, jumping to 121.9 cents on the dollar on Aug. 26 from
104 cents in July, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Taxable debt from some of the world’s rich educational
institutions, graded Aaa by Moody’s Investors Service and AAA by
 Standard & Poor’s , is being viewed as a haven as economists cut
growth forecasts and  consumer confidence  plunges to the lowest
in more than two years. Debt with the top credit grades rallied
2.3 percent, while speculative-grade debt lost 4 percent in
August, the worst month since November 2008, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show.  “ Risk aversion , a flight to quality and also with S&P
downgrading Treasuries to AA+, I think it’s enhanced the bid for
AAA securities because there aren’t that many left,” said  James Lee , a senior analyst at Calvert Investments, which oversees
$14.5 billion, in Bethesda,  Maryland . MIT, Princeton and Harvard
have “a strong franchise, a long, long history of operating
performance with substantial tuition revenue and a relatively
light debt load,” he said.  Trailing Treasuries  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s U.S. Corporates, AAA Rated
index has a market value of $60 billion and makes up 1.6 percent
of the broader investment-grade index, the data show.  Returns on the AAA securities in August surpassed overall
investment-grade debt, which rose 0.1 percent and trailed
Treasuries, which gained 2.8 percent.  U.S. government bonds advanced even after S&P lowered the
U.S.’s credit rating to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5, saying the
government is becoming “less stable, less effective and less
predictable.”  “The whole theme of the last four months has been a flight
to quality,” Lee said.  Harvard’s endowment was the biggest in the  Ivy League , at
$27.6 billion, followed by Yale with $16.6 billion and Princeton
with $14.4 billion as of June 30, 2010, according to Bloomberg
rankings. MIT is not an Ivy League school.  Princeton’s $500 million of senior unsecured 5.7 percent
debt due in 2039 gained 10.2 percent to 123.4 cents on the
dollar, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. These
bonds yielded 4.3 percent on Aug. 17, Trace data show.  Harvard’s $500 million of 6.5 percent bonds maturing the
same year rallied 9.8 percent to 136.4 cents on the dollar, the
index data show.  MIT, the Cambridge, Massachusetts-based school which counts
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and former U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  as alumni, sold the bonds in
May to support capital projects and to refinance outstanding
debt, according to preliminary offering documents.  The yield of MIT’s 100-year bonds fell to 4.58 percent on
Aug. 26 from 5.38 percent on July 8, according to Trace.  Harvard, located in Cambridge Massachusetts, sold its notes
in December 2008 to repay commercial paper, while Princeton,
located in Princeton,  New Jersey , followed in January 2009 with
proceeds slated for working capital, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  