-- 
Italy Evasion Crackdown to Offset Dropped Tax, Tremonti Says

-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 
2011-09-01T17:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/italy-evasion-crackdown-to-offset-dropped-tax-tremonti-says.html
A planned crackdown on  tax evasion 
to be added to the government’s 45.5 billion-euro ($65 billion)
austerity plan will offset lost revenue from a levy on higher
earners dropped from the package, Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti  said.  Tremonti said the changes won’t create a shortfall in the
plan that seeks to balance the budget in 2013. He made the
comments after presenting a series of amendments to the package
today in the Senate in  Rome .  The government first announced the plan on Aug. 5 in a bid
to get the  European Central Bank  to buy its bonds after
contagion from the region’s debt crisis sent its borrowing costs
to euro-era highs. Italy is trying to convince investors that
speeding plans to eliminate its deficit will help reduce the
euro region’s second-biggest debt at almost 120 percent of gross
domestic product.  The tax-evasion crackdown will include mandatory jail time
for people caught evading tax bills of more than 3 million
euros. Local government will be given an incentive to go after
tax evaders by being allowed to keep recovered funds. They will
also be permitted to make public tax returns to try to expose
evasion. Taxpayers will also have to name their banks on their
returns.  The National Statistics Institute estimated that in 2008
there was more than 275 billion euros of undeclared income in
 Italy .  ‘Solidarity’ Tax  The crackdown aims to offset the impact of dropping a so-
called solidarity tax from the plan. The government originally
intended to make people pay an additional 5 percent tax on
income of more than 90,000 euros and 10 percent on income of
more than 150,000 euros. That measure was dropped this week
after protests from Berlusconi’s key coalition partner, the
 Northern League , which also convinced Berlusconi to abandon
pension changes added to the plan only two days earlier.  Vladimir Pillonca, an economist at Societe Generale SA in
 London , estimates the changes adopted this week will leave the
package 7 billion euros short of the 45.5 billion-euro deficit
reduction goal.  The amendments Tremonti presented today include turning
over the proceeds from a tax surcharge on profits of energy
companies to regional government to help offset cuts in transfer
payments from the central government. The government this week
also reduced by 1.8 billion euros the cuts in funding for the
regions after a backlash from local leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  