-- 
Jane Fonda Tried Threesomes With Vadim, Overcame Bulimia: Books

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/jane-fonda-tried-threesomes-overcame-bulimia-adopted-black-girl-books.html
To celebrate her 60th birthday, Jane Fonda wanted to make a video about her life.  “Why don’t you just get a chameleon and let it crawl
across the screen?” her daughter, Vanessa, sarcastically
suggested.  That anecdote in Patricia Bosworth’s no-holds-barred
biography, “ Jane Fonda: The Private Life of a Public Woman ,”
aptly sums up the mercurial movie star, sex symbol, social
activist, exercise guru and trophy wife.  The daughter of Hollywood legend Henry Fonda has had more
reincarnations than Shirley MacLaine. Her three husbands --
filmmaker Roger Vadim, political firebrand Tom Hayden and media
tycoon  Ted Turner  -- reflect the scope of her interests, not to
mention her lifelong search to fill the emotional void left by
her prickly relationship with her distant father.  Bosworth writes about all aspects of Fonda’s life, from her
struggles with bulimia and guilt over her mother’s suicide to
death threats resulting from her trip to Hanoi during the
 Vietnam War .  Fonda’s antiwar activities in the 1970s, along with her
support of the Black Panthers, Native Americans and other left-
wing causes, gets extensive coverage in the book.  Her 1972 visit to  Hanoi , where she denounced U.S. President
 Richard Nixon  as a war criminal and was photographed sitting on
a North Vietnamese anti-aircraft gun, led to accusations of
treason (she was tagged “Hanoi Jane”) and a congressman’s call
for her tongue to be cut off.  Sex Adventures  Fonda apologized for the picture years later, telling ABC’s
Barbara Walters that it “was a thoughtless, careless thing to
do knowing the power of images.”  The actress wasn’t as strong-willed in her personal life as
she was with her politics. She tolerated years of womanizing by
all three of her husbands -- who knew that homely Hayden was a
Lothario? -- before the marriages crumbled.  Fonda was especially pliant with Vadim, agreeing
(reluctantly, at first) to share their bed with other women and
selected couples, including a one-time fling with  Dennis Hopper 
and his then-wife Brooke Hayward. She even solicited ladies for
their threesomes and had affairs she would describe to Vadim,
according to the book.  Bosworth, a former actress who first met Fonda when they
were students at the prestigious Actors Studio in the early
1960s, is sympathetic to Fonda. She doesn’t fawn, however.  The bio includes unflattering stories that point out some
of Fonda’s less admirable traits, including her obsession with
money and looks. (She’s had several plastic surgeries and still
fretted about finances even after she was extremely wealthy.)  Oscar-Winning Roles  Bosworth does a fairly standard review of Fonda’s movie
career, from her futuristic sex-goddess in Vadim’s
“ Barbarella ” to her Oscar-winning roles as a disillusioned
hooker in “ Klute ” and a military officer’s wife who falls in
love with a disabled Vietnam vet in “ Coming Home .”  Fonda finally got to work with her father in “ On Golden
Pond ,” which earned  Henry Fonda  his only acting Oscar just four
months before his death in 1982.  The film had special resonance for Jane because it
portrayed a thorny father-daughter relationship much like the
one she had with her own dad. Henry Fonda cast a huge shadow
over Jane, who was always tormented by his lack of affection.  “I dream about him,” she told Bosworth. “Wonder if he’d
approve of what I’m doing now.”  For many years Jane had problems connecting with Vanessa
(her daughter with Vadim) and stepdaughter Nathalie Vadim. She
was closer to Troy, her son with Hayden, and Lulu, a black girl
she informally adopted during her marriage to Hayden.  Now 73 and single, Fonda is still evolving. In her senior
years, she has become a born-again Christian, made a movie
comeback in “Monster-in-Law,” beaten  breast cancer  and turned
into a doting grandmother.  With Jane Fonda, there’s no telling what comes next.  “Jane Fonda” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt
($30, 596 pages). To buy the book in  North America , click  here .  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 