-- 
Katia Prompts Oil-Platform Evacuations in Gulf, Weakens to Tropical Storm

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n   a n d   C h a r l o t t e   P o r t e r
-- 
2011-09-01T22:29:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/katia-becomes-second-hurricane-of-atlantic-season-as-it-heads-across-ocean.html
A low-pressure system in the Gulf of
 Mexico  that will probably strengthen into a storm within two
days is shutting down some oil and gas output, while Katia
weakened to a tropical storm in the Atlantic.  The Gulf system has an 80 percent chance of becoming a
tropical depression or storm in the next 48 hours as it moves
northwestward, the National Hurricane Center said in  an advisory 
at 2 p.m. Eastern time.  “Parts of the  Gulf of Mexico ’s offshore oil- and gas-
producing areas could experience gales for four or five days,”
said  Joe Bastardi , chief meteorologist for New York-based
WeatherBell Analytics. He said the system “will be very slow to
move before finally making up its mind to move out of the area”
and its path is still unknown.  BP Plc,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and
 Noble Corp. (NE)  began evacuations from Gulf rigs and platforms. The
system is over the central Gulf and stretches from Louisiana to
the  Florida Panhandle .  The storm has shut 5.7 percent of Gulf oil production and
2.4 percent of the natural gas output, according to the  Bureau
of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement . The Gulf
is home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output and 6.5 percent of the
country’s natural gas production.  Possible Category 3  Meteorologists led by  Matt Rogers  at Commodity Weather
Group in Bethesda,  Maryland , said in a note to clients today
that the system has a 30 percent chance of becoming a Category 3
major hurricane.  CWG said there are still “significant uncertainties”
about the disturbance’s path and how it will interact with land
and other weather systems.  MDA EarthSat Weather  put the odds of
a major storm at 10 percent.  At AccuWeather Inc. in  State College ,  Pennsylvania , the
forecast called for “an extensive, slow-moving system, capable
of affecting the same area for days with downpours, stormy seas
and rough surf conditions,” Alex Sosnowski, expert senior
meteorologist, said on the company’s website. Ten to 20 inches
(25 to 51 centimeters) of rain may fall on the north-central
coast, he said.  Flood Watch  The National Weather Service issued a flash-flood watch for
 New Orleans  through the weekend. The hurricane center said the
system is already producing thunderstorms and gusty winds in the
region.  BP said it will remove all workers from Gulf platforms by
tomorrow. Yesterday the company began removing more than 500
non-essential workers from some platforms in the Southern Green
Canyon area, according to a message on the company’s hurricane
hot line.  Diamond Offshore is evacuating the jack-up rig Ocean Titan
and non-essential staff from two other Gulf rigs “out of an
abundance of caution,” according to Les Van Dyke, director of
investor relations for the company. About 200 people will be
evacuated today and tomorrow, he said.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , said it is
shutting all eight of its Gulf facilities, and The Hague-based
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is evacuating workers from most of its
Gulf operations and shutting in some production.  Exxon,  ConocoPhillips (COP)   Exxon Mobil, based in Irving, Texas, said it was evacuating
140 workers from Gulf platforms and shutting in 11,000 barrels
per day of liquids production, as well as 60 million cubic feet
of natural gas production. Switzerland-based Noble Corp. was
evacuating about 300 workers from three of five active rigs in
the Gulf.  ConocoPhillips, based in Houston, evacuated all workers
from the Magnolia platform in the Gulf of Mexico and shut in
production, which averaged 5,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day
last year.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Garden Banks Gas Pipeline LLC and Stingray
Pipeline Co. removed workers from natural gas platforms ahead of
the storm. El Paso Corp.’s Southern Natural Gas evacuated
workers from two supply points, reducing gas production by about
43 million cubic feet a day.  Bastardi compared the Gulf disturbance to 1985’s Hurricane
Juan, which spent five days over the water. Juan caused $1.5
billion in damage in  Louisiana , the  hurricane center said .  Louisiana  The Terrebonne and South Lafourche levee districts in
Louisiana have closed floodgates ahead of the storm, state
Governor Bobby Jindal said in an e-mailed statement. The state
Department of Wildlife and Fisheries is securing equipment and
preparing response teams, he said.  In the Atlantic, Hurricane Katia weakened to a tropical
storm about 930 miles (1,495 kilometers) east of the northern
Leeward Islands, the NHC said in  an advisory  at about 4:30 p.m.
New York time. The storm’s maximum sustained winds fell to 70
miles per hour, down from 75 mph earlier today, the center said.  “Some re-strengthening is forecast during the next 48
hours,” the center said. “Swells generated by Katia will be
affecting the Lesser Antilles by late Friday.”  Katia was a Category 1 storm on the five-step Saffir-
Simpson scale. It is the 11th named storm of the  Atlantic
hurricane season  that runs from June through November. The
hurricane center’s  forecast path  shows Katia north of Puerto
Rico, east of the Bahamas and south of  Bermuda  by Sept. 6.  A shift westward for Katia, currently forecast to turn
north and out to sea eventually, may bring it to land in eastern
 Canada , AccuWeather said. Canada’s Atlantic region, a major
gasoline supplier for the Northeast, exported 469,704 cubic
meters (2.96 million barrels) of the fuel in May.  The center is also monitoring a low-pressure system 360
miles north of Bermuda. The system will begin moving
northeastward at 10 to 15 mph later today and has a 50 percent
chance of becoming a tropical cyclone in the next 48 hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net ;
Charlotte Porter in New York at 
 cporter11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  