-- 
Kenyan Officials Accused of Post-Election Murder Begin Pre-Trial at Hague

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-09-01T16:21:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/kenyan-officials-accused-of-post-election-murder-begin-pre-trial-at-hague.html
The  International Criminal Court 
began a pretrial hearing today of three Kenyans, including
presidential aspirant  William Ruto , accused of committing crimes
against humanity during violence after elections in 2007.  The public hearing in The Hague will determine whether
Ruto, 44, lawmaker  Henry Kosgey , 64, and radio host Joshua arap
Sang, 35, will face charges of murder, forced displacement and
persecution, or have their cases dismissed because of
insufficient evidence.  An estimated 1,500 people were killed in  East Africa ’s
richest nation in two months of ethnic violence that followed a
disputed presidential election in December 2007. The worst of
the fighting stopped after President Mwai Kibaki, an ethnic
Kikuyu, signed a power-sharing accord with his political foe
 Raila Odinga , a Luo by tribe, who was named as prime minister.  “Ruto, Kosgey and Sang are individually responsible for
the widespread attack,” Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo
told the court today. “They provided weapons, funds, money and
land to those who participated.”  David Hooper, a lawyer for Ruto, said the prosecution’s
investigation is erroneous. The chief prosecutor failed to probe
evidence that may clear Ruto, Hooper told the three-judge panel
presided by Ekaterina Trendafilova of  Bulgaria .  Growth Plunged  The fighting caused economic growth in  Kenya , which is
primarily reliant on tea and tourism revenue, to plunge to 1.7
percent in 2008 from 7.1 percent a year earlier. The government
forecasts expansion at 5.3 percent this year.  The court is scheduled to start another pre-trial hearing
on Sept. 21 for a second group of accused, including Finance
Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , Francis Muthaura, head of the civil
service, and former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali. All six
men have said they are innocent of the accusations.  Moreno-Ocampo  alleges  that Kenyan opposition party
supporters of mainly the Kalenjin tribe, led by Ruto, carried
out “widespread and systematic” attacks using guns and crude
weapons against Kikuyu, Kamba and Kisii people, who they
believed supported Kibaki’s  Party of National Unity .  Those assaults left almost 250 people dead and displaced
about 40,000 more, according to a statement on the ICC’s
website. Kosgey, as deputy leader and treasurer, allegedly
managed funds, while Sang spread hate messages about the Kikuyu
group and inflamed tensions via the radio, according to the ICC
statement.  Ruto, whom Kibaki fired as higher education minister last
week, said he intends to run for president in the next general
election whether the ICC charges are confirmed or dropped, the
Nairobi-based Sunday Nation newspaper reported on Aug. 28.  A ruling on the pre-trial hearing that began today is
expected within 60 days after it closes, according to a
statement by the ICC published in the newspaper the same day.  The cases ICC-01/09-01/11 and ICC-01/09-02/11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net ;
Jurjen van de Pol in  The Hague  at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 