-- 
Kodak’s Revival Effort Came Five Years Too Late, Perez Says

-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 
2011-09-02T13:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/kodak-loses-customers-to-hp-as-ceo-perez-s-turnaround-stalls.html
When Jim Lucanish was shopping for
new inkjet presses for his Los Angeles printing company, he
considered buying from  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  After all, Kodak sells
widely admired digital imaging technology. On the other hand,
Lucanish knew the company’s six-year-old turnaround effort was
faltering, and that gave him pause.  “I was really nervous about what was going to happen,” he
said. “They’re burning through a lot of cash.” In the end
Lucanish went with  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and recently bought a
fifth HP press, which starts at $1.8 million a pop. “We looked
at HP,” he said, “and they were a lot more stable.”  Such fears about Kodak’s viability threaten to overwhelm
Chief Executive Officer Antonio M. Perez’s efforts to rescue the
iconic American brand,  Bloomberg Businessweek  reports in its
Sept. 4 edition.  Since taking the reins in 2005, Perez has struggled to
shift the 131-year-old company into the Digital Age. Racing the
clock, he’s been managing the decline of the film business even
as he invests in the new product lines on which he’s betting the
company’s future: printers for consumers and printing and
imaging equipment for businesses. Vows the 65-year-old Perez:
“It’s a matter of time and execution, and we will get there.”  Fears of another recession, the lingering housing slump and
stock market volatility haven’t helped. The tough times have hit
corporate and  consumer spending , and rising commodity prices
have boosted Kodak’s costs. As a result, the company is burning
through the cash it needs to remake itself. That prompted Perez
in July to put about 1,100 of the company’s patents on the
block, which could raise as much as $3 billion.  Humbling Turnabout  That’s a humbling turnabout for the inventor of the
Instamatic camera, which once handily dominated its industry.
Efforts to protect its film and photo-finishing franchise, which
as recently as 2004 generated most of its revenue, proved
Kodak’s undoing. In 1975, the Rochester, New York-based company
invented the digital camera -- then stuck it in a safe lest it
destroy its lucrative film business.  By the time Kodak was ready to unleash its digital prowess,
everyone from  Canon Inc. (7751)  to  Sony Corp. (6758)  was selling their own
digital cameras. Preoccupied with cutting costs, Kodak also fell
behind in inkjet printers. Perez says the revival effort came
five years too late and Kodak now finds itself “competing with
companies that are cash-rich and well-managed,” including HP
and Canon.  Perez says his strategy can work because most commercial
printers still use old-fashioned gear and will have to go
digital in coming years. While more and more people consume
media on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other portable devices, printing
is here to stay -- from annual reports to direct mail.  Highly Regarded  Kodak’s technology also is highly regarded. The Kodak
Prosper inkjet press installed last year by Fenske Media in
Rapid City,  South Dakota , “reproduces pictures like no other
device does,” according to Vice President Dean Fenske.  Selling lots of commercial presses means Kodak can make
money on ink and other supplies, plus long-term service
contracts. Reluctant customers and fierce competition have so
far prevented Kodak from building a large enough installed base
to generate profits, says Eric Owen, vice-president in charge of
sales at Kodak’s commercial presses unit.  Rivals are keen to exploit Kodak’s image problems,
according to Owen. “They’re trying to create fear, uncertainty,
and doubt in my customer,” he said, declining to identify the
companies. When talking to potential buyers, Owen cites Kodak’s
technological advantages and 100 years of experience.  Neck and Neck  Kodak is competing neck and neck with the commercial
printing units of Ricoh Co. and Canon, with each company
accounting for 20 percent to 25 percent of global shipments,
says market research firm InfoTrends. HP, which is boosting
investment in commercial printing, is also growing fast.  Kodak’s consumer business faces its own challenges. Perez
has abandoned the prevailing business model -- the so-called
razor blade strategy whereby HP or Canon sell low-priced
printers and make money peddling ink cartridges. Kodak’s pitch
is that customers will save over the long haul because its ink
is far cheaper than rivals’ -- though they must pay more upfront
for its printers.  Even after Kodak cut prices last year, its units cost 14
percent more than HP’s machines on average, says market
researcher IDC. That’s a tough sell.  ‘Challenged Significantly’  “Customer buying behavior is pretty well established,”
says Tuan Tran, the vice president who runs HP’s consumer inkjet
printer unit. Kodak’s “ability to charge a premium has been
challenged significantly.”  Kodak had 5 percent of the U.S. market for consumer
printers in the first quarter, says IDC. Although that was up
from 3.5 percent a year earlier, Kodak still ranked fifth behind
HP, Canon, Seiko Epson Corp. and Brother International Corp.  “Like Sony, Kodak is not giving the consumer a reason to
purchase,” said Denise Lee Yohn, who runs an eponymous brand
consulting firm in  San Diego ,  California . “I don’t know that a
good brand halo helps if you don’t have the ability to convert
it into sales.”  Headwinds have forced Perez to take drastic action to shore
up dwindling cash reserves, which fell about 25 percent over the
past quarter, to $957 million. A couple of years ago he asked
phone and camera makers to pay to use Kodak patents that allow
people to preview an image before taking a photo.  Cough Up  He called CEOs to demand payment -- then sued when they
didn’t cough up. After extracting $1 billion from Samsung
Electronics Co and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  earlier this year, Perez
suffered a setback last month when the U.S. International Trade
Commission delayed a ruling on a similar case against Apple and
 Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  If Kodak wins, it stands to reap another
$1 billion in licensing fees, Perez says.  Kodak is headed for its sixth annual loss in the past seven
years, and its stock has slid almost 90 percent since Perez
became CEO. The shares fell 16 cents to $3.01 at 9:40 a.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. He vows to double
revenue in the new digital businesses by 2013. While Rafferty
Capital analyst  Mark Kaufman  says it may take several years for
Kodak to match the 15 percent operating profit margins earned by
the film unit in the late ’90s, Perez says the inkjet business
will show operating profit in 2012.  For now, he’s counting on selling patents to help make sure
the company doesn’t run out of cash. Perez is philosophical
about the challenges ahead. All you can do, he said, “is focus
your efforts and keep swimming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in New York at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  