-- 
Kotecki Says 4% Growth Gives Polish Budget Head Start for 2012

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-01T08:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/kotecki-says-4-growth-gives-polish-budget-head-start-for-2012.html
Poland’s economy will expand at a 4
percent rate this year, fast enough to shave 10 billion zloty
($3.45 billion) off its  budget deficit  and allow the government
to begin financing next year’s needs, Deputy Finance Minister
 Ludwik Kotecki  said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday.  On the budget deficit and borrowing needs:  “Based on this year’s solid economic growth and with
fiscal consolidation is on track, we estimate that the central
budget deficit will be at least 10 billion zloty less than
planned while the general government deficit will be narrower
than our target of 5.6 percent of gross domestic product.  “Since we’ve already met our funding needs for this year
with about 50 billion zloty of cash on hand, we have a real
opportunity to begin financing next year’s deficit. We’ll start
pre-financing for 2012 with our exchange offer auction in
September. Market conditions will determine which segments and
instruments we’ll tap, along with the scope of pre-financing.”  “The risks to economic growth in  Poland  are greater than
they were a few months ago due to the global slowdown. However,
these are external risks beyond our control. Still, we have
public investment running at about 6.6 percent of GDP, the
highest level in Europe and in our history, largely funded by
the European Union. This investment spending won’t start to
decline until 2013 and will help sustain GDP growth next year.
Preparations for the EURO 2012 soccer championships will also
act as a stimulus. Consumption growth should remain stable and I
don’t see any serious risk of a decline there.  “Our top priority remains to cut the general government
deficit to 3 percent of GDP. Any small decline in budget revenue
would be offset by greater savings to ensure that we meet the
European Commission’s expectations for deficit-reduction.  On economic growth:  “GDP growth at 4.3 percent was a pleasant surprise; the
pace and structure were both better than we expected. Above all,
we can finally see a recovery in fixed investment, as shown by
7.8 percent annual growth in the second quarter. By our
calculations, that means private investments increased 8 percent
in the second quarter, compared with 4 percent in the first. The
figures also show strong inventory growth and better export
performance than could have been expected based on preliminary
GDP data from the EU, especially  Germany . Private consumption
growth at 3.5 percent is a significant contributor to GDP growth
and doesn’t pose any inflation risk. Finally, we can see a
slowdown in public-sector demand, which is consistent with our
policy of fiscal consolidation.  “The second quarter and the whole first half of the year
reinforce our 4 percent GDP growth forecast for this year and
provide a solid basis for 2012. I don’t expect any significant
revisions to the economic forecasts for the 2012 budget, which
the government will confirm by the end of September.  On inflation, output:  “We expect the inflation rate to stabilize at about 4
percent, plus or minus 0.2 percentage point, over the new few
months. It should then take a clear dip below 4 percent at the
end of the year.  “August industrial output will be a bit higher than in
July, though it’s worth noting that the July reading wasn’t weak
at all when compared with Western  Europe . We can’t expect
double-digit output growth anymore because we’re no longer
getting a boost from a weak year-earlier base and because of the
slowdown on Poland’s main export markets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  