-- 
Kotecki Says Polish First-Half GDP ‘Gives Solid Basis’ for 2012 Growth

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-09-01T11:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/kotecki-says-polish-first-half-gdp-gives-solid-basis-for-2012-growth.html
Poland’s government is keeping its
estimate of about 4 percent economic growth this year, which
will help cut the budget gap to less than 5.6 percent of gross
domestic product, Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said.  GDP grew 4.3 percent in the second quarter from a year
earlier, more than economists expected, as the fastest
investment increase in 2 1/2 years outweighed slowing exports
and consumption. Poland, which has 50 billion zloty ($17.3
billion) in cash to cover expenses, may start to raise funds for
next year’s deficit, planned at 3 percent of GDP, compared with
last year’s 7.9 percent, Kotecki said.  Risks to economic growth in Poland, the European Union’s
only country to avoid recession in 2009, have increased as the
global economy slows, Kotecki said. Growth in the euro area,
which buys the majority of Polish exports, slowed to 0.2 percent
from the previous quarter in the April-June period, the worst
performance since 2009.  The Polish figures show that the economy “has enough
strength to shield against any potential slowdown,” Kotecki
said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “We estimate that the
central-government  budget deficit  will be at least 10 billion
zloty below plan, while the general government deficit will be
narrower than our target.”  Priorities  The zloty traded at 4.1476 per euro at 12:30 p.m. in
Warsaw, compared with a three-week high of 4.1278 late
yesterday.  The government’s priority is narrowing the deficit to
within the EU’s 3 percent of GDP limit and any decline in
revenue will be offset by savings to ensure reaching that goal,
Kotecki said.  A recovery in fixed investments, including an estimated 8
percent increase in private investments, as well as public
investments that are the highest in Europe and a record for
Poland, will secure Poland next year in case of an economic
slowdown, according to Kotecki. The Euro 2012 soccer
championships, which  Poland  is organizing together with Ukraine,
will also act as a stimulus, while consumption growth should
remain stable, he said.  “I don’t see any serious risk of a decline there,”
Kotecki said.  PMI Drops  The Polish purchasing managers’ index slowed to 51.8 from
52.9 in July, HSBC Holdings Plc said today in a survey by
London-based Markit Economics. The median estimate of 20
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was 51.6. A reading above 50
indicates growth.  The reading, the second-weakest since January 2010,
resulted from lower output growth, which slowed for the third
time in four months, according to Markit. It also reflects a
third successive monthly decline in new export orders “as the
domestic market continued to underpin expansion,” Markit said
in an e-mailed statement.  August industrial output, which Poland’s statistical office
will report on Sept. 19, will be “a bit higher than in July,”
Kotecki said, adding that “the 1.8 percent July reading wasn’t
weak at all” when compared with Western  Europe .  “We can’t expect double-digit output growth anymore
because we’re no longer getting a boost from a weak year-earlier
base and because of the slowdown on Poland’s main export
markets,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  