-- 
Naira Has 40% Devaluation Chance in 2012 on Oil, Imports, Renaissance Says

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-01T10:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/naira-has-40-devaluation-chance-in-2012-on-oil-imports-renaissance-says.html
Nigeria ’s currency has a 40 percent
probability of being devalued to 155 per dollar in 2012 on bets
oil prices may drop and as the government increases investments
in roads and rail, raising imports,  Renaissance Capital  said.  “The weakening global economic outlook implies there is
downside risk to the oil price, so we are of the view that
foreign reserves are likely to remain flat until the end of 2011
and the scope for a strong recovery in reserves in 2012 is now
smaller,” Yvonne Mhango, a Johannesburg-based economist at
Renaissance, wrote in a report today. The nation’s
“infrastructure program implies that demand for imported
capital equipment and machinery is likely to rise over the
short-to-medium term.”  The central bank of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer has been
using foreign-currency reserves to keep the naira within a 3
percentage-point band above or below 150 naira per dollar at its
bi-weekly auctions to help check inflation. It has failed to
meet lenders’ demand for foreign currency at 15 straight
auctions.  The naira, which weakened 1.2 percent in August, was 0.1
percent stronger in interbank trading at 154.65 per dollar as of
10:44 a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The nation’s foreign-currency reserves have slid 11 percent
to $32.9 billion in the year to Aug. 26, according to data from
the Abuja-based  Central Bank of Nigeria . The country relies on
crude exports for 95 percent of its foreign-exchange earnings.  Nigerian benchmark Bonny Light crude has risen 51 percent
over the same period.  Naira Growth ‘Bellwether’  “Contrary to our initial expectation of a steady accretion
of foreign reserves on the back of the sharp increase in the oil
price in the first quarter 2011 and a sustained high price
thereafter, foreign reserves have essentially moved sideways,”
Mhango wrote. “Nigeria’s heavy import dependence explains the
country’s high forex outflows. The country’s high import
dependence explains why the  exchange rate  is often the
bellwether for Nigeria’s economic health,” she wrote.  Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said in an Aug. 12
interview that her priority will be to find ways to meet
President Goodluck Jonathan’s goals of increasing investment in
 power plants , roads and agriculture to help diversify the
economy and create jobs.  Nigeria needs fiscal discipline to help keep the inflation
rate below 10 percent, after it slowed to 9.4 percent in July,
from 10.2 percent a month earlier, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  