-- 
Naspers Bets on $7 Pay-TV Package to Work Magic Across African Continent

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-09-02T15:43:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/naspers-s-greyling-bets-on-7-pay-tv-package-to-work-magic-across-africa.html
Naspers Ltd. (NPN)  will expand its pay-
television service to  Uganda  next week priced at about $7 a
month and roll out packages in other African countries to add
subscribers in an underserved market.  “The low-price packages are really meant to give someone
an opportunity to be a pay-TV subscriber and then hopefully to
scale them up to the higher-price packages,” Eben Greyling,
chief executive officer for pay-TV at Naspers, Africa’s largest
media company, said in an interview. “If you look at our
current penetration there is certainly much more room to grow.”  Naspers added 977,000 pay-TV subscribers in the year ended
March 31, taking its total to 4.9 million across the continent,
including 3.5 million in South  Africa . The expansion of the
African pay-TV market may be propelled by 221 million consumers
who will advance from poverty to earn annual incomes of $1,000
to $5,000 by 2015, according to McKinsey & Co. estimates. Last
month Naspers introduced a $7 a month package in Zambia. Before
Naspers, the country only had a state-owned broadcaster.  Naspers will use the low-priced package of 20 channels,
including access to the “Big Brother” show and Africa Magic
and Africa Magic+ film and music channels, to gain a mass market
for pay-TV, Greyling said by phone from Johannesburg. Among the
channels are news stations including BBC World, CNN and  Al
Jazeera , and entertainment and religious channels, he said.  “Our aim is to reduce the barriers to entry for customers
and we may even subsidize the price of decoders,” Greyling
said. Subscription prices will differ from country to country,
but will be around $7 a month, he said.  Decoders  The price of decoders will probably be about $50 or less,
Greyling said. He declined to give budget details and subscriber
targets.  In  South Africa , Cape Town-based Naspers has been offering
an entry-level package for more than two years that costs 20
rand ($2.86) a month. Naspers’s pay-TV operations include
 MultiChoice  and the  Supersport  sports channels.  The price of Naspers decoders in South Africa is 599 rand,
with installation costs included.  Telkom South Africa Ltd., On Digital Media, E-Sat and
Walking on Water (Pty) Ltd. each won a license in 2007 to
operate pay-TV stations in South Africa, ending Naspers’s 12-
year monopoly. Only On Digital Media’s Top TV has rolled out
services, and the cheapest package is 99 rand a month, according
to its  website .  Supersport  Naspers declined 1 percent to 366.79 rand at the 5 p.m.
close of Johannesburg trading. The stock has climbed 20 percent
in the past 12 months, beating the 9.6 percent gain in the
benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index.  The company’s interests include a stake in  Tencent Holdings
Ltd. (700) ,  China ’s biggest Internet company. Naspers acquired 28.7
percent of Russian Internet company Digital Sky Technologies
Ltd. last year, and in  Latin America  it purchased 68 percent of
classifieds business OLX.com.  Naspers’s pay TV-services will target the parts of Africa
where English and Portuguese are spoken, and not Francophone
Africa, Greyling said. “We’re hoping we’ll take the service to
the rest of the continent,” he said.  Across its markets, Naspers will use sport to lure users.
In the main markets of  Nigeria ,  Kenya  and South Africa,
Supersport is among the largest funders of local soccer leagues
and rugby, said Greyling.  Supersport is Africa’s largest sponsor of sport, Naspers
Chief Executive Officer Koos Bekker said on Nov. 30. In South
Africa it owns Premiership soccer side  Supersport United , which
has won the local top league three times.  “We’ll continue to produce as well as sponsor local sport
when subscriber numbers make it affordable,” said Greyling.  Pay television accounted for 21 billion rand of Naspers’s
sales in the financial year ended March 31, when the total was
33 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  