-- 
Netflix Falls as Streaming Talks With Malone’s Starz End

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-09-01T23:38:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/netflix-tumbles-as-streaming-talks-with-liberty-media-s-starz-channel-end.html
Starz LLC, the premium cable channel
controlled by billionaire  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp.,
ended contract renewal talks with  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  after failing to
reach terms for films online. Netflix fell.  Starz made the decision to “protect the premium nature of
our brand by preserving the appropriate pricing and packaging of
our exclusive and highly valuable content,” according to a
statement today.  If the deal lapses as scheduled on Feb. 28, Netflix will
completely lose online access to films from Sony Pictures and
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  Without Starz, the mail-order and online movie
service may lose up to 15 percent of its 25 million subscribers,
said  Michael Pachter , an analyst with Wedbush Securities in  Los
Angeles . That would be in addition to any defections resulting
from a price hike that took effect today.  “It’s a negotiating ploy, but an effective one since
Netflix simply cannot allow Starz to leave,” Pachter said in an
interview. “On the other hand, Starz needs to cut this deal”
to boost revenue.  Netflix had gained online access to newer films from Sony
and Disney through a streaming agreement with Englewood,
Colorado-based Starz, operator of the namesake and Encore cable
channels. Sony has already pulled its movies, after Starz
reached a cap in online viewing in June.  Netflix fell $20.02, or 8.6 percent, to $213.25 in extended
trading after the announcement. The shares retreated $1.74 to
$233.27 at 4:29 p.m. in regular  Nasdaq  Stock Market trading.  Liberty Media’s Starz tracking stock declined $1.54 to
$67.33 on the Nasdaq and was unchanged in extended trading.  Netflix Options  “We are confident we can take the money we had earmarked
for Starz renewal next year, and spend it with other content
providers to maintain or even improve the Netflix experience,”
 Steve Swasey , a spokesman for the Los Gatos, California-based
company, said in an e-mailed statement.  Theano Apostolou, a spokesman for Starz, declined to
comment beyond the statement.  The Starz announcement coincided with today’s effective
date for a new Netflix pricing arrangement that increases the
combined cost for its mail-order DVD and streaming service by 60
percent.  Movies from Starz have become less important since Netflix
has licensed other films and TV shows for online viewing, Swasey
said. Starz makes up about 8 percent of domestic Netflix
subscribers’ viewing, a share that is expected to decline to 5
percent to 6 percent in the first quarter, he said.  $300 Million  “While we regret their decision to let our agreement lapse
next February, we are grateful for the early notice of their
decision, which will give us time to license other content
before Starz expires,” Swasey said in the statement.  Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings said in June
it “wouldn’t be shocking” to pay $300 million a year, or 10
times more, to renew the Starz rights.  Most of the major studios have contracts with cable
networks that give them exclusive access to movies. Netflix must
wait for those contracts to end or negotiate with networks that,
like Starz, have online rights.  In June, Sony informed Starz it had reached a cap on the
number of movies that can be streamed online, ending its
contract and leaving Netflix customers without access to newer
films from that studio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  