-- 
Wilpon Talks With Einhorn for Mets Stake Collapse After Team Changes Terms

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-09-01T17:54:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/new-york-mets-study-options-as-talks-to-sell-stake-to-einhorn-fall-through.html
The Wilpon family ended discussions
to sell a share of the  New York Mets  to hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , who said the cash-strapped Major League Baseball team
scuttled negotiations by changing contract terms at the last
minute.  “There were many, many proposed modifications,” Einhorn
said on a conference call after the Mets released a statement
saying the club was ending talks and exploring other options.
“I was surprised to see that many of the basic provisions of
our deal had been changed.”  Einhorn offered $200 million for a 33 percent stake in the
Mets. The team’s principal owner,  Fred Wilpon , decided to sell a
minority share to defray costs from a $1 billion lawsuit filed
by the trustee representing investors who lost money in Bernard Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  Einhorn, speaking on a conference call with reporters
today, said the team initially agreed to include a provision
that provided for pre-approval from  Major League Baseball  if he
ever became the team’s majority owner, then reversed course.  After the Mets objected, Einhorn said he met with baseball
Commissioner  Bud Selig , who said it wouldn’t be a problem.  “Late last week, I learned that the Mets lobbied Major
League Baseball to remove it from the agreement,” Einhorn said,
adding that, under terms of the contract, he couldn’t gain
majority control of the club without the Mets’ approval.  The 42-year-old Einhorn, of Greenlight Capital Inc.,
declined to offer other examples of altered terms, citing
nondisclosure agreements.  Debt  The Mets are carrying $427 million in debt and may lose as
much as $70 million this year, Wilpon told  Sports Illustrated 
for a story published in May. The team needed an emergency $25
million loan from Major League Baseball last year.  The Mets are 65-69 this season, 22 games behind the
 Philadelphia Phillies  in the  National League East . They are
averaging 30,465 fans a game at Citi Field, ranking 14th out of
baseball’s 30 teams.  Picard Suit  Irving Picard , the trustee who is liquidating Madoff’s
business, is seeking to recover $295 million in alleged phony
profits made by Sterling Equities Inc., which Wilpon and Mets
co-owner Saul Katz set up and which owns the team, and as much
as $700 million in principal. Wilpon and Katz have said they
were duped by Madoff.  The Mets, in their statement today, said ownership is
providing more money to cover losses from this season and is not
under financial pressure to complete a sale on a particular
schedule.  “We are very confident in the team’s plans, both off and
on the field,” Wilpon, the team chairman and chief executive
officer, said in the statement. “We will engage with other
individuals, some who have been previously vetted by Major
League Baseball, along with other interested parties, regarding
a potential minority investment into the franchise.”  ‘Bite Size’ Stakes  The team probably will try an alternate way of raising
money, said Rob Tilliss, founder of the sports advisory firm
Inner Circle Sports in  New York .  “They will likely go out to the market now and try and
raise straight limited partner capital with small bite sizes,
which is difficult to get done,” Tilliss said in an e-mail.  Einhorn, who in May held a conference call to discuss his
investment in the team, had competition from three other
bidders, including Ray Bartoszek, a former commodities trader
with Glencore International Plc. Einhorn several times on the
conference call declined to speculate on ownership’s motivation
for changing agreed-upon terms.  Wilpon and Katz bought the Mets in 2002 for $391 million.
The team was valued at $747 million when Forbes magazine
released its annual list of franchises in March. That’s a drop
of 13 percent from last year’s estimate by Forbes, which said
the Mets had a negative operating income of $6.2 million in
2010.  Other Potential Investors  Among the investors who were reported to be interested in
the Mets were billionaire hedge-fund manager  Steve Cohen ,
founder of the $12 billion SAC Capital Advisors LP based in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . Cohen, 54, is ranked 114th on the Forbes
list of the world’s richest people. A group formed by hedge-fund
manager Anthony Scaramucci, the founder of New York-based
Skybridge Capital LLC, was reported by the New York Times also
to be interested in a minority stake.  The Wall Street Journal said Steve Starker, co-founder of
the trading company BTIG; Ken Dichter, co-founder of Marquis
Jets; and Douglas Ellin, creator of the HBO show “Entourage,”
were part of another group that was interested in bidding for
the Mets.  Einhorn wouldn’t say whether he would invest in or buy
another professional sports team.  “I wouldn’t expect anything in the near future,” he said.
“I guess you never say never.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  