-- 
Christie Is Sued by New Jersey Unions Over Pension, Health  Benefit Cuts

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-09-01T20:21:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/new-jersey-public-employeee-unions-sue-state-over-pension-health-benefits.html
New Jersey  public employee unions,
seeking to block a law reducing pension and health benefits,
sued Governor  Chris Christie  and other state officials.  More than 20 unions and individuals representing teachers,
firefighters, police officers and other public employees claim
the law enacted June 28 violates the U.S. and state
constitutions by forcing them to pay more for pensions and
health insurance. In a complaint in federal court in Trenton,
New Jersey, they asked a judge yesterday to block enforcement of
the law and order the state to fully fund the pension systems.  The law “illegally takes away benefits that school
employees and others have already earned through their service
to the people of New Jersey,” Barbara Keshishian, president of
the New Jersey Education Association, said in a statement on the
union’s website.  Christie, a first-term Republican, has made addressing the
state’s fiscal crisis a hallmark of his administration. Christie
has said he skipped a contribution to the state pension system,
which had a deficit of $53.9 billion in June 2010, because of
the recession. Skipped payments by previous governors were a
“contributing factor” to the current problems, he said.  “Another lawsuit won’t change the fact that the public
employee pension system was on a collision course with collapse
without the governor’s and the Legislature’s bipartisan
intervention,” a Christie spokesman,  Michael Drewniak , said in
a statement.  ‘Oblivious’ Union  “The union leadership is unaccountably oblivious to
that,” he said. “So, fine, file another lawsuit, keep your
heads in the sand and ignore the problem. We will defend as
necessary our pledge to fix the public employee pension system
for all employees, former, present and future.”  The law deprives workers of their due process rights by
suspending pension adjustments, increasing employees’
contributions, underfunding pensions and delegating to pension
committees an “unrestrained authority to reduce pension and
change eligibility requirements,” according to a copy of the
complaint on the education group’s website.  The complaint wasn’t immediately available through the
court.  Those suing seek to represent current and retired employees
in the pension system, estimating they number more than 802,000.  ‘Bait and Switch’  The legislation is a “classic bait and switch for current
retirees,” Keshishian said in the statement. “They’ve already
retired and are living on a fixed income. Now they’re being told
that the state is reneging on its promise.”  The legislation also raises the minimum  retirement age  to
65 from 62 and freezes annual cost-of-living adjustments. The
overhaul is aimed at restoring the state pension system to 80
percent funding in 30 years, up from the current 62 percent.  Workers will pay 3 percent to 35 percent of their health-
insurance premiums based on income. Christie’s initial proposal
sought to force all workers to pay 30 percent of the premium
cost by 2014.  One of the defendants is Senate President  Stephen Sweeney ,
a Democrat from West Deptford who sponsored the bill and is a
union organizer with the International Association of
Ironworkers. He said he expected the lawsuit.  “When we wrote the legislation, we really focused on being
sure that any law that got passed was constitutional,” he said.  Roots of Underfunding  Sweeney said that during the 1990s, New Jersey lowered
workers’ pension contributions at the same time it lowered the
retirement age legislatively, without guaranteeing funding to
support the moves.  With skipped payments into the fund for a decade and a 9
percent increase on pension payouts in 2001, the system was
stretched beyond repair, he said.  “This isn’t  Wisconsin ,” he said in an interview. ‘We
don’t hate our workers. What’s going on is that we have
structural problems in the pension system due to this lack of
payments by the state government but also through overly
generous benefits that were granted. We had to fix it.”  Sweeney said collective bargaining over health insurance
will return after four years and cost-of-living-adjustments will
resume when the fund is restored to health. He said the pension
overhaul created labor-management boards, did not reduce payouts
and required funding of future benefit increases.  The moves are designed to create a state system akin to
private-sector pensions regulated under the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, he said.  “The state doesn’t have the mathematical ability to keep
those promises,” Assembly Speaker Sheila Oliver, a Democrat
from  East Orange , said in an interview.  “We made promises to
provide people with health care for the rest of their lives
after they retire and we don’t have the money to pay for that. A
problem exists, and that problem has to be solved.”  The case is New Jersey Education Association v. State of
New Jersey, 11-05024, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco 
at   jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  