-- 
No GM Buyback or Dividend Seen as Pension Gap Freezes Cash: Cars

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/no-gm-buyback-or-dividend-seen-as-pension-gap-freezes-cash-cars.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , holding cash
until it learns the magnitude of retiree obligations at year-
end, may find a pension deficit that rivals its market valuation
and delays a buyback or dividend.  GM’s pension shortfall may reach $35 billion when
calculated using lower asset returns and a reduced rate for
valuing future payments, estimates Kenneth Hackel, president of
CT Capital LLC in Short Hills,  New Jersey . GM’s market
capitalization sank as low as $33.1 billion last month.  “The financial risk because of the pension is higher than
people understand,” said Hackel, who wrote two textbooks on
valuing securities. “The cold reality is if you used a
conservative discount rate and you wanted to close out the
plans, you would have to raise about $35 billion.”  The automaker’s pension plans have the biggest deficit
among U.S. companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The widening gap validates GM’s decision to wait before
returning cash to shareholders, said analysts such as Credit
Suisse AG’s Christopher Ceraso. Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has said it’s “imperative” that GM, the recipient of a
$49.5 billion government bailout, fully fund U.S. pensions.  GM, two years removed from bankruptcy court protection, may
fall further behind obligations even as it makes strides in the
marketplace. The Detroit-based automaker topped Toyota Motor
Corp. in first-half global vehicle sales and increased U.S.
market share to 20 percent this year through July from 19.2
percent a year earlier, aided by demand for the Chevrolet Cruze.  Pension Shortfall  Companies fell behind on funding pensions that cover future
payouts for retirees by the most this year in July and August,
according to Milliman Inc., which tracks the performance of the
100 largest corporate defined-benefit pensions. The slowing U.S.
economy lowered bond yields that determine the present value of
future obligations and the  Standard & Poor’s 500  Index’s biggest
drop since March 2009 hurt asset returns.  GM’s global pension plans were underfunded by $22.2 billion
at the end of 2010, according to its 10-K regulatory filing. The
shortfall for the U.S. was $12.4 billion. Those figures don’t
take into account a stock contribution of about $2.2 billion
that GM made to pensions in January.  The company’s pensions may be underfunded by $30.7 billion
by year-end, according to Ceraso, who is based in  New York  and
rates the automaker’s shares “outperform.” His projection in
an Aug. 18 report assumes that the discount rate for GM’s U.S.
pensions falls 50 basis points to about 4.5 percent and that
asset returns range from 0 percent to 2 percent.  ‘Otherworldly’ Risk  “That’s a reasonable number,” Glenn Reynolds, chief
executive officer of research firm CreditSights Inc., said of
the estimate in a phone interview. Reynolds called GM’s exposure
to pension risk “other worldly” in an Aug. 4 report.  The shortfall for GM’s U.S. pensions alone last year was
bigger than the deficit in any large-cap company’s global plan
except  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , whose market value is more than nine
times GM’s, according to CreditSights. Exxon’s global pensions
were underfunded by $13.1 billion at the end of last year.  There were 21 U.S. companies whose pensions were
underfunded by at least $3 billion last year, according to
Bloomberg data. Only  AMR Corp. (AMR)  and Delta Airlines Inc. have
plans that were underfunded by more than current market cap, the
data show. Aside from AMR and Delta, GM had the largest pension
deficit as a percent of market cap, at more than 60 percent.  Profitable Company  GM has reported six consecutive quarterly profits,
including $2.99 billion in the second quarter. The company
generated $4.37 billion cash from automotive operations in the
six months through June 30, boosting cash holdings in that part
of the company to $33.8 billion.  The growing cash pile has led analysts such as Himanshu Patel of JPMorgan Chase & Co. to speculate about stock buybacks.
The analysts have said such moves may alleviate concerns about
the U.S. Treasury Department flooding the market by unloading
its remaining stake of more than 500 million shares.  “We’re obviously in a very volatile asset environment and
a very volatile liability environment right now for the  pension
plan ,” Dan Ammann, GM’s Chief Financial Officer, said during an
Aug. 4 conference call. “We want to see what happens with that
through the end of the year. Beyond that, obviously we have an
objective to ultimately return cash to shareholders.”  JPMorgan’s Patel said in a May 6 report that GM was likely
to consider a stock repurchase from the U.S. government. He has
said in two August research reports that a buyback is unlikely
until at least 2012’s second half.  Difficult ‘Drain’  GM paid $9.15 billion in benefits last year, about 10
percent of the fair value of total fund assets. That rate of
“portfolio drain” is difficult to replace with asset returns
because GM has allocated more of its investment portfolio to
fixed income, CreditSights’ Reynolds said.  GM isn’t required to make contributions to its U.S. pension
plans this year, according to its 10-K filing. The automaker
doesn’t project required contributions until at least 2015 and
is evaluating whether to make additional voluntary inputs still
this year, according to the filing.  “We suspect GM will make a large voluntary contribution
late this year or early next year, as the company has frequently
repeated its conviction to ‘fully fund and de-risk’ its U.S.
pension plan,” Ceraso said in the Aug. 18 Credit Suisse report.  The U.S. took a 61 percent ownership of GM as part of the
automaker’s government-led bankruptcy reorganization in 2009.
The rescue protected the U.S. pensions of more than 120,000
retired salaried employees and 400,000 retired hourly workers,
most of which are represented by the  United Auto Workers .  Management ‘Responsibility’  Akerson, 62, told reporters before the company’s June 7
annual meeting in  Detroit  that he wanted GM’s U.S. pensions
funded within his tenure.  “Regardless of the government’s involvement with the
company longer term, how long that might be or not be, it’s
imperative that this management team assume that
responsibility,” Akerson said in a speech to shareholders.  GM’s goal to fully fund U.S. pensions in the next few years
may be unrealistic, said Hackel, whose firm CT Capital advises
institutional investors.  “It’s not the world we live in,” Hackel said. “Stocks
are down the last five years, and over the last 10 years. And,
of course, the most important metric that goes into actuarial
work is the discount rate.”  The discount rate is used to determine the present value of
future cash flows. The discount rate fell 31 basis points in
July alone, according to Seattle-based Milliman. A 25 basis-
point drop in the discount rate increases pension obligations by
$2.54 billion, according to GM’s 10-K.  Most Conservative  GM used a discount rate of 4.96 percent last year to
calculate present value of future obligations. That was the most
conservative among companies with pensions underfunded by at
least $3 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  The  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 9 to hold  interest
rates  near zero until mid-2013. That announcement was bad news
for pension funds, said John Ehrhardt, a New York-based
principal and actuary for Milliman.  “For a year and a half I’ve been hearing that interest
rates have to go up from here, and they continue to chug
downward,” said Jon Waite, a director and chief actuary at
investment manager SEI Investments Co.’s institutional group, in
Oaks,  Pennsylvania , which oversees $180 billion.  Milliman, which tracks the performance of the 100 largest
corporate defined-benefit pensions, says companies contributed a
record $60 billion to their plans in 2010. Contributions will
probably set records this year and next year, Ehrhardt said.  “Companies are certainly not going to see any liability
relief from rising interest rates,” he said in a phone
interview. “GM and everybody else are going to be counting on
the asset side of the equation to try and reduce the funding
deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  