-- 
Noda Avoids Losing as Judo Fighter Leading Japan Without Winning Strategy

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-09-02T09:50:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/noda-as-judo-fighter-must-avoid-losing-as-japan-s-newest-leader.html
New Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  faced political oblivion 15 years ago. His
comeback required the kind of perseverance he will need to last
longer than the five men since 2006 who preceded him.  In 1996, Noda was defeated in his re-election bid for
 parliament , losing by 105 votes. For almost four years he was
unemployed, occasionally without enough money to buy shoes for
his sons, he recalled in a speech this week.  He kept his profile afloat through a bare-bones campaign
office and his practice of going to local train stations every
weekday morning to talk with constituents. The result is a
leader who buys dinner for volunteers and gets $13 haircuts.  “He was really disappointed,” said his younger brother
Takehiko Noda, an assemblyman in the city of  Funabashi , east of
Tokyo. “I remember him regretting his inadequacies. But he was
determined to turn the experience into a plus, and this failure
gave him a broader perspective.”  Noda, 54, took office today after winning the ruling
 Democratic Party of Japan  leadership race on Aug. 29 to succeed
 Naoto Kan . He takes the reins of a country beset by economic
contraction, burdened by the world’s largest debt and reeling
from the March earthquake and nuclear disaster.  “Our most important mission is to accelerate the rebuilding
effort,” Noda said at his inaugural press conference in Tokyo.
“There is no priority higher than dealing with the problems”
from the meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant.  Failed to Deliver  Noda becomes the standard-bearer of a party that since
overturning half a century of one-party rule in 2009 has failed
to deliver on  pledges  to address the challenges of an aging and
shrinking population. Noda said on Aug. 28 that the DPJ, with
approval ratings around 20 percent, had let voters down and was
“standing on a cliff.”  Noda today named Jun Azumi, formerly the DPJ’s Diet affairs
chief, to succeed him as finance minister. Koichiro Gemba, who
served as Kan’s national strategy minister, was appointed
foreign minister. Yoshio Hachiro becomes the new minister of
trade and industry, which regulates nuclear power, while Osamu Fujimura was tapped to become the chief cabinet secretary.  To reverse the party’s fortunes while seeking a consensus
to raise taxes to pay for disaster rebuilding, Noda can draw on
a pioneering post-university education that included Zen study,
and years of training in judo, in which he holds a second-degree
black belt.  ‘Real Guts’  “We practiced two or three hours a day,” said Masamine
Jimba, who was captain of Noda’s judo club at Funabashi High
School and is now a professor at the University of  Tokyo ’s
Graduate School of Medicine. “No matter how many times he was
thrown, he’d get back up. He wasn’t particularly strong, but he
had real guts. I hope he can exercise his style of consensus
leadership, given all the crises at home and abroad.”  Like Kan, Noda is a first-generation politician, in
contrast with the five previous premiers, who were all descended
from lawmakers. The grandson of farmers, Noda said on Aug. 29
that his parents were too poor to afford a wedding reception.
The family rarely ate meat, said Takehiko Noda, 50.  After graduating from Tokyo’s  Waseda University  in 1980,
Noda originally intended to become a journalist. He changed his
mind after his father saw an advertisement for the then-
fledgling Matsushita Institute of Government and Management,
established by Konosuke Matsushita, founder of the company now
known as  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  Noda applied “half-jokingly” to the
program, his brother said.  Zen Meditation  During the four-year  course  designed to train a new
generation of leaders, students study economics, politics and
foreign policy. They also plant rice, work in factories, train
with Japan’s military and practice Zen meditation. Tuition is
free and the students are given monthly stipends.  Noda was accepted into the inaugural class and will become
the first Matsushita graduate to become prime minister. Former
foreign minister  Seiji Maehara , one of the candidates Noda
defeated to win the DPJ race, is also a Matsushita alumnus.  While at the institute, Noda enjoyed going to small pubs in
the manufacturing district nearby, said Kunihiko Okada, who was
Noda’s classmate and is now a visiting professor at Waseda’s
public management school.  “These were small, humble places with counters, no tables,
some serving questionable kinds of alcohol,” Okada said. “When
we discussed the purpose of politics, I remember Noda saying it
was for mothers who carry their babies on their backs.”  Assembly Race  After graduating from Matsushita, Noda in 1987 won the
first of two assembly terms in Chiba prefecture, where Funabashi
is located. He won his first parliament race in 1993 as a member
of a now-defunct party before losing his re-election bid to a
candidate from the  Liberal Democratic Party . The LDP governed
 Japan  for all but 10 months between 1955 and 2009.  After surviving on family savings and some support from
constituents, he returned to parliament in 2000 as a member of
the DPJ, and has won three more terms since then. He’s been
known to take volunteers to a local Denny’s restaurant for
breakfast or buy them take-out from McDonald’s, said Naoki Oka,
27, who went to the same high school and university as Noda and
worked on his campaigns.  The new premier gets his hair cut at a chain that charges
1,000 yen ($13) and eats noodles and beef at inexpensive places.
He likes “meaty” dishes, said Masafumi Hamamoto, who runs a
restaurant across the street from Noda’s campaign office.  When the DPJ took power under  Yukio Hatoyama  in September
2009, Noda was appointed vice finance minister. He became the
youngest finance chief in more than 20 years after Kan succeeded
Hatoyama as premier in June 2010.  Intervention Oversight  In that position, he oversaw the ministry’s three
interventions in the  currency market  to address the yen’s
appreciation, which threatens such exporters as Honda Motor Corp.
and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  He said today he would reach out to other
countries about efforts to deal with the currency’s appreciation.  The yen has climbed 5.6 percent this year against the
dollar, reaching a post-World War II record of 75.95 per dollar
on Aug. 19. The yen traded at 76.79 at 6:35 p.m. in Tokyo. The
benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has risen 1.2 percent since
Noda’s election, cutting its year-to-date loss to 12.5 percent.  The selection came less than a week after Moody’s Investors
Service cut Japan’s credit rating one step to Aa3, citing
political instability and “weak” economic growth prospects
that will make it difficult for the government to contain its
debt burden. Reports this week showed rising unemployment and
falling retail sales, serving as reminders to the challenges
Noda faces amid a divided parliament.  Tax Stance  Noda during an Aug. 28 debate with the other DPJ candidates
called for honoring Kan’s proposal to raise taxes to pay for
rebuilding and support the country’s social welfare system. He
said earlier last month that the government shouldn’t abandon a
plan to double the  consumption tax  to 10 percent by the end of
the decade.  He said today his administration will take “a realistic
approach” in dealing with Japan’s economic and debt problems.  “Without growth we can’t have fiscal reform, and without
fiscal reform there will be no growth,” Noda said. “My approach
will be to find a balance.”  “There may not be much difference” under Noda, said  Jiro Yamaguchi , a political science professor at  Hokkaido University 
in Sapporo. “His ability to handle key policies in this
critical situation will be quickly tested.”  Noda has little experience in foreign policy, where his
views threaten to revive a debate that has angered  South Korea .
He suggested last month that the guilty verdicts of Japan’s
World War II leaders by an international tribunal may not mean
they were war criminals under Japanese law.  ‘Inappropriate’  The statement prompted South Korea’s foreign ministry to
call the comments “inappropriate,” while  China ’s state-run
Xinhua news agency called for “a proper policy in treating
Japan’s war past to soothe the resentment among the Chinese
public toward Japan.”  Japan has territorial disputes with both South Korea and
China. Relations between Japan and China soured last year over
the collision of a Chinese fishing boat with two Japanese Coast
Guard vessels near islands claimed by both.  Noda said he will meet with President  Barack Obama  later
this month during the  United Nations General Assembly  in  New
York . The U.S. is Japan’s biggest ally, and almost 40,000
American  military personnel  are stationed in bases around the
country.  In the aftermath of the earthquake and tsunami that
crippled the Fukushima nuclear plant, Kan quarreled with Japan’s
bureaucracy and failed to reach common cause with the opposition.  ‘Wider Network’  The new premier, who has Matsushita ties to some LDP
politicians, may also benefit from a better relationship with
the country’s civil servants, said independent political
commentator Hirotada Asakawa.  “Noda has a wider network than his two predecessors,”
Asakawa said. “His government will be more stable and can work
more smoothly with opposition parties.”  Noda this week emphasized his humble beginnings and his
overcoming of adversity in appealing to DPJ colleagues to vote
for him. He compared his personality to that of a loach fish, a
freshwater bottom feeder, and said he will “work and sweat to
push down-to-earth politics.”  With Japan facing its worst crisis since World War II and
the DPJ mired in the same revolving-door cabinets that led
voters to oust the LDP, Noda aims to provide the kind of stable
political leadership lacking since  Junichiro Koizumi  stepped
down in 2006 after more than five years in office.  “In judo, you learn respect, etiquette, national pride,
and how to lower your center of gravity,” Waseda’s Okada said.
“You mustn’t try to win. Instead, you must try to avoid losing.
I think he is a judo-style type of politician.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  