-- 
Norway Sees Record Oil Investments on Field Development

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-09-01T10:12:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/norway-sees-record-oil-investments-on-field-development-1-.html
Norway expects the  petroleum
industry  to invest a record amount next year amid new field
developments after  oil prices  jumped over the past year.  The industry will make 172 billion kroner ($32 billion) in
investments, a quarterly survey from the statistics agency
showed today. This compares with a June estimate of 143.2
billion kroner. The industry expects to spend 151.7 billion
kroner this year, up from a 144.4 billion-krone June estimate.  The nation’s petroleum industry, which accounts for about a
quarter of the economy, has shielded the world’s seventh-largest
oil exporter from the worst of the credit crisis and helped keep
unemployment the lowest in  Europe . Norway is also the world’s
second-largest natural gas exporter.  Higher oil investments “will have a significant impact,”
on the overall economy, Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, an economist at
First Securities said by phone. “It’s positive for the job
market. We expect strong competition between oil and gas
companies to attract employees. That will push up wages, which
will contribute to higher consumption.”  New Developments  The krone strengthened 0.1 percent against the euro by
10:34 a.m. to trade at 7.7010.  Norway ’s central bank on Aug. 10 scrapped a planned rate
increase, leaving its benchmark rate unchanged at 2.25 percent.
The bank cited the “recent flare-up” in financial markets and a
risk of “weaker growth internationally.”  The increased estimates for 2011 and 2012 are mainly due to
the inclusion of five new development projects in the survey,
the agency said, adding that Ekofisk South, Eldfisk II, Valemon,
Knarr and Hyme were approved by the authorities this year.  Petroleum producers are increasing spending after Brent
crude oil prices surged 50 percent in the past 12 months.  Investments in exploration are estimated at 32.4 billion
kroner in 2012, which is 2.5 billion kroner higher than previous
estimates, the statistics agency said.  Statoil ASA has made two offshore finds of more than 250
million barrels of oil equivalent in Norway this year. The
country’s biggest oil and gas producer last month said Aldous
Major South and Avaldsnes in the  North Sea  are part of one
“giant” oil field, and among Norway’s top 10 discoveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  