-- 
Obama’s Address on Jobs to Congress Set for 7 P.M. on Sept 8

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-09-01T22:58:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/obama-s-address-on-jobs-to-congress-set-for-7-p-m-on-sept-8-1-.html
President Barack Obama will address
a joint session of Congress on his plans to boost jobs and
accelerate growth at 7 p.m. Washington time on Sept. 8.  House Speaker  John Boehner  extended the invitation to Obama
after the Ohio Republican and the administration wrangled over
the timing in an exchange of letters yesterday.  Obama initially sought to address Congress at 8 p.m. on
Sept. 7, which had the president speaking at the same time that
Republican candidates seeking their party’s presidential
nomination were scheduled to debate in  California . Boehner
rebuffed that request and offered Sept. 8. The 7 p.m. start time
means Obama won’t compete with the opening game of the National
Football League season, which is scheduled to begin at 8:30 p.m.  In the meantime, Boehner is planning a rival address to lay
out Republican job-creation ideas. Boehner will deliver a
luncheon speech to the  Economic Club of Washington  on Sept. 15,
according to the group’s web site.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for Boehner, declined to comment
about what policies Boehner will propose.  Boosting Jobs  Obama has been considering measures including more
infrastructure spending, tax incentives to spur hiring, a
reduction in the employer portion of the payroll tax and changes
to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker retraining,
according to people familiar with discussions.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and 9 percent next year, when Obama
will be running for re-election.  The dispute over the timing of Obama’s address foreshadows
the bigger fight over who will lead the political debate on the
economy going into next year’s election, which also will
determine control of Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 