-- 
U.S. Budget Office Sees 9 Percent Unemployment Through Election

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-09-02T04:01:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/obama-budget-office-cuts-deficit-forecast-to-1-3-trillion-for-this-year.html
President  Barack Obama  will be
running for re-election next year with the  unemployment rate 
likely stuck at 9 percent and the recovery still getting its
footing, his budget office forecast yesterday.  The Office of Management and Budget said in an update of
its economic forecasts through August that the jobless rate will
average 9.1 percent in 2011 and show little change next year. It
won’t fall below 6 percent until 2016, the OMB said.  Administration forecasters project the  U.S. economy  will
grow at a sluggish 1.7 percent rate this year, compared with the
2.7 percent gain predicted in Obama’s budget blueprint released
in February. Growth will pick up in 2012, with the economy
expanding 2.6 percent on a year-over-year basis, the OMB said.  “We are not forecasting a double-dip recession,”
Katharine Abraham, a member of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, told reporters in a conference call after
release of the administration’s mid-year review. “Although
growth has been slower than we like, we are still seeing
sustained and steady growth.”  Congress returns to work next week, with the economy, jobs
and the deficit on center stage. A special 12-member panel of
lawmakers has been given the task of finding as much as $1.5
trillion in additional savings to be submitted to Congress with
a vote before the end of the year under the terms of the debt-
ceiling deal reached in early August.  “The work of the joint committee is critical to achieving
fiscal sustainability,” the OMB report said.  Obama Address  Obama is set to lay out his proposals to boost hiring and
accelerate growth in an address to a joint session of Congress,
scheduled for 7 p.m. on Sept. 8.  Yesterday’s updated snapshot of the economy “reflects the
assumption of success” by the supercommittee, budget office
Director Jack Lew told reporters on a conference call. It
doesn’t account for Obama’s proposals, he said.  Among the provisions Obama has been considering for his
jobs agenda are more infrastructure spending, tax incentives to
spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion of the payroll
tax and changes to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker
retraining, according to people familiar with discussions.
Republicans, citing the federal deficit, have signaled they will
oppose any increased spending.  Representative  Paul Ryan , the Republican chairman of the
House Budget Committee, said used the review to criticize
Obama’s record as “abysmal.”  Republican Reaction  “Today’s report confirms that the president’s policies
have failed to deliver on his promises of  job creation ,  deficit
reduction , and much-needed economic growth,” Ryan said in a
statement. Obama’s “policies have made a difficult situation
worse.”  The OMB forecasts the budget shortfall at $1.3 trillion
this year, or 8.8 percent of gross domestic product, down from
the $1.65 trillion projected in February, as tax collections
increased and federal spending slowed. The deficit is projected
to be $956 billion in 2012 and $648 billion in 2013. The
narrowing from the budget office’s February projections is a
result of the budget deal Obama signed Aug. 2, according to the
OMB.  Lew said improvement in the deficit for this year reflected
tax collections that were about $150 billion higher than
estimated in February and $76 billion less in spending than was
anticipated.  The budget office reduced its estimate of total deficits
over the next decade to $5.75 trillion from 2012-2021, compared
with $7.21 trillion in the Feb. 14 budget, a reflection of
“enacted legislation and policy changes” that include last
month’s deficit-reduction deal between Obama and Congress.  CBO Projections  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office , in a separate
update of the economy on Aug. 24, predicted the federal deficit
at $1.3 trillion for the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30, down
from $1.4 trillion expected in April. The shortfall for fiscal
2011 marks the third straight year of deficits exceeding $1
trillion, OMB figures show.  The agency predicted an employment rate of 8.9 percent in
the fourth quarter of this year, declining to 8.5 percent in the
same quarter of 2012, when the presidential election will take
place.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the previous two years.  Public Disapproval  A poll conducted for  CNN  found 65 percent of Americans
disapprove of the way Obama is handling the economy, the highest
level since he took office. Thirty-four percent said they
approved in the poll conducted Aug. 24-25. The margin of error
is plus or minus 3 percentage points.  The OMB said economic growth will be slower than previously
forecast because of rising oil prices, disruption in global
supplies brought on by the earthquake in  Japan , a European
slowdown and a sluggish rebound in the U.S. housing market.  Many figures in the review reflect conditions as of mid-
June, OMB said. Projections for annual growth and unemployment
reflect the budget office’s “alternative” set of forecasts
that incorporate information available through late August. That
includes lower GDP growth in the second quarter and other
indicators “suggesting slower growth than originally forecast
in the second half.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
figures released by the Commerce Department on Aug. 26 showed.
Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in the first
three months of the year, the past two quarters were the weakest
of the recovery that began in mid 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  