-- 
Obama Stands by Renewable-Energy Aid After Panel Maker Solyndra’s Failure

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-09-01T16:28:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/obama-stands-by-renewable-energy-aid-after-solyndra-s-failure.html
President  Barack Obama  is standing
by his support for renewable energy after Solyndra Inc., a maker
of solar panels that received a $535 million U.S. loan
 guarantee , shut its doors, a White House spokesman said.  Solyndra suspended operations and plans to file for
bankruptcy reorganization because it couldn’t compete with
larger rivals, the closely held company said in a statement
yesterday.  Obama had touted Solyndra as part of the U.S. effort to aid
development of alternative energy sources, and its failure was
cited by Republican lawmakers who say the subsidies are
misguided. It’s the third U.S. solar company to go under in a
month, as plunging panel prices and weak global demand drive a
wave of industry consolidation.  “While we are disappointed by this particular outcome, we
continue to believe the clean-energy jobs race is one that
America can, must and will win,” White House spokesman Eric
Schultz said today in an e-mailed statement. Obama visited the
Fremont, California-based company in May 2010, and said the U.S.
was in competition with  China  and  Germany  for supremacy in
renewable energy.  The Energy Department’s portfolio of dozens of other
government-backed investments “continues to perform well and is
on pace to create thousands of jobs.”  Solyndra is likely to file for Chapter 11 protection in
Delaware on Sept. 7, as it evaluates options including selling
itself or licensing its technology,  David Miller , a spokesman
for the Fremont, California-based company, said in an e-mail.
About 1,100 full-time and temporary employees have been
dismissed. The company didn’t say how much it owes creditors.  Couldn’t Compete  “Solyndra could not achieve full-scale operations rapidly
enough to compete in the near term with the resources of larger
foreign manufacturers,” the company said in the statement. Its
problems were exacerbated by a global glut of solar panels and
slowing demand “that in part resulted from uncertainty in
governmental incentive programs in  Europe .”  The company may have trouble finding a buyer, said Adam Krop, an analyst at Ardour Capital Partners in New York.  “I don’t see anyone swooping in,” he said in an
interview. “I don’t see this technology as very viable in the
long-term. I see someone maybe buying the facility.”  Solyndra produces cylindrical panels that convert sunlight
into electricity using copper-indium-gallium-diselenide thin-
film technology. Standard solar panels are flat.  “Manufacturing and assembly costs associated with a
Solyndra module aren’t particularly scalable,” Krop said.  The company has borrowed $527 million of the $535 million
covered by the Energy Department loan guarantee, Damien LaVera,
a department spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Solyndra plans to include the Energy Department loan
guarantee in its bankruptcy filing.  ‘Dubious Investment’  Solyndra’s failure calls into question Obama’s renewable
energy policies, according to two Republican House members.  “It is clear that Solyndra was a dubious investment,”
Representatives  Fred Upton  of  Michigan  and Cliff Stearns, of
 Florida , said in a joint statement yesterday. The company “is
just the latest casualty of the Obama administration’s failed
stimulus.”  Investments in start-up companies inevitably involve some
risk, Dan Leistikow, director of the Energy Department’s Office
of Public Affairs, said in an  article  on the agency’s website.
“The changing economics have affected a number of solar
manufacturers in recent months, including unfortunately,
Solyndra,” he said. “We have always recognized that not every
one of the innovative companies supported by our loans and loan
guarantees would succeed.”  Ceding to China  Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, said
the U.S. must continue to support renewable energy. Recent
bankruptcies of U.S. solar companies are a warning and “we
should be doing everything possible to ensure the  United States 
does not cede the renewable energy market to China and other
countries,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  SpectraWatt Inc., a solar company backed by units of  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , filed for  bankruptcy
protection  Aug. 19, and  Evergreen Solar Inc. (ESLR)  did so Aug. 15.  SpectraWatt of Hopewell Junction, New York, received a
$150,000 grant in June 2010 from the  National Science
Foundation , and a grant of $500,000 in June 2009 from the Energy
Department’s National Renewable Energy Laboratory.  Solyndra canceled in June 2010 plans to raise as much as
$300 million in an initial public offering.  Solyndra’s backers include Argonaut Private Equity, GKFF
Investment, CMEA Ventures, Redpoint Ventures, Rockport Capital
Partners LLC, US Venture Partners, Virgin Green Fund, and Artis
Capital Management LP, according to the company’s December 2009
IPO filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  