-- 
Lockheed F-35 Fighter Has ‘Design Flaw’ in Wing Part, Pentagon Tester Says

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-09-01T18:49:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/lockheed-martin-f-35-wing-part-has-design-flaw-tester-says.html
Two of three models of  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35 jet have a “design flaw” that reduces the
expected life of a wing structure to 1,200 hours, which is
“significantly less than” the expected 8,000 hours, according
to the U.S. Defense Department’s testing office.  The “defective” aluminum beam was detected in November on
Air Force and Marine Corps test aircraft after an unrelated
bulkhead crack surfaced in the Marine Corps model, the office
said. The Air Force plans to buy 1,763 of the 2,443 total in the
$382 billion U.S. program, the Marines 371.  The flawed part is the forward root rib, an aluminum beam
at the forward-inboard corner of the wing that supports a
fuselage fairing panel on the Joint Strike Fighter’s leading
edge flap, according to Lockheed.  “Structural analysis predicted” that the root rib will
have “less than the desired fatigue life,” Pentagon Director
of Operational Test and Evaluation Michael Gilmore said in an e-
mail statement. “Its short predicted life relative to the
stated requirement is a design flaw,” he said.  The heretofore undisclosed flaw underscores the potential
for additional cost growth and schedule delays on the Pentagon’s
largest weapons program. Previous problems caused former
Secretary of Defense  Robert Gates  to put the jet into an
extended development phase not scheduled to end until 2016, four
years later than the original schedule.  Wing Won’t Fail  The issue is one of long-term durability that, were the
part not fixed, would add to maintenance and support cost. A
preliminary Pentagon estimate already pegs F-35 operating costs
at as much as $1 trillion, based on a model used by 107
squadrons at 50 sites through 2065, according to Lockheed.  The F-35 program office and Lockheed Martin have conducted
a safety assessment and concluded that a root rib failure would
not lead to wing failure, F-35 program spokesman Joseph DellaVedova said in an e-mail.  “This is not considered a serious issue,” DellaVedova
said. The program office and Lockheed have developed retrofits
and new production improvements designed to extend the beam’s
life and correct “durability deficiencies,” he said.  “Resolving durability test findings is a well understood
process,” he said. Durability testing is conducted early “to
avoid costly sustainment later,” he said.  The  Air Force ’s principle military deputy for acquisition,
Lieutenant General Mark Shackelford, said in an interview today
the “unanticipated bill” for the fixes will likely come from
program funding.  Retrofits Planned  The root rib must be redesigned for future production
aircraft, Gilmore said. Inspection and repair procedures are
being created for the existing test and production aircraft,
Gilmore said.  DellaVedova said in an e-mail statement that about 30 Air
Force and 30 Marine Corps versions will be retrofitted. A new
design will be incorporated on the assembly line in the upcoming
fifth low-rate production contract. The Navy aircraft carrier
version does not have this durability issue, he said.  Lockheed Martin spokeswoman Laurie Quincy said the F-35
program office statement speaks for the company.  Shackelford said “while you don’t want to have that type
of discovery, it’s a fact of life when you are building new
aircraft.”  The defect “is not serious enough to be a danger of a loss
of a wing -- not a catastrophic failure,” said Shackelford, a
former F-22 test pilot. “But there will be some flying-hour
limit,” on current jets and “inspections to monitor that
structural member. That has some implication in terms of our
maintenance work on the aircraft.”  ‘Difficult’ Fix  Gilmore said “it remains to be seen how disruptive”
retrofitting aircraft will be to the ongoing flight test and
field operations. “The needed modification is understood to be
a difficult and complex process,” Gilmore said.  “Little durability testing has actually been completed;
therefore, more discovery is possible,” Gilmore said.  Aircraft produced with the original root rib “must be
inspected periodically” and have required repair before
approximately 1,000 flight hours, Gilmore said.  Durability testing of the wing area was resumed in May but
halted last month for about a week when a crack was discovered
in a predicted area of the root rib after about 2,800 hours of
testing, DellaVedova said. The test was resumed a week later and
is ongoing for completion of 3,000 hours, he said. The crack is
being monitored.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  