-- 
Ohio Selling Its Lake Erie Prison to CCA, Hiring Company to Run Two Others

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-01T19:11:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/ohio-will-sell-lake-erie-prison-hire-outsiders-to-run-two-units-in-marion.html
Ohio will sell a prison to
Corrections Corp. of America Inc. for $72.7 million and has
decided to keep four others for which it sought offers.  The state will sell the  Lake Erie Correctional Institution 
in Ashtabula County to Nashville-based CCA, the Rehabilitation
and Correction Department said in a release today. It will hire
Management & Training Corp. of Centerville,  Utah , to run two
facilities in Marion. Ohio also will combine state and privately
run prisons to create one government-operated complex in Lorain
County, the department said.  The moves, done to help balance a state budget with a
deficit this year of as much as $8 billion, will save an
estimated $13 million annually and provide 702 additional beds
to ease overcrowding statewide, the agency said.  “It is a decision that is balanced,”  Gary C. Mohr ,
director of the department, said at a news conference in
Columbus. “It is a decision that is responsive to the bids that
we received, and it’s a decision that will move our agency
forward in a safe and strong manner.”  Ohio  is trying a new approach: selling a prison outright,
rather than hiring a contractor to operate it or paying a
company to build and run a new one,  James Austin , president of
the Washington-based  JFA Institute , a corrections-consulting
company, has said.  Poor Offers  The state budget passed in June authorized the sale of five
lockups, and Corrections Corp., Management and Training Corp.
and  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  of  Boca Raton ,  Florida , submitted bids, the
department said.  Bidders didn’t offer enough for the other prisons, Annette
Chambers-Smith, the agency’s deputy director, said at the news
conference.  Corrections Corp. of America has almost a one-half share of
the private-corrections industry, according to an Aug. 29
analysis by  Standard & Poor’s . U.S. prisoners in private
facilities have increased 82 percent during the past decade to
129,336 at the end of 2009, according to the  U.S. Bureau of
Justice Statistics .  The Lake Erie prison being sold to CCA to operate currently
is run by Management and Training, the agency said. The state is
hiring Management and Training to operate  North Central
Correctional Institution  in Marion and the vacant Marion
Juvenile Correctional Facility, which will reopen as an adult
prison, the department said.  The  North Coast Correctional Treatment Facility  in Lorain
County, now run by Management and Training, will become a state
operation and merge with the state-run  Grafton Correctional
Institution , the department said.  Taking Over  The agency said it expects the companies to assume
operation of the prisons at 10 p.m. on Dec. 31.  As part of the sale of the Lake Erie prison, CCA will
receive $44.25 per day, per prisoner, as well as a $3.8 million
annual fee for wear and tear during the 20-year span of the
 management contract , the department said.  Management and Training Corp. will receive a per diem of
$41.20 to operate the Marion facilities, according to agency
documents.  The sale is not a done deal because a lawsuit against the
state is proceeding, Brian Rothenberg, ProgressOhio executive
director, said in a telephone interview from Columbus.  Selling prisons violates the state constitution because the
authorization was included in the budget, and the right for
citizens to seek a referendum on the matter was denied as a
result, ProgressOhio said in its lawsuit.  Courtroom Clash  Judge  Patrick E. Sheeran  of Franklin County Common Pleas
Court yesterday declined to block the sale, though he did say
the referendum argument “appears to have merit.” He scheduled
a hearing Sept. 13 in Columbus.  Carlo LoParo, a spokesman for the Rehabilitation and
Correction Department, said the agency’s process is sound and
“we’re confident that it’ll ultimately be upheld.”  The Ohio Civil Service Employees Association, which
represents 10,000 prison employees, was “very happy” about the
decision not to sell all five institutions, President
Christopher Mabe told reporters.  “We as a union believe that the incarceration of a human
being should be left to government and not up to a private
corporation for the sake of profit,” Mabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  