-- 
Crude Oil Advances to Four-Week High as Companies Evacuate Gulf Platforms

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-09-01T19:59:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/oil-trades-near-a-one-month-high-after-u-s-jobless-claims-decline.html
Crude oil rose to a four-week high
in New York as a low-pressure system in the  Gulf of Mexico  that
will probably develop into a storm led energy companies evacuate
platforms and rigs in the Gulf of Mexico.  Futures gained 0.1 percent as BP Plc,  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  began removing workers from the
Gulf, home to 27 percent of U.S. oil output. A Labor Department
report tomorrow may show U.S. employers added 65,000 workers
last month following a 117,000 gain in July, according to a
Bloomberg News survey.  “The market is pricing in a probable disruption in
domestic supply,” said Jason Schenker, the president of
Prestige Economics, an energy advisory company in Austin,  Texas .
“Prices will move higher if there are further moves to evacuate
workers from the region.”  Crude oil for October delivery advanced 12 cents to $88.93
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since Aug. 3. Futures dropped 7.2 percent in August
and are down 2.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for October settlement dropped 56 cents, or 0.5
percent, to $114.29 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The contract earlier reached $115.36, the
highest intraday price since Aug. 3. The European benchmark was
at a premium of $25.36 to U.S. futures, compared with a record
$26.21 on Aug. 19, based on closing prices.  The system of thunderstorms has a 80 percent chance of
organizing into a tropical storm in the next two days, the
 National Weather Service  said in a  weather outlook  at 1:40 p.m.
 New York  time. That’s up from 60 percent yesterday. The system
is producing gusty winds and thunderstorms over the central and
eastern Gulf, the center said.  Smaller Spread  “The system in the Gulf explains why U.S. crude is rising
here while Brent and the stock market are falling,” Schenker
said. “The spread should come in a bit further.”  About 5.7 percent of oil production from the Gulf is shut
as an area of thunderstorms that may become Tropical Storm Lee
crosses the body of water, according to the  Bureau of Ocean
Energy Management , Regulation and Enforcement. About 80,000
barrels of oil per day have been curtailed, the bureau said in
an update to its  website  today.  Evacuating Platforms  BP is evacuating all personnel at platforms in the Gulf of
Mexico, according to a message on the company’s hurricane hot
line. Anadarko evacuated workers from its Gulf facilities and is
shutting output at eight operating platforms.  Shell said it was evacuating employees from most of its
Gulf operations and has shut in some production, mainly from
subsea fields.  W&T Offshore Inc. (WTI)  has removed “a few” non-
essential maintenance and construction workers and contractors.  Katia, the second hurricane of the Atlantic season, may
grow into a major storm this weekend north and east of  Puerto
Rico , the U.S. National Hurricane Center said. The storm
presents no threat to land anytime soon, the center said.  Tomorrow’s Labor Department report will probably show the
jobless rate held at 9.1 percent last month, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  “If tomorrow’s report comes in better than expected it
will probably lift oil above $90, which would be important
technically,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at
Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “There’s a great
hope the Fed will do something to boost growth.”  Jobs, Manufacturing  Oil rose earlier after reports showed U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly grew in August and jobless claims decreased,
bolstering optimism about the economy. The  Institute for Supply
Management ’s factory index fell to 50.6 in August from 50.9 in
July. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between expansion and
contraction. The Labor Department said jobless claims declined
by 12,000 to 409,000 last week.  “The news today can be taken as either positive or
negative for the market, so it’s not giving us much direction,”
said Carl Larry, director of energy derivatives and research
with Blue Ocean LLC in New York. “Attention is already shifting
to the unemployment report tomorrow.”  Other reports showed a global manufacturing slowdown may be
unfolding. A measure of Australian manufacturing slumped in
August to a more than two-year low, a gauge of the industry in
 China  hovered near its weakest point in 29 months as exports
declined, and factories in  Europe  contracted more than initially
estimated, according to surveys.  ’Undershooting’  “Economists were over-optimistic earlier this year, and
now they are undershooting a bit,” O’Grady said. “The number
wasn’t that impressive, but it was better than expected. Some of
the components are looking weak.”  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , speaking at the
annual central bank symposium last week in  Jackson Hole ,
 Wyoming , said the Fed still had tools at its disposal to
stimulate the economy even as he declined to specify which
measures it might use.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 507,137
contracts as of 3:58 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 928,207
contracts yesterday, 36 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.52 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 