-- 
Looking for CEO Love in All the Wrong Places: Susan Antilla

-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/looking-for-ceo-love-in-all-the-wrong-places-commentary-by-susan-antilla.html
If you’re like most consumers of
business and financial news, you gobble up those useless lists
of “Best Leaders” and “ Most Admired Companies ,” trusting
that people in my line of work have the right formula to measure
what’s “best.”  Over the years, I’ve been in the room when some business
“best” lists were put together, and the creators of  David Letterman ’s Top Ten look like a Nobel Prize jury by comparison.  I got to wondering why so many of us do such a bad job of
evaluating the quality of our leaders after  Warren Buffett  and
 Howard Schultz  made news last month for doing what chief
executive officers rarely do. They used their bully pulpits to
take stands that weren’t, on their face, self-serving, and that
had the potential to benefit people outside the privileged
class. Who knew that business leaders could step up to lead?  Buffett, head of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.,  wrote  an op-ed in
the New York Times on Aug. 14 saying that mega-rich Americans
like him ought to pay more taxes. The story went viral.  Schultz, CEO of Starbucks Corp., went public Aug. 12 with a
 proposal  that business cease making political contributions
until Congress and the president come up with a “fiscally
disciplined long-term debt and deficit plan.” Ditto the viral
story thing.  You can love or hate their proposals, but you’ve got to
admit that Schultz and Buffett are a breed apart from their CEO
brethren. Somehow, though, we keep putting the wrong executives
on a pedestal. Why do we fawn over glitz and future felons
instead of seeking out real leaders?  For one thing, we love those dopey lists, which sometimes
aggrandize people or companies that may have satisfied a
publication’s set of metrics, but may not be worthy of our
adulation. To help discriminating readers get smarter about who
deserves, and doesn’t deserve, our admiration, I’ve compiled --
what else? -- a list, including tips on how to see through
flawed news coverage of CEOs and companies. Would somebody out
there please consider tracking some of these?  No. 1. The Five Most Self-Serving Op-Eds List  If you really want to learn something about business
executives, watch how they use the platform that comes with the
job. Are you seeing their bylines on op-eds that whine about
over-regulation, or are they, like Buffett, putting themselves
on the line writing controversial articles that recommend
policies that might benefit the public at large, even at their
own personal expense? A  theme  that wily CEOs love: ranting about
how they will have to cut back on all the wonderful products
they offer to consumers if regulators crack down.  No. 2. The Most Flawed CEO Metaphors List  CEOs make lots of proclamations, but not all of them ring
true. A favorite of mine was in a New York Times magazine  story 
in December 2010 titled “America’s Least-Hated Banker,” an
uncomplimentary compliment of a headline if ever there was one.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. CEO Jamie Dimon -- a winner in “best”
executives lists over the years and the subject of the article -
- compared his bank’s offering of loans, credit cards and
investment products to what customers get at Wal-Mart. If
they’re really comparable, is Dimon willing to let customers
belly up, Wal-Mart style, to the bank’s customer-service desk
for full refunds whenever those loan agreements or credit cards
prove to be defective? My guess is customers are more likely to
be greeted with a copy of the bank’s mandatory arbitration
policy.  No. 3. Business’s Greatest-Ever No-Comments List  As  Sherlock Holmes  discovered, there’s a lot to be learned
from the  dog that doesn’t bark . I called media relations at the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, a business lobbying group that isn’t
exactly shy about voicing its opinion, and asked what it had to
say about the recent proposals by Buffett and Schultz. “At this
point, we are not weighing in on either one of those,” said
spokesman Bryan Goettel. Is that what you should expect from a
group whose membership is chock-full of well-known business
leaders and has lots to say about things like taxes? Warren Bennis, a professor at the  University of Southern California ’s
Marshall School of Business, isn’t surprised the group ducked
the question. “The Chamber of Commerce is doing its job,”
which is apparently to avoid calling attention to its own
policies on taxes and the deficit amid the constructive talk by
Buffett and Schultz. The  Business Roundtable , the CEO group that
says on its Web page that “businesses should play an active and
effective role in the formation of public policy,” went for
radio silence when I called and e-mailed with questions.  No. 4. The Lamest Contrary for the Sake of Being Contrary
Writers of the Year List  If you want to be a very cool journalist, you come out
fastest with an argument about corporate and political big shots
that runs counter to the prevailing news. This does nothing to
advance public policy, but it can activate an ego gratifying
Twitter-fest celebrating the clever writer. Dominique Strauss- Kahn is a loser-rat-womanizer in the headlines? Then be first to
write that he’s a victimized hero. Buffett is getting praise for
calling the fat cats to task? Then get out a story telling him
to go write a check if he wants to pay more taxes. This instant
contrarianism is usually filler on slow days when the writer had
nothing else to go with.  No. 5. The Lists You Shouldn’t Pay Attention to List  This is a very long list, and to get on it, you have to
produce a feature story replete with breathless and hyperbolic
language describing the people or companies who have made the
cut as “best.”  Steve Jobs  didn’t just make Apple Inc. the most
valuable technology company in the world, according to Fortune
magazine’s “Businessperson of the Year” feature published in
November 2010. He made it “the most valuable tech company in
the galaxy.”  No. 6. The Real Leaders List  This is as short as the previous list is long. Paul
Janensch, professor emeritus of journalism at  Quinnipiac
University , says that Buffett’s call for higher taxes on the
wealthy was a big splash because it was a man-bites-dog story.
But “don’t hold your breath waiting for CEOs of utilities and
manufacturing companies to lobby for tighter environmental
restrictions or hedge fund titans to demand tougher regulation
of the markets,” he says.  No. 7. The Top 100 Financial Advisers Who Made Money for
Their Clients List  Wall Street  is a place where a lot of people make a lot of
money because they know how to measure things. So how come we
get lists that measure financial advisers based on the revenue
they make (see the Aug. 27 Barron’s) but not based on the money
their customers make? On second thought, I take it back. You
will never see a list like this.  No. 8. The Top Mutually Beneficial Relationships List  Lists are catnip for readers with short attention spans, an
advertising bonanza for publishers (last year’s winners are
natural targets for sales calls to run ads in next year’s
feature) and a boon to any public-relations staff navigating a
crisis. When reporters call with a tough question about the
boss, flacks can cut them right down to size with a sneering,
“You know that Mr. Indicted CEO is on the Top Leaders in the
Universe List for 2011, didn’t you?” List articles have legs,
says Alec Klein, a professor at Northwestern University’s Medill
School of Journalism. “Those stories are disseminated widely by
PR folks afterward,” he says. “It’s kind of a symbiotic
relationship.”  No. 9. The Most Boring CEO List  Now we’re getting serious. Nancy F. Koehn, a business
historian at  Harvard Business School , says list-mania doesn’t
always produce losers; it’s just that you have to look past the
executives riding a momentary wave to find the gems. “On all
those lists there are always serious hitters,” she says, citing
A. G. Lafley, who retired as CEO of Procter & Gamble in 2010, as
a “very, very serious leader” who is “completely unsexy,”
but still makes all the lists. Happily, Koehn is predicting that
Buffett and Schultz will inspire other executives to speak up
about what’s wrong with government, calling the two CEOs
“canaries down what will become a much more crowded mine
shaft.”  No. 10. I don’t have a No. 10. Be wary of the list that has
to add up to a nice round number, because it will be padded with
filler. How do I know this? Because I’ve whipped up Top Ten
stories before.  As Koehn notes, the ubiquitous lists don’t get it all
wrong. Buffett and Schultz have for years found their way to the
top of the inventories of excellence.  But so did  Mark Hurd , the former CEO of Hewlett-Packard
Co., who resigned after an investigation found he’d had a
personal relationship with a contractor who had received
inappropriate payments from HP. Businessweek, purchased in 2009
by Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News, named Hurd 2007
Businessperson of the Year in an online story in January 2008.
(A spokeswoman said the magazine doesn’t publish that feature
today, though it publishes other “best” lists.) Others the
article honored as great leaders were  Rupert Murdoch , whose News
Corp. has been under fire for phone-hacking, and  John Thain , who
famously spent $1.2 million to decorate his Merrill Lynch & Co.
office even as the firm was verging on collapse before Bank of
America Corp. bailed it out. Similarly, the 1999 book “Lessons
from the Top” listed Bernie Ebbers,  Dennis Kozlowski  and
 Kenneth Lay  among 50 of America’s “Best Business Leaders.”  Ebbers and Kozlowski are in prison. Lay was awaiting
sentencing for  securities fraud  when he died in 2006. If you
insist on paying attention to roundups of the best and greatest,
read them for their entertainment value. To really understand
who the great leaders and companies are takes more than fancy
metrics and a show of hands at an editorial meeting.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about Wall Street and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at  santilla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 