-- 
OPEC to Boost Exports as IEA Release Ends, Oil Movements Says

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-09-01T15:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/opec-to-boost-exports-as-iea-release-ends-oil-movements-says.html
The Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries will raise crude shipments through Sept. 17
as consuming nations end a program of supply releases to make up
for lost Libyan exports, according to Oil Movements.  Exports will rise 0.2 percent to 22.59 million barrels a
day in the four-week period, the Halifax, England-based tanker-
tracker said today in a report. That compares with 22.54 million
a day in the month to Aug. 20. Shipments typically decline at
this time of year as refiners undertake seasonal maintenance.
The figures exclude  Ecuador  and Angola.  “The crude market is quite strong,” Roy Mason, Oil
Movements’ founder, said by telephone. “We would expect to see
a decrease in sailings at this point in the year. But it’s not
suffering yet. Sailings westbound are up, and eastbound they’re
down a little.”  The  International Energy Agency  announced on June 23 the
offer of 60 million barrels of oil from its reserves to
compensate for the loss of exports from  Libya . In July the
Paris-based agency, which advises 28 industrialized nations,
said it wouldn’t extend the program.  Shipments from Middle Eastern producers, including non-OPEC
members Oman and Yemen, will be 0.3 percent higher at 17.3
million barrels a day in the four weeks to Sept. 17, according
to Oil Movements estimates.  Crude on board tankers will average 468.9 million barrels
in the four-week period, down 0.4 percent from 471 million in
the period to Aug. 20, the researcher said.  Oil Movements calculates shipments by keeping a tally of
tanker-rental agreements. Its figures exclude crude held on
board ships as floating storage.  OPEC’s members are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador,  Iran , Iraq,
Kuwait, Libya,  Nigeria ,  Qatar ,  Saudi Arabia , the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela. The organization will meet next on Dec.
14 in Vienna.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  