-- 
Glencore Proposes $1.2 Billion Takeover of South Africa’s Optimum Coal

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 
2011-09-01T16:36:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/optimum-coal-gets-4-86-per-share-offer-from-group-including-glencore-unit.html
Glencore International Plc, the
largest publicly traded commodities supplier, proposed a cash
takeover of  Optimum Coal Holdings (OPT)  Ltd. that values the South
African target at $1.2 billion, to add mines as prices gain.  A Glencore-led group plans to offer 34 rand ($4.85) a
share, the Baar, Switzerland-based company said today in a
statement. Optimum said it received a further approach, without
identifying the potential rival bidder, and doesn’t view
Glencore’s move as a firm intention to make an offer.  Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, who led Glencore’s
$10 billion initial public offering in May, said last week he is
“aggressively” seeking mergers and acquisitions as valuations
slide. The trader bought a 14.1 percent stake in Johannesburg-
based Optimum on Aug. 29 and said today it has agreements that
may increase this to 43.5 percent.  “We see the transaction as having strategic benefits for
Glencore, in terms of increasing its industrial reserves in a
core commodity,” RBC Capital Markets analysts said in an e-
mailed report. “Bids from other parties are possible and could
push up the price, but with over 40 percent of Optimum’s shares
owned by Glencore or promised to the consortium already, we see
chances of a third party bid as unlikely.”  ‘Sustained Demand’  Optimum’s assets, which include mines and port capacity,
are an “attractive addition” to Glencore’s South African
operations, Tor Peterson, director of its coal unit, said in the
statement. “We expect strong Chinese and Indian imports and
concerns surrounding nuclear generation capacity to result in
sustained underlying demand for coal.”  Optimum,  South Africa ’s fourth-largest coal exporter,
advanced 1.4 percent to 33.55 rand by the 5 p.m. close of
Johannesburg trading. Glencore dropped 0.8 percent to 418.3
pence in  London . The proposed offer price is a 36 percent
premium to Optimum’s 30-day volume-weighted average as of Aug.
16, a day before Optimum said it’s in talks that may affect the
price of its shares.  “One would forecast demand for electricity to continue to
rise in the Asian region and Glencore is a key player in
supplying power stations around  Asia ,”  John Meyer , an analyst
at Fairfax IS in London, said today by phone. “Glencore has
money to spend and I think will look to expand its trading
business on further acquisitions.”  Glencore is bidding through an investor group and its local
Black Economic Empowerment partner Cyril Ramaphosa, the chairman
of Shanduka Group. Glencore holds a 70 percent interest in
Shanduka Coal, whose mines have a production capacity of 9
million metric tons a year with  Europe  the primary market for
its sales, according to Glencore’s website.  “Most investors are very wary of investment in South
Africa, but Glencore goes where others fear to tread and usually
seems to do very well out of it,” Fairfax’s Meyer said.  No Firm Offer  Optimum said the proposal doesn’t “constitute a firm
intention” to make a bid. Chief Executive Officer Mike Teke
declined to comment further when contacted by phone today.  “There is therefore no proposed offer in respect of which
the board is required to provide a recommendation,” Optimum
said in the statement. “If the board receives a firm offer, it
will consider its position and make a recommendation to
shareholders, taking into account independent advice received,
its own views of the fairness and reasonableness of the proposed
offer, and any alternative offers.”  Optimum’s board has also received a further unsolicited,
non-binding expression of interest from a third party to acquire
a controlling interest in the company.  “The expression of interest provides for certain
preconditions to be met before the alternative party will be
prepared to express a firm intention to make an offer, including
a due diligence investigation,” it said.  Coal Prices  Optimum operates South Africa’s third-largest opencast
mine, bought from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  in June 2008, and has an
allocation to ship 8.44 million tons of coal a year through the
Richards Bay export terminal, the country’s main coal export
harbor.  Its Koornfontein and Optimum collieries are in Mpumalanga
province, where Glencore’s Shanduka Coal unit operates five
mines.  Prices for thermal coal may average about $130 a ton in
2011, up from about $98 last year, Morgan Stanley said in a July
26 report.  Shanduka Group, formed in 2000, has investments in mining,
energy, financial services, property and beverages. Founder and
Chairman Ramaphosa is a former head of the  National Union of
Mineworkers  and secretary general of the  African National
Congress , and led the ANC team that negotiated the end of
apartheid with the white-minority government before elections in
1994. The Johannesburg-based company’s name means “change” in
Venda, one of the country’s 11 official languages.  Glencore is being advised by Bank of America Corp. while
 Standard Chartered  is working with Optimum, according to the
South African company’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  