-- 
Orco Property Falls Most in Two Weeks on Loss, Debt Warning

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-09-01T11:18:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/orco-property-tumbles-most-in-two-weeks-on-loss-debt-warning.html
Orco Property Group (ORC)  SA slumped the
most in two weeks after the Czech developer posted a first-half
loss and said its German unit may struggle to refinance debt.  The stock slid as much as 7.8 percent, the most since Aug.
19, and traded down 4.5 percent to 147.18 koruna as of 12:28
p.m. in Prague. It was the worst performer in the  Czech
Republic ’s main PX equity index, which slid 1.3 percent.  The loss for the period was 7.5 million euros ($11 million)
compared with a profit of 237.7 million euros a year earlier,
Orco said in a statement yesterday. Revenue fell to 73.6 million
euros compared with 163.1 million euros.  “The first-half results were somewhat worse than expected
due to still-declining rental revenue,” analyst Petr Bartek at
Ceska Sporitelna AS, the Prague-based unit of Erste Group Bank
AG, wrote in an e-mailed report to clients today.  Orco agreed to sell a stake in its Russian operations to a
local investor for 53 million euros, the Luxembourg-registered
company said in a separate statement yesterday. Orco  Germany  SA
is facing a “very challenging situation” in refinancing of its
300 million-euro GSG loan and of 100 million euros of bonds,
said Chief Executive Officer Jean-Francois Ott.  “Orco will get a lot of cash from the sale of Russian
assets, but we would not be surprised to see the money flowing
to Orco Germany to support refinancing of GSG,” Bartek said.
“This, coupled with weaker rental revenue, is not positive news
and we do not see a trigger for good share-price performance in
the near future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Kirkland at   skirkland@bloomberg.net  