-- 
More Accounting Transparency May Distort Markets: Haresh Sapra

-- B y   H a r e s h   S a p r a
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/more-accounting-transparency-may-distort-markets-haresh-sapra.html
It is now believed that in the years
preceding the recent financial turmoil, banks took excessive
risks that weren’t disclosed, and regulators were only able to
intervene after widespread panic had brought the system to its
knees.  More transparency, it is argued, could have allowed the
market to discipline such excessive risk-taking behavior. Yet
there is evidence that, in many situations, greater disclosure
may not be good corporate governance or even desirable.  In the post-crisis regulatory environment, companies are
under pressure to disclose more. The  Financial Accounting
Standards Board  and the  International Accounting Standards Board 
have been trying to improve both U.S. Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles and the International Financial Reporting
Standards, and make the two sets of accounting rules fully
compatible. The goal is to produce a single set of international
conventions that achieve a high degree of reporting
transparency.  The benefits of more transparent reporting seem obvious:
Companies with a high degree of disclosure would allow outsiders
to exercise better market discipline, which, in turn, would
improve  resource allocation  in the economy.  However, the view that greater transparency enhances market
discipline and therefore economic efficiency holds true only in
a “Robinson Crusoe” economy, that is to say one in which a
single decision maker is learning about a company whose
decisions are taken as given and whose future cash flows or
economic fundamentals are therefore fixed.  Complex Economies  In such an environment, more information is desirable as it
leads to more precise beliefs about fundamentals. Most companies
don’t operate in such an economy. Instead, they function in
environments in which information has strategic consequences.
These are economies where there are limitations to market
discipline that need to be understood by those who are setting
reporting standards.  I will draw upon two insights from economic theory to
illustrate why greater transparency isn’t necessarily a panacea:  -- In a second-best environment -- one plagued with
multiple imperfections -- simply removing one flaw without
addressing the others won’t necessarily improve the system as a
whole. In fact, it is possible that removing an imperfection --
for example,  information asymmetry , or the informational
advantage held by insiders -- could magnify the negative effects
of the remaining imperfections to the detriment of overall
welfare.  -- Companies aren’t passive technologies, but are managed
by insiders who respond to changes in the disclosure
environment.  Market Price  Here is an example of how these two insights apply: Fair-
value accounting is one of the ways in which standard setters
are striving to achieve reporting transparency. This method uses
market inputs or prices to value balance sheets every reporting
period as opposed to using a historical-cost system where
balance-sheet claims are kept at their acquisition values but
not marked to market.  Standard setters have argued that fair-value accounting
would alleviate information asymmetry between insiders and
outsiders. Yet insiders of many financial institutions have
complained that rather than enhancing market discipline, fair-
value accounting would introduce volatility into their reported
numbers, thereby inducing suboptimal decisions.  Illiquid Trades  These insiders argue that a large proportion of the assets
of financial institutions consist of claims that aren’t
standardized and as a result don’t trade in deep and liquid
markets. Rather, they trade in illiquid and incomplete venues
such as over-the-counter markets, where prices are determined
via a bilateral trading and matching process.  Given that the assets of financial institutions trade in
markets with multiple frictions, our first insight tells us that
it isn’t obvious that reducing information asymmetry via fair-
value accounting is desirable.  The attached figure illustrates the dual role of prices in
the economy: Prices not only reflect the underlying
fundamentals, but also influence the actions of companies,
which, in turn, affect prices.  Our second insight tells us that, in relying on market
prices, there is the possibility of the emergence of a feedback
loop in which the anticipation of short-term price movements may
induce insiders of financial institutions to respond in ways
that amplify these price movements.  Feedback Effect  The more sensitive financial institutions are to short-term
price changes -- perhaps because of illiquid and incomplete
markets -- the stronger the feedback effect. When such effects
are strong, the decisions of financial institutions are more
likely to be based on second-guessing of their competitors than
on perceived fundamentals. Thus, the accounting norm itself may
become the source of additional, internally produced volatility,
as opposed to volatility that reflects the underlying
fundamentals.  Put differently, in trying to enhance market discipline,
reliance on market prices via fair-value accounting weakens
market discipline.  The recent financial crisis is a case in point. When
liquidity started drying up, some banks began to sell their
illiquid loans, putting downward pressure on prices.
Anticipating the fall in prices, other banks started selling
their loans and prices declined further, leading more banks to
sell their loans. The effects were so severe that prices no
longer reflected fundamentals but rather the amount of cash or
liquidity available to buyers in the market.  Information Asymmetry  If information asymmetry were the only friction between
insiders and outsiders, the feedback effect would be weak or
even nonexistent and prices would play their proper role of
providing market discipline. But in strategic environments with
multiple imperfections, market participants who try to extract
the informational content of current prices distort this very
content by adding an extra, nonfundamental component to price
fluctuations.  As a result, the choice of an appropriate measurement
regime amounts to a dilemma between ignoring price signals -- as
one would in a historical-cost regime -- and relying on their
degraded versions, as would be done in a fair-value regime.  In their quest for greater transparency, standard setters
should be mindful of the limitations of market discipline. When
there are multiple imperfections in an economy, removing just
one need not always improve welfare.  Accounting measurement rules can have substantial real
effects, and understanding these real effects would go a long
way toward addressing the policy implications of increasing
financial reporting transparency.  ( Haresh Sapra  is professor of accounting at the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business, and a contributor to
Business Class. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Haresh Sapra at  Haresh.Sapra@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 