-- 
Morgan Stanley Among Panel Members Working on New Climate Bond

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-09-01T12:51:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/morgan-stanley-among-panel-members-working-on-new-climate-bond.html
Executives from Morgan Stanley and
Catalyst Capital Investors are among new members of an advisory
panel for the Climate Bonds Initiative, formed to help put
together a new $300-million bond by an unspecified issuer.  The new bond, issued in Australian dollars, will probably
be a refinancing of a group of wind-energy loans and will use a
standard being established by the London-based  Climate Bonds
Initiative , said Sean Kidney, chairman of the initiative. He
declined to be more specific because the bond was not yet public
knowledge.  The initiative is seeking to encourage investors to use the
new standard to help encourage projects that curb emissions
blamed for  climate change , Kidney said today by phone.  The four new advisory panel members are Imtiaz Ahmad,
carbon trader and  executive director  at Morgan Stanley in
London, Jonathan C. Bianco, Houston-based managing director of
Catalyst Capital Investors,  Henry Derwent , chief executive
officer of the Geneva-based International Emissions Trading
Association, and Anthony Hobley, Sydney-based global head of
climate change at lawfirm Norton Rose LLP, Kidney said.  “Public and private sector partnerships for climate
finance initiatives will be of growing importance as we
approach” United Nations climate talks in Durban,  South Africa ,
in November, Ahmad said today by e-mail.  Leveraging private-sector finance in an environment of
“scarce public-sector resources” is crucial in order to
achieve the large-scale of investment needed to protect the
climate, he said.  Morgan Stanley in May last year urged developing nations to
consider selling green bonds to spur investment in climate-
protection policies and projects.  A lack of certainty on regulation of greenhouse-gas
emissions worldwide may otherwise result in a “massive scaling
down” of spending, Ahmad said at the time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  