-- 
TD Becomes Fifth Canadian Bank to Top Profit Estimates

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-09-01T20:06:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/toronto-dominion-becomes-fifth-canadian-lender-to-exceed-profit-estimates.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  became the
fifth Canadian lender to report third-quarter earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates even as the country’s biggest lenders
warn of a slowdown in consumer lending next year.  Toronto-Dominion said profit for the period ended July 31
climbed 23 percent to C$1.45 billion ($1.48 billion), or C$1.58
a share, from C$1.18 billion, or C$1.29 a year earlier. The bank
raised its dividend for the second time in three quarters.  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest by the World
Economic Forum for the past three years, are cautioning that
profit growth may slow this year and in 2012 along with the
global economy. Analysts including  Brian Klock  at Keefe Bruyette
& Woods Inc. and Cheryl Pate at Morgan Stanley Research have
reduced 2012 profit estimates at lenders including Royal Bank of
Canada and  National Bank of Canada. (NA)   “There’s lots of uncertainty in what’s going on in the
broader economy as well as in financial markets,” Toronto-
Dominion Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said today in
a telephone interview.  Royal Bank Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon on Aug. 26
warned of “significant headwinds” for banks after his company
posted profit that missed analysts’ estimates for the sixth time
in seven quarters.  Fragile Markets  “Markets will likely remain fragile and may continue to be
volatile,” Nixon said in a conference call with analysts.
“Banks around the world are facing other significant headwinds
such as a slowdown in consumer lending and the added difficulty
of operating in a prolonged low interest rate environment.”  Canadian bank shares have rallied along with earnings,
relative to global lenders. Toronto-Dominion rose C$1.13, or 1.5
percent, to C$78.60 in 4 p.m. trading on the Toronto Stock
Exchange. TD surpassed  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  earlier today as the
largest company in Canada by market value. The 10-member S&P/TSX
Banks Index was little changed in August, compared a 13 percent
drop for the 24-member  KBW Bank Index (BKX) , whose members include
 Wells Fargo & Co (WFC)  and Bank of America.  Toronto-Dominion, the second biggest bank, joined Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce,  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , National Bank and
 Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  by topping analysts’ estimates for the
quarter.  Laurentian Bank of Canada (LB)  and  Canadian Western Bank (CWB) ,
Canada’s seventh- and eighth-largest lenders, are scheduled to
release results tomorrow.  Toronto-Dominion said today in a statement that it could be
“some time before the economy strengthens.”  Strength and Stability  Canada’s economy shrank in the second quarter for the first
time since 2009 as exports declined the most in two years,
Statistics  Canada  reported yesterday. Domestic strength has
helped insulate Canada from weakness in demand coming from other
Group of Seven countries since the 2008 financial crisis.  “If the pundits are correct on the slowing U.S. economy
and that we’re in a soft period for a while here, that will
affect Canada,” said  John Kinsey , who helps manage about C$2
billion at Caldwell Securities Ltd., including Canadian banks.  Toronto-Dominion raised its quarterly dividend 3 percent to
68 cents a share, joining Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce as
the only banks to boost payouts this quarter. The bank was
expected to increase its dividend to 70 cents a share, according
to the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Dominant Franchise  Canada’s second-largest bank earned C$1.72 a share before
one-time items, topping the C$1.62-a-share average estimate of
13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “TD is demonstrating its superiority as a dominant
franchise,” said  Bob Decker , a money manager at Aurion Capital
Management in Toronto who oversees about C$5.5 billion. “This
fact is not lost on investors who are finally fed up with the
chronic underperformance of Royal Bank.”  Canadian consumer banking profit climbed 13 percent to a
record C$954 million because of increases in business and real
estate lending.  Asset-management results, which includes the stake in U.S.
online brokerage TD Ameritrade Holding Corp., climbed 8.9
percent to C$195 million. Investment-banking profit fell 40
percent to C$108 million on lower revenue from fixed-income and
currency trading.  ‘They Keep Buying’  Consumer banking profit in the U.S. climbed 12 percent to
C$317 million. Toronto-Dominion has spent more than $25 billion
on acquisitions in the U.S. since 2005, including the $6.3
billion purchase of auto lender Chrysler Financial.  “They’re becoming more of a U.S. franchise because they
keep buying,” said Todd Johnson, a  money manager  at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which oversees C$300 million
in assets including Toronto-Dominion. “Anybody investing in TD
is looking over the next five years of an eventual recovery, and
look at the platform and scale they’ve built down there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 