-- 
Toronto-Dominion Bank Third-Quarter Profit Rises, Led by Consumer Lending

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-09-01T11:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/toronto-dominion-bank-third-quarter-profit-rises-led-by-consumer-lending.html
Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) , the last of
 Canada ’s six main banks to report earnings, said third-quarter
profit climbed 23 percent on increases at its U.S. and Canadian
consumer banks. The lender boosted its dividend for the second
time in three quarters.  Net income in the period ended July 31 rose to C$1.45
billion ($1.48 billion), or C$1.58 a share, from C$1.18 billion,
or C$1.29, a year earlier, Canada’s second-biggest bank said
today in a statement.  Consumer-banking in Canada and the U.S. had record adjusted
profit of about C$1.5 billion, Chief Financial Officer Colleen Johnston said, led by asset and deposit growth. The bank has a
“cautious” outlook for 2012.  “There’s lots of uncertainty in what’s going on in the
broader economy as well as in financial markets,” Johnston said
today in a telephone interview. “But as you step back from it,
you see the strength and stability of TD’s model, the fact that
we have such a significant business mix in the retail bank and
that those retail earnings are performing so exceptionally
well.”  Toronto-Dominion raised its quarterly dividend 3 percent to
68 cents a share, joining Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce as
the only banks to boost payouts this quarter. The bank was
expected to increase its dividend to 70 cents a share, according
to the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast.  Tops Forecast  Excluding one-time items, Toronto-Dominion earned C$1.72 a
share. That topped the C$1.62-a-share average estimate of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Toronto-Dominion rose C$2.01, or 2.7 percent, to C$77.47 in
trading yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The shares have
risen 4.3 percent this year, compared with a decline of less
than 1 percent for the 10-member S&P/TSX Banks Index.  Canadian consumer banking profit climbed 13 percent to a
record C$954 million because of increases in business lending
and real estate lending.  “The platform is so profitable, it’s really punching above
its weight in terms of contribution to earnings,” Stonecap
Securities analyst  Brad Smith  said before results were released.  Asset-management results, which includes the stake in U.S.
online brokerage  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , climbed 8.9
percent to C$195 million. Investment-banking profit fell 40
percent to C$108 million because of lower revenue in fixed
income and  currency trading .  U.S. Banking  Consumer banking profit in the U.S. climbed 12 percent to
C$317 million. Toronto-Dominion has spent more than $25 billion
on acquisitions in the U.S. since 2005, including the $6.3
billion purchase of auto lender Chrysler Financial.  “They’re becoming more of a U.S. franchise because they
keep buying,” said  Todd Johnson , a  money manager  at BCV Asset
Management in Winnipeg, Manitoba, which oversees C$300 million
in assets including Toronto-Dominion. “Anybody investing in TD
is looking over the next five years of an eventual recovery, and
look at the platform and scale they’ve built down there.”  Canadian Imperial, Bank of Montreal,  National Bank of
Canada  and Bank of Nova Scotia topped analysts’ estimates this
quarter, while Royal Bank of Canada missed expectations.  Laurentian Bank  of Canada and  Canadian Western Bank  are
scheduled to release results tomorrow.  (Toronto-Dominion will hold a conference call at 3 p.m. Toronto
time. To listen, dial +1-416-644-3416 or +1-877-974-0445.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  