-- 
Palin’s Posturing on White House Contest Signals Last Call for Candidates

-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-09-01T15:13:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/palin-s-posturing-on-white-house-contest-signals-last-call-for-candidates.html
For Republicans still in search of
the perfect someone to defeat President  Barack Obama  in 2012,
it’s almost last call and all eyes are on Sarah Palin.  The first nomination balloting is five months away and
assembling the national political organization needed for a
presidential campaign typically takes months of fundraising,
planning and execution.  Three candidate debates are also set for September, as
party activists in early voting states begin to focus more
closely on the contest after Labor Day.  That narrows potential latecomers to people with a big
name, lots of money, or both. Palin, the party’s 2008 vice
presidential nominee, is about the only remaining undecided,
major party figure who fits those criteria.  “Regardless of what the public may think of Obama right
now, he created a new candidate: the charismatic rock star,”
said Steve Roberts, a former Republican National Committee
member and state party chairman in Iowa. “Palin was the only
Republican to reach that height.”  The Republican candidates in the race today don’t quite
have the star power Obama generated, he said.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry , who leapt to the top of the
polls, “at the moment, comes closest,” Roberts said, while
former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney is “long on
experience and mixed on being a star.” Roberts added: “Perry’s
problem is that some of his present and past views may be a
little rugged for the middle-of-the-road and independent folks,
hence, the continued search for Mr. or Ms. Wonderful.”  Keep Opponents Guessing  Palin is keeping her options open and her supporters -- and
detractors -- guessing.  “To be fair to those supporters and potential supporters,
who are waiting on figuring out what the set field will be, I
want to be fair to them and make sure that they don’t feel like
they are just hanging on to something that’s not going to
happen,” Palin, 47, said at the  Iowa  State Fair on Aug. 12.  Asked if she would announce her intentions before the end
of September, as she had previously indicated, Palin said yes.
“That’s still a possibility for a timetable, yes, definitely,”
she said.  The former Alaska governor will appear at Labor Day weekend
events in Iowa and  New Hampshire , the two states that will start
the nomination process early next year.  Iowa Speech  Palin’s appearance at a Tea Party rally south of  Des Moines 
was in question for part of yesterday amid media  reports  that
she had put the speech on hold after an invitation to the event
was also extended to failed U.S. Senate candidate Christine O’Donnell of  Delaware . The event’s organizers  uninvited 
O’Donnell and Palin was back on the schedule later in the day.  Craig Robinson, editor of the Iowa Republican website and a
former state party political director, said the confusion over
Palin’s attendance hurts her brand.  “All of this drama enforces all of her negatives,” he
said.  Palin faces approaching state filing deadlines for
presidential candidates, including one on Nov. 1 for the primary
in  South Carolina . The southern state is scheduled to follow
Iowa and New Hampshire in the nomination voting next year.  South Korea Visit  In a move that could be viewed as a distraction to a
potential presidential campaign, or a way to boost her foreign
policy background, Palin  plans  to visit  South Korea  in mid-
October to attend the World Knowledge Forum, according to the
Maeil Business Newspaper.  Palin traveled to  Israel  in March, when her political
action committee spent about $5,000 for her security, cars and
drivers there. That same month she traveled to  India , where she
spoke to business leaders, lobbyists and others.  An Associated Press-GfK  poll  released last week showed two-
thirds of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents are
pleased with the party’s field, compared with just half in June.  The still restive nature of the Republican search comes as
Obama, 50, appears politically vulnerable amid 9.1 percent
unemployment and approval ratings near lows of his presidency.  Romney has struggled to excite Republicans, while questions
have arisen about whether Perry, Representative  Michele Bachmann 
of  Minnesota  or Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  have broad
enough appeal for a general election.  ‘Republican Establishment’  “There are always some Republican establishment folks who
want somebody else,” said Henry Barbour, a Republican National
Committee member and nephew of Mississippi Governor  Haley Barbour . “But reality is reality. It’s almost impossible. If
someone can come up with $40 million to spend early next year on
those first few caucuses and primaries, then maybe they can
play, but they’d still have to do a lot of retail politics.”  Candidates typically spend months attending a mix of large
and small fundraising events early in a pre-presidential
election year. The lesser known, the more time he or she must
commit, because major donors often won’t give to a candidate
they haven’t been able to size up personally.  After Labor Day, finding time for fundraising becomes more
challenging because of the growing demands of retail politicking
in the early voting states. Palin, unlike other potential
candidates, could overcome that hurdle by raising large amounts
of money through leveraging her celebrity status.  Ryan, Christie  Representative  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin  and New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  have been encouraged to join the
contest, and both have denied any interest. Former New York City
Mayor  Rudy Giuliani , who unsuccessfully ran for president in
2008, is still considering whether he will get in.  “The people that aren’t in the race always look better,
but the people who are in are strong contenders,” said Alex Conant, a Republican strategist who advised former Minnesota
Governor  Tim Pawlenty  before his exit from the contest on Aug.
14. “We are past the point of that chatter being relevant. The
Republican nominee will be one of the people in the race, with
the possible exception of one or two outsiders.”  Palin is at the top of the list of those exceptions.  “She has such a unique position that even if she waits
beyond September, she commands so much attention and support,
she could create her own timeline,” Conant said.  Opposition to Palin  Palin would face a large bloc of voters already opposed to
her. A  poll  released Aug. 25 by the Pew Research Center found 41
percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning voters say there
is no chance they would vote for Palin.  Perry, 61, who formally announced his candidacy Aug. 13,
led the field of Republican candidates in a nationwide Gallup
 poll  released last week that showed him with support from 29
percent of Republicans and Republican-leaning independents. The
poll was taken Aug. 17-21 and had a margin of error of 4
percentage points.  Among other candidates now in the race, Gallup showed
Romney at 17 percent, followed by Paul at 13 percent. Bachmann,
who won the Aug. 13 Iowa Straw Poll of Republican activists, was
at 10 percent in the poll.  In Iowa, Perry has matched the level of support enjoyed by
Bachmann and Romney, according to a  poll  conducted Aug. 19-21 by
Public Policy Polling, a Raleigh, North Carolina-based company
associated with Democrats that does polls nationwide. The poll,
with a margin of error of 5.5 percentage points, showed Perry,
Romney and Bachmann in a statistical tie, with support ranging
from 18 percent to 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  