-- 
Panama’s Finance Minister Resigns on Ruling Coalition Split

-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 
2011-09-01T22:16:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/panama-s-finance-minister-resigns-after-ruling-coalition-splits.html
Panamanian Finance Minister Alberto Vallarino resigned amid a split in President Ricardo Martinelli’s ruling coalition, deepening a political crisis in
Central America’s fastest growing economy.  Vallarino, who said he will remain in his position until a
replacement is named, quit late yesterday after Martinelli
called on Vice President Juan Carlos Varela to step down as
foreign minister. Vallarino and Varela have both run for the
presidency under the opposition Panamenista party, which aligned
with Martinelli’s Democratic Change party in 2009.  In an e-mailed statement, Vallarino said he had contributed
to an investment climate that was “without precedent in our
history.”  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have placed
the country’s credit rating on a positive outlook, citing
economic growth of 7.2 percent in the first half of the year.
The rating was raised by  Fitch Ratings  in June to BBB, the
second-lowest investment grade, putting it on the same level as
Mexico and  Brazil .  The breakdown of the governing alliance isn’t likely to
harm the country’s credit rating, though Martinelli may be
“tempted” to bolster spending to shore up popular support,
Barclays Capital Inc. analysts Alejandro Arreaza and Alejandro Grisanti said in a research note to clients today.  “Right now, it’s just a domestic fight of who will run for
president in 2014,” Arreaza said in a phone interview. “But
all these political problems could eventually tarnish managing
public accounts.”  The extra yield investors demand to own Panama’s bonds over
U.S. Treasuries widened 10 basis points to 192, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 