-- 
Panasonic Says LCD Business Is Strategic, Doesn’t Plan Disposals

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-01T12:36:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/panasonic-says-lcd-business-is-strategic-doesn-t-plan-disposals.html
Panasonic Corp. (6752)  plans to keep its
liquid-crystal display business even after rivals Sony Corp.,
 Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  this week agreed to divest their
LCD units amid intensifying competition from South Korean and
Taiwanese producers.  LCD is a “tough business but it’s a strategic business,”
Panasonic’s head of European operations, Laurent Abadie, said in
an interview today in Berlin. Panasonic, based in  Osaka , Japan,
aims to generate 60 percent to 70 percent of its revenue in
 Europe  from environmentally-friendly offerings such as energy-
efficient home appliances by 2018, he said.  Panasonic, which posted its first annual profit in three
years last year, in April announced fresh job cuts as it tries
to transform itself into a leader of products such as solar
panels and rechargeable batteries as competition in TVs
stiffens. The maker of Viera TV and Lumix cameras spent more
than $6 billion purchasing stakes in Sanyo Electric Co. and
Panasonic Electric Works Co. last year to boost its energy-
related businesses.  The company, which in June said full-year profit will drop
59 percent, hurt by the  Japan  earthquake, is “working hard to
review operating costs” and the measures will result in some
“rationalizations,” Abadie said, without giving details.  Panasonic has no plans for further solar panels
acquisitions, Abadie said at the IFA consumer electronics fair.
“We’ll have to study on a case by case basis. Give us some time
to digest Sanyo,” he said.  Overlaps  The Sanyo acquisition also resulted in some overlaps and
Panasonic agreed to sell Sanyo’s washing machine and fridge unit
in July. Abadie said there are no plans for further disposals.  The LCD deal among Sony, Toshiba and Hitachi may create the
world’s biggest maker of LCDs for mobile phones and cameras as
Japanese companies struggle to compete against Korea’s Samsung
Electronics Co. and Taiwan’s  Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  in the larger
market for TV displays. Sony and Hitachi are unprofitable in
LCDs, while Toshiba ended losses at its display unit last fiscal
year.  “We have made investments in LCD production to make our
own production efficient and ready for future growth, which is
not the case with some of the other companies,” Abadie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Berlin via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  