-- 
Pemex Sees Potential Deep-Water Drilling With Repsol After Share Purchase

-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 
2011-09-02T18:38:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/pemex-sees-potential-for-repsol-partnerships-in-deep-waters-2-.html
Petroleos Mexicanos , the shareholder
doubling its stake in Spanish oil company  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , wants
to jointly drill in deep waters though media reports say Repsol
is resisting the growing power of  Mexico ’s state-owned company.  A deep-water project is “an alternative that we haven’t
discussed with Repsol, but could be a win-win for Repsol and
us,” Juan Jose Suarez Coppel, chief executive officer of the
company known as Pemex, said yesterday in Mexico City. The
company bought 56.38 million Repsol shares to increase its stake
by 4.62 percent, according to a  Madrid  regulatory filing today.  Pemex is seeking joint foreign projects to get knowledge
and technology applicable to Mexico, Suarez Coppel said. While
Pemex on Aug. 29 agreed with Sacyr Vallehermoso SA, the largest
shareholder in Repsol, to boost its stake and vote in a bloc to
revamp management, Repsol Chairman Antonio Brufau has asked
 Spain ’s government to block the accord, El Mundo reported today.  The Pemex-Sacyr agreement would alter the power balance in
Madrid-based Repsol, Spain’s largest oil company, which has a
market value of 24.4 billion euros ($34.8 billion) and
represents 7.8 percent of the weighting in the country’s IBEX 35
benchmark stock index, according to Bloomberg data.  Sacyr needs Repsol’s dividends to make interest payments on
the 4.9 billion euros it owes to a syndicate of banks for
funding the share acquisition in 2006. The loan comes due Dec.
21 this year, unless an extension is made.  Direct Competitor  Cinco Dias  today reported that Sacyr didn’t activate an
“automatic” one-year loan extension by a July 31 deadline and
is holding talks with banks, citing unidentified people in the
financial industry. A Sacyr spokeswoman declined to comment.  The Aug. 29 accord calls for Pemex to increase its Repsol
stake to 9.8 percent within a month. As of June 30, Pemex
reported a stake of 4.8 percent. Today’s announced stake, which
would have a market value of 1.16 billion euros as of Repsol’s
closing price yesterday, boosts Pemex’s stake to 9.4 percent.  Pemex acquired the new stake through several financial
institutions, including HSBC, Credit Agricole CIB, Natixis and
Grupo Financiero Inbursa, the filing said. Pemex financed 70
percent of the acquisition with debt and doesn’t plan further
purchases, Suarez Coppel said.  Sacyr, a Spanish construction company, plans to maintain
its 20 percent stake, according to the accord.  Pemex and Sacyr want to split Repsol’s chairmanship from
the chief executive officer role, also held by Brufau, and to
increase their board representation.  Repsol’s Challenge  Brufau and Repsol plan to challenge Pemex’s plan, saying
that the Mexican  oil company  is a direct competitor and it
creates a conflict of interest, Madrid-based El Pais newspaper
reported yesterday. A Repsol spokesman in Madrid declined to
comment today.  Suarez Coppel said there are no conflicts of interest or
personal disputes behind the accord with Sacyr.  “This transaction is to bring more transparency” to the
administration of Repsol, Suarez Coppel said. “This operation
is not about a specific project, not about dividends.”  Repsol gained 8.8 percent in the first three days after the
accord and today fell 3.7 percent to 19.795 euros in Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  