-- 
Pentagon Contracts Go to Midsize Vendors as Behemoths Brace for Cuts

-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 
2011-09-01T22:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/pentagon-business-goes-to-midsize-vendors-as-behemoths-brace-for-cuts.html
     Sept. 1 (Bloomberg BusinessWeek) -- Beetle Bailey, the comic
strip Army private, has peeled a lot of potatoes.  Real-life army grunts have more important things to do on
the modern battlefield, goes the thinking at the Pentagon these
days. The scut work—and a good deal more—is outsourced to
companies that can swoop in with people, basic resources, and
technical know-how.  CACI International and ManTech International have become two
of the most successful providers of technical services to the
U.S. armed forces as spending on contractors soared because of
wars in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan . Together they raked in $3.9 billion
last year from the military for providing everything from
security services to radar data analysis. “When DOD outsources
​work, it can surge and purge,” says  Todd Harrison , a defense
analyst at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in
Washington. “It can tell a contractor, ‘I want you to bring on
hundreds or thousands of people quickly,’ and they’ll do it.” And
when the job is done, “they’re gone,” he adds.  Services may be a relatively safe haven in an era of deep
defense cuts. Pentagon spending on services has grown 13 percent
since 2008, to $124 billion last year, while weapons
manufacturing declined 14.5 percent during the same period,
Bloomberg Government data show. Lockheed Martin still earned the
most from military services last year with $5.5 billion. Others
in the top five are similarly big names: KBR, Northrop Grumman,
L-3 Communications Holdings, and SAIC. The five companies sold
the Pentagon services worth $21 billion in 2010. Yet together
their service contracts decreased 7.5 percent between 2008 and
2010. In the same period, CACI and Mantech increased theirs by
more than 90 percent. In fiscal year 2010, CACI’s revenue was
$3.1 billion and ManTech’s $2.6 billion, small change compared
with Lockheed’s $45.8 billion.  A willingness to make less profit plays a role in CACI and
ManTech’s success, says Brian Kinstlinger, an equities analyst at
researcher Sidoti. “You have to be willing to do low-margin work.
If you’re willing to do it, you’re going to win a lot more work,”
he says.  ManTech’s orders include a bilingual team to support U.S.
counter-narcotics operations in  Colombia , field technicians to
work with software and computer systems overseas, and work on the
U.S. Army’s remote controlled airborne intelligence-gathering
system, known as Guardrail. CACI’s work ranges from analyzing
convoy routes in Iraq so troops can avoid improvised explosive
devices, to developing software for biometrics devices used at
checkpoints, to protecting sensitive data from cyberattack. Paul
Cofoni, CACI’s chief executive officer, says that whatever the
Pentagon’s need, “quick turnaround is the driving requirement.”  These midsize vendors, both headquartered in Washington’s
Northern Virginia suburbs, are getting bigger every year even
while their behemoth competitors are bracing for cuts to the
major weapons systems that drive their earnings. “Smaller
businesses can often be scrappier,” says Ray Bjorklund, chief
knowledge officer for Deltek Information Solutions, a federal
market analysis firm. “Companies that are more agile might be
able to compete more aggressively and successfully.”  Smaller companies excel at adapting to the military’s
changing technological needs and can be faster to respond to
changes in pricing or contract terms, says William Loomis, who
covers the defense services sector for Stifel Nicolaus, a St.
Louis-based financial services company. “We find that the midsize
to smaller companies can react more quickly than some of the
bigger ones,” he says.  Now, as defense contracts for fighter jets and armored
vehicles decline, some defense analysts predict that Lockheed and
other big players in the military-industrial complex may turn to
services to make up the difference.  Weapons manufacturers tend to increase their focus on
services such as those performed by CACI and ManTech only when
overall defense contract spending declines, as it did last year
for the first time in more than a decade, says David J. Berteau,
director of defense-industrial initiatives at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, a  Washington  research
organization. “I would expect that the competition will get
keener and tighter,” he says.  Companies will have to get even leaner to thrive in the new
environment, especially as funding for overseas wars that
bolstered the services sector declines, Harrison says. “They’re
going to have to lay off people and do it quickly if they want to
remain profitable,” he says.