-- 
Pernod-Ricard Earnings Growth Matches Analyst Estimates

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-09-01T13:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/pernod-posts-earnings-in-line-with-estimates.html
Pernod-Ricard SA (RI) , Europe’s second-
largest distiller, reported annual profit growth in line with
analyst estimates as strong sales in emerging markets offset
tough conditions in Spain and  Greece .  Earnings before interest and taxes, excluding one-time
items and the effects of acquisitions and disposals, rose 8
percent to 1.9 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in the year ended
June 30, the Paris-based company said today, matching an 8
percent median increase estimated by 10 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Pernod had forecast growth of “close to 7
percent.”  “Results were very solid, but in line with expectations,”
Simon Hales, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , wrote
today. “Although deleveraging has continued in the year, there
was no positive surprise here.”  The shares fell as  much as 3.5 percent, and traded at
60.53 euros, down 3.2 percent, at 2:48 p.m. in Paris. France’s
benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC)  slid 0.5 percent.  Competitor  Diageo Plc (DGE) , the world’s biggest distiller,
reported 5 percent full-year growth for both organic sales and
Ebit on Aug. 25, and set a “medium-term” goal of improving
organic sales by an average 6 percent and improving earnings as
a proportion of revenue.  “With macro worries continuing around higher indebted
stocks like Pernod and given that Diageo remains cheaper on an
EV/Ebitda measure, we’re seeing a little switching between the
two names at the margin,” Barclays Capital’s Hale wrote.  Net Debt  Pernod has net debt of 9.04 billion euros and will continue
to pay down debt with free  cash flow , the company said in a
statement today.  Pernod, the maker of Chivas Regal Scotch whisky, is among
distillers and brewers looking to emerging markets for growth as
government budget cuts to address record deficits reduce
 consumer confidence  across  Europe . Sales at Pernod’s Asia/Rest
of World unit rose 15 percent in organic terms while revenue in
Europe outside France remained stable, as declining sales in
Greece and Spain offset a recovery in central and eastern
Europe.  Organic sales, excluding acquisitions or disposals, rose 7
percent compared with analysts’ median growth estimate of 6.5
percent. Total revenue increased 7.9 percent to 7.6 billion
euros, matching the average estimate of 27 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Emerging Markets  “All the regions were positive including Europe,” Chief
Executive Officer Pierre Pringuet said in a phone interview.
“Strong dynamism” in emerging markets continued, the CEO said
in today’s statement.  “Deleveraging remains the priority,” Pringuet said,
“which means no strategic acquisitions.”  Pernod increased its advertising and promotional spending
as a percentage of revenue to 18.9 percent from 17.8 percent a
year earlier, it said, with 76 percent of spending focused on
its top 14 brands, which include Absolut vodka and Ballantine’s
whisky.  “Having a higher level of A&P is good as it’s a source of
growth,” Chief Financial Officer Gilles Bogaert said today in
an interview. The ratio of spending to sales could go on
increasing, but at a slower pace, he said, and in the medium
term will stabilize.  Pernod has “been able to do better than most of our
competitors” in  Spain  by continuing to promote brands, Bogaert
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in Paris at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  