-- 
Perry’s ‘Pay-to-Play’ Job-Incentive Funds Miss Targets in Texas

-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/perry-s-pay-to-play-job-incentive-funds-miss-targets-in-texas.html
Rick Perry  touts Texas as home to
more new jobs in the past decade than any other state. Yet the
taxpayer-funded programs he has used to lure employers and
finance expansion often fail to meet employment goals, according
to officials and activists.  While basing his bid for the Republican presidential
nomination on limited government, the governor, 61, oversees
state job-stimulating funds that have provided almost $633
million to companies including retailers  Cabela’s Inc. (CAB)  and  Home
Depot Inc. (HD)  and agribusinesses such as  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)  A Perry
spokeswoman says the recipients have created almost 58,400 new
jobs. A watchdog group says two-thirds missed their targets.  Democrats including Jim Dunnam, a former state
representative from Waco, also knock Perry for using the funds
to reward contributors and for delivering taxpayer money to
businesses as schools and health care are shortchanged. Some
Republicans have faulted the programs for inadequate disclosure
and not reporting on jobs actually created.  “It’s legal plunder,” said state Representative David
Simpson, a Longview Republican backed by Tea Party activists.  “You can’t avoid the appearance of impropriety when you
take money from everyone and you give it to a select few,” said
the first-term lawmaker. He opposes using tax money for business
and said he voted against the school funding deal Perry signed.  ‘Pay-to-Play’  Funding recipients have included Washington Mutual, now a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  unit, and Countrywide Financial, now owned
by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Perry’s campaigns received at least
$8,500 in donations from both political action committees and/or
from individuals tied to Washington Mutual and $7,000 connected
to Countrywide, state Ethics Commission records show.  “It’s a pay-to-play deal, always has been,” said Dunnam,
the former representative, who was on a legislative committee
that oversaw development funds.  Applicants for development-fund money “are thoroughly
vetted and go through a rigorous review,” Lucy Nashed, a Perry
spokeswoman, said by e-mail in response to questions about the
connections between recipients and political contributions.  “The governor is interested in finding the highest and
best use of the state incentive funds,” Nashed said.  Sanderson Farms  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , a Laurel, Mississippi-based poultry
producer, received $500,000 in fiscal 2007 to help build a plant
in Waco. Joe Sanderson Jr., chairman and chief executive
officer, gave $100,000 to Perry’s campaign committee in two
$50,000 contributions, in 2009 and 2010. Sanderson didn’t
respond to a request for comment through an assistant.  Donors to the governor have benefited in other ways. Dallas
billionaire Harold Simmons, who has given more than $1.2 million
to Perry campaigns, won permission to build a radioactive-waste
dump in West Texas over the objection of state environmental
regulatory employees worried about possible water contamination.  “It seems to help if you donate to Perry,” said Craig McDonald, executive director of Texans for Public Justice, a
nonprofit political-watchdog group. “There’s a correlation
between those who pay and those who get from Perry.”  McDonald’s Austin-based group tied $17.1 million in Perry
political support to 921 appointees, or their spouses, on state
boards and commissions, in a September 2010 report. The
donations were made from 2001 to June 2010, the group said.  Perry, who became governor in December 2000 when  George W.
Bush  resigned ahead of his presidential inauguration, says his
 job-creation  record makes him the best-qualified to take on
President  Barack Obama  in 2012. Perry also has attacked Obama’s
economic stimulus as unfocused  government spending .  Governor Oversees Funds  Under the governor, the state created both the Texas
Enterprise Fund in 2003 and the Texas Emerging Technology Fund
in 2005. Perry directly oversees both, as well as a third set up
to aid film and television production. Such programs steer
public money into businesses and promotions for sports events,
as a way to boost the economy.  For example, the state plans to provide $25 million a year
for a decade to bring Formula One car racing to Austin, through
a program to support special events. The same fund has been
tapped to promote the  National Football League ’s Super Bowl
championship in  Dallas  and college basketball tournaments. B.J. “Red” McCombs, a co-founder of broadcaster Clear Channel
Communications who backs the Formula One project, has given more
than $170,000 to Perry’s campaign committee, the records show.  Assessing the job-creation results from the incentive
programs is difficult, critics including Dunnam and McDonald
say. The funds haven’t had to report the numbers of new
positions produced by recipients, and there are few independent
studies to compare with figures provided by Nashed.  Job Creation  The enterprise fund has spurred the creation of 58,382 jobs
by investing $435.6 million, said Nashed, the governor’s
spokeswoman. Perry has referred to it as the largest “deal
closing fund” in the U.S.  “We’ve worked hard here in  Texas  to create an economic
environment that attracts jobs and allows employers to risk
their capital and receive a good return,” Nashed said. “Each
of these jobs represents a livelihood for a Texan and their
family, and helps strengthen the state’s economy.”  Only 11 of 50 recipients of enterprise fund money that had
promised to create jobs by 2009 met their goals, Texans for
Public Justice, the political-watchdog group, said in a
September 2010 report, among the most comprehensive available.
It said more than 10 percent of the 50 projects examined were
terminated, 14 managed to get their agreements amended to cut
employment targets and 13 simply broke their pledges. The
remainder fell somewhere in between.  Conflicting Figures  By the end of 2009, companies receiving enterprise fund
money listed 22,544 jobs created in Texas, according to the
report. An additional 8,147 were tied to three projects that
also got cash from the program. The study said Perry claimed in
January 2010 that the fund had spurred the creation of 54,600
jobs.  “The jobs are just projected jobs,” said McDonald. “Our
contention is that they weren’t created and may never be
created.”  Since December 2000, Texas employers have added more than 1
million nonfarm positions, even as the U.S. total was little
changed, according to Labor Department figures. By 2008, when
state payroll employment peaked at about 10.7 million,
Comptroller Susan Combs, also a Republican, said six state
economic-development programs including the funds overseen by
Perry were responsible for less than 1 percent of those jobs.  Unknown to Lawmakers  The number of new jobs resulting from development-fund
projects remains an unknown to lawmakers.  When enterprise fund employees appeared before the
Legislature, they often couldn’t or wouldn’t testify about the
positions actually created, said Dunnam, a lawmaker from 1997 to
early this year. Instead, the workers talked about jobs promised
to result from incentive money.  “They didn’t want us to know what the actual number of
jobs created was,” said Dunnam, a member of the economic
development committee that oversaw the funds. “You’d just get
the runaround.”  When Simpson, the Longview Republican, tried to cut off the
incentive funds in May, Perry called him into his office for a
meeting. Perry was “sensitive” to criticism of the programs,
the lawmaker said.  “He took offense at my call for more transparency,” said
Simpson, 50. Nashed, Perry’s spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the meeting.  Auditor Seeks Transparency  Simpson wasn’t alone in seeking changes in reporting from
the emerging technology fund.  Closed-door funding decisions should be more transparent,
Auditor John Keel said in a report in April. He also said the
state needed to improve so-far limited monitoring of cash
recipients and cited inadequate reporting by the organizations
that got taxpayer money.  The technology fund has handed out $197.2 million to 133
“early stage” companies as well as $173 million in research
grants to state universities, Nashed said. Actual job figures
for the fund aren’t available because they weren’t part of
reporting requirements, she said. The Legislature has since made
such reports mandatory.  The administration follows legislated requirements for
monitoring and providing data to state lawmakers “detailing the
status of the state’s investments,” Nashed said.  The enterprise and technology funds require a “detailed
application process” before being presented to Perry, she said.  Shared Control  Perry, along with Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst and
Joe Straus, the speaker of the  House of Representatives , make
the final decisions on funding. Dewhurst and Straus are both
Republicans.  Money for the technology fund was included in the budget
for the two years that begin today, even after lawmakers closed
an estimated $15 billion deficit partly by shortchanging schools
and Medicaid, the health-care program for the poor.  Legislators including Simpson have questioned whether the
state should be picking private companies to support with
taxpayer dollars. The freshman Republican said the state
shouldn’t use its resources for that purpose.  “If it was a level playing field, the market would
allocate capital to the right places,” Simpson said.  Others have questioned whether Perry should be running
government-funded job-creation programs as he attacks Obama’s
$825 billion economic-stimulus measure.  Stimulus No Answer  “Government doesn’t create jobs, otherwise the last two
and a half years of stimulus would have worked,” Perry said in
an Aug. 10 speech in  San Antonio . “Government can only create
the environment that allows the private sector to create jobs.”  The state’s development funds “are important tools to help
strengthen Texas’s economic environment, and help the state
compete for jobs and investment,” Nashed said.  If elected president, Perry said he wouldn’t push a
stimulus program, in an Aug. 29 speech in Tulsa, the  Associated
Press  reported. Perry hasn’t flinched from taking and spending
about $17 billion from Obama’s 2009 American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act funds, according to  David Axelrod , a Chicago-
based political adviser to the president’s re-election campaign.  While the federal spending isn’t targeted and raised the
national debt, Nashed said, the Texas program is funded by a
balanced budget and “has a laser focus on job creation.” She
said comparing the state’s development programs with Obama’s
stimulus measure isn’t fair.  “I don’t know why federal stimulus is bad and state
stimulus is good,” Dunnam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  