-- 
Peruvian Consumer Prices Rose 0.27 Percent in August, Less Than in July

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-09-01T15:44:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/peruvian-consumer-prices-rose-0-27-percent-in-august-less-than-in-july.html
Peruvian monthly inflation slowed in
August after increasing at the fastest pace in three years the
previous month, as the lower cost of imported grains offset
higher electricity prices.  Consumer prices rose 0.27 percent last month, down from
0.79 percent in July, the National Statistics Institute said in
a statement published today in the official gazette. The median
estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for prices
to rise 0.29 percent.  Inflation eased as companies passed on declines in
international wheat and corn prices, which fell during June and
July. Though international grain prices rose last month, slower
global growth is likely to help contain imported inflation
pressures, said  Mario Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank Peru.  “In the coming months, there’ll be less pressure from
prices linked to imports and greater pressures from those linked
to domestic demand, which have been on an upward path,”
Guerrero said in a phone interview from  Lima .  Monthly food inflation slowed to 0.35 percent in August
from July’s three-year high of 1.64 percent, the agency said in
an e-mailed report. Prices for chicken, which are fed on
imported corn, rose 0.3 percent after surging 16 percent in
July. Electricity rose 1.6 percent after a 0.9 percent increase
the previous month.  Annual inflation held at a two-year high of 3.35 percent
last month, the agency said.  Food, Oil  International food and crude oil prices have pushed the
inflation rate “temporarily” outside policy makers’ 1 percent
to 3 percent target range, central bank President Julio Velarde
said in comments posted on the  Finance Ministry ’s website last
week.  The central bank, which raised its benchmark lending rate
to a two-year high in May, stands ready to adjust monetary
policy if the global economy worsens, Velarde said.  The government said Aug. 25 an average 5 percent increase
in fuel prices will be phased in over two months. Peru is a net
importer of crude oil, soybeans, corn and wheat. Food and drink
products constitute 38 percent of the  consumer price index .  The country’s annual inflation rate will probably
accelerate to 3.8 percent this year and slow to about 2.7
percent in 2012, Scotiabank’s Guerrero said.  The Peruvian sol was unchanged at 2.7265 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:37 a.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 