-- 
Pfizer May Get Generic Lipitor Delay Amid Ranbaxy FDA Troubles

-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/pfizer-may-get-generic-lipitor-delay.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  may get a reprieve from
generic competition to its $11 billion Lipitor cholesterol pill
as  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  fights regulatory breaches that 
threaten to derail its push to produce the first U.S. copies.  Ranbaxy,  India ’s third-largest drugmaker by revenue, plans
to introduce its copy of Lipitor, the world’s best-selling
medicine, on Nov. 30. It must first persuade the  Food and Drug
Administration  that its copy is equivalent to the original and
that approval shouldn’t be thwarted by violations cited in 2009
at a plant identified in Ranbaxy’s drug application.  Failure to resolve the issue could prevent the FDA from
clearing Ranbaxy’s Lipitor version by that date, said  Ira Loss ,
an analyst with Washington Analysis. A delay also may stall
plans by other generic-drug companies to introduce their
versions of the $11 billion-a-year medicine, he said.  “I don’t remember another case where timely approval of
the first generic on a big drug appears dependent upon cleaning
up a mess in their manufacturing situation,” said Loss, who has
followed the FDA for more than three decades. “Ranbaxy has
repeatedly expressed confidence that this will all get resolved
in time, but I’m not sure I believe them.”  Ranbaxy’s woes could also delay savings for the 3.5 million
Americans who take Lipitor. A new generic medicine sometimes
costs less than half the price of the original.  Americans spend $7 billion a year on Lipitor, according to
Michael Kleinrock, director of research development at the IMS
Institute for Healthcare Informatics in Parsippany,  New Jersey .
Generic-drug competition could cut that spending by $6 billion
through 2015, he said.  Six Months Exclusivity  Ranbaxy says it plans to sell generic Lipitor with six
months marketing exclusivity starting the last day of November.
While a 1984 law grants that right to companies that are the
first to challenge a drug’s patent, as Ranbaxy says it was with
Lipitor, the pending FDA enforcement action may disrupt plans.  At least nine companies have sought FDA approval to sell
Lipitor copies, according to U.S. court filings.  Mylan Inc. (MYL) ,
 Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories
Ltd., have settled Lipitor patent disputes with Pfizer and may
start selling copies after Ranbaxy’s 180-day exclusivity
expires. Dr. Reddy’s, India’s second biggest drugmaker,
announced its settlement yesterday without disclosing details.  Those rivals may see their versions of generic Lipitor
delayed if Ranbaxy fails to win clearance of its drug by Nov.
30, yet retains its six-month exclusivity, said Loss. The
resulting lack of competition for Lipitor sales would give
Pfizer a “de facto patent extension,” Loss said.  Watson Gain  Without a Ranbaxy approval, the only generic Lipitor to
reach the market Nov. 30 would be an authorized version sold by
 Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  under an agreement with Pfizer. That
pill doesn’t require FDA clearance because Pfizer will provide
Lipitor to Watson to sell without the brand label in return for
a share of the sales.  “Since Pfizer controls the supply of the authorized
generic, it would be a bonanza for Pfizer, and maybe even for
Watson, if there’s no other generic product out there,” Loss
said. Pfizer reported $10.7 billion in worldwide Lipitor sales
last year.  Watson may price generic Lipitor at only 5 percent less
than Pfizer’s branded version if it doesn’t face immediate
competition from Ranbaxy’s copy, said Ronny Gal, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  Watson hasn’t disclosed its plans, said Patty Eisenhaur, a
company spokeswoman, in an e-mail. “Should Ranbaxy be delayed
on Nov. 30, we are prepared to supply the entire generic market
with product,” she said.  Divvying Market Share  Ranbaxy may gain a 20 percent market share if its copy wins
approval, Gal said. Teva and Mylan each may gain 15 to 20
percent of the market if their generic versions are approved,
while Pfizer would have 30 percent of the market after three
years, Gal said.  “I’m holding my breath until the FDA acts on Ranbaxy’s
application,” possibly within a month, said Kleinrock. “It’s
unprecedented to have a large manufacturer in such limbo so
close to when it’s scheduled to start marketing a drug.’  Ranbaxy, 64 percent owned by Tokyo-based  Daiichi Sankyo
Co. (4568) , could gain $400 million to $500 million in revenue from its
generic version in the six months of exclusive sales, Deepak Malik and Ashish Thavkar of Emkay Global Financial Services Ltd.
in Mumbai wrote in an Aug. 6 report.  The U.S. enforcement actions against Ranbaxy began in 2008
when the FDA cited manufacturing defects at two of the company’s
India plants and subsequently barred it from importing 31
different drugs. The ban is still in effect. The following year,
the agency said one of those plants in Paonta Sahib, India,
falsified data used in drug applications.  Questions of Data Reliability  In a February 2009 letter to the company, the FDA said the
findings “indicate a pattern and practice of submitting untrue
statements of material fact and other wrongful conduct, which
raise significant questions regarding the reliability of the
data” in Ranbaxy’s drug submissions.  “Ranbaxy continues to work together with USA regulators
for a confidential resolution” to the violations cited by FDA,
Managing Director Arun Sawhney said Aug. 5 on a company earnings
call. “The negotiations are progressing well so far.”  Ranbaxy spokesmen Krishnan Ramalingam and Raghu Kochar
didn’t respond to e-mails seeking comment on the settlement
negotiations or the FDA’s review of its Lipitor copy.  Shelly Burgess, an FDA spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the agency’s pending review of Ranbaxy’s application, or on the
company’s negotiations with the FDA and  Justice Department 
regarding the plant violations.  Court Filings  A refusal to approve the drug “would not necessarily
extinguish the possibility of exclusivity until Ranbaxy had
exhausted all of its available appeals,” the FDA said in an
April 4 court filing, responding to a lawsuit by Mylan.  Mylan’s lawsuit, dismissed May 3 by a federal judge, had
sought to force the FDA to act on Ranbaxy’s application.  If Ranbaxy anticipates a lengthy approval delay, it could
waive its 180-day exclusivity in exchange for a payment from a
rival generic drugmaker, Credit Suisse equity analysts Edward J. Kelly and Rajat Suri said Aug. 17 in a note to investors. It
also could partner with another drugmaker to make generic
Lipitor and split the sales, Gal said.  “Either they do it alone, or they do it with someone
else” to gain timely FDA approval, Gal said. “That is the most
likely outcome.”  Pfizer has been preparing for the effects of generic
competition to Lipitor and 18 other drugs from 2010 through 2015
by selling business units and buying back shares.  Pharmacy-Benefits Managers  Express Scripts ,  Medco Health Solutions Inc. (MHS)  and  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS)  are among pharmacy-benefits managers that will
benefit as blockbuster medicines go generic, said Helene Wolk, a
Bernstein analyst in New York. The companies act as middlemen
among drugmakers, pharmacies and health-plan sponsors to
negotiate prices and manage patients’ use of drugs. Profits are
tied to cutting patient drug costs.  “Generics are the key growth driver across the PBM
universe,” Wolk said in an interview. If Lipitor copies stall,
“at least 25 percent of the earnings growth” from that generic
in 2012 will disappear, she said.  An FDA rejection of Ranbaxy’s product may delay the rollout
of generic Lipitor by as long as a year, Steve Scala, an analyst
at Cowen & Co. in  Boston , said May 3 in a note to clients.  “Such a delay would draw enormous pressure from various
constituents, including Congress and other public interest
groups,” Scala said. “In order to avoid this pressure, the FDA
will find it expedient to approve” Ranbaxy’s application, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  