-- 
PGA Tour Extends Television Deals With CBS, NBC Nine Years Through 2021

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-09-01T18:20:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/pga-tour-extends-television-deals-with-cbs-nbc-nine-years-through-2021.html
The U.S. PGA Tour reached nine-year
television contract extensions with  CBS Corp. (CBS)  and  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC through 2021 as the networks prepare to focus more
on golf’s rising stars and less on Tiger Woods.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed by Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem during a conference call. Finchem said the rights “were
increasing” without providing dollar figures or percentages.  The new contracts were reached as Woods’s winless streak
has reached 22 months. The 14-time major-tournament winner, who
boosted television ratings by as much as 50 percent when he was
in contention, according to Nielsen Co. figures, has slipped to
No. 38 in the Official World Golf Ranking.  Woods had “much less of an impact than the last time we
spoke to the  PGA Tour ,”  CBS Sports  Chairman Sean McManus said
in a telephone interview. “We were very conservative with
respect to Tiger’s effect. If Tiger plays well and is a factor
in these tour events as he has been in the past, that will be a
big bonus for us. We have not counted on that with respect to
our business model.”  The tour’s current network contracts, reached in 2006 and
worth $2.95 billion, were set to expire after the 2012 season.
The tour’s contract with Comcast’s Golf Channel also expires in
2021.  Woods, 35, didn’t qualify for the tour’s season-ending
playoff events, which continue this week with the  Deutsche Bank
Championship  in Norton,  Massachusetts .  Average Telecasts  CBS will continue to broadcast an average of 20 tournaments
through the life of the agreements, while NBC will continue to
televise an average of 10 events per year.  Although Woods’s woes may have led to a decrease in
viewership among casual fans, the rise of young players, such as
 Dustin Johnson , the winner of last week’s Barclays tournament in
 New Jersey , has given networks security that support for golf
will remain strong over the next decade, McManus said.  “We’re not at all pessimistic about ratings going
forward,” he said. “It’s just that we haven’t assumed the kind
of extraordinary bump we all got used to two and three years
ago. If I didn’t think the ratings of golf programming were
going to be consistent and hopefully grow in the future, there’s
no way we would have done a nine-year deal.”  While ratings for most events have increased this year,
according to Finchem and network executives, final-round ratings
of the three U.S.-based major tournaments declined an average of
18 percent this season without Woods in contention.  Masters Ratings  The  Masters Tournament  in April was watched by 13 percent
fewer U.S. households as a final-round rally by Woods wasn’t
enough to overtake winner  Charl Schwartzel .  Final-round ratings for the  U.S. Open , won by Rory McIlroy
in June, were down 26 percent on NBC. Woods skipped the
tournament due to knee and ankle injuries. The 2010 U.S. Open,
won by Graeme McDowell at California’s Pebble Beach, concluded
in prime-time for part of the U.S.  Last month’s  PGA Championship , won by Keegan Bradley, had a
14 percent drop in final-round ratings from a year earlier,
according to CBS. Woods failed to qualify for weekend play for
the first time in the tournament’s history.  Although the on-air portion of the contracts with CBS and
NBC remain similar, the new contracts will allow the Golf
Channel to provide live coverage of all tournaments at the same
time events are being shown on NBC and CBS, beginning in 2013.  Simulcast Internet coverage of tournaments will also be
shown on websites for the  PGA Tour ,  CBS Sports ,  NBC Sports  and
the  Golf Channel .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  