-- 
Polish Zloty Slips From Two-Week High on Europe Growth Concern

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-09-01T16:04:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/polish-zloty-retreats-from-strongest-in-two-weeks-against-euro.html
Poland ’s zloty retreated from a two-
week high after manufacturing reports fueled concern the
economic recovery is stalling.  The zloty weakened 0.6 percent to 4.1531 per euro at 5:32
p.m. in Warsaw after reaching the strongest intraday level since
Aug. 17 yesterday.  A manufacturing gauge for the 17-nation euro region
declined to 49 in August, the lowest in two years, London-based
Markit Economics said today. Poland’s purchasing managers’ index
fell to 51.8 in August from 52.9 the previous month, according
to Markit’s website. Readings less than 50 indicate contraction.  “We had a bout of weaker PMI headlines in the eurozone
that made the market concern about growth,” Baron Chan, foreign
currency strategist at Credit Suisse AG, said by phone from
 London . “There is a negative spillover into central and eastern
 Europe  and the zloty is used as a vehicle to trade on risk-on,
risk-off sentiment.”  Risks to economic growth in Poland, the European Union’s
only country to avoid recession in 2009, have increased as the
global economy slows, Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki 
said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. Poland sent 55 percent
of its exports to the euro area in the first half of this year,
according to the statistics office.  The zloty plunged 3.2 percent in August for the biggest
monthly retreat since May 2010, when the currency lost 3.7
percent. It was the fifth-steepest drop against the euro among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after  Mexico ’s peso, Russia’s ruble, India’s rupee and the South
African rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net 
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  