-- 
Port of Long Beach’s Traffic Declines in ‘Unsettled’ Time

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 
2011-09-02T06:51:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/port-of-long-beach-sees-another-down-month-in-time-of-consumer-skepticism.html
Economic forecasters predicting a
Christmas sales bump in the U.S. may be disappointed, according
to early traffic reports from the nation’s second-busiest port.  Inbound container cargo at  California ’s Port of  Long Beach 
probably fell again in August after a 1.2 percent drop in July,
said Richard Steinke, executive director of the facility.  Retailers are holding back on orders because “there’s
still consumer skepticism,” Steinke said yesterday in an
interview at Bloomberg News’s Los Angeles office. “Unsettled is
probably a good word to describe what’s going on now.”  A slowdown in shipping demand this year forced container
lines including A.P. Moeller Maersk A/S, the world’s largest, to
delay the introduction of peak-season surcharges on Asia-U.S.
routes as they struggled to find enough cargo to fill expanding
fleets. The busiest shipping season typically starts in late
July or early August and can continue through October.  “This year, July was not good,” Steinke said.  “August
numbers are not looking good.”  Long Beach and the adjacent Port of  Los Angeles  are the two
largest container ports in the U.S., accounting for 40 percent 
of the nation’s shipments, according to Art Wong, a spokesman 
for the Long Beach port. August figures will be reported around
mid-month, he said.  L.A. Decline  In Los Angeles, inbound shipments for July were down 3.17
percent to 357,667 containers. August results will be issued in
the next couple of weeks, said Rachel Campbell, a spokeswoman
for the port.  The ports’ cargo, half of which comes from  China , includes
clothing, furniture and toys. “It’s the shopping mall coming in
on those ships,” Wong said.  Retailers and manufacturers have cut back on orders after
being spooked by the down-to-the-wire federal debt-limit debate
last month, according to John Husing, an economist specializing
in  Southern California .  “What you are seeing are the decisions being made by the
supply chain managers and the folks who control inventory,”
Husing said in a telephone interview. “What you’re hearing is
an abundance of caution.”  Hong Kong-based Orient Overseas (International) Ltd., which
operates container vessels and a terminal at Long Beach’s port,
anticipates a pick-up as shops leave it late to bring in
supplies for the holiday season.  “We expect a year-end rush on cargo,” Stanley Shen, a
spokesman, said by phone. The company’s volumes to the U.S. west
coast were “flat” in August, with the line using about 85
percent of its capacity, he said.  Increased Bookings  Evergreen Marine Corp., part of  Asia ’s second-biggest
container line, said that a pick-up in demand has enabled
operators to levy surcharges. There are also increased forward-
bookings industrywide as customers prepare for the holiday
season, the Taipei-based company said by e-mail.  Hanjin Shipping Co., which has a Long Beach terminal, said
that trans-Pacific volumes rose in August from July.  “Demand for the year-end holiday seasons appear to be
holding up,” the Seoul-based shipping line said by e-mail.  The  National Retail Federation  anticipates a 10 percent
jump in inbound container volumes at major U.S. retail ports in
September and an 8 percent rise in October. The Washington-based
group forecast a 1.6 percent decline for August after demand
surged a year earlier on concerns about possible shipping-
capacity shortages, according to an Aug. 9  statement .  Long Beach handled 311,240 inbound containers in August
2010, which was the highest tally since October 2007, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Overall cargo-box traffic  jumped 
24 percent last year to more than 6.2 million units, while Los
Angeles gained 16 percent to 7.8 million.  Long Beach shipments rose 4.7 percent this year through
July. Even if that pace continued for the year the port won’t
top its 2007 peak of more than 7.3 million containers.  “Obviously the economy is still sputtering,” Steinke
said. “And we’re a pretty good barometer of that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  