-- 
Rapture Descends on Frenzied Acolytes After 4-Year Wait: Review

-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/rapture-descends-on-frenzied-acolytes-after-4-year-wait-review.html
The Rapture descended upon the  Music
Hall of Williamsburg  on Aug. 20th. Not the body-snatching
version, but a rocking New York-based band’s first local show in
almost four years.  The P.A. music segued right into the live stuff, starting
with a repetitive synth note over a slick bass line. A guitar
riff, a steady drum beat and Luke Jenner’s slightly trembling
high-pitched voice joined in for “In the Grace of Your Love,”
the title track to the new album coming out Sept. 6 ( DFA
Records ), the band’s first in five years.  The crowd quickly switched from “They’re back” mode to
letting the cardio workout take over. Bodies shook with “Pieces
of the People We Love,” from the 2006 album of the same name.  The new tune “Never Die Again” brought out a heavy disco
flare. Jenner finger-tapped his red-and-white Fender Telecaster
while Gabriel Andruzzi brought out the cowbell and saxophone.
The sweat began to flow.  The party vibe grew with “Get Myself Into It.” Vito
Roccoforte slammed the drums as Andruzzi kept one hand on the
keys and one on the saxophone. It was at this moment that the
floor began to have that trampoline feel.  The harder dance-rock vibe found on their older material
arrived with “Killing” from 2003’s “Echoes.” It was rougher
around the edges than previous material and had heads moving
back and forth.  The band continued to blend rock riffs with dance beats in
the song that put them on the map in 2003, “House of Jealous
Lovers.” The crowd caught fire, limbs were flying and bodies
colliding as the bass rattled and Andruzzi with cowbell jittered
around the stage.  Brief Breather  The guys dug deeper into their catalog for “Olio” from
the 1999 debut, “Mirrors.” It served as brief breather for all
of us gasping for air.  Before the set wrapped up, Jenner let us know that a lot
has happened over the past few years. He has become a dad and is
about to celebrate his 10th wedding anniversary. There is life
outside music.  The set closed with the new single, and one of the year’s
best, “How Deep Is Your Love?” Having circulated on the Web
for a few weeks, it felt like an oldie to this devoted crowd.
The chorus was sung word-for-word by the assembled acolytes.  The Rapture will support the new album with a tour through
November, crossing the U.S. and spending time in  Europe . The
tour stops again in New York on Sept. 23rd at Webster Hall.
Bring your dancing shoes.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in September.
Please note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows
marked (SO) are sold out, although online services such as
Craigslist often have tickets:  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in  New York  at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 