-- 
Raytheon SM-3 Missile Fails to Hit Target in Pacific Test

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T20:17:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/raytheon-sm-3-missile-fails-to-hit-target-in-pacific-test-1-.html
A  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  advanced SM-3
interceptor missile failed to hit its target over the Pacific
Ocean today in its first flight test, the Pentagon’s Missile
Defense Agency said.  The Standard Missile-3 Block IB, part of the  Aegis
Ballistic Missile Defense  system, was launched from the Navy
cruiser USS Lake Erie early this morning, 90 seconds after a
short-range ballistic missile target was launched from a range
on Kauai,  Hawaii .  “An intercept of the target was not achieved,” the
Missile Defense Agency said in a written statement.  Today’s launch marked the first test flight for the
advanced SM-3 Block IB. Defense officials will conduct an
“extensive investigation” to determine the cause of the
failure, the agency said.  There have been 22 successful intercepts in 27 at-sea
attempts since the Aegis Ballistic Missile Defense flight
testing began in 2002, the agency said.  Missile Defense Agency  spokesman Rick Lehner said it was
too soon to say whether the test failure would delay the SM-3
program.  The Pentagon plans to buy more than 300 of the SM-3 Block
IB missiles over the next five years, at a cost of $12 million
to $15 million per missile, Lehner said.  Longer Range  John Patterson , a spokesman for Raytheon Missile Systems,
declined to comment, referring questions to the  Missile Defense
Agency .  The Block IB batch of SM-3 missiles, still in development,
will be an advanced version of the current Block IA production
round, according to Raytheon’s website. The company said the new
version “incorporates an upgraded seeker and signal processor,
enabling longer range acquisition and increased threat
discrimination.”  The Block IB missiles are scheduled to reach “initial
operational capability” in fiscal year 2013 and be available
for operations by 2015, Lehner said.  There are also plans to develop two more advanced versions
of the SM-3, called the Block IIA and the Block IIB. The first
Block IIA is scheduled for deployment in Europe by 2018 as both
a sea-based and a land-based interceptor system, Lehner said.
The Block IIB is scheduled for ground basing in  Europe  by 2020,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  