-- 
RBS, Lloyds Lead Banks Higher on Report of Regulatory Delay

-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 
2011-09-01T10:52:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/rbs-lloyds-lead-u-k-banks-higher-on-report-of-regulatory-delay.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  led U.K. banks higher as investors bet
the government will wait to apply new regulation.  RBS rose as much as 8.8 percent to 26.4 pence and traded at
25.82 pence at 11.39 a.m. in London. Lloyds traded up 4.8
percent at 35.19 pence and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  gained 4.9 percent to
179.1 pence.  Business Secretary Vince Cable “whose been one of the more
vocal critics of banks and has been making some of the more
aggressive recommendations towards the Independent Commission on
Banking’s potential course of action, has clearly started to
moderate his message and this starts to remove some of the
regulatory pressure that has been a major reason for U.K. bank
underperformance more recently,” said Alex Potter, an analyst
at Berenberg Bank in  London .  The Financial Times today reported that British banks will
escape restructuring until after the planned 2015 general
election, citing unidentified government officials. Cable
accepted that it may not be possible to implement reforms before
the next election, the FT reported.  The government-appointed ICB recommended in April that the
U.K.’s biggest banks should boost capital, introduce plans for
an orderly bankruptcy and erect firebreaks around consumer units
to boost financial stability. If accepted, the plans, to be
unveiled on Sept. 12, should be implemented over a lengthy
period, banks including Lloyds, Barclays and RBS said in July.  Lower Costs  Barclays is “trading at close to half book value” as
investors anticipated the new rules would lead to higher costs
in the short term, according to UBS AG analysts led by John-Paul Crutchley, who today upgraded their recommendation to “buy”
from “neutral.”  “The ability to have more time to get the balance sheet
into the right place is likely to lead to lower restructuring
costs to get there,” said the analysts in the note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  