-- 
Treasuries Hold Losses as Worldwide Stock Gains Reduce Demand for Safety

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-09-01T07:12:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/treasuries-retain-losses-as-gains-in-asian-equities-sap-safety-demand.html
Treasuries held yesterday’s losses
as Asian stocks extended a rally in stocks around the world,
curtailing demand for the relative safety of government debt.  U.S. government returned 2.8 percent in August, the biggest
monthly gain since December 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show, while the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of stocks lost 7 percent.
The current rate of inflation, 3.6 percent as measured by the
 consumer price index , means 10-year notes yield negative 1.38
percent after accounting for costs in the economy.  “Investors will shift money from bonds into stocks given
stocks are cheap and Treasuries are expensive,” said Hiroki Shimazu, an economist in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a
unit of  Japan ’s third-largest publicly traded bank by assets.
“Yields may gradually rise toward 2.7 percent by year-end.”  Benchmark 10-year yields were little changed at 2.22
percent as of 8:09 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2.125 percent note due in August 2021 traded
at 99 1/8. Yields fell 57 basis points last month, the most
since a 71 basis-point slide in December 2008. They dropped to a
record 1.97 percent on Aug. 18.  Ten-year rates will increase to 2.69 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of economists and analysts
with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest weighting.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares rose for a sixth day,
gaining 0.7 percent, after MSCI’s World Index climbed 1.4
percent yesterday.  Inflation Expectations  The rally in Treasuries in August, the biggest advance
since the depths of the financial crisis, came as bond investors
lowered expectations for inflation.  The so-called break-even rate, the difference in yield
between 10-year Treasuries and similar-maturity inflation-
indexed U.S. government bonds was 2.02 percent today, after
narrowing to 1.96 percent on Aug. 18, the lowest since October.
It has averaged 2.06 percentage points over the past five years.  “Almost everyone is unhappy with the current yield
level,” said Sungjin Park, who heads the $58.1 billion debt
division in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co.,  South Korea ’s
largest private bond investor. “Treasuries are expensive.”  Demand for Treasuries was supported before reports this
week forecast to show U.S. manufacturing contracted for the
first time in two years and job growth slowed in August.  The  Institute for Supply Management  will say today its
factory index fell to 48.5 in August from 50.9 the previous
month, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. A reading
below 50 signals contraction. U.S. employers added 70,000
workers last month, after hiring 117,000 in July, a separate
survey showed before tomorrow’s Labor Department report.  ‘Below Expectations’  “There is room for Treasury yields to decrease,” said
Takuya Yamamoto, who helps oversee the equivalent of $129.3
billion as a portfolio manager in  Tokyo  at Diam Co., a unit of
Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Co., Japan’s second-biggest life
insurer. “Some of the economic figures have been below
expectations.”  Yamamoto said he bought Treasuries last week, favoring 10-
and 30-year securities.  The Fed should be ready to consider more monetary easing
even while it can’t be expected to eliminate some of the forces
impeding economic growth, Fed Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday.  “Given the weak data we’ve seen recently and considering
the rising concern about chronic slow growth or worse, I don’t
think any policy option can be ruled out at the moment,” he
said in a speech in Lafayette,  Louisiana .  Instead of conducting another large-scale round of
quantitative easing, the Fed may sell shorter-term securities
held in its portfolio and buy longer-dated bonds, SMBC Nikko’s
Shimazu said.  “That may push down yields of long-term bonds and flatten
the yield curve for a short period,” Shimazu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  