-- 
Red Sox Beat Yankees 9-5 in Second Game of Series to Keep Lead in AL East

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/red-sox-beat-yankees-9-5-in-second-game-of-series-to-keep-lead-in-al-east.html
Jacoby Ellsbury hit a two-run homer
to snap a tie and Jason Varitek added another to complete the
scoring as the  Boston Red Sox  beat the  New York  Yankees 9-5.  The victory at Fenway Park in Boston last night extended
the Red Sox’s advantage over the Yankees to 1 1/2 games in Major
League Baseball’s American League East division. The three-game
series, which began with a 5-2 win for the Yankees, ends
tonight.  “Our guys played well and we have a chance to win the
series,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi told reporters. “That’s
what we’re going to try to do.”  Eduardo Nunez scored on Derek Jeter’s single in the third
inning to give the Yankees a 1-0 lead.  In the bottom of the third, Dustin Pedroia scored Marco Scutaro on a groundout and Jed Lowrie knocked in Ellsbury with a
single to make it 2-1 for Boston.  David Ortiz  extended the home
team’s advantage with a two-run home run in the fifth.  The Yankees rallied to lead 5-4 in the sixth. Robinson Cano
and  Eric Chavez  had run-scoring doubles and Nick Swisher scored
on an error by Josh Reddick before Nunez’s sacrifice fly sent
Chavez home to give New York the lead.  Varitek’s run-scoring double tied it in the bottom of the
sixth before Ellsbury hit the go-ahead home run. Varitek added
his two-run homer in the eighth to seal the victory.  Josh Beckett  improved to 12-5, allowing five runs on six
hits while striking out eight in seven innings of work. Phil Hughes took the loss to drop to 4-5, giving up eight hits and
six runs in 5 2/3 innings.  “A couple mistakes basically cost it for us,” Hughes told
reporters in the Yankees’ locker room. “My stuff was good
early, but I made a couple mistakes and they capitalized. That’s
the way it goes and we have to come back and get the third
game.”  A.J. Burnett is scheduled to start tonight for the Yankees,
who fell to 81-53 with the defeat, with  Jon Lester  pitching for
 Boston , which improved to 83-52.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  