-- 
Tree Falls on Sino-Forest, Auditor Can’t Hear It: Jonathan Weil

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 
2011-09-01T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/tree-falls-on-sino-forest-e-y-can-t-hear-it-commentary-jonathan-weil.html
The credit rater Standard & Poor’s
may have been late to throw  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  into the wood
chipper when it withdrew its opinion on the company’s debt this
week. At least it wasn’t last.  The end seems near for Sino-Forest. The Chinese-Canadian
timber company’s bonds are priced for a default. Securities
regulators in  Canada  have accused the company of fraud and
suspended trading in its stock. One question lingers: Which of
the company’s paid opinion merchants will be the last to step
aside? Will it be a credit rater? Or will it be the company’s
auditor,  Ernst & Young LLP  in Toronto, which has yet to rescind
any of its reports on Sino-Forest’s finances?  So far Ernst looks like the favorite, with only one rating
company left in the hunt. Think of it as a contest between giant
tortoises to see which one is slower. This time-honored
ritual -- of market gatekeepers waiting to blow the whistle until
long after a scam has been exposed -- has become so familiar, we
might as well revel in the spectacle.  Fitch Ratings  withdrew its junk rating on Sino-Forest on
July 14, six weeks after the short-selling research firm Muddy
Waters LLC released a lengthy report accusing the company of
fraudulently overstating its timber holdings in  China . S&P
pulled its rating this week after downgrading the company to
CCC-, three levels above default, citing “heightened
information risks.” That’s a euphemism for “we have no idea
what’s going on here.”  Left Behind  This leaves just Moody’s Investors Service and Ernst, both
of which, like S&P and Fitch, are paid by the same companies on
which they render opinions. Moody’s this week downgraded the
company three steps to Caa1, its fifth-lowest mark. That’s well
into junk territory. So at least Moody’s is on record saying
that Sino-Forest is a very high credit risk.  Ernst is still clinging to its position that Sino-Forest’s
books are clean, under the accounting profession’s usual pass-
fail standard. Beyond that, the firm refuses to speak publicly
about its audit work for the company, whose board includes two
former Ernst partners.  There’s every reason to believe  Muddy Waters ’ call was
spectacularly correct. Once again a Big Four accounting firm
seems to have been caught with its pants down, having told the
investing public for years that a multibillion-dollar
enterprise’s numbers could be trusted, only to see its
imprimatur discarded by the markets and its conclusions upended
by government investigators. Even the lowly credit raters,
notorious for being slow to pull the trigger on dying companies,
have been quicker on the draw this go-around.  ‘Perpetuate a Fraud’  Canada’s main securities regulator, the  Ontario Securities
Commission , suspended trading last week in Sino-Forest’s shares.
The commission  said  Sino-Forest, as well as certain officers and
directors, seem to have misrepresented the company’s revenue,
exaggerated its timber holdings and engaged in acts “they know
or reasonably ought to know perpetuate a fraud.”  As if that shouldn’t have been enough to shake Ernst’s
confidence, Sino-Forest said this week that its chairman and
chief executive officer,  Allen Chan , had resigned, pending
completion of an internal review of Muddy Waters’ allegations.
The company placed three other employees on leave “after
certain information was uncovered during the course of” the
review, without saying what that information was. In its Aug. 28
 news release , Sino-Forest said “the allegations made in the
OSC’s temporary order, while unproven, are of a serious
nature.”  Keeping Secrets  Ernst’s only public response has been to say nothing of
substance. “We are aware of the OSC’s temporary order and the
company’s press release, and are evaluating these
developments,” an Ernst spokeswoman, Amanda Olliver, said in an
e-mail. “Our professional obligations prevent us from speaking
more specifically about client matters.”  Surely the company’s officers and directors must be
grateful to Ernst for keeping their secrets from the public’s
prying eyes. Meanwhile the only thing investors have to go by
from Ernst is the  form letter  it signed March 14 attesting to
the company’s year-end financial statements. Whatever evidence
Ernst had to support its view that Sino-Forest’s books were
kosher, it’s hard to imagine the firm’s partners could be so
sure now.  Ernst does have options, aside from bracing for the
inevitable years of litigation and investigations. It could
resign, explain why it is doing so and face criticism for acting
too late. It could withdraw its previous audit opinions. It
could insist to Sino-Forest’s directors that it be permitted to
answer questions from the public about the work it has
performed, as a condition of remaining onboard. Or it could hang
on in silence, as it’s doing now, and watch its reputation
endure more damage.  That it’s choosing the last of these approaches -- and
eating even the credit raters’ dust in the process -- reinforces
the perception that Ernst fell down on the job and may have
something to hide. No client could be worth this, no matter how
much it’s paying in fees. A plug-pulling is long overdue.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 