-- 
Republican Investment Tax Cutters Top Bush

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:23:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/republican-investment-tax-cutters-top-bush-while-defying-buffett.html
At least five Republican
presidential candidates support eliminating taxes on  capital
gains , proposing even deeper cuts than former President  George W. Bush  endorsed and standing in contrast to advocates of higher
investment tax rates such as  Warren Buffett .  Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman  became the latest
candidate to back a zero tax rate on income from investments in
a speech yesterday, pitching the idea as part of a job-creation
plan that includes what he described as a revenue-neutral
overhaul of the tax system.  “We will also eliminate taxes on capital gains and
dividends, which will lower the cost of capital and encourage
investment in the economy,” Huntsman said in a campaign speech
in Hudson,  New Hampshire , according to his prepared remarks.  According to published reports or their websites, Minnesota
Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, Texas Congressman  Ron Paul ,
former pizza executive Herman Cain and former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  have said they back getting rid of the capital gains
tax, which now has a top rate of 15 percent for most assets held
for more than a year. That position puts them at odds with
bipartisan deficit-reduction efforts over the past year that
have called for lowering tax rates on ordinary income and taxing
capital gains and wage income at the same rates.  Buffett Supports Increase  The Republican candidates’ positions also contrast with the
stance taken by Buffett, the billionaire investor, and President
 Barack Obama , who are seeking an increase in capital gains rates
for high-income Americans and maintain that the lower rates give
the wealthy an undeserved tax break.  In an  op-ed  in the New York Times on Aug. 14, Buffett,
chief executive officer of  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., wrote that
his 17.4 percent  tax rate  was lower than that paid by others
working in his office because almost all of his income comes
from capital gains.  “If you make money with money, as some of my super-rich
friends do, your percentage may be a bit lower than mine,” he
wrote. “But if you earn money from a job, your percentage will
surely exceed mine -- most likely by a lot.”  Lawmakers have been arguing over the proper tax treatment
of capital gains for decades.  The last overhaul of the U.S. tax code, in 1986, equalized
the top capital gains and ordinary income tax rates at 28
percent.  ’Failed Miserably’  “It fell apart quickly and failed miserably,” said
 Douglas Holtz-Eakin , former director of the  Congressional Budget
Office  and now president of the American Action Forum, a
Washington group that favors smaller government, said in an
interview today.  Later increases in ordinary income tax rates and cuts in
the capital gains rate created today’s disparity between the 35
percent top tax rate on wages and the 15 percent rate on
investment income.  Obama wants to let the top tax rate on ordinary income
return to 39.6 percent, starting in 2013. He also proposes
setting the top capital gains rate at 23.8 percent that year.  Advocates of lower investment taxes said the type of
changes being advanced by the presidential candidates would
encourage riskier investments.  ’Reasonably Low’  “At 15 percent, the rate is reasonably low,” said J.D. Foster, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation , a Washington
research group that favors limited government. “But if you can
bring it down even further, you’re going to get some economic
benefit from that, unlike most of the economic proposals that
are floating around.”  Foster, who was an economist at the Treasury Department and
the Office of Management and Budget under Bush, said that
administration focused on lowering dividend taxes, which had
been taxed as ordinary income until a 2003 tax law set the top
rate at 15 percent. That same law reduced the top capital gains
rate from 20 percent to 15 percent.  Holtz-Eakin, who advised 2008 Republican presidential
candidate  John McCain , said he opposes eliminating the tax on
capital gains income unless doing so is part of a broader
overhaul of the  tax code , preferably one that taxes consumption
and not savings.  “To pretend you have an income tax and not tax all income
is how you end up with what we’ve got,” he said.  ‘Enormous Bounty’  Eliminating taxes on capital gains would encourage people
to look for ways to qualify for the exemption, said Leonard Burman, a professor of public affairs at Syracuse University.  “It would turn what’s already a pretty big loophole in the
tax law into one big enough to drive a truck through,” said
Burman, a former Treasury Department official who has written
about capital gains taxation. “You create this enormous bounty
for making other income look like capital gains, and virtually
any income tax shelter is designed to do just that.”  Eliminating capital gains taxes would benefit private
equity and venture capital businesses. Managers in those
industries tend to receive much of their compensation as carried
interest, a share of investors’ profits that is taxed as capital
gains.  Burman said investors would likely sell their holdings and
replace them with new, similar assets to eliminate any untaxed
gain, particularly if they were concerned that a zero tax rate
would be temporary.  Biggest Beneficiaries  The benefits of lower rates on capital gains flow to people
with the highest incomes. The top 20 percent of taxpayers
receive  96 percent  of the benefit from the current preferential
rates on capital gains and dividends, according to the  Tax
Policy Center , a Washington research group.  Exempting capital gains  from income would cut taxes for 4.3
percent of taxpayers and raise taxes for 6.8 percent, according
to the Tax Policy Center.  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at
the center, said the counterintuitive result stems from
eliminating the deduction of capital losses.  Among households with annual earnings of more than $1
million, 53 percent would end up with tax cuts averaging
$181,231. In that same income group, 38 percent of taxpayers
would experience tax increases averaging $2,589.  Eliminating taxes on capital gains would widen the federal
 budget deficit . The current preferential tax rates on capital
gains and dividends will result in $84.2 billion in forgone
revenue for the Treasury this year, according to the
congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Ordinary Income  Obama’s fiscal commission, headed by former Republican
Senator  Alan Simpson  and former White House Chief of Staff
Erskine Bowles, proposed taxing capital gains as ordinary
income. That report, which was backed by Republicans including
Senator Tom Coburn of  Oklahoma , proposed lowering tax rates and
eliminating tax breaks, resulting in a net increase in revenue
compared with extending current tax policies indefinitely.  A proposal released earlier this year by the bipartisan
“Gang of Six” in the Senate adopted a similar approach,
without explicitly saying it would raise capital gains rates.  The presidential candidates, meanwhile, focus their
deficit-cutting efforts solely on spending. Tax cuts, they
maintain, boost economic growth.  “We ought to go to zero capital gains, which would attract
hundreds of billions of dollars of investment in the U.S.,”
Gingrich said on Fox News Channel on Aug. 4.  Mark Miner, a spokesman for Texas Governor Rick Perry, and
Eric Fehrnstrom, a spokesman for former Massachusetts Governor
Mitt Romney, didn’t respond to e-mailed requests for comment
yesterday. Perry entered the race last month, and Romney is
slated to announce his job-creation plan next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  