-- 
Christmas Cheer Forecast by Wal-Mart Supplier Li & Fung Spurs Stock Rally

-- B y   R o b y n   M e r e d i t h   a n d   F r a n k   L o n g i d
-- 
2011-09-01T08:19:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/retailers-christmas-sales-to-match-2010-billionaire-fung-says.html
Christmas sales may match last
year’s as retailers withstand “uneven” growth in the U.S. and
Europe, said billionaire  Victor Fung , chairman of the world’s
biggest supplier of consumer goods.  “Perhaps the recovery rate is a little slower than what
one had hoped for,” the chairman of the  Li & Fung Group , whose
listed unit supplies  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M) , said
in a Bloomberg interview. “The key thing is it is
recovering.”  Li & Fung Ltd., which gets most of its sales in the U.S.,
rose 5.7 percent in Hong Kong trading today and was the biggest
gainer on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . U.S. stocks gained
yesterday as the government reported growth in factory orders
that exceeded projections, while a private report showed
American business activity topped forecasts.  “We still see overall retailing to be actually still
recovering,” Fung, whose business group includes convenience
stores, a toy retailer and a luxury clothing chain, said in the
interview on Aug. 30. “Volumes in money terms will be quite
steady.”  Comparable Sales Growth  Retailers on average will probably see same-store or
comparable sales growth this year, said the billionaire. They
are “accepting price increases and at the same time passing on
some of that, very carefully, to customers,” Fung said.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , which also supplies  Inditex SA (ITX) ’s Zara and
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) , traded at HK$14.84 as of the 4 p.m.
close of trading in Hong Kong, the highest level in almost two
months. The stock has gained 24 percent since Aug. 11, when it
posted first-half profit that beat all analysts’ estimates.  “We’re more positive on Li & Fung to the extent they can
still drive growth, particularly at Wal-Mart,” which entered a
supply agreement with the outsourcer last year, Aaron Fischer,
head of consumer research at CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in
by phone today.  “We still take a fairly cautious view of the retail
environment in the U.S. and  Europe ,” said Fischer, who
recommends buying Li & Fung’s stock. “If Li & Fung can increase
penetration at Wal-Mart, this would offset any potential
weakness in the general retail environment or with other
customers.”  12,000 Factories  The Hong Kong-listed company supplies clients with 240
offices in 40 countries coordinating a network of 12,000
factories -- none of which it owns. About half of Li & Fung’s
sourcing is still done in  China  while production in countries
like Bangladesh, Indonesia and Turkey grows.  Toymakers at the China Import and Export Fair held earlier
this year charged more to fill orders for Christmas, citing
higher labor and materials costs as well as the yuan’s
appreciation against the dollar. The event, which happens twice
a year, is also referred to as the Canton trade fair.  Further price increases will be tempered as declining
commodities costs offset rising wages, Fung said.  Cotton futures have plunged 27 percent this year, making
it cheaper for the factories contracted by companies like
Fung’s to make clothes. Cotton for December delivery fell 0.2
percent to $1.0557 a pound on ICE Futures U.S.in New York as of
3:30 p.m. Hong Kong time.  Japan ’s Recovery  Crude oil, the source for chemicals used in toymaking, has
declined 2.9 percent this year on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  after gaining 15 percent last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Li & Fung Group includes retailers such as  Trinity Ltd. (891) , a
retailer of luxury clothing and shoes in China,  South Korea  and
 Southeast Asia . Trinity fell 0.4 percent to HK$8.07 and has
slipped 1.5 percent this year, compared with a 10.6 percent
drop in the Hang Seng Index.  Global demand may also be supported by Japan’s recovery,
Fung said. “I still feel that the Japanese economy will be a
growth driver for the world.”  Fung last month founded the Fung Global Institute, a think
tank with Nobel laureate Michael Spence overseeing its research
agenda.  He and his brother William Fung rank fifth on Forbes’ Hong
Kong rich list, with an estimated combined wealth of $8.6
billion.  Among their  group’s companies  are Convenience Retail Asia
Ltd., which operates 500 Circle K and Saint Honore stores in
 Hong Kong , Macau and southern China. Li & Fung Group’s Toys
(Labuan) Holding Ltd. operates Toys “R” Us in the greater
China region and Southeast Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robyn Meredith in Hong Kong at 
 rmeredith8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  