-- 
Rogers Shuns Goldman Glare to Gain Power While Outlasting Corzine, Paulson

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D .   C o h a n
-- 
2011-09-01T23:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/rogers-shuns-goldman-glare-to-gain-power-while-outlasting-corzine-paulson.html
John F. W. Rogers is known on Wall
Street for four initials and an enviable fact of corporate
geography. The F. and W. stand for Francis and William, though
why Rogers uses them both is one of several mysteries he has
either gone out of his way to cultivate or never seen fit to
explain.  “Why does he have that extra initial that everybody else
doesn’t have?” asks Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chairman and chief
executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   If Blankfein truly wanted to find out, he could walk three
feet and ask. Rogers’s office in Goldman Sachs’s lush,
$2.4 billion downtown Manhattan headquarters is right next to
Blankfein’s and a few steps away from that of Goldman Sachs
President Gary D. Cohn, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Sept. 5 edition. Prior to Blankfein and Cohn’s arrival at the
top of the Goldman Sachs food chain, Rogers sat next to Hank Paulson, the previous CEO (1999-2006) whose appointment as U.S.
Treasury Secretary Rogers helped grease. Prior to Paulson,
Rogers sat next to Goldman Sachs CEO Jon Corzine (1994-99).  “He is an extraordinarily loyal person,” says former
Goldman Sachs colleague Jud Sommer, who is now the senior
adviser to government affairs at UnitedHealth Group Inc. “But
that is a pretty extraordinary segue for any human being in any
setting, anywhere, at a professional level.”  Beyond Rogers’s ability to adapt, the inference is that
Goldman Sachs is not made up of ordinary human beings in an
ordinary setting or profession. It’s made up of incredibly
competitive people in one of the world’s most cutthroat
businesses.  Not a Dealmaker  The average partner serves just eight years. Unlike
Blankfein, Cohn, Paulson, Corzine, and dozens more at Goldman
Sachs whom he has served and outlasted, Rogers is not a
dealmaker or trader. He has no revenue-generating
responsibilities and strives to have virtually no public
profile.  Yet many of those who follow Goldman Sachs’s Kremlinology
describe Rogers, 55, as the single most powerful person at the
firm over the past decade. One Goldman Sachs partner, who asked
not to be named because he fears damaging his relationship with
Rogers, describes him as Colossus bestriding the globe.  In April 2011, Blankfein promoted Rogers to be one of 11
“executive officers” at Goldman Sachs, a title without much
substance other than that it forced Rogers for the first time to
share in the pain of public disclosure. (He has Goldman Sachs
stock worth around $30 million and options worth several
millions more.)  Public Relations  The press-shy Rogers’s work portfolio includes
responsibility for press and public relations and the firm’s
government affairs office in  Washington . He also oversees
Goldman Sachs’s considerable philanthropic efforts, which the
firm has not been shy about using to try to counter the barrage
of criticism levied against it in the wake of the financial
crisis.  “He’s a major fixing agent" in a "chemical sense,” explains
Lucas van Praag, a former British naval officer and current 
Goldman Sachs partner who heads press relations and reports to 
Rogers. “He makes sure that the DNA Goldman knows and loves 
stays in place.”  When he’s not globe-trotting with Blankfein, Rogers
commutes every week between Washington, where he owns an
$8.4 million home on Embassy Row, and  New York , where he stays
in a suite at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel on Central Park South. His
wife, Deborah Lehr, a former senior negotiator on  China  trade
policy in the Clinton Administration, lives in Washington with
the couple’s two young children.  George Smiley  Rogers is of average height, doughy, and a year or two away
from needing a full comb-over of his flaxen hair. He can be
charming and witty, but seldom conspicuously so. His passing
resemblance to the late Sir Alec Guinness in the actor’s
portrayal of John le Carre’s ueber-spy, George Smiley, is widely
remarked upon within Goldman Sachs.  Others find a more modern, less sinister analog: Michael
Clayton, the George Clooney character who called himself a
corporate “janitor.” (Full disclosure: Without Rogers’s
approval in 2010, it is unlikely I would have been permitted
access to Goldman Sachs’s current and former senior executives
for my book about the firm.) Rogers is unfailingly described by
friends and foes as a master tactician with a long record of
behind-the-scenes accomplishments, yet his indispensability
stems in large part from how little he cares about being
recognized for those accomplishments.  Reagan’s Plaque  In this regard, Rogers appears to have internalized an
aphorism that his hero and former boss, Ronald Reagan, had on a
small plaque in the Oval Office: “There is no limit to what a
man can do or where he can go if he does not mind who gets the
credit.”  Rogers serves on the board of the Ronald Reagan Centennial
Commission and is treasurer of the Ronald Reagan Presidential
Foundation and Library. He also helped organize Reagan’s state
funeral and gave $250,000 to help underwrite the cost of the
Reagan statue that stands in the rotunda of the U.S. Capitol.  Within Goldman Sachs, though, he rarely discusses politics,
his personal life, or what he did before arriving at the firm in
1994. A Goldman Sachs partner, who asked not to be named because
he was not authorized to speak about Rogers’s motivations, says
invisibility is part of a master plan in which Rogers hopes to
achieve absolute deniability.  Separate CEO, Chairman  This deniability is not always used for benign purposes.
After Paulson announced his departure from Goldman Sachs in June
2006, Rogers, according to a former senior executive close to
him, led a brief push to prevent Blankfein, Paulson’s chosen
successor, from filling Paulson’s roles as both CEO and chairman
of the board.  A Bloomberg News report at the time noted that “some board
members” considered “naming a separate chairman” such as
Stephen Friedman, the former senior partner at Goldman Sachs who
had been an merger-and-acquisitions guy, to complement
Blankfein’s sales and trading background. The same former
executive says Rogers is so good that Blankfein didn’t even know
that Rogers was behind it. Blankfein concedes as much.  “It wouldn’t have occurred to me that John would’ve
initiated that,” he says. “But I’m not in a position to deny
it. I just don’t know.”  Van Praag , the Goldman Sachs spokesman, says Rogers was not
the person who suggested splitting the roles and that “John
flatly denies having suggested the idea to anyone.”  Given his preference for invisibility, it’s no surprise
that Rogers declined multiple requests to be interviewed for
this story.  Career Killer  Many of the dozen or so friends and colleagues who did
agree to be interviewed pointed out that Rogers’s absence from a
profile about himself is typical. Several noted that their
inability to speak on the record for fear of reprisal is a
perfect example of how Rogers doesn’t need recognition to be
powerful. One former Goldman Sachs colleague, after conceding
that he’s afraid of Rogers, added that Rogers has an old-school
sense of omerta. If wronged, his vengeance can kill careers.  When David Gergen arrived at the White House in 1975 as
director of communications to President Gerald R. Ford, he found
his Old Executive Office Building office empty. A bureaucrat
told him he could speak with the General Services Administration
and wait two months to get a chair or he could call John Rogers.  Influential Intern  Rogers was then an 18-year-old student at George Washington
University with an internship in the White House’s speechwriting
and research office. Gergen called Rogers, and the next day he
had a desk, a couch, a TV and some artwork. Gergen was so
impressed that he asked Rogers to be his research assistant
while Rogers remained in college. “He became a legend within
the White House,” says Gergen, who claims credit for
discovering “the phenomenon of John Rogers.”  It’s now almost impossible to imagine Rogers outside of
 Wall Street  or the Beltway, but he was not born to power. He was
raised in Seneca Falls, New York, near the Finger Lakes, where
his father owned a wholesale frozen foods business and his
mother was a dental hygienist. Throughout high school, Rogers
worked in the family business as a salesman. But his passion was
politics, as it’s played inside the Beltway. Thanks in part to a
scholarship from his high school, Rogers attended George
Washington. After meeting Gergen, his career path was set.  Gergen, then exclusively a Republican, returned to the
White House as director of communications and an assistant to
President Reagan in 1980. Rogers followed, and at age 24 he was
handed responsibility for the administrative management of the
White House. In June 1983, at 27, Rogers became the youngest
person ever to be named an assistant to the president.  ‘Perq Meister’  A New York Times profile that year described Rogers as the
White House’s “Perq Meister” and “an affable man of boundless
self-confidence” who “thrives in the shark-infested waters of
White House politics.”  To Rogers fell the tasks of deciding who got to use the
White House tennis court, who received parking spaces in the lot
on West Executive Drive, and who got television sets in their
offices. An unnamed colleague explained to the Times that Rogers
was “in love with this place and knows how to make the little
things work. He can talk to the telephone operators, the guy at
the Xerox machine, and the Big Four” -- the president’s top
aides.  “He had the tough job in the White House of dealing with
all of the things that determine status,” says James A. Baker III, who was then Reagan’s chief of staff and took Rogers with
him to Treasury in 1984. “Nothing is fought over more
vigorously in the White House than office location, parking
spaces, titles, and things like that, and John was just an
extraordinarily fine hand for me in all of those various roles,
whether it was at the White House or the Treasury or the State
Department.”  Opera, Art  By this time, Rogers had matured into an opera buff, a
collector of Russian art, a ballroom dancer, a member of the
 Advisory Council on Historic Preservation , a member of the board
of trustees of the National Building Museum, the presidential
representative to the board of trustees of the U.S. Capitol
Historic Society, and the director of the Committee for the 50th
American Presidential Inauguration. He’s also on the board of
the Smithsonian Institution and almost single-handedly pushed
through restorations of the Old Executive Office Building and
the historic Cash Room at the  U.S. Treasury . In 1985 he was
awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal, which he keeps on his
desk at Goldman Sachs.  After a brief stint in the private sector with Washington
commercial real estate firm Oliver Carr, Rogers served as Under
Secretary of State for Management in the George H. W. Bush
Administration before moving to Houston with Baker in 1992 to
help establish the James A. Baker III Institute for Public
Policy at Rice University.  Powerful Mentors  His relationship with Baker was characteristic of Rogers’s
deft touch with powerful mentors. When the Soviet Union
dissolved on Baker’s watch, it was Rogers who had the idea of
giving him the Soviet flag that had flown for 40 years in the
State Department.  “He has what I’d call an exquisite attention to detail,”
says Baker.  Rogers was trailed to Houston by allegations that someone
at the State Department had rifled through Bill Clinton’s
passport file before the election to determine whether he had
ever contemplated renouncing his citizenship. Rogers denied
authorizing any such search and told investigators he reported
the incident to Lawrence Eagleburger, the acting Secretary of
State.  Seeking a Job  Baker says Rogers would have been happy to stay at Rice in
a senior administrative job, “but with the administration in
power at that time at Rice it just didn’t work out.” (Rogers
remains on the Baker Institute Advisory Board.) So the Texas
political brain trust went to work to find Rogers a new group of
powerful people to serve.  Robert Strauss founded the law firm of Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld in 1945. Now 92, he’s been a member of the
Washington elite for so long that his political activity dates
to 1937, when he volunteered for fellow Texan Lyndon B. Johnson’s first congressional campaign. It was natural for Baker
to call Strauss in 1994 while casting about for new positions
for his favorite aide -- just as it was natural for Strauss to
know exactly how to engineer a soft and remunerative landing for
Rogers.  Call to Corzine  Strauss had served as a longtime political mentor to  Robert Rubin , the former co-senior partner at Goldman Sachs. When Rubin
left the company in January 1993 to become the senior economic
adviser to President Clinton, his co-partner, Steve Friedman,
took over running the firm. But in 1994, Friedman unexpectedly
decided to retire. Concerned that he’d become a lame duck if he
announced his decision widely, Friedman told only two people:
Rubin, during a private meeting at the White House, and Goldman
Sachs’s general counsel. Knowing that the firm’s leadership was
about to change dramatically, Rubin recommended that Strauss
call Corzine, then Goldman Sachs’s co-head of fixed income, to
see about a job for Rogers.  At first blush, the pairing of Rogers and Corzine seemed
odd. Rogers is a devout Republican, Corzine an avowed Democrat.
Also, Rogers didn’t have the first clue about debt markets or
trading.  Still, Corzine seemed like a good horse to back, and there
was precedent at Goldman Sachs for top government officials
joining the firm, starting in 1969, when Henry Fowler, Lyndon
Johnson’s Treasury Secretary, joined Goldman Sachs as a partner.
( Sidney Weinberg , the firm’s longtime senior partner, had
recommended Fowler to Johnson. While at Goldman Sachs, Fowler
introduced Rubin to Strauss.)  28 Interviews  Rogers likes to tell people that he endured 28 interviews
before getting hired as Corzine’s chief of staff. Perhaps, but
he hardly entered Goldman Sachs through the mailroom.  The idea, in 1994, of an important partner having his own
chief of staff was unprecedented not only at Goldman Sachs but
anywhere on Wall Street, and Rogers struggled to define the
role.  That changed on Labor Day that year, when Friedman finally
made his retirement public. After a week of frantic maneuvering
involving Paulson, Corzine, Friedman, and the other partners on
Goldman Sachs’s 12-person management committee, Corzine emerged
as the new senior partner. Rogers, who had watched from the
sidelines, became his consigliere, with  Hank Paulson  as
Corzine’s second-in-command. Corzine declined a request to be
interviewed for this story.  Media Troubles  Early on, Corzine and Paulson determined that Goldman Sachs
needed public-relations help. After Friedman’s abdication, huge
trading losses prompted some high-profile partner departures --
and a pummeling of the firm in the media.  While Rogers remained on Goldman Sachs’s payroll, Corzine
and Paulson arranged for him to be seconded to Gershon Kekst,
the dean of Wall Street public relations who had Goldman Sachs
as a client.  “Gershon really took him under his wing,” says Paulson.  Kekst, now 76, is famous for his Sphinx-like demeanor; what
he delivers most for his clients is sophisticated silence in the
face of press inquiries.  Soon enough, Rogers was proving himself indispensable to
his patrons. One Goldman Sachs executive, who requested
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about Rogers,
describes him as a great technocrat who’s particularly adept at
workflows, systems, and efficiency.  Paulson’s Coup  Good fortune found Rogers again in 1999 after Paulson
pulled off a coup that removed Corzine from power. Rogers, says
a former colleague who was not authorized to speak on the record
and asked not to be named because the two have a close personal
relationship, thought he was going to get whacked, especially
since, according to Paulson, he had been so closely associated
with Corzine and did not know the power play was coming.  Instead, Paulson put Rogers on the management committee,
made him secretary to the board after the firm’s initial public
offering in May 1999, and encouraged him to wade into the most
important aspects of Goldman Sachs’s future.  “He and I started talking strategically about the client
business,” Paulson says. “Why was it important that I spend
time in  Japan ? Why in China? Why in  Germany ? He made sure that I
met Angela Merkel well before she became chancellor.”  Rogers also helped Paulson set up and execute the
Chairman’s Forum, a long series of meetings that Paulson had
with small groups of the firm’s managing directors around the
world, as well as Pine Street, Goldman Sachs’s leadership
training institute modeled after General Electric Co.’s
Crotonville program. Then, Rogers helped recruit Steven Kerr,
the head of Crotonville, to run Pine Street.  Guardian of Culture  After a mere five years at the firm, Rogers emerged as the
foremost guardian of Goldman Sachs’s partnership culture.  “Our bankers travel on the same planes as our
competitors,” he said as part of a 2006 Harvard Business School
case about Pine Street.  “We stay in the same hotels. In a lot of cases, we have
the same clients as our competition. So when it comes down to
it, it is a combination of execution and culture that makes the
difference between us and other firms,” he said.  “That’s why
our culture is necessary -- it’s the glue that binds us
together.”  To that end, Rogers was the driving force behind hiring
documentarian Ric Burns to make a film about Goldman Sachs’s
history and culture. The film, for internal use only, should be
finished within a year, at a cost the firm wouldn’t disclose.  Sept. 11  Rogers is more than merely skilled at catering to people in
power. He’s an artist. After Sept. 11, he arranged for Paulson,
who was in China when the jets hit the World Trade Center
towers, to be one of the last people to land back home, with
U.S. Air Force escorts. Rogers encouraged Paulson to be the
first CEO to visit China in the wake of the SARS crisis, a
decision that led to a secret dinner with two Chinese leaders in
June 2003 that gave Goldman Sachs early entree to China’s wave
of investment banking business.  What’s less clear is whether he’s any good at the rest of
his job. Under Rogers’s watch as head of press and government
relations, Goldman Sachs has become known as both “Government
Sachs” and “a giant vampire squid.”  According to “The Promise,” by Bloomberg contributor
Jonathan Alter, the “angriest” President  Barack Obama  got
during his first year in office was when he heard Blankfein
justify the firm’s $16.2 billion of 2009 bonuses by claiming
“Goldman was never in danger of collapse” during the financial
crisis that began in 2007.  Rock Stars  Obama told a friend that Blankfein’s statement was “flatly
untrue” and added, for good measure, “These guys want to be
paid like rock stars when all they’re doing is lip-syncing
capitalism.”  Says van Praag: “I’m not in a position to comment on Mr.
Alter’s book, but on multiple occasions we have expressed our
gratitude to the U.S. government and taxpayers for their action
during the crisis.”  Goldman Sachs insiders marvel at how Rogers has retained
his Teflon coating -- and Blankfein’s confidence -- in the wake
of the firm’s vilification.  Rogers faced the greatest threat of his Goldman Sachs
tenure in April 2010, when the firm was hit with twin crises:
the Securities and Exchange Commission’s civil lawsuit over
Goldman Sachs’s infamous Abacus deal, which accused the firm of
misleading investors for failing to fully disclose the role of
hedge-fund investor  John Paulson , and the subsequent 11-hour
public flogging at the hands of the Senate’s permanent
subcommittee on investigations. It was a conflation of poor
government affairs and horrible public relations.  Big Target  At the least, Rogers could claim credit for having
predicted it. According to van Praag, Rogers warned colleagues
that the firm’s 2007 success -- it made $17.2 billion in pretax
income while the rest of Wall Street was imploding -- followed
by its 2009 performance -- nearly $20 billion, pretax -- made it
literally too rich a target for Congress and the public to
resist.  “He said there would be some investigations and we would
likely be the primary focus,” says van Praag. “He was right.”  A consensus quickly developed among Goldman Sachs’s top
executives, including Rogers, that the Abacus suit had to be
settled.  “To be sued by our regulator was devastating,” explains
van Praag. “What mattered was resolving it. We couldn’t be at
war with our regulator.”  No Admission  Goldman Sachs settled with the SEC in July 2010, paying a
$550 million fine, the largest in Wall Street history. Goldman
Sachs neither admitted nor denied the SEC’s allegations.  There was far less consensus about how the firm should
handle the Senate investigation. According to several Goldman
Sachs executives, van Praag and others thought the firm should
engage in a massive, public mea culpa and explain to the
senators that of course the company had regrets about its
behavior and that in retrospect it would have done things
differently. Moving forward, Goldman Sachs could make amends by
firing the responsible people and donating $1 billion or so to
charity.  In the other camp were executives, including Rogers, who
preferred defiance. Rogers was convinced that Senator Carl Levin, the Michigan Democrat and subcommittee chairman, would
use the April hearing and his investigation for theatrics -- he
was right about that -- and Goldman Sachs would best be served
by admitting little wrongdoing. Rather, it would hunker down and
explain its role as a market maker by providing sophisticated
investors the risks they wanted at prices they were willing to
pay.  Front Row  This, of course, was the message the world heard repeatedly
during the Levin hearing. Throughout most of the proceedings,
Rogers could be seen in the front row of the public gallery,
just behind the testifying Goldman Sachs executives.  There’s now a fair amount of second-guessing about Rogers’s
hard-line approach. One former Goldman Sachs executive, who
still works with the firm and feared reprisals for speaking
about Rogers on the record, says the company has lost the
reservoir of goodwill it built up among the journalists who
cover it and that the government now has a bias toward
skepticism of its actions.  The tension over the firm’s punching bag status exists
primarily between Rogers and van Praag. According to people
familiar with both men and their relationship, van Praag
advocated a more accommodating approach to Levin and his
investigation -- and absorbed the public blame for the bad
headlines when Rogers’s strategy won the day.  At Odds  Jack Martin, the CEO of public-relations firm Hill &
Knowlton, has been in meetings with both Rogers and van Praag
and says he’s seen them “disagree aggressively, but that at the
end of the day they come together as one.” A Goldman Sachs
managing director calls it the greatest psychodrama he’s ever
seen, while several former Goldman executives wonder why a firm
that demands Olympian performance in so many areas has indulged
a fractured message and poor performance in this one.  For his part, Blankfein says he has confidence in Rogers
and van Praag and that dissent and disagreement is healthy.  “In the context of what we just lived through at the firm,
there were a lot of opportunities for very tense situations,”
Blankfein explains.  “We managed to really avoid them, which, if you think
about it, is pretty amazing,” he says. “There haven’t been a
lot of people trying to push people off ledges.”  Firm Made Mistakes  Blankfein says he is not contemplating any personnel
changes, though he concedes that the firm has made its share of
public relations mistakes.  The political environment in which Goldman Sachs operates
-- along with every major Wall Street firm -- has changed
dramatically in the wake of the financial crisis and the 2008
election. It no longer works to Rogers’s advantage. Where once
he had a surfeit of relationships across Republican Washington
and easy access to his former boss and patron, Paulson, at
Treasury, and his former partner, Josh Bolten, the White House
chief of staff, things are chillier now.  Obama invited Blankfein and his wife, Laura, to a state
dinner in April. Blankfein and  Timothy Geithner  chatted for 10
minutes on Jan. 10, according to Geithner’s calendar. No other
official contact has been reported since March 31.  According to Jake Siewert, who just completed a two-year
stint as an adviser to Geithner, other than attending the
occasional financial services forum with Blankfein, Rogers is a
nonentity at Treasury. Siewert added that Rogers’s relationship
with Mark Patterson, Geithner’s chief of staff, is particularly
strained, and with good reason: Patterson departed abruptly from
Goldman Sachs in April 2008 after four years as its chief
lobbyist.  Lobbying Team  Rogers’s job does not call for direct lobbying. To do that,
he has put together a team of ex-government staffers including
Michael Pease, a former aide to Representative Barney Frank, the
Massachusetts Democrat; Russell Horwitz, who used to work for
Gene Sperling, chairman of the National Economic Council; and
Dina Powell, a former personnel director at the White House for
 George W. Bush  and then an Assistant Secretary of State for
Educational and Cultural Affairs.  Powell is now head of the Goldman Sachs Foundation, and her
various initiatives -- 10,000 Women and 10,000 Small Businesses
-- have won her and Rogers invites to visit with Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and Obama adviser Valerie Jarrett.  Influence Diminished  Goldman Sachs is clearly too big for Washington to ignore,
whether it’s occasional visits with key players or, more
substantively, trips to the SEC and U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission to help flesh out the new regulations still
being written under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act. But there’s no question that Goldman
Sachs’s influence and swagger have been diminished.  What Rogers remains indisputably good at is keeping his
garden well tended. In June 2006, Rogers played a big role in
luring Robert B. Zoellick to Goldman Sachs as a vice-chairman
and the chairman of the firm’s international board of advisers.  Rogers and Zoellick had known each other since 1985, when
they both worked at Treasury. After a stint as deputy to
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Zoellick turned to Rogers,
among others, to explore private-sector opportunities. Once at
Goldman Sachs, Rogers also helped Zoellick figure out how to
make the company work for him.  “John is somebody who is sincerely interested in helping
people,” says Zoellick. “Not just in my case because I was a
senior person leaving the Administration -- but frankly he’s
helped a lot of little people as well.”  Dreams of Writing  At 17 years and counting in his Goldman Sachs tenure,
Rogers has already been at the firm longer than he was in
government. Friends say he was never motivated by money and has
more than he could ever need. He’s mentioned an admiration for
the writer Robert Caro and is said to dream of one day penning a
presidential biography.  Others think Rogers is a prime candidate for a cabinet post
the next time a Republican administration comes to town.
Zoellick says Rogers is “sui generis” and would be that rare
individual who would see opportunity in running an agency like
the  Internal Revenue Service .  Zoellick left Goldman Sachs in 2007 to become the 11th
president of the  World Bank . He and Rogers are currently working
together to help Republican Senator John McCain set up an as-
yet-unannounced public policy center at Arizona State
University.  “John, in addition to being a student of organizations, is
a student of power,” Zoellick explains. “But he’s learned one
of the most important lessons that many students of power don’t
learn, which is that part of being a master of power is using
power with discretion.”  To contact the writer of this article:
William D. Cohan at  wdcohan@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 