-- 
Romney Would Do Better Job Than Obama Handling the Economy, Poll Shows

-- B y   K r i s t i n   J e n s e n
-- 
2011-09-01T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/romney-is-seen-doing-better-job-handling-u-s-economy-than-obama-in-poll.html
U.S. voters say Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  would do a better job
handling the economy than President Barack Obama, according to a
poll that finds Obama’s disapproval rating is at an all-time
high.  The Quinnipiac University survey found that 46 percent of
voters favor Romney’s skills in recharging the economy, while 42
percent opt for Obama. At the same time, 52 percent disapprove
of Obama’s job performance, compared with 42 percent who
approve. In July, 46 percent in the poll disapproved of Obama’s
job performance and 47 percent approved.  Obama plans to give a speech next week detailing plans to
spur job growth. Improvement in the economy is the key to
turning around views of his presidency, said  Peter Brown ,
assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden, Connecticut.  “The best news for the president is that voters still
blame former President  George W. Bush  rather than Obama for the
economy,” Brown said in a statement released by the university.
“One can only imagine what Obama’s approval rating might look
like if that ever changes.”  Almost half of voters surveyed said the economy is getting
worse, compared with 11 percent who see it as getting better.
That is a drop from a July Quinnipiac poll in which 32 percent
said the economy was worsening and 23 percent saw improvement.  Voters do trust Obama on the issue more than they trust
Republicans in Congress or Republican presidential candidate
 Michele Bachmann , a Minnesota congresswoman, the poll found.
They were split when asked about presidential contender  Rick Perry , the Republican governor of  Texas .  The Aug. 16-27 poll found that 43 percent of the 2,730
registered voters surveyed favored Obama on the economy,
compared with 41 percent who favored Perry. The poll’s margin of
error is plus or minus 1.9 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristin Jensen in Washington at 
 kjensen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  