-- 
Trucking Rules Called ‘Radioactive’ After Making $1 Billion List

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/trucking-rules-called-radioactive-after-making-1-billion-list.html
President  Barack Obama ’s inclusion
of two proposed rules on truckers’ driving hours on a list of
the seven most expensive pending U.S. regulations makes them so
politically sensitive they may not survive, according to an
industry group.  Items on the list are “radioactive for Republican
lawmakers in the House and a lot of the Senate as well,”  Todd Spencer , executive vice president of the  Owner-Operator
Independent Drivers Association , said in an interview yesterday.
“Any one of those regulations become much more difficult to
push through. They’ll be much more under the scrutiny of
Congress.”  Obama Aug. 30 listed the seven proposals in a letter to
House Speaker  John Boehner , responding to the Ohio Republican’s
request for pending regulations that would cost business $1
billion or more.  Four proposals from the Environmental Protection Agency had
the highest projected costs. The other $1 billion rule, proposed
by the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration , would
require rear-view cameras on cars. NHTSA was required to write
that rule under a 2008 law passed by Congress.  Congressional Republicans have focused on regulation as a
barrier to reducing unemployment. Obama’s administration last
month said it would eliminate unneeded rules to save businesses
$10 billion over five years.  219 Rules  Obama’s administration is writing 219 rules with a price
tag of $100 million or more, compared with 103 implemented in
the first two years of President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, Boehner said in a statement yesterday.  One forum for transportation policy proposals is likely to
be the upcoming multiyear highway bill, which typically includes
directives from congressional oversight panels to NHTSA and
other transportation agencies.  Caroline Califf, a spokeswoman for the House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee, and Jena Longo, spokeswoman for
the Senate Commerce Committee, didn’t respond to requests for
comment.  Truck Driver Rules  The Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration , carved out
of a small office within the  Federal Highway Administration 
under a 1999 law, has been trying to revise work rules for
drivers for more than a decade.  Its two proposed rules may scale back the maximum number of
hours behind the wheel to 10 per day, from 11 now, and mandate
electronic data recorders to keep track of drivers’ hours.  The owner-operators association, based in Grain Valley,
 Missouri , claimed another victory earlier this week in their
fight against electronic data recorders. A federal court Aug. 26
invalidated an earlier Transportation Department effort to
require companies with safety violations to install recorders to
track driving time.  Boehner’s effort to highlight business costs underscores
arguments by small trucking businesses with low profit margins
that pending regulations will make life a lot harder, Spencer
said.  EPA Criticism  The EPA was the regulator most frequently cited by
companies such as  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and business groups such as the
 National Association of Manufacturers  when Representative
 Darrell Issa , the California Republican who chairs the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, invited them to list
their complaints about federal requirements.  Of 111 regulations cited in a report released by Issa in
February, 57 were issued by the EPA.  “It’s time for a real conversation about protecting our
health and the environment while growing our economy,” Lisa
Jackson, the head of the Environmental Protection Agency wrote
in a blog on  Huffington Post  yesterday. “When big polluters
distort EPA’s proposals as a drag on our economy, they ignore
the fact that clean air, clear water and healthy workers are all
essential to American businesses.”  Environmentalists backing the four EPA rules on the White
House list said they were disappointed that Obama didn’t offer a
stronger defense of the benefits to society from lowering ozone
levels and cleaning up power-plant emissions.  “The administration has focused too much on trying to
minimize the costs,” Amit Narang, regulatory policy advocate
for  Public Citizen  in Washington, said in an interview. “Given
the way the  House Republicans  have taken this up, we would like
to see them also extol the virtues of regulation as well.”  $19.7 Million  In 2009 and 2010, the benefits of the most expensive rules
reviewed by the White House, including the public health
benefits of lives saved, exceeded the costs by tens of billions
of dollars, Obama said in the letter to Boehner.  “These rules are merely proposed, and before finalizing
any of them, we will take account of public comments and
concerns and give careful consideration to cost-saving
possibilities and alternatives,” Obama said.  Not all of the regulations on the White House list show
benefits that exceed their costs.  NHTSA estimated costs as high as $2.7 billion for equipping
16.6 million U.S. vehicles a year with rear-view cameras, which
would mean spending between $11.8 million to $19.7 million per
life saved. Proposals at $6.1 million or less are considered
cost-beneficial, NHTSA said in a November analysis.  ‘Not Life-Threatening’  The agency, which delayed the rollout of the regulation
earlier this year, will complete work by the end of 2011, said
Lynda Tran, a NHTSA spokeswoman. Tran declined comment on the
rule’s cost.  Obama should immediately issue an executive order asking
agencies to hold off on rules with a substantial economic impact
until the economy improves, U.S. Chamber of Commerce President
 Tom Donohue  said.  “Maybe they’re important,” Donohue said at a presentation
in  Washington  yesterday. “But if they’re not life-threatening
issues, we ought to hold them off for a while.”  Highway fatalities are one of the leading causes of injury-
related death in the U.S., with 32,788 people dying in crashes
last year, according to NHTSA. There were 3,380 truck-related
deaths in 2009, according to the motor carrier administration.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  