-- 
RWE, EON May Be ‘Long-Term Underperformers,’ Barclays Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:27:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/rwe-eon-likely-to-be-long-term-underperformers-barclays-says.html
RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG are likely to be
“long-term underperformers” after the utilities slashed profit
targets and announced cost-cutting measures last month,
according to Barclays Capital analysts.  “Both stocks remain vulnerable to material consensus
earnings downgrades,” analysts Peter Bisztyga, Monica Girardi
and Susanna Invernizzi said in a note to investors today. German
prices are likely to decline as the number of wind farms and
solar projects increases, they added.  German utility shares have been among the biggest losers.
EON,  Germany ’s largest utility, has dropped 35 percent this year
and announced plans to cut 10 percent of its workforce and
reduce dividends last month. RWE, the second-biggest, has seen
its shares plunge 49 percent this year.  Power prices may drop as low as 50 euros per megawatt-hour
by 2015, driving down profits at both utilities, the analysts
said. Baseload power for 2012 in  Europe ’s biggest market rose 15
cents, or 0.3 percent, to 58.95 euros ($84.16) a megawatt-hour
today, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  EON is also likely to struggle to achieve the 2.7 billion
euros of savings it needs in order to reduce its cost base to a
target of 9.5 billion euros, Bisztyga and Girardi said.  “Both companies are embarking on ambitious cost savings
and performance improvement programs in an attempt to drive
growth,” the analysts said. “Our case study of EON suggests
that it has delivered and retained less than half of its past
efficiency savings, and that 900 million of future savings are
at risk.”  Centrica Plc (CNA)  faces less power price risk and National Grid
Plc has “significant flexibility” to fund investment growth
without raising capital through a share sale, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  