-- 
Samsung’s Pen-Driven Galaxy Note to Fill Gap Between Smartphone And Tablet

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-09-01T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/samsung-targets-pen-driven-galaxy-note-at-smartphone-tablet-gap.html
Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s
second-biggest mobile-phone maker, plans to bridge the gap
between smartphones and tablet computers with a stylus-driven
product that it says cuts the need for other mobile devices.  The Galaxy Note includes features such as a 5.3-inch
display, capturing and annotating on-screen objects with a pen
and re-sizable work spaces. The company is in talks with phone
companies to market the device, which will reach stores in
coming months, Min Cho, senior marketing manager at Samsung’s
mobile unit, said at a briefing in Berlin.  “We’re going to provide a single primary on-the-go
smartphone that consolidates every task of mobile devices”
while imitating the convenience of pen and paper, said Cho,
who’s in Berlin to present the device today at the IFA industry
fair. The Galaxy Note will “be a very useful product for all
consumers who prefer carrying just a single device, and that
could be smartphone as well as tablet users.”  Samsung advanced to smartphone runner-up behind  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
in the second quarter, helped by Galaxy devices that use  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android platform. The Suwon, South Korea-based company
aims to more than double sales in that category this year to 60
million units, J.K. Shin, head of its mobile-phone unit, said in
January. It’s also challenging Apple with tablets, predicting
that sales of its units will rise more than fivefold in 2011.  Cho declined to comment at a briefing yesterday on the
price of the Galaxy Note, which runs on Google’s Android
Gingerbread operating system. Spokeswoman Annika Karstadt said
the machine will probably be priced between smartphones and the
Galaxy S II tablet and may enter German stores in late October.  Samsung is also showing the Wave 3 smartphone, which runs
the company’s Bada 2.0 operating system, as well as the light-
weight, slim Galaxy Tab 7.7 at this year’s IFA.  The South Korean company and Cupertino, California-based
Apple are engaged in legal disputes in their home markets as
well as in Germany and  Australia  over whether products in
Samsung’s Galaxy lineup too closely resemble the U.S. company’s
iPhone and iPad devices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  