-- 
Oracle’s $1.3 Billion U.S. Verdict Against SAP Thrown Out

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-09-02T08:02:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/sap-wins-bid-to-overturn-1-3-billion-oracle-copyright-infringement-award.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s $1.3 billion
copyright-infringement verdict against  SAP AG (SAP) , the largest maker
of business-management software, was overturned by a federal
judge who called the award “grossly excessive.”.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , yesterday granted SAP’s motion to throw out the
verdict. She ruled that SAP should get a new trial for damages
if Oracle rejects her decision to reduce the amount to $272
million, which she said should be the maximum in damages based
on the evidence at trial.  “The verdict grossly exceeded the actual harm to Oracle,”
Hamilton wrote. The jury verdict “was contrary to the weight of
the evidence, and was grossly excessive,” she said.  The jury award in November was a record for copyright
infringement. In the 11-day trial, Oracle accused SAP’s
TomorrowNow software-maintenance unit of making hundreds of
thousands of illegal downloads and several thousand copies of
Oracle’s software. Oracle said SAP’s aim was allegedly to avoid
paying licensing fees and to steal customers.  “There was voluminous evidence regarding the massive scope
of the theft, clear involvement of SAP management in the
misconduct and the tremendous value of the IP stolen,”  Deborah Hellinger , an Oracle spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We
believe the jury got it right and we intend to pursue the full
measure of damages that we believe are owed to Oracle.”  The initial $1.3 billion verdict led SAP to make a
provision of 933 million euros, or 586 million euros after tax,
for the fourth quarter. SAP spokesman Guenter Gaugler said today
the company is reviewing provisions on a quarterly basis.  Hypothetical License  SAP and  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, the second-
biggest maker of  business software , are competitors in the
market for programs that businesses use to automate payroll,
human resources, accounting and other tasks.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , didn’t contest that it was
liable for the infringement by TomorrowNow, which it closed in
2008. Jurors based their award on the value of a hypothetical
license that SAP would have needed to use Oracle’s software.  Such a license would never have existed between two fierce
competitors, so the damage award should have been based on
profit that Oracle lost and SAP gained as a result of the
infringement, SAP said in court filings. That amount was $28
million to $408.7 million, SAP said.  “We are very gratified with the court’s decision,” Jim
Dever, an SAP spokesman, said in an e-mail. “We believe the
jury’s verdict was wrong and are pleased at the significant
reduction in damages.”  SAP dropped 0.6 percent to 37.62 euros in Frankfurt trading
as of 9:26 a.m., while Germany’s benchmark DAX index declined 2
percent. Oracle fell 0.4 percent to the equivalent of $27.60 in
German trading after dropping 0.8 percent in  New York  yesterday.  ‘Final Resolution’  TomorrowNow offered technical support and software fixes
for customers of companies Oracle acquired, including PeopleSoft
Inc. TomorrowNow, which was based in  Texas , made thousands of
duplicates of copyrighted software by accessing electronic
material from Oracle’s customer support websites, Oracle lawyers
said at trial.  Oracle Chief Executive  Larry Ellison  told the jury that SAP
might have paid $4 billion to license Oracle’s software and
could have taken several thousand customers from its PeopleSoft
unit through its access to Oracle copyrights.  TomorrowNow garnered 358 customers out of about 3,000
potential customers and only 86 of them bought products from
SAP. A small portion of those customers converted to SAP
software because of the infringement, SAP attorneys told the
jury.  Evidence  Hamilton said there was no evidence that Oracle had ever
granted a license that would permit a competitor to use its
software to compete for Oracle customers. Oracle can’t recover
lost license fees because, without such evidence, any award
would be subjective and speculative and not based on objective
evidence, she said.  The jury was instructed that a damage award must be based
on evidence, not speculation or guesswork, Hamilton said.  “Oracle’s suggestion, that upon proof of infringement,
copyright plaintiffs are automatically entitled to seek
‘hypothetical’ license damages because they are presumed to have
suffered harm in the form of lost license fees, has no support
in the law,” she said.  Oracle is still entitled to damages, given SAP’s admission
of liability, Hamilton said. Oracle’s expert had estimated that
that Oracle’s lost profit and SAP’s gains from the use of
copyrighted works was between $408.7 million and $272 million.  She said the lower figure was supported by evidence and
gave Oracle until Sept. 30 to tell her whether it will accept
her ruling.  The case is Oracle Corp. v.  SAP AG (SAP) , 07-01658, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  