-- 
Djokovic Advances at U.S. Open Tennis as Top Players Dominate on Day Four

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-02T04:06:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/schiavone-berdych-advance-at-us-open-as-5-time-champ-federer-takes-court.html
Novak Djokovic capped a day of
dominance for top players at the U.S. Open with his most
lopsided three-set victory of the year.  Djokovic threatened to become the first man since Ivan Lendl in 1987 to not lose a game during a match at the
tournament before easing to a 6-0, 6-0, 6-2 win over Carlos
Berlocq of  Argentina .  “The first two sets were ideal. I couldn’t play better,”
said Djokovic, who is seeking to become the sixth man to win
three Grand Slam titles in the same year. “I felt fantastic on
the court. There’s not much I can say when everything seems fun.
It’s enjoyable tennis.”  Djokovic’s win in the final match at Arthur Ashe Stadium
last night came after  Roger Federer ,  Serena Williams  and fellow
No. 1 seed  Caroline Wozniacki  spent just over three hours on the
court between them in cruising to straight-set victories in the
final major tennis tournament of the year.  Williams, an American and three-time U.S. Open champion,
needed 49 minutes to complete a 6-0, 6-1 victory over Michaella
Krajicek of the Netherlands at the National Tennis Center in New
York. Wozniacki of Denmark took little more than an hour to beat
Arantxa Rus, another Dutch player, 6-2, 6-0.  Federer, a five-time men’s U.S. Open champion, won 6-3, 6-
2, 6-2 against Israeli Dudi Sela in 1 hour, 17 minutes.  Defending champion  Rafael Nadal  of Spain is back in action
today, with a second-round match against France’s Nicolas Mahut.  Sharapova Plays  Nadal, seeded second, takes the court after a third-round
match between women’s No. 3 seed  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  and
No. 26 Flavia Pennetta of  Italy .  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. highlights the night session with
a second-round meeting against 18-year-old Jack Sock, a fellow
Nebraskan who won the U.S. Open boys’ title last year. While
Roddick, the 2003 U.S. Open champion, has the lowest Grand Slam
seeding of his career at No. 21, Sock entered the tournament
ranked 555th in the world.  “He’s pretty pumped up from what I’ve seen,” Roddick
said. “He has nothing to lose and everything to gain.”  Fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain faces  Robin Haase  of
the Netherlands, while No. 18 Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina
and No. 28 John Isner of the U.S. are also in action. Fifth-
seeded David Ferrer of  Spain  plays American James Blake.  McHale, Falconi  Unseeded Americans Christina McHale and Irina Falconi
return to the court after their second-round upset wins. McHale
faces No. 25 Maria Kirilenko of Russia in the first match of the
night session in Ashe Stadium and Falconi meets No. 22 Sabine Lisicki of  Germany .  Second-seeded Vera Zvonareva of Russia plays No. 30 Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain for a spot in the fourth round to
start the day, No. 9 Samantha Stosur of  Australia  meets No. 24
Nadia Petrova of Russia and No. 13 Shuai Peng of  China  takes on
No. 19 Julia Goerges of Germany.  One of yesterday’s few upsets came from 18-year-old
American Sloane Stephens, who beat No. 23 Shahar Peer of Israel
6-1, 7-6 (7-4) to reach the third round.  Vania King of the U.S. beat No. 29 Jarmila Gajdosova of
Australia 6-2, 6-0 and will next face Wozniacki, who is into the
third round for the 16th consecutive major.  Men’s seventh seed Gael Monfils of  France  lost yesterday to
Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain in a five-set match that lasted 4
hours, 48 minutes, the longest on day four.  Fish, Berdych Advance  Eighth-seeded Mardy Fish of the U.S., No. 9 Tomas Berdych
of the Czech Republic and No. 11 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France
all won yesterday, while women’s No. 4 seed Victoria Azarenka
next faces Williams after ending a three-match losing streak
against Gisela Dulko of Argentina.  Djokovic improved his record to 59-2 this year by winning
his first 14 games against Berlocq, who was appearing in the
second round of a major for the third time.  Berlocq raised his arms and smiled widely as the crowd
cheered in the third set when he broke the serve of Djokovic,
who won the Australian Open and Wimbledon titles this year.  “I felt a little bit for him in a certain stage of the
match in the third set,” Djokovic said at a news conference.
“He was trying really hard to get back in the match and I have
to give him credit for fighting.”  Djokovic won the next-to-last point of the match by hitting
a shot between his legs. The Serb plays Nikolay Davydenko next.  “I’ve been playing this well for a while this year,”
Djokovic said. “When you’re playing perfectly, everything seems
so good and you’re so happy because that’s exactly where you
want your game to be. This is a tournament where I definitely
want to perform my best.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center in  New York  at
   matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  