-- 
Scotiabank Lifts China Stocks’ Risk Rank After Sino-Forest Halt

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/scotiabank-lifts-china-stocks-risk-rank-after-sino-forest-halt.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  raised its risk
rankings on  Hanfeng Evergreen Inc. (HF)  and  Migao Corp. (MGO)  after other
Chinese companies listed in  North America  through reverse
takeovers plunged.  Ben Isaacson, the Scotiabank analyst, moved the shares to
the “caution warranted” category, from “high risk,” in a
note to clients dated Aug. 30 and made public yesterday.
“Caution warranted” is the second-highest of five Scotiabank
risk rankings and indicates an “exceptionally high financial
and/or operational risk.”  While the change “is not an attempt to group the two
small-cap Chinese fertilizer companies with those Chinese RTOs
that have recently been accused of fraud, we are erring on the
side of caution,” Isaacson said in the note, referring to
companies that went public through a merger with a publicly
traded shell company.  A Bloomberg index of Chinese reverse-takeover stocks that
trade in the U.S. has plunged 53 percent this year as companies
including China MediaExpress Holdings Inc. disclosed financial
irregularities or auditor resignations, raising investor concern
that there may be widespread fraud.  Shares of Sino-Forest Corp., which went public in  Canada 
through a reverse takeover in 1994, were halted Aug. 26 by the
Ontario Securities Commission, which said the company appears
“to have misrepresented some of its revenue and/or exaggerated
some of its timber holdings.”  Kevin O’Connor, a spokesman for Hanfeng Evergreen, didn’t
immediately return a phone call requesting comment on the
Scotiabank note.  ‘Wide Brush’  “We don’t agree with it, but that’s their format,” Jay Hussey, Migao’s vice president of corporate finance, said in a
telephone interview from Toronto. “It’s a paintbrush that’s
probably a little wider than it needs to be right now.”  Scotiabank’s Scotia Capital unit assigns the risk rankings
in addition to ratings based on share price performance
estimates.  Isaacson, based in Toronto, has a “sector outperform”
rating on Migao, which fell 6.4 percent to C$3.65 yesterday in
Toronto, extending its 2011 drop to 53 percent. He has a
“sector perform” rating on Hanfeng Evergreen, which decreased
6.7 percent to C$2.77 is down 54 percent for the year.  The analyst said he has visited several Hanfeng Evergreen
and Migao plants in  China  and isn’t aware of any “non-arm’s-
length transactions” of theirs.  In its cease-trade order, the OSC said Sino-Forest
“appears to have engaged in significant non-arm’s length
transactions which may have been contrary to Ontario securities
laws and the public interest.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  