-- 
Self-Employed Struggle as U.S. Recovery Offers Few Opportunities

-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/self-employed-struggle-as-u-s-recovery-offers-few-opportunities.html
More than 1 million self-employed
Americans are no longer in business almost four years after the
last recession began, as the economy constrains entrepreneurial
activity and small-business job creation.  The 18-month contraction that started in December 2007
initially resulted in more would-be business owners, as the
number of people who work for themselves grew to 16.3 million in
July 2008 from 15.7 million at the end of 2007, according to
data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Since then, the total
has fallen about 10 percent to 14.7 million in July, the data
show.  Employer businesses -- those that provide work for
individuals including the founder -- “have been starting in
fewer numbers, with fewer workers and growing at a slower pace
than in the past,” according to  Robert Litan , a vice president
at the  Kansas City , Missouri-based Kauffman Foundation, which
supports research on start-ups. “Therefore, these entrepreneurs
are generating increasingly fewer new jobs for the U.S. labor
market.”  The number of new employer businesses dropped 24 percent to
505,473 on an annual basis in 2010 from 667,341 in 2006,
according to Litan, who co-wrote a  report  published in July on
small-business job creation.  This has contributed to high unemployment as the economic
recovery slows. The rate has remained above 9 percent for 25 of
the past 27 months, falling to 9.1 percent in July from 9.2
percent in June, BLS statistics show. August data will be
released September 2.  Obama’s Speech  President  Barack Obama  has said small companies can help
spur expansion and will address a joint session of Congress on
Sept. 8 to unveil plans to promote job growth. He told
participants at a White House ceremony Aug. 29 that his
proposals will include making it “easier” for entrepreneurs to
hire people.  Small companies employ about half the private-sector labor
force, so it’s “very difficult” for the jobless rate to
improve when they’re “not doing well, because they are too big
a part of the economy,” said Scott Shane, professor of
entrepreneurial studies at Case Western Reserve University.  Their weakness is also “a very big problem” for office-
supply retailers such as  Staples Inc. (SPLS) ,  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  and
 OfficeMax Inc. (OMX) , which sell to small businesses, said Brad Thomas, an analyst with KeyBanc Capital Markets Inc. in New
York. Same-store comparative sales for this industry have
stagnated at an average zero percent in the past two years,
while other retailers experienced some rebound following
recessionary declines, he said.  Missing Links  “One of the missing links in this recovery has been
stronger small-business growth, which is hurting the sales” of
these companies, said Thomas, who is relatively cautious about
the sector and maintains “hold” ratings on Staples and Office
Depot.  During the economic slump, so-called “necessity
entrepreneurs” started businesses because they couldn’t find a
job and needed to keep food on the table, said Litan. While
their work may be “laudable,” these mainly unincorporated sole
proprietors are less likely to be major employers than firms
that hire other workers in their first year, he said.  The number of unincorporated businesses -- some of them
freelancers who require only a computer and Internet connection
-- fell about 4 percent to 9.5 million in July from 9.9 million
in December 2007, after reaching 10.6 million in July 2008, BLS
data show. The number of incorporated self-employed dropped
about 11 percent to 5.2 million in July from 5.8 million in
December 2007.  Fewer Customers  A lack of customers and fewer opportunities forced many of
these entrepreneurs out of business, according to Kristie Arslan, president and chief executive officer of the National
Association for the Self-Employed, based in  Washington . Small
companies “are still in a recession because of a continued
slowdown in the economy.”  This has limited their ability to spur an increase in jobs,
because employer businesses started in 2009 generated between
700,000 and 1.2 million fewer positions compared with previous
peaks in small-business job creation. About 56 percent of
entrepreneurs who incorporate their businesses for tax and
liability purposes had paid staff in 2005; 44 percent of them
had between one and four workers, according to the most recent
BLS survey.  Even as the decline in incorporated entrepreneurs appears
to have moderated -- the number grew 0.7 percent in July from a
year ago -- this group “has done little to return to where it
was before the recession,” said Shane, a visiting scholar at
the Federal Reserve Bank of  Cleveland .  ‘Crummy’ Economy  That’s because entrepreneurs aren’t immune to the
“crummy” economy of the past four years that also hurt larger
companies, according to Susan Woodward, president and founder of
Sand Hill Econometrics in Palo Alto,  California .  Small businesses grew during the housing boom because
entrepreneurs are disproportionately exposed to the construction
industry, as much as 10 times more than the  U.S. economy 
overall, said Woodward, who also works with Intuit Inc. on its
Small Business Employment Index. When the housing market
collapsed, work for many carpenters and electricians vanished.  A higher exposure to retailing also hurt the self-employed,
as  consumer spending  stagnated between July 2008 and November
2009, Shane said. Since peaking at an annual rate of 3.2 percent
in November 2010, personal consumption expenditures adjusted for
inflation slowed to 2.3 percent in July, according to the Bureau
of Economic Analysis.  The extension of  unemployment benefits  -- to as long as 99
weeks in several states -- has influenced some people’s
decisions about starting their own business, according to
Kristie Arslan, president and chief executive officer of the
National Association for the Self-Employed, based in Washington.  ‘Calculated Assessment’  They “are trying to make a calculated assessment,” she
said. Is the amount they’ll collect “going to be greater than
what they’d make working for themselves?” And if they fail,
they may no longer be eligible for these benefits, she added.  While incorporated entrepreneurs might pay into the system
on behalf of their employees -- and in some states may be
eligible for  unemployment insurance  themselves -- unincorporated
business owners generally don’t participate, Stevenson said.  Seven states --  Delaware ,  Maine ,  Maryland ,  New Jersey ,  New
York ,  Oregon  and  Pennsylvania  -- also offer a self-employment-
assistance program, which provides unemployed people with money
and training for as many as 26 weeks to start a businesses.  Even so, such programs can’t overcome the “extraordinarily
large” gap between what the U.S. economy should be and is
producing, as well as an environment that is “less forgiving”
for mistakes, Stevenson said. “People may have a good idea and
they’d be quite capable of implementing it, but small mistakes
early on can be heavily punished in a bad economy.”  ‘Return to Normal’  Woodward says a large portion of start-up failures may be a
“return to normal.” Historically, entrepreneurs represented
about 10.5 percent of all employment in the U.S. economy, she
said. Beginning in 2003, this rose as high as 11.3 percent
before falling to the historical average earlier this year. So
she’s “less alarmed” about the long-term implications for the
vibrancy of small-business activity.  Some entrepreneurs actually are thriving, Arslan said.
Those who get approved as state or federal contractors are doing
very well, as are business owners who work in healthcare and
information technology, she said.  Small companies still face challenges, including access to
financing and rising health-insurance costs, along with their
exposure to struggling industries, Shane said.  “It’s no wonder entrepreneurs aren’t doing very well,”
Shane said. “And no wonder they’re not adding very many jobs to
the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloombert.net 
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  