-- 
Selling Drugs in Venice Makes Enemies as Berlusconi Opens Italian Economy

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-09-02T12:21:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/selling-drugs-in-venice-makes-enemies-as-berlusconi-opens-italian-economy.html
To drugstore owners on  Venice ’s Lido
Island, Caterina Borgo says she’s public enemy number one.  In 2002, Borgo was working as a pharmacist and refused an
offer from her employer to buy his business for 700,000 euros
($1 million), the usual way of acquiring a license in Italy to
dispense medicines. Borgo waited seven years to open a store
that’s  allowed  to sell non-prescription drugs, creating a new
source of competition and upsetting the status quo.  “Other pharmacists in Lido hate us,” said Borgo, 39. “I
couldn’t accept the idea that either you inherit a pharmacy or
you have to be rich enough to buy the license.”  While  Greece  started lifting the legal shield for more than
150 jobs two months ago, Italy retains restrictions on who can
enter professions. Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  plans to
strip away the protection as he  tries to avert  a debt crisis by
revitalizing an economy that’s trailed the average growth rate
for the euro region since its formation.  Fostering competition across the economy would boost growth
by as much as 1.8 percentage points a year, according to Antonio Catricala, head of the country’s  Antitrust Authority . That
includes protected groups such as pharmacists, notaries,
accountants and taxi drivers.  Flagging Economy  “A liberalization of professions and more in general of
the whole economy may lead to additional growth,” Catricala
said in a telephone interview. More competition would “have a
positive impact on employment,” as joblessness among young
people is about 30 percent, he said.  The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year government bonds jumped to a
record 6.40 percent on Aug. 5 before falling 114 basis points,
or 1.14 percentage points, since then as the  European Central
Bank  bought the debt to stabilize euro region markets. The yield
was as high as 5.26 percent today, the highest since Aug. 9.  Gross domestic product grew an annual 0.8 percent in the
second quarter, the slowest pace since the first three months of
2010 and less than half the average rate for the euro region,
according to data from Eurostat in Luxembourg.  The parliament in Rome will vote as early as next week on a
 plan  passed by Berlusconi’s cabinet on Aug. 12 that commits
lawmakers to liberalizing the professions within a year. Some
barriers, such as compulsory membership of professional groups
and tests to join, would require changes to the  constitution .  Saving Money  The legislation was included in 45.5 billion euros of tax
increases and spending cuts to reach a balanced budget in 2013,
and should competition help lower prices, it might help offset
some of the austerity measures, according to Fabio Fois, an
economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London .  “If next year you are going to pay less for lawyers,
accountants, you know, whatever, it’s going to be an increase in
surplus of consumers that can help offset a little bit the
tightening of fiscal austerity measures,” Fois said.  Data from the Organization for the Economic Cooperation and
Development show that Italy has  the third-heaviest regulation  of
professional services in the developed world, after Turkey and
Luxembourg. As the access to dozens of jobs is reserved to the
lucky few, the lack of competition in the country bearing the
world’s third biggest debt is a drag on consumers and fares.  “Without reforms, Italy’s growth potential is poised to
remain low,” said  Lavinia Santovetti , an economist for Nomura
International in London. On Aug. 20, Santovetti and colleagues
said that Italy will miss its targets because they are based on
growth assumptions that are “too optimistic.”  Trichet’s Potential  Finance Minister  Giulio Tremonti   told  lawmakers on Aug. 11
that a “full liberalization” of professions was requested in a
confidential letter to the government signed by ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  and his successor from November, Bank Of
Italy Governor  Mario Draghi .  “It is essential that all those measures that allow full
exploitation of Italy’s medium and long-term economic potential
are introduced,” Trichet said in an interview with  Il Sole 24
Ore  published today. “Today there is a huge potential that is
not tapped as it should be.”  Past attempts by national and local authorities to increase
competition met opposition.  In November 2007, the City of  Rome  said it would issue 500
new taxi licenses, promoting cab drivers to stage a wildcat
strike, parking their white cars along the roads that wind
around the Colosseum during the evening rush hour and bringing
the traffic around the historic center to a standstill.  Athens  Protest  Drivers in and around Athens blocked approaches to airports
and disrupted ferry services in recent weeks to protest the
government’s decision to open up more industries to competition.
The Greek law came into effect on July 2.  Previous plans in Italy “to liberalize professional
services have been stalled for some time and should be speeded
up,” the Paris-based OECD said in  a report  in May.  Borgo, the pharmacist on the Venetian island that hosts the
city’s  film festival  this week, took advantage of a law in 2006
that Berlusconi’s party subsequently tried to reverse.  The measure paved the way for “parafarmacie” and required
that their managers had graduated at least five years before and
worked for two years in a licensed drugstore. They operate
alongside pharmacies like paramedics compared with doctors.  “I joined forces with a former pharmacy trainee and two
years ago, we opened a parafarmacia on the high street,” Borgo
said by telephone. “Today we make enough money to employ a
part-time assistant.”  ‘Old Privileges’  The law increased competition in an industry that has
 annual sales  of 19.2 billion euros in Italy, figures from the
pharmaceutical industry group Farmindustria show. Since then,
almost 3,500 independent drugstores have been opened, currently
employing about 7,000 people, according to the  Forum Nazionale
Parafarmacie  group.  A  bill  put forward three years ago by Senator  Luigi
D’Ambrosio Lettieri , a member of Berlusconi’s party in Italy’s
Upper Chamber, imposed restrictions on the kind and number of
medicines new drugstores like the one opened by Borgo can sell.  Lettieri is the vice president of the  pharmacist
federation , which opposed the creation of parafarmacie. The law
still requires a final vote by both houses after being approved
by committees.  “Any previous initiatives by lawmakers to block or reduce
the size and the scope of liberalizations and restoring old
privileges will come to an halt in the light of the
government’s” new measures, Catricala said. Those initiatives
“won’t be politically compatible any longer,” he added.  On Lido, it’s no surprise Borgo, a mother-of-four who
graduated in 1994 and worked first as a researcher for what
became  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,  Europe ’s largest drugmaker, has made
some enemies in the last three years, she said.  Resistance to change “can be worse than any legal
obstacles,” said Borgo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at   abdavis@bloomberg.net  