-- 
Sept. 11 Teaches Reinsurers About ‘The God Clause’

-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 
2011-09-01T14:51:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/sept-11-teaches-reinsurers-about-catastrophe-planning-the-god-clause-.html
(Corrects executive’s title in third-to-last paragraph.)  At 9:03 a.m. on Sept. 11, 2001,
Britt Newhouse stood in the lobby on the 52nd floor of the south
tower of the World Trade Center.  After United Airlines Flight 175 banked above the harbor
behind him, it was pointed at the 50th floor. If not trimmed
correctly, an airplane will rise as it accelerates, and the man
who had killed and replaced the airplane’s pilot added power
until he hit the South Tower 24 floors above Newhouse.  He doesn’t remember the sound of the impact.  At the time, Newhouse ran  Guy Carpenter  & Co.’s Americas
operation, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Sept. 5 issue.
Guy Carpenter brokers reinsurance treaties, which protect
insurers when a catastrophe -- a hurricane or an earthquake --
causes losses on a large number of policies. Reinsurance, in
essence, is insurance for insurers.  Consumers don’t tend to know what reinsurance is because it
never touches them directly. Reinsurers, massively capitalized
and often named after the places where they were founded --
Cologne Re, Hannover Re, Munich Re, Swiss Re -- make their
living thinking about the things that almost never happen and
are devastating when they do.  But even reinsurers can be surprised. And the insurers who
make up their market put them on the hook for everything, for
all the risks that stretch the limits of imagination. This is
what the industry casually refers to as the “God clause:”
Reinsurers are ultimately responsible for every new thing that
God can come up with.  Shrinking God Clause  As losses grew this decade, year by year, reinsurers have
been working to figure out what they can do to make the God
clause smaller, to reduce their exposure. They have billions of
dollars at stake. They are very good at thinking about the world
to come.  Lloyd’s, the London-based company that invented the modern
profession of insurance, publishes a yearly list of what it
calls “Realistic Disaster Scenarios.” The list imagines such
events as two consecutive Atlantic seaboard windstorms or an
earthquake at the New Madrid fault in the Mississippi Valley,
either of which could strain or break an insurer’s balance
sheet.  By 2001, Lloyd’s had already envisioned two airliners
colliding over a city, launching claims on hull insurance for
the planes, property insurance and workman’s comp on the ground,
and  life insurance  everywhere. But even Lloyd’s lacked the
imagination to anticipate Sept. 11.  Hard to Believe  “People find it hard to believe in a risk unless they can
see it in their mind,” says Trevor Maynard, head of exposure
management for Lloyd’s. “When you try and describe a risk like
this -- some terrorists are going to teach themselves how to fly
a plane, they will fly into property, the buildings will be
weakened -- by the time you get to your third point, peoples’
eyes are glazing over.”  Floors 49 through 54 of the South Tower housed Guy
Carpenter’s home office and its 750 employees. To any of
Newhouse’s clients -- insurers -- professional employees in an
 office tower  would have presented an attractive bet in terms of
risk and reward. There are few slips and falls in white-collar
work and not much dangerous equipment lying around. Newhouse
indulges in mild profanity and, thinking like a broker, often
lapses without warning into the voice of his customers as they
think about risk.  “If I insure 40 of these firms in two towers across 200
floors, probably the worst is that eight of them, maybe six of
them, could be involved in the same loss,” he said. “Because
the fire department can get there ... usually a fire never
spreads, historically, beyond six floors.”  High Frequency  The insurance industry describes these kinds of risks as
“high frequency:” The more often a kind of accident occurs,
the easier it is to guess its chance of happening and the easier
it is to price insurance coverage. For slips, lawsuits, and
fires, historical trends predict future probability.  “What they hadn’t imagined,” said Newhouse, picking his
words carefully, “was an intentional act of human causative
agency.”  Guy Carpenter lost 29 employees on Sept. 11. When the plane
hit his building, most of Newhouse’s employees were well below
him or out of the tower already. Guy Carpenter’s chief executive
officer had traveled to an annual conference in Monte Carlo,
leaving Newhouse as the most senior manager.  After American Airlines Flight 11 hit the North Tower, he
told everyone to leave. The company had been in the World Trade
Center in 1993 when a bomb exploded below the North Tower. His
employees did not need to be reminded that the world was a
dangerous place, even if the building’s collapse still lay
outside of the realm of imagination.  Ground Level  By the time Newhouse reached the plaza level, a cordon of
police officers waited to direct him through the mall below.
When he got back to street level both towers were still
standing. The hole in the North Tower glowed, he says, like a
dragon in a cave.  He saw the chaos on the ground beneath the towers and
looked for a Hudson River ferry. He had no trouble getting on
board; there was no rush.  “There were people hanging around,” he said, “working
their cell phones and watching.”  They were still there in the streets, watching, when his
ferry backed out and the floors of the South Tower began to
collapse and accelerate down. Until that second, they hadn’t
believed that anything more could happen to them. No experience
of fear drove them to get far away, as fast as they could, until
it was too late.  Dumb Luck  I was standing there, too. I survived by dumb luck.  In the fall of 1998 I started a job in  New York  with one of
the world’s largest reinsurers. Soon after, at a meeting in a
conference room above Park Avenue, someone complained that the
market for reinsurance had gone soft.  “What we need,” he said, “is a good catastrophe.”  It was a joke, but true, too. I offered that a cyclone had
hit Bangladesh and it had been an active year for cyclonic
storms. No, he explained, little of that value was insured.  “Honestly,” said someone else, “I’ve never understood
why those people don’t just leave. It’s a dangerous place.”  By definition, reinsurers work at the edge of suffering,
and so have developed euphemisms to help them stand at a
distance. A catastrophe is called a “loss event.” A
catastrophe big enough to affect several reinsurers is called an
“industry loss event.” Reinsurers both need and fear these.  Destructive Fire  The first dedicated reinsurer, Cologne Re, formed after a
fire leveled about a quarter of the city of Hamburg,  Germany , in
1842. A loss event reminds insurers of the value of the product;
reinsurers can raise rates, and the higher rates attract new
capital.  According to  Dowling & Partners , an  investment adviser  for
the  insurance industry , after  Hurricane Andrew  ran across
southern  Florida  in 1992, eight new reinsurers entered the
market, together valued at $2.9 billion. Although hurricanes
seem frequent, the insurance industry defines them as “low
frequency” events; there are perhaps 10 a year and not tens of
thousands. Unlike car accidents, you cannot look at the last
decade of hurricane results and predict this year’s losses with
any accuracy.  Andrew’s $25 billion in losses, along with the then-new
availability of cheaper computing power, helped push insurers
and reinsurers toward computer-driven modeling, which leaned on
meteorology and seismology to more precisely define potential
losses by estimating storm paths and categories and fault lines
and tremor strengths. The models are sophisticated, but reality
is wily.  Entering the Market  After Sept. 11, another eight new reinsurers followed the
higher rates and entered the market, together valued at
$8.6 billion. Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, and Wilma lured five
more new reinsurers with $5 billion in capital. Between
catastrophes, the new capacity drives premiums back down and
reinsurers are forced to undervalue risks to stay in the market.  Vincent J. Dowling of Dowling & Partners refers to this as
the “cheating phase” of the cycle. That is, even though
catastrophes present an existential threat to insurers, and the
sober assessment of risk is a firm-defining competency,
insurers, like people, can get complacent.  “The psychology piece dominates, even in boardrooms,”
said David Bresch. “People measure against the perceived
reality around them and not against possible futures.” Bresch
is in charge of sustainability and risk management for Swiss Re,
founded in 1863 after a city fire in Glarus,  Switzerland , and
now the world’s second-largest reinsurer.  Perceived Reality  “If the gap between modeled reality and perceived reality
is too big,” said Bresch, “that tells you something about the
market share you’d like to achieve.”  In other words, what the models show as a best guess of a
risk may not be what the insurers perceive the risk to be, and
it can take more than just data alone to scare insurers into
paying for risks at a rate that keeps reinsurers solvent over
the long term. That takes an industry loss event. It takes a
catastrophe.  Heike Trilovszky runs corporate underwriting for  Munich Re ,
the world’s largest reinsurer. The afternoon of Sept. 11, the
press and the company’s shareholders needed to know what Munich
Re’s losses would be.  “To get answers we had to ask the brokers,” she said.
“Aon Benfield, Guy Carpenter, they had offices in those
buildings. It was odd. Is my counterpart still alive?”  ‘We Will Survive’  Before the end of the week, Munich Re had an initial
estimate. In October, Trilovszky was at an off-site meeting when
a board member arrived late. He had seen the revised loss
estimate and he was pale.  “We will survive,” he said, “but it’s serious.” Munich
Re’s losses after Sept. 11 ultimately came to $2.2 billion.  Reinsurance treaties are full of exclusions, but before
Sept. 11 terrorism was not considered significant enough to be
one of them. Most reinsurance treaties renew on Jan. 1 and the
meeting oriented itself around a new question: What do we do on
1/1/2002?  “‘There were 15 managers, all with a background in
property,” said Trilovszky. “We had flip chart paper and we
put it on the floor. We were kneeling on the floor, working out
concepts, brainstorming ideas … that was the Munich Re strategy
for terrorism risk in the first days after 9/11.”  Terrorism Risk  In 2002, together with the rest of the industry, the
company wrote terrorism risk out of any treaty with an insured
value of greater than $50 million. Terrorism is what Trilovszky
calls “non-fortuitous.” It stems from a few angry, motivated
people, and nothing says there can’t be 10 World Trade Center
events in a single year.  “There cannot be a mathematical model,” she said, “for
people like bin Laden.”  Reinsurers prefer to underwrite risks they can name; such a
treaty is called a “named perils” cover. Far more often,
however, the market forces them to sign an all-perils cover.
Although reinsurers can exclude risks they already know about
from an all-perils treaty -- an act of terrorism, for example --
they cannot exclude what  Donald Rumsfeld  might call an unknown
unknown. That’s the God clause.  Models exist for some low-frequency risks such as
hurricanes, earthquakes, and oil spills, but they don’t exist
for every one. Trilovszky doesn’t have a model for airplane
crashes.  Theoretical Loss  “Would it hurt us if crashes became more frequent? It
would,” she said. “As it is now, I’m not sure we ever had a
property loss from an aircraft crash. It’s theoretical. It lives
within the error of the models we have.”  The second something unexpected happens, though, it’s no
longer theoretical or unimaginable.  “The history of the industry,” said Newhouse, the broker,
“is we cover everything in a catastrophe until after the
catastrophe. Then we rewrite it.”  Until the Sixties there was no hours clause -- a time limit
-- on damage that can be claimed to be from a hurricane. Now the
standard is 96 hours. Newhouse has been a reinsurance broker for
35 years. Every new industry loss event -- every new catastrophe
-- is the biggest in his career, he likes to say, and he knows
by now that every catastrophe teaches the industry something.  “If you want to be able to price (an event), if you want
to be able to build an industry and a capital base that can
handle it … then you’d better figure out a way to define it.
Then capital can be accumulated to deal with it.”  Industry’s Failure  I ask him why the reinsurance industry failed after the
World Trade Center bombing of 1993 to either raise prices for
terrorism coverage or to exclude acts of terrorism from coverage
altogether. He looks at me as if he would like for me to figure
it out for myself so he doesn’t have to say it.  “Because it wasn’t big enough,” he says, pausing before
adding, “economically.” The cost of an event, he explained,
dictates how much the industry spends on understanding and
preventing it.  “I’m not saying people didn’t react to it,” he added,
“but you know, if your company’s life is threatened by the size
of the loss, you’re going to react much differently.”  Newhouse keeps in his office a collection of plaster
monkeys, the kind that come in sets of three with hands over
ears, mouths, and eyes. They remind him when approaching a
reinsurer about a client to hear, speak, and say no evil. The
monkeys are all gifts, given to him to rebuild a much larger
collection that was lost when his last office disappeared.  Lake Zurich  Swiss Re ’s global headquarters face Lake Zurich,
overlooking a small yacht harbor. Bresch and a colleague,
Andreas Schraft, sometimes walk the 20 minutes to the train
station together after work, past more yachts, an arboretum, and
a series of bridges.  In September 2005, probably on one of these walks, the two
began to discuss what they now call “Faktor K,” for
“Kultur:” the culture factor. Losses from Hurricanes Katrina,
Rita, and Wilma had been much higher than expected in ways the
existing windstorm models hadn’t predicted, and it wasn’t
because they were far off on wind velocities.  The problem had to do more with how people on the Gulf
Coast were assessing windstorm risk as a group. Mangrove swamps
on the Louisiana coast had been cut down and used as fertilizer,
stripping away a barrier that could have sapped the storm of
some of its energy. Levees were underbuilt, not overbuilt.
Reinsurers and modeling firms had focused on technology and the
natural sciences; they were missing lessons from economists and
social scientists.  Tolerate Risk  “We can’t just add another bell and whistle to the
model,” said Bresch. “It’s about how societies tolerate
risk.”  “We approach a lot of things as much as we can from the
point of statistics and hard data,” said  David Smith , head of
model development for Eqecat, a natural hazards modeling firm.
“It’s not the perfect expression.”  The discrepancy between the loss his firm modeled for
Katrina and the ultimate claims-based loss number for his
clients was the largest Smith had seen. Like others in the
industry, Eqecat had failed to anticipate the extent of levee
failure. Construction quality in the Gulf states before Katrina
was poorer than anticipated, and Eqecat was surprised by a surge
in demand after the storm that inflated prices for labor and
materials to rebuild.  Smith recognizes that these are questions for sociologists
and economists as well as engineers, and he consults with the
softer sciences to get his models right. But his own market has
its demands, too.  Based on Data  “The more we can base the model on empirical data,” he
said, “the more defendable it is.”  After their walk around the lake in 2005, Swiss Re’s Bresch
and Schraft began meeting with social scientists and laying out
two goals. First, they wanted to better understand the culture
factor and, ultimately, the risks they were underwriting.
Second, they wanted to use that understanding to help the
insured prevent losses before they had to be paid for.  The business of insurers and reinsurers rests on balancing
a risk between two extremes. If the risk isn’t probable enough,
or the potential loss isn’t expensive enough, there’s no reason
for anyone to buy insurance for it. If it’s too probable and the
loss too expensive, the premium will be unaffordable. This is
bad for both the insured and the insurer.  Risky Behavior  So the insurance industry has an interest in what it calls
“loss mitigation.” It encourages potential customers to keep
their property from being destroyed in the first place. If Swiss
Re is trying to affect the behavior of the property owners it
underwrites, it’s sending a signal: Some behavior is so risky
that it’s hard to price. Keep it up, and you’ll have no
insurance and we’ll have no business. That’s bad for everyone.  To that end, Swiss Re has started speaking about climate
risk, not  climate change . That the climate is changing has been
established in the eyes of the industry.  “For a long time,” said Bresch, “people thought we only
needed to do detailed modeling to truly understand in a specific
region how the climate will change. … You can do that forever.”  In many places, he said, climate change is only part of the
story. The other part is economic development. In other words,
we’re building in the wrong places in the wrong way, so wrong
that what we build often isn’t even insurable.  In an interview published by Swiss Re, Wolf Dombrowsky, of
the Disaster Research Center at Kiel University in Germany,
points out that it’s wrong to say that a natural disaster
destroyed something; the destruction was not nature’s fault but
our own.  Stone Buildings  In 1888, the city of Sundsvall in Sweden, built of wood,
burned to the ground. A group of reinsurers, Swiss Re among
them, let Sweden’s insurers know there was going to be a limit
in the future on losses from wooden houses, and it was going to
be low. Sweden began building with stone. Reinsurance is a
product, but also a carrot in the negotiation between culture
and reality; it lets societies know what habits are
unsustainable.  More recently, the company has been working with McKinsey &
Co., the European Commission, and several environmental groups
to develop a methodology it calls the “economics of climate
adaptation,” a way to encourage city planners to build in a way
that will be insurable in the future.  A study of the U.K. port of Hull looks at potential losses
by 2030 under several different climate scenarios. Even under
the most extreme, losses were expected to grow by $17 million
due to climate change and by $23 million due to economic growth.
How Hull builds in the next two decades matters more to it than
the levels of carbon dioxide in the air.  Gulf Coast  A similar study for  Entergy Corp. (ETR) , a New Orleans-based
utility, concluded that adaptations on the Gulf Coast -- such as
tightening building codes, restoring wetlands and barrier
islands, building levees around chemical plants, and requiring
that new homes in high-risk areas be elevated -- could almost
completely offset the predicted cost of 100-year storms
happening every 40 years.  As with Sweden’s stone houses, all of these adaptations
cost more money in the short run, but reinsurers must take the
long view, and they can drag development along with them. The
public, whom the reinsurers refer to as “the original
insured,” should be concerned by these hints.  Even when they are forced to sign all-perils covers,
reinsurers are writing more known risks out of their treaties.  More Surprises  Swiss Re publishes an annual report on catastrophe losses;
since the 1970s losses have been increasing exponentially. It’s
this graph that gives reinsurers pause. The God clause includes
less each year because every loss event -- every catastrophe --
reminds them of the hubris of thinking God doesn’t have any
surprises left.  Munich Re’s Trilovszky offered a similar point from a
different perspective: The companies that buy insurance are
complaining, she said, that insurers and reinsurers have capital
but aren’t willing enough to take on new business risks, such as
the risk of a compromised brand or stolen intellectual property.  Like many reinsurers, Munich Re underwrites a line called
“contingent business interruption.” Essentially, if for some
reason a supplier fails to produce a crucial part for a factory,
business interruption insurance covers the factory’s owner.  The earthquake off the coast of  Japan  this March happened
on a Friday; on Saturday, Trilovszky was doing research on an
initial loss assessment when she discovered that a technology
company in Louisiana had already stopped operations. It had run
out of chips. “That,” she said, “was my eye-opener.”  Supply Chains  Reinsurers are already exposed to a loss after a natural
catastrophe. But given the complexity of global supply chains,
it’s hard to tell exactly how much more loss will come from
business interruptions elsewhere in the world. Two seemingly
uncorrelated risks -- an earthquake in Japan and a tech firm in
Louisiana -- are now related.  Losses gather mass and complexity on their way toward
reinsurers, which serve as a garbage bin for systemic risk.
Reinsurers haven’t yet figured out how to respond to the problem
of contingent business interruption after a catastrophe.  “The easy thing to do is, we don’t cover this,”
Trilovszky said. “The question is to adjust the product so it’s
still useful for the insured but possible for the insurer.”  You could think of politicians as underwriters, too. Like
Bresch and Trilovszky, they must compare the probabilities of
low-frequency events, weighing the risk of a downturn against a
sovereign default, or of Chinese imperial ambition against more
small wars in the  Middle East , or of climate change against the
cost of regulation.  Pursuit of Truth  Reinsurers, however, have no incentive to mislead. Their
choices on risk, with billions of dollars at stake, are
necessarily aligned with the pursuit of truth. If a reinsurer is
more scared of a risk than it should be, its shareholders will
punish it. If it is less scared than it should be, the world,
eventually, will break it.  There are rewards for politicians, corporations, think
tanks, and activists who dissemble about risk. There are none
for reinsurers. If they’re taking on less of it than their
insurers would like them to, then the world is more dangerous
than we’re willing to admit.  What a reinsurer will underwrite, then, offers a marker,
one edge of what Bresch calls the gap between modeled and
perceived reality. For instance, no event of the last 10 years -
- the invasion of Iraq, the re-election of  George W. Bush , the
surge, the election of Barack Obama, or the death of Osama bin Laden -- has persuaded the reinsurance industry to budge from
its stance on terrorism risk on Jan. 1, 2002.  A Constant  For those with billions waged on getting it right,
terrorism is now a constant, and almost impossible to cover.  By 2001, I was working as a consultant for another
reinsurer, Converium. The company kept its U.S. front office on
the 47th floor of One Chase Manhattan Plaza at the corner of
Nassau and Cedar streets.  I did several stupid things on Sept. 11. I already knew an
airplane had hit a tower when I got on the subway to go to work.
I learned of the second plane while I was still on the train,
got off at my stop, and walked four blocks closer.  I bumped into my 9 a.m. meeting in the lobby of One Chase.
He told me we had been sent home and started walking north. I
rode the elevators 47 stories up, since I figured I would need
my laptop. I called my mother and told her I was safe.  I rode the elevator back down and walked a block closer
until I was separated from the South Tower by a small park. As
Newhouse stepped onto a boat for  New Jersey , I stood and
listened to news on the radio of a limousine parked with its
windows down, and I watched.  Expecting to Die  When the South Tower began to fall the ash was thick,
black, and moving fast, and I assumed, briefly, that I was going
to die. And then I didn’t. Maps of Sept. 11 victims show bodies
recovered on that block at the corner of Cedar and Broadway. I
ran, found a hole in the dust that was the door to Two Chase
Plaza, and I lived. Until the tower began to fall, it just
didn’t occur to me that anything worse could happen.  It’s a simple story. I wasn’t worried about terrorism. And
now I am.  In December 2001, I was working late, back up on the 47th
floor, when the fire alarm rang. I bolted from my desk and past
a break room where two janitors were still sitting.  “Don’t we need to leave?” I asked. “They’ll tell us if
we have to,” they said. I ran, alone, down 47 flights of stairs
and emerged on the street without wallet, coat, or keys. There
was no fire. I spent the night with friends. I had overpriced
the risk of terrorism.  ‘Culture of Risk’  Catastrophes do not surprise all societies equally. Greg
Bankoff, an historian at the University of Hull in Britain, has
defined for the Philippines a “culture of risk,” a set of
adaptations built around the constant threat of natural
disaster. Agricultural systems in the Philippines focus on
minimizing loss rather than maximizing yield. The islands
developed a kind of low, buttressed “earthquake baroque” style
for stone buildings. Communities are quick to relocate out of
danger.  In a paper this year on risk culture in Western Europe,
historian Christian Pfister of the University of Bern in
Switzerland details how towns pass on memories of disaster.  A stone house in Wertheim, Germany, sits on the Tauber
River, painted with the dates and levels of floods back to 1621.
Storm tide markers dot the North Sea coast. In 1606 the farmers
of  Italy ’s Aosta Valley built a chapel near the glacier that
delivered regular floods and began a procession to it every
July. And on Japan’s east coast, stone tablets mark the high-
water marks of tsunamis.  Remember This Flood  They all send the same message: When we are gone, remember
this flood. And prepare for the next one.  From Newhouse’s office you can see, near the receptionist,
a monument to the 29 Guy Carpenter employees who were killed on
Sept. 11. It stands about five feet high, in polished wood,
inscribed with 29 names and topped with a crystal flame.  Newhouse is now Guy Carpenter’s chairman. When I tell him
that I was downtown on Sept. 11, he reaches into a box below his
desk and gives me a pin he’d had made for staff and clients: the
towers of the World Trade Center, wrapped in a single black
ribbon.  I mention the tsunami stones, many of which had been
ignored in the burst of economic activity in Japan that followed
World War II. Commerce grows along dangerous places, on rivers
and coastlines. Is it possible, I ask, that there’s a value to
forgetting? He pauses.  “If the stone is there the stone is there,” he says,
“but 500 years of upside, with the absolute certainty that it’s
going to be the generation after me, not me, that gets drowned -
- that’s human nature, isn’t it?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Brad Wieners in New York at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  