-- 
Seven West Said to Ask Banks for A$2.2 Billion Refinance Plan

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-09-01T07:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/seven-west-said-to-ask-banks-for-a-2-2-billion-refinance-plan.html
Seven West Media Ltd., which owns
 Australia ’s top-rating television network, has asked banks to
submit proposals as it seeks to refinance up to A$2.2 billion
($2.4 billion) of debt, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  Proceeds will be used to help refinance a A$2.55 billion
facility that Seven Media Group signed in February 2007 and
which matures in 2013, the person said, asking not to be
identified as details are private. Details of the new facility
such as pricing and maturity are yet to be determined, the
person said.  West Australian Newspapers Holdings Ltd. brought Seven
Media Group earlier this year, creating Australia’s biggest
media company. Both companies were chaired by billionaire  Kerry
Stokes , who now chairs the merged entity. Seven West also owns
the nation’s second-largest magazine publisher, Perth’s sole
daily newspaper and a half share of the second-most visited web
portal in a venture with Yahoo! Inc.  Banks which helped to arrange the 2007 facility include
Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Mizuho Financial
Group Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd. and Westpac Banking Corp. were among the some 16
banks also committing funds, the data show.  West Australian Newspapers said it would acquire Seven
Media for A$1.98 billion from Seven Group Holdings Ltd. and
buyout firm KKR & Co. on Feb. 21. Including assumed debt, the
A$4.09 billion offer made it the biggest ever purchase of
Australian media assets, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  