-- 
ECB Needs to Reverse Rate Increases to Prevent Recession, Economists Say

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-02T07:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/shadow-council-urges-ecb-to-cut-interest-rates-to-avoid-another-recession.html
The  European Central Bank  should
reverse this year’s rate increases to prevent the euro-area
economy from slipping back into recession, members of the so-
called shadow ECB council said.  A contraction in European manufacturing and plunging
business and consumer confidence suggest the sharp slowdown in
economic growth in the second quarter may continue in the third,
they said. The ECB shadow council is a group of 15 economists
and portfolio managers who watch economic developments and
monetary policy in the euro region and issue recommendations
each month. The Frankfurt-based ECB has raised its benchmark
rate twice in 2011, taking it to 1.5 percent from 1 percent.  “My recommendation is for the ECB to lower the policy rate
by 50 basis points as insurance to lower the risk of outright
recession re-emerging,” said  Julian Callow , chief European
economist at  Barclays Capital  in London. “The economic
deterioration has become sufficiently rapid and alarming to
warrant an immediate unwinding of the ECB’s rate hikes.”  The ECB has reversed direction before. In 2008 it raised
rates in July before being forced to cut them to a record low
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. triggered a
worldwide recession. Three years later, the risk of a renewed
global slump has risen as  Europe  struggles to contain a debt
crisis and the  U.S. economy  is restrained by unemployment above
9 percent.  Cuts Forecast  The euro extended its decline this morning, taking its drop
against the dollar this week to 2 percent. It traded at $1.4218
at 9:27 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  While ECB shadow council members say what they think the
central bank should do -- rather than what they expect it to do
-- some economists are now forecasting rate cuts later in the
year.  “The chance of further interest-rate hikes has evaporated
and a reversal of earlier increases now seems more likely,”
said  Jennifer McKeown , senior European economist at Capital
Economics Ltd, which isn’t represented on the shadow council.
“We have penciled in 25 basis-point interest rate cuts in
December and March.”  The chance of a recession in the euro zone has risen to 50
percent, Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive officer of Pacific
Investment Management Co., said in an interview yesterday.
That’ll force the ECB to lower its benchmark rate, he added.  No Fiscal Stimulus  “The ECB needs to consider the possibility of reversing
the two interest-rate increases implemented earlier this year,”
said shadow council member Marie Diron, senior economist at
Oxford Economics in  London . “Should the growth outlook worsen,
the ECB may need to lower interest rates below 1 percent given
the impossibility of fiscal stimulus.”  Growth in the 17-nation euro region slowed to 0.2 percent
in the second quarter from 0.8 percent in the first as
governments cut spending to rein in budget deficits, damping
demand.  Germany ’s economy, the region’s largest, almost ground
to a halt. Euro-area manufacturing contracted for the first time
in two years in August, a survey of purchasing managers by
Markit Economics showed yesterday.  Elga Bartsch, chief European economist at Morgan Stanley in
London and a member of the ECB shadow council, said she’s
reduced her growth forecast for the euro area next year to just
0.5 percent to reflect the “marked deceleration in
manufacturing activity.”  Abating Inflation  “Inflation pressures should likely abate very quickly in
the coming months,” Bartsch said. “Against this backdrop, I
would advocate that the ECB contemplates a reversal in its
monetary policy decisions and starts to cut its main refinancing
rate.”  Inflation, which the ECB aims to keep below 2 percent, held
at 2.5 percent in August. The global slowdown is damping demand
for fuel, driving down  oil prices  that have been a key source of
inflation. Crude has dropped to $88 a barrel from $114 per
barrel in April.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled this week the
bank may revise its assessment that inflation risks are on the
upside, paving the way for a halt in its policy tightening.  Marco Annunziata, chief economist at General Electric Co.
in London, said there is little doubt that downside risks to the
growth outlook have increased in the euro area and in the U.S.  ‘Watch the Data’  “However, I think there is scant evidence that the  euro
zone  is at risk of a double-dip recession,” said Annunziata, a
member of the shadow council. “The second-quarter slowdown came
after very robust growth in the first quarter. The right
strategy at this stage, in my view, would be to hold rates where
they are, watch the data and focus on financial stability, which
is the main threat.”  An ECB interest-rate cut wouldn’t necessarily improve the
current economic situation in the euro area,  Martin Feldstein , a
professor of economics at  Harvard University , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Some $5.3 trillion has been wiped off equity markets since
July 21, after a summit of European leaders failed to prevent
the region’s debt crisis from spreading to Italy and  Spain  and
the U.S. saw its  credit rating  downgraded for the first time.  ECB policy makers next convene on Sept. 8 to decide on
 interest rates .  “Earlier this year I voted in favor of higher interest
rates, arguing they were necessary to anchor inflation
expectations,” said  Andrew Bosomworth , executive vice-president
and senior portfolio manager at PIMCO in Munich and a member of
the ECB shadow council. “Developments over the last two months
have changed my outlook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  