-- 
Sino Underlying Profit Rises 26% on Higher Property Sales

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-09-01T11:14:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/sino-underlying-profit-rises-26-on-higher-property-sales-2-.html
Sino Land Co., the smallest
developer in  Hong Kong ’s seven-member property index, said full-
year profit excluding revaluation gains rose 26 percent after it
booked more profits from apartment sales.  Profit excluding increases in real estate values rose to
HK$4.4 billion ($565 million) for the year ended June 30 from
HK$3.5 billion a year earlier, Sino Land said in a Hong Kong
Stock Exchange statement today. That was higher than the median
estimate of HK$3.91 billion of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Revenue from property sales jumped 92 percent to
HK$9.3 billion from a year ago.  The developer, controlled by Singapore billionaire Robert
Ng, booked profits from projects including the Hermitage,
Palazzo and Lake Silver in the period under review. The company,
which makes almost all its profit from Hong Kong, paid a below-
expectation price last month for a building site in the Sha Tin
district in a government land auction.  “The purchase is a real bargain for the company,” Adrian Ngan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd., said
before the earnings were announced. “Sino Land and its partners
would be in a better position to expand their footprint in the
area,” where there are six more sites made available by the
government for sale.  Hong Kong developers begin selling apartments before they
are built and only book profits upon completion.  Price Growth Slowing  Growth in Hong Kong home prices is slowing after it surged
more than 70 percent since early 2009 as mortgage rates rise and
as the city’s government implements a series of measures to curb
the formation of an asset bubble. Steps include making more land
available for sale to bolster the supply of new apartments.  Sino Land’s shares rose 2.2 percent to close at HK$12.16 in
Hong Kong trading today, before the results were announced. The
shares have fallen 16.4 percent this year, the second-biggest
loser in the Hang Seng Property Index, which dropped 11 percent
during the period.  Net income at Sino Land rose to HK$10.5 billion from
HK$6.09 billion a year earlier.  Ng is the eldest son of the company’s late founder, Ng Teng
Fong, and has held the chairmanship since 1981. The Ng family is
listed by Forbes as  Singapore ’s richest with an estimated wealth
of $8.9 billion.  Sino Land proposes to pay a final dividend of 35 Hong Kong
cents a share and a bonus share for every ten shares held,
compared with 30 cents a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  