-- 
Slim’s $2.75 Billion Bond Offering Ends Drought: Mexico Credit

-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T12:14:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/slim-s-2-75-billion-offering-marks-end-to-overseas-drought-mexico-credit.html
America Movil  SAB’s $2.75 billion
dollar bond sale, the Mexican wireless carrier’s first
international offering in 14 months, is signaling a revival in
overseas issues by corporate borrowers.  America Movil’s issue yesterday snapped a five-week drought
in Mexican corporate sales and marked the first offering of more
than $500 million by a Latin American company since Aug. 3,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Corporate sales in the
U.S. bond market slumped 49 percent last month to $54.6 billion.  The wireless carrier controlled by Mexican billionaire
 Carlos Slim  is helping lead the rebound in dollar debt sales by
emerging market companies as concern the  U.S. economy  may
relapse into recession eases, spurring demand for higher-yielding
assets. America Movil, whose A2 rating is two levels higher than
the Mexican government, returned to the international market
after yields on its benchmark securities due 2020 tumbled 53
basis points, or 0.53 percentage point, in the past two months
to 3.83 percent, according to Bloomberg data.  “Barring any surprises, I expect that September should be
very busy,” Michael Schoen, head of Latin American debt capital
markets at Credit Suisse, said in a telephone interview in  New
York . “In spite of all of the volatility, emerging markets
continue to perform well.”  Credit Suisse helped manage America Movil’s Aug. 30 sale of
270 million Swiss francs ($330 million) of bonds expiring in
2017 and yielding 2.04 percent.  Acquisition  Brazilian corporate issuance sank 53 percent last month to
$513 million from a year ago while Russian companies sold $150
million of bonds overseas in August, three times less than in
the same period in 2010, according to Bloomberg data.  Latin America ’s biggest wireless company sold $2 billion of
five-year bonds to yield 2.549 percent and $750 million more of
its securities due 2040 to yield 5.502 percent. America Movil,
based in  Mexico  City, sold the debt to help finance the $6.5
billion acquisition of Telefonos de Mexico SAB shares it doesn’t
own. The deal was managed by Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co.  A company official in Mexico City declined to comment.  100-Year Bonds  America Movil’s dollar bond sale, the biggest Mexican
corporate issue this year, followed an overseas offering by the
government this month. Mexico sold $1 billion more of its 100-
year bonds to yield 5.96 percent on Aug. 10.  Companies in Mexico and other emerging-market countries
that are seeking to issue bonds may struggle to find buyers if
there’s renewed concern global growth is slackening, said  Luz Padilla, who manages about $400 million of debt as head of
DoubleLine Capital LP’s emerging-market fixed-income fund in  Los
Angeles .  “Whether the deals are able to get done is a question that
remains to be seen,” Padilla said in a telephone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries rose three basis points
to 199 at 8:11 a.m. New York time, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index.  The peso weakened 0.1 percent yesterday to 12.3466 per  U.S.
dollar .  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in December were unchanged yesterday at 4.69 percent.  Telmex Purchase  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 10 basis points yesterday to 142, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  America Movil said on Aug. 1 that it will buy the 40.4
percent of Telmex, as the fixed-line company is known, that it
doesn’t own, giving it full control of its former parent. Slim
was named the world’s richest man for a second year in a row by
Forbes magazine in March.  Before America Movil’s sales, Mexican issuance had totaled
$737 million in August, according to Bloomberg data. The
previous corporate offering was by Grupo Elektra SA, a Mexico
City-based retail and banking company that sold $400 million of
debt on July 28.  The average yield on Mexican corporate dollar debt has
dropped seven basis points from a 14-month high of 6.60 percent
on Aug. 29, according to JPMorgan.  “The last couple of days have been somewhat stable and
that’s the reason why we’re seeing America Movil,” Surat Maheshwari, the head of international syndications at Itau BBA
USA Securities in New York, said in a telephone interview. “The
money is there, but investors need the right credit to come to
the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Veronica Navarro
Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  