-- 
Solarhybrid Jumps Most in Almost Two Months on Solar Park Order

-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 
2011-09-01T11:46:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/solarhybrid-jumps-most-in-almost-two-months-on-solar-park-order.html
Solarhybrid AG, a solar-project
developer, rose the most in almost two months in  Frankfurt  after
receiving a 111.5 million-euro ($159 million) order to expand a
photovoltaic plant to make it  Germany ’s largest.  The company will expand the 24.3-megawatt Finowtower I
solar park it built last year to a total capacity of 84.5
megawatts for Deutscher Solarfonds Stabilitaet 2010 GmbH, it
said in a statement. Commerzbank AG will provide financing.  Solarhydrid, based in Brilon, broke ground today on the
project on a former military air base at Eberswalde and expects
to complete the project this year. The largest operating solar
plant in Germany, the world’s largest solar market, is the 54-
megawatt Strasskirchen facility owned by fund manager
Nordcapital, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  The company is expecting strong demand for large-scale
solar parks driven by falling equipment prices and is close to
obtaining financing for  Italy ’s largest photovoltaic project, it
said on Aug. 25. It has 149 megawatts in solar plants under
construction and more than 1.1 gigawatts in projects under
development.  Solarhybrid shares gained as much as 9.9 percent to 5.65
euros today, the most since July 6, and have now declined 3
percent this year. The company has a market value of about 35
million euros.  The extension to the Finowtower plant, Solarhybrid’s
largest order so far, will be executed by local contractors
Enerparc AG and Conecon GmbH using solar panels supplied by
Suntech Power Holdings Co.  Equity will be provided by the DSF fund, which was custom-
made by Altira AG for German insurance companies, the Frankfurt-
based asset manager’s results show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  