-- 
Sonders Sees S&P 500 Gain Lasting Beyond Profit Peak: Tom Keene

-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-09-01T19:40:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/sonders-sees-s-p-500-gain-lasting-beyond-profit-peak-tom-keene.html
Concerns that the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index will plunge amid slowing earnings growth are
overblown, according to Liz Ann Sonders of  Charles Schwab  Corp.  “There is this misperception that the minute the peak of
earnings happens, the market is going to fall out of bed,”
Sonders, New York-based chief investment strategist at Charles
Schwab, said in a radio interview today on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt. “The market
tends to continue to fare pretty well unless you get some sort
of massive collapse in earnings, which I don’t think is in the
cards this time.”  The benchmark measure of U.S. equities surged as much as
102 percent from a 12-year low in March 2009 through the end of
April this year as earnings beat analysts’ estimates. Profits at
S&P 500 companies are forecast to grow to $124.11 a share in
2013, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s more than double the annual increase during the 2008-2009
financial crisis.  Concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. growth
drove gold to a record and made Treasuries the world’s best-
performing assets in August. The MSCI World Index of stocks fell
7 percent including dividends, the biggest slump since May 2010,
and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of commodities
lost 1.8 percent.  “We have been in a risk-off environment,” Sonders said.
“Most risk asset classes are very highly correlated,” she
said. “Diversification in a highly correlated world just
doesn’t work. I don’t think it’s a permanent fixture, but it
makes it even tougher for individual investors to navigate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  