-- 
South Africa Bonds Gain as Global Growth Worry Spurs Rate-Cut Speculation

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-09-01T15:12:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/south-africa-bonds-gain-on-rate-cut-bets-global-growth-concern.html
South African bonds rose, with the
10-year note extending the biggest monthly rally in a year, on
speculation a slowing global economy will prompt the central
bank to cut its key lending rate.  The government’s 10.5 percent notes due 2026 jumped 1 rand
to 121.574 rand, driving the yield down 10 basis points, or 0.10
percentage point, to 8.022 percent, as of 5:07 p.m. in
Johannesburg.  South Africa ’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose 81
cents to 93.408 rand, reducing the yield 13 basis points to
7.736 percent. Forward-rate agreements starting in February,
which investors use to lock in  interest rates , declined seven
basis points, the most in more than a week, to 5.23 percent, the
lowest on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A purchasing managers’ index showed that  Europe ’s
manufacturing industry contracted in August more than initially
estimated, U.K. manufacturing shrank the most in more than two
years last month, while in  China , a measure of the manufacturing
industry stayed near the borderline between expansion and
contraction. Chinese export orders fell for the first time in
two years in August.  “The fall in exports will be worrying from a growth
perspective and it suggests that manufacturing may struggle to
recover in the second half of 2011,” Tradition Analytics
researchers led by Johannesburg-based Quinten Bertenshaw wrote
in a report today. “To the extent that faltering U.K. and
European growth hurts South African exports, so growth is going
to suffer and that in turn should see bond markets remains well
supported.”  Rand Weakens  The currency of  Africa ’s largest economy fell 0.6 percent
to 7.0176 against the dollar, briefly paring declines after a
report showed U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in
August. The rand closed yesterday at a three-week high versus
the U.S. currency.  South Africa’s purchasing managers’ index stayed below 50
for the second consecutive month in August, signaling a
continued contraction in manufacturing, Kagiso Tiso Holdings
said. The seasonally adjusted index gained for the first month
in five, advancing to 46.7 from a two-year low of 44.2 in July,
Johannesburg-based Kagiso said in an e-mailed statement today.  “Today’s data is negative for the rand on a gross domestic
product differential basis,” Shireen Darmalingam, a
Johannesburg-based economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., wrote
in an e-mailed note today. “Given the weight of the
manufacturing sector in the economy at 15.5 percent, the outlook
for the sector does not inspire optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  