-- 
South Africa’s President Zuma Boycotts Libya Meeting, Says UN Should Lead

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-09-01T14:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/south-africa-s-president-zuma-boycotts-libya-meeting-says-un-should-lead.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
boycotted today’s meeting in Paris to discuss Libya’s postwar
reconstruction, saying the  United Nations  should lead transition
efforts.  South Africa  says North Atlantic Treaty Organization
airstrikes against Muammar Qaddafi’s government went beyond the
mandate of the UN Security Council resolution to protect
civilians and undermined African efforts to broker a cease-fire.
Zuma’s administration has declined to recognize the National
Transitional Council as the legitimate authority in Libya and
instead called for an inclusive government.  “Now the NTC has taken over the larger part of Libya you
need the United Nations to take the initiative as to how to move
forward,” Zuma told reporters today in Oslo, Norway’s capital,
during a state visit. “If all of us individual countries take
our own individual kind of initiatives we don’t know where this
will end.”  Sixty delegations are attending the one-day Paris meeting.
Participating nations include those that provided air cover for
the rebels -- such as the U.S.,  France , Britain, Italy and Qatar
-- as well as  Germany  and others that refused to commit military
forces.  Zuma said the Security Council resolution 1973 was abused
to favor one side in the conflict and the air strikes resulted
in the death of innocent civilians.  Zuma served as part of an African Union panel that sought
to broker talks between Qaddafi and the rebels. The group called
for a cease-fire and a period of transitional rule that would
lead to democratic elections.  “There was no meeting the African Union halfway in terms
of finding a political way of solving the problem earlier before
so many people died,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 