-- 
Southwest Georgia Ethanol Files Restructuring Plan Giving Lenders Equity

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-09-01T22:27:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/southwest-georgia-ethanol-files-debt-for-equity-recovery-plan.html
Southwest  Georgia  Ethanol LLC, a
unit of First United Ethanol LLC, filed a restructuring plan
turning the company over to secured lenders in exchange for
debt.  The energy producer would give senior secured lenders, owed
about $107.6 million, new preferred equity and new class B
common equity, according to the disclosure statement filed
Aug. 26.  Southwest Georgia Ethanol is projected to have an
enterprise value of at least $103 million after reorganizing,
giving lenders an estimated recovery of 97.5 cents on the
dollar, according to court documents.  Bondholders who are owed about $8.7 million would share the
proceeds of a litigation trust initially funded with $500,000
with Fagen Inc., owed about $4.3 million, and unsecured
creditors owed about $2.1 million, court filings show. They are
projected to recoup 3 cents on the dollar. Granite Falls,
Minnesota-based Fagen was hired to design and construct the
company’s plant.  First United would get new class A common equity, if the
plan is accepted by the bondholders, Fagen and unsecured
creditors. It is “very unlikely” that First United would
“recognize any value from its equity interest,” the company
said in the disclosure statement.  The company was forced to seek bankruptcy because of rising
corn prices coupled with slumping prices received for ethanol,
Chief Financial Officer Lawrence Kamp said in court papers.
“Ethanol and corn prices have been highly volatile in recent
years.”  The company, based in Pelham, Georgia, listed about $162.3
million in assets and about $134.8 million in debt as of
Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents filed in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court 
in  Albany , Georgia.  Southwest Georgia Ethanol owns and operates an ethanol
facility producing about 100 million gallons a year on 267 acres
in Mitchell County, Georgia, according to court documents. The
company processes about 36 million bushels of corn a year.  The case is In re Southwest Georgia Ethanol LLC, 11-10145,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Georgia (Albany).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 