-- 
Barclays’ Absa Challenged Over Plans to Cut South African Job, Union Says

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-09-01T13:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/south-african-union-applies-for-court-interdict-over-planned-absa-job-cuts.html
South Africa ’s Solidarity labor
union said it is applying to the country’s Labor Court for an
interdict to stop planned retrenchments at  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) , the
lender controlled by  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   Some staff at Absa have been asked to relocate from
 Pretoria  to Johannesburg and may be retrenched if they don’t
move as the bank tries to centralize some of its functions, Ilze
Nieuwoudt, a spokeswoman for  Solidarity  said in an interview on
her mobile phone today. “At this stage information is very
scarce, but if on a small scale we’re already seeing events like
this, maybe there’s more to come.”  On Aug. 2 Absa said its first-half profit rose by almost a
fifth to 4.58 billion rand as bad loans declined and the lender
contained costs with its cost-to-income ratio declining to 54.8
percent from 56 percent a year earlier. While rival Standard
Bank Group Ltd. said it was cutting more than 2,000 jobs last
year as its growth slowed, Absa and competitors like  Nedbank
Group Ltd. (NED)  have grown profit and have not announced mass
retrenchments.  “We have no mass retrenchment programme in place,” Louis von Zeuner, the group’s deputy chief executive officer, said in
an e-mailed statement today. “We continue to focus on programs
that enhance efficiencies and effectiveness by reducing
duplication.”  While Solidarity said it has been left out of
consultations, three representatives of Sasbo, a South African
labor union which acts for workers in the financial services
industry, were not immediately able to comment because they were
in meetings with Absa today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  