-- 
South Africa Must ‘Use Elbows’ to Be Competitive, Minister Gordhan Says

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-09-01T20:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/south-africa-must-use-elbows-to-be-competitive-gordhan-says.html
South Africa  must “use our elbows”
to remain competitive as its economic recovery loses momentum,
Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan said.  Africa’s largest economy isn’t growing as fast as other
members of the so-called BRICS grouping, which also includes
Brazil, Russia, India and  China , and must become more
competitive to boost exports, Gordhan said in a speech to
accountants in Johannesburg today.  “South Africa is falling behind,” he said. “In the BRICS
company we’re going to be elbowed. Unless we have the critical
mass to use our elbows, we’re going to find competition tough.”  Growth in the South African economy slowed to an annualized
1.3 percent pace in the second quarter from a revised 4.5
percent in the first, the statistics office said on Aug. 30. A
slump in  Europe , which buys about a third of South Africa’s
manufactured goods, cut factory output, and mining production
contracted. The data has added to expectations the central bank
will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a 30-year low of 5.5
percent and possibly reduce it this year.  Inflation accelerated to 5.3 percent in July from 5 percent
in the previous month, staying inside the  Reserve Bank ’s target
range of 3 percent to 6 percent.  It will take two to three years for South Africa’s economy
to return to its 2008 size, Gordhan said. The pace of growth has
been “slow” over the last two years, he said.  The global crisis has accelerated a shift in the world
economy, to the benefit of emerging economies whose exports are
soaring, Gordhan said. “It’s now clear that the shape of the
global economy has been profoundly altered,” he said.  The rand weakened to 0.2 percent to 7.0042 per dollar as of
9:40 p.m. in Johannesburg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 