-- 
Sprint Chief Hesse May Get Short-Lived Boost From AT&T-T-Mobile Deal Snag

-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T20:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/sprint-may-get-short-lived-boost-from-at-t-t-mobile-deal-snag.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  may get a short-
lived boost from the government’s attempt to bar  AT&T Inc. (T)  from
buying T-Mobile USA Inc.  A blocked deal would keep AT&T from becoming a stronger
competitor in the wireless market, though it wouldn’t help
Sprint tackle the bigger challenges it faces as the unprofitable
No. 3 U.S. mobile-phone carrier.  An independent T-Mobile is likely to keep undercutting
rivals with lower prices, analysts at  Barclays Capital  said.
What’s more, Sprint would have a hard time funding its own
purchase of T-Mobile or getting regulators to sign off on the
deal after they said no to AT&T, said Kevin Smithen, an analyst
at Macquarie Securities USA Inc. in  New York .  “We’re surprised Sprint shares are up,” Smithen said of
the 5.9 percent rise in the company’s stock yesterday. “Sprint
does not have the liquidity to go out and buy T-Mobile. T-Mobile
needs investments in spectrum and network. Sprint has its own
cash requirements in spectrum and network.”  Today, Overland Park, Kansas-based Sprint fell 2 cents to
$3.74 at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The stock, which
surged as much as 9.9 percent yesterday after the government’s
plans were announced, has declined 12 percent this year.  Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  had been lobbying
U.S. regulators to block the acquisition for being anti-
competitive, and he has made regular trips to  Washington  since
the deal was announced in March.  ‘Great News’  A combined T-Mobile and AT&T would leapfrog  Verizon
Wireless  to become the biggest U.S. wireless provider. AT&T is
the second-largest mobile-phone carrier by customers, and T-
Mobile ranks No. 4. Sprint petitioned the Federal Communications
Commission in May to reject the deal on grounds that it would
decrease competition and raise consumer prices. Sprint has said
it would struggle to offer competitive pricing and cutting-edge
technology if the proposed acquisition is completed.  Besides keeping AT&T from bulking up, the potential
blockage also makes it easier for Sprint to snag T-Mobile
customers concerned about their carrier’s fate, said  Michael Mahoney , senior managing director of Falcon Point Capital LLC.  “It’s great news for Sprint,” said Mahoney, whose firm is
based in  San Francisco . “It raises questions for everybody,
especially T-Mobile customers, on what’s going to happen.”  Still, Sprint needs to make upgrades and acquire wireless
airwaves to improve its network and call coverage to keep from
losing more customers. The company discussed buying T-Mobile, a
unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , before AT&T clinched the agreement.  Sprint-T-Mobile Alliance?  Sprint hasn’t had a profit since the third quarter of 2007,
and it has lost 215,000 customers on monthly contracts since the
beginning of the year.  To turn AT&T’s misfortune into its own advantage, Sprint
would have to strike an agreement that lets its customers use
the T-Mobile network,  James Ratcliffe , an analyst Barclays
Capital in New York, wrote yesterday in a research note.  The attempted block is “potentially positive for Sprint,
but only if it means a Sprint-T-Mobile alliance,” Ratcliffe
wrote. “Should Sprint be able to complete a network-sharing
deal with an independent T-Mobile, that would be a positive, but
an independent T-Mobile, with continued aggressive pricing,
would not help Sprint’s competitive position.”  After standing in the way of AT&T’s planned deal, U.S.
regulators would be unlikely to let Sprint turn around and buy
T-Mobile.  The stance will make it harder for companies to make a case
for large, complex mergers in the telecommunications industry,
said Henry Levine, a  partner  at Washington-based  law firm 
Levine, Blaszak, Block & Boothby LLP, which represents large
companies in telecommunications cases.  “It’s a line in the sand,” he said. The suit signals
“you cannot buy one of the major players in the market,” he
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 