-- 
Starbucks Rivals Avoid Ethiopian Coffee as Beans Lose Cachet

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T17:43:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/starbucks-rivals-reject-ethiopian-coffee-as-bean-cachet-withers.html
The mouthful of coffee makes a high-
pitched ting as Stephen Vick spits into a metal urn. “Ethiopian
coffees are really special,” says Vick, quality control manager
for Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea. At the company’s “cupping”
lab in  Chicago , he samples delicately flavored batches from the
birthplace of coffee before deciding what to ship to
Intelligentsia’s six cafes and 1,000 retailers.  The Ethiopia taste tests occur far less often than before,
says Vick. “We don’t want to buy anonymous coffee,” says Geoff
Watts, an  Intelligentsia  vice president. The no-name beans he is
referring to trade on the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange, an effort
to improve farm markets that also poses a serious problem for
U.S. coffee dealers who seek out coffee the way Manhattan wine
merchants track down the best Bordeaux, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Sept. 5 issue.  While the  United Nations  estimates that 3.2 million people
face  starvation  in bordering Somalia,  Ethiopia  is expanding its
commodities exchange to improve its own food-distribution
system. Public trading of crop contracts, which Americans have
through the Chicago Board of Trade, creates transparent,
regulated markets that guarantee payment and encourage farmers
to earn more income from coffee and food crops. Successful
farming spurs the development of roads and communications
networks that will help Ethiopia feed itself and its famine-
prone region. The exchange fits into a much larger plan to
develop large-scale agriculture.  Modern Bourse  In its first three years the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange
has centralized the trading of coffee, sesame and navy beans in
a modern bourse where traders in colored jackets buy and sell as
screens flash prices for coffee from  New York , wheat and corn
from Chicago, and sesame from Nigeria, India and  Sudan .  Trading volume in the last fiscal year more than doubled to
504,000 tons. The exchange also is spurring farmers to grow
better-quality coffee, says Gashaw Kinfe Desta, who employs up
to 250 workers during the harvest on his Ethiopian farm.  Yet the changes have complicated the supply relationships
with merchants such as Intelligentsia and  Stumptown Coffee
Roasters  in  Portland ,  Oregon , that rely on “single-origin” and
“direct trade” coffee to sell to the most discerning
consumers. Ethiopia, the world’s seventh-biggest coffee
exporter, has always had a premium story to pitch: Legend holds
that a ninth-century goat herder first saw the wake-up potential
of the Coffea arabica plant when his charges grew frisky after
nibbling on the fruit.  Coffee’s Clout  Because coffee is such an important crop, the government
wants almost all of Ethiopia’s traded on its commodity exchange,
which would have neither the volume nor the clout to thrive if
coffee were excluded. The sensitivities of boutique Western
buyers are less of a concern, though Eleni Gabre-Madhin, chief
executive officer of the exchange, says she warned Prime
Minister Meles Zenawi, the country’s leader for the past 20
years, that “people are going to be screaming about this.”  The passage of what’s known as the Coffee Law bolstered the
ECX’s influence by requiring that most coffee sales go through
it or a government-approved cooperative. The law gave the
exchange authority to grade all Ethiopian coffee by quality and
trade it accordingly. In the process it curbed foreigners’
access to hundreds of small stations that had been processing
coffee cherries.  Without a Trace  These stations had sold to buyers from abroad who once
roamed the countryside, acquiring knowledge of their products so
intimate that “it added a considerable amount of value to the
coffee,” says Intelligentsia’s Watts. Now under the exchange
system “there’s a lot of mixing going on.” At that point,
“traceability“ -- the ability to guarantee that certain beans
came from one farm -- is lost, he says.  That isn’t an issue for mass-market buyers, such as
Northfield, Illinois-based  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT)  and J.M. Smucker Co.
of Orrville,  Ohio . The beans in a can of Kraft’s Maxwell House
coffee, for example, are identified on the label as a “South
Pacific Blend,” not from a particular farm or even country.
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s biggest specialty coffee company,
buys through the exchange, and its Ethiopia Sidamo blend hails
from the country’s sprawling southernmost region.  For buyers in the rarefied single-origin niche, a bean’s
terroir (the special characteristics conferred by the local soil
and climate) offers a marketing edge in the battle against
Starbucks. The branding power of such coffee is undermined by
Ethiopia’s soured relationship with artisan coffee companies,
say boutique chains. John Riopka, a principal owner of Discovery
Coffee in Victoria, B.C., says he dropped Ethiopia from his menu
of single-origin blends after the exchange opened.  Paying Farmers  Specialty buyers aren’t just worried about traceability.
The exchange makes it tougher for them to ensure growers are
getting paid, says Vick, of Intelligentsia. “Farmers who grew
the coffee aren’t being rewarded,” he says. “That’s sort of one
of the bottom lines of our business -- rewarding the people who
grew the coffee for their hard work.”  Gabre-Madhin says she’s focused on boosting the quality and
sales of all Ethiopian coffees. While boutique buyers are a tiny
fraction of the market, treating them well is “very important
from a symbolic standpoint because they make a lot of noise,”
she says. The ECX developed a grading system with help from the
Specialty Coffee Association of America that allows for
certification of coffee as organic, fair trade and rainforest
arabica. Gabre-Madhin says Starbucks has been testing a bar-
coding system developed with the exchange to make bags of beans
traceable to individual farms.  Trading-Pit Fans  The exchange has plenty of fans. Dinku Sileshi, general
manager of Chefa Dira General Business in  Addis Ababa , has been
selling to exporters for 17 years. He used to make his
transactions at auctions or in private contracts with buyers who
would sometimes default on payments or be slow in fulfilling
their end of a deal.  Now he’s a floor trader, punctuating his bids with high-
fives to signal a deal has been made. He calls the ECX a
“seismic change.” Before, “we had to chase the exporters to
get our check,” he says. “Now we can buy and get the money
tomorrow.”  Gabre-Madhin doesn’t want to ignore single-origin coffee.
It’s about 1 percent of exports, she says, but it could be much
more. “It pulls up the price of everything,” she says. “It’s
like the $500 bottle of wine.”  By mixing beans, though, the exchange instead is creating
the equivalent of a French vat of blended grapes, says Stefan
Hersh, co-owner of  Buzz: Killer Espresso  coffee shop in Chicago.
Says Hersh: “It’s a big, nasty cuvée.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net ;
 Leslie Patton  in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Blau in Washington at 
 rblau1@bloomberg.net . 