-- 
U.S. State 2nd Quarter Tax Revenue Rises 11.4%, Rockefeller Institute Says

-- B y   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-09-01T15:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/states-second-quarter-tax-revenue-rises-11-4-rockefeller-institute-says.html
U.S. state tax revenue grew at its
fastest pace in six years in the second quarter, led by personal
and corporate levies, as governments begin to recover from the
longest recession since World War II.  Revenue rose 11.4 percent from the same three months a year
earlier, according to a  report  today by the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government, which collected preliminary
data from 46 states. Revenue is still 7.8 percent lower than the
April-June period three years ago, the report said.  The gains were aided by temporary tax increases, one-time
fees and a low collection rate from which to improve, said Lucy Dadayan, an analyst at the Albany, New York-based institute.  “Fiscal pressures are easing,” she said in a telephone
interview. “But the long-term challenges are still there since
most states took temporary solutions during the recession to
generate revenue.”  U.S. states, which closed combined projected budget
deficits of $430 billion over the past three years, face an
additional $103 billion gap this year, according to a  June 17 
report from the Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy
Priorities.  Drag on Growth  Cuts in state and local government spending reduced U.S.
growth by 0.34 percentage point in the second quarter, after
slowing expansion by 0.23 percentage point in 2010 and 0.11
percentage point in 2009, the Commerce Department said in its
most recent  estimate  of second-quarter growth.  Second-quarter personal-income and corporate-tax revenue
rose by 16.5 percent each, while sales taxes rose 5.9 percent,
the Rockefeller report said.  Alaska ,  North Dakota ,  Illinois ,
Nebraska and  New York  had the steepest total tax increases, all
exceeding 20 percent, according to the report.  New Hampshire  was the only state where tax collections
decreased, the report found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net . 