-- 
Statoil Sees Acquisition Opportunities After Market Decline

-- B y   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-09-01T13:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/statoil-chief-sees-acquisition-opportunities-after-equity-oil-market-drop.html
Statoil ASA (STL)  is looking at
acquisitions and partnerships after a plunge in stock markets
created “opportunities,” company executives said.  “A market that’s volatile does create interesting
opportunities,” Chief Executive Officer  Helge Lund  said in a
phone interview yesterday. The company’s recent oil discoveries
off Norway “will make us a more attractive partner,” he said.  A four-week slump in global equities wiped out more than $8
trillion in stock values on concern global growth is slowing as
European leaders struggle to contain a sovereign debt crisis and
after a downgrade of  U.S. debt . Crude oil traded in  New York 
fell 7 percent last month.  “It’s too early to say whether this is just some
volatility that’s to be expected or if this is the beginning of
something dark and deep,” Chief Financial Officer Torgrim Reitan said today in a separate interview.  Statoil has over the past four years bought stakes in U.S.
shale gas licenses and a Canadian oil-sand company, as well as
sold part of a field in Brazil to  China ’s Sinochem Group. In
2007 it acquired the energy unit of Norwegian competitor  Norsk
Hydro ASA (NHY)  for about $28 billion and operates about 80 percent of
Norway’s petroleum production.  Reitan said the company is “well-positioned financially,
we’re well prepared for the crisis, but the crisis will also
provide opportunities.”  “Over the past 10 years we’ve used acquisitions of new
assets consciously in the development of our strategy to build a
critical mass,” Reitan said. “The  Gulf of Mexico  is a good
example of this, where we’re now the fourth-biggest license
holder and we haven’t reached that position just by
participating in licensing rounds, we’ve also bought us into
other’s licenses.”  Eyeing the Arctic  Statoil and competitors are expanding in unconventional
gas, harsh-environment and deepwater areas such as the Arctic,
off Brazil and in the Gulf of Mexico. The Norwegian company this
year made the biggest discovery off Norway since the 1980s and
also said it “cracked the code” after making an oil find in
the  Barents Sea , off Norway’s northern tip.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  this week announced it has replaced  BP
Plc (BP/)  in a partnership with Russia’s OAO Rosneft in the Arctic,
one of the last untapped oil frontiers. In exchange for access
to potentially billions of barrels of crude, Rosneft will get
stakes in Texas shale fields and U.S. deep-water projects.  Lund declined to comment on whether Statoil had sought to
reach a deal with Rosneft. “The Arctic is an area of interest
to Statoil, both because we believe there’s a large resource
potential there and also because we believe we have the
operational experience and the technology to explore and develop
the resources in those demanding areas,” he said.  Reitan said Statoil was also looking to expand in Brazil,
Angola and Indonesia.  ‘Considerable Interest’  This year’s discoveries have raised interest in Statoil’s
exploration, Reitan said. The company and  Lundin Petroleum AB (LUPE) 
have announced that two finds in the  North Sea  may be linked and
create a deposit with 500 million to 1.2 billion barrels of
recoverable oil, the biggest find off Norway since the 1980s.
Statoil earlier this year said its Skrugard prospect in the
Barents Sea may hold 250 million barrels of oil equivalent.  “We’ve seen a considerable interest in us within
exploration,” Reitan said. “The industry noticed what happened
recently, and that’s interesting, it could provide
opportunities.”  Statoil shares are down 8 percent this year, compared with
15 percent declines for larger competitors Total SA and  Eni SpA. (ENI) 
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company, has dropped
4 percent.  ‘Little Governance’  Lund said he expected the resuming of petroleum production
in Libya would take time and that the company had not been in
contact with rebel leaders fighting to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-
year regime. “It’s a country that right now has very little
governance and public institutions in place, so I would believe
that it would take a while before we get going” on oil and gas
production, he said.  Libya, home to Africa’s largest oil reserves, produced more
than 1.5 million barrels a day before the start of the civil war
in February. Statoil participates in production and exploration
at the Mabruk field, operated by  Total SA (FP) , and in the Murzuk
basin, operated by  Repsol YPF SA. (REP)  Statoil’s share in production
from the fields was 4,200 barrels a day prior to the conflict.  As rebels close on the remaining towns held by Qaddafi’s
forces, the international coalition that helped push out the
Libyan strongman is meeting in Paris today to discuss support
for reconstruction and a transition to democracy. Italy’s Eni
SpA has been in contact with rebel groups throughout the
conflict to ensure it doesn’t lose ground to French, U.K. and
U.S. petroleum companies, according to a person with knowledge
of the company’s strategy.  “We haven’t taken any such initiatives at this time,”
said Lund.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marianne Stigset in Oslo at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  