-- 
Stocks in U.S. Retreat as Treasuries Climb Before August Payrolls Report

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-09-01T20:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/stocks-rise-for-sixth-day-as-yen-weakens.html
U.S. stocks slid, halting a four-day
rally, Treasuries advanced and commodities declined as investors
turned their attention to tomorrow’s report on American jobs to
gauge the outlook for the economy.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.2 percent to
1,204.42 at 4 p.m. after surging 5.1 percent in the previous
four sessions. The gain in Treasuries drove 10-year yields down
nine basis points to 2.13 percent. The Dollar Index climbed for
a third straight day, its longest rally since June, while wheat,
corn and zinc led losses in raw materials.  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show payrolls
climbed by 68,000 in August following a 117,000 increase in
July, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Jan Hatzius and
Societe Generale SA’s  Brian Jones  lowered their jobs forecasts
today. Concern about the employment data overshadowed an
Institute for Supply Management report that showed growth in
U.S. manufacturing, defying economist forecasts for the first
contraction in two years.  “The data was pretty good, but to some degree that’s
backward-looking,” said James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate
strategy at Morgan Stanley in  New York , one of 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “I don’t think there are a lot
of people who are tremendously encouraged in general for the
outlook of the overall economy.”  Banks, Industrials  Gauges of financial and industrial companies led losses
among all 10 of the main industry groups in the  S&P 500 , falling
at least 1.5 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America
Corp., Caterpillar Inc. and Alcoa Inc. led declines in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average , which turned lower for the year after
yesterday erasing its 2011 loss.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. slid 3.5 percent as the Federal
Reserve Board announced an enforcement action against the bank
for a “pattern of misconduct and negligence” related to
residential mortgage servicing and foreclosure processing at its
former subsidiary Litton Loan Servicing LP. Goldman Sachs agreed
to pay penalties and write down $53 million of  mortgage loans  in
New York to gain approval for its sale of Litton Loan.  The S&P 500 plunged 18 percent from an almost three-year
high on April 29 through Aug. 8 as concern grew that the world’s
largest economy may relapse into a recession and Europe will
fail to contain its debt crisis. The retreat was led by
companies most-sensitive to the economy, including financial
firms, industrial manufacturers and commodity producers. The
index rebounded 8.9 percent from Aug. 8 through yesterday after
its valuation slid to 12.2 times reported earnings of its
companies, the cheapest since the  bull market  began in 2009.  Bond Yields  Thirty-year Treasury yields sank 11 basis points to 3.50
percent. U.S. debt yields fluctuated between gains and losses
earlier after the ISM factory index fell less than forecast in
August to 50.6, U.S. initial jobless claims decreased by 12,000
to 409,000 last week and European manufacturing shrank more than
initially estimated in August.  Ten-year yields declined 57 basis points last month, the
most since a 71 basis-point drop in December 2008. The yield
slid to a record low of 1.97 percent on Aug. 18. Treasuries
handed investors a return of 2.8 percent in August, the best
month since December 2008, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  The growth in manufacturing tempered concern about the
economic slowdown and dimmed prospects for more monetary
stimulus in the form of bond purchases by the  Federal Reserve .
The ISM report contrasted with Fed data in August showing
manufacturing slowed in the New York, Philadelphia and Richmond,
Virginia, regions. Minutes from the Fed’s Aug. 9 meeting
released this week showed some policy makers urged action to
stimulate a sluggish economy, leading to speculation the central
bank may consider additional measures to boost the economy.  ‘Very Important’  “If we’re not going to get a lot of extra bad information
between August and September, then the Fed is probably not going
to do more in September,” said  Jens Nordvig , a managing
director of currency research in New York at Nomura Holdings
Inc. “That’s why this is potentially very important.”  The dollar advanced versus 10 of 16 major peers,
appreciating 1.6 percent versus the Brazilian real and 0.7
percent against the euro. Wheat, corn and zinc declined more
than 2.3 percent to lead losses in 21 of 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI Index.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.6 percent after
tumbling 11 percent in August, its largest monthly retreat since
October 2008. Royal Bank of Scotland Plc soared 8.2 percent
following a report that U.K. lawmakers may delay a regulatory
overhaul of lenders. Nokia Oyj gained 5.2 percent as Mosaid
Technologies Inc. bought a portfolio of patents from the biggest
mobile phone maker by volume.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  