-- 
Swedish Krona Weakens as Shrinking Manufacturing Tempers Outlook for Rates

-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n   a n d   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-09-01T15:32:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/swedish-krona-weakens-as-shrinking-manufacturing-tempers-outlook-for-rates.html
Sweden’s krona weakened against the
dollar after a report showed manufacturing shrank for the first
time in two years, reducing demand for the nation’s assets.  The Swedish currency fell for this fourth time in five days
against  Norway ’s krone. Swedbank AB’s manufacturing index, based
on responses from about 200 purchasing managers, slid to 48.7 in
August from 50.1 the prior month. Analysts forecast 49.8,
according to a Bloomberg survey. A reading above 50 signals
expansion. A Credit Suisse index predicts the central bank will
cut  interest rates  over the next 12 months.  “The Swedish number was below expectations,” said Richard Falkenhall, a currency strategist at SEB AB in  Stockholm . “We
should see the krona weaken. We expect the Riksbank to stay on
hold at the next meeting. The interesting thing will be to watch
the rate path. They have to revise it lower.”  The krona depreciated 0.7 percent to 6.3883 per dollar at
4:06 p.m. in  London . It dropped 0.1 percent against the
Norwegian krone to 1.1837.  Traders are betting the Riksbank will lower interest rates
by 34 basis points over the next year, according to a Credit
Suisse index based on swaps. A month ago the index was
predicting an increase of 26 basis points.  The central bank, which raised its benchmark repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2 percent on July 5,
next meets to review policy on Sept. 7.  The Riksbank started providing interest rate forecasts in
2007, guiding the market with average estimates of the benchmark
repo rate in coming quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Keith Campbell  at 
 k.campbell@bloomberg.net  