-- 
Swiss Economy Grows at Weakest Pace Since ’09 as Strong Franc Cuts Exports

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 
2011-09-01T08:39:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/swiss-economic-growth-weakened-in-second-quarter-led-by-exports-slump.html
The Swiss economy expanded in the
second quarter at the weakest pace since emerging from a 2009
slump as the franc’s appreciation sparked a drop in exports and
companies cut spending.  Gross domestic product rose 0.4 percent from the first
quarter, when it increased 0.6 percent, the State Secretariat
for Economic Affairs in Bern  said  today. That’s in line with the
median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey and
the worst performance since the economy returned to growth in
the third quarter of 2009. Foreign sales slumped 1.3 percent
from the first quarter, when they rose 3.4 percent, and
investment dropped 2 percent, down from a 1.1 percent gain.  Switzerland ’s economy is cooling as the franc’s 8 percent
ascent against the euro this year undermines exports just as
global growth weakens. Manufacturing growth slowed last month,
the KOF economic barometer fell and the central bank said that
the economic outlook “deteriorated substantially.”  Swiss exporters have “to digest the brutal appreciation of
the franc,”  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group in
Munich, wrote in an e-mailed note. “Despite showing an
impressive resilience so far, the economy may undergo a strong
deceleration in the second half of the year.”  Construction Slump  The franc was little changed after the report, trading at
1.1453 versus the euro at 10:37 a.m. in Zurich, up 1.2 percent
on the day. It reached a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9. Versus the
dollar, the franc was at 80.14 centimes.  Consumer spending  rose 0.2 percent from the first quarter,
when it increased 0.1 percent, today’s report showed.
Construction spending slumped 2.5 percent in that period and
equipment investment declined 1.5 percent. Imports slipped 1.7
percent from the first quarter, when they rose 1.8 percent.  In the 17-member euro region, Switzerland’s largest export
market, growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter, its
worst performance since a 2009 recession.  Germany ’s economic
expansion weakened to 0.1 percent in the second quarter from 1.3
percent in the first as households cut spending.  Adding to signs of slowdown, the Procure.ch Purchasing
Managers’ Index fell to the lowest in two years in August and
retail sales growth weakened in July, two reports showed today.  Swiss Recession  The economy may struggle to gather strength in the current
quarter as companies struggle with faltering global demand and
the stronger franc.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest
cement maker, said last month that profit may not grow this year
on a “flat” U.S. market. Demand for construction from European
government was “subdued,” it said.  “Weakening global demand and the franc’s strength are
showing their impact on the economy,” said  David Kohl , deputy
chief economist at Julius Baer Group in  Frankfurt . “If the
currency stays at its current levels, Switzerland might slip
into a recession next year.”  The Swiss central bank lowered borrowing costs to zero and
boosted liquidity to the money market last month to help weaken
the currency. The government pledged 870 million francs ($1.1
billion) yesterday to help counter the effects of what it called
the franc’s “massive overvaluation.”  The  Swiss National Bank , led by Philipp Hildebrand, will
hold its next monetary policy assessment on Sept. 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  