-- 
Swiss Stocks Overcome Franc With Lowest Prices Since 2007

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-09-02T08:57:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/swiss-stocks-overcome-franc-with-valuations-lowest-since-2007.html
Stocks in  Switzerland , up the most
in 15 months last week, may extend gains as investors speculate
the country’s drug- and foodmakers will boost earnings even
after the franc reached a record high.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 15 percent since slipping to a
two-year low on Aug. 10, more than double the 7.1 percent rally
in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index of the biggest euro-region companies
through yesterday. The increase narrowed the gauge’s loss to 4.4
percent in August, the smallest decline among 18 western
European markets infected by the crisis that drove the Euro
Stoxx 50 down 14 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Swiss shares are climbing even as companies from  Swatch
Group AG (UHR)  to  Lonza Group AG (LONN)  say gains in the franc are crimping
profits.  Andrea Williams  at Royal London Asset Management and
David Herro of Harris Associates LP are betting valuations
compensate for the risk that the  Swiss National Bank  succeeds in
weakening the franc and erases stock returns, or that it fails
and an appreciating currency shrinks the economy.  “The Swiss stock market still has a safe-haven status as
it is seen to have no exposure to the European debt crisis,”
Williams, a  fund manager  who helps oversee about $1 billion
including Swiss stocks, said in a phone interview last week.
“Swiss companies will be hit by the strong franc but, because
of the degree of unrest in  Europe , the positive will outweigh
the negative for investors.”  Debt Crisis  The debt crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009 has triggered
365 billion euros ($520 billion) in emergency bailout loans,
exposed cracks in the euro’s architecture and rattled markets
around the world. The franc strengthened to a record on Aug. 9
after yields on  government bonds  in Italy and  Spain  surged to
the highest ever amid speculation the nations will default.  Swiss stocks attract investors in times of increased
uncertainty because earnings at the country’s biggest companies
aren’t tied to economic growth, according to Jon Cox, head of
Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the world’s largest foodmaker, accounts for 26 percent of the
SMI’s weighting, while drugmakers  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  and  Novartis
AG (NOVN)  make up another 32 percent.  From its all-time high of 4,557.57 on July 16, 2007, the
Euro Stoxx 50 fell 60 percent through March 2009, compared with
a retreat of 55 percent in the SMI. Nestle, Roche, Novartis and
four other companies in the 20-member SMI have risen since the
Euro Stoxx 50 reached its 2011 peak on Feb. 18, compared with
six equities in the gauge of euro-area shares, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  The SMI dropped 2.7 percent to 5,383.79 at 10:53 a.m. in
Zurich today.  ‘Defensive Stocks’  “In the current environment, defensive stocks such as
Nestle are the better performers as they aren’t so exposed to
the macroeconomic situation,” Cox said in a phone interview.  Profits at SMI companies are forecast to increase 15
percent in 2012 compared with 9.6 percent for the Euro Stoxx 50,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  KOF Swiss Economic
Institute  estimates Swiss gross domestic product will grow 2.8
this year and 1.9 percent in 2012, while the  European Central
Bank  expects the euro-region economy to expand about 1.9 percent
in 2011 and 1.7 percent the following period.  Swiss stocks are cheap, according to Harris Associates’
Herro. The SMI’s valuation fell to 12.9 times its companies’
reported earnings on Aug. 8, the lowest in four years, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Not Permanent’  “We choose stocks based on value,” said Herro, whose fund
owns Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and Glattbrugg,
Switzerland-based Adecco SA, the world’s largest provider of
temporary staffing. “We are overweight in Swiss stocks. The
strong currency has hurt earnings, but it’s not permanent.”  Royal London’s Williams said she has shares of Nestle,
Roche, Novartis and Swatch, as well as the largest banks,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and Credit Suisse. They have low debt and “reasonable”
dividend yields, she said.  The ratio of net debt to earnings before interest,
taxation, depreciation and amortization for companies in the SMI
is 2.85, compared with 8.46 for the Euro Stoxx 50, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Swiss index’s dividend yield is
2.7 percent, compared with 4.9 percent for the Euro Stoxx 50.  UBS and Credit Suisse’s net holdings of Portuguese,
Italian, Irish, Greek and Spanish sovereign debt amounted to
about 1.69 billion francs ($2.1 billion) and 400 million euros,
respectively, at the end of June, according to their second-
quarter reports. That compares with 31 billion euros for Paris-
based BNP Paribas SA and 5.9 billion pounds ($9.5 billion) for
Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London .  Strengthening Franc  The franc strengthened 28 percent against the euro from
April 6 to Aug. 9, almost reaching parity with the single
European currency. It has since depreciated 11 percent after the
Swiss National Bank stepped up its fight to counter what it
called a “massive overvaluation” by boosting liquidity for the
first time since 2008.  The currency’s decline from the peak nearly wiped out the
SMI’s 11 percent gain when converted in euros, and overseas
investors may suffer more if the central bank succeeds in
weakening the franc further.  With exports contributing about half of Switzerland’s gross
domestic product, the currency appreciation is hurting earnings.
Analysts have reduced their forecasts for earnings growth at SMI
companies this year to 12 percent from 18 percent at the start
of July, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Erode Market Share  Swatch must accept declining profitability because boosting
prices would erode market share, Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said in an interview with Swiss newspaper SonntagsZeitung
on July 31. Basel, Switzerland-based Lonza, the world’s biggest
maker of drug ingredients, reported a drop in first-half profit
on July 27, saying earnings are “under substantial pressure”
from the franc.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement maker, fell
the most in more than two years in Zurich trading on Aug. 18
after profit declined more than analysts estimated due to the
strong franc. Second-quarter net income dropped 13 percent to
347 million francs from a year earlier as currency effects
shaved 916 million francs off sales.  For John Plassard, director at Louis Capital Markets in
Geneva, concern about European debt trumps other considerations.  “As long as there is a crisis in the  euro zone  and
Switzerland manages to keep the unemployment level low and
sustain growth, the country, along with its currency, will
remain a safe investment haven,” Plassard said. “And I believe
that the crisis in the euro area will worsen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  