-- 
U.K. Regulator Wins Order in Second ‘Layering’ Market-Abuse Case

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-09-01T15:19:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-k-regulator-wins-order-in-second-layering-market-abuse-case.html
The U.K. financial regulator won an
order barring a Swiss asset-management firm from using
“layering” to manipulate shares, the second penalty this week
involving the practice compared to high-frequency trading.  Judge Guy Newey in  London  yesterday granted a temporary
injunction against Da Vinci Invest Ltd. and extended a previous
asset freeze on individuals at the firm. Andrew George, a lawyer
for the Financial Services Authority, said senior management at
the U.K.-registered firm was aware of irregularities in trading.  Illegal profit from the layering, in which traders place
large orders they have no intention of allowing to go through,
may have been 1 million pounds ($1.6 million), the FSA said in a
statement today. The regulator yesterday said it fined Swift
Trade Inc. 8 million pounds in a case involving layering.  “This injunction shows that the FSA will take swift and
decisive action to protect the integrity of U.K. markets,”
Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting director of enforcement and
financial crime, said in a statement. “These companies engaged
in repeated cross-platform market manipulation, which the FSA
will not tolerate.”  Unterageri, Switzerland-based  Da Vinci  provides alternative
investment products to wealthy individuals and institutional
investors, according to its website. The FSA said four traders
were responsible for the market abuse.  No Repeats  Hendrik Klein, the chief executive officer of Da Vinci,
opposed the injunction at the hearing yesterday, saying whatever
had happened in the past, it wouldn’t be repeated.  “I don’t want to risk being in front of a U.K. court
again,” Klein said. He had been hurt by the asset freeze and
wasn’t able to hire lawyers, he told the judge.  Klein said he had funded four Hungarian traders and hadn’t
investigated their trades. The pattern of activity identified by
the FSA was similar to so-called high frequency trading, he
said.  The FSA has said that Da Vinci has “legitimate business”
in  Switzerland .  Investors have “suffered for many years from market abuse
scams run from overseas which escape the regulatory net,” said
 Simon Morris , a lawyer at law firm  CMS Cameron McKenna  in
London.  “By taking this decisive action the FSA has shown that
it has the will and the resources to both reach and halt abusive
trading schemes wherever based.”  The case is: The Financial Services Authority v. Da Vinci
Invest Limited & Ors, 11-02409.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  