-- 
U.K. House Prices Decline Most in 10 Months Amid Slowdown, Nationwide Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T11:02:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-k-house-prices-decline-the-most-in-10-months-nationwide-says.html
U.K. house prices fell the most in
10 months in August as a slowing economic recovery threatens to
undermine demand,  Nationwide Building Society  said.  The average cost of a home dropped 0.6 percent to 165,914
pounds ($269,800) from July, the Swindon, England-based
customer-owned lender said in an e-mailed report today. From a
year earlier, values were down 0.4 percent.  While a shortage in the supply of homes for sale and
record-low Bank of England  interest rates  have supported prices,
the housing market is struggling to gain momentum as banks
restrict lending and Britons’ spending power is eroded by
inflation. The British Chambers of Commerce cut its economic
growth forecast today as the U.S. recovery slows,  Europe ’s debt
crisis escalates and Britain’s government implements the biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II.  “We continue to expect  house prices  to move sideways or
drift modestly lower over the remainder of 2011, although we
recognize that the downside risks have increased,” Nationwide
Chief Economist Robert Gardner said in the report. “The major
risk for the housing market is that weak economic growth could
lead to a further deterioration in the labor market.”  U.K. consumer sentiment fell for a third month in August as
Britons grew more pessimistic about the economy, a report from
GfK NOP Ltd. yesterday showed. An index of sentiment slipped 1
point from July to minus 31, while a gauge of households’
expectations for the economy over the coming 12 months fell 4
points to minus 31, the lowest in six months, GfK said. Jobless
claims increased the most in more than two years in July.  BCC Forecast  The  Bank of England  left its benchmark interest rate at 0.5
percent last month and held its bond-purchase plan at 200
billion pounds. The central bank will keep the rate on hold
until August 2012, when it will raise it by 25 basis points, BCC
Chief Economist  David Kern  said in an e-mailed statement today.
The London-based lobby group said in May that the bank would
increase the rate this year.  The BCC sees U.K. gross domestic product rising 1.1 percent
this year and 2.1 percent in 2012, cutting a June projection for
1.3 percent and 2.2 percent respectively.  Data today showed British manufacturing shrank the most in
more than two years in August as demand from domestic and
overseas customers weakened. A gauge by  Markit Economics  and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  fell to 49, the
lowest in 26 months, from 49.4 in July. A level below 50
indicates contraction. New orders fell the most in almost 2 1/2
years and employment declined for the first time in 17 months.  “Given that our key export markets in the U.S. and the
 euro zone  are under more pressure, the recoveries are more
fragile than we thought, then clearly the risks to the U.K.
economy are increasing, and that does pose some risks to the
housing market,” Gardner said in an interview with Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg Television’s “Countdown” program today.
“It’s going to take a long time for demand for housing to pick
up significantly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  