-- 
U.K. Manufacturing Shrinks Most in More Than Two Years as Orders Decline

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T14:36:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-k-manufacturing-shrinks-most-in-more-than-two-years-as-orders-decline.html
U.K. manufacturing shrank the most
in more than two years in August as demand from domestic and
overseas customers weakened.  A gauge by  Markit Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of
Purchasing and Supply  fell to 49, the lowest in 26 months, from
49.4 in July, according to an e-mailed report in London today.
That matched the median forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey. A level below 50 indicates contraction. New orders
fell the most in almost 2 1/2 years and employment declined for
the first time in 17 months.  Manufacturers said the drop in demand was due to weaker
domestic and export sales and “rising global economic
uncertainty.” While data today showed U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded in August, figures from  Europe  and  Asia 
showed a broader factory slowdown may be unfolding.  “The sudden and substantial drop in new export orders is
particularly worrisome,” Markit economist Rob Dobson said in a
statement. “As consumer and business confidence are slumping
both at home and abroad, it is hard to see where any near-term
improvement in demand will spring from.”  The pound fell against the dollar and traded at $1.6135 as
of 3:34 p.m. in  London , down 0.7 percent from yesterday.  Price Pressures  The pace of increases in input and output prices eased in
August, Markit said. Input costs rose at the slowest pace for 20
months, while factory-gate prices posted their smallest increase
since November.  The drop in manufacturing employment, the first in 17
months, suggests producers are “increasingly cautious in their
outlook and seeking to cut costs where possible,” Dobson said.  The British Chambers of Commerce lowered its U.K. growth
forecast today as the U.S. recovery slows, Europe’s debt crisis
weighs on the economy and Britain’s government implements the
biggest fiscal squeeze since World War II. Separate reports this
week showed consumer sentiment fell for a third month in August
and  house prices  dropped the most since October.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee is holding
off raising  interest rates  from a record low of 0.5 percent as a
faltering economic recovery outweighs the risk of inflation that
is more than double its target. The central bank will keep the
rate on hold until August 2012, when it will raise it by 25
basis points, BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said today. The
London-based lobby group had previously forecast that the bank
would increase the rate this year.  U.S. Manufacturing  The BCC sees U.K. gross domestic product rising 1.1 percent
this year and 2.1 percent in 2012, down from a June projection
for 1.3 percent and 2.2 percent respectively.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in August, showing
that the two-year economic recovery may be sustained. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to 50.6
last month, the lowest level since July 2009, from 50.9 in
August, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. Economists
projected the gauge would drop to 48.5, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  The report contrasts with other national and regional
factory surveys published today that showed manufacturing shrank
in the euro area, Russia and  Taiwan  last month, while growth
slowed in  Switzerland . A gauge of the industry in  China  hovered
near its weakest point in 29 months as exports declined.  “With key trading partners slowing into the second half of
2011, that raises the real risk of sharply weaker manufacturing
production,” said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London. “With U.K. consumers also struggling against the
onslaught of higher inflation, fiscal tightening and slow
earnings growth, it all adds up to a scenario for a further
deterioration in U.K. growth prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  