-- 
U.K. Flies Banknotes to Libya to Ease Cash Shortage

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-09-01T01:20:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-k-flies-banknotes-to-libya-to-ease-cash-shortage-correct-.html
(Corrects amount delivered in first paragraph of story
first published on Aug. 31. See EXTRA for more on the Libyan
conflict.)  Britain’s Royal Air Force flew 280
million dinars ($233 million) to Benghazi today to help end a
shortage of cash after rebels ousted  Muammar Qaddafi  from
Tripoli, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said in an e-mailed
statement.  The amount is part of 1.86 billion dinars printed in the
U.K. that was frozen under a United Nations ruling. Delivery of
the remaining funds will be made shortly, the FCO statement
said.  The flight followed the decision by the  United Nations
Security Council  in  New York  yesterday to approve the U.K.’s
request to release the cash so it could be returned to the
Central Bank of  Libya . The step needed the support of all 15
council members as an exemption to UN sanctions on Libya and
came after Russia and  China  lifted their objections.  “This represents another major step forward in getting
necessary assistance to the Libyan people, building on the
remarkable progress in recent days,” the U.K. Foreign Office
said in a statement after the UN decision. “These banknotes,
which were frozen in the U.K. under UN sanctions, will help
address urgent humanitarian needs, instill confidence in the
banking sector, pay salaries of key public-sector workers and
free up liquidity in the economy.”  The U.K. stopped the export of the notes, which had been
produced in Britain, on Feb. 27. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said in March that the money, which also included
coins produced by  The Royal Mint , would be returned to the
Libyan people once Qaddafi was ousted.  “This is not money we seize, this is money we freeze,
we’re able to hand it back to the Libyan people when Qaddafi
leaves,” Osborne told Sky News television on March 6.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net 
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  