-- 
U.K.’s Cable Says Government Expects Manufacturing to Grow

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-09-01T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-k-s-cable-says-government-expects-manufacturing-to-grow.html
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable
discusses the government’s strategy for manufacturing within its
economic policy. He made the comments in an interview yesterday.  On the government’s strategy for manufacturing:  “We are trying to rebalance the economy, concentrating on
exports and business investment, and manufacturing is a key part
of all that. We’ve had a long period of absolute and relative
decline in British manufacturing, particularly in employment --
we’re trying to reverse that, building on things like high-value
activities, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, motor vehicles,
aerospace, where Britain’s got world-beating companies.  ‘‘The qualification I always make when we talk about
manufacturing is that there’s a difference between manufacturing
today and manufacturing a generation ago. These days a lot of
manufacturing value added is intangible, it’s intellectual
property, its design, its IT, the borderlines between
manufacturing and services these days are pretty porous.”  On having a target for the share of GDP from manufacturing:  “I don’t think setting targets is the way we operate,
we’re not a planned economy, but we’d certainly expect that to
increase.  ‘‘Manufacturing is particularly crucial in this
rebalancing. All the evidence shows that of all the sectors in
the economy, that’s the one that’s most export oriented and has
the highest productivity and highest R&D elements.  ‘‘You can’t have one sector, albeit an important one, which
the economy is totally dependent on. We’ve already made that
mistake with banking. The problem is, where else is the growth
going to come from? It’s going to be difficult to expand
domestic consumption rapidly because we have this overhang of
household indebtedness, its going to be difficult for the
government to expand, because we have the public finances
problem.  ‘‘If growth is going to come, it’s going to come from a
combination of exports and business investment. And
manufacturing is the best sector when we’re talking about export
growth.”  On the slowdown in Britain’s key export markets:  “It’s certainly true that several of those countries are
hitting an economic slowdown, but Britain is only 2 percent of
the world economy, so we’re looking to increase market share.  ‘‘We have a highly competitive  exchange rate  that makes it
possible to look for expansion in market volumes in even
relatively slow growing markets. We’re trying to focus in
particular on the rapid growth economies, the big emerging
economies, the BRICs, that’s where a lot of the commercial
diplomacy efforts have gone, and we’re trying to help with
things like export finances.  ‘‘We realize we’ve been relatively weak in exports by small
companies relative to say  Germany , so we’re trying to
concentrate the efforts of U.K. Trade & Investment and export
credits on that sector. It’s the SME sector that’s going to
produce the employment.”  On removing regulation for manufacturing:  “We would expect to make very substantial deregulation in
that area. But you can’t get rid of everything, because when you
talk about factories, you’ve got legitimate concerns on safety
and health conditions and those have to be protected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  