-- 
U.S. Consumer Confidence Slumps With Economic Outlook in Bloomberg Index

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-09-01T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-consumer-comfort-falls-as-confidence-in-economy-slumps.html
Consumer confidence  declined last
week as sentiment about the  U.S. economy  slumped to the second-
lowest level in two years.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.1 in the
week to Aug. 27 compared with a minus 47 reading the previous
period. The gauge dropped to a record low among the lowest-
income Americans.  Unemployment above 9 percent, limited wage growth and a
volatile stock market are deflating consumers’ moods, posing a
threat to the household spending that accounts for 70 percent of
the world’s largest economy. The report showed confidence among
homeowners was close to an all-time low as property values
remain depressed.  “Since peaking in February earlier this year, consumer
sentiment has steadily declined, mostly due to the lagged impact
of rising gasoline and food prices, as well as flat wages,”
said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York . “The decline in consumer sentiment will likely curb the
appetite of consumers to continue spending at levels observed in
July.”  Another report today showed first-time applications for
jobless benefits decreased by 12,000 to 409,000 in the week
ended Aug. 27 as the influence of the strike at Verizon
Communications Inc. waned, Labor Department figures showed.  Treasuries rose and stocks fell after the report. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.1 percent to 1,217.65 at
9:34 a.m. in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note
fell to 2.20 percent from 2.22 percent late yesterday.  Other Measures  Other measures of sentiment have also shown Americans are
downbeat. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index
of consumer sentiment plummeted in August to the lowest level
since November 2008. The Conference Board’s index of confidence
last month plunged to the lowest level in more than two years.  The Bloomberg comfort index has been stuck below minus 40,
the level associated with recessions or their aftermath, since
the end of February. Last week’s figure is close to the minus 54
reading in January 2009, which matched the worst in the history
of the series dating back to 1985.  “The poor, in particular, are suffering,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. “But
others likewise are suffering, if not as severely.”  For those making less than $15,000 a year, the comfort
index dropped to minus 90.6, the worst reading for any group
since record-keeping began in 1990. Confidence of Americans aged
65 and over dropped to the second-lowest in 18 years.  Average This Year  The overall gauge, which began December 1985, has averaged
minus 45.2 this year, compared with minus 45.7 for all of 2010
and minus 47.9 in 2009, the year the last recession ended, the
report showed.  The comfort survey showed declines in all three of the
subcomponents. The index of Americans’ views of the economy fell
to minus 87.3 last week from minus 84.3. Ninety-four percent of
those surveyed had a negative view of the economy, matching the
high this year.  The gauge of personal finances dropped to minus 6.1 after a
minus 4.5 reading in the prior period. A measure of the buying
climate decreased to minus 54 from minus 52.4. Some 77 percent
said it was a bad time to buy.  Democrats are feeling more pessimistic as their confidence
gauge fell to minus 57.8, the lowest reading since September
2009. Sentiment among Republicans fell to minus 46.7, widening
the gap between the two parties to 11.1 points, compared with
10.6 points the previous week. Political independents’
confidence dropped to minus 44.1, from minus 42.8.  ‘Tough Audience’  “As the president attempts to shift the nation’s focus to
his job creation efforts in the coming weeks, he’ll face a tough
audience,” Langer said.  President Barack Obama yesterday requested Congress hold a
joint session on Sept. 7 so he can unveil his jobs proposals.
Obama’s plans include more infrastructure spending, tax
incentives to spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion
of the payroll tax credit and changes to  unemployment insurance 
to subsidize worker retraining.  “If you were advised to lean on one side or the other, I’d
say it’s more likely to be slightly more negative from a
sentiment perspective in consumers in the  United States ,” Glenn Murphy, chief executive officer of  Gap Inc. (GPS) , said in an Aug. 18
conference call with analysts. “Maybe the holiday season could
be slightly positive, but we’re not counting on it right now.”  A jobless rate at 9.1 percent is one reason Americans are
pessimistic.  Fed’s Bernanke  “Economic growth has, for the most part, been at rates
insufficient to achieve sustained reductions in unemployment,”
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said Aug. 26 at the
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , central bank symposium.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  