-- 
Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Contracted for First Time Since July 2009

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-01T11:28:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-manufacturing-probably-shrank-for-first-time-in-two-years.html
U.S. manufacturing probably shrank
in August for the first time in two years, raising the risk the
slowing recovery may lose one of its biggest sources of
strength, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s manufacturing index
fell to 48.5 last month from 50.9 in July, according to the
median estimate of 80 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The
dividing line between expansion and contraction is 50, a level
that the gauge last fell below in July 2009.  Slower global growth, volatile financial markets and the
debate over government budgets around the world have clouded the
outlooks of corporations and consumers. Manufacturers like La-Z-
Boy Inc. and  Toro Co. (TTC)  are gauging the strength of demand as
unemployment holds above 9 percent and companies delay expansion
plans.  “Manufacturers have taken a step back and are in kind of a
wait-and-see mode right now,” said  David Resler , chief
economist at Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York .
“Before they rush ahead or proceed with longer-range projects,
they want to get a clearer assessment of where they and the rest
of the world think the economy is headed.”  Figures from  Europe  and  Asia  show a global manufacturing
slowdown may be unfolding. A measure of Australian manufacturing
slumped in August to a more than two-year low, a gauge of the
industry in  China  hovered near its weakest point in 29 months as
exports declined, and factories in Europe contracted more than
initially estimated.  Range of Estimates  The Tempe, Arizona-based group will release the U.S. ISM
results at 10 a.m. today New York time. Estimates ranged from 44
to 52. A reading above 42.5 is generally consistent with an
expanding overall economy, the group says.  Other reports today may show firings eased and construction
picked up. A Labor Department report at 8:30 a.m. is projected
to show initial claims for unemployment insurance payments
dropped in the week ended Aug. 27, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey. At 10 a.m., economists project
the Commerce Department will report construction spending rose
0.2 percent in July.  Several regional factory surveys last month showed the
industry that led the economic recovery tempered production as
orders shrank. New York-area factories cut back in August for a
third-straight month, and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted in August by the most in more than two years.  Economy ‘Worse’  “The economy was relatively worse than we would have
expected or hoped and so that puts some pressure on all the
businesses,” Michael J. Hoffman, chairman and chief executive
officer at Toro, said on an Aug. 18 teleconference with
analysts. The Bloomington, Minnesota-based company makes
lawnmowers and golf-course maintenance equipment.  Since reaching an intraday high this year on April 29, the
Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index, which includes
Toro, has declined 20 percent, compared with an 11 percent drop
in the broader  S&P 500 .  Federal Reserve officials last month discussed a range of
ways to invigorate the recovery after the  U.S. economy  expanded
at 0.7 percent average annual pace in the first half of the
year, according to Federal Open Market Committee minutes
released Aug. 31. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Aug.
26 speech in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the central bank still
has tools to boost growth and that the economy will probably
improve in the second half of 2011.  While a weak dollar had provided incentive for customers
overseas to buy American-made goods, and raw material costs have
moderated, a slowing global economy has raised the risk export
growth will cool. Additionally, a lack of jobs and weakening
consumer confidence in the U.S. are reducing domestic demand.  Market Volatility  Shifting views on the economic outlook, along with the U.S.
losing its AAA credit rating at S&P earlier this month, have
also led to historical financial market volatility, which may
prompt manufacturers to curtail output.  The  S&P 500 Index (SPX)  fell or rose at least 4.4 percent in each
of the first four days of the week ended Aug. 12, unprecedented
consecutive swings in the American stock market, according to
data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and  Howard
Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  “It goes without saying that the volatility pervading in
the financial markets is unsettling to the consumer, and we
remain cautious given the macroeconomic environment,” Kurt
Darrow, president and chief executive officer at La-Z-Boy, said
on an Aug. 24 teleconference with analysts. The Monroe,
Michigan-based company makes residential and office upholstered
furniture.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  