-- 
U.S. Manufacturing Grew in August, Easing Concerns About Second Recession

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-09-01T20:15:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-manufacturing-index-shows-expansion-is-continuing-defying-forecasts.html
Manufacturing in the U.S.
unexpectedly expanded in August, allaying concern the world’s
largest economy is headed for another recession.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index fell to
50.6 last month from 50.9 in July, the Tempe, Arizona-based
group said today. Figures greater than 50 signal expansion.
Economists projected the gauge would drop to 48.5, according to
the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  Receding commodity prices and a recovery from setbacks
related to  Japan ’s natural disaster have helped keep U.S.
manufacturing from shrinking amid a global slowdown that’s
curbing overseas demand. Another report today showed consumer
sentiment declined to the second-lowest level in two years,
posing a threat to the household spending that accounts for 70
percent of the economy.  The manufacturing report is “one vote for dodging the
recession bullet, but we have to balance that on some of the
other votes coming in, most notably the bottom dropping out of
 consumer confidence  in August,” said Robert Dye, chief
economist at Comerica Inc. in  Dallas , one of three economists in
a Bloomberg News survey to predict last month’s expansion. “My
baseline forecast is for weak to moderate growth.”  The dollar rallied, Treasuries rose and U.S. stocks swung
between gains and losses, as the manufacturing report bolstered
optimism in the economy while dimming prospects for more
monetary stimulus from the  Federal Reserve .  Shares Fall  The Dollar Index, a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, increased 0.5 percent to 74.484 at 4:11 p.m. in New York.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 1.2 percent to 1,204.42 at
the 4 p.m. close in  New York  after rising as much as 0.9
percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell
to 2.13 percent from 2.22 percent late yesterday.  Data from  Europe  and  Asia  today pointed to a global
manufacturing slowdown. A gauge of the industry in  China  hovered
near its weakest point in 29 months as exports declined, and
factories in Europe contracted more than initially estimated.  “The fact that we remain in positive territory is pretty
remarkable and it shows the broader resilience across the
country,” Bradley Holcomb, chairman of the ISM’s factory
survey, said in a conference call with reporters. “We’re going
to have to see which direction this wants to go, and it’s going
to depend on news from  Washington  and from the economy over the
next few weeks.”  The ISM report showed orders shrank for a second month,
production contracted for the first time since May 2009 and
export bookings grew at the slowest pace since July 2009.  Confidence Hurt  Corporate and consumer confidence has been hurt by
political squabbling over lifting the nation’s debt limit and
the subsequent cut to the U.S. credit rating by  Standard &
Poor’s , which roiled equity markets. Regional reports from
Philadelphia and New York showing manufacturing contracted
contributed to last month’s 5.3 percent drop in the  S&P 500 .  “It goes without saying that the volatility pervading in
the financial markets is unsettling to the consumer, and we
remain cautious given the macroeconomic environment,” Kurt Darrow, president and chief executive officer of Monroe,
Michigan-based  La-Z-Boy Inc. (LZB) , a maker of living-room recliners,
said on an Aug. 24 teleconference with analysts.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.1 in the
week to Aug. 27, compared with a minus 47 reading the previous
period. The gauge dropped to a record low among the least-
affluent Americans.  Auto Sales  Consumers last month were willing to purchase big-ticket
items even as confidence waned. Sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
Chrysler Group LLC and Nissan Motor Co. beat analysts’ estimates
in August, industry data showed today.  A report from the Labor Department today showed first-time
applications for jobless benefits decreased by 12,000 to 409,000
in the week ended Aug. 27 as the influence of the strike at
Verizon Communications Inc. waned.  Estimates for the manufacturing index from 80 economists
ranged from 44 to 52. A reading above 42.5 generally indicates
an expansion in the overall economy.  Much of the gain in the overall index was driven by an
increase in the inventories gauge, which climbed to 52.3 from
49.3. The employment index fell to 51.8, the lowest since
November 2009, from 53.5 the prior month. The index of prices
paid fell to 55.5 from 59.  Fed Discussions  Fed officials last month discussed a range of ways to
invigorate the recovery after the economy expanded at a 0.7
percent average annual pace in the first half of the year,
according to Federal Open Market Committee minutes released Aug.
31.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in an Aug. 26 speech in
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , that the central bank still has tools to
boost growth and that the economy will probably improve in the
second half of 2011.  While a weak dollar has provided incentive for overseas
customers to buy American-made goods at the same time raw
material costs moderated, a slowing global economy has raised
the risk export growth will cool. Additionally, a lack of jobs
and weakening consumer confidence in the U.S. are reducing
domestic demand.  “The economy was relatively worse than we would have
expected or hoped and so that puts some pressure on all the
businesses,” Michael Hoffman, chairman and chief executive
officer at  Toro Co. (TTC) , said on an Aug. 18 teleconference with
analysts. The Bloomington, Minnesota-based company makes
lawnmowers and golf-course maintenance equipment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  