-- 
U.S. Asks Appeals Court to Vacate ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Military Ruling

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:58:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-asks-appeals-court-to-vacate-don-t-ask-don-t-tell-military-ruling.html
The U.S. asked a federal appeals
court to vacate as moot the ruling by a federal judge last year
that the military’s “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” ban on openly gay
and lesbian service members is unconstitutional.  A panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  heard the government’s
arguments today in  Pasadena ,  California . The judges last month
asked President Barack Obama’s administration to explain why the
appeal shouldn’t be dismissed after Congress repealed the 1993
law last year.  Obama, Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  and Navy Admiral Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, on July 22 signed
the certification attesting that the U.S. Defense Department is
prepared to repeal the ban. That certification ends enforcement
of “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” as of Sept. 20.  U.S. District Judge Virginia Phillips in Riverside,
California, ruled last year that the law establishing the policy
violated constitutionally protected rights to due process and
free speech. The appeals court delayed enforcement of the
judge’s order while the administration appealed her decision.  The U.S. said in a July 14 filing with the appeals court
that once repeal takes effect, there are no remaining
controversies in the lawsuit and the case becomes moot.  ‘Established Practice’  “Under the court’s established practice it would vacate
the district court’s judgment and global injunction, and remand
with instructions for the district court to dismiss the
complaint,” according to the filing.  The  Log Cabin Republicans , who brought the suit challenging
“Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” have said Phillips’s ruling should
not be lifted because it sets a precedent.  “It is mind-boggling that throughout this case, the Obama
administration has said repeatedly that it favors open military
service, yet it has fought us every step of the way and is now
appealing the court’s judgment in our client’s favor,” Dan Woods, a lawyer for the group, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  The case is Log Cabin Republicans v. U.S., 10-56634, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 