-- 
U.S. Second-Quarter Productivity Fell More Than First Estimated

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-09-01T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-second-quarter-productivity-fell-more-than-first-estimated.html
The productivity of U.S. workers
fell more than previously estimated in the second quarter,
pushing up labor costs after a record drop in 2010.  The measure of employee output per hour decreased at a 0.7
percent annual rate, the second straight quarterly drop and the
biggest since the last three months of 2008, revised figures
from the Labor Department showed today in  Washington . Expenses
per employee climbed at a 3.3 percent rate after a revised 6.2
percent jump in the first three months of the year.  Profits will get squeezed as efficiency falls and costs
climb, keeping companies reluctant to step up hiring and
delaying a sustained labor-market rebound. The data help explain
why a report tomorrow may show payrolls rose by 70,000 last
month, down from 117,000 in July, according to the median
forecast of economists.  “When productivity declines, you have less support for
growth,”  Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit Suisse
in  New York , said before the report. “It’s going to be harder
to increase profits. Companies could cut hours or workers or
possibly both.”  A separate report from the Labor Department showed
applications for  unemployment benefits  fell last week as the
influence of the strike at Verizon Communications Inc. waned,
showing the job market is making little headway more than two
years after the recession ended.  Jobless claims dropped by 12 to 409,000 in the week ended
Aug. 27. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg projected a drop to
410,000, according to the median forecast. The figure remains
higher than it was three weeks earlier, before the labor dispute
at Verizon pushed the numbers up.  Survey Results  Second-quarter productivity was projected to fall 0.5
percent, according to the median forecast of 47 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from declines of
0.1 percent to 1 percent.  Efficiency in the first quarter decreased at a 0.6 percent
pace, marking the first back-to-back drop since the third and
fourth quarters of 2008.  Unit labor costs, which are adjusted for efficiency gains,
were forecast to rise 2.4 percent, the survey median showed.  Among manufacturers, productivity decreased at a 1.5
percent rate in the second quarter, the biggest decrease since
the last three months of 2008.  Compared with the second quarter of 2010, productivity
increased 0.7 percent. Labor costs climbed 1.9 percent from the
year-earlier period.  Expenses Jump  The revised jump in labor expenses in the first quarter was
the biggest in three years and reflected income revisions issued
in last month’s report on gross domestic product.  Labor costs dropped 2 percent in 2010, the biggest decrease
since data began in 1948.  A lack of productivity gains and stagnant demand is
weighing on the job market.  Kelly Services Inc., a provider of temporary staffing
services, said its clients are neither scaling back nor planning
major increases in near-term hiring.  “It’s clear we have hit a soft patch, but the recovery has
not ground to a halt,” Carl T. Camden, chief executive officer
of the Troy, Michigan-based company, said on an Aug. 10
conference call. “Although the recovery is slow and somewhat
erratic, we believe it is sustainable.”  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1 percent annual pace
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
the Commerce Department reported on Aug. 26. Combined with the
0.4 percent rate in the first three months of this year, the
past two quarters were the weakest of the recovery that began in
mid 2009.  A few Federal Reserve policy makers favored more aggressive
action to stimulate the economy and trim unemployment, according
to minutes of their Aug. 9 meeting released this week. They will
more fully debate their options when they gather for a two-day
meeting this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
KELYA US <Equity> CN BN 