-- 
Refi ‘Hype’ Overstates Talks, Ginnie’s Tozer Says

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:24:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-mortgage-refinancing-hype-overstates-talks-ginnie-mae-s-tozer-says.html
Speculation that U.S. policy makers
will loosen refinancing rules for government-backed mortgages to
aid the economy is “getting way ahead of itself,” Ginnie Mae
President Ted Tozer said.  “It’s really disconcerting to hear all this hype that
something is imminent and that that’s something the markets are
trading off,” said Tozer, whose government-owned corporation
guarantees more than $1 trillion of mortgage-backed securities.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is taking into
account the potential “repercussions,” as officials consider
ways to aid consumers by stoking refinancing of debt insured by
 Fannie Mae ,  Freddie Mac  or the  Federal Housing Administration ,
Tozer said, based on discussions he’s had with them. The
speculation is “getting way ahead of itself, because at this
point, it’s all just research,” he said yesterday during an
interview at Bloomberg News headquarters in New York.  The $5.3 trillion market of securities guaranteed by Fannie
Mae, Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae, whose bonds are composed mostly
of FHA loans, slumped last month by the most relative to U.S.
Treasuries since after Lehman Brothers Holding Inc.’s collapse,
in part because of concern the U.S. will seek to expand
refinancing after loan rates fell to a record low 4.15 percent.  The housing debt, known as agency mortgage securities,
underperformed similar-duration U.S. government notes by 0.9
percentage point, the most since October 2008, according to
Barclays Capital index data. The average price reached a record
108.6 cents on the dollar on Aug. 10, before retreating to 107.7
cents yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  ‘Thoughtful People’  Mortgage-bond holders are damaged by refinancing when they
buy or own debt trading for more than face value, because their
money gets returned at par and they lose out on interest. A
broad refinancing program could reduce the attractiveness of a
market that helps finance more than 90 percent of new lending.  “People in the administration I’ve talked to understand
the context of walking the fine line of trying to help the
economy, without hurting the housing-finance system in the
future,” said Tozer. “They know there’s no silver bullet, they
know everything has repercussions, everything has a downside.
The administration is really conscientious. They’re thoughtful
people.”  Lenders’ ability to sell new mortgage bonds for more than
their face value helps consumers because it means that banks can
use higher  interest rates  to cover their expenses and third-
party closing costs without charging fees, said Tozer, who spent
more than 20 years at National City Corp.’s mortgage unit before
taking his current job last year at Ginnie Mae. The agency is
formally known as the Government National Mortgage Association.  Limited Tweaks  While the administration will probably make changes to its
Home Affordable Refinance Program, the tweaks may be limited and
less effective than they appear, according to analysts including
Amherst Securities Group LP’s  Laurie Goodman . That’s because
some potential moves would be costly for government-supported
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or difficult to implement, she said.  “While we believe a universal refinancing program is
unlikely, it is clear the HARP program has reached far fewer
people than hoped,” Goodman wrote yesterday in a report. “We
would expect to see measures to increase the effectiveness.”  The program was introduced in 2009 and has been used on
 about  840,000 loans, less than the administration’s initial
forecast of 4 million to 5 million. HARP is meant to help
borrowers who have been making on-time payments refinance even
if they have little or no equity in their homes.  Delinquent Borrowers  Changes last month to FHA and Ginnie Mae loan-modification
rules show compromises are possible that take the interests of
consumers and investors into consideration, Tozer said.  To help investors, Ginnie Mae wanted to limit the amount of
delinquent borrowers with loans that were quickly defaulting
after being taken out of its securities, modified and then
placed into new bonds. It went to the FHA with the idea of
requiring borrowers with reworked debt to go through three-month
trials before the modifications became official, he said.  The FHA, which also wanted to reduce re-default rates of
more than 50 percent, in response sought to create more
modifications among borrowers who weren’t yet delinquent, he
said. Bondholders could be damaged by the wider pool of loans
servicers would buy out of securities at face value to rework.  The result was rules that will allow more homeowners who
haven’t yet defaulted to get lower payments, including those who
have “net surplus income of less than 20 percent of total net
income,” according to an Aug. 15  notice . The modification
trials, which will leave loans within bonds until consumers
complete them or fail and reach foreclosure, are also being
required.  Ginnie Mae won’t tolerate servicers using the changes to
lower rates for consumers who haven’t experienced hardship and
could use a typical refinance, Tozer said. “From our
perspective it would be abusive to the spirit of the program,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 