-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Aug. 30 (Text)

-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 
2011-09-01T12:34:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-aug-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Summary:  Hurricane Irene brought widespread, locally excessive
rainfall to the mid-Atlantic and Northeast, while heat and
dryness maintained or worsened drought conditions across the
central and southern U.S.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast:  Hurricane Irene tracked northward
along the mid-Atlantic Coast into New England, dropping moderate
to heavy rain in some cases excessive rainfall  from eastern
North Carolina into New England.  Rain amounts tallied 4 to
locally more than 12 inches over eastern sections of North
Carolina,  Virginia ,  Maryland , most of  Delaware , and New England,
eliminating drought and lingering long-term dryness in one
sweep.  Some Abnormal Dryness (D0) and Moderate Drought (D1)
were maintained in central and southern sections of  North
Carolina , where precipitation was somewhat lighter (generally
less than 4 inches), and consequently long-term deficits
persist.  Showers (locally more than an inch) and improving
streamflows and soil moisture led to the removal of D1 from
western  New York  and a reduction of the coverage of D0, although
here, too, longer-term (90-day) rainfall was still locally less
than 50 percent of normal.  Farther inland, 60- to 90-day
precipitation continued to run less than 50 percent of normal
from eastern  West Virginia  into southwestern North Carolina,
with declining streamflows and soil moisture supporting an
increase of D0 and D1.  Southeast and Delta:  With Hurricane Irene passing well off the
southern Atlantic coast, generally dry, hot weather (2 to 5F
above normal) prevailed over much of the region.  However,
additional improvements in drought designation were noted in
eastern and southern  Florida , where favorable seasonal showers
continued.  Across northern Florida, mostly light showers (less
than one inch) did little to offset the100-degree heat; rain
will be needed soon in northern Florida to ensure drought
conditions do not rapidly worsen.   From western South Carolina
into  Georgia , Alabama, Tennessee, and Florida’s panhandle, sunny
skies and daytime highs approaching or exceeding 100F caused
drought to intensify.  Most notably, Extreme Drought (D3)
expanded across southern Georgia, the Florida Panhandle, and
central Alabama, reflecting streamflows that were approaching or
at historic lows, as well very low soil moisture and poor
vegetation health.  As of August 29, Georgia’s pasture and range
condition was rated 62 percent poor to very poor.  Similar
conditions were reported farther west, where Severe (D2) to
Exceptional (D4) drought expanded in southern portions the
Delta.  In the northern Delta, an area of light to moderate
showers (0.5 to 2.5 inches) kept drought from intensifying from
southern Missouri into central Arkansas and northern Louisiana.
In  Tennessee , Moderate Drought (D1) was increased in eastern
parts of the state, where streamflows were ranked in the 10th
percentile or lower.  The same held true in western Tennessee,
where D1 was likewise introduced.  Ohio Valley and Midwest:  Despite being one of the few locales
to experience near- to in some cases below-normal temperatures,
drought intensity increased over many primary growing areas.
Abnormally dry conditions have persisted over the past 60 days
from southeastern  Minnesota  into southern Wisconsin (locally
less than 50 percent of normal), with Abnormal Dryness (D0)
expanded to account for the lack of rainfall and declining soil
moisture.  More notably, 60-day precipitation has tallied less
than 25 percent of normal (locally less than 10 percent) from
southeastern Iowa into central  Illinois  and southern Indiana;
Severe Drought (D2) was added to areas with the greatest
precipitation departures and impacts.  Likewise, abnormal
dryness over the past 90 days (50 percent of normal or less) led
to a new D1 area in northeastern Minnesota.  In contrast 1 to
2.5 inches of rain in  Ohio  eased Abnormal Dryness in
northwestern portions of the state.  Northern and Central Plains: From the Dakotas and eastern
Montana into Nebraska and northern Kansas, scattered showers
mingled with pockets dryness, leading to generally small changes
in the current drought depiction.  Light to moderate rainfall
(0.75 to 2.0 inches) in northeastern Nebraska and southeastern
 South Dakota  resulted in small improvements in Abnormal Dryness
(D0) and Moderate Drought (D1). Showers (locally more than 2
inches) were reported in southwestern South Dakota and
northwestern Nebraska, although above-normal temperatures (highs
reaching into the lower 100s degrees F) offset the benefits of
the rain somewhat.  Short-term dryness and above-normal
temperatures (up to 9F above normal) in western Nebraska led to
the introduction of a small D0 area.  Short-term dryness (out to
60 days) has likewise been reported in eastern  Wyoming , and this
area will need to be monitored for developing drought.  On the
high Plains of Colorado, D0 was expanded slightly northeastward
due to a lack of rain over the past 30 to 60 days, low
Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI), declining soil
moisture, and an increasingly poor VegDri signal.  Southern Plains:   The beat goes on across the southern Plains.
In  Texas  and southern  Oklahoma , another week of above-normal
temperatures (up to 14F above normal, with highs eclipsing 110F)
and sunny skies further offset the benefits of early month
rainfall.   Consequently, drought intensified over many of the
remaining D2 and D3 areas (Severe to Extreme Drought), with the
vast majority of Texas and Oklahoma under Exceptional Drought
(D4).  As of August 29, pasture and range condition was rated 98
and 92 percent poor to very poor in Texas and Oklahoma,
respectively.  Further illustrating the heat and drought’s
devastating impacts, cotton  a crop that generally thrives in
hot, dry weather was rated 60 percent poor to very poor in Texas
and an astounding 92 percent poor to very poor in Oklahoma.
180-day rainfall deficits exceeded 14 inches in southwestern
Oklahoma and north-central Texas, and were locally in excess of
20 inches near Houston.  Farther east, scattered, mostly light
showers offered little if any relief from Severe (D2) to
Exceptional (D4) Drought from eastern Oklahoma into eastern and
far southern Texas.  Four Corners Region:  Drought relief over northeastern portions
of the region contrasted with an increase in drought designation
in southwestern locales.  Beneficial showers (1 to 2 inches)
further improved soil moisture in northern New Mexico as well as
southern and eastern Colorado;   consequently, the coverage of
Moderate (D1) to Extreme (D3) Drought was reduced in these areas
to reflect the most current Standardized Precipitation Indices
(3, 6, 9, and 12 month).  The coverage of Colorado’s Exceptional
Drought (D4) was virtually unchanged, with small modifications
made to account for the updated VegDri Index as well as the most
recent precipitation data.  Environs within the core D4 area are
still below 25 percent of normal precipitation over the past 180
days, although additional local analysis and input may lead to
changes in drought designation over the upcoming weeks.
Abnormal Dryness (D0) on the High Plains of Colorado was
expanded slightly northeastward due to a lack of rain over the
past 30 to 60 days, a low 3-month Standardized Precipitation
Index, declining soil moisture, and increasingly poor VegDri
Index.  In southern and western Arizona, expansion of Moderate
(D1) to Extreme (D3) drought was a reflection of a drier-than-
normal monsoon to date (less than 50 percent of normal rainfall
over the past 90 days).  Temperatures over southern and western
Arizona averaged 9 to 13F above normal during the past week,
exacerbating the impacts of the drier-than-normal weather.
Furthermore, Standardized Precipitation Indices on numerous
timescales (3 to 12 months) indicated developing or expanding
drought in western Arizona. Dryness has also increased in
central and southeastern portions of  Nevada  as well as much of
the Northwest, and these areas will need to be monitored closely
over the upcoming weeks.  Alaska,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico:  In Alaska, light showers
(mostly less than half an inch) and near-to below-normal
temperatures were reported, with no change made to the southern
Abnormally Dry (D0) area. In Hawaii, Moderate Drought (D1) was
expanded eastward on the Island of Lanai to reflect declining
pasture conditions and reports from the field.  There were no
changes made elsewhere in Hawaii.  On Puerto Rico, flood
recovery efforts following Hurricane Irene’s heavy rain
continued, with no dryness or drought concerns likely over the
upcoming weeks (or longer).  Looking Ahead:  The evolution and track of a developing tropical
disturbance in the  Gulf of Mexico  will be closely monitored.
This system - should it develop- could play a potentially large
role in whether portions of the southern or southeastern U.S.
experience much-needed drought relief over the upcoming week.
Elsewhere, a slow-moving cold front will generate showers from
the northern and central Plains into the Corn Belt and
Northeast, with some showers spilling south into Oklahoma and
Texas.  Out west, monsoon showers will persist in eastern
portions of the Four Corners region, while dry, increasingly
warm weather prevails from the Great Basin into the northern
Rockies and Northwest.   The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook for
September 6-10 calls for drier-than-normal conditions from the
central and northern Pacific Coast into the upper Midwest and
central Corn Belt.  Conversely, wetter-than-normal weather is
expected from the eastern Gulf Coast into the Northeast.  Below-
normal temperatures across much of the eastern U.S. will
contrast with warmer-than-normal weather from the Rockies to the
Pacific Coast.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  