-- 
U.S. August ISM Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 
2011-09-01T14:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-august-ism-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
manufacturing conditions from the Institute for Supply
Management.  August Manufacturing ISM Report On Business;  PMI at 50.6%; Employment and Inventories Growing;  Supplier Deliveries Slower;  New Orders and Production Contracting  DO NOT CONFUSE THIS NATIONAL REPORT with the various
regional purchasing reports released across the country. The
national report’s information reflects the entire  United States ,
while the regional reports contain primarily regional data from
their local vicinities. Also, the information in the regional
reports is not used in calculating the results of the national
report. The information compiled in this report is for the month
of August 2011.  Economic activity in the manufacturing sector expanded in
August for the 25th consecutive month, and the overall economy
grew for the 27th consecutive month, say the nation’s supply
executives in the latest Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by Bradley J. Holcomb, CPSM,
CPSD, chair of the Institute for Supply Management Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The PMI registered 50.6 percent, a
decrease of 0.3 percentage point from July, indicating expansion
in the manufacturing sector for the 25th consecutive month, at a
slightly slower rate. The Production Index registered 48.6
percent, indicating contraction for the first time since May of
2009, when it registered 45 percent. The New Orders and Backlog
of Orders Indexes edged up slightly from July, but both indexes
are indicating contraction in August at slower rates than in
July. The rate of increase in prices slowed for the fourth
consecutive month, dropping another 3.5 percentage points in
August to 55.5 percent. The overall sentiment is one of concern
and caution over the domestic and international economic
environment, which is affecting customers’ confidence and
willingness to place orders, at least in the short term.”  PERFORMANCE BY INDUSTRY  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 10 are reporting growth
in August, in the following order: Wood Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Paper Products;
Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; and Machinery. The six industries reporting
contraction in August -- listed in order -- are: Plastics &
Rubber Products; Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Apparel, Leather
& Allied Products; and Primary Metals.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING  “Earlier chemical price increases are beginning to soften.”
(Chemical Products) “Business is soft, confidence is down, and
we are cutting inventory and expenses.” (Machinery) “Exports
continue to be strong -- domestic weak.” (Computer & Electronic
Products) “Domestic sales are showing small improvements.
International sales are showing larger improvements.”
(Fabricated Metal Products) “Demand remains constant and strong.”
(Paper Products) “Current headwinds in the national and
international economic environment have increased uncertainty,
and are affecting our customers’ willingness to commit to high-
dollar equipment purchases.” (Transportation Equipment) “We
continue to post solid numbers, but the situation seems tenuous.”
(Plastics & Rubber Products) “Automotive business (represents 52
percent of our sales portfolio) continues to be strong. Core
business has pulled back slightly.” (Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products) “Sales continue to be sluggish.” (Furniture & Related
Products)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP/DOWN IN PRICE and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Aluminum (12); Aluminum Products; Butadiene; Caustic Soda;
Copper(b) (13); Copper Based Products (10); Corn; Diesel Fuel;
Electric/Electronic Components (2); Freight Rates; Glycol Ether;
Hydraulic Components/Motors; Paper; Rubber; Rubber Products (7);
Silver; Stainless Steel; and Steel(b) (12).  Commodities Down in Price  Cold Rolled Steel; Copper(b);  Natural Gas ; Plastic
Products; Plastic Resins; Polyethylene Resin; Polypropylene
Resin; and Steel(b) (4).  Commodities in Short Supply  Electric/Electronic Components (8); Hydraulic
Components/Motors/Pumps; and Titanium Dioxide.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  (b) Reported as both up and down in price.  AUGUST 2011 MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  PMI  Manufacturing continued its growth in August as the PMI
registered 50.6 percent, a decrease of 0.3 percentage point when
compared to July’s reading of 50.9 percent. The PMI registered
the lowest reading since July 2009, when it registered 49
percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates that the
manufacturing economy is generally expanding; below 50 percent
indicates that it is generally contracting.  A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of time,
generally indicates an expansion of the overall economy.
Therefore, the PMI indicates growth for the 27th consecutive
month in the overall economy, as well as expansion in the
manufacturing sector for the 25th consecutive month. Holcomb
stated, “The past relationship between the PMI and the overall
economy indicates that the average PMI for January through
August (56.8 percent) corresponds to a 5 percent increase in
real gross domestic product (GDP). In addition, if the PMI for
August (50.6 percent) is annualized, it corresponds to a 2.8
percent increase in real GDP annually.”  New Orders  ISM’s New Orders Index registered 49.6 percent in August,
which is an increase of 0.4 percentage point when compared to
the 49.2 percent reported in July. This is the second
consecutive month of contraction in the New Orders Index,
following 24 months of growth. The last time the index
contracted was in June of 2009, when the New Orders Index
registered 48.9 percent. A New Orders Index above 52.1 percent,
over time, is generally consistent with an increase in the
Census Bureau’s series on manufacturing orders (in constant 2000
dollars).  The seven industries reporting growth in new orders in
August -- listed in order -- are: Petroleum & Coal Products;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Paper Products; Fabricated
Metal Products; and Transportation Equipment. The seven
industries reporting decreases in new orders in August -- listed
in order -- are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Textile Mills; Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Machinery; Chemical
Products; Computer & Electronic Products; and Plastics & Rubber
Products.  Production  ISM’s Production Index registered 48.6 percent in August,
which is a decrease of 3.7 percentage points when compared to
the July reading of 52.3 percent. This is the first month of
contraction in the Production Index, following 26 months of
growth, and the lowest reading since May 2009 when it registered
45 percent. An index above 51 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Federal Reserve Board’s
Industrial Production figures.  The seven industries reporting growth in production during
the month of August -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather
& Allied Products; Paper Products; Fabricated Metal Products;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Transportation Equipment; and Computer & Electronic Products.
The six industries reporting a decrease in production in August
-- listed in order -- are: Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Textile Mills; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Petroleum & Coal Products;
and Machinery. Five industries reported no change in production
in August compared to July.  Employment  ISM’s Employment Index registered 51.8 percent in August,
which is 1.7 percentage points lower than the 53.5 percent
reported in July. While this month represents the 23rd
consecutive month of growth in manufacturing employment, the
August reading is also the lowest reading since November 2009,
when the index registered 50.4 percent. An Employment Index
above 50.1 percent, over time, is generally consistent with an
increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data on
manufacturing employment.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, eight reported growth
in employment in August in the following order: Wood Products;
Paper Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal Products;
Machinery; Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Transportation
Equipment; and Chemical Products. The six industries reporting a
decrease in employment in August -- listed in order -- are:
Petroleum & Coal Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Computer & Electronic
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products.  Supplier Deliveries  The delivery performance of suppliers to manufacturing
organizations was nominally slower in August as the Supplier
Deliveries Index registered 50.6 percent, which is 0.2
percentage point higher than the 50.4 percent registered in July.
This is the 27th consecutive month the Supplier Deliveries Index
has been above 50 percent. A reading above 50 percent indicates
slower deliveries.  The 10 industries reporting slower supplier deliveries in
August -- listed in order -- are: Wood Products; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components;
Miscellaneous Manufacturing; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; Chemical Products; Fabricated
Metal Products; Machinery; and Transportation Equipment. The
three industries reporting faster deliveries in August are:
Primary Metals; Plastics & Rubber Products; and Paper Products.
Five industries reported no change in supplier deliveries in
August compared to July.  Inventories  The Inventories Index registered 52.3 percent in August, 3
percentage points higher than the 49.3 percent reported in July.
An Inventories Index greater than 42.7 percent, over time, is
generally consistent with expansion in the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis ’ (BEA) figures on overall manufacturing inventories
(in chained 2000 dollars).  The eight industries reporting higher inventories in August
-- listed in order -- are: Electrical Equipment, Appliances &
Components; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Chemical
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Transportation
Equipment; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and Fabricated
Metal Products. The seven industries reporting decreases in
inventories in August -- listed in order -- are: Plastics &
Rubber Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Nonmetallic
Mineral Products; Textile Mills; Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
Paper Products; and Petroleum & Coal Products.  Customers’ Inventories(c)  The ISM Customers’ Inventories Index registered 46.5
percent in August, 2.5 percentage points higher than in July
when the index registered 44 percent. This is the 29th
consecutive month the Customers’ Inventories Index has been
below 50 percent, indicating that respondents believe their
customers’ inventories are too low at this time.  The two manufacturing industries reporting customers’
inventories as being too high during August are: Apparel,
Leather & Allied Products; and Computer & Electronic Products.
The nine industries reporting customers’ inventories as too low
during August -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Paper Products; Textile Mills; Primary Metals;
Printing & Related Support Activities; Transportation Equipment;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Food, Beverage &
Tobacco Products; and Fabricated Metal Products. Six industries
reported no change in customers’ inventories for the month of
August compared to July.  Prices(c)  The ISM Prices Index registered 55.5 percent in August, 3.5
percentage points lower than the 59 percent reported in July.
This is the fourth consecutive month the Prices Index has
registered below 80 percent since December 2010, and is the 26th
consecutive month the index has registered above 50 percent.
While 29 percent of respondents reported paying higher prices
and 18 percent reported paying lower prices, 53 percent of
supply executives reported paying the same prices as in July. A
Prices Index above 49.4 percent, over time, is generally
consistent with an increase in the Bureau of Labor Statistics
(BLS) Index of Manufacturers Prices.  Of the 18 manufacturing industries, 12 report paying
increased prices during the month of August, in the following
order: Textile Mills; Transportation Equipment; Petroleum & Coal
Products; Furniture & Related Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products; Chemical Products; Nonmetallic Mineral Products;
Primary Metals; Printing & Related Support Activities; Paper
Products; Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; and
Machinery. The four manufacturing industries reporting paying
lower prices on average in August are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Fabricated Metal Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Computer & Electronic Products.  Backlog of Orders(c)  ISM’s Backlog of Orders Index registered 46 percent in
August, which is 1 percentage point higher than the 45 percent
reported in July. Of the 86 percent of respondents who reported
their backlog of orders, 15 percent reported greater backlogs,
23 percent reported smaller backlogs, and 62 percent reported no
change from July.  The five industries reporting increased order backlogs in
August are: Plastics & Rubber Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Machinery; Transportation Equipment; and Paper
Products. The six industries reporting decreases in order
backlogs during August -- listed in order -- are: Chemical
Products; Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Fabricated Metal Products;
Computer & Electronic Products; and Food, Beverage & Tobacco
Products. Seven industries reported no change in backlog of
orders for the month of August compared to July.  New Export Orders(c)  ISM’s New Export Orders Index registered 50.5 percent in
August, which is 3.5 percentage points lower than the 54 percent
reported in July. This is the 26th consecutive month of growth
in the New Export Orders Index.  The seven industries reporting growth in new export orders
in August -- listed in order -- are: Apparel, Leather & Allied
Products; Paper Products; Chemical Products; Computer &
Electronic Products; Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products;
Fabricated Metal Products; and Transportation Equipment. The
five industries reporting a decrease in new export orders during
August are: Textile Mills; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; and Machinery. Five industries reported no change
in exports in August compared to July.  Imports(c)  Imports of materials by manufacturers continued to expand
in August as the Imports Index registered 55.5 percent, 2
percentage points higher than the 53.5 percent reported in July.
This is the 24th consecutive month of growth in imports.  The nine industries reporting growth in imports during the
month of August -- listed in order -- are: Nonmetallic Mineral
Products; Paper Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Plastics & Rubber Products; Miscellaneous
Manufacturing; Transportation Equipment; Chemical Products; and
Machinery. The two industries reporting a decrease in imports
during August are: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; and
Electrical Equipment, Appliances & Components. Six industries
reported no change in imports in August compared to July.  (c) The Backlog of Orders, Prices, Customers’ Inventories,
Imports and New Export Orders Indexes do not meet the accepted
criteria for seasonal adjustments.  Buying Policy  Average commitment leadtime for  Capital Expenditures 
increased 2 days to 114 days. Average leadtime for Production
Materials decreased 3 days to 52 days. Average leadtime for
Maintenance, Repair and Operating (MRO) Supplies increased 2
days to 26 days.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of
manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). Manufacturing Business Survey
Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS code
categories: Food, Beverage & Tobacco Products; Textile Mills;
Apparel, Leather & Allied Products; Wood Products; Paper
Products; Printing & Related Support Activities; Petroleum &
Coal Products; Chemical Products; Plastics & Rubber Products;
Nonmetallic Mineral Products; Primary Metals; Fabricated Metal
Products; Machinery; Computer & Electronic Products; Electrical
Equipment, Appliances & Components; Transportation Equipment;
Furniture & Related Products; and Miscellaneous Manufacturing
(products such as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys and office supplies).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,
Imports, Production, Supplier Deliveries, Inventories, Customers’
Inventories, Employment and Prices), this report shows the
percentage reporting each response, the net difference between
the number of responses in the positive economic direction
(higher, better and slower for Supplier Deliveries) and the
negative economic direction (lower, worse and faster for
Supplier Deliveries), and the diffusion index. Responses are raw
data and are never changed. The diffusion index includes the
percent of positive responses plus one-half of those responding
the same (considered positive).  The resulting single index number for those meeting the
criteria for seasonal adjustments (PMI, New Orders, Production,
Employment, Supplier Deliveries and Inventories) is then
seasonally adjusted to allow for the effects of repetitive
intra-year variations resulting primarily from normal
differences in weather conditions, various institutional
arrangements, and differences attributable to non-moveable
holidays. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the
U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The PMI
is a composite index based on the seasonally adjusted diffusion
indexes for five of the indicators with equal weights: New
Orders, Production, Employment, Supplier Deliveries and
Inventories.  Diffusion indexes have the properties of leading indicators
and are convenient summary measures showing the prevailing
direction of change and the scope of change. A PMI reading above
50 percent indicates that the manufacturing economy is generally
expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is generally
declining. A PMI in excess of 42.5 percent, over a period of
time, indicates that the overall economy, or gross domestic
product (GDP), is generally expanding; below 42.5 percent, it is
generally declining. The distance from 50 percent or 42.5
percent is indicative of the strength of the expansion or
decline. With some of the indicators within this report, ISM has
indicated the departure point between expansion and decline of
comparable government series, as determined by regression
analysis.  Responses to Buying Policy reflect the percent reporting
the current month’s lead time, the approximate weighted number
of days ahead for which commitments are made for Production
Materials; Capital Expenditures; and Maintenance, Repair and
Operating (MRO) Supplies, expressed as hand-to-mouth (five days),
30 days, 60 days, 90 days, six months (180 days), a year or more
(360 days), and the weighted average number of days. These
responses are raw data, never revised, and not seasonally
adjusted since there is no significant seasonal pattern.  The Manufacturing ISM Report On Business is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management . The Institute
for Supply Management, established in 1915, is the largest
supply management organization in the world as well as one of
the most respected. ISM’s mission is to lead the supply
management profession through its standards of excellence,
research, promotional activities and education. This report has
been issued by the association since 1931, except for a four-
year interruption during World War II.  The full text version of the Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business is posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the first
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Manufacturing ISM Report On Business featuring the
September 2011 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Monday, October 3, 2011.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management
 http://www.ism.ws  