-- 
Libya Assets Unfrozen to Pay Vitol $300 Million Rebel Fuel Bill, U.S. Says

-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-09-01T19:52:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-says-300-million-of-libya-assets-freed-to-pay-vitol-for-rebels-fuel.html
The U.S. planned to release $300
million of frozen Libyan assets today to Geneva-based oil trader
Vitol Group for fuel provided to the rebels who ousted  Muammar Qaddafi .  The funds were part of the $700 million that Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  said in Paris today were to be unfrozen,
according to State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland.  A person familiar with the operation said Vitol bought two
tankers of crude oil from the National Transitional Council, the
rebels’ umbrella group, while providing about 20 tankers of
refined product.  The person, who declined to be identified because the deal
was private, said there remains a shortage of refined fuel in
the country after months of turmoil. A tanker typically carries
between 300,000 and 350,000 barrels of oil, the person said.
Vitol trades over 5.5 million barrels of oil a day.  The U.K. government had set up a unit to coordinate
economic sanctions against Qaddafi, ensuring he was starved of
fuel while Libyan rebels were supplied, a British official said.
The group tracked  oil tankers  to facilitate a blockade against
Qaddafi, while encouraging Vitol to sell to the rebels.  The government unit was the brainchild of International
Development Minister Alan Duncan, a former Vitol employee,
according to the  BBC , which earlier reported the U.K. operation.  Clinton was in Paris along with officials from 60
delegations attending a one-day meeting at the presidential
Elysee Palace to discuss how to support the new leaders of  Libya 
as they try to establish order and restore their economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  