-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Sept. 1 to Nov. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-09-01T13:15:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-sept-1-to-nov-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the  National Weather
Service  in Camp Springs, Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - During late August, although ENSO-
neutral conditions were present across the equatorial Pacific,
the atmospheric patterns continue to reflect La Nina-like
conditions, and sea surface temperature anomalies became
increasingly negative in the east-central equatorial Pacific
Ocean. As we progress into the Fall in the Northern Hemisphere,
ENSO-neutral conditions are expected to continue, with ENSO-
neutral or La Nina equally likely thereafter.  In the  United States , drought attributed to the past La Nina
event (Fall 2010-Spring 2011) persisted in the southern Plains.
August rainfall continued below normal, especially in eastern
 New Mexico  and most of  Texas , although Oklahoma generally
recorded seasonable totals. Similar to July, August also brought
near-record heat to the southern Plains, with August
temperatures averaging 4 to 8 degrees F above normal and most
days exceeding triple-digit highs. Subnormal August rains also
fell along the western two-thirds of the Gulf Coast, and into
most of the Southeast except for Arkansas and  Florida . Drier
than normal conditions also occurred from the upper Midwest
southeastward into the Tennessee Valley. In contrast, Hurricane
Irene (August 25-29) dumped copious rains (8 to 14 inches) on
the eastern Carolinas northward into the Northeast, erasing
drought but causing extensive flooding in many areas.  The Southwestern monsoon remained a mixed bag, with surplus
rains falling on eastern  Arizona  and western New Mexico and
parts of southern  California , but subnormal rains reported in
western Texas and eastern New Mexico, western Arizona, and
southern  Utah . Elsewhere, little or no rain fell on the Pacific
Northwest (normally low August totals), while surplus rains
occurred in the north-central Rockies and Plains and eastern
Ohio Valley. With the assumption that a weak La Nina event will
develop this fall (e.g. back to back La Nina years), drought
should persist and expand from the Southwest eastward into the
interior Southeast by the end of November. Likewise, drier
conditions are predicted for the upper Great Lakes region as per
the consecutive La Nina year composites.  The south-central Plains, however, were labeled some improvement
due to a slight wet correlation during the second year of a La
Nina and increased rains during August. In contrast, additional
improvement is anticipated across the southern and middle
Atlantic Coasts due to an expected above-normal Atlantic
Hurricane season, CPC’s September precipitation outlook, and
consecutive La Nina second year composites. And with expected
short to medium term and September wetness along the immediate
 Gulf Coast , a thin band of improvement and some improvement was
added to reflect this update; however, if this tropical moisture
fails to materialize during September, drought is expected to
persist and intensify in the western and central Gulf Coast.
Across  Hawaii , leeward drought persistence is expected, with
some moderate drought development in the southern islands
currently in D0 (abnormal dryness) based upon forecasted
subnormal Fall precipitation from CPC. No drought is
expected/forecasted for Alaska or Puerto Rico.  SOURCE: National Weather Service  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  