-- 
UN Refugee Agency ‘Not Doing Enough’ to Assist Somalis Fleeing Famine

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-09-01T15:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/un-refugee-agency-not-doing-enough-to-assist-somalis-fleeing-famine.html
The United Nations refugee agency
hasn’t done enough to meet the needs of Somalis that have fled
famine because of the region’s worst drought in 60 years, its
chief,  Antonio Guterres , said.  The world’s “worst humanitarian tragedy” is being
experienced in famine-hit Somalia, Guterres, the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees, told reporters in Kenya’s capital,
Nairobi, today.  “The UNHCR, as many other humanitarian organizations,
needs to have the humility to recognize that we are not doing
enough inside Somalia,” Guterres said. “That what we are doing
is out of proportion with the needs of the people. We need to
scale up and we need to intensify our efforts.”  The Horn of Africa drought has triggered a famine in
southern Somalia and Somaliland, and led to food shortages in
Kenya, Djibouti and  Ethiopia , affecting an estimated 12.4
million people in the region, according to the UN. Dadaab, the
world’s largest refugee complex at  Kenya ’s border with Somalia,
now hosts 440,000 people in a space designed 20 years ago to
house 90,000.  The $1.4 billion in donor pledges received so far to
address the crisis falls short of the total funding requirement
of $2.4 billion, according to the UN. The refugee agency is
among the donors distributing medical aid, high-energy foods,
water, shelter, plastic sheeting, blankets and cooking utensils
in Somalia’s capital, Mogadishu, and camps in the region.  “We don’t expect a new harvest before the end of the
year,” Guterres said. “The rains are supposed to come in
October but rains do not bring food immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  