-- 
U.S. Open Fans Overcome Hurricane Irene’s Disruptions to Watch Tennis

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T17:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/hurricane-irene-has-little-effect-on-u-s-open-crowds-through-first-days.html
U.S. Open  officials are projecting
attendance of more than 700,000 for the two-week event, reaching
that level for the fifth straight year after transportation
interruptions caused by Hurricane Irene.  Tournament organizers issued 174,320 tickets for the first
three days of the Grand Slam tournament at the National Tennis
Center in New York. That figure, which includes tickets sold and
those given out as complimentary passes, is 3,276 fewer than
last year at the same point. The tournament doesn’t release
tallies of those who actually walk through the gates.  The Open started as scheduled on Aug. 29 one day after
Irene swept through the area as a tropical storm, halting public
transportation in New York and  New Jersey . By the morning of the
event, subway service on the No. 7 train to the tournament had
been restored, while Long Island Rail Road service to the
grounds from  Manhattan  returned during that day.  There were 3,605 fewer tickets distributed for the first
two days this year, compared with 2010. Yesterday’s total of
59,505 for the day and night sessions was 329 more than in 2010.  “We were down 4,000 and, obviously, we believe that had
almost everything to do with Hurricane Irene, whether it was
some of our international guests who couldn’t fly in or still
some problems with the New York transportation system,” Chris Widmaier, a spokesman for the U.S. Tennis Association, said
today in an interview.  Tickets are split into day and night sessions. Day session
tickets include seats in either Arthur Ashe Stadium or Louis
Armstrong Stadium, or for entry to the grounds only, which
provides access to the other courts being used for competition.
All night-session tickets, accepted after 6 p.m., include Ashe
Stadium access.  Record Attendance  The U.S. Open set attendance record in 2009, with overall
tickets given out (721,059), a single day session (37,388) and a
single full-day total (61,554). Attendance dropped to 712,976
last year, when  Rafael Nadal  of  Spain  and  Kim Clijsters  of
Belgium won the singles titles.  Irene, which was a Category 1 hurricane when it made
landfall in  North Carolina  on Aug. 27, knocked out power to as
many as 6.69 million customers in its path, according to U.S.
Energy Department estimates. More than 1.1 million homes and
businesses remain without power four days after Irene moved into
 Canada .  Sunny skies with little wind and seasonally warm
temperatures have prevailed for the first three days of the
tennis season’s final Grand Slam event.  The U.S. Open sold about 97 percent of its tickets in the
previous four years, according to Widmaier.  “We are getting close each year to maxing out,” he said.  There is a 20 percent chance of rain on Sept. 3 and a 40
percent chance of rain the following two days, according to the
 National Weather Service   “Labor Day weekend is historically our highest-attended
days,” Widmaier said, adding that tickets for the weekend
haven’t yet sold out. “We’ll see how the weather holds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 