-- 
Tusk May Need to Forget Grudges in Drive to Shield Poland From Euro Crisis

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-09-02T10:04:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/tusk-may-need-to-forget-grudges-in-drive-to-shield-poland-from-euro-crisis.html
Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk
may need to overcome the loss of his coalition partner after
next month’s election to show investors he can steer the country
clear of the euro region’s debt crisis.  Tusk is counting on economic growth of more than double the
euro region’s pace to help him become the first Polish premier
since the collapse of communism 22 years ago to win a second
term. With polls showing the premier’s junior coalition partner
in danger of losing all their seats after the Oct. 9 election,
the risk is that a weaker mandate will hurt Polish bonds that
have beaten those of higher rated euro nations in the past year.  “If a weak government started to underperform on the
deficit plan, things could get bad,” said  Kieran Curtis , who
helps manage $3.5 billion in emerging-market assets at Aviva
Investors in  London .  Polish bonds have beaten Italian and Belgian debt in the
past three months as the threat of contagion from the Greek
crisis prompted investors to flee some euro-region assets. Tusk,
54, pledged that Poland, the only European Union member to avoid
recession in 2009, would cut the  budget deficit  below the 27-
nation bloc’s fiscal limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product next year. The shortfall was 7.9 percent in 2010.  The zloty weakened to 4.1770 against the euro at 11:07 a.m.
in Warsaw from 4.1425 yesterday. The yield on the five-year bond
maturing in April 2016 rose 0.2 percent to 5.018.  Bond Returns  Poland ’s benchmark five-year bond, rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service, returned 3.92 percent in the past three
months, compared with 1.68 percent for similar-maturity Belgian
debt, rated Aa1, and a 0.42 percent loss for comparable Aa2
Italian bonds, Bloomberg data show.  Poland’s EU membership may make it more vulnerable to the
effects of the euro region’s crisis as investors assess
potential contagion risk.  “Poland is certainly not going to be insulated if things
go wrong,” said  Paul McNamara , who helps manage $8.5 billion of
emerging-market debt at GAM Investment Management Ltd. in
London. “A German economy that’s barely growing is not helpful
for the zloty.”  The Polish currency has lost 4.4 percent against the euro
in the past three months, the second-worst performance among
more than 20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
behind the Turkish lira.  Peasants Struggle  Tusk, in power since 2007, will likely need a new coalition
partner to form a new government, opinion polls suggest. While
his  Civic Platform  enjoys the highest public support with 36
percent of the vote, the Peasants’ Party is below the threshold
for parliamentary representation at 4 percent, according to an
Aug. 18-24 survey of 1,051 Poles by researcher CBOS. No margin
of error was given.  Law & Justice, led by former Prime Minister  Jaroslaw Kaczynski , had 20 percent backing in the same poll, with the
 Democratic Left Alliance  at 8 percent. The Peasants’ Party has a
history of lower poll ratings than its election result. Two
months before the 2007 elections it had 3 percent support, while
it gained almost 9 percent of the final vote.  Parliament Puzzle  The Peasants’ Party returning to parliament may not be
enough for Civic Platform to build a parliamentary majority. Of
the opposition parties, Law & Justice opposes state asset sales
and urges higher social spending, while the Democratic  Left
Alliance  last month abandoned calls for increased expenditures
and is advocating a balanced budget.  The Alliance may be a more likely coalition partner after
Grzegorz Napieralski, its leader, refrained from spelling out
the party’s preferences and said voters must first decide the
parliament’s composition. Law & Justice seeks to become the
largest group in the legislature and has ruled out co-operation
with Civic Platform.  Tusk would nevertheless have to overcome a lifetime of
opposition to do business with the Alliance. The party emerged
from the Polish United Workers’ Party that ruled Poland for more
than four decades after World War II, which Tusk and other Civic
Platform leaders fought against as anti-communist dissidents.  Relations with Law & Justice, a one-time ally, hit a low
after former President  Lech Kaczynski  was killed in a plane
crash last year. Kaczynski’s twin brother, the party leader, has
said the government is partly responsible for the accident.  ‘Negative Signal’  “It would be a negative signal to the markets if there
were a difficult coalition-building process,” said Ronald Schneider, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2 billion in
emerging-market debt at Vienna-based Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage
GmbH. “A government with a strong mandate is definitely needed
to push through fiscal consolidation -- that’s what the market
is waiting for.”  Concern that Poland won’t be able to control its deficit
after the election increased the cost of insuring the country’s
debt against default. The nation’s credit rating may come under
negative pressure as the vote raises the risk of looser budget
policy, according to  Fitch Ratings .  ‘Enforce Its Plans’  “We are awaiting a plan for consistent reduction of
deficit and debt, which may be difficult because of this year’s
elections,” Piotr Kowalski, head of the ratings company’s local
unit, said in a June 14 interview. “There is a risk, given
current opinion polls, as it may turn out the current ruling
coalition won’t be able to enforce its plans because of purely
political reasons.”  Five-year credit-default swaps, used to speculate on a
borrower’s ability to repay debt or hedge against losses, rose
to as much as 236 basis points on Aug. 25 after dropping to as
low as 85.3 basis points in March 2010, figures from data
provider CMA show. The spread was 216 basis points on Aug. 31.  “We’ve been a bit worried that Poland seems to have been
ignoring some of its problems,” said Jens Thellesen, who helps
manage around $1.2 billion in emerging market debt at Jyske Bank
in Silkeborg,  Denmark . “In the global environment we have right
now, it’s very important to focus on your budget.”  The premier needs to meet the government’s forecast of 4
percent economic growth in 2011 and 2012 to meet his budget
pledges. Public debt reached 52.8 percent of GDP last year
according to Polish accounting standards. At 55 percent, it
would trigger mandatory austerity measures.  Economic Growth  Tax cuts in 2009 helped buoy the internal market in Poland,
the EU’s sixth-largest member with a population of 38 million,
keeping the country from sinking into recession two years ago as
export demand shrank. Economic growth was 4.3 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, beating the neighboring
 Czech Republic ’s 2.4 percent expansion.  The government expects the pace of growth to help it narrow
the deficit to less than its 5.6 percent target this year,
Deputy Finance Minister  Ludwik Kotecki  said in an Aug. 31
interview. Tusk has pledged to be vigilant against any overruns.  “Nobody in  Europe  or indeed in the world is in any doubt
that one of the main sources of the crisis was irresponsible
spending,” he said. “We will, as we have done since 2008 when
the first signs of the crisis began to reach Europe and Poland,
act in such a way that expenditure doesn’t overstep the
boundaries of good sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  