-- 
Venus Williams Faces Challenge Returning to Her Tennis Peak After Disease

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-09-01T17:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/venus-williams-faces-tough-fight-on-tennis-return-from-autoimmune-disease.html
Venus Williams  faces a tough fight
to return to the highest levels of tennis after being diagnosed
with a strength-sapping autoimmune disease that left her barely
able to lift her arms.  The 31-year-old American, a seven-time Grand Slam singles
champion, pulled out of the U.S. Open yesterday and said she has
 Sjogren’s syndrome . The condition, which is mainly found in
women, can cause extreme fatigue and joint pain and affect
internal organs, according to Arthritis Research U.K.  Williams said in a statement issued at the Open in  New York 
and reiterated today on ABC’s “Good Morning America” that she
planned to return to professional tennis. Simon Bowman, who runs
a clinic for people who have the disease and is medical
president of the  British Sjogren’s Syndrome Association , said in
an interview that she faces a tough task.  “If you’ve got a desk job, you might be able to cope with
any of these things,” said Bowman, a rheumatology consultant at
England’s University Hospital Birmingham. “But it might be
quite difficult to deal with if you’re a top-flight athlete.”  Williams, who won the U.S. Open in 2000 and 2001, withdrew
shortly before her second-round match against Sabine Lisicki of
 Germany .  “I had a tough practice, and I was sitting there and it
was an effort to just lift my arms,” Williams said on the ABC
morning show.  She said she was diagnosed a few weeks ago after years of
struggling with her stamina. Some of the long-term treatments
could take “three to six months” to start working, Williams
said.  ‘Get Better’  “The good news for me is that now I know what’s happening
after spending years not knowing,” Williams said. “Now that I
know, I have the chance to get better.”  Sjogren’s syndrome can lead to inflammation in the muscles
and lungs, make patients feel lethargic and cause dryness in the
mouth and eyes, Bowman said.  Although Sjogren’s isn’t life-threatening, it is an
incurable condition where the immune system starts attacking
glands that produce tears and saliva instead of fighting
infection, according to Arthritis Research U.K. Around a half-
million people in the U.K. suffer from the condition, which is
usually diagnosed in women between the ages of 40 and 60. The
American College of Rheumatology’s website said between 400,000
and 3.1 million people are affected in the U.S.  Patients with the condition “feel tired all the time, they
feel washed out,” Stephen Porter, a professor of oral medicine
at UCL Eastman Dental Institute in  London  and a former council
member of the British Sjogren’s Syndrome Association, said in an
interview. Playing professional tennis -- which requires
practices of up to five or six hours a day -- “might be
tricky,” Porter said.  Young Victim  Williams is relatively young to have been diagnosed with
the disease, according to Bowman.  “It’s a very variable disease, and there is typically
inflammation in the glands that produce tears and saliva,”
Bowman said. “But in younger people such as Venus Williams it
can have more involvement of other parts of the body. It can
lead to general fatigue, which is of course a major problem if
you are a high-level sports person, it can cause problems with
skin rashes, the breathing, the nervous system, the muscles, it
can cause arthritis.”  Williams won Wimbledon five times and formerly was ranked
No. 1 on the WTA tour. Now  ranked 36th , she struggled with
injuries all season and has played only four tournaments. She
was unseeded at the  U.S. Open  for the first time since 1997.  Asthma Treatment  Williams told ABC she had been diagnosed with exercise-
induced asthma four years ago after she struggled with her
stamina and that her medicine never worked. This summer, she
developed more symptoms of Sjogren’s.  “I had joint pain, my hands started swelling, my joints
started to change shape, I had some of the classic symptoms --
dry eyes and dry mouth,” Williams said. She also struggled with
fatigue, she added.  “The dryness I don’t think will affect her ability to play
tennis,” said Porter. “However, if her mouth is dry, it can
affect her sleep patterns and that might interfere in the
activity of a sports person. That might be a bit of an issue.”  Although the dryness symptoms can be relieved with eye
drops and moisturizing gels placed in the mouth, there currently
isn’t a treatment for fatigue, Porter said.  Arthritis Research U.K. has invested 1 million pounds ($1.6
million) in a five-year clinical trial on Sjogren’s syndrome.  “It’s going to be a few years before we know whether they
benefit people or not with this condition,” Bowman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 