-- 
Vestas ‘Confident’ U.K. Plant Will Be Built, Offshore Chief Says

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-09-01T11:27:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/vestas-confident-u-k-plant-will-be-built-offshore-chief-says.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s
biggest wind-turbine maker, is “very confident” it will build
a factory in  England  to make its biggest-ever machine, the
Danish company’s president of offshore power said.  Vestas in May announced it bought an option on 70 hectares
(173 acres) of land at Sheerness, a port in Kent southeast of
 London , to build a plant that may create 2,000 jobs.
Construction is dependent on new government incentives for
offshore wind power and sufficient orders for Vestas’s V164 7-
megawatt turbine.  “Given the fact that the option for land in itself was a
significant investment, and the fact that we have people working
every day on getting the permits and consents in place, we are
very confident that this is going to happen,” Anders Soe- Jensen, who heads the company’s offshore division, said
yesterday in an interview in a Vestas office in Ramsgate, Kent.  The V164, whose blades will sweep an area three times the
area of the Wembley stadium football field, is Vestas’s main
product to take the biggest share of U.K. offshore wind farms
resulting from the country’s third round of site licensing last
year. Construction is set to begin in 2015.  The U.K. must “fill in the blanks” in plans for
incentives for renewable power, Soe-Jensen said. The government
said in July that it’s projecting 18 gigawatts of offshore wind
capacity by 2020, up from 1.3 gigawatts, and an increase on a
prior 13-gigawatt goal. The country will also introduce
instruments known as contracts for difference, which provide
certainty on electricity prices, to spur renewables.  Siemens Takes Share  Britain in January 2010 awarded licenses for 32.2 gigawatts
of offshore wind projects to companies including Centrica Plc,
 RWE AG (RWE) , Statoil ASA, EDP Renovaveis SA and  Scottish & Southern
Energy Plc. (SSE)  Soe-Jensen said he’s in talks to sell the V164 to
all license winners except for developers of the proposed
Hornsea farm, which include  Siemens AG (SIE) , Vestas’s biggest
competitor in offshore  wind turbines .  While Randers, Denmark-based Vestas took more than half of
the market for offshore turbines last year, Soe-Jensen echoed
Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  in saying the company won’t
install any turbines at sea this year.  “We landed ourselves in this situation,” Soe-Jensen said.
“We should have been faster with a new turbine model.”  London-based analyst Bloomberg New Energy Finance predicts
Siemens will install 566 megawatts out of a European total of
916 megawatts this year, with the rest done by Bard Holding GmbH
and Suzlon Energy Ltd.’s RePower unit.  ‘Wow’ Factor  Vestas’s current main turbine offering for offshore markets
is the 3-megawatt V112, introduced in 2009. None have yet been
commercially installed, though developers including Dong Energy
A/S, Eldepasco and  PNE Wind AG (PNE3)  have expressed interest, Soe-
Jensen said. He said he’s had “loads” of interest in the V164,
which isn’t expected to begin commercial production until 2015.  “The day we announced the V164 in London, I have never in
one day received so many phone calls,  text messages , e-mails
from customers, colleagues, competitors, all going ‘wow’.” Soe-
Jensen said. “The response I received was global.”  The new turbines will be able to generate enough
electricity for 6,500 homes apiece, and will measure 164 meters
(534 feet) from blade tip to blade tip. The portion of the
machine above the waves will weigh 800 tons.  “Our expectation and inside business case is built around
North European waters,” Soe-Jensen said. “When you look at the
turbine, it is designed for the  North Sea , so you can say if
U.S. kicks off, if  China  kicks off, it’s just an added
benefit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  