-- 
Vietnam’s Banking Outlook to Stay Negative, Moody’s Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T05:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/vietnam-banks-to-stay-negative-moody-s.html
Vietnam ’s banking system outlook
over the next 12 to 18 months remains negative, in line with the
country’s sovereign debt, Moody’s Investors Service said, citing
concerns about falling profits and poor asset quality.  Domestic economic imbalances pose a risk to banks’ asset
quality and make funding more difficult, Moody’s said in a
report today. The quality of assets held by banks is “far
worse” than implied by officially reported non-performing-loan
figures, and some companies have begun reducing deposits due to
refinancing difficulties and weaker earnings, Moody’s said.  Vietnam is struggling to contain the fastest inflation in
 Asia  and facing slower growth and a persistent trade deficit.
Its economy is vulnerable to systemic risk resulting in part
from undercapitalized banks, rising debt and deteriorating
corporate profits,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said this week.  “The central bank is reinforcing the monitoring of the
banks and they are prepared to take action against any that
don’t follow their directives,” Alain Cany, the Ho Chi Minh
City-based chairman of the European Chamber of Commerce in
Vietnam, said by phone today. “We may also see some
consolidation in the sector.”  Asset quality is worsening and credit growth is beginning
to slow after loans swelled rapidly over the past two years,
wrote Karolyn Seet, a Singapore-based assistant vice president
at Moody’s. Bank loans rose 28 percent in 2010 and the central
bank is capping credit growth at 20 percent this year to quell
inflation, the ratings company said.  ‘Troubling Trend’  “A combined deterioration in asset quality and funding
would cause impairment charges to increase and competition for
deposits and other sources of funding to intensify, which would
unavoidably cause profit margins to narrow,” Seet wrote, also
citing a “troubling trend” toward more dollar loans, which
exposes borrowers to refinancing risks if exchange rates change.  Moody’s has a negative outlook on the country’s B1 credit
rating, its fourth-highest non-investment grade. The New York-
based company downgraded Vietnam’s long-term foreign-currency
rating in December, as did  Standard & Poor’s .  Bank risk management and strategy in Vietnam have been
hampered by inconsistent policies resulting from government
efforts to control inflation and support growth at the same time,
according to Moody’s. It cited the central bank’s decision to
cut a key  interest rate  in July, reversing an increase a month-
and-a-half earlier.  Fundraising Concern  Borrowers face difficulties because of high inflation and
lending rates as high as 27 percent, Seet wrote. Consumer prices
in Vietnam climbed 23.02 percent in August from a year earlier,
the fastest pace among 17 Asian economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “We are concerned about the ability of banks to raise
capital from the markets, as more weakly capitalized entities
may be perceived as experiencing difficulty maintaining their
market shares and showing increased vulnerability to solvency
pressures,” Seet wrote.  The near-bankruptcy of state-owned Vietnam Shipbuilding
Industry Group, known as Vinashin, has raised doubts about the
“true” asset quality of the country’s banks, Moody’s said.
Some banks have failed to classify loans to Vinashin as non-
performing, according to the ratings company.  Vinashin defaulted on foreign-currency borrowings at the
end of 2010, according to Moody’s.  --Jason Folkmanis in  Ho Chi Minh City . Editors: Russell Ward,
James Gunsalus  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at +84-91-205-3237 or
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  