-- 
Volatility May Hurt Provincial Sales, Nova Scotia’s Urbanc Says

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-09-01T15:20:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/volatility-may-hurt-provincial-sales-nova-scotia-s-urbanc-says.html
Volatility in global financial
markets is making Canadian provinces think twice before taking
advantage of historically low  interest rates  to issue bonds,
according to Peter Urbanc, Nova Scotia’s treasurer.  Nova Scotia, known for its lobster and as the birthplace of
hockey player  Sidney Crosby  of the  National Hockey League ’s
 Pittsburgh Penguins , needs to raise another C$900 million ($922
million) in the fiscal year that began in April to fund C$1.6
billion in borrowing requirements, Urbanc said.  “Markets are too skittish,” Urbanc said in an interview
in Halifax. “Record low interest rates are sure to entice many
provinces to want to issue, but there hasn’t been enough market
stability to support it.”  Debt concerns in Europe and the U.S. and the cut by
Standard & Poor’s of America’s AAA credit rating last month
caused swings in U.S. equities last month that were
unprecedented in the history of the country’s stock market,
according to data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg
and  Howard Silverblatt , senior index analyst at S&P.  Canada ’s
provinces and provincial agencies sold about C$9 billion of debt
in July and August, down from about C$11 billion in the same
period last year, according to data compiled by Desjardins
Securities.  “Provincial primary activity once again ground to a halt
last week with virtually no issuers coming to market, which
continues to be mired in uncertainty,” Jean Francois Godin,
vice president of fixed income and senior market analyst at
Desjardins in  Montreal , wrote in an Aug. 30 note to clients.  Quebec, Ontario Sales  August is typically a slow month for sales and “swirling
rumors of new supply should morph into actual issuance
shortly,” Godin wrote.  Issuance started picking up again this week, with  Quebec 
yesterday selling an additional C$500 million of 4.25 percent
notes due in December 2043. Ontario sold an additional C$750
million today of its 4 percent bond due in June 2021.  “Given how the equity markets have turned around in the
past four sessions, that may bring the required stability,”
Urbanc said.  The  S&P 500 Index  gained 5.1 percent in the four trading
days through yesterday, trimming its loss for August to 5.7
percent, the biggest since May 2010.  Nova Scotia is Canada’s fourth-smallest province by
population and is located about 850 miles northeast of  New York 
on the Atlantic coast.  Next Sale  Nova Scotia’s next bond sale would likely be a reopening of
its existing 10- or 30-year bonds because the province is
focusing on deepening its benchmarks, said Urbanc. He checks
Asian and European stocks, particularly European banking stocks
every morning to gauge the tone of risk sentiment and determine
whether it would be a good time to tap markets, he said. Banks
in  Europe  have been at the center of concern that sovereign debt
woes in the euro region may escalate.  Urbanc said that while his team considered issuing debt in
U.S. dollars and Swiss francs, it held off because the timing
wasn’t right.  The province last sold U.S. dollar debt in July 2010 with
the issue of $750 million of 2.375 percent bonds due in 2015,
according to Bloomberg data. It sold yen-denominated bonds in
August 2004 and euro-denominated debt in 2001, Bloomberg data
show. It hasn’t issued Swiss franc debentures since at least
1997, the data show.  Nova Scotia Finance Minister Graham Steele reported a C$569
million surplus on July 28 for the province’s fiscal year ended
March 31 on increased revenue and reduced spending. That beat an
April 2010 forecast for a deficit of C$222 million.  This fiscal year, the province sold C$600 million of its
4.4 percent bond due in 2042.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  