-- 
VTB Second-Quarter Profit Rises to Record on Higher Lending

-- B y   J a c k   J o r d a n   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-09-01T10:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/vtb-doubles-second-quarter-profit-to-record-27-4-billion-rubles.html
VTB Group,  Russia ’s second-biggest
bank, more than doubled second-quarter profit to a record as it
boosted lending and recorded fewer bad loans.  Net income climbed to 27.4 billion rubles ($948 million)
from 11.6 billion rubles a year earlier, Moscow-based VTB said
today in a statement.  Russia’s economy may grow 4.1 percent this year from 4
percent in 2010, spurring corporate demand for financing. Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s government approved a record $14
billion bailout for the Bank of Moscow in July, as VTB acquires
control of the country’s fifth-biggest lender.  “They look good -- credit growth picked up in the second
quarter, and coupled with a slight pickup in margins, this
highlights a strong underlying quarterly revenue performance,”
David Nangle, head of equity research at  Renaissance Capital  in
Moscow, said by e-mail.  VTB fell 2.5 percent to 7.3 kopeks as of 12:58 p.m. in
Moscow trading. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest bank, dropped 1.6
percent to 83.42 rubles.  “Banks in general are getting hit,”  Luis Saenz , chief
executive officer of the U.S. unit of Moscow-based brokerage
Otkritie Financial Corp., said by e-mail. “The results are not
bad. I would say they’re marginally better than expected.”  One-Time Gain  VTB’s lending rose 7 percent in the period to 3.28 trillion
rubles, while non-performing loans declined to 7.7 percent of
total lending from 8.6 percent at the end of last year. The bank
set aside 9.6 billion rubles to cover impaired loans, about 18
percent less than in the year-earlier period.  “We have taken important steps towards the integration of
the group’s new businesses,” VTB President Andrey Kostin said
in the statement. “We believe these will provide strong support
to the group’s franchise and deliver further value to
shareholders.”  The lender’s earnings were boosted by a one-time gain of
10.3 billion rubles from the recovery of provisions for loans
VTB had expected to write down. Excluding this revenue, the
bank’s net income was 18 percent below the estimate of analysts
at Citigroup Inc.  This was “on the back of higher-than-expected operating
costs and higher-than-expected provisioning,” Citigroup
analysts Simon Nellis and Maria Semikhatova wrote in an e-mailed
note. “We view the results as neutral as strong core revenue
trends were offset by higher costs and provisions.”  VTB’s staff costs and administrative expenses climbed 58
percent to 34.3 billion rubles from 21.7 billion rubles a year
earlier. Assets increased 10 percent to 4.72 trillion rubles at
the end of June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jack Jordan in Moscow at 
 jjordan22@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  