-- 
Weidmann Says ECB Must Scale Back Crisis Measures to Reduce Risk

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-09-01T09:15:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/weidmann-says-ecb-must-scale-back-crisis-measures-to-reduce-risk.html
European Central Bank council member
Jens Weidmann said the bank must scale back the additional risks
it has shouldered to help counter the region’s debt crisis.  Measures taken by the ECB have “strained the existing
framework of the currency union and blurred the boundaries
between the responsibilities of monetary policy on one side and
fiscal policy on the other,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s
Bundesbank, said at an event in Hanover today. Over time this
can damage confidence in the central bank, he said. “It is
therefore valid to scale back the extra risks monetary policy
has taken on.”  The ECB is lending euro-area banks as much money as they
need at its benchmark rate and has also re-started its bond
purchase program -- a step Weidmann opposed -- in an attempt to
stem the spreading debt crisis. While European leaders on July
21 re-tooled their 440-billion-euro ($629 billion) rescue fund,
allowing it to buy government debt on the secondary market,
national parliaments still need to ratify the changes.  “Decisions on taking further risks should be made by
governments and parliaments, as only they are democratically
legitimized,” Weidmann said.  He said one option for a long-term solution to  Europe ’s
debt crisis could be “a real fiscal union.”  “Should one be unwilling or unable to take this path, then
the existing no-bailout clause in the treaties, and the
accompanying disciplining of fiscal policy, should be
strengthened instead of being completely gutted,” he said.  Weidmann said his comments don’t relate to current economic
developments or ECB policy, citing the one-week blackout prior
to a rate decision. ECB officials will convene on Sept. 8 in
 Frankfurt .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 Jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  