-- 
Weinstein’s Saba Is Said to Hire JPMorgan’s Maitland Hudson for CMBS Swaps

-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T18:43:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/weinstein-s-saba-is-said-to-hire-jpmorgan-s-maitland-hudson-for-cmbs-swaps.html
Saba Capital Management LP, the
hedge fund started by former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  credit trader Boaz Weinstein, hired Toby Maitland Hudson from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
as the firm’s assets reach $4.1 billion, according to people
familiar with the hire.  Maitland Hudson, who started at Saba in New York last
month, ran JPMorgan’s proprietary trading of derivatives tied to
commercial-mortgage bonds and will focus on relative value
trades, according to the people, who declined to be identified
because it hasn’t been publicly announced. Maitland Hudson
joined JPMorgan in June 2008 from Bear Stearns Cos. after the
bank was forced to sell itself amid a funding squeeze, according
to records from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Saba is bolstering its trading in the market for debt and
derivatives tied to commercial-mortgages as concern that
economic growth is slowing spur price swings on the bonds, which
are linked to properties from skyscrapers to mobile home parks.
Prices on a Markit Group Ltd. CMBX index tied to junior AAA
commercial-mortgage backed securities sold in 2007, which fall
as  default risk  rises, have plunged more than 25 percent to 55
since the beginning of July.  Maitland Hudson referred questions to Jonathan Gasthalter,
a spokesman for Saba, who declined to comment.  Debt Crises  The $600 billion commercial-mortgage  bond market  has been
battered as Wall Street banks cut their inventories after
investors fled risky assets amid debt crises in  Europe  and the
U.S. The safest class of commercial-mortgage bonds is paying 291
basis points, or 2.91 percentage points, more than Treasuries,
according to a Barclays Plc index. That compares with a spread
of 209 basis points on July 1, and a low of 178 basis points on
April 26.  Wall Street traders are being lured to hedge funds as the
Dodd-Frank financial overhaul legislation cracks down on units
that focus on bets made with investment banks’ own money. Saba
is a so-called long/short credit fund that avoids large bets on
the direction of the economy and instead seeks to profit from
dislocations in prices between derivatives, bonds and loans.
Weinstein, former co-head of global credit trading at Deutsche
Bank in  New York , started Saba in 2009.  The turmoil in capital markets comes amid signs that real
estate values are recovering and defaults may have peaked. U.S.
commercial property prices rose for the second month in a row in
June, and are now 45 percent below the peak in October 2007,
Moody’s Investors Service said in an Aug. 22 report. Late
payments on commercial mortgages bundled and sold as bonds fell
to 9.4 percent in August, compared with a record 9.85 percent in
April, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc strategists Brian Lancaster,  Richard Hill  and Joseph Ruszkowski said in a report
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  