-- 
Wendy’s Taps Yum Brands Executive as CEO

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T15:02:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/wendy-s-taps-yum-brands-executive-as-ceo.html
Wendy’s Co., the operator of more
than 6,500 fast-food restaurants, said Chief Executive Officer
Roland Smith is stepping down this month as the company remakes
its menu to compete with McDonald’s Corp.  Emil J. Brolick will take over as president and CEO on
Sept. 12, Dublin, Ohio-based Wendy’s said in a statement today.
Brolick, 63, currently is chief operating officer of Yum! Brands
Inc., which owns the Taco Bell, KFC and Pizza Hut chains.  Smith, who sold the Arby’s sandwich brand earlier this year
and moved Wendy’s headquarters from Atlanta to  Ohio , has sought
to draw customers from McDonald’s by remaking its breakfast
menu. Smith has said he planned to use the proceeds from the
Arby’s sale to invest in new products, ads and store remodels.  “As I made the decision with my board not to move to
Dublin, we actually sought out and went after Emil,” Smith, 57,
said in a telephone interview. Brolick will continue Wendy’s
strategies, including new breakfast foods and cheeseburgers as
“he believes it’s the exact right thing to do,” Smith said.  Wendy’s rose 16 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $5.03 at 11:01
a.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
had gained 5.4 percent this year before today.  Before joining Yum in 2000, Brolick had worked at Wendy’s
for 12 years. Smith has been the CEO of Wendy’s since September
2008 and will serve as a senior adviser through the end of the
year.  ‘Clear Positive’  “We view the hiring of Emil as a very clear positive for
Wendy’s,” said  Mark Kalinowski , an analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in New York. Brolick has a “very data-driven,
analytical mind” and is “arguably one of the best individuals
out there that’s never been the CEO of a publicly traded
company.” Kalinowski advises buying the shares.  Billionaire investor  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund Management
LP was the largest Wendy’s shareholder as of July 1, with 19
percent of the company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Peltz, who united Wendy’s and Arby’s in a $2.56 billion all-
stock deal, also is the restaurant’s biggest individual
investor.  Carrie Bloom, a spokeswoman for Trian, declined to comment
on the management changes.  Roark Capital Group, an Atlanta-based buyout firm, bought
82 percent of the Arby’s chain in July in a deal valued at about
$430 million. The sale undid the tie-up engineered by Peltz, who
united the two brands in 2008. Peltz has said that Wendy’s has
“substantial” growth potential.  Wendy’s revenue rose 2.5 percent to $622.5 million in the
quarter ended July 3. Net income climbed 4.9 percent to $11.3
million in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  