-- 
Hyundai Heavy Sees $300 Million Annual Sales From China Wind-Turbine Plant

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-09-02T09:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-01/hyundai-heavy-sees-300-million-sales-from-china-turbine-plant.html
Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the
world’s largest shipyard, expects annual sales of as much as
$300 million from a wind-turbine factory in  China  as it bolsters
clean-energy units to pare a reliance on making vessels.  The plant in Weihai in the eastern province of Shandong
will open in October and may post at least $50 million of sales
next year, Kim Kweon Tae, head of the company’s low-carbon
energy business, said in an Aug. 31 interview in Ulsan, South
Korea. The sales may jump sixfold by 2015, he said.  “China is a market you can’t ignore,” Kim said. “There
will be a lot of competition but we plan to offer better quality
and services.”  The shipyard may also make acquisitions to boost its solar-
power business, he said, as it invests in low-carbon energy amid
rising competition from cheaper shipbuilders in China. The
company aims to raise clean-energy sales to 4 trillion won ($3.8
billion) in 2016 from about 600 billion won last year, he said.  “There is a limit to how much shipyards can grow by
relying heavily on one product,” said Cho In Karp, head of
research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in  Seoul . “In the long term,
this is the way to go because fossil fuels will eventually run
out.”  Shanghai  Wind Farm  Hyundai Heavy will next year use the new factory to bid for
work on an offshore wind farm planned off Shanghai, Kim said
without elaboration. The China plant, which will be able to make
300 2-megawatt turbines annually, will also eventually be used
to tender for projects in  Southeast Asia , he said.  The company may also finish developing a 5.5-megawatt
turbine, suitable for offshore wind farms, next year, Kim said.
It is studying a plan to develop a 10-megawatt unit.  Hyundai Heavy, which also builds power stations and makes
excavators, dropped 2.6 percent to 335,500 won in Seoul trading.
It has fallen 24 percent this year, compared with an 8.9 percent
decline in  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index.  China, the world’s largest wind-power producer, plans to
increase offshore wind power capacity to 5 gigawatts by 2015 and
to 30 gigawatts by 2020, according to China’s National
Development and Reform Commission.  The country has about 340 megawatts of offshore capacity
now and may only reach 4.5 gigawatts by 2015, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. That compares with plans to
install 20 gigawatts onshore this year, it said.  China aims to generate 20 percent of its energy from non-
fossil sources in 2020 from about 9.6 percent last year amid
efforts to reduce  carbon emissions .  Solar-Power Takeovers?  Hyundai Heavy, which also makes polysilicons used in solar
cells and solar-panels, may consider buying other clean-energy
companies as there are too many suppliers, which is causing
prices to fall, Kim said.  “We are open to opportunities for takeovers in the solar-
energy business,” he said. “We have been approached, but we
aren’t in a rush.”  The company will also begin work on a wind-farm project in
 Pakistan  after winning certification for its 1.65-megawatt and
2-megawatt wind turbines, Kim said. Det Norske Veritas is due to
approve the equipment this year, he said. The turbines will be
made in South Korea and in the China plant, he said.  The shipyard, Korea Southern Power Co., Hyundai Engineering
Co.,  Hyundai Corp. (011760)  and Yunus Brothers of Pakistan in January
last year agreed to set up a wind farm in Sindh, which will have
a capacity of 50 megawatts sufficient to power about 60,000
homes a year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  