-- Activision Blizzard Tops Estimates, Raises Full-Year View
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/activision-blizzard-topsestimates-raises-full-year-view.html
Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the video-
game maker put up for sale by majority owner  Vivendi SA (VIV) , posted
quarterly results that beat analysts’ estimates on gains from
its “Skylanders” and “Diablo” titles.  Second-quarter profit, excluding items, totaled 20 cents a
share, beating the 12-cent average of 19 analysts’  estimates .
Net income fell 45 percent to $185 million, or 16 cents a share,
from $335 million, or 29 cents, a year ago, Activision,m the
largest U.S. game publisher, said yesterday in a  statement .  Activision has weathered an industry slowdown in sales of
packaged discs for games played on consoles by releasing
additional content online for its shooter franchise “Call of
Duty.” It’s also nurturing a new title called “Skylanders
Spyro’s Adventure,” making both video games and action figures.  Second-quarter sales, excluding changes in deferred
revenue, rose 51 percent to $1.05 billion and beat the $837
million average of 19 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Total revenue fell 6.2 percent to $1.08 billion. The company’s
“World of Warcraft” multiplayer online game lost 1.1 million
subscribers in the period, finishing at 9.1 million.  Michael Pachter , a Wedbush Securities analyst in  Los
Angeles , said the drop in “World of Warcraft” subscribers was
unexpected. He has an “outperform” rating on the stock.  Activision fell 4.4 percent to $11.25 in extended trading.
The stock lost 0.4 percent to $11.77 yesterday in  New York  and
is down 4.5 percent this year.  Future Releases  With a new “World of Warcraft” scheduled for release on
Sept. 25, the next “Skylanders” installment and a new “Call
of Duty” going on sale later this year, Activision projected
full-year sales, excluding changes in deferred revenue, to rise
3.1 percent to $4.63 billion. Analysts estimate $4.59 billion.  Profit, excluding items, will be 99 cents, according to the
company, compared with analysts’ estimates of 98 cents. The
company previously projected 95 cents and $4.53 billion.  “We think being prudent is the best path, and I think
that’s what we’ve done with our guidance,” Chief Financial
Officer Dennis Durkin said on a conference call.  For the third quarter, Activision forecasts $690 million in
revenue and profit of 7 cents a share, on that basis, compared
with analysts’ projections of a 12-cent profit and sales of
$730.9 million.  In the past two years, the company has exceeded estimates
for profit in every quarter and for sales in all but one,
Bloomberg-compiled data show.  ‘Skylanders’ Toys  In the first half of 2012, “Skylanders” toys were the
top-selling action figures in the U.S., while the video games
ranked among the top three titles, Chief Executive Officer Bobby Kotick said in the statement.  Activision, led by Kotick since 1992, is 61 percent owned
by Paris-based Vivendi, also parent of  Universal Music . The
French company is under pressure from investors to boost its
share price and Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou on July 12 said ‘it’s
a possibility’’ his company may sell Activision.  In July, Activision announced a multiyear partnership with
 Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , an Internet services provider, to deliver
a Chinese version of “Call of Duty” that is free to play and
sells in-game items.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  