-- AIG Profit Climbs 27% to $2.33 Billion on Investments
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-02T21:43:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/aig-profit-climbs-27-to-2-33-billion-on-investments-chartis.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer majority-owned by the U.S. Treasury Department, said
profit increased 27 percent on investments and improvements at
its property-casualty unit.  Net income  rose to $2.33 billion, or $1.33 a share, from
$1.84 billion, or $1, a year earlier, the New York-based insurer
said today in a statement. Operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was $1.06 a share, beating the  average
estimate  of 60 cents in a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Benmosche , 68, is counting
on growth at AIG’s Chartis property-casualty and SunAmerica life
insurance operations to attract private capital as the Treasury
reduces its stake. The insurer said it purchased $7.1 billion in
mortgage-related securities from the Maiden Lane III rescue fund
this year as part of a plan to increase investment yields.  “Investors want to see that there’s some real tangible
evidence, not in any single quarter, but over time, that Chartis
profitability is improving,”  John Nadel , an analyst at Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., said by phone before results were announced.
“For the stock to be successful, it’s going to have to
transition from a sale of non-core assets, capital-management
story into a fundamental insurance-profitability-improvement
story.”  Book value, a measure of assets minus liabilities, rose to
$60.58 per share on June 30 from $57.68 three months earlier.
The stock climbed 21 cents to $31.05 at 5:08 p.m. in extended
trading in  New York .  Chartis, SunAmerica  Chartis, led by CEO  Peter Hancock , posted a pretax profit
of $961 million, compared with an  $826 million profit  a year
earlier. The global property-casualty insurer spent $1.02 for
every premium dollar on claims and expenses, compared with
spending $1.04 a year earlier when tornadoes struck Missouri and
 Alabama .  Policy sales at Chartis, which insures commercial property,
corporate boards and airplanes, fell about 1 percent to $9.1
billion from a year earlier. Hancock has been increasing the
focus in  emerging markets  and reducing business in areas that
require the company to hold large amounts of capital as he seeks
to improve returns.  AIG’s SunAmerica U.S. life insurance and retirement
services division, led by CEO Jay Wintrob, reported pretax
profit of $777 million, compared with $766 million a year
earlier. Premiums, deposits and other considerations at
SunAmerica fell 13 percent to $5.4 billion from a year earlier
as fixed-annuity business was hurt by low  interest rates .  Bond Gains  Net unrealized gains on bonds available for sale widened to
$18.2 billion from $16.2 billion three months earlier, led by
corporate debt. The figures, reflecting market fluctuations that
aren’t counted toward earnings, are monitored by investors and
rating firms as a gauge of financial strength.  Total net realized  capital gains  climbed to $397 million
from $75 million. The change in the fair value of Maiden Lane
contributed $1.31 billion while AIG’s stake in  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) 
cost  $493 million  as the Hong Kong-based insurer’s shares
declined.  So-called  alternative investments  generated income of $289
million, compared with a $503 million profit a year earlier, AIG
said in a  supplemental filing . Income from private equity fell
by 24 percent to $325 million. Hedge-funds lost $36 million,
compared with a profit of $77 million a year earlier. Returns
for hedge fund and private equity investments are reported on a
one month and one-quarter lag, according to the document.  Mortgage Insurance  The insurer increased its projected litigation liability by
$719 million in the quarter, according to a regulatory filing
today.  The addition is based on “developments in several
actions,” the company said, without outlining the cost per case.  AIG’s mortgage insurer,  United Guaranty , reported operating
income of $43 million compared with $12 million a year earlier
as new delinquencies fell. The unit provides insight into
housing and the economy, Benmosche has said.  International Lease Finance Corp., AIG’s plane-leasing
business, contributed $88 million to operating income, compared
with $86 million a year earlier. AIG said in September that it
plans to sell more than 20 percent of the subsidiary in an
initial public offering and divest most of the unit over time.  AIG named Laurette T. Koellner in June to oversee the
unit’s CEO, Henri Courpron, after he was investigated over a
relationship with an employee. AIG said at the time that
Courpron’s conduct was “contrary to AIG’s expectations of its
officers.”  Treasury Stake  The Treasury has sold about $17.5 billion of AIG shares,
reducing its stake to 61 percent in three offerings. AIG has
bought about $5 billion of its stock in the two sales this year.
Analysts including Nadel and  Jay Gelb  at Barclays Plc said the
Treasury may announce another share sale in the current quarter.
 Matt Anderson , a Treasury spokesman, declined to comment before
results were released.  The first two  offerings  were priced at $29 a share, and the
third at $30.50. The government needs to average about $28.72
over all share sales to break even on its investment. The shares
have gained about 33 percent this year.  AIG had received about $6 billion as of July 17 from
auctions of assets by the Maiden Lane III vehicle created in
2008 to aid in its rescue, the insurer said in a statement that
day. Proceeds first repaid a Fed loan to the vehicle. AIG may
use cash from the Maiden Lane III sales to buy back shares from
the U.S.,  Jimmy Bhullar , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, wrote
in a July 10 research note.  AIG agreed this week to buy a broker-dealer unit from
Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. to expand its investment-
advising business. The insurer is planning to restore the AIG
brand to its life insurance and property-casualty units this
year, Benmosche said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  