-- Air France Swaps Beat Peers on Debt-Cut Plans: Corporate Finance
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-02T15:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/air-france-swaps-beat-peers-on-debt-cut-plans-corporate-finance.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF) ’s effort to cut
the biggest debt pile of any European airline prompted a two-
month rally in its credit that’s leaving peers behind.  The cost of insuring the debt of  Europe ’s biggest airline
fell 30 percent to a five-month low since Air France-KLM
unveiled a reorganization plan on May 24 that includes 2 billion
euros ($2.5 billion) of debt reductions. The decline is the
steepest among credit-default swaps of European carriers
including  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) , British Airways and SAS Group,
the Nordic region’s biggest airline.  Air France-KLM is cutting jobs, merging units and boosting
no-frills flights to try and head off a fourth straight  annual
loss  caused by higher costs and competition from budget
airlines. The savings plan reduced its second-quarter operating
loss by more than 50 percent to 66 million euros, beating
estimates as sales increased.  “The advances in the cost cutting plans, especially the
reduction of the highly protected French workforce, is an
important milestone in its return to profitability,” said
Manuel Herold, a credit analyst at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in Munich.
“Air France-KLM bonds and credit-default swaps are likely to
outperform the market on a short-term perspective.”  The extra yield investors demand to buy Paris-based Air
France-KLM’s 700 million euros of 6.75 percent securities due
2016 instead of benchmark German government debt has shrunk to
594 basis points, or 5.94 percentage points, from a record 766
basis points on July 17, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The 23 percent decline compares with a 7 percent drop
to 254 basis points in the spread of Lufthansa’s 6.5 percent
bonds due 2016.  Crisis Headwinds  Air France-KLM, created in 2004 from the merger of the
French and Dutch carriers, faces headwinds from Europe’s
deepening debt crisis. The  International Air Transport
Association  in June doubled its loss forecast for the
continent’s airlines to $1.1 billion this year and said its $3
billion profit prediction for carriers around the world may be
reduced if Europe’s economy worsens.  Air France-KLM said it would eliminate more than 5,000 jobs
under the turnaround plan, known as Transform 2015 and which
Chief Executive Officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta said is needed to
guarantee the airline’s survival. Under the plan, the airline
plans to lower net debt to 4.5 billion euros from 6.5 billion
euros at the end of 2011.  Brigitte Barrand, a spokeswoman for Air France-KLM in
Paris, declined to comment.  Swap Drop  Credit-default swaps on Air France-KLM dropped to 877 basis
points today, from 1,226 on May 24, Bloomberg data show. Swaps
protecting British Airways, a unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , fell 18 percent to 639 basis points in the
same period, while Lufthansa dropped 13 percent to 281 basis
points. Contracts on SAS were little changed at 1,332 basis
points.  The price of Air France-KLM’s swaps is still higher than
the 543 basis-point average for 2011, Bloomberg prices show. The
contracts rose to a record 1,332 basis points on May 21, three
weeks after the carrier reported a bigger-than-expected
operating loss for the first quarter.  Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point equals
1,000 euros annually to protect 10 million euros of debt.  “Air France’s CDS will continue to tighten in the next
months due to efficient management and a solid debt
restructuring plan,” said Pierre Bergeron, a credit analyst at
Societe Generale SA in Paris. “The spread between Air France
and its rivals will narrow further,” he said, without providing
specific numbers.  Net Debt  Air France-KLM reported 6.2 billion euros of net debt at
the end of June, which compares with Lufthansa’s 2.1 billion
euros at the end of the first  quarter  and 1.1 billion euros at
International Consolidated Airlines Group, or IAG, Bloomberg
data show.  The Paris-based carrier has 2.9 billion euros of borrowing
coming due in 2013 and 2014, according to its  website . The
company’s unsecured debentures include 1.45 billion euros of
senior bonds and 1.1 billion euros of convertible notes.  Air France-KLM’s debt-to-equity ratio rose to 1.28 times at
the end of June compared with 1.07 times in 2011 because of the
cost of its reorganization, the company said in its  second-
quarter results  on July 30.  The airline isn’t rated by Moody’s Investors Service,
Standard & Poor’s or Fitch Ratings.  Yield Plunges  Air France-KLM has risen 6 percent this year to 4.21 euros
a share as of 5:05 p.m. in Paris, boosted by an 8 percent surge
this week after its second-quarter results.  The deepening European slump means it’s tougher to increase
prices this year, forcing some airlines to idle aircraft and
raise fares. Air France-KLM’s quarterly fuel bill advanced 13
percent to about 1.9 billion euros and will reach 9.4 billion
euros for the year, an increase of about 400 million euros.  Air France-KLM’s Transform 2015 plan will combine its
European operations into three units, including a single
division covering smaller cities. The carrier’s job
restructuring was backed by ground workers and pilots last week,
though cabin crew groups still oppose the plan.  “The agreements with some of the employees on the
restructuring and the second-quarter results are early signals
that the restructuring is going to happen” said Arnaud Colombel, a fund manager of CPR Asset Management in Paris, which
is considering buying debt of European airlines after selling
their holdings in March.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  