-- Airbus Powers Up Cockpit on Delayed A350 Passenger Jet
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-02T14:53:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/airbus-powers-up-cockpit-on-delayed-a350-passenger-jet.html
Airbus SAS said the cockpit of the
first A350 passenger aircraft has been powered up for initial
electrical testing as  Europe ’s largest aircraftmaker struggles
with building the long-range jet.  The front section of the aircraft, which includes the
cockpit, arrived within the past month in Toulouse in
preparation for the start of full aircraft assembly in October.
Power was applied to the front fuselage for the first time on
July 23 and the cockpit displays were put under power four days
later, Airbus said in an email.  “The power-on acts as a dry-run for the ground tests that
will take place later on the complete aircraft,” said Martin
Fendt, a spokesman for the Toulouse-based aircraft maker. “This
allows us to check the quality and completeness of the nose
fuselage.”  Airbus-parent European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. last
week delayed the first flight of the A350, its competitor to
 Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 and 777 long-range aircraft. The schedule
change is driven by delays in building the composite wing.
Drilling, that was due to be automated, is still being done by
hand.  The A350’s first flight is now planned for June or July,
with entry into service delayed three months to the second half
of 2014. More tests of the front fuselage are scheduled to take
place over the comings weeks, with a target of having the full
aircraft under electric power this year, Airbus said in a
statement.  Airbus began the A350 final assembly process in April. The
first aircraft to undergo the process will be used only in
ground trials to assess the structural strength of the composite
airframe and wings. Airbus will build a second ground
test aircraft to gauge the longevity of the airframe. Five
aircraft will be involved in a flight test program ahead of
customer deliveries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  