-- Taiwan Downgrades Saola to Tropical Storm
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-08-02T08:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/taiwan-downgrades-saola-to-tropical-storm.html
Typhoon Saola weakened to a tropical
storm today after at least one person died in  Taiwan , where
winds and rain also knocked down trees, flooded homes and forced
authorities to shut financial markets, offices and schools.  A policeman on patrol in New Taipei City fell into a river
after suffering a heart attack and drowned, local broadcaster
TVBS reported. Taiwan’s cabinet confirmed the death in a
statement without providing more details.  Saola, which earlier killed 23 people in the  Philippines ,
is the third storm to hit Taiwan this year. In 2009, Typhoon
Morakot killed more than 600 people, prompting Premier Liu Chao-
shiuan to resign and sending President Ma Ying-jeou’s approval
rating to a record low of 16 percent.  The weather bureau downgraded Saola to a tropical storm at
2:30 p.m. local time. At 3:15 p.m., it was centered 50
kilometers (31 miles) east of Taipei with winds as fast as 137
kilometers per hour, falling from 155 kilometers three hours
earlier. The storm was moving north-northwest at 12 kilometers
to 16 kilometers an hour, the weather bureau said.  In Taipei, the weather bureau reported 122 centimeters (48
inches) of rainfall from midnight to 3:15 p.m. local time. TVBS
showed images of cars crushed by fallen trees and residences
inundated by flood water in New Taipei City. The army evacuated
residents from parts of Yilan county and also delivered food,
the broadcaster reported.  Agricultural and public infrastructural losses have reached
about NT$123 million ($4.1 million), the Council of Agriculture
said.  Canceled Flights  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd,  China  Airlines Ltd, and China
Eastern Airlines Corp. canceled some flights arriving at and
departing Taipei today, according to the Taoyuan International
Airport website.  In the Philippines, Saola forced more than 8,000 people
into evacuation centers after the storm, also called Gener
locally, lashed northern and central parts of the country, the
government said July 31. The National Disaster Risk Reduction
and Management Council today raised the death toll from Saola to
23 from an earlier report of 12 deaths and said that another 21
people had been injured.  In  Hong Kong , the typhoon left Wang Dan, an exiled 1989
Tiananmen Square dissident from China, stranded at the city’s
airport,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported. Wang was returning
to Taiwan from the U.S. via Hong Kong when the storm prevented
his flight from taking off, according the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  