-- Taiwan Reports First Death as Typhoon Saola Lashes Island
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   C h i n m e i   S u n g
-- 2012-08-02T06:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/taiwan-shuts-schools-businesses-as-typhoon-saola-nears.html
Taiwan  reported its first death from
Typhoon Saola as winds and rain lashed the island, knocking down
trees, flooding homes and forcing authorities to shut financial
markets, offices and schools today.  A policeman on patrol in New Taipei City fell into a river
after suffering a heart attack and drowned, local broadcaster
TVBS reported. Taiwan’s cabinet confirmed the death in a
statement without providing more details.  Saola, which earlier killed 23 people in the  Philippines ,
is the third storm to hit Taiwan this year. In 2009, Typhoon
Morakot killed more than 600 people, prompting Premier Liu Chao-
shiuan to resign and sending President Ma Ying-jeou’s approval
rating to a record low of 16 percent.  At 12:15 p.m. local time today, Saola was centered 40
kilometers east-southeast off northeastern Taiwan’s Yilan county
with winds blowing as fast as 155 kilometers (96.3 miles) per
hour. The storm was moving north-northwest at 12 kilometers to
16 kilometers an hour, the weather bureau said.  In Taipei, the weather bureau reported 111 centimeters
(43.7 inches) of rainfall from midnight to noon local time. TVBS
showed images of cars crushed by fallen trees and residences
inundated by flood water in New Taipei City.  The weather bureau also affirmed a landslide warning and
the northeastern county of Yilan opened an evacuation center to
take in local residents.  Canceled Flights  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd,  China  Airlines Ltd, and China
Eastern Airlines Corp. canceled some flights arriving at and
departing Taipei for the rest of the day, according to the
Taoyuan International Airport website.  In the Philippines, Saola forced more than 8,000 people
into evacuation centers after the storm, also called Gener
locally, lashed northern and central parts of the country, the
government said July 31. The National Disaster Risk Reduction
and Management Council today raised the death toll from Saola to
23 from a earlier report of 12 deaths and said that another 21
people had been injured.  In  Hong Kong , the typhoon left Wang Dan, an exiled 1989
Tiananmen Square dissident from China, stranded at the city’s
airport,  Radio Television Hong Kong  reported. Wang was returning
to Taiwan from the U.S. via Hong Kong when the storm prevented
his flight from taking off, according the report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chinmei Sung in Taipei at 
 csung4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  