-- Thaler’s JAT Reduces This Year’s Loss With 4.7% July Gain
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-08-02T18:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/thaler-s-jat-reduces-this-year-s-loss-with-4-7-july-gain.html
John A. Thaler’s JAT Capital
Management LP rose 4.7 percent in July, paring this year’s loss
from wrong-way bets on consumer stocks as the firm reduced
holdings in those companies, according to a letter to clients.  The gain cut the hedge fund’s 2012 decline to 17 percent,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private.  Catherine Jones, a spokeswoman for New York-based JAT,
declined to comment on the letter.  JAT, which uses a long-short strategy that seeks to profit
by betting on rising and falling stocks, is focusing more on
technology, media, telecommunications, travel, leisure and
gaming companies.  Consumer investments  lost almost 15 percent
year-to-date, the biggest contributor to the fund’s decline, the
firm said in the letter sent to clients today.  “The past nine months have been a challenging stretch for
me personally and the entire JAT team,” Thaler wrote. “The
strategic decision to expand beyond our core area of focus was
costly. The good news, from my perspective, is that when you
look at the data, our issues were largely isolated to one thing,
which has now been removed.”  Clients have redeemed about $250 million from JAT this
year, the person said. JAT managed $1.92 billion in assets as of
July 1, the firm said in the letter. The firm oversaw $2.3
billion in June, two people familiar with the matter said at the
time. A new investor agreed to allocate at least $250 million to
JAT’s new series of shares, the firm said in the letter, without
naming the client.  Consumer Companies  Consumer companies comprised 2.2 percent of JAT’s portfolio
as of July 1, the firm said.  Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX) ,
the largest long position as of March 31, according to
regulatory filings, contributed the “vast majority” to the
firm’s 9.2 percent second-quarter loss, JAT said. The firm has
pared its shares of the Lexington, Kentucky-based mattress maker
since the first quarter, the two people said in June. The stock
plunged 72 percent last quarter.  Hedge funds climbed  1.1 percent  in the first half of the
year, trailing a 6 percent gain for equities worldwide,
including reinvested dividends, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as investors speculated on whether  Europe  would
contain its sovereign-debt crisis. Global hedge fund assets
pulled back from a record as managers incurred losses in the
second quarter, resulting in a decline to $2.1 trillion from
$2.13 trillion at the end of the first quarter, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  ‘Trained’ Investors  “We are somewhere in the middle innings of the
deleveraging process in the  euro zone ,” Thaler wrote.
“Investors have now been trained on the notion that weak
fundamentals will be met with action from policy makers, and
when poor  market sentiment  is met with the appropriate policy
response, a vicious market rally will ensue. It is reasonable to
think that this cycle will continue for the foreseeable
future.”  Thaler, 37, founded JAT in 2007 after leaving Shumway
Capital Partners LLC, where he most recently managed a portfolio
of telecommunications, media and technology equities. Shorting
is when investors sell stock they have borrowed with the
intention of buying it back at a lower price.  JAT rose 17 percent last year to rank among the top 20
 hedge funds  in a Bloomberg Markets survey. It gained 11 percent
in 2010 and 20 percent in 2009. The firm lost 5.9 percent in
2008 and 0.7 percent in November and December 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  