-- AllianceBernstein Dropped as Adviser on 3 Vanguard Funds
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-08-02T18:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/alliancebernstein-dropped-as-adviser-on-3-vanguard-funds-1-.html
AllianceBernstein (AB)  LP, the  money
manager  that has lost about $200 billion to client redemptions
since the end of 2008, was removed as adviser to three Vanguard
mutual funds, according to a statement today from  Valley Forge ,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard.  Vanguard, the biggest U.S. mutual fund company, dropped
AllianceBernstein from its $12.1 billion  Windsor Fund (VWNDX) , the $6.2
billion International Value Fund and the $3.7 billion Global
Equity Fund. Alliance Bernstein managed $5.2 billion for
Vanguard, spokesman  John Woerth  wrote in an e-mail.  “Vanguard gives managers a lot of rope, but in this case
they decided they had had enough and sacked them,” Daniel
Wiener, editor of the New York-based newsletter Independent
Adviser for Vanguard Investors said in a telephone interview
today. Alliance Bernstein had been an adviser to Vanguard for
more than 10 years, Vanguard said in its statement.  New York-based AllianceBernstein has been plagued by
redemptions from its equity funds, a problem Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Kraus  has attributed to underperformance. Alliance
had $2.8 billion in withdrawals in the second quarter of 2012,
the lowest level of redemptions since the first quarter of 2008.
Kraus said today the financial impact of Vanguard’s decision
will be “immaterial.”  Pzena Investment Management LLC was added as a manager to
the Windsor Fund. ARGA Investment Management LP was given a
portion of the assets of the International Value Fund. Baillie
Gifford Overseas Ltd., already one of the managers on Global
Equity, was given more money to oversee, Vanguard said.  Earnings Decline  AllianceBernstein Holding LP, which is publicly traded,
fell rose 0.4 percent to $12.17 at 2:07 p.m. in  New York , after
losing as much as 2.6 percent earlier.  The company today reported a 40 percent decline in second
quarter net income to $21.3 million, and said it would take a
non-cash charge of $225 to $250, most of it in the second half
of this year, to cover the cost of cutting back on the real
estate it occupies. The move will translate into annual savings
of $38 to $43 million, AllianceBernstein said in its earnings
announcement.  AllianceBernstein in June extended Kraus’s contract, which
would have expired in 2014, an additional five years.  “They showed some improvements in their flows which may be
a reflection of positive momentum,” Macrae Sykes, an analyst at
Rye, New York-based Gabelli & Co., said in a telephone
interview. Gamco Asset Management, Gabelli’s money-management
arm, and Gabelli Funds LLC, held a combined 1.3 million shares
of Alliance Bernstein as of March 31, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The three Vanguard equity funds underperformed a majority
of peers over five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Windsor trailed 65 percent of rivals; International
Value trailed 51 percent and Global Equity trailed 73 percent.
All three funds are actively managed and have multiple managers.  About 40 percent of Vanguard’s $1.8 trillion in assets is
actively managed. The rest is in  index funds  and exchange-traded
funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  