-- American Superconductor Rises as Earnings Beat Expectations
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-08-02T20:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/american-superconductor-rises-after-earnings-exceed-expectations.html
American Superconductor Corp. (AMSC) , a
maker of wind-turbine and power-grid electronics, gained the
most in more than six months after its quarterly loss narrowed
and it beat analysts’ expectations.  American Superconductor increased 21 percent to $4.30 at
the close in New York, the most since Jan. 18.  The company, based in Devens,  Massachusetts , reported a net
loss of $10.3 million for its fiscal first-quarter ending June
30, or 20 cents a share, compared with a loss of $37.7 million,
or 74 cents, a year earlier, according to a statement today.
Excluding legal fees and other one-time expenses, the company
lost 20 cents a share, 3 cents less than the average of six
estimates compile by Bloomberg.  Sales increased to $28.7 million from $9.1 million because
of “strong growth in the company’s wind and grid” sectors. The
company is seeking to overcome the loss of Sinovel Wind Group
Co., which contributed about 70 percent of its revenue in fiscal
2010 and stopped accepting shipments in March 2011.  “With key contributions coming from  China ,  Korea  and India
in our wind segment and Australia and Romania in our grid
segment, our revenue streams remained diverse and well
balanced,” Chief Executive Officer Dan McGahn said in the
statement.  American Semiconductor is seeking more than $1.2 billion in
damages from Sinovel, China’s biggest turbine maker, for
allegedly violating contracts and stealing its technology.
China’s highest court agreed to hear the case in May.  The legal dispute has spread to  Brazil , where Sinovel is
facing a suit by the wind developer Desenvix Energias Renovaveis
SA, which is seeking to examine 23 of its turbines to determine
whether they’re using stolen technology. This “certainly adds
momentum for our side,” McGahn said today on a conference call.
“Our legal team has been and will continue to be intensely
focused on each of these cases.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  