-- Amtrak Food Service Lost $834 Million in 10 Years, Mica Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-08-02T17:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/amtrak-s-food-lost-taxpayers-834-million-in-10-years-mica-says.html
Amtrak  lost $84.5 million selling
food and beverages last year and $833.8 million over 10 years,
 House Transportation  and Infrastructure Chairman  John Mica  said,
calling for a “better way” to run those operations.  It costs taxpayers $3.40 for each can of soda the U.S.
passenger railroad sells on its trains, and Amtrak charges
$2.00, the Florida Republican said at a hearing today.  Taxpayers subsidized $68,477 in losses in 2011 for each
Amtrak food-service employee, he said, citing Government
Accountability Office estimates.  “At a time of running multitrillion-dollar deficits, we’ve
got to look at every area of government,” Mica said.
“Hardworking Americans are underwriting these losses. There has
to be a better way.”  The hearing comes as Amtrak, which has lost money
throughout its four-decade history, is laying out plans to build
a high-speed rail network in the corridor between Washington and
 Boston .  Last month, Amtrak proposed a renovation of Washington’s
 Union Station  that would cost at least $6.5 billion, and
published a $151 billion plan for bringing 220-miles-per-hour
service to its Northeast Corridor, the only route on which
Amtrak gets enough revenue to cover operating costs.  Republican proposals to use more outside food-service
contractors would eliminate Amtrak jobs with good wages and
benefits, and replace them with low-wage positions, said Nick Rahall of  West Virginia , the panel’s senior Democrat.  ‘Cheaper Cheeseburgers’  Food costs aren’t the major cause of Amtrak’s financial
difficulties, and congressional micromanagement has made it
impossible for Amtrak to make good decisions, Rahall said.  “This is a whopper of a bad idea if I have ever heard one:
trading good-paying jobs with benefits for cheaper
cheeseburgers,” he said.  Having food service on routes covering more than a few
hours is a essential component of running trains, Amtrak Chief
Executive Officer Joe Boardman said at the hearing. Reducing on-
board service may cause people to stop riding and lead to higher
losses, he said.  In 2006, the railroad recovered 49 percent of its costs on
food. In 2011, the figure was 59 percent. The goal for 2015 is
70 percent, Boardman said.  Amtrak contracts out its commissary functions while using
its own workers to serve food and beverages on trains.
Legislation proposed last year by Representative Jean Schmidt,
an  Ohio Republican , would require the on-board operations to be
contracted out to companies.  ‘Different Animal’  Maine  loses about 37 cents per passenger using a contractor
on trains the state runs in partnership with Amtrak, while
Amtrak itself loses about $2.80 per passenger, said
Representative Bill Shuster, a Pennsylvania Republican.  “I want Amtrak to succeed, but it can’t keep going on the
path it’s been going on for 20 years,” Shuster said.
“Monopolies shouldn’t lose money.”  About 88 percent of Amtrak’s food-service losses occur on
its long-distance routes, said Ted Alves, the railroad’s
inspector general. Employees who are on trains for three or four
days at a time have more duties than a typical fast-food worker,
Alves said.  “We have to recognize it is a very different animal,”
Alves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  