-- Andy Samberg’s Lost Love; Law Seeks Sex in ‘360’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-08-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/andy-samberg-s-lost-love-law-seeks-sex-in-360-movies.html
Think divorce is hard on the kids?
Imagine what it does to a romantic comedy.  The amicable, bittersweet “ Celeste and Jesse Forever ”
copes as best it can.  Actress  Rashida Jones  (NBC’s “Parks and Recreation”), in
her screenwriting debut, hands herself a calling-card role as
Celeste, a Type-A professional trend-spotter who fears that her
comfortable marriage to artist/slacker Jesse (a toned down  Andy
Samberg ) has run its course.  Childhood sweethearts, Celeste and Jesse are the sort who
amuse themselves at parties with private jokes and cutesy
accents. Dinner companions squirm in discomfort.  Not even pending divorce can pop their cloying little
bubble: They’re separated (not by much: he lives in a bungalow
behind her L.A. home) because she is ready for a grown-up life
and he doesn’t even have “a checking account or dress shoes.”  Apparently Jesse doesn’t have condoms either. A one-night
stand during his time off from Celeste has resulted in both a
pregnancy and domestic life that doesn’t include his soul mate.  Life Intervenes  Jones and her writing partner (and former beau)  Will
McCormack  tinker with rom-com conventions to question the
sustainability of love and affection when life intervenes, and
their movie is brave enough to follow through.  But bravery isn’t enough. “Celeste and Jesse Forever”
aims for “ Annie Hall ” poignancy, but director  Lee Toland
Krieger  pushes too hard, with one close-up after another all but
demanding that we fall in love with Jones.  That shouldn’t require such a hard sell. Jones is likeable,
maybe even lovable, but her co-written script feels self-
indulgent, packed with drunk scenes and teary breakdowns that
undercut the “and Jesse” part of the title.  Samberg, if hardly a nuanced actor, reins in his usual
face-making, and  Emma Roberts  does a fine turn as a petulant
Hollywood starlet who forms an unlikely bond with Celeste. The
ubiquitous  Chris Messina  is nicely low-key as Celeste’s practice
boyfriend, and co-writer McCormack is funny as a loutish pal.
 Elijah Wood , as Celeste’s gay colleague, seems lost in a
glorified cameo.  “Celeste and Jesse Forever,” from  Sony Pictures Classics ,
opens tomorrow in  New York  and  Los Angeles .
Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Hopkins’s ‘360’  Playing Hannibal Lecter didn’t typecast  Anthony Hopkins 
forever.  Still, watching Hopkins in “360” -- as a bereaved father
delivering a long, lugubrious monologue at an A.A. meeting (and
done very skillfully) -- it’s hard not to feel nostalgic for
Hannibal the Cannibal.  That’s how all of “ 360 ” is: heavy, glum. Written by  Peter
Morgan  (“ The Queen ”) and directed by  Fernando Meirelles 
(“ City of God ”), its subject is worldwide sex.  The distant inspiration is the daisy chain of lovers in
Arthur Schnitzler’s “Reigen” (or “La Ronde”), the turn-of-
the-20th-century sex drama that scandalized Vienna.  “360” presents sex the way movies about addiction tend to
present heroin or crack: You see the terrible consequences, but
not the pleasure that would lead anyone to do drugs in the first
place.  Sexual Pursuits  If you came from a distant planet where intercourse was
unknown, you’d have no idea why the people in this movie go to
so much trouble in its pursuit. Sex looks like something to be
avoided, like  trans fats .  The characters include a Slovakian hooker, an Austrian
pimp, a Russian gangster and an array of philandering spouses
and lovers. Among the fine actors, in addition to Hopkins, are
 Jude Law ,  Rachel Weisz ,  Marianne Jean-Baptiste  and  Ben Foster .  The filmmakers’ principal device is to drop us among
circumstances so menacing that, when the very worst doesn’t
happen, we feel grateful that the human situation they’ve left
our noses pressed into is merely stinky.  Probably in homage to Schniztler, the movie opens and
closes in Vienna. Other locations include Bratislava, Paris,
London, Denver and Phoenix. Not one of them looks like anywhere
you’d want to be.  “360,” from  Magnolia Pictures , opens tomorrow in New York
and Los Angeles. Rating: ** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com . Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 