-- Apollo Global’s Profit Falls 84% on Decline in Holdings
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-08-02T13:35:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/apollo-global-s-profit-falls-84-on-decline-in-holdings.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , said second-quarter
profit fell 84 percent as global market declines hurt its share
of profits from investments.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to Apollo’s IPO last
year, fell to $18.7 million, or 5 cents a share, from $118
million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Apollo said
today in a statement. Analysts had  expected  a loss of 17 cents a
share, according to the average of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey.  Apollo follows  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in reporting lower
profit for the quarter as market swings hurt the value of some
holdings and slowed deals. Black, the chief executive officer,
is seeking investment opportunities outside of the traditional
leveraged-buyout business to reduce reliance on volatile
private-equity earnings.  Lower valuations in the firm’s sixth private-equity fund,
which began investing in 2006 with more than $10 billion,
“should preclude Apollo from distributing its share of interest
and dividends until valuations rebound,”  Howard Chen , an
analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note to clients
before earnings were released.  Apollo fell 1.6 percent to $13.77 at 9:32 a.m. in  New York .
Before today, the shares advanced 13 percent this year through
yesterday. They’ve fallen 26 percent from their March 2011
initial offering price of $19.  Carried Interest  Apollo’s economic net income doesn’t comply with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles. The net loss under
those standards, known as GAAP, narrowed to $41 million, or a
loss of 38 cents a share, from a loss of $51 million, or 46
cents, a year earlier.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about six years, overhaul and then sell them and return
the funds with a profit after about a decade. The firms, which
use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically
charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2
percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from
investments, known as carried interest.  Apollo’s carried interest income from private equity
dropped to $5.7 million from $139 million amid global declines
in the stock market.  Deals Decline  Assets under management rose 46 percent to $105 billion
from $71.7 billion a year earlier, driven by increases in
Apollo’s capital-market unit.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the second quarter fell 36 percent to about $101.5 billion from
a year earlier, with leveraged buyouts declining 39 percent to
about $21.7 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We live in a very uncertain and unstable world,” Black
said in May during a panel discussion at the Milken Institute
Global Conference. “The U.S. has a very tepid recovery going,
at best.”  The value of a private-equity firm’s buyout holdings
affects economic net income, or ENI, because the metric relies
on a quarterly “mark-to-market” valuations of those
investments. Accounting rules require the firms to value their
portfolio holdings each quarter.  Apollo won a month-long bidding war during the quarter for
Great Wolf Resorts Inc., the Madison, Wisconsin-based operator
of water parks across  North America . The deal was completed in
May at a value of about $740 million, 57 percent more than
Apollo’s initial offer on a per-share basis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  