-- Apple Says It Will Seek Sanctions Over Samsung Statement
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S c i n t a
-- 2012-08-03T00:15:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/apple-says-it-will-seek-sanctions-over-samsung-statement.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said a federal judge
should rule its phone patents were infringed by  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  after a lawyer for the Korean manufacturer
publicly released evidence the judge had excluded from trial.  Apple, in a filing yesterday with the U.S. District Judge
Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,  California , said the July 31 release was
designed to convey to jurors, through the media, arguments
rebutting Apple’s central allegations that Samsung copied the
iPhone and iPad. The move was “bad faith litigation
misconduct” meant to prejudice the jury, Apple said.  “Apple requests that the court issue sanctions granting
judgment that Apple’s asserted phone-design patent claims are
valid and infringed by Samsung,” according to the filing signed
by lawyer William Lee.  Samsung, in a filing today, said Apple’s request should be
rejected because it’s “ frivolous at every level,” and because
Samsung’s release was protected free speech.  The evidence fight between the companies is being conducted
without the jury, which on July 31 heard opening arguments in
the case. Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5
billion for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering
designs and technology for mobile devices. Samsung countersued
and will present claims that Apple is infringing two patents
covering mobile-technology standards and three utility patents.  Lawyer’s Statement  John Quinn , the Samsung attorney who approved the release
of the information, said in his own statement to the court that
is was done in response to a request from members of the media
and the information was already in public court filings made by
Samsung or Apple and wasn’t intended to prejudice the jury.  Shares of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung dropped
2.9 percent to 1,263,000 won at the close of trading in  Seoul ,
while the Kospi index fell 0.6 percent.  Koh on July 31 barred Samsung from presenting images of a
smartphone that Samsung claims it was developing in 2006, the
year before Apple introduced the iPhone. Koh rejected Samsung’s
request to reconsider her ruling for what she said was at least
the third time, standing by her earlier decision that the
evidence wasn’t “timely disclosed” in Samsung’s arguments
pertaining to patent infringement.  In its e-mailed statement that Apple objects to, Samsung
said that Koh’s ruling means it “was not allowed to tell the
jury the full story and show the pre-iPhone design for that and
other phones that were in development at Samsung in 2006, before
the iPhone.”  ‘Serious Misconduct’  Apple said that if Koh doesn’t simply rule that Samsung has
infringed the patent, alternatively she should tell the jury
Samsung engaged in “serious misconduct,” that she has found
Samsung copied the designs and features from Apple products, and
preclude Samsung from any further mention of evidence regarding
a pre-existing design.  In its filing today, Samsung said Apple’s request, for an
“unprecedented sanction,” was “improperly filed” because it
didn’t comply with court rules.  The request “can only be viewed as another plea that it be
relieved from its obligation to prove its claims to a jury,”
Samsung said in the filing.  The request assumes that jurors,
“already instructed by the court not to read media accounts,
will violate the court‘s instructions and do precisely that,’’
Samsung said.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Scinta in London at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  