-- ArcelorMittal’s Debt Cut to Junk by S&P on Steel Weakness
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-02T20:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/arcelormittal-s-debt-cut-to-junk-by-s-p-on-steel-weakness-1-.html
ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s bonds plunged and its
shares fell the most since September after the company had its
debt rating cut to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , a week after
saying an investment grade was a “strategic priority.”  The world’s biggest steelmaker’s long- and short-term
ratings were cut to BB+/B from BBB-/A-3 by S&P, which cited
uncertainty about its debt reduction plan and a weakening  steel
industry . ArcelorMittal said the downgrade was driven by a
change in S&P’s view of the “macro-economic environment.”  ArcelorMittal is seeking to  cut its debt  even as the steel
industry is roiled by deteriorating global growth that is
eroding demand. Steelmakers are reporting lower earnings as the
European crisis deepens and commodity prices weaken amid slowing
Chinese economic growth. The company’s net debt was $22 billion
at the end of the second quarter.  “We have various measures in place and a clear road-map to
reduce debt,” spokeswoman Nicola Davidson said in a telephone
interview today. “Investment-grade rating is important to us
and we will continue to follow a financial strategy based around
achieving investment-grade status.”  While the company has no immediate plans to alter its debt
reduction strategy, ArcelorMittal will not “rule anything
out,” Davidson said.  Bonds Fall  The company’s $1.4 billion of 4.5 percent notes maturing in
February 2017, which traded as high as 101.2 cents on the dollar
in May, dropped to 95.4 cents at 3:44 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. That’s the lowest since
the bonds were sold in February. ArcelorMittal dropped 8.8
percent to 11.905 euros by the close in Amsterdam trading, the
 biggest slump  since Sept. 22.  ArcelorMittal is selling assets, moving production to more
cost-efficient sites and idling some plants to cut its
obligations. A further reduction in net debt is targeted by the
end of 2012, the company said last week. A ratings downgrade
would cost about $100 million a year in interest payments, it
said.  Aditya Mittal, chief financial officer of the Luxembourg-
based company, said last week that an investment-grade rating
was “appropriate” for a company of ArcelorMittal’s size and
that retaining one was a “strategic priority.”  ArcelorMittal CDS  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of
ArcelorMittal surged to the highest since January, with credit-
default swaps tied to the company jumping 93.6 basis points to a
mid-price of 583.4 basis points at 4:02 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts closed
at 590.1 basis points on Jan. 9.  High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  