-- Argentina Makes a $2.2 Billion Final Payment on 2012 Bond
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-08-03T13:52:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/argentina-to-make-final-payment-on-2012-bonds-fernandez-says.html
Argentina  today made its final $2.2
billion payment on bonds issued to savers whose dollar-
denominated bank accounts were frozen by the government a decade
ago.  “We have finished paying,” the  Economy Ministry  said on
its website, where a digital display had shown the countdown to
the payment.  The disbursement closes a chapter for Argentina, which
issued the securities in 2002 after it limited withdrawals from
bank accounts and defaulted on $95 billion of debt. Owners of
dollar accounts were given the choice of accepting the so-called
Boden bonds, which are denominated in the U.S. currency, or
having their money converted into pesos.  “A historic cycle is coming to an end,” President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, 59, said last night in a speech
at the  Buenos Aires  stock exchange.  The floating-rate bonds have risen 2 percent to 12.42 cents
since June 12, when Fernandez said in a speech that the payment
would be made in dollars “as it should.” The securities had
dropped to as little as 12.07 cents on June 1 on speculation the
government, which is trying to reduce the use of the greenback
in  South America ’s second-largest economy, would make the
payment in pesos.  The government issued $17.4 billion of the bonds, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The debt has cost the country
$19.6 billion to pay, Economy Minister Hernan Lorenzino wrote in
an article circulated by state news agency Telam on Aug. 1.  Currency Restrictions  Since her re-election in October, Fernandez has forced
companies to repatriate export revenue and money invested
abroad, limited imports and banned most purchases of foreign
currency as she tries to shore up central bank reserves and stop
money from leaving the country.  Blocked from international credit markets since the
default, Argentina has tapped  international reserves  to pay
foreign debt. The government plans to use $5.7 billion this
year, after using $14.1 billion over the previous two years. The
bank’s holdings fell to $46.7 billion yesterday from as much as
$47.8 billion on April 27.  After two restructurings in 2005 and 2010, the government
has cut the ratio of debt to gross domestic product to 42
percent from 166 percent in 2002, according to Lorenzino.  Economic Growth  The economy  grew  an average 7.8 percent per year from 2003
to 2011, as it recovered from an 11 percent contraction in 2002.
The elimination of a 10-year currency system that pegged the
peso at par with the dollar helped local industry compete with
foreign goods, boosting production and exports. The peso trades
at 4.5860 per dollar.  “The payment shows that it’s possible to came out from a
terminal crisis with growth and without making people pay the
cost,” Lorenzino said in an interview with Buenos Aires
newspaper Ambito Financiero, which was posted on the
presidential website. “Our policy of reducing debt will
continue as a state policy.”  On June 12, the  World Bank  said that Argentina will undergo
the sharpest slowdown in  Latin America , expanding 2.2 percent
this year.  Since July 3, Lorenzino, 40, has sent daily tweets counting
down the time to tomorrow’s payment. He also set up three TV
screens in the Economy Ministry’s lobby and created a website
display showing the countdown days, hours, minutes and seconds.  Bond Yields  The  average yield  on international  government bonds  stood
at 12.48 percent yesterday from as high as 14.2 percent on May
30.  The cost of insuring Argentine bonds against default for
five years fell 16 basis points to 1,126 basis points, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the
buyer face value in exchange for the underlying securities or
the cash equivalent if a government or company fails to comply
with debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Argentine
government dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell 34 basis
points to 1,049 basis points today, data compiled by JPMorgan
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in Buenos Aires at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 