-- Arizona Sheriff Arpaio’s Racial Profiling Trial Ends
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/arizona-sheriff-s-civil-rights-trial-draws-to-close.html
The federal civil rights trial
against  Arizona ’s Sheriff Joe Arpaio ended as the judge sought
more information on arrest records before he decides whether the
sheriff’s office engaged in racial profiling of Latinos.  U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow in Phoenix, who presided
over the trial without a jury, also told lawyers yesterday he
needs more data on the operation plans for the sheriff’s so-
called saturation patrols in which his deputies are accused of
making racially motivated traffic stops.  Snow said that after lawyers submit their final written
arguments by Aug. 9 and rebuttal arguments a week later, he will
consider both the policies of the sheriff’s office and “what
the practices are, regardless of the policies.”  The lawsuit was brought on behalf of all Latinos who, since
January 2007, have been stopped, detained, questioned or
searched by sheriff office’s agents in Maricopa County. The
civil rights case is backed by the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and the Mexican Legal Defense and Education Fund.  The class-action lawsuit includes allegations similar to
those made by the U.S. Justice Department in a suit filed in May
against Arpaio, his office and the county. In its case, the U.S.
accuses Arpaio of “intentionally and systematically”
discriminating against Latinos.  Constitutional Rights  The plaintiffs seek a court ruling that their
constitutional rights were violated, including their right to
equal protection under the law and their right not to be subject
to unreasonable searches and seizures. They want the judge to
order changes in the sheriff’s office and to appoint a monitor
to oversee compliance.  Snow hasn’t said when he will issue a ruling.  The five named plaintiffs said in the lawsuit that deputies
discriminate against Latino residents, particularly in traffic
stops.  David Rodriguez, of Mesa, Arizona, testified July 19 that
in December 2007, while “four-wheeling” with his family on a
dirt road near Bartlett Dam, he inadvertently drove onto a
closed road, as did several other vehicles.  Rodriguez said he was cited by a deputy, while the other
drivers, all of whom Rodriguez described as white, weren’t
cited. Rodriguez said he believed he was cited because he is
Hispanic.  The judge also heard from two Maricopa County deputies who
denied ever racially profiling Latinos. They said they were told
to ignore the ethnicity of drivers when making traffic stops.  ‘Never a Basis’  “We were told that race was never a basis for making a
traffic stop,” Deputy Ramon Charley Armendariz said.  Douglas Beeks, a former deputy, said he had learned in
training, “If I see a Hispanic male driving down the road I do
not isolate him from other vehicles.”  Dan Pochoda, legal director for the ACLU of Arizona, said
in an Aug. 1 interview that while evidence from several
witnesses was circumstantial, “We think it all adds up.”  “The  Supreme Court  has said any evidence that has
probative value toward proving a pattern and practice of racial
profiling” can be considered by the court, Pochoda said.  Tom Liddy, a lawyer for Arpaio, said in an Aug. 1 interview
that the plaintiffs, “have not presented one single piece of
evidence of a single incident of racial profiling.”  “It is becoming abundantly clear how difficult it is to
connect the dots when there are no dots,” Liddy said.  Arpaio, who calls himself “America’s toughest sheriff,”
testified that his department doesn’t arrest people “because of
the color of their skin.”  Trial Witnesses  While many deputies had undergone training regarding racial
profiling, according to trial witnesses, Arpaio testified that
he hadn’t gone through the training.  That testimony, according to county supervisor Mary Rose Wilcox, a longtime political foe of Arpaio, “was very
telling.” Wilcox attended the trial daily.  “What we have seen depicted in this trial is a law agency
that has no real direction and often doesn’t operate in a
professional manner, like most law enforcement agencies do,”
Wilcox said. “The rank and file goes through immigration
traffic stop training but that the leadership of MCSO didn’t.
That says it.”  Bennie Click, a former Phoenix executive assistant police
chief and former Dallas police chief hired by the defense as an
expert witness, testified that Maricopa County’s training “far
exceeds” the standards set for Arizona’s law enforcement
agencies.  Cross-Examination  Click said that training strongly enforced the principle
that “officers will protect people’s constitutional rights.”  Pochoda asked Click yesterday during cross-examination
whether sheriff’s deputies had strong reasons not to engage in
racial profiling.  “It is against policy, it can get you fired, you can go to
prison,” Click said. “To go to prison or lose your job is a
major disincentive to racially profile.”  The case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Hermann in Phoenix at  aphoto61@cox.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  