-- N.Z. Dollar Gains After S&P Affirms Credit Rating
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-03T06:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/aussie-set-for-1st-weekly-drop-in-month-before-payrolls.html
New Zealand’s dollar rose, set for a
third weekly advance, after  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the
nation’s credit rating and said its outlook is stable.  The so-called kiwi climbed versus all but one of its 16
major counterparts this week. Australia’s currency pared a five-
day loss on prospects  Reserve Bank  officials will leave the
highest borrowing costs among major developed nations unchanged
at an Aug. 7 meeting. Demand for the South Pacific nations’
dollars was tempered before a report that may show hiring in the
U.S. failed to lower the  unemployment rate , sapping demand for
higher-yielding assets.  “The kiwi was slightly supported after S&P affirmed New
Zealand’s rating,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “I still think the risk is to the
downside. The kiwi will still be affected by concerns over the
global economy.”  New Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 81.32 U.S. cents
as of 4:37 p.m. in Sydney, set for a 0.4 percent advance this
week. It gained 0.4 percent to 63.64 yen today. The so-called
Aussie added 0.2 percent to $1.0485 and was little changed from
July 27. It rose 0.2 percent to 82.04 yen.  S&P affirmed New Zealand’s rating, citing its fiscal
flexibility, resilient economy and policy institutions conducive
to swift and decisive policy reform. “These strengths are
offset by its high external debt and weak external liquidity,”
the company said in a statement today.  RBA Bets  The Australian dollar pared its first weekly loss in a
month as investors reduced expectations for interest-rate cuts
when RBA officials meet next week. Swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg indicate a 79 percent chance officials will keep the
overnight cash rate target at 3.5 percent, up from 32 percent
odds seen on July 20.  All but one of 27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News say
the cash rate will be unchanged at next week’s gathering. One
called for a decline by 25 basis points to 3.25 percent.  The Aussie has advanced 5.4 percent in the past three
months, the best performance after the yen among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The kiwi was the third-biggest gainer, rising
4.9 percent in the same period.  Ten-year government note yields in  Australia  fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.12 percent. New
Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a fixed payment made to receive
floating rates, rose two basis points to 2.78 percent.  Gains in the Australian and New Zealand dollars were
limited on prospects unemployment in the U.S. remained above 8
percent.  Jobs Data  The  jobless rate  in the world’s biggest economy was
probably unchanged at 8.2 percent last month, even as payrolls
are predicted to have increased by 100,000, according to the
median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
figures from the Labor Department today. Employers added 80,000
jobs in June.  The  Federal Reserve  refrained from new action to stimulate
the  U.S. economy  when policy makers gathered this week.  “The Aussie will be subdued and there’ll be cautious
trading” before the data from the U.S., said  Andrew Salter , a
currency strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “We’re expecting the Aussie dollar to edge lower as
it eventually reflects the cycle in global growth, which is
quite weak at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  