-- Aussie, New Zealand Dollars Climb to Record Highs Against Euro
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-08-02T21:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/aussie-new-zealand-dollars-climb-to-record-highs-against-euro.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
dollars rose to record highs against the euro as the shared
currency tumbled versus after the  European Central Bank 
disappointed investors hoping for more steps to combat the
region’s debt crisis.  New Zealand’s currency rose against all of its 16 most-
traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after whole-milk powder
prices climbed for the first time in six weeks. The Aussie
dollar gained versus most peers as data showed improvement in
retail sales and trade, boosting prospects the  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  will leave  interest rates  unchanged next week.
Commodities and stocks fell after the ECB meeting.  “With this risk-off scenario, I would have expected the
commodities to have pared a wee bit more,”  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp. said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Australia’s dollar climbed to a record A$1.1606 per euro
yesterday in New York before trading at A$1.1640. The Aussie was
little changed at $1.0465 and declined 0.2 percent to 81.88 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, reached a record
NZ$1.4995 per euro before trading at NZ$1.5035. The kiwi
appreciated 0.3 percent to 81.02 U.S. cents. It was little
changed at 63.39 yen.  The market focus will now shift to the U.S., Popplewell
said. The Labor Department will report today that American
payrolls added 100,000 jobs last month, after an increase of
80,000 in June, a Bloomberg News survey forecast.  Seeking Exit  “If the number comes in extremely soft, I think whatever
risk-on trades that are still out there, they will certainly be
looking toward the exit, and that will certainly hurt the
commodity currencies,” Popplewell said.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell 1.6 percent, and the Standard & Poor’s stock  index  dropped
as much as 1.5 percent.  Retail sales in Australia climbed 1 percent in June after a
revised 0.8 percent advance in the previous month, the Bureau of
Statistics said yesterday. The nation had a trade surplus of A$9
million ($9.4 million) in the same period, versus estimates for
a A$375 million shortfall, a separate report showed.  Milk-powder prices for October delivery increased 4.5
percent, according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra
Cooperative Group Ltd.’s GlobalDairyTrade website. Auckland-
based Fonterra accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade
in dairy products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  