-- Australian Retail Sales Match Biggest Gain Since 2011: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-02T04:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/australian-retail-sales-rose-more-than-forecast-in-june.html
Australian  retail sales  in June
matched the biggest advance since April 2011 and exports fell
for the first time in four months, signaling the nation’s
economic growth is increasingly reliant on domestic demand.  Sales climbed 1 percent to A$21.6 billion ($22.6 billion)
from a month earlier, when they rose a revised 0.8 percent that
was stronger than initially reported, the Bureau of Statistics
said in Sydney today. That exceeded the median  forecast  in a
Bloomberg survey for a 0.7 percent gain. Another report showed
an unexpected  trade surplus  in June as fuel imports declined.  Retail sales have been fueled by A$2 billion in government
carbon rebates and benefit checks paid out since May, as well as
four interest-rate cuts since November.  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  left the benchmark rate
unchanged last month, saying its 75 basis points in reductions
in May and June to 3.5 percent will buttress the strongest
developed economy as growth slows from India to Germany.  “It’s a great outcome for the central bank because there’s
lots of sales without generating inflation,” said  Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in Sydney who
predicted the result. “The cash handouts were very influential
in what’s happened in June and there was also the rate cut at
the start of the month and petrol prices were sharply weaker.”  The local dollar, which has risen 8 percent since June 1,
traded at $1.0483 at 2:36 p.m. in Sydney, compared with $1.0456
before the data. Traders are pricing in a 79 percent chance
Stevens will leave rates on hold at a policy meeting next week,
according to Bloomberg data based on swaps trading.  Department Stores  Spending at department stores rose 3.4 percent, and
consumers spent 1.8 percent more on clothing, footwear and
accessories, today’s report showed. They spent 0.2 percent less
on household goods, it showed.  Retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, increased 1.4
percent in the three months through June from the previous
quarter, the report showed. Economists had forecast a 0.9
percent increase.  Australia’s largest electrical-goods chain,  Harvey Norman
Holdings Ltd. (HVN) , said lower-income areas that received rebates are
outperforming richer neighborhoods, while biggest retailer
 Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  said less-affluent shoppers were buying Apple
Inc.’s iPad.  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) ’s Target chain, the country’s largest
department-store network with 301 outlets, put in its best
performance in at least 2 1/2 years in the three months through
June, the company said July 26. Sales at stores open at least 12
months rose 4.5 percent from a year earlier, Wesfarmers said.
The measure declined in eight out of the previous nine quarters.  Trade Balance  Today’s trade report showed exports outpaced imports by A$9
million, from a revised A$313 million deficit in May. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey was for a deficit of A$375
million. The April balance was revised to a A$20 million surplus
from a previously reported deficit of A$26 million.  Exports were little changed at A$26.63 billion, today’s
report showed. Imports declined 2 percent to A$26.62 billion on
a 20 percent fall in fuel and lubricants, the report showed.  “The weakening evident in Asian manufacturing at the start
of the third quarter, may see some further downward pressure on
hard commodity prices over the same period,” said  Glenn
Maguire , principal of  Asia  Sentry Advisory Pty Ltd., in an e-
mailed note after the data.  Resource Boom  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since prospectors set off a gold rush in the 1850s. The
latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural gas -- is
bringing investment projects the government estimates to be
worth A$500 billion. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 5.2
percent in June, is lower than 8.2 percent in the U.S. and 11.2
percent in the euro area.  In Asia, the  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index was little changed at
118.13 at 1:36 p.m. in Tokyo, after earlier this week touching a
three-week high of 118.82.  Later today in  Europe , the  Bank of England  and the  European
Central Bank  are forecast to keep rates unchanged at meetings,
separate surveys by Bloomberg News showed. The BOE will refrain
from changing its asset purchase target from £375 billion,
according to the median estimate of a survey of economists.  A producer-price index in the euro area probably fell 0.4
percent in June from a month earlier, a survey of economists
showed before a report scheduled to be released today. That
would compare with a 0.5 percent decline the previous month.  Unemployment Benefits  In the U.S., first-time claims for  unemployment benefits 
are expected to rise to 370,000 in the week ended July 28,
according to the median estimate of 46 economists polled.  In Australia, which has avoided a recession since 1991, the
mining boom driven largely by surging Chinese steel production
helped it ride out the 2008 financial crisis. Still, the retail
industry weakened last year, reflecting seven rate increases in
13 months to contain inflation, as well as growing concerns
about the global economy.  “The apparent strength of export volumes in the quarter
suggest they are unlikely to detract as much as we thought from
gross domestic product and the retail numbers suggest
consumption was even firmer than our forecast,” RBC’s Turner
said. “It looks like growth was tracking slightly above trend
in the quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  