-- Australian Services Industry Contracts for Sixth Straight Month
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-08-02T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/australian-services-industry-contracts-for-sixth-straight-month.html
Australia ’s services industry shrank
in July for a sixth straight month as companies struggled to
adjust to the currency’s renewed strength, a private survey
showed.  The performance of services  index  declined 2.3 points to
46.5 last month,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the
Australian Industry Group said in Sydney today. Fifty is the
dividing line between expansion and contraction.  The Australian dollar has appreciated more than 7 percent
since the start of June, when the central bank made its fourth
reduction in  interest rates  since November to help insulate the
economy from potential shocks in  Europe  and a slowdown in China.
Governor  Glenn Stevens  kept  borrowing costs  unchanged last month
at 3.5 percent, the most among major developed nations. Higher
yields and a mining investment boom are attracting investors and
driving up the currency, hurting industries like tourism,
manufacturing and services.  “The latest services sector snapshot mirrors the multi-
speed growth rates being posted across industries and regions
around the nation at present as the economy undergoes
significant structural adjustment due to the high Australian
dollar,” Commonwealth Bank senior economist John Peters said in
a statement.  Today’s report showed the index’s gauge for sales fell to
48.5 from 50.6, and the reading for new orders slid to 46.6 from
50.3. The employment indicator dropped to 44.3 from 49.1, the
report showed.  Selling prices rose to 44.2 from 43.1, while the wages
measure surged to 62.2 from 55.3, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  