-- BAE Signals Armored Vehicle Slowdown Approaching Low-Point
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-08-02T11:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bae-profit-beats-estimates-as-efficiency-drive-offsets-cutbacks.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  Chief Executive
Officer Ian King said demand for armored vehicles may be
reaching the bottom after  Europe ’s largest weapons maker
suffered a shortfall in sales.  BAE had a 14 percent drop at its U.S. land and systems
business in the first half, the London-based company said today.
Overall, sales fell 9.8 percent to 8.3 billion pounds ($12.9
billion). Analysts estimated 9.1 billion pounds. BAE fell as
much as 3.3 percent in London trading as disappointing revenue
overshadowed better-than-estimated profit.  “For the full year, BAE must demonstrate that the revenue
weakness in the first half can be made up, something management
appears to be confident of,” Rupinder Vig, an analyst at  Morgan
Stanley (MS) , said in a note to clients.  King has been using cost cuts and efficiency improvements
to battle shrinking state defense budgets. Further action will
become necessary unless the  U.S. Congress  and President  Barack Obama  take action to avoid another $500 billion in defense
spending cuts due to take effect in January. BAE generated more
than 40 percent of revenue from the U.S. last year.  Shares of BAE Systems were trading down 2.8 pence at 309.6
pence, at 11:20 a.m. in London, after dropping as much as 3.3
percent earlier. BAE, the builder of the U.K.’s two new aircraft
carriers, has advanced 8.7 percent this year, valuing the
company at 10 billion pounds.  BAE has made a series of disposals in recent months,
including in the land-systems division. King said efforts to
“tidy up” the company will continue, but that no major
divestments are planned.  U.S. Cuts  King added that the company has planned for U.S. defense
cuts of $600 billion, beyond the $487 billion already
implemented, and is ready to “be very agile” should more
reductions become necessary.  “BAE Systems is operating in a challenging environment,”
said King. The company is “taking the actions necessary to
reduce cost, protect and grow margins and generate good  cash
flow .”  Given the clouded U.S. defense spending outlook, a buyback
program is not on the agenda for this year, said Finance
Director Peter Lynas.  Sales were down on lower support sales in the U.K. as the
government reviews its force structure plans for the Army. “We
are taking the action to accelerate some rationalization from
2013 into 2012,” King said.  Pentagon Order  While sales for Medium Mine Protected Vehicles are shifting
to 2013 from 2012, the company said it has finalized a contract
for $645 million with the Pentagon for Bradley armored vehicle
work.  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization, excluding
one-time items, fell to 939 million pounds, beating the 903.4
million-pound average estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  BAE confirmed its full-year guidance of modest earnings per
share growth. Lower full-year sales will be offset by greater
efficiency, Lynas said. BAE has 97 percent of 2012 sales already
in the orderbook and more than 90 percent for 2013, he said.
“We are not looking for a lot of new awards to meet the
guidance.”  The guidance assumes long-running pricing negotiations with
 Saudi Arabia  over the sale of Eurofighter Typhoon fighter
aircraft is resolved. Saudi Arabia already has 24 of the twin-
engine fighters built by BAE,  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  and European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. BAE said the price escalation
contract will be finalized this year.  The delivery of 48 additional Typhoons to Saudi Arabia will
resume next year, and production is already underway, King said.  Saudi Deals  Other deals with Saudi Arabia are under discussion,
including contracts to support Typhoon and Tornado fighters.
Negotiations should be completed this year with Saudi Arabia for
training services to the  air force  and to sell weapons for both
fighter jets, said Guy Griffith, managing director of the
company’s international business.  Commercial discussions with Oman over the sale of a dozen
Typhoon fighters will begin early next month, King said, with
the goal of finalizing a deal before year-end.  BAE’s cyber and intelligence unit had the fastest first-
half growth, with revenue rising 9.7 percent. The U.S.
cybersecurity business has seen a slowdown, offset by the
prospect of as much as $2 billion in potential new contracts for
BAE, King said. Internal spending to bolster the division will
see margins toward the lower end of the 8.5 percent to 9.5
percent earnings margin guidance, Lynas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  