-- Barcelona Joins Chelsea, Real in Neymar Chase: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-02T07:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/barcelona-joins-chelsea-real-in-neymar-chase-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Neymar Chase  Barcelona joined Chelsea and Real Madrid in the race to
sign 20-year-old Brazilian striker Neymar, the  Daily Express
reported , citing Barca vice-president Jose Maria Bartomeu.  “We would all like to see him joining after the
Olympics,” the Express cited Bartomeu as saying. “If he
decides to come to  Europe  we’ll try to make it Barca.”  Real Wants Dembele  Spanish champion Real wants to sign Fulham midfielder
Moussa Dembele for 10 million pounds ($15.5 million), the  Sun
reported . Real coach  Jose Mourinho  wants the Belgian
international to help fight off the title threat from Barcelona
next season, the Sun added.  Blues Bid  Chelsea had a 5.4 million-pound bid for Spanish defender
Cesar Azpilicueta rejected by Marseille, which wants 8 million
pounds, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The European champion is likely to increase its offer for
the 22-year-old right-back in the next few days, the Mirror
added.  Cazorla’s Medical  Malaga midfielder Santi Cazorla is scheduled to have a
medical at Arsenal this week once a transfer fee of 17.3 million
pounds is agreed, the  Daily Mail reported .  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  was beaten to the signature
of the 27-year-old Spanish international last year by Malaga,
the newspaper added.  Spurs Want Stekelenburg  Tottenham Hotspur is making a bid for Netherlands
international goalkeeper Maarten Stekelenburg, who is valued at
8 million pounds by his club Roma, the  Mail reported .  Stekelenburg is keen on the move and the only sticking
point is the Italian club’s valuation of a player it paid 5
million pounds for last year, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  