-- Baucus Adds One-Year Extension of Wind Tax Credit to Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-02T14:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/baucus-adds-one-year-extension-of-wind-tax-credit-to-proposal.html
A one-year extension through 2013 of
the production tax credit for  wind energy  will be added to a
Senate proposal to extend miscellaneous expiring tax breaks.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Finance Committee, added the wind extension to what is
now a $205.1 billion package of tax breaks scheduled for a
committee vote today. Baucus had developed the proposal with
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of Utah, the panel’s top Republican, marking
a rare bipartisan agreement on tax policy.  “By working together here today, we’re proving we still
have the capacity to do what our bosses, that is the American
people, sent us here to do,” Baucus said. “That is: Get things
done.”  In the changes made today, Baucus also dropped from the
package a tax break for redeveloping contaminated sites and
added an extension of a benefit for owners of motorsports
racetracks.  Baucus also added a provision that would prevent the reach
of the alternative minimum tax from expanding in 2013. The
previous proposal had limited the reach of the parallel tax
system for 2012 only.  The alternative minimum tax, initially designed to prevent
high-income households from avoiding all taxes legally,
disproportionately affects people in high-income states with
heavy tax burdens, including New York, New Jersey and
California.  Tax Breaks  The bill, known as the tax extenders package, would revive
dozens of tax breaks that lapsed at the end of 2011 and extend
them through 2013. Among those benefiting from the breaks are
financial-services companies that operate outside the U.S.,
companies that conduct corporate research and some restaurant
owners.  Companies including  General Electric Co. (GE) , Citigroup Inc.
and  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  are among those lobbying for extensions of
expired provisions. Some tax benefits, including those for
investment in the  District of Columbia , wouldn’t be extended
under the plan.  Hatch said he would have preferred to eliminate more tax
breaks and said lawmakers will have to make difficult choices in
the future.  ‘Dry Run’  “It is a dry run for the fundamental  tax reform  that we
know must come and will come,” he said.  The potential lapse of the wind tax credit has curtailed
investment in wind energy. To qualify for the credit, wind
turbines must be placed in service by the end of 2012, meaning
that development of projects that can’t be accomplished by Dec.
31 has slowed.  For 2013, Baucus proposed changing that definition, so that
wind and other alternative-energy projects could qualify for the
credit if they start construction, not begin operation, by the
end of the year.  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, yesterday said
he would block a vote on the package. The panel meeting is still
scheduled to occur. It was unclear what agreement, if any,
Coburn and Baucus had reached.  Coburn filed amendments that would eliminate or limit tax
breaks in the bill, including to prevent a tax credit for
redevelopment of struggling areas to be used for  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) 
or  DineEquity Inc. (DIN) ’s International House of Pancakes.  Turning the committee’s proposal into law won’t happen
quickly. Congress will leave Washington at the end of the week
for a recess that will last until Sept. 10. The House of
Representatives has been examining the list of expired breaks
and doesn’t expect to consider the extensions until after the
Nov. 6 election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  