-- Berkshire Benefits as Buffett Wagers on U.S. Housing
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-08-02T05:49:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/berkshire-benefits-as-buffett-wagers-on-u-s-housing.html
Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is benefiting
after billionaire Chairman  Warren Buffett  increased investments
tied to the U.S. housing market and sidestepped bets on  Europe 
amid the region’s debt crisis.  Berkshire’s Class A shares  rose  this week to the highest in
16 months. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company, which is expected
to report second-quarter earnings tomorrow, is about 3 percent
away from the top closing price since 2008.  Buffett added to  holdings  of  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest
U.S. home lender, bought real-estate brokers and bid on mortgage
assets of bankrupt Residential Capital LLC as he bets on a
rebound in housing in the world’s largest economy. Rather than
spend his company’s cash pile on European companies after a 2008
trip to the region, he made his largest  acquisitions  in the
U.S., including  Fort Worth , Texas-based railroad Burlington
Northern  Santa Fe .  “I don’t know if he’s lucky, smart or patriotic, but it’s
worked out for him,”  Cliff Gallant , an analyst at KBW Inc.,
said in a phone interview. He estimates that Berkshire will post
an  operating profit  of $1,750 a share for the second quarter, a
6.7 percent increase from a year earlier.  The economy in the 17-nation euro area may contract this
year as governments institute austerity measures to lower
borrowing costs, according to the median estimate of 35 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Buffett said last month that Europe’s
monetary union may fracture if its leaders can’t rewrite their
rules, while U.S. housing was beginning to show signs of a
rebound after the worst crash in seven decades.  Housing Improves  “For the last two years, I’ve seen everything except
housing moving forward in the economy,” Buffett, 81, told  Betty Liu  in a July 13 interview on Bloomberg Television. “In the
last few months, the rest of the economy actually has flattened
out. Housing is picking up.”  The number of available U.S. homes has been declining, a
trend Buffett has said was inevitable as new households form.
Properties for sale fell to 2.39 million in June from an average
supply of 2.93 million in 2011 and 3.22 million in 2010, data
from the National Association of Realtors show.  A turn in the housing market will benefit Berkshire’s
businesses tied to home building and repair, said Josh Brown,
who helps oversee $350 million at Fusion Analytics Investment
Partners LLC in  New York , including Berkshire shares.  “Buffett has spent the past decade amassing a portfolio of
companies that are involved with home remodeling,” he said in a
phone interview. “It’s got the right drivers if this housing
trend continues.”  Berkshire Businesses  Berkshire’s  subsidiaries  include Acme Brick Co., paint
maker Benjamin Moore & Co., builder Clayton Homes and carpet
manufacturer  Shaw Industries . The firm has stakes in some of the
country’s largest mortgage lenders, including U.S. Bancorp and
 Bank of America Corp.  The Wells Fargo stake was valued at more
than $13 billion at the end of March, making it the second-
biggest holding in the company’s stock portfolio.  “When we compare Berkshire to the macro economy, there’s
more exposure to housing,”  Meyer Shields , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview. “That should
mitigate some of the other disappointing areas of the economy.”  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter from 2 percent in the first three months of the year as
limited job growth prompted Americans to curb spending, U.S.
Commerce Department data released July 27 showed. Federal
Reserve policy makers said yesterday that “economic activity
decelerated somewhat over the first half of this year.”  Buffett’s Deals  Buffett struck a deal last August to buy preferred stock
and warrants for $5 billion in Bank of America, the second-
largest U.S. lender, after its shares plunged amid costs tied to
soured mortgages. A month later, the billionaire said he
wouldn’t come to the aid of European lenders in need of capital.  Berkshire offered to buy ResCap for $1 before it entered
 bankruptcy protection  in May. Buffett’s firm is set to be the
lead bidder for the company’s loan portfolio in a court-
supervised auction this year. Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc.,
backed by Fortress Investment Group LLC, will be the first
bidder for ResCap’s mortgage servicing and underwriting
business, which Berkshire had also sought.  Buffett has favored the U.S. for larger acquisitions. He
hasn’t announced any deals valued at more than $1 billion for
European companies after visiting  Germany ,  Switzerland ,  Spain 
and  Italy  in 2008 to scout potential targets.  U.S. Acquisitions  Berkshire’s 2010 buyout of Burlington Northern for $26.5
billion was an “all-in wager” on the  U.S. economy , Buffett has
said. The firm spent about $9 billion last year for Wickliffe,
Ohio-based Lubrizol Corp.  A recession in Europe could still hurt Berkshire because it
has subsidiaries that operate there as well as bullish
derivative bets on equity indexes in the region, said Shields.
Lubrizol has struck deals to buy at least two companies in Spain
since being acquired by Berkshire in September.  European leaders are deepening their ties in response to
the sovereign debt crisis by collaborating on bailouts and
insisting on budget-deficit curbs. Buffett said last month that
the number of nations involved has made action more difficult.  “The system that they put in place had a fundamental fatal
flaw” of a common currency without a common fiscal policy,
Buffett said on Bloomberg Television in July. “It can’t survive
with the present rules. That’s what they’re learning. The
question is: Can 17 countries get together in a way to
essentially redo something?”  Still, Buffett’s company may be benefiting from a “flight
to quality” as Europe’s troubles worsen, Shields said.
Berkshire had a $37.8 billion  cash hoard  at the end of March.  Investors may be speculating that Buffett will be able to
cut deals amid market dislocations that boost shareholder
returns, said Shields. Berkshire took stakes in  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , General Electric Co. and Swiss Re Ltd. during the
2008 financial crisis. The securities were redeemed last year
for more than $12 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  