-- Oil-Tanker Pool Seeks Return to Single-Voyage Cargoes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-08-02T12:14:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/biggest-oil-tanker-pool-seeks-return-to-single-voyage-cargoes.html
Tankers International LLC , operator
of the largest pool of the biggest oil carriers, wants to shift
hiring of its vessels back to single-voyage charters from
longer-duration accords to increase returns.  The company decided it is carrying too little crude in the
spot market, as single voyages are known in the industry, non-
executive Chairman Morten Arntzen said yesterday on a conference
call. He was speaking in his role as chief executive officer of
 Overseas Shipholding Group Inc. (OSG) , one of the owners contributing
vessels to the pool.  “That was negatively impacting our trading flexibility and
results,” Arntzen said. “So we are determined to shift that.
We intend to continue to function as a key provider for our
Chinese clients, but we also have a greater spot focus.”  Tankers International is the joint marketer and operator
for 42 very large crude carriers from eight companies including
New York-based OSG and  Euronav NV (EURN) , located in Antwerp,  Belgium ,
its website shows. The fleet includes at least nine VLCCs from
OSG, the biggest U.S. tanker owner, according to the site.  “We think we should have been doing better,” Arntzen said
of returns from OSG’s vessels in the pool. A return to greater
emphasis on the  spot market  will result in a “relatively better
performance” he said.  The company is discussing extending or changing a contract
with China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp.
that’s scheduled to expire in April, Arntzen said. Unipec, as
the company is known, is the trading division of  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (600028) , the country’s largest oil refiner.  VLCC Returns  Arntzen spoke after OSG released second-quarter results.
The company’s net loss widened to $55.3 million, or $1.83 a
share, from $37.3 million, or $1.24 a share, a year earlier. OSG
generated 24 percent of shipping revenue from participating in
pools in the second quarter, a  statement  showed.  The company’s shares fell 73 percent in the past year to
$5.75 in  New York , giving it a market value of $177.4 million.  VLCCs aged under 15 years returned $27,451 a day, against
$20,400 a year earlier, the company said. The global VLCC fleet
consists of 600 vessels, according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s
biggest shipbroker. Each of the tankers can hold 2 million
barrels of crude.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  