-- BNP’s Second-Quarter Net Beat Estimates as Bank Met Capital Goal
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-02T12:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bnp-paribas-second-quarter-profit-declines-13-on-lower-trading.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s largest
bank, posted a smaller-than-estimated drop in second-quarter
profit, helped by an accounting gain, and met its capital-
boosting goal earlier than expected.  The shares rose as much as 3.6 percent in Paris after BNP
Paribas said net income fell 13 percent to 1.85 billion euros
($2.26 billion), beating the 1.65 billion-euro average estimate
of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Profit was bolstered by
a 286 million-euro gain in the quarter from a revaluation of its
own debt. The bank also said it’s ahead of schedule in reaching
a goal of a 9 percent core capital ratio under Basel III rules.  “It has been quite rapid and it’s positive,” said Jean- Pierre Lambert, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette and Woods Ltd. in
 London  who rates the shares market perform.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Laurent Bonnafe, who took over
last year, has embarked on asset cuts to comply with stricter
capital rules, mirroring similar moves by other large European
banks. The Paris-based firm’s core capital target under Basel
III rules has been “virtually” achieved by the end of June,
six months in advance, he said in the statement.  BNP Paribas, hurt by last year’s liquidity crunch and
losses on Greek sovereign debt, joined smaller French rivals
 Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole  SA in shrinking balance
sheets and slashing sovereign debt holdings. The lender boosted
its capital level with retained earnings and asset disposals.  “While it’s not a party environment, BNP Paribas has taken
all the measures to resist” the crisis,  Francois Chaulet , who
helps manage 250 million euros at Montsegur Finance in Paris,
including BNP shares, said before the results were announced.  Capital Rules  BNP Paribas rose 3.1 percent to 31.64 euros as of 2:20 p.m.
in Paris. Before today, it had fallen 30 percent in the past 12
months, giving the bank a market value of 38.5 billion euros.
 Societe Generale , France’s second-largest bank, slid 46 percent
over the period.  France’s biggest lenders are cutting at least 300 billion
euros off their balance sheets to comply with stricter Basel III
capital rules, mirroring similar moves by other European lenders
such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s biggest.  BNP Paribas began trimming its balance sheet last year as
 capital requirements  and funding costs increased. The bank at
the end of June achieved 90 percent of its planned 79 billion
euros cuts in risk-weighted assets, mostly at the corporate- and
investment-banking, or CIB,  division . The French firm is also
cutting 1,400 CIB jobs.  BNP Paribas joins competitors including Germany’s Deutsche
Bank, Europe’s largest investment bank by revenue, in reporting
earnings curbed by weaker markets. Deutsche Bank said on July 31
that second-quarter pretax profit at its securities unit slid 63
percent. Societe Generale yesterday said that net income at the
CIB division fell 71 percent in the quarter.  ‘Strong Volatility’  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Bank of America Corp., Citigroup
Inc.,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley had combined
first-half revenue of $161 billion, down 4.5 percent from 2011
and the lowest since $135 billion four years ago.  Investment banks are trimming workforces and reining in
costs as the debt crisis curbs trading and leads to a slump in
stock and bond offerings.  “Against a general backdrop of the crisis in the  capital
markets  and strong volatility, there was less demand from
clients and the businesses were managed cautiously,” BNP
Paribas said in the statement.  Pretax profit at BNP Paribas’s CIB unit declined 40 percent
to 821 million euros, beating analysts’ estimate of 748 million
euros. Revenue from equity and advisory operations slid 46
percent, while fixed-income sales dropped 25 percent.  Sovereign Debt  Corporate-lending revenue, also part of the CIB division,
fell 8.4 percent to 1.02 billion euros, while it had 75 million
euros of gains from the disposal of portfolios, the bank said.  BNP also booked 90 million euros of one-time losses from
sales of sovereign bonds in the second quarter, it said.  The bank, which took 3.2 billion euros in writedowns on
Greek government debt last year, has rushed to cut its sovereign
debt holdings in most European countries since mid-2011 to help
protect capital levels.  Funding exposures to units outside of France have been
among elements weighing on the shares of BNP Paribas,  Credit
Agricole (ACA) , Societe Generale and  Natixis (KN)  SA. The four French banks
provided about 150 billion euros from businesses at home to fund
their operations in  Italy ,  Spain ,  Portugal ,  Greece  and Ireland,
according to Morgan Stanley estimates.  Italian Unit  “We don’t have funding gaps,” Bonnafe said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. “Italy and Spain are two
very different businesses for us.” While in Italy BNP runs “a
domestic bank,” its business in Spain “is basically a branch
in which we are financing global international Spanish
customers.”  BNP Paribas’s group provides about 18 billion euros in
funding to its Italian unit, BNL, Bonnafe said.  “It’s really not a worry,” he said.  BNP Paribas may narrow a 40 billion-euro funding gap in
Italy and Spain by moving some loans in those countries to
deposit-rich  Belgium  and Switzerland, three people familiar with
the matter said July 2. BNP Paribas Fortis, the Belgian unit,
said July 5 that it plans to reinforce the Brussels hub for
corporate banking, including trade finance, extending coverage
to countries like Spain and Germany. The plan won’t cover  France 
or Italy, the company said.  French banks had $334 billion euros in public and private
debt holdings in Italy and $115 billion in Spain as of the end
of March, Bank for International Settlements figures show.  Retail Banking  BNP Paribas gets most of its revenue from France, Belgium,
 Luxembourg  and Italy and the company also owns BancWest, a
network of branches in the U.S. Through its purchase of Fortis
in 2009, overseen by Bonnafe, the lender also added clients in
faster-growing economies such as  Turkey .  BNP’s total retail-banking pretax profit was 1.64 billion
euros in the second quarter, 0.7 percent higher than last year,
the bank said. Earnings at the French branch network gained 0.9
percent to 558 million euros and Belgian retail banking pretax
profit climbed 35 percent to 174 million euros.  BNP Paribas’s Italian retail-banking network, Banca
Nazionale del Lavoro, had second-quarter pretax earnings of 132
million euros, down 8.3 percent from a year earlier and beating
analysts’ estimates for 110 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  