-- BNP Paribas’s Funding Gap in Italy, Spain Tops $37 Billion
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i
-- 2012-08-02T15:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bnp-paribas-s-funding-gap-in-italy-spain-tops-37-billion.html
BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  France ’s largest
bank, provides at least 30 billion euros ($37 billion) of parent
funding support to its operations in  Italy  and  Spain , an amount
it is trying to shrink to meet new liquidity rules.  “These exposures drag like millstones hanging around their
neck,” said Jacques-Pascal Porta, who helps manage 500 million
euros at Ofi Gestion Privee in Paris and owns shares in BNP
Paribas. “In reality, reducing these financings is a way to
face euro implosion risks.”  The attempt to pullback reflects the bank’s effort to
defend itself against the risk, however remote, of an exit from
the euro of any of the euro-region’s troubled countries. Concern
about a breakdown of the euro was heightened last month as
Spanish and Italian government bond yields soared.  BNP Paribas’s “overall funding gap to Spanish affiliates”
is less than 7 billion euros and total cross-border funding to
Italian operations, including its branch network Banca Nazionale
de Lavoro, or BNL, and consumer-finance unit Findomestic, is
about 25 billion euros, Chief Operating Officer Philippe Bordenave said on a call with analysts today.  “We have progressively re-localized the funding policy,”
Bordenave said. “We are adapting the way we are working.”  Operation Details  BNP Paribas’s funding support to Rome-based BNL has fallen
to 18 billion euros from close to 30 billion euros at the end of
2010 and the French bank will keep reducing it, Bordenave said.  In Italy, BNP Paribas also runs Findomestic, a unit
providing vehicle leasing and personal credit, which has about
10 billion euros in assets, the COO said.  BNP Paribas plans to cut funding support to BNL through
securitizations and selling debt securities to savers locally,
the COO said. BNL is also resuming debt issuances under its own
name, Bordenave said.  In Spain, BNP Paribas businesses include about 15 billion
euros of corporate loans and a 50 percent stake in mortgages
company UCI, a joint venture with Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
according to a  2012 presentation  on the bank’s website. UCI has
assets of 11.8 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  