-- BofA Says Libor Probe Draws U.S. Subpoenas on Submissions
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bofa-says-libor-probe-draws-u-s-subpoenas-on-submissions.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. bank, received formal inquiries from investigators
pressing their probe into the possible rigging of a key
international lending benchmark.  The bank received subpoenas and requests for information
from the  U.S. Department of Justice , Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and U.K. Financial Services Authority, the firm said
yesterday in a filing. Bank of America also said regulators have
asked whether the company properly oversaw vendors who sold
identity-theft protection products to its customers.  Inquiries involve “submissions made by panel banks in
connection with the setting of London interbank offered rates
and European and other interbank offered rates,”  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Bank of America said in the filing.  Regulators have queried at least a dozen banks worldwide
about their roles in setting Libor, the most widely used
benchmark for  interest rates , affecting more than $360 trillion
in financial products. U.S. prosecutors are preparing to file
charges later this year against traders from banks involved in a
bid-rigging scheme to manipulate Libor, a person with knowledge
of the case has said.  Bank of America said it’s cooperating with regulators and
that it has been named as a defendant, along with other Libor-
setting banks, in lawsuits from investors who may have incurred
losses on assets tied to the benchmark.  Firms involved in setting Libor face mounting legal claims.
Berkshire Bank, a New York lender with 11 branches, sued 21
banks including Bank of America,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
for damages, alleging that Libor fraud lowered interest payments
it received.  Record Fine  Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  stepped
down last month after his firm was fined a record 290 million
pounds ($450 million) for rigging the rate.  Bank of America plans to post a third-quarter charge of
about $800 million related to a decrease in the U.K. corporate
tax rate, according to yesterday’s filing. The change means the
value of deferred tax assets will be diminished, the firm said.  The lender also said it will contribute $738 million to
settle a price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-card
swipe fees. Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc., the world’s biggest
payment networks, and some of the largest U.S. banks agreed last
month to pay merchants $6.6 billion and temporarily reduce
credit-card swipe fees, or interchange, to settle the antitrust
lawsuit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
 Rick Green  in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  