-- BofA Claim Surge Said to Include Non-Countrywide Loans
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-08-02T23:39:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bofa-s-surge-in-refund-claims-said-tied-to-non-countrywide-loans.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s surging
claims for refunds on faulty mortgages in the second quarter
stemmed partly from loans made by the bank and its Merrill Lynch
unit, in addition to the company’s Countrywide subsidiary, said
two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The backlog of  new claims  from private investors probably
will increase in the months ahead, according to the people, who
asked for anonymity because mortgage disputes are private. The
firm regards grounds for the demands as weaker than those
triggered by Countrywide loans, the people said.  Bank of America said last month that total demands for
buybacks from mortgage-bond investors and insurers surged more
than 40 percent in three months to $22.7 billion. The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company, ranked second by assets among U.S.
lenders, has already committed more than $40 billion to resolve
disputes on faulty loans and foreclosures, and shareholders are
pressing the bank to stem the bleeding.  “Whether it’s private investors or the government, folks
are going to scour every delinquent loan to try and find
defects,” said  Jefferson Harralson , an analyst at KBW Inc. with
a market perform rating on the lender. “Countrywide loans were
dealt with first, but the non-Countrywide loans still have a
significant chance of being put back to them.”  Progress has been made in talks to break an impasse over
refunds with  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , which accounted for the bulk of
previous claims, the people said. A settlement isn’t close and
may not happen, and the company is comfortable with its reserve
levels, they said. The lender has climbed 29 percent this year
in  New York  trading, compared with a 58 percent decline in 2011.  Wider Scope  Of about $11 billion in requests from government-sponsored
enterprises as of June 30, $10.1 billion were from Fannie, said
a person with direct knowledge of the figures. About 70 percent
of claims from the Washington-based mortgage firm were for loans
in which borrowers made at least two years of payments,
indicating the bank probably isn’t at fault, the person said.  The newest claims from private investors expand the focus
to loans made by the main bank division and Merrill Lynch, which
have attracted relatively little attention in past cases. Most
repurchase demands are attributed to Countrywide, whose lax
standards and subprime loans were blamed by lawmakers and
regulators for fueling the  housing bubble  and subsequent
financial crisis.  Outstanding claims from private investors jumped 77 percent
to $8.6 billion in the second quarter, mostly from trustees of
mortgage-bond pools that weren’t included in an $8.5 billion
 settlement  announced last year, Bank of America said last month.  Investor Concern  Claims reflect the unpaid principal balance. Actual losses
are typically reduced to a fraction of the demands after the
bank proves some claims are invalid, negotiates settlements on
others and seizes collateral. Bank of America settled for about
2 percent of total claims in the $8.5 billion accord.  Jerry Dubrowski , a Bank of America spokesman, declined to comment.  Analysts repeatedly questioned Chief Executive Officer
 Brian T. Moynihan , 52, during the bank’s quarterly conference
call about the demands, including the extent of future losses
and why claims continue to rise on loans made as long as six
years ago during the housing bubble. Bank of America had become
the biggest home lender after the 2008 purchase of Countrywide,
whose specialties included subprime loans.  Lenders typically have sold mortgages to investors with a
promise to buy them back if underwriting flaws were found.
Insurance companies that backed mortgages got similar
assurances, and some have won settlements from banks as defaults
swelled.  Bank of America has been anticipating a rise in claims from
private investors and building repurchase reserves, Chief
Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  has said. Ultimate losses from
that group will be “well below $1 billion,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  