-- Bohemians Trash Salzburg Home as Netrebko Hits High Notes
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-02T00:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bohemians-trash-salzburg-apartment-as-netrebko-hits-high-notes.html
Rodolfo is a filmmaker living in
student squalor, sleeping on a mattress on the floor in Damiano
Michieletto’s cinematic “ La Boheme ” at the  Salzburg Festival .  He and his friends fight over the one armchair and squander
what little money they get. A huge steamed-up window with
raindrops trickling down serves as the melancholy backdrop. When
Rodolfo falls in love, a giant hand projected onto the window
writes “Mimi” in the condensation. As she dies in the final
act, the hand writes the name again, then wipes it out for good.  Mimi ( Anna Netrebko ) knocks at Rodolfo’s door looking for a
light for her cigarette (that explains the cough), not for her
candle. As she sings her pretty though vacuous “Mi chiamano
Mimi” aria, she borrows a DVD from Rodolfo’s collection and
slips it into her bag.  Aside from the modern setting, it’s a conventional
production of Puccini’s opera, and received warm applause from
the opulently arrayed premiere-night Salzburg audience.  The loudest bravos were for conductor Daniele Gatti, Piotr
Beczala as Rodolfo and Netrebko, whose rich voice belted out the
soaring high passages with conviction. She sounded less sure on
the low notes.  Puccini’s opera has been a crowd-pleaser since its premiere
in 1896, with its popular ingredients -- young artists leading a
carefree life; slick, fast dialogue; romantic arias and the
pathos of a young, sick woman who is clearly destined to die at
the end. Its inclusion in the Salzburg Festival repertoire is a
first: until now, it was considered too populist.  Paris Map  In Michieletto’s production, Paris is shown as a map laid
out on the stage with miniature-village buildings. The city is
in a Christmas consumer rush, bustling with shopping-carts,
people dressed in reindeer suits and kids clutching new video
games.  Musetta (Nino Machaidze) has a cart full of designer
shopping bags pushed by her elderly escort when she bumps into
Marcello, the former lover she sets out to win back.  The most atmospheric act is the third, set on a desolate
snowy roadside at dawn, where a comfortless trailer sells snacks
and coffee. All-night revelers cross paths with rubbish
collectors and market sellers. As Rodolfo confesses to Marcello
that he can’t handle the responsibility of Mimi’s illness, she
is crouched behind the trailer, listening.  The high jinks of the boys in the last act contain a note
of desperation -- they are about to be thrown out of the
apartment for not paying the rent and seem intent on trashing
the place before they go. The fraught atmosphere presages the
last scene well, as youthful innocence ends for all of them.  Apart from that, it all feels too smooth around the edges,
little more than a well-executed, honeyed homage to the beauty
and transitoriness of youth.  Rating: **  The Salzburg Festival runs through Sept. 2. For more
information, go to  http://www.salzburgerfestspiele.at/en   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 