-- Brazil Corruption Trial Chills Lula Legacy as Party Vote Suffers
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-08-02T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/brazil-corruption-trial-chills-lula-legacy-as-party-vote-suffers.html
Brazil’s Supreme Court today begins
hearing final arguments in a corruption case that threatens to
tarnish the country’s most popular president and undermine
support for the ruling Workers’ Party ahead of local elections.  After years of closed-door proceedings, justices and
lawyers for the first time will publicly air charges against 38
defendants, including former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s chief of staff, accused of helping the PT embezzle
public funds used to bribe lawmakers. The scandal, which led to
calls for Lula’s impeachment in 2005, is known as the
“ mensalao ,” Portuguese for the “big monthly payment” allies
allegedly received in exchange for backing the government.  A former shoeshine boy, Lula oversaw Brazil’s fastest
economic expansion in 25 years in 2010, capping off an eight-
year presidency during which 35 million people rose out of
poverty. A verdict condemning his lieutenants could diminish his
legacy after he left office with an 87 percent approval rating.  “It’ll trigger a historic revision of the Lula government
and may shatter his image as a semi-God,” Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, analyst at Eurasia Group, said by telephone from
 Washington . “His role in Brazilian politics is fading and the
trial may accelerate that process.”  Cash in Underwear  Chief prosecutor Roberto Gurgel called the mensalao the
most “daring and scandalous” corruption scheme ever uncovered
in  Brazil , according to a copy of a  brief  filed to the Supreme
Court last month, Folha de S. Paulo newspaper reported last
week. The high court and prosecutor’s office would not verify
the content of the brief, which has not been made public.  The cash-for-votes scheme was exposed in 2005 by Roberto Jefferson, leader of one of several allied parties the Lula
government relied on to pass legislation. The scandal gained
momentum when the then-treasurer of Lula’s PT, Delubio Soares,
acknowledged that the party didn’t report certain campaign
contributions and an adviser to the brother of then-PT president
Jose Genoino was arrested with $100,000 in his underwear.  Lula’s handpicked successor,  Dilma Rousseff , isn’t accused
of wrongdoing, and saw her approval rating soar to 77 percent
after taking a tough stand on corruption by firing six ministers
accused of graft and influence-peddling.  Rousseff Spared?  Still, the trial could damage her party when Brazilians go
to the polls in October to elect more than 5,550 mayors, said
Ricardo Guedes, head of Belo Horizonte-based polling firm
Sensus.  That’s because the 66-year-old Lula remains the PT’s top
campaigner, even though this is the first election in more than
a decade when he isn’t in power or on the ballot.  Also weighing on voters is a slowing economy that record
low interest rates and government tax breaks have so far failed
to revive. The biggest emerging market after  China  expanded an
annualized 0.8 percent in the first quarter, half the pace of
the U.S. Gross domestic product expanded 2.7 percent and 7.5
percent in 2011 and 2010 respectively.  The elections are a barometer for the PT’s support that
will help determine the balance of national power ahead of
presidential election in 2014, when Rousseff, 64, will face
voters if she seeks a second term. Lula has said he would only
run for a third term if she declined.  “I don’t see voters pinning this case on Dilma,” Guedes
said by telephone from  Angola . “But without a doubt a sentence
or sharp censuring by the court will hurt the PT.”  In  Sao Paulo , Brazil’s biggest city and business capital,
Lula’s former education minister, Fernando Haddad, is running in
third place with 7 percent support, according to a poll taken
July 19-20 by Sao Paulo-based polling firm  Datafolha .  Lula Apology  In a taste of the negative campaigning to come, the
opposition Brazilian Social Democracy Party put on its website a
 video  calling the mensalao the “scandal that Brazil doesn’t
forget” and containing footage of Lula apologizing to the
nation.  “Democracy loses when the trial is used for electoral
purposes,” Marco Aurelio de Carvalho, a PT lawyer who co-signed
a petition asking the country’s top electoral authority to delay
the court ruling, said by telephone from Sao Paulo.  While some defendants have acknowledged they played a role
in the lesser electoral crime of not reporting campaign
contributions -- a widespread practice in Brazilian politics --
all deny ever tapping state funds or paying bribes.  Jail Terms  Supreme Court  justices are expected to rule in September on
charges that also include racketeering,  money laundering  and
illegal currency transactions. Some of the crimes carry maximum
sentences of 12 years in jail. Eight of the 11 justices were
appointed by either Lula or Rousseff.  Lula in 2005 said that he was betrayed by close aides who
engaged in “unacceptable practices.” After his re-election in
2006, the former lathe operator changed tack and said the
mensalao was an attempt by the opposition to oust him from
power.  Rousseff emerged from the political vacuum left when the
scandal toppled Lula’s chief of staff, Jose Dirceu. A former PT
chief who took up arms against Brazil’s 1964-1985 military
dictatorship, Dirceu is charged by the prosecution with
masterminding the fundraising scheme through a network of banks
and advertising firms that had government contracts.  The trial, which heard testimony from over 600 witnesses in
five years, has been marked by controversy. Supreme Court
Justice Gilmar Mendes told local media in May that Lula in a
private meeting pressured him to delay a ruling. Lula
acknowledged meeting with Mendes but denied acting
inappropriately.  Lula declined to comment on the trial, according to an e-
mail from his press aide. Rousseff’s press office refused
comment in an e-mail, saying it was a matter for the judicial
branch. Dirceu on his  blog  has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing.  A tough sentence in the case could convince many
Brazilians, especially in the country’s growing middle class,
that impunity and corruption isn’t inevitable, said Ben Ross
Schneider, the director of the Brazil program at the Cambridge-
based  Massachusetts Institute of Technology .  “It would be a watershed,” Schneider said in an
interview. “There have been many scandals in Brazil, but few
trials.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  