-- Bristol-Myers Suspends Hepatitis C Drug Clinical Trial
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-02T20:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bristol-myers-suspends-hepatitis-c-drug-clinical-trial.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  lost ground
in the race to develop a stand-alone hepatitis C pill after the
company suspended testing of an experimental drug that cost it
$2.5 billion to acquire earlier this year.  Bristol fell the  most  in 10 years after the New York-based
company said yesterday it wouldn’t continue to administer the
therapy, known as BMS-986094, after a patient developed heart
failure, what the drugmaker called a “serious safety issue” in
a statement.  The treatment was thought by researchers and analysts to be
a key player in a push by companies, including  Gilead Sciences
Inc. (GILD) , to replace the standard treatment, a yearlong regimen of
interferon injections that carry flu-like side-effects. Two
analysts called the news a major setback blunting Bristol’s
reputation as having the industry’s best pipeline.  “We recommend that investors assume BMY’s nuc is dead,”
said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York,
using industry slang for nucleotide polymerase inhibitor, a
family of compounds designed to stop the virus from replicating.  Bristol fell 8.6 percent to $32.55 at 4 p.m. New York time,
after  gaining  27 percent in the 12 months before today. It was
the worst one-day drop since April 2002. Gilead jumped 6.8
percent to $57.29. The  Foster City , California-based company has
increased 42 percent in the past 12 months.  Inhibitex Purchase  Bristol gained the compound in January with the acquisition
of Inhibitex Inc. for $2.5 billion. The purchase was designed to
put the company in a lead role in gaining approval of a new
generation of medicines to treat the estimated 170 million
patients with hepatitis C.  The hepatitis C market is estimated at $20 billion for the
new pills designed to work more quickly with fewer side effects
for those with the liver infection.  The hepatitis C setback was announced the day before a
Bristol executive responsible for overseeing the company’s
pension plans was arrested for  insider trading , according to a
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  complaint. Robert Ramnarine was
arrested today and will appear in federal court in  Newark ,  New
Jersey , according to a statement by U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman.  Last month, another of the company’s experimental
prospects, the blood thinner Eliquis being developed with Pfizer
Inc., was rejected by U.S. regulators, who asked for more data
from existing trials. Approval of the drug may be pushed into
next year, according to the company. And the diabetes drug
dapagliflozin was rejected in January when the  Food and Drug
Administration  asked for more safety information.  Estimate Cut  Timothy Anderson , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York, said in a note to clients today that he was
cutting his  estimate  of 2016 sales of Bristol-Myers’ hepatitis C
franchise from $2 billion to $1.2 billion.  Anderson also cautioned that the heart failure could prove
to be a red herring, and that more information was needed.  “Sometimes companies take the conservative step of
suspending dosing when new safety issues arise until the data
can be analyzed and excessive harm can be ruled out,” he said.  Bristol-Myers’ strategy has been focused on buying
companies with promising experimental assets and focusing
internally on areas of unmet medical need. The goal has been to
rebuild a diversified company that no longer relies as heavily
on Plavix, a cardiology drug that lost patent protection this
year after selling $7.09 billion in 2011 and making up a third
of the company’s revenue.  ‘Armor Chink’  “This is perhaps yet another chink in the armor of a
relatively expensive stock that has earned its multiple via R&D
and business development successes,” Schoenebaum said in a note
to clients. He predicted the stock would drop. “We expect to
continue to see BMY lag the group as it has much if this year.”  It’s also a boost for Gilead and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (VRTX) , which both have competing drugs. “In the near term, this
may remove a major competitor until the safety issue is vetted
and at a minimum may put clinical ‘hair’ on the molecule,”
 Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  San
Francisco , said in a note to clients.  Administration of the drug to about 30 patients enrolled in
a so-called Phase 2b study has been stopped pending an
investigation, Sonia Choi, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman, said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  Heart failure occurred in one patient receiving the highest
daily dose of 200 milligrams, Choi said.  “Although the issue presented in a patient receiving that
dose, it doesn’t preclude the possibility of issues with other
patients at other doses,” she said. “At this point, we don’t
know what the cause of the safety issue is. We are taking the
time to evaluate information on all patients receiving this
compound.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  