-- Bristol-Myers Executive Accused of Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-02T20:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bristol-myers-executive-ramnarine-charged-with-insider-trading.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  executive
Robert Ramnarine was charged with  insider trading  for making
$311,361 in illegal profit by buying  stock options  in three
companies targeted for acquisition.  The FBI arrested Ramnarine, 45, and he appeared today in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey, where he was released on
$250,000 bond. Ramnarine’s jobs included executive director of
pensions and savings investments and assistant treasurer for
capital markets.  He helped the New York-based drugmaker evaluate whether to
buy targeted companies, including ZymoGenetics Inc., Pharmasset
Inc. and  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  said. As he conducted due diligence on pension and
savings plans of those companies, he also bought options in all
three, violating his duty not to profit from inside information,
according to the FBI.  From his office in Princeton,  New Jersey , Ramnarine also
conducted Internet searches to determine whether he could be
detected by authorities, according to the Securities and
Exchange Commission, which sued him today. One search was on the
term “can stock option be traced to purchase inside trading,”
according to the civil complaint.  Research on SEC  “Ramnarine tried to educate himself about how the SEC
investigates insider trading so he could avoid detection,”
Daniel M. Hawke, chief of the SEC’s Market Abuse Unit, said in a
statement. “Our charges against Ramnarine should serve notice
that when you violate insider trading laws, no matter how you
scheme, you will be caught.”  Ramnarine, of East Brunswick, New Jersey, faces three
counts of  securities fraud , each carrying a maximum prison term
of 20 years. The SEC seeks a court order to freeze his brokerage
account assets.  After Ramnarine’s court appearance, Peter Carter, his
assistant federal public defender, declined to comment.  Bristol-Myers said Ramnarine was placed on administrative
leave effective immediately.  Company Statement  “Bristol-Myers Squibb has clear and strict policies
prohibiting trading on material nonpublic information and is
cooperating with the government’s investigation,” Ken Dominski,
a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Bristol-Myers agreed to buy ZymoGenetics in October 2010
and Amylin in June. It withdrew from talks on buying Pharmasset,
which Gilead Sciences Inc. agreed to buy in November 2011 for
$11 billion.  Bristol-Myers fell the most in more than 10 years after it
announced late yesterday that a patient in a clinical trial for
its experimental hepatitis C drug had developed heart failure.
The company halted testing of the drug.  Shares fell 8.6 percent to $32.55 at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
after gaining 27 percent in the previous 12 months. It was their
worst one-day drop since April 2002.  Replacing Plavix  Bristol-Myers has been acquiring companies and developing
drugs to replace top-selling heart drug Plavix, which had
$7.09 billion in sales last year. Bristol-Myers agreed to pay
$5.3 billion for Amylin, and agreed to pay $885 million for
ZymoGenetics.  Bristol-Myers reached a tentative agreement to buy
ZymoGenetics on Aug. 12, 2010, triggering three weeks of due
diligence, according to the FBI complaint.  Ramnarine bought ZymoGenetics options on Aug. 25 and 26,
2010, and sold on Sept. 8, the day after the deal was announced,
for a profit of $30,551, according to the FBI. In an application
for one brokerage account used for those trades, Ramnarine
falsely stated that he worked at Merck & Co., the FBI said.  Ramnarine was hired in December 1997 and worked from March
2008 to June 2011 as director of pensions and savings
investments. He was then promoted to executive director in that
office. In July, he was promoted again, to assistant treasurer
for  capital markets .  Advising on Amylin  In April, he was responsible for advising Bristol-Myers on
how the Amylin transaction would affect the company’s capital
structure, cash flow and credit rating, according to the FBI. He
also spoke with the company’s investment bankers at Citigroup
Inc. and credit agencies. Ramnarine made $55,784 in illicit
profit on the deal, according to the FBI.  He also made $225,026 in illicit profit on the Pharmasset
deal, buying some of his options on his work-issued BlackBerry,
according to the arrest complaint.  The case is U.S. v. Ramnarine, 12-mj-8121, U.S. District
Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York
at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 