-- Bronze Bodies, Not the Olympic Kind, Impress in London
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-08-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bronze-bodies-not-the-olympic-kind-impress-in-london.html
Now is a good time to be thinking
about the human body. It’s on display, in peak form, at all the
London Olympic venues, and in rather less standard
configurations at a trio of sculptural exhibitions.  Elsewhere, there’s evidence that in lieu of Brillo boxes
and dollar bills  Andy Warhol  once played around with those
Olympic rings.  Let’s start with “ Henry Moore : Late Large Forms” at the
Gagosian Gallery, 6-24 Britannia St., WC1 (until Aug. 18).  Moore is a surprising choice for a major contemporary art
gallery in an Olympic summer. True, he was a master of 20th-
century British art. But his reputation has been in gentle
decline since his death in 1986. “Picasso and Modern British
Art” at Tate Britain earlier this year suggested he had trailed
well behind the brilliant Spaniard.  Unexpectedly, this Gagosian show succeeds where that
exhibition failed: It makes Moore look important and original.
It does so, essentially, because in sculpture size makes a
difference. On display are some of Moore’s grandest bronzes,
above all the colossal “Large Two Forms” from 1966.  Towering Scale  Here’s something Moore did that Picasso didn’t: explore
sculpture on a huge scale. Like more recent sculptural
masterpieces such as  Richard Serra ’s “Torqued Ellipses,” it’s
large enough to walk through. The forms tower over you.  There are also some trademark reclining figures on view,
though this piece makes the case for Moore, and suggests that --
again unexpectedly -- his most important work came late.  While Moore liked to compare the human form with natural
shapes such as bones and hills, in “Still Standing” at  White
Cube , Hoxton Square, N1 (through Sept. 15),  Antony Gormley  is
more interested in comparisons between bodies and buildings.  These 18 sculptures -- 17 downstairs, one up -- offer
variations on the theme of analyzing a person into a stack of
cast-iron cubes and oblongs, as if built out of children’s toy
bricks. Last year, some were on show at the Hermitage in  St.
Petersburg , next to a group of Greek and Roman statues.  The Athenians occasionally substituted sculpted maidens for
columns;  Leonardo da Vinci  and Michelangelo both believed that
human proportions should be the basis for building. So too did
the arch-modernist Le Corbusier.  Gormley’s iron men can sometimes seem repetitive, yet these
work a subtle and quirky variation on a classical theme.  Quirky Faces  A more outrageous redesign of homo sapiens is on display on
the grounds of  Dulwich Picture Gallery .  “The Four Seasons” by Philip Haas (through Sept. 16) are
15-foot (4.6 meter) fiberglass heads based on the paintings of
the 16th-century Italian artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo, who
specialized in assembling recognizably human faces out of
incongruous items. His “Winter” is made up of dry wood,
evergreen leaves and fungi, “Spring” out of flowers, etc.  Haas has taken the idea further by visualizing what these
fantastic physiognomies might look like in three dimensions, and
hugely magnified. The ebullient results suggest the Renaissance
as re-imagined by  Jeff Koons , with a hint of Disney.  Inside the Dulwich Gallery there’s an exhibition of
Warhol’s print portfolios (also through Sept. 16).  A more timely fragment of Warholiana is “Olympic Rings”
at another Gagosian Gallery, 17-19 Davies St., W1 (until Aug.
11). It consists of one large collaborative picture, in which
Warhol riffed on the celebrated symbol and  Jean-Michel Basquiat 
contributed a black mask.  Also on display are photographs of the two men in the guise
of boxers. Warhol makes a wonderfully improbable athlete.  Information:  http://www.gagosian.com/   http://whitecube.com/ 
 http://www.dulwichpicturegallery.org.uk/   The Warhol/Basquiat is for sale, with prices on application.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford, in London, at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 