-- NFL’s Browns Bought by James Haslam for More Than $1 Billion
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-08-02T22:03:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/browns-said-to-be-sold-to-james-haslam-for-more-than-1-billion.html
The  Cleveland Browns  were bought for
more than $1 billion by James Haslam III, the head of the
nation’s largest truck stop operator and the brother of
Tennessee’s governor.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in news releases sent by
the team and Haslam’s representatives. The price exceeded $1
billion, a person with direct knowledge of the deal said on
condition of anonymity because the price wasn’t made public.  Haslam, 58, is a part owner of the  National Football
League ’s Pittsburgh Steelers and president of Pilot Travel
Centers LLC, the nation’s largest operator of travel centers and
truck stops. His brother is Tennessee Governor Bill Haslam.  “We are committed to keeping the team in  Cleveland  and
seeing it get back to the elite of the NFL,” Haslam said in the
release.  Lerner, 50, who also owns English Premier League soccer
team Aston Villa, said last week he was talking to Haslam about
“making an investment” in the team and he would share further
details at a later date.  “While as fiduciary I have always felt it was my
responsibility to listen to offers, I had not been approached
with a proposal that felt as natural and complete as Mr.
Haslam’s,” Lerner said in a statement. “He had done a lot of
work on the Browns and the city of Cleveland and, first and
foremost, gave me his personal assurance the team would remain
in Cleveland.”  There are at least 15 NFL teams with values above $1
billion, according  Forbes magazine , ranging from the  Dallas
Cowboys  at $1.85 billion to the  Carolina Panthers  at $1 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net ; or
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington at
   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  