-- BSkyB Gets U.K. Regulatory Reprieve in Movie Business Probe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2012-08-02T06:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bskyb-gets-u-k-regulatory-reprieve-in-movie-business-probe.html
British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) ’s
pay-TV movie service doesn’t have enough control over movie
rights in the U.K. to harm competition following rival offers
from online services, the U.K.  Competition Commission  said in
its final ruling today.  Sky Movies “is not a sufficient driver of subscribers’
choice of pay-TV,” the Competition Commission said in a
statement. The regulator already said in May that Internet
offerings such as  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Lovefilm
have loosened BSkyB’s dominance over first rights to show films,
in a reverse of its earlier findings.  The commission said previously that it was considering
forcing BSkyB, the nation’s largest pay-TV provider with more
than 10 million subscribers, to resell movie content to rivals.
The regulator provisionally found a year ago that the market
control of BSkyB led to higher prices and reduced choice for
subscribers.  U.S. streaming-service Netflix started offering movies and
TV shows in the U.K. in January and Lovefilm expanded its
service in the same month. In response, BSkyB is bringing out
its own Web-television service, dubbed Now TV, to gain new
customers.  The commission said today that the launch of Sky Movies on
Now TV offers consumers a choice to subscribe to Sky Movies
separately from their subscription to other pay-TV content.  BSkyB shares yesterday rose 1.7 percent to 724.50 pence in
 London . The stock has slipped 1.1 percent this year.  `Overwhelming Evidence'  “Sky considers there to be overwhelming evidence that U.K.
consumers are well served by strong competition between a
growing number of TV providers, including those offering
movies,” BskyB said in a statement today.  BSkyB holds exclusive first rights to play releases from
major Hollywood studios and the Isleworth, England-based
company’s size has made it difficult for smaller rivals to bid
against it, the commission said last year. Media regulator Ofcom
had formerly required the broadcaster to wholesale its sports
content, a decision challenged by BSkyB.  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED) , the U.K.’s second-largest pay TV
company, said in May that it “strongly disagrees” with the
commission’s findings as the offerings of Lovefilm and Netflix
haven’t changed BSkyB’s dominant position.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  