-- Budget Aide Warned Deal to Save Solyndra May Cost U.S. More
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-08-02T16:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/budget-aide-warned-deal-to-save-solyndra-could-cost-u-s-more.html
A White House budget official warned
a last-ditch Energy Department plan to save Solyndra LLC from
collapsing could end up costing taxpayers tens of millions of
dollars more than letting the company close, according to a
report by the Republican-led House Energy Committee.  Kelly Colyar, an analyst at the Office of Management and
Budget, estimated the U.S. could lose about $141 million if
Solyndra shut its doors in January 2011, as the department and
private investors negotiated a deal to restructure the terms of
the solar-panel maker’s U.S. loan, the report released today
said.  The Energy Department went ahead with the restructuring
plan, which put taxpayers behind private investors in the case
of Solyndra’s collapse. Colyar estimated losses could grow to
$385 million under the plan. The company filed for bankruptcy
six months after the restructuring was approved.  Colyar’s concerns were included in the 154-page report, the
culmination of an 18-month investigation into Solyndra’s $535
million loan guarantee, the first awarded under Obama’s 2009
economic stimulus.  “Solyndra is a prime example of the perils that come when
the federal government plays investor, tries to keep a company
and industry afloat with subsidies, and attempts to pick the
winners and losers in a particular marketplace,” the report
concludes.  Damien LaVera, an Energy Department spokesman, said in a
statement that “decisions related to this loan were made solely
on the merits after careful review by experts in our loan
program.” A White House official said the report failed to find
any political influence in the Solyndra award.  ‘Significantly Higher’  Senior officials at the budget office, including then-
director Jack Lew, who is now the White House chief of staff,
knew about the concerns of OMB staff and decided not to
intervene, letting Energy officials determine whether to go
forward with the restructuring, according to the report.  Colyar said recoveries under an immediate liquidation would
be “significantly HIGHER than DOE’s estimate,” meaning that
the government “is better off liquidating the assets today than
restructuring,” according to the report, which quoted January
e-mails from Colyar. The content of the e-mails were reported by
the Washington Post.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in September, firing its
1,100 workers.  Millions ‘Squandered’  “Mr. Lew and the White House owe the American people an
explanation, as they squandered hundreds of millions of
dollars,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , told
reporters today.  White House spokesman  Eric Schultz  said in a statement that
Republicans had failed to show Solyndra’s award was influenced
by political connections, as they have alleged, despite
collecting about 300,000 pages of e-mails and other documents
from the administration and private investors.  Budget officials ultimately determined the Energy
Department’s approach to the restructuring “was reasonable and
reflected the information as it was understood at that time,”
 Moira Mack , an OMB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Solyndra’s collapse has proved a political embarrassment to
the White House and President  Barack Obama , who in a May 2010
visit to the company said it showed that “the promise of clean
energy wasn’t just an article of faith.”  Mitt Romney , Obama’s Republican rival for the White House,
visited the shuttered factory in Fremont,  California , in May,
describing it as a symbol of Obama’s broader failure to revive
the economy through the 2009 economic stimulus.  Stimulus Financing  The stimulus financed about $16 billion in clean-energy
loan guarantees, including Solyndra’s, the first awarded by the
administration.  Much of the information in the report has been released
before in e-mails and other documents the House Energy and
Commerce Committee collected as part of its investigation, such
as White House staff working to promote the deal before the OMB
signed off on the guarantee and worrying by some officials about
backing a company that faced competition from lower-cost Chinese
solar panels.  The Energy Committee yesterday advanced a bill that would
end the loan-guarantee program by prohibiting the Energy
Department from considering support for projects that sought
U.S. aid after Jan. 1. The bill would allow existing
applications under consideration prior to that date to go
forward.  Campaign Donor  Republicans led by Representative  Cliff Stearns  of  Florida ,
the chairman of the committee’s investigations panel, have
suggested the White House sought to help Solyndra to benefit
 George Kaiser , a campaign donor to Obama whose foundation was
the company’s leading investor.  Kaiser was “closely involved in financial decisions
related to Solyndra,” the report states.  Nothing in the report, however, shows the White House
intervened on behalf of Solyndra to benefit Kaiser, who told the
committee he didn’t lobby on behalf of the company.  E-mails in August 2011 from an official at Argonaut Private
Equity of Tulsa,  Oklahoma , the investment arm of Kaiser’s
foundation, show he sought to avoid two calls from  Jonathan
Silver , then executive director of the loan program, as the
department was considering a second restructuring.  That plan was rejected by administration officials and
Solyndra closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  