-- Buffett Railroad Beats Coal Slump With 75% Gain in Oil
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-08-02T20:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/buffett-railroad-beats-coal-slump-with-75-gain-in-oil-freight.html
Warren Buffett ’s Burlington Northern
 Santa Fe  railroad and  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  are combating a drop
in coal cargoes by catering to the industry responsible: the
hydraulic fracturing of shale formations.  BNSF, Union Pacific and their peers are hauling in energy
producers’ gear to extract crude oil and gas from shale, then
shipping out petroleum products. BNSF’s petroleum carloads rose
75 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier while Union
Pacific saw a 12 percent gain in the unit where it groups
fracking-related freight.  “This is a whole industry that just sprung up on all the
rail properties,” Jeffrey Kauffman, an analyst at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It’s a new growth
source that helps to mitigate what’s probably a temporary
dislocation of an old energy source.”  The dislocation has come with a hefty cost, as many North
American utilities stopped generating power from coal in favor
of cheaper natural gas released by fracking. Coal cargoes at
Class I railroads,  North America ’s largest, dropped 11 percent
in the second quarter. Neither Union Pacific’s chemicals segment
nor BNSF’s petroleum shipments rival their coal volumes.  “The shale opportunity has been a double-edged sword for
the rails,” Ben Hartford, a Robert W. Baird & Co. analyst in
Milwaukee, said in a telephone interview. “The abundance of
natural gas domestically has pressured prices, and the resulting
degradation to the coal demand has been palpable.”  ‘Double-Edged Sword’  Union Pacific’s shale business will probably grow to almost
400,000 carloads in 2012, Chief Executive Officer Jack Koraleski
said on a July 19 conference call. That’s roughly double the
number of carloads the Omaha, Nebraska-based company moved from
the Bakken shale formation in the northern U.S. in 2011.  “While the coal business, which is our largest book of
business, has softened, we’ve been able to offset that with
strength in crude oil, in frack sand, in automobiles, in pipes
and domestic intermodal,” Koraleski said in a telephone
interview last month.  The trend holds across the industry. Petroleum-product
shipments at major U.S. railroads have gained 40 percent this
year from the same period in 2011, while coal cargoes have
dropped 9.6 percent, according to a report today by the
 Association of American Railroads .  BNSF and Union Pacific transport most of their Bakken
region crude shipments to Oklahoma, California, Louisiana,  New
Mexico  and Texas. The companies are more insulated from risk
associated with the abundance of natural gas than eastern rails
since coal in the Powder River Basin of  Wyoming  and Montana
costs less to mine than in the Appalachian region.  Stock Performance  Union Pacific climbed 0.2 percent to $121.80 at the close
in  New York . The stock’s advance of 15 percent this year has
surpassed gains of 7.3 percent by  CSX Corp. (CSX) , the biggest eastern
U.S. railroad, 0.7 percent by  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)  and 5.2
percent by the Standard & Poor’s 500 Industrials Index.  Union Pacific, the biggest North American railroad, lacks
direct access to the Bakken shale oil field. It benefits from
interchanges with traffic originated by BNSF and  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  bound for Louisiana and Texas terminals.  The largest contiguous oil deposit in the continental U.S.,
the Bakken includes parts of North Dakota, South Dakota and
Montana in the U.S. and Saskatchewan and Manitoba in  Canada .  “People are just getting their heads around how large the
opportunity will be for the next year or two,” David Vernon, a
New York-based analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in
a telephone interview.  ‘It’s Phenomenal’  BNSF is “seeing strong double-digit type growth” in all
markets related to shale fracturing, CEO  Matt Rose  said in an
interview in May. Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  spent $26.5
billion in 2010 to acquire the 77.5 percent of Fort Worth,
Texas-based BNSF it didn’t already own in the billionaire
investor’s biggest  takeover .  “Everything to do with drilling, horizontal drilling,
frack sand, pipe, oil, it’s phenomenal,” Rose said.  Once more pipeline capacity comes online, in part through
the reversal of the 150,000-barrel-a-day Seaway pipeline to
carry crude south, rails will be hauling less out of the Bakken
region.  “You are seeing a huge amount of growth right now, but as
that pipeline capacity increases, the cost advantage of pipe to
rail will take some of it back by 2014, 2015,” Vernon said.  Railroads should still see some growth from natural gas
drilling, said  Lee Klaskow , a Bloomberg Industries analyst in
Skillman, New Jersey.  “The pipelines can take out oil but they can’t bring in
sand and water,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  