-- Bull Market in Crops Extends With Drought: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-03T15:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/bull-market-in-crops-extends-with-spreading-drought-commodities.html
Corn and soybean traders are bullish
for a 15th consecutive week on speculation that the drought
spreading across fields in the U.S. will spur the government to
make more cuts to its production forecasts.  Fourteen analysts surveyed by Bloomberg predicted soybeans
will climb next week and a further seven were bearish. Twelve
expect gains in corn, six saw a decline and three anticipated
little change.  Hedge funds  are holding the biggest bet on higher
corn prices since September and almost the largest wager on
costlier soybeans since at least 2006, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission data show.  Moderate to exceptional drought had spread across 63
percent of the contiguous U.S. by July 31, the U.S. Drought
Monitor, based in Lincoln,  Nebraska , said yesterday. The  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  cut its forecast for the world’s
biggest corn harvest by 12 percent last month and its outlook
for the soybean crop by 4.8 percent. It next reports Aug. 10 and
INTL FCStone Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Rabobank
International have said they expect output to drop further.  “Corn already has had damage taking place and we’ve seen a
sizable cut in harvestable acres and yields,” said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at Barclays Plc in London. “The
soybean market still is very, very nervous because the supply
side scenario is a lot tighter.”  Record Prices  Soybeans rose 35 percent to $16.3125 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade this year and set a record $16.915 on
July 23. Corn gained 25 percent to $8.095 a bushel, reaching an
all-time high of $8.205 on July 31. CME Group Inc., the world’s
largest futures market, said trading of agricultural commodities
jumped 46 percent in July from a year earlier.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities added
0.6 percent since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country
World  Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 6.3 percent. Treasuries returned
2.8 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  The USDA cut its U.S. corn harvest outlook to 12.97 billion
bushels and reduced its soybean projection to 3.05 billion
bushels on July 11. Corn output may be 11.043 billion bushels,
the lowest since 2006 and 25 percent below the government’s June
forecast for a record crop, FCStone said Aug. 1. The soybean
crop will be 2.73 billion bushels, it said. Credit Suisse Group
AG and Morgan Stanley have said crop yields will probably be
lower than current USDA forecasts.  North Dakota  Twenty-four percent of the U.S. corn crop and 29 percent of
soybeans were in good or excellent condition as of July 29, the
lowest rating for the date since 1988, a year when drought
slashed the nation’s corn harvest by 31 percent, USDA data show.
Drought will persist in the Midwest through October and spread
in parts of North Dakota and  Texas , the  Camp Springs , Maryland-
based U.S. Climate Prediction Center said yesterday.  Heat waves in  Europe  are also damaging crops from  Italy  to
 Russia . Grain output in  Western Australia , the country’s biggest
wheat grower, may drop 40 percent because of dry weather and
frost, according to CBH Group, the state’s biggest handler. As
many as 400 of India’s 627 districts received lower-than-average
rainfall this year, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said July 31.  China  may import a record 61 million metric tons of
soybeans in the 2012-13 season, 6.1 percent more than a year
earlier, with corn shipments unchanged at 5 million tons, the
USDA said July 11. The Asian nation is the biggest soybean
consumer and second-largest user of corn, after the U.S.  U.S. Ports  The amount of soybeans inspected for export at U.S. ports
in the week to July 26 more than doubled from the same week a
year earlier to 15.5 million bushels, primarily because of
surging sales to China, the USDA said July 30. Inspections of
corn tumbled 40 percent from a year earlier.  South American farmers are preparing to plant record grain
and oilseed crops. Argentine farmers, spurred on by rains that
alleviated a drought, will smash a previous corn harvest record
of 22 million tons by reaping as much as 31 million tons in the
2012-2013 season, growers group Crea said July 23.  Brazil  may
harvest its biggest-ever soybean crop in 2012-2013 to surpass
the U.S. as the largest grower, according to Agroconsult, a Sao
Paulo-based research company.  Costlier crops may curb demand from biofuel producers. U.S.
ethanol output slid 12 percent since June 8 and in the week to
July 20 reached the lowest level since the Energy Department
began tracking weekly data in 2010. Producers are losing about
35 cents on each gallon of ethanol made based on fuel and corn
contracts for September, data compiled by Bloomberg show. More
U.S. corn went to ethanol refineries than into livestock feed in
2010-11 for the first time ever.  Ethanol Business  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the world’s largest corn
processor, reported July 31 fiscal fourth-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as its ethanol business swung to a
loss. Declining crop supplies are boosting costs for companies
from Decatur, Illinois-based ADM and Smithfield Foods Inc. to
McDonald’s Corp. and The Coca-Cola Co.  In other commodities, four of 13 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar to climb next week and
four were bearish. A further five predicted little change. The
commodity slipped 5.3 percent this year to 22.06 cents a pound
on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Nine people surveyed said copper will rise next week and
eight predicted a drop, while four were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 2.1 percent to $7,440 a ton this year.  Central Banks  Thirteen of 27 traders and analysts surveyed said gold
would increase next week, eight were bearish and six were
neutral. Futures on the Comex exchange in New York added 2.6
percent since the start of January to $1,607.10 an ounce, after
11 years of gains. Holdings in bullion-backed exchange-traded
products are about 0.7 percent below the record 2,413.6 tons
reached July 5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  pledged to boost
measures to support the economy on Aug. 1, while refraining from
announcing new stimulus measures. The  European Central Bank  left
 interest rates  at a record low yesterday. The ECB is seeking to
quell Europe’s debt crisis, which is threatening to cripple
Spain and Italy and splinter the 17-nation monetary union.  “To support commodity demand and prices, a higher degree
of stimulus is needed,” said Bayram Dincer, an analyst at LGT
Capital Management in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “European Union
austerity measures and unsolved debt problems will cap commodity
prices due to slower demand growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  