-- California Says Tax Revenue ‘at Risk’ From Facebook Drop
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-02T19:18:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/california-says-tax-revenue-at-risk-from-facebook-drop.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s declining price may
cost California “hundreds of millions of dollars” in revenue
expected from taxes on capital gains, the state’s fiscal analyst
said.  The owner of the world’s largest online social network,
touched $19.82 today, the lowest price since the  Menlo Park ,
California-based company first offered shares to the public at
$38 on May 17.  The most populous U.S. state’s $91.3 billion budget, signed
by Governor  Jerry Brown  in June, counted on $1.9 billion in
income-tax revenue from company insiders such as Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  exercising options or sell shares,
assuming an average price of $35. Facebook, which touched $45
May 18, has averaged $29.49 on the Nasdaq stock market.  “Facebook share prices have fallen far below levels
assumed in the state’s revenue projections,” the nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office said yesterday in a  report . If
“the lower share prices persist through November and December,
hundreds of millions of dollars of income-tax revenue assumed in
the state budget plan are at risk.”  Ashley Zandy, a Facebook spokeswoman, said the company
didn’t have a comment. Executives and investors were expected to
sell 157.4 million shares in the initial public offering,
according to a regulatory filing.  Sales Growth  Facebook, which hasn’t closed above the $38 IPO price since
May 18, its first day of trading, last week said second-quarter
sales growth was 32 percent from the same period a year earlier,
down from 45 percent in the previous three months. The company
still needs to prove to investors that it can profit from the
growing number of users who access the site on mobile devices,
said  Tom Forte , an analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in New York.  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , an online-game developer based in  San
Francisco , went public in December and has declined from a
$15.91 high on March 2 to as low as $2.68 today, a record.  A Zynga investor sued the company and the IPO underwriters
this week, claiming shareholders were misled about its financial
health. The company reported lower-than-expected second-quarter
earnings July 25, and fell 37 percent the next day.  State finance officials typically update revenue estimates
when presenting the governor’s proposed budget in January. New
information on Facebook probably will be used in that update,
according to the Legislative Analyst’s Office.  California, the world’s ninth-biggest economy, took in $7.2
billion from income taxes in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  