-- California Gene-Altered Food Campaigns Draw $4.3 Million
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-08-02T04:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/california-gene-altered-food-campaigns-draw-4-3-million.html
A campaign to make  California  the
first state to require labeling of genetically modified foods
has raised $2.3 million in donations, compared with $2 million
collected by opponents, state records show.  Mercola.com LLC , a closely held distributor of vitamins and
nutrition products based in  Hoffman Estates , Illinois, donated
$800,000 to back the November ballot initiative as of July 27,
according to data posted on the Secretary of State’s website.
Major contributors to the campaign against the measure include
 PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest snack-food maker,  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s
Nestle USA and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , records show.  California voters were among the first to ban junk food
from schools and trans-fats from restaurants. Proponents,
financed by Mercola and several organic farms, are focusing
their effort on the most-populous state after the failure of
similar legislation in 19 states and the rejection of a petition
to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  in April.  “People want to know whether their food contains
genetically engineered ingredients,” Stacy Malkan, a
spokeswoman for the Oakland-based  California Right to Know 
campaign, said by telephone. “This type of labeling is standard
procedure in much of the industrialized world.”  Proposition 37 would require manufacturers to label as
“genetically engineered” food sold in retail outlets and made
from plants or animals with specific changes in their genetic
material. Such foods couldn’t be labeled “natural.” Certified
organic foods and prepared foods at restaurants would be
exempted.  Higher Prices  Opponents contend that mandatory labeling would raise the
price of food and encourage litigation.  “The motivation for this measure is more about lawsuits
than about people’s health and safety,” said Kathy Fairbanks, a
spokeswoman for  Stop Costly Food Labeling . “Setting up a
California-only distribution system for foods is also costly.”  PepsiCo spokesman Jeff Dahncke referred an e-mailed inquiry
to the Grocery Manufacturers Association, which represents food
makers.  Brian Kennedy , a spokesman for the Washington-based
trade group, said the FDA has “exhaustively” studied foods and
beverages containing genetically engineered ingredients and
found no health hazards.  Messages left with the U.S. media relations offices of
Atlanta-based Coca-Cola, the world’s largest soft-drink maker,
and Nestle, the world’s largest food manufacturer, based in
Vevey,  Switzerland , weren’t returned yesterday.  California’s Legislative Analyst’s Office, in an  analysis 
of the measure in January, concluded that it could cost as much
as $1 million a year to administer, in addition to “unknown,
but potentially significant” costs associated with litigation.  Grocery Shelves  Modified foods have been on U.S. grocery shelves since
1994. Ninety-three percent of those responding to a nationally
representative  poll  by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  in 2010 said
genetically engineered foods should be labeled.  The trend in food labeling is toward more disclosure, said
 Mike Owen , an agronomy professor in Ames,  Iowa , at  Iowa State
University , in a telephone interview.  Passage of the California measure would raise the stakes
across the U.S, he said.  “It would be a watershed nationally and would set a
precedent,” Owen said. “If we do that, there could be an added
expense to the consumer for the cost of making that
disclosure.”  Malkan disputed assertions of additional costs.
Manufacturers would have 18 months to phase-in the new labels,
during which most update their product labeling anyway, she
said.  Mercola.com is headed by Joseph Mercola, a suburban Chicago
osteopath who has warned in  videos  posted on YouTube of the
dangers of genetically modified foods. A Mercola spokesman,
Brian Barth, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment
yesterday.  “This isn’t just about California,” Mercola said in one
video. “This is an authentic grassroots efforts to get
genetically engineered foods labeled everywhere in the U.S.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  