-- Cameron Says Osborne Will Be U.K. Chancellor at Next Election
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-08-02T17:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cameron-says-osborne-will-be-u-k-chancellor-at-next-election.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  quashed
speculation that he may fire Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , saying he will remain in the post until the 2015
general election.  Media speculation that Osborne may be replaced in a Cabinet
reshuffle next month has grown since his March budget provoked
popular anger. He has been forced to reverse several of his tax-
raising proposals, while the economy slips deeper into
recession.  “George Osborne is doing an excellent job in very
difficult circumstances and he has my full support in doing
that. He is not going anywhere,” Cameron told  Sky News  in
 London  today. Asked if this meant Osborne will still be
chancellor at the next election, he said: “Yes.”  News last week that the economy contracted for a third
straight quarter between April and June prompted renewed
questions about Osborne’s economic plans and the pace of deficit
reduction.  Osborne drew the most criticism in the popular press for
imposing a value-added tax on hot takeaway snacks such as
Cornish pasties in his budget, a furor that became known as
“pastygate .”  The backlash saw Conservative colleague Nadine Dorries
deride Cameron and Osborne as “arrogant posh boys who don’t
know the price of milk.” Many of the budget decisions including
the pasty tax have since been reversed.  Matthew Oakeshott, a lawmaker for the Liberal Democrats,
the junior partner in the coalition government, recently told
Sky News that “we need our A team at the Treasury.”  The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported July 15 that Osborne
could be moved from his post if Britain loses its top  credit
rating , swapping roles with Foreign Secretary  William Hague .  Dorries, who has clashed repeatedly with Cameron and
Osborne over policy, called for Cameron to replace Osborne with
Hague.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  