-- CBS Second-Quarter Profit Rose 8.1% as Advertising Slid
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-03T16:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cbs-second-quarter-profit-rose-8-1-even-as-ad-sales-dip.html
CBS Corp. (CBS) , owner of the most-watched
television network, reported an 8.1 percent increase in second-
quarter profit, beating analysts’ estimates by holding down
costs as advertising sales slipped.  Net income climbed to $427 million, or 65 cents a share,
from $395 million, or 58 cents, a year ago, New York-based CBS
said yesterday in a statement. Analysts had projected profit of
59 cents, the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  CBS countered a 3.1 percent drop in revenue with higher-
margin affiliate and subscription fees, and reduced interest
expenses. The TV network, with 12 shows among the 25 most-
watched on broadcast television, is projected to finish first in
the new season, in both total audience and in prized 18-49 age
group -- positioning the company to capture more revenue from
the presidential election.  “CBS is increasingly benefiting from the steps we’ve taken
to improve our business model,” Chief Executive Officer Leslie Moonves said on a conference call. “The good news is there’s
still a long way to go in our evolution.”  Second-quarter sales fell to $3.48 billion from $3.59
billion, missing the $3.53 billion average of 25 analysts’
 estimates . Advertising, which makes up more than 60 percent of
revenue, slipped 3.3 percent to $2.14 billion, partially due to
lower television spending by retailers and financial firms.  Year-earlier results were bolstered by the March Madness
college basketball tournament and payments from  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  for
streaming rights to TV shows, the company said.  CBS, controlled by Chairman  Sumner Redstone , climbed 5.8
percent to $34.96 at 12:10 p.m. in  New York  trading. Before
today, the  shares  had gained 22 percent this year.  Campaign, Stations  Third-quarter broadcast revenue will rise by a “high
single digit” percentage, Chief Financial Officer Joe Ianniello
said on the call. Local TV stations, buoyed by record political
campaign advertising, will see revenue in the period rise by a
“high teens” percentage, and automotive companies, the
company’s biggest source of ads, are spending more, he said.  CBS would consider offers for TV stations outside the top
U.S. markets, Moonves said.  “We’ve always said we’re a big market television company
and we have a few stations outside the top 15, so if the right
offer came along, once again, we would absolutely look at it,”
Moonves said.  Younger Viewers  Operating income before depreciation and amortization, a
measure of profit watched by CBS analysts, rose 3.2 percent to
$901 million. The company cited bigger returns on television
licensing revenue and growth in high-margin affiliate and
subscription fees.  Profit at CBS Entertainment, the division that includes the
 broadcast network , fell 3.8 percent to $385 million.  Led by “NCIS” and “The Big Bang Theory,” CBS finished
the television season in May with the largest total audience and
the second-most viewers ages 18-49, trailing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox in
the group most-sought by advertisers.  The network collected about $2.7 billion in advertising
commitments for the new season. The strength of the lineup,
which includes the Super Bowl in February and a key National
Football League playoff game, should ensure that CBS wins in the
younger age group,  Brad Adgate , director of research at ad
agency  Horizon Media  in New York, said in May. It would be the
network’s first victory in both categories in two decades.  Cable, Outdoor  The cable networks division that includes the Showtime
channel and CBS Sports Network reported a 7.6 percent increase
in profit to $184 million in the second quarter, while local TV
and radio stations booked a 10 percent increase.  Operating profit from the billboard unit rose 50 percent to
$39 million, while the Simon & Schuster publishing division slid
59 percent to $7 million.  CBS is considering selling the outdoor division. The
company permitted bankers to solicit potential buyers for the
unit, a person with knowledge of the situation said in June. The
company is seeking about $6 billion for the business, the Wall
Street Journal reported at the time.  On July 26, the company boosted its quarterly  dividend  by
20 percent to 12 cents and increased its share repurchase
program to $4.7 billion, with the aim of completing the buybacks
by the end of 2014.  With the buybacks, the dividend and profit generators such
as the  Super Bowl  and new syndication deals, the company will
continue to return cash to shareholders, Moonves said.  “Even with the larger buy-back program, the increased
dividend, we still have headroom due to our very healthy levels
of free  cash flow ,” Moonves said. “We’re very optimistic about
our long-term prospects.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  