-- Central Banks Can’t Save the World
-- B y   M o h a m e d   E l - E r i a n
-- 2012-08-02T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/central-banks-can-t-save-the-world.html
The three central bank meetings this
week -- the  Bank of England , the  European Central Bank  and the
 Federal Reserve  -- made very good cases for additional stimulus
measures, though they failed to specify what these would be.  Equities and certain bonds that had surged on the basis of
last week’s verbal assurances by central bankers and political
leaders sold off. There was no panic given central bankers’
promises to do more in the future should additional action be
needed. This is what the standard narrative has been.  But it misses important context, and there is more at play
here. The unfortunate reality is that, unlike during the
financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, central banks can’t be the
saviors this time around for a struggling global economy. Other
government entities, with better-suited policy tools, need to
step up to the plate.  Why did central bankers disappoint so many this week? I
suspect that they wish to keep pressure on other policy makers
who demonstrate none of the necessary urgency. The bankers also
realize that their policy tools are increasingly less effective.
To quote  Mario Draghi , president of the ECB, central banks
“cannot replace governments.” There’s something else: Central
bankers more than anyone are being careful to keep dry whatever
ammunition they still have.  Banking Flexibility  This week’s events also highlight how central banks’
operational flexibility is much less than what is commonly
assumed. Here, the ECB is particularly important given the
enormous risk that  Europe ’s crisis poses for the global economy,
including the U.S.  Last week in London, Draghi left no doubt as to his
commitment to do “whatever it takes” to safeguard the euro. He
also introduced a shrewd sequence to bring sovereign spreads and
yields within the mandate of the ECB and try to contain
borrowing costs for struggling peripheral economies. He did this
by suggesting that the “exceptionally high risk premia” are
undermining countries like Italy and  Spain , and that concerns
about the robustness of the euro as a currency are contributing
to the fragmentation of the financial system and clogging the
monetary policy transmission mechanism -- and that, clearly,
this needed to be addressed.  Yet Draghi felt compelled Thursday to make additional ECB
measures conditional on countries being allowed to access
Europe-wide rescue facilities that aren’t under the purview of
the central bank. He  questioned  how his  London  speech was
interpreted, suggesting that markets misread what he meant. He
also had to deal with talk of divisions inside the ECB’s
governing council.  All this speaks to the much bigger reality, which is of
great relevance for individuals, companies, investors and
governments around the world. Yes, central banks may be part of
the solution, but increasingly they will play a smaller and
smaller role. The tools they have available are losing their
firepower. The burden is now on other policy makers and the
political leadership. Only they have the tools that can address
the fundamental problem of too little growth, too much debt in
the wrong places, and too little private capital being channeled
to investment and other productive activities.  To solve Europe’s crisis and the world’s intensifying
economic malaise -- just witness the downturn in manufacturing -
- policy makers and their political bosses need to address
issues of competitiveness, fiscal reform, and the retooling and
retraining of the  labor force . The longer the delay, the more
likely these problems will get embedded in the structure of the
economies.  Of course, none of this will happen until political leaders
abandon their tactical, incremental and partial approaches for
issues that require strategic, coordinated and comprehensive
responses. Unfortunately, in today’s polarized world, the
prospects of this are far from reassuring.  (Mohamed El-Erian is Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer, and the
author of the book “When Markets Collide.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
 Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind  “you didn’t build
that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Richard
Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic fencing ; Handel
Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about ; Anthony B.
Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block mortgage
writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Mohamed El-Erian at  el-erian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 