-- McGraw-Hill Offered $3 Billion for Education Unit, Reuters Says
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-08-02T21:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/mcgraw-hill-offered-3-billion-for-education-unit-reuters-says.html
McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) , the finance and
publishing company that said last year it would spin off its
education business, was offered about $3 billion for the unit,
Reuters reported.  Apollo Global Management LLC, Bain Capital Partners LLC,
Cengage Learning Inc. and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP made
proposals to buy the business, the newswire reported, citing
people it didn’t identify. A sale for $3 billion or more would
be more lucrative than a spinoff, according to  Peter Appert , an
analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co. in  San Francisco .  McGraw-Hill, the New York-based owner of  Standard & Poor’s ,
plans to break into two companies by the end of the year, one
focused on financial information and the other on educational
publishing. The education business would have made $162 million
last year on $2.29 billion of revenue, the company said last
month in a regulatory filing.  “If they get the right price, they’ll sell it, and if they
don’t, they won’t,” Appert said in a telephone interview. “I
definitely would think that there would be significant interest
from the private-equity firms but it’s all about price.”  Patti Rockenwagner, a spokeswoman for the company, declined
to comment. While the education business would be worth about
$2.5 billion in a spinoff, McGraw-Hill would need to get more in
a sale to make up for a bigger tax bill, Appert said.  Apollo spokesman  Charles Zehren  declined to comment, as did
 Matt Benson , a spokesman for THL. Bain spokesman Alex Stanton
didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking comment, and
Lindsay Brown, a spokeswoman for Cengage, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  McGraw-Hill rose 0.3 percent to $46.84 at the close of
trading in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  