-- Chef Corrigan Counts the Cost of Olympics, Hedge-Fund Gloom
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-08-02T08:26:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/chef-corrigan-counts-the-cost-of-olympics-hedge-fund-gloom.html
Richard Corrigan , the Irish-born
restaurateur, isn’t having a great Olympics.  Upper Grosvenor Street, outside the chef’s flagship  London 
restaurant Corrigan’s Mayfair, is partly closed. He’s also just
opened a new venue at Harrods department store, Bentley’s Sea 
Grill, and he still has to find time for Bentley’s, the 
seafood restaurant near Piccadilly that he bought in 2005.  We spoke at the original Bentley’s.  Vines: How are the Olympics for you?  Corrigan: Black cabs can’t even stop outside my restaurant
to drop off the customers. Westminster (Council) has cleared the
street so BMW could park all their courtesy cars to bring all
those IOC members to the Games. I wouldn’t mind if they’d booked
in for lunch but they’ve taken their courtesy brunch boxes in
the back of the car and their Champagne and hopefully they’ll
stay out there forever.  We have a couple of bookings from the Olympic committees,
two bookings. We have some from sponsorships, in fairness.  Coca-
Cola (KO)  has booked in. Some of the bigger companies have booked in,
but they’re sporadic and they’ve been very last-minute.  Vines: You won’t get many walk-ins.  Armed Police  Corrigan: All of  Park Lane , there’s a complete security
clampdown. Outside all the hotels there’s armed police hanging
around the whole area. It’s quite extraordinary. I mean, it felt
prison-like walking down there last night and the streets were
eerily quiet and empty and all the Olympian spirit you think is
in London, well it’s certainly not in Upper Grosvenor Street.  Vines: You’ve got a new place at Harrods. That’s brave.  Corrigan: Let’s be honest with you: Harrods is there a long
time. After  Buckingham Palace , it’s up there with London’s top
visitor attractions. So having an outlet in Harrods for me, it’s
not a brave move at all. It’s just a very natural move in these
economic tight times and to be asked to put Bentley’s into
Harrods, I felt happy, because their Food Hall is beautiful.
It’s a lovely place to hang around if you probably own an oil
well or two, so having Bentley’s in there will be just lovely.  The day of a warped sandwich served to you on a plate with
a mediocre cup of tea is well gone. You can eat pretty well. And
it’s taking time out, taking an hour out as the wife leathers
your  credit card . It’s a nice place to sit and enjoy yourself.  Vines: How’s the recession affecting you?  Hedge Funds  Corrigan: All of Berkeley Square (near Corrigan’s Mayfair)
is the hedge-fund and the equity-fund businesses and knowing
them quite well, I would imagine to see stress on lots of my
customers’ faces. They’re having a very tough time. I can see
certainly they’re not as happy as they used to be.  Vines: Are they spending as much on wine as they used to?  Corrigan: I don’t think so. We’re in a modest time. Really
now it’s time for a nice medium bottle of wine.  Vines: How do you respond to the slowdown as a
restaurateur?  Corrigan: You have to feel that times are difficult and
will probably become more difficult. I’m 48 years of age. I’ve
been in the hospitality business for 33 years. I’m a
restaurateur about 16 years. I’ve seen good times, I’ve seen OK
times and I’ve seen bad times and I feel now for our hospitality
business, we’re probably entering a tougher time than we’ve had
in the past many years.  For those of us who have paid down our debt and have cash
reserves in the bank, we are going to sail on around the world
and we’re still going to be here in 10 years’ time. But for
those restaurant companies that have borrowed a lot of money, or
are under demands from shareholders to get their money back, or
show me a return, they are going to find life a little bit more
difficult. So small is beautiful.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines, in London, at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 