-- Cheung Kong First-Half Profit Beats Analyst Estimate on Rent
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-02T09:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cheung-kong-first-half-profit-beats-analyst-estimates-on-rents.html
Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) , the Hong
Kong developer controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-shing , posted
first-half profit that beat analyst estimates as rental income
and the value of its investment properties increased.  Net income of HK$15.5 billion ($2 billion) compared with
the median HK$11 billion  estimate  of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg News, as gains from investment property revaluations
jumped 52 percent from a year earlier. Profit fell 54 percent
from the first half of 2011, when earnings were boosted by a
HK$18.6 billion one-time gain,  Cheung Kong  said in a statement.  Hong Kong’s  second-biggest  developer sold a total of 1,408
units for HK$12.5 billion in the first half, the second most
among all Hong Kong builders, according to figures compiled by
Centaline Property Agency Ltd. Higher rents pushed up the value
of its investment properties, the company said in the Hong Kong
stock exchange filing today.  “Judging from the pace of sales in the first half, Cheung
Kong will probably be doing fine for the full year,”  David Ng ,
a Hong Kong-based analyst at Macquarie Securities Ltd., said
before the earnings were announced.  Profit before taking into account the contribution of unit
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. rose 2 percent to HK$10.4 billion, the
company said. The developer posted HK$18.6 billion in one-time
gains from asset sales in the first half of 2011.  Property sales slowed as the city’s new Chief Executive
Leung Chun-ying pledged to increase housing supply to curb
prices that have gained more than 80 percent since early 2009.
Profit from property sales fell to HK$6 billion from HK$7
billion.  Property Revaluation  Earnings from property rentals for Cheung Kong, landlord to
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc in the city, increased
to HK$982 million from HK$919 million. Investment property
revaluation, net of tax, jumped 52 percent from a year earlier
to HK$2.8 billion, it said.  “A significant increase in the fair value of investment
properties was recorded during the period reflecting the growth
in rentals,” Chairman Li wrote in the statement. “With close
proximity to the Mainland, Hong Kong is poised to benefit from
the many opportunities arising from  China ’s continued
development.”  Li, 84, has in the past two years said that if buyers need
to borrow too much, they shouldn’t buy properties. He also
warned property speculators and signaled his concerns the surge
in Hong Kong home prices may not be sustainable.  Hong Kong home prices have risen 10 percent this year on
low  mortgage rates , even as property transactions slowed.  The
city’s new chief executive, who took over on July 1, has pledged
to increase housing supply to curb prices.  Shares Underperform  Cheung Kong’s shares have risen 11 percent this year, the
second least in the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, which
gained 13 percent. It only outperformed  Sun Hung Kai Properties
Ltd. (16) , the developer whose co-chairmen have been charged by the
city’s anti-graft agency for bribery.  The stock lost 1.1 percent to HK$102.30 at the 4 p.m. close
today, before the earnings were announced.  Cheung Kong last year made about 30 percent of its sales in
mainland China, the second-highest among Hong Kong’s five
biggest builders.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , Li’s biggest company, posted first-
half profit that beat analysts’ estimates after boosting
earnings from U.K. utilities, phone services in  Europe  and
retail stores in China. Net income was HK$10.2 billion, beating
the HK$9.55 billion median of five analysts’ estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Profit fell from HK$46.3 billion a year
earlier, when Hutchison booked one-time gains from a spinoff of
ports assets in Hong Kong and China.  Superman  Nicknamed “superman” by the local media for his investing
prowess, Li forecast in 2007 that China’s stock-market bubble
would burst and in 2009 predicted the rally in Hong Kong home
prices. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 65 percent in 2008,
the most among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets. percent.  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in  Hong Kong  real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $30.5 billion.  Cheung Kong will pay an interim dividend of 53 Hong Kong
cents a share, the same as a year earlier.  Helping Richard  Li, who’s 14th on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index with a
net worth of $24.1 billion, last month transferred a one-third
stake in a family trust that controls both Cheung Kong and
Hutchison Whampoa from son Richard to elder brother Victor, as
he seeks to consolidate succession planning.  Hong Kong’s richest man said in May and reiterated today
that he will offer financial support to allow  Richard Li  to
build businesses outside of the family’s Cheung Kong Group of
companies.  Richard Li is in talks with “several sizeable
enterprises” for possible acquisitions, the elder Li said at
the time, without identifying the targets. Li Ka-shing said he
has set aside funding for Richard Li that is “multiple times”
his son’s current assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  