-- China Cuts Transaction Fees for Share Trading
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-03T01:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-cuts-transaction-fees-for-share-trading.html
Chinese regulators, seeking to arrest
a 14 percent slide in the  nation’s stock market  since this
year’s high on March 2, reduced transaction fees on equities
trading by 20 percent.  The reduction will take effect Sept. 1 and save investors
600 million  yuan  ($94 million) in transaction-related fees in
the final four months of the year, the  China  Securities
Regulatory Commission said on its website yesterday. Separately,
the official Xinhua News Agency said that China is also
considering a cut in stamp duty on share trading.  The reduction follows a July 31 announcement by the
Communist Party’s Politburo that pledged to continue adjusting
policies to ensure stable economic growth. The  Securities Times 
said in a front-page commentary the same day that the government
should introduce measures to stabilize the stock market and
boost investor confidence.  “The government wants to be seen doing something
politically,”  Andy Xie , an independent economist who was
formerly Morgan Stanley’s chief  Asia  economist, said yesterday
in a telephone interview. “There’s a confidence crisis in the
stock market and there’s a perception that the stock market is a
trap and doesn’t reward investors.”  China’s benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  was little
changed at 9:40 a.m. local time. It fell 5.5 percent last month,
the worst-performing market in Asia, on concern an economic
slowdown is deepening and as  Europe ’s debt crisis hampers
exports to China’s biggest trading partner. The nation’s  economy 
grew 7.6 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace since
2009. Profits for industrial companies fell 1.7 percent in June,
declining for a third straight month.  CSRC Reforms  The lower fees are the latest measure to boost investor
sentiment. The CSRC in recent months urged listed companies to
pay more cash dividends and changed how initial public offerings
are priced. Chinese publicly traded companies, especially those
whose stock prices are below their book values, have obligations
to buy back shares, the China Securities Journal said yesterday,
citing an unidentified CSRC official.  “It’s one piece of good news out of all the bad news that
has come out,” said Hao Hong, Hong Kong-based managing director
for research at Bocom International Holdings Co. “It won’t
change anything for investors unless there is a change in
economic growth and earnings growth.”  The People’s Bank of China has cut  interest rates  twice
since early June and lowered banks’ reserve requirement ratio
three times starting in November to boost credit and support the
economy. China will expand to eight cities and provinces a pilot
program in  Shanghai  that removes business taxes and replaces
them with value-added taxes for some industries, the finance
ministry said yesterday. The move is designed to reduce costs
for non-industrial companies.  Stamp Duty  Over the past five years, the Shanghai index has been the
worst performer among the world’s 10 biggest stock markets with
a 52 percent slide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
index dropped 0.6 percent yesterday.  The government last cut the stamp duty on Sept. 19, 2008.
It’s a levy on share transactions imposed by the  finance
ministry  that’s considered the costliest of equity fees.  “When we cut the stamp duty, it’s always followed by a
technical rebound,” Hong said. “In the second week of 2008,
they cut the stamp duty and also the interest rate. We had a
small rebound, but we all know from September to November stocks
went down substantially further.”  Futures Fees  Trading charges will also be cut as much as 26 percent for
futures exchanges in Shanghai, Zhengzhou and Dalian, the
securities regulator said yesterday. The China Financial Futures
Exchange will reduce transaction fees by 28.57 percent, it said.  As a result, futures market costs may drop by 1 billion
yuan,  the CSRC  said. The Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses earlier
lowered fees levied for trading A shares by 25 percent on June
1. The regulator also reduced supervision charges on the
nation’s stock and futures exchanges this year.  “The cut in trading fees itself won’t have a big impact on
the market,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at Shanghai River
Fund Management Co. “But the prospect that the government will
follow up with more market-boosting measures such as the
suspension of IPO sales going forward may have investors
reacting more positively.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  