-- China Developers Fall on Property Curb Concern: Shanghai Mover
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T08:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-developers-fall-on-property-curb-concern-shanghai-mover.html
China ’s property stocks fell, with
the gauge tracking developers on the Shanghai Composite Index
declining the most in more than 1 ½ years on renewed concern the
government will issue more curbs to cool the real estate market.  The property  measure  dropped 4.9 percent at the close in
Shanghai, the most since January 2011 and the biggest loss among
the five industry groups on the benchmark index.  China Vanke Co. (000002) ,
the biggest listed developer on mainland exchanges, declined 6.8
percent to 8.7 yuan in Shenzhen, also the biggest retreat in 1 ½
years.  Poly Real Estate Group Co. (600048) , the second largest, declined
by 9.2 percent to 10.30 yuan, the most since April 19, 2010.  “Investors are speculating the government has enough
information to release new tightening policies,” said Dai Fang,
a Shanghai-based property analyst at Zheshang Securities Co.
“It’s hard to tell whether the government eventually will,
because they still put economic growth as a priority.”  China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the country will
“unswervingly” implement property controls and prevent home
prices from rebounding, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
this week, citing a government meeting held on July 26. The
country’s home prices posted the biggest gain in more than a
year in July, signaling a turning point for the nation’s
property market,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest
real estate website owner, said yesterday.  In Hong Kong, more than half of the 10 biggest decliners on
the  MSCI China Index (MXCN)  are Chinese developers. State-owned  China
Resources Land Ltd. (1109)  fell the most in two weeks by 4.6 percent to
HK$14.82 at the close in Hong Kong.  China Overseas Land &
Investment Co. (688) , the biggest Chinese developer listed in  Hong
Kong , dropped 3.4 percent to HK$17.70.  China’s eastern export city of Yiwu said it hasn’t canceled
the home purchase curbs, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported today citing the local housing regulator. That was in
response to a news report yesterday that the city had let the
restrictions lapse since the beginning of the year.  ‘Increasing Concern’  “Property developers have been selling at a discount and
they realize they have enough demand to remove that discount,”
said Zhu Jixiang, a Shanghai-based analyst at CSC International
Holdings Ltd. “This is increasing concern among investors that
this would result in more curbs by the government.”  China sent eight teams to 16 provinces late last month to
check on the implementation of its property curbs, according to
a statement on the central government website last week. The
nationwide check is aimed at “firmly” restraining property
speculation and consolidating result of the curbs, it said.  China should expand a property tax trial to additional
cities as quickly as possible to curb speculation, according to
a commentary on the front-page of the official China Securities
Journal on July 30.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  