-- China Set to Cut Corn Imports as Drought Spurs Record Price
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T07:34:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-set-to-cut-corn-imports-as-drought-spurs-record-price-3-.html
Record corn prices amid the worst U.S.
drought in more than half a century make it harder for  China  to
import, the manager of the country’s grain market said.
Shipments are set to decline, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “The U.S. drought has made it very difficult” for China
to import corn to boost supply, Zeng Liying, deputy director of
the State Administration of Grain, said in an interview in
Beijing. “But we do have stockpiles, and corn planting has
increased this year,” she said.  Shipments in the year from Oct. 1 may be less than the
record 5 million metric tons estimated for this year by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  as purchases depend on prices,
according to Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., one of four
researchers surveyed this week. Deliveries may decline to 3
million tons next year, the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said. Zeng didn’t comment on volumes.  A potential drop in imports by the second-largest user
highlights the impact in  Asia  of the grain’s surge to an all-
time high as baking weather across the Midwest reduces yields.
Lower corn shipments may contrast with greater resilience in the
soybean trade, with Rabobank International predicting that
arrivals of the oilseed into China, the world’s biggest importer,
may increase even after prices rallied to an all-time high.  Feed Mills  “The government has signaled it is preparing to sell state
inventory” of corn to control prices, Shanghai JC Chairman  Li Qiang  said, citing discussions with feed mills. Corn shipments
may decline as buyers who placed orders earlier this year sell
undelivered shipments for an immediate profit, he said.  Corn imports by  Japan , the largest buyer, will stay near
the lowest level since 1986 this year as record prices spur feed
makers to seek cheaper alternatives, the Japan Feed Trade
Association said last month.  South Korea  will consider
stockpiling corn, soybeans and wheat overseas to cope with
volatile prices, the country’s  Finance Ministry  said today.  Corn on the  Chicago  Board of Trade had the biggest monthly
rally since 1988 in July, surging 27 percent and peaking at
$8.205 a bushel on July 31. The December-delivery contract was
at $8.045 at 3:31 p.m. in Beijing. Soybeans, trading at $16.27 a
bushel, climbed to a record $16.915 on July 23. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. has issued a three-month target of $9 for corn and
$20 for soybeans.  On the  Dalian Commodity Exchange , corn ended at 2,397  yuan 
($376) a ton yesterday, 4 percent less than a record in March.
Importing U.S. corn at current prices costs about 2,900 yuan a
ton, compared with 2,500 yuan to 2,600 yuan for domestic
supplies, according to  data  from Shanghai JC.  Corn Shortage  While China was a net exporter of corn until 2010, usage
has outstripped record output as surging incomes in the second-
largest economy fuel consumption of animal protein, which uses
grain as feed. In 2012-2013, there’ll be a shortage of about 5
million tons on projected demand of 200 million tons and the
biggest ever harvest of 195 million tons, according to the USDA.  The soybean deficit is larger, and Daron Hoffman, Shanghai-
based director of research at Rabobank, said last month that
Chinese imports would continue to increase next year even after
prices in Chicago rallied to the highest ever. According to the
USDA, China will consume 74.5 million tons in 2012-2013, buying
about 61 million tons from overseas.  The rising price of U.S. corn makes it harder for China to
use imports to meet the shortage, Shang Qiangmin, director
general at the China National Grain & Oils Information Center,
said on July 31. China will defer purchases and wait for prices
to drop,  Wayne Gordon , a strategist at UBS AG, said on July 27.  In April, the U.S. Grains Council said that China may
displace Japan as the largest corn importer as early as 2014.
 China’s imports  in 2015 may total 20 million tons, according to
an October forecast from Singapore-based  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM)   The area in China planted to corn this year will gain 2.3
percent to a record 34.3 million hectares (84.8 million acres),
according to the China grain center. Above-average rains this
year will help to boost yields, said Li of Shanghai JC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  