-- China Central Bank to Maintain ‘Prudent’ Monetary Policy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T18:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-central-bank-to-maintain-prudent-monetary-policy.html
China ’s central bank said it will
keep pursuing a “prudent” monetary policy and the nation’s
economy will maintain stable  growth  even amid the risk the
global recovery will falter.  China will conduct policy fine-tuning at an appropriate
time and consumer inflation may rebound after August, the
People’s Bank of China said in a quarterly monetary-policy
report on its website yesterday. The  yuan  exchange rate will be
kept “basically stable,” the Beijing-based central bank said.  Chinese authorities are concerned that fallout from
 Europe ’s debt crisis will further hurt growth in the world’s
second-largest economy that has decelerated for six quarters.
Separately yesterday, the securities regulator said the nation
will lower transaction fees on yuan-denominated stocks after the
benchmark index fell this week to a three-year low.  “At present, the primary risk for the global economy is
still the  European debt crisis ,” the central bank said. The
possibility of Europe “triggering a double dip in the global
economy can’t be ruled out.”  The report reiterates government statements that China is
focused on stemming the slowdown without preparing a stimulus
comparable to the one announced in late 2008. Surveys of
purchasing managers due today will show whether an expansion in
services industries picked up or decelerated in July.  Growth Forecast  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday lowered its forecast for
China’s expansion this year to 7.9 percent from 8.1 percent and
for 2013 to 8.5 percent from 8.7 percent. “We expect growth to
accelerate in the rest of the year and 2013 as supportive
policies are gradually rolled out and implemented,” economists
including Hong Kong-based Cui Li said in a research report.  Japan ’s  Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-biggest maker of
construction equipment, this week warned of slower Chinese
demand. The company estimated industrywide sales in China may
fall as much as 30 percent this year after earlier estimating
growth of as much as 5 percent.  Central bank data yesterday indicated borrowing costs have
declined, with June’s weighted average loan interest rate at
7.06 percent compared with 7.61 percent in March. The proportion
of loans made above  benchmark rates  declined to 67 percent in
June, versus 70 percent in March, the report showed. The PBOC
cut  interest rates  in June and July, the first reductions since
2008, and allowed banks to offer bigger discounts below
benchmark lending rates.  Capital Flows  The central bank said it will boost monitoring of local-
government loans. Capital flows will be “basically balanced”
in the second half and the size of any net capital inflows or
outflows will be small, the PBOC said.  Authorities reiterated they will increase the two-way
flexibility of the  exchange rate  and reduce the frequency of
intervention in  currency markets . Gains in the yuan have halted
this year amid a slowdown in exports and economic growth. The
PBOC in April widened the yuan’s daily trading band for the
first time since 2007.  China’s securities regulator said the nation will lower
transaction fees charged on yuan-denominated stocks traded in
Shanghai and Shenzhen as officials seek to bolster investor
sentiment amid slumping share prices. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index has fallen 21 percent in the past year and
earlier this week touched a three-year low.  Trading Fees  China will reduce A-share trading fees starting Sept. 1,
following reductions earlier this year, the China Securities
Regulatory Commission said in a statement on its  website .
Trading charges will be cut for futures exchanges in Shanghai,
Zhengzhou and Dalian, according to the statement. The China
Financial Futures Exchange will trim transaction fees.  A research group affiliated with China’s cabinet said the
government should “appropriately” relax its lending quota and
loan-to-deposit ratio for banks, as well as cut lenders’
reserve-requirement ratio at a proper time, according to the
Shanghai Securities News.  China’s economy  may grow a little faster in the third
quarter and fourth quarter than in the second period, with full-
year expansion probably at 8 percent or a little higher, the
State Council’s Development Research Center said in a report
published in the Shanghai Securities News yesterday.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  