-- China Tells Olympic Badminton Players to Apologize
-- B y   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-08-02T07:01:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-tells-olympic-badminton-players-to-apologize.html
China  ordered the two badminton
players thrown out of the London Olympics for deliberately
playing poorly to issue public apologies as one of the women
involved said she’s quitting the sport.  Yu Yang, 26, and her partner Wang Xiaoli, 23, were among
four pairs expelled by the Badminton World Federation yesterday
for “not using one’s best efforts to win a match” during the
women’s doubles competition at the London games. Two South
Korean pairs and one from Indonesia were also expelled for
trying to manipulate their match ups for the knockout round of
the tournament by losing.  Yu said today on  Tencent Holdings Ltd.’s (700)  Twitter-like
microblog service the July 30 doubles match was her last.  “Goodbye Badminton World Federation, goodbye my beloved
badminton,” Yu wrote in a post. “You broke our dreams
ruthlessly. The whole thing is just so simple. It’s not complex,
but it’s unforgivable.”  Yu and Wang’s expulsion prompted criticism in China, with
Yin Hong, deputy head of  Tsinghua University ’s journalism
school, writing on his microblog that the incident was “quality
education for our citizens that not all principles can be
ignored for the sake of benefit.” The central government posted
a Xinhua News Agency report on its website that cited the
Chinese delegation as saying Yu’s and Wang’s behavior
“violated” the Olympic spirit.  The other disqualified players were Jung Kyung Eun, Kim Ha
Na, Ha Jung Eun and Kim Min Jung of  South Korea , and Meiliana
Jauhari and Greysia Polii from Indonesia.  Coach’s Apology  Li Yongbo, head coach of the Chinese badminton team, was
also told to apologize after an investigation by China’s Olympic
sports delegation, Xinhua reported.  “As head coach, I owe the supporters of Chinese badminton
and the Chinese TV audiences an apology,” Xinhua cited Li as
saying late yesterday. “Chinese players failed to demonstrate
the fine tradition and fighting spirit of the national team.
It’s me who’s to blame.”  Yu and Wang’s match against Jung and Kim drew a caution
from the umpire and jeers from spectators after the two teams
appeared to serve directly into the net or struck easy shots
long or wide.  On her microblog today, Yu said she and her partner were
playing with injuries and were trying to give themselves a
better chance in the knockout stages of the doubles competition,
which included a group phase for the first time during the
London Olympics.  Playing Hurt  “We got hurt and we just wanted to give up the game by
using the rules to have a better performance in the knockout
stages,” Yu added.  Indonesia  called on the sport’s governing body to review
how the competition was organized.  “Indonesia always honors the values and the spirit of the
Olympics and fair play,” Andi Mallarangeng, the country’s
Sports and Youth Affairs Minister, said in a statement posted on
the Indonesian Badminton Association’s website. “We respect the
Badminton World Federation’s decision, but we ask the federation
to review the competition format.”  South Korea defeated China in the Group A match 2-0 to set
up a meeting with another Chinese pair, Tian Quing and Zhao
Yunlei. By losing, Yu and Wang, the world champions and top
seeds, had avoided playing their compatriots until the final.  The behavior was repeated in the next match between South
Korea’s Ha and Kim and Indonesia’s Jauhari and Polii. Both teams
were also warned for deliberately trying to lose.  The behavior of the players, described as “unacceptable”
and “depressing” yesterday by Sebastian Coe, chairman of the
London organizing committee, was also met with condemnation in
South Korea.  The Chosun Ilbo newspaper said in front-page headline on
that the Korean teams had “forgot something more precious than
medals,” while the JoongAng Ilbo ran a story saying that the
players had “damaged the Olympics spirit and embarrassed the
nation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crystal Chui in  Hong Kong  at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  