-- China’s Stocks Drop for Third Day This Week as Developers Tumble
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-08-02T07:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-s-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-as-ecb-meets.html
Chinese stocks  fell for the third day
this week, led by property developers, on concern the government
will take more steps to cool the housing market and before
European Central Bank policy makers meet.  A  gauge  tracking real-estate companies plunged 4.9 percent,
the most since January. Poly Real Estate Group Co. and Beijing
Capital Development Co. sank more than 9 percent.  China  Railway
Construction Corp. declined 2.1 percent after agreeing to buy a
15 percent stake in  Inter Milan , an Italian  soccer club ,
according to people familiar with the talks. Baoshan Iron &
Steel Co. paced gains by steelmakers on speculation the
companies will buy back their shares to boost stock prices.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.6 percent to
2,111.18 at the close, as about thee stocks fell for each one
that gained. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 1 percent to 2,344.88. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, lost 0.5 percent in  New York .  “Investors are speculating the government has enough
information to release new tightening policies,” said Dai Fang,
a Shanghai-based property analyst at Zheshang Securities Co.
“It’s hard to tell whether the government eventually will,
because they still put economic growth as a priority.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 14 percent from this
year’s high on March 2 amid concern the economic slowdown is
deepening and Europe’s debt crisis is worsening. Europe is
China’s largest export market, making up 18 percent of the
nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin & Wanguo
Securities Co.  Developers Slump  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite Index was
at 14.3. About 5.4 billion shares changed hands in the gauge
yesterday, 29 percent lower than the average this year. The
index is valued at 9.5 times estimated profit, compared with the
three-year average of 14.7.  Poly Real Estate slumped 9.2 percent to 10.30 yuan. Beijing
Capital Development plunged 9.8 percent to 10.18 yuan, the most
since November 2010.  Gemdale Corp. (600383)  tumbled 6.4 percent to 5.43
yuan.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the country will “unswervingly”
implement property controls and prevent housing prices from
rebounding, the official Xinhua News Agency reported this week,
citing a government meeting held on July 26. The country’s home
prices posted the biggest gain in more than a year last month,
signaling a turning point for the nation’s property market,
SouFun Holdings Ltd., the country’s biggest real estate website
owner, said yesterday.  China sent eight teams to 16 provinces late in July to
check on the implementation of its property curbs, according to
a statement on the central government website last week.  Italian Soccer  China Railway Construction lost 2.1 percent to 4.72 yuan.
The transaction would include debt from the 18-time Italian
champion, said the people, who declined to be identified because
the negotiations are private. Hong Kong-based QSL Sports Ltd.
will also be part of China Railway’s investment group, the
people said.  Investors are looking for the European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  to make good on his promise to do
whatever is needed to protect the euro, interpreted by most as a
signal that the ECB will intervene in bond markets. Should
Draghi fail to overcome the objections of Germany’s Bundesbank
to such action, the disappointment could spark a selloff. He
holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.  The ECB officials will keep the benchmark  interest rate  at
a record low 0.75 percent, according to 51 of 55 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The decision will be announced at 1:45
p.m. in Frankfurt.  Rate Cuts  The  Bank of England  will also hold its key rate at 0.5
percent and maintain its bond-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($586 billion), surveys of economists show. That decision
is due at noon in  London . Two unexpected rate-cut decisions by
the Chinese central bank on July 5 and June 7 coincided almost
exactly with the release of the BOE’s policy statement.  Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, rose 1.2 percent to 4.25  yuan . Angang Steel Co.
jumped 1.6 percent to 3.75 yuan in Shenzhen, the biggest advance
since April 12.  Chinese publicly traded companies, especially those whose
stock prices are below their book values, have an obligation to
buy back their own shares, the China Securities Journal reported
today, citing an unidentified official at the China Securities
Regulatory Commission. Baoshan Steel’s per-share book value was
6.15 yuan while Angang’s was 7.01 yuan, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Baoshan Steel Vice President Chen Ying and Fu Jihui, board
secretary of Angang Steel, couldn’t be reached for comment.
China’s Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges have 111 companies
whose stock prices are lower than book values, with 17 being
steelmakers, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed 0.3 percent to $34.30,
the highest level since June 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  