-- China Money Rate Rises for Third Day on Maturing Reverse Repos
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-08-02T08:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/china-money-rate-rises-for-third-day-on-maturing-reverse-repos.html
China’s benchmark money-market rate
rose for a third day as maturing reverse-repurchase agreements
reduce cash in the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China injected 145 billion  yuan  ($22.8
billion) last week via seven-day reverse repos and offered 50
billion yuan of new contracts today at a yield of 3.35 percent,
according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions.  “The size of maturing reverse repos is bigger than the new
repos,” said Chen Qi, co-head of fixed-income research at UBS
Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “The market still expects a cut in
 reserve requirements  and money rates could be more volatile in
case they disappoint by further delaying a reserve-ratio cut.”  The  seven-day repo rate , which measures interbank funding
availability, increased seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 3.49 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. The
one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repo, climbed three basis points to 2.65 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  China ’s central bank has lowered the amount of cash major
banks must set aside by 150 basis points to 20 percent since
November to help revive local demand and economic growth.
China’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of contraction in
July, signaling a rebound in the economy this year has yet to
take hold.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to 50.1 last month
from 50.2 in June, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
in a statement yesterday. That compares with the 50.5 median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists. Fifty is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 