-- Citigroup Is Said to Join Firms Refraining From Knight Trading
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-08-02T23:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/citigroup-said-to-refrain-from-trades-through-knight-on-request.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  TD Ameritrade Holding
Corp. (AMTD)  and Scottrade Inc. suspended routing transactions through
 Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  as the market maker recovers from
software errors that caused a $440 million loss.  Citigroup limited its trades following a request from
Knight, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter who
requested anonymity because the firms’ dealings are private.
Scott Helfman, a Citigroup spokesman, and Knight’s Kara Fitzsimmons declined to comment.  Knight, one of the largest U.S. market makers, said it
suffered $440 million in losses as the breakdown prompted
erroneous orders and sent stocks swinging when markets opened
Aug. 1. The Jersey City, New Jersey-based company removed the
faulty software, and clients resumed their dealings by the end
of that day after Knight initially told them to go elsewhere,
according to Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce.  “We’ve got to make sure that we work with our
counterparties, our clients, to get the answers they want,”
Joyce said yesterday in an interview on Bloomberg Television.
“So we have work to do and we’re doing it right now.”  Knight handled stock orders for some of the largest retail
brokerage firms, including units at  Wells Fargo & Co .,  Fidelity
Investments  and Bank of America Corp., according to reports the
firms prepared under Securities and Exchange Commission rules.  Wells Fargo’s First Clearing LLC unit, which processes
trades for the bank’s retail brokerage, used Knight to handle 24
percent of its market-price orders for  New York  Stock Exchange-
listed stocks during the second quarter, according to a report
on the San Francisco-based company’s website.  Other Vendors  Fidelity Investments’ National Financial Services LLC unit
used Knight for 38 percent of its market orders, and Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch relied on the firm for 13 percent of its
orders. The figure was 41 percent at Scottrade, 10 percent at
Citigroup and 9 percent at Omaha, Nebraska-based TD Ameritrade.  TD Ameritrade hasn’t resumed routing to Knight, said  Kim Hillyer , a spokeswoman for the brokerage.  “We have a number of different partners so it was quite
easy for us to move on with other vendors,” she said.  Vanguard Group Inc. also is steering brokerage orders
through other vendors,  John Woerth , a spokesman for the Valley
Forge, Pennsylvania-based firm, said in an e-mailed statement.  It couldn’t be determined what specific types of trades
New York-based Citigroup is withholding from Knight.  Scottrade, the discount online brokerage, isn’t using
Knight “at this point in time,” said Whitney Ellis, a
spokeswoman for the St. Louis-based firm.  Morgan Stanley, the sixth-biggest  U.S. bank , resumed normal
trading activity with Knight on Aug. 1 and hasn’t halted since,
a person familiar with the matter said.  Knight Capital wasn’t listed among venues that received a
“significant percentage” of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s orders for NYSE-
listed securities in the second quarter, according to a filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  