-- Citic Buying CLSA Gives China Most Autonomous Asia Broker
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T03:59:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/citic-buying-clsa-gives-china-most-autonomous-asia-broker.html
Andy Rothman, a former American
diplomat who now runs  China  macro-strategy at CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets, had a blunt message for the broker’s clients in May
2011: The Communist Party’s control of finance companies leads
to “high-frequency interference.”  Now, about a year later, CLSA is on its way to being
acquired by  Citic Securities Co. (600030) , part of a state-controlled
investment group that ultimately answers to that party. On
July 20, Beijing-based Citic said it had bought a 19.9 percent
stake in CLSA and planned to purchase the remaining shares by
mid-2013 for a total of $1.25 billion.  The acquisition would give Citic, China’s top-ranked
takeover adviser and equity underwriter, access to CLSA’s
research and global client list as it expands abroad and
competes with rivals such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Citic’s
main challenge may be both retaining key employees and
preserving the autonomy at CLSA, ranked by Asiamoney magazine as
the most independent research firm for nine years in a row.  “It’s going to be a big challenge for Citic to harness and
smooth out their differences,” Chen Xingyu, an analyst at
Phillip Securities Research Pte in  Shanghai , said by telephone.
“If it isn’t handled well, the friction could lead to conflict
and management turmoil, and will certainly affect business
development.”  Horse Racing  Citic Securities, founded in 1995, is controlled by
government-owned Citic Group Corp., which holds a 21 percent
stake. The parent was established in 1979 by Rong Yiren -- who
went on to become a vice president of China -- to support former
leader  Deng Xiaoping ’s experiment with open markets. Its
businesses now span  banking  to real estate and oil exploration,
and the group reports directly to China’s cabinet.  CLSA, founded in 1986 in  Hong Kong , was led in its early
years by two former business reporters. The late  Jim Walker  and
Gary Coull -- who shared a love of horse racing -- found
similarities between journalism and broking, mainly “getting
fresh angles and moving them quickly,” Coull had said.  About 35 percent of CLSA is owned by staff and managers,
while  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ’s corporate- and  investment-banking 
unit held the remaining 65 percent until last month’s sale.  Half of the Hong Kong-based company’s clients are in the
Asia-Pacific region, with the rest in the Americas and Europe,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  said on July 23. The brokerage’s 1,500 employees span 20
countries. In contrast, the Chinese investment bank has about
13,200 employees, mostly on the mainland and in Hong Kong.  ‘No Precedent’  “There’s no precedent for a local company to have
successfully acquired and integrated a foreign and more global
target,” Jean Bao, an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods Asia
Ltd. in Hong Kong, said by telephone on July 26. “If they want
to bring in any revenue and cost synergies, then they will have
to merge the two platforms and it will be hard.”  Another challenge to successfully combining the businesses
will be Citic’s ability to retain CLSA staff, especially after
buying their stakes out, Ning Ma and Bowei Cheng, analysts at
Goldman Sachs-affiliated Beijing Gao Hua Securities Co., said in
a July 23 note to clients.  Japan’s Nomura Holdings Inc., once the world’s biggest
securities firm with a  market value  of $76 billion in 1987,
faced that problem following its 2008 acquisition of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s assets in Europe and Asia. Tokyo-based
Nomura saw an exodus of former Lehman employees, mostly
foreigners, following the payout of retention bonuses in the
first quarter of 2010.  Losing Independence  CLSA has already lost two senior bankers. Chairman Wu Changgen resigned at the end of June, two people familiar with
the matter said on July 25. Paul Lai, who started at CLSA in
January 2010 to help run investment banking in Greater China,
was hired by  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , Spain’s second-
biggest bank, at the end of May.  Other CLSA executives such as Rothman and CLSA Chief
Executive Officer Jonathan Slone said they expect to retain
their autonomy.  “They have committed to providing us the same degree of
independence and the same room for creativity that we’ve enjoyed
in the past,” Rothman, 52, said in an e-mailed response to
queries.  Working with Citic will bolster CLSA’s operations in China
amid the global rout in  capital markets , Slone, 50, said last
week in an interview.  “The independence of the company never has anything to do
with the shares,” Slone said. The firm will continue to operate
as a separate entity with its own management, Citic said.  ‘Bad Deal’  Still, investors’ concerns that the companies may struggle
to combine operations and keep employees erased about 6 percent
of  Citic’s market value  over two days from July 19, the day
before the accord was announced, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The shares have since rallied 1 percent in Shanghai
and 3.3 percent in Hong Kong.  “If they fail to keep the staff after spending so much
money, that will make the acquisition a bad deal,” said Hong Jinping, an analyst at China Merchants Securities Co. in
Shenzhen. “This is the market’s biggest worry.”  The companies still have time to craft their retention
plan.  Credit Agricole  has a  put option  to allow the Chinese
bank’s Hong Kong-based subsidiary to acquire the remaining 80.1
percent in CLSA for $942 million in cash, and they plan to
complete that by the middle of 2013. The 19.9 percent stake
acquired last month, following talks that began more than two
years ago, cost Citic $310.3 million.  Brokerage Income  The deal will give the Chinese investment bank CLSA’s cash
equities business, its global client-list of institutional
investors and research focused primarily on Asia-Pacific
markets. CLSA generates 75 percent of its revenue from “plain
vanilla” brokerage income, Deutsche Bank AG estimated on July 24.  Citic’s problems following the acquisition may include
managing a higher cost-to-income ratio because of expenses tied
to staff retention, competing with global rivals that have a
stronger track record, and coping with the slower pace of growth
outside China, Judy Zhang and Tracy Yu, analysts for Deutsche
Bank in Hong Kong, said in research notes last week.  “Citic Securities still has a long way to go,” Hong of
China Merchants said. “It will take more than five years” for
the investment bank to compete with the likes of Goldman Sachs
and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , she said.  Nomura, Macquarie  Still, the Chinese company is already Asia’s largest
securities firm by market capitalization, valued at about $21.3
billion as of yesterday. That is 60 percent more than  Nomura (8604) ,
which is valued at $13.3 billion, and more than double the size
of Sydney-based  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , which is at $9.15 billion,
the data show. New York-based Goldman Sachs is valued by
investors at $51 billion, and Morgan Stanley at $27 billion.  Citic will generate 20 percent of its revenue from overseas
operations after it acquires all of CLSA, the company said.
That’s up from the 5 percent that it gets now, primarily from
the Hong Kong unit.  In its home market, the investment bank is the top-ranked
adviser this year on takeovers where the sellers and the buyers
were Chinese companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It had an almost 20 percent share of a market with $37 billion
in transactions, the data show.  It’s also No. 1 among managers of share sales and rights
offers in China, and No. 5 on domestic debt underwriting, the
data show, partly because of rules that limit foreign investment
banks’ participation to joint ventures.  Outside China, Citic hasn’t done as well in the past.  Global Rivals  On the $372 billion of takeovers this year involving
companies across the Asia-Pacific region, Citic was ranked No.
31 among advisers in a market dominated by Morgan Stanley and
New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the data show. On share
sales, Citic was ranked No. 10, trailing Zurich-based UBS,
JPMorgan and Morgan Stanley.  Combining operations with CLSA will help “create a
business model which our competitors cannot match,” the Chinese
company said in an e-mailed response to questions. It can
“better assist our Chinese clients as they tap into the global
financial markets and help foreign investors to gain better
access to our home market in China.”  CLSA’s research operations will be key to helping Citic win
those mandates abroad, according to Hong of China Merchants.  “In the overseas market, research has a more important
role and CLSA is highly respectable with a very good track
record,” Hong said. “Citic Securities has to expand overseas
because that will help it better serve its clients as Chinese
companies grow and expand.”  Wood, Mayo  CLSA’s research unit is well-regarded in part because of
analysts such as  Christopher Wood , chief equity strategist and
author of the Greed & Fear report, as well as Mike Mayo, who
covers U.S. lenders and wrote “Exile on  Wall Street : One
Analyst’s Fight to Save the Big Banks From Themselves.”  Rothman, who joined CLSA in 2000 after 17 years as a U.S.
diplomat, provides economic and political analysis to investors
and is author of the weekly “Sinology” report.  In the May 2011 research note, which he co-authored with
Julia Zhu, Rothman said that while the Communist Party’s control
over  Chinese banks  doesn’t mean they are “incompetent or
insolvent,” the scope of its involvement makes policymaking by
the party the “biggest near-term risk” to China’s financial
system.  “The Party is probably the world’s most liquid financial
institution,” according to that report. “But the high level of
control leads -- as it does in any bureaucracy -- to high-
frequency interference or intervention.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Aipeng Soo in Beijing at 
 asoo4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  