-- Clinton’s East Africa Trip Focuses on Oil, Somalia, Security
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-08-02T16:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/clinton-s-east-african-trip-focuses-on-oil-somalia-and-security.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will encourage East African leaders this week to boost
security and political stability in a region threatened by al-
Qaeda and growing in importance as a source of energy.  Clinton is scheduled to arrive in Uganda today as part of
an 11-day tour that began in  Senegal  on July 31. She will meet
leaders from  Kenya , Uganda,  South Sudan  and Somalia, countries
essential to Washington’s strategy to fight Islamist militants
and expand American economic interests.  “The dimension of security will be a central part of her
visit,” Joseph Siegel, director of research at the Africa
Center for Strategic Studies, said in a phone interview from
Washington on July 31. “The U.S. shares an interest in bringing
stability to Somalia -- that’s a key point of focus -- and
reducing the threat that terrorism poses regionally and
internationally.”  The Horn of Africa nation’s Western-backed transitional
government and an African Union-led military force are battling
the Islamist insurgent group, al-Shabaab, al-Qaeda’s franchise
in Somalia. The country has been without an effective central
government since 1991 and Islamist militants, pirates and
criminal groups have made it a regional base of operations.  Securing Somalia  Al-Shabaab, which has been trying to rule Somalia by strict
Islamic law since 2007, has lost ground as the AU and Ethiopian
troops stepped up a multi-front offensive against them to pave
the way for Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s
administration to establish a permanent government.  “Somalia is the principal source of instability in the
Horn of Africa and several East African states --  Uganda ,
Burundi, Kenya and Ethiopia -- have taken a lead in trying to
stabilize the situation and have made more progress than we’ve
seen in the last 20 years,” Siegel said. “Clinton will applaud
that.”  The U.S. has killed al-Shabaab militants in special forces
raids, offered $33 million in bounties for the capture of its
leaders and supported the interim government, which yesterday
passed a draft constitution despite suicide bombers’ attempts to
blow up the venue where they met to vote.  In neighboring Kenya, Clinton and Ahmed will discuss a so-
called political road map that includes a deadline to elect a
new Somali parliament, speaker and president by Aug. 20. She
will arrive on Aug. 4, according to the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi.  Oil Diplomacy  She is also expected to meet with Kenyan President Mwai Kibaki in Nairobi, the capital, to appeal for fair and peaceful
elections set for March 2013. It will be the first poll since
allegations of ballot fraud in a December 2007 vote set off two
months of ethnic and political clashes that killed about 1,100
people and paralyzed  East Africa ’s largest economy.  East Africa is becoming a more favored destination for
investment and a potential source of energy supplies for the
U.S., Mwangi Kimenyi, director of the Africa Growth Initiative
at the  Brookings Institution , said by phone from Aspen,
Colorado, on July 31. Uganda is expected to start pumping its
first crude this year, while Kenya discovered oil for the first
time in March.  “There is increasing commercial interest in East Africa
from the U.S., which sees its national security interests tied
to securing energy supplies,” Kimenyi said.  U.S. oil and gas companies are increasingly taking on
acreage in East Africa. Houston-based  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO)  paid
$35 million to  Africa Oil Corp. (AOI)  for stakes in two Kenyan
prospects last month, while  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , also based
in Houston, has made the decade’s biggest gas discovery off
Mozambique and has rights to explore off Kenya’s coast.  Settling Sudan  In South Sudan, which marked a year of independence from
Sudan on July 9, Clinton will meet President Salva Kiir tomorrow
to discuss topics including “security, oil and citizenship,”
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said in a July 30
statement.  Hostilities escalated in April as troops from South Sudan
occupied the Heglig oilfield which is claimed by both, driving
the two countries to the edge of war. Even though South Sudan
withdrew after 10 days, the  United Nations Security Council 
threatened to impose sanctions if differences over oil transit
fees, borders and security aren’t settled by today.  In Uganda, Clinton will urge President  Yoweri Museveni  to
strengthen democracy and human rights, while acknowledging the
country’s role in boosting security including trying to hunt
down warlord  Joseph Kony ’s Lord’s Resistance Army, Nuland said.
Uganda was also the first country to offer troops for the AU
force in Somalia, and the U.S. sponsored training and equipment.
She’ll arrive today, James Mugume, permanent secretary at
Uganda’s Ministry of  Foreign Affairs , said by telephone from
Kampala, the capital.  Meeting Mandela  The U.S. last year deployed 100 soldiers to help Uganda and
neighboring armies find the LRA fighters, who also roam across
South Sudan, the Central African Republic and the  Democratic
Republic  of Congo.  After a visit to Malawi and President Joyce Banda, Clinton
will travel to sub-Saharan Africa’s largest economy where she
will pay tribute to former South African president and anti-
apartheid hero  Nelson Mandela , who turned 94 on July 18.  “ South Africa  is a key player in terms of governance,
economic and humanitarian interests, peace and security,” Anne
Fruhauf, an Africa analyst with Eurasia Group in London, said in
an e-mailed response to questions on July 31. “Its recent win
of the African Union presidency only reinforces this.”  Clinton cited Senegal as a beacon of democracy in Africa
during a speech in the capital, Dakar, yesterday.  Abdoulaye Wade , who ran for a third term in March presidential elections
which opponents said violated the country’s constitution,
conceded defeat to challenger  Macky Sall .  Clinton will attend the  state funeral  of Ghanaian President
John Atta Mills on the final stop of her African tour, the
British Broadcasting Corp. reported yesterday. Mills died on
July 24 in Accra, the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  