-- Cocaine Cowboys Know Best Places to Bank
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-08-02T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cocaine-cowboys-know-best-places-to-bank.html
To grow up in  South Florida  during
the 1970s and 1980s, as I did, wasn’t your typical American
childhood experience. Back then the area was known as the  most
dangerous place  in the country.  Carnage from the drug wars filled the local news long
before “ Miami Vice ” became a hit TV show. By elementary
school, my friends and I knew some of the lingo. A Colombian
necktie wasn’t a piece of clothing, but a gruesome execution
method. When I was 7 years old my barber was murdered in his
shop, apparently over a drug deal.  It had been a long time since I thought much about those
days. By chance I recently came across a fabulous documentary,
“ Cocaine Cowboys ,” by Miami filmmaker  Billy Corben . Then last
month a Senate panel held a  hearing  on the U.K. bank  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and its ties to drug lords,  money laundering , al-
Qaeda and rogue nations such as  Iran  and  North Korea .  Here’s a bank with $2.7 trillion of assets that flouted
U.S. laws for a decade, according to the July 17  report  by the
Senate  Permanent Subcommittee  on Investigations. HSBC turned a
blind eye to organized crime, Mexican drug cartels and overseas
terrorism financiers, and gave them access to the U.S. banking
system. HSBC’s main U.S. regulator, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, for years tolerated its violations
of anti-money laundering laws.  For this, HSBC and the OCC apologized.  Justice Department 
fines are likely. It’s an outrage HSBC hasn’t had its U.S.
banking licenses revoked, assuming the Senate panel’s report is
accurate -- and there’s no reason to believe it isn’t.  Try This  Let’s try out a novel idea: Banks that help drug cartels
launder money and give cover to those tied to terrorism should
be put out of business. Is that really so hard for everyone to
agree on? Free markets have worked in the U.S. because we have
the rule of law. It’s why so many investors from other countries
want to do business here. When contracts are breached, courts
can be accessed to enforce them. When individuals or companies
commit crimes, they’re supposed to be prosecuted and punished.  Except we have this mutant species of corporation called
too-big-to-fail banks whose collapse might wreck the global
economy. No financial institution in the U.S. can survive a
felony indictment. So these companies have become un-indictable,
creating a perverse nonchalance regarding financial crimes. In
2010,   Wachovia  paid $160 million to settle criminal  allegations 
of laundering Mexican drug money. By then the bank had been
bought by  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and the Justice Department let it
off with a deferred-prosecution deal. Usually the most that
happens to management is someone resigns, as HSBC’s head of
compliance, David Bagley, said he would at last month’s Senate
hearing.  What would it take for the government to really crack down
on wrongdoing in the financial-services industry? What finally
prompted the feds to do something about cocaine smuggling into
South Florida long ago was the epidemic of violence it spawned.  A defining moment came in July 1979, when drug traffickers
went on a  shooting spree  in broad daylight at the  Dadeland Mall 
in Kendall, southwest of Miami. This was unprecedented. The
gunmen arrived in a delivery van that had been converted into an
 armored personnel carrier . Two people were killed. Bystanders
dove for cover. Cars in the parking lot were riddled with
bullets from machine-gun fire.  Attacks like that became frequent over the next few years.
In 1979 there were 349 murders in South Florida, according to
the Justice Department, triple the number of two years earlier.
By 1981 murders had climbed to 621. The local police were
outgunned, outnumbered, easily corrupted and often stoned.
Finally in 1982 President  Ronald Reagan  formed a  task force  and
devoted hundreds of additional federal agents to South Florida
to restore law and order.  Cash Surplus  Back then, too, the cartels’ enablers included dirty banks.
As Corben’s film noted, in 1979 the  Federal Reserve ’s Miami
branch reported a $5 billion  cash surplus  -- more than the
country’s other Federal Reserve banks combined. One crucial
difference, compared with today, was the drug banks in those
days were relatively small. When an outfit such as  Sunshine
State Bank  got busted, it didn’t  threaten  the economy.  In terms of stray bullets, Miami is a much safer place
today. But mainly what the U.S. did was drive the cartels, the
turf battles and the killings into  Mexico , where the violence is
out of mind for most Americans even while much of that country
has turned into a narco-state.  Maybe if the bankers were the ones spraying machine-gun fire
in the streets, that might spur the U.S. government to take
meaningful, punitive action. Short of that, you have to wonder
if anything would. Too-big-to-fail isn’t merely an economic
problem. It is a great moral failing of our society that poisons
our democracy. Something has to give.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
 Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind  “you didn’t build
that” ; Richard Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic
fencing ; Mohamed El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the
world; Handel Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about ;
Anthony B. Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block
mortgage writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 