-- Companies Wary of Political Spending Two Years After Court Rules
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/companies-wary-of-political-spending-two-years-after-court-rules.html
Two years after the U.S. Supreme
Court ruled that companies could spend unlimited amounts to
support candidates, some corporate boards of directors are
putting restrictions on their political contributions.  A lot of their angst goes back to the summer of 2010, when
Target came under attack for giving $150,000 to a Minnesota
super PAC supporting Tom Emmer, a gubernatorial candidate who
vehemently opposed gay marriage.  The resulting public outcry overshadowed the retailer’s
prior support for such events as  Minneapolis ’s gay pride parade.
Liberal groups called for a nationwide boycott of the chain, and
customers posted online videos of themselves returning products
to Target stores. Not until Chief Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  formally apologized to employees did the public
relations debacle end.  No company wants to wind up the next Target, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Aug. 6 issue. Super PACs and other
groups are expected to spend $1 billion on this year’s election,
and some boards, under pressure from shareholders, are adopting
policies that force executives to reveal which candidates and
issues they’re putting money behind.  Target’s “an example that I think will be around for a
long time,” says Dan Bross, senior director of corporate
citizenship at Microsoft, which doesn’t give money to super
PACs.  Halliburton directors decided this year to tell investors
which trade associations it belongs to and to disclose what
portion of its dues goes toward campaigns. Hershey is disclosing
contributions even to groups that are allowed by law to keep
donors secret.  Tenet Healthcare , State Street, Chubb, Safeway
and Kroger also told stockholders they would adopt or strengthen
disclosure policies this year.  Transparent Contributions  “I want to be as transparent as possible,” says Dan Amos,
CEO of Aflac, which has just begun disclosing its contributions
to outside groups.  This year the insurer sent $55,000 to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, which plans to spend at least $50 million supporting
Republican candidates. Aflac also contributed $286,153 to
America’s Health Insurance Plans, a group that gave the chamber
$86 million to fight President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Aflac’s disclosures haven’t reflected badly on it so far,
says Amos. “We’re willing to face the backlash.”  Earlier this year a group of shareholders called for
directors of WellPoint to resign, saying the health insurer hid
spending that went to fight the health-care law, a violation of
its policy to report certain political contributions.  Kristin Binns, a company spokeswoman, wouldn’t comment on
the dispute.  According to the Sustainable Investment Institute, which
tracks corporate governance policies, in 2010 five Standard &
Poor’s 500 companies pledged to reveal to investors whether they
gave money to super PACs and other outside groups.  Today, 38 companies have such policies. That means hundreds
of corporations can still pump money into this year’s elections
in secret.  Says Bross: “Few companies want to be seen as
ideological.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in  Washington  at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  