-- Congress Clears New Sanctions on Doing Business With Iran
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/congress-clears-new-sanctions-on-doing-business-with-iran.html
The  U.S. Congress  voted to impose new
sanctions on companies and individuals that do business with
Iran’s oil and natural gas industries.  Those who provide commercial goods, technology or financial
services would face punishment under the measure passed 421-6 by
the House and cleared by the Senate without a recorded vote. The
bill goes to President  Barack Obama .  The measure,  H.R. 1905 , is intended to fill gaps in
existing economic sanctions on Iran’s economy to prevent Tehran
from developing nuclear weapons.  “We declare that the Iranian energy sector is off
limits,” Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican and chairwoman of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, said on the House floor. “Let’s stop Iran before
it’s too late.”  The Obama administration on July 31 announced new sanctions
on Iran’s energy and petrochemical sectors and on banks in  China 
and  Iraq  that have conducted transactions on behalf of Iran.  U.S. sanctions are part of the international economic
pressure on Iran to give up suspected efforts to develop nuclear
weapons. Iran denies pursuing atomic weapons and says its
nuclear program is for peaceful energy and medical purposes.  The legislation would impose sanctions on entities that
help Iran mine uranium, sell or lease oil tankers to the
country, or provide insurance for Iran’s oil sector.  Export Licenses  The sanctions could include the denial of export licenses,
prohibitions on loans or credits from U.S. financial
institutions and a ban on imports to this country.  The measure would let the president waive sanctions in
certain circumstances.  U.S. companies would be required to disclose Iran-related
activity to the Securities and Exchange Commission. U.S. visas
could be denied to foreign officials or shareholders with a
controlling interest in companies subject to sanctions.  Sanctions would be expanded for transporting crude oil from
 Iran  to another country unless that country had a special
exemption to import the oil. Also subject to penalties would be
owners or operators of vessels that conceal the origin of
Iranian oil or petroleum products, such as by disabling
satellite-tracking devices or concealing flags.  Human-Rights Abuses  Sanctions could also be imposed for supplying products that
could help Iran develop biological and chemical agents or
missiles, and for supplying goods that could aid in committing
human-rights abuses, such as guns, rubber bullets, chemical
sprays, electroshock weapons, tear gas and surveillance
technology.  The bill also would impose sanctions on people who provide
such aid for human-rights abuses in  Syria .  The Obama administration hasn’t announced a position on the
bill.  Ben Rhodes , a deputy national security adviser, told
reporters on July 31 that the administration was reviewing the
measure and thinks “it can be an important tool in adding to
the sanctions regime we have in place.”  Bob Einhorn, special adviser for nonproliferation and arms
control at the State Department, told reporters during a July 31
conference call that sanctions are having an effect.  He said that according to the  International Energy Agency ,
Iran’s crude oil exports have dropped from about 2.5 million
barrels a day in 2011 to fewer than 1.5 million barrels a day
last month. “That amounts to roughly $9 billion in lost
revenues for Iran in every quarter,” Einhorn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  