-- Congress Votes to Delay Deadline for Reports on Insider Trading
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-08-02T23:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/congress-votes-to-delay-deadline-for-reports-on-insider-trading.html
The deadline for lawmakers and senior
executive-branch officials to post financial disclosure forms
online would be extended by a month under a bill the House and
Senate passed in the waning hours before both chambers begin
their August recess.  The new deadline would be Sept. 30.  The reporting require was established by  a law  enacted
earlier this year to prohibit insider stock trading based on
confidential government information.  Former senior U.S. national security officials sent
congressional leaders a letter July 19 asking that military
personnel, career diplomats and officials working in sensitive
jobs be exempted from the disclosure requirements in order to
protect their safety.  Former  Homeland Security  Secretary  Michael Chertoff  and
former Director of National Intelligence Mike McConnell, along
with a dozen other former officials signed the letter, which
said, “Placing complete personal financial information of all
senior officials on the Internet would be a jackpot for enemies
of the United States intent on finding security vulnerabilities
they can exploit.”  “We believe that this new uncontrolled disclosure scheme
for executive branch officials will create significant threats
to the national security and to the personal safety and
financial security of executive branch officials and their
families, especially career employees,” they wrote.  Although the letter sought an exemption only for some
officials, the bill would extend the disclosure deadline for
Congress and the entire executive branch and buy Congress more
time to consider changes to the law.  “The security gap created by the STOCK Act’s online
financial disclosure requirement must be closed for the safety
of top military officers and others posted in dangerous locales
around the globe and for our national security overall,” Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Chairman
 Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent and original sponsor of
the law, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Because Congress is about to recess, an extension of the
effective date will give us the time we need to resolve this
problem in September,” Lieberman said.  The bill also clarifies that the wives and dependent
children of House lawmakers are covered by the law. The  Senate
Ethics Committee  previously ruled that the law applies to family
members of senators.  The bill is S. 3510.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  