-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Falls on Growth Concern: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-08-02T20:39:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-drops-as-concern-about-economy-mounts.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
dropped last week to the lowest level in two months on mounting
concern over the state of the economy.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 39.7 in
the week ended July 29 from minus 38.5 in the previous period.
Americans’ views on the economy slumped to a five-month low.
Other reports showed claims for jobless benefits increased and
factory orders dropped.  A rebound in gasoline prices and rising food costs caused
by drought in parts of the Midwest may curb the household
spending that accounts for about 70 percent of the economy.
Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday said they are prepared
to ease further if necessary as the jobless rate remains above 8
percent in the fourth year of the recovery, and the lingering
 European debt crisis  threatens to further slow the expansion.  “Consumers are skittish,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior
economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “Spending’s going to remain soft. I think the
consumer will continue to support the recovery. I just don’t
think they’re going to be able to lead it.”  The number of  applications  for  unemployment benefits 
climbed by 8,000 to 365,000 in the week ended July 28, as annual
auto retooling shutdowns continued to influence the reading,
Labor Department figures showed. The median forecast of 47
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an increase to
370,000.  Shares Fall  Stocks declined, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lower for a fourth day, as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors on immediate efforts to
bolster the region’s economy. The  S&P 500  fell 0.7 percent to
1,365.00 at the close of trading in  New York .  Stocks joined a global slump as Draghi signaled the ECB
intends to join forces with governments to buy bonds in
sufficient quantities to ease the region’s debt crisis, while
conceding that  Germany ’s Bundesbank has reservations about the
plan. ECB officials are working on the plan and details will be
fleshed out in coming weeks, he said after keeping the benchmark
 interest rate  on hold at 0.75 percent.  A U.S. Labor Department report tomorrow may show payrolls
rose by 100,000 workers in July after an 80,000 gain the prior
month, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed.
The jobless rate held at 8.2 percent last month, exceeding 8
percent of the 42nd consecutive month, the survey showed. That’s
been the longest stretch of such elevated levels since monthly
records began in 1948.  Spending Stagnates  Consumer spending  stagnated in June as labor-market
weakness prompted Americans to use the biggest gain in incomes
in three months to build savings, a Commerce Department report
showed this week.  Discounting may have helped lure shoppers last month.  Gap
Inc. (GPS)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted July same-store sales that topped
analysts’ estimates as promotions and warm weather boosted
shopping traffic, other reports today showed.  Two of three components of the Bloomberg Consumer
Confidence Index deteriorated last month. The gauge of the state
of the economy fell to minus 74.2 from minus 71.9. A personal
finances component also dropped, while a gauge of the buying
climate was little changed.  Other measures of U.S. confidence have shown mixed results.
The Conference Board’s sentiment reading unexpectedly rose in
July as an improving outlook about the next six months helped
overcome growing concern about the current state of the economy.
The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s measure dropped
last month to the lowest level of 2012.  Views ‘Soured’  “The lagged effect of rising food and fuel costs, combined
with a soft labor market and deteriorating growth, have soured
consumers on the current expansion,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. “Consumers have
clearly turned cautious, paring back on outlays and ramping up
savings.”  Last week’s comfort reading is close to the minus 40 level
that indicates “severe economic discontent,”  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in a statement. Eighty-
seven percent of respondents rated the economy negatively -- 22
percentage points above the weekly polling average in data
collected since 1985.  Seattle-based  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX) , the world’s largest coffee-
shop chain, is among companies reporting slower consumer traffic
in June and July as buyers pulled back spending amid concerns
about a cooling economy.  Confidence ‘Fractured’  “This is not a Starbucks issue, this is a macro problem,”
Chief Executive Officer  Howard Schultz  said on a July 26
earnings call. “We’ve got a fractured consumer confidence.”  Companies may also be losing confidence in the recovery.
Orders placed with U.S. factories unexpectedly declined 0.5
percent in June, reflecting less demand for business equipment
and the biggest decrease in bookings for non-durable goods in
more than three years, the Commerce Department said today. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a
0.5 percent gain.  Today’s consumer confidence figures also showed Democrats
recording higher sentiment than Republicans for a record 19th
consecutive week, a sign that election-year politics are
influencing consumer views.  Sentiment among independents dropped to minus 46.1 from
minus 45.1 last week, compared to their minus 20.5 long-term
average. The reading is the lowest of the three political
affiliations, indicating lagging confidence among potential
swing voters.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
18 years old and older. The margin of error for the headline
reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  