-- Continental AG Raises 2012 Forecasts as Supply Costs Fall
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-08-02T08:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/continental-ag-raises-2012-forecasts-as-supply-costs-fall.html
Continental AG (CON) ,  Europe ’s second
largest auto-parts maker, raised forecasts for revenue and
profitability this year after a decline in raw-material costs
and growth in sales helped second-quarter profit.  Revenue will rise more than 7 percent to exceed 32.5
billion euros ($39.8 billion), while adjusted earnings as a
proportion of sales will beat the 2011 figure, Hanover, Germany-
based Continental said in a  statement  today. That compares with
previous targets of boosting sales 5 percent to more than 32
billion euros and matching the 2011 profit margin.  The manufacturer, which is also Europe’s second-biggest
tiremaker, is selling more electronic products to luxury-auto
manufacturers such as Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s Audi unit, the top two in the industry. The strategy is
protecting Continental from a drop in Europe’s car market, which
may fall to a 17-year low in deliveries in 2012.  “All in all, it was a very good set of numbers” with
adjusted earnings and  cash flow  beating estimates, demonstrating
“very good underlying earnings quality,”  Daniel Schwarz , an
analyst for Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt  with a buy
recommendation on Continental stock, said by phone.  Adjusted Earnings  Second-quarter earnings before interest, taxes and
financial effects from the 2007 acquisition of  Siemens AG (SIE) ’s VDO
unit rose 26 percent to 948.3 million euros, led by a 40 percent
jump at the rubber-products division, Continental said.
Unadjusted Ebit increased 30 percent.  Revenue  rose  8.7 percent to 8.19 billion euros. Net income
jumped 65 percent to 520.3 million euros. The adjusted-Ebit
margin increased to 11.7 percent of sales from 10 percent a year
earlier. The full-year margin in 2011 was 10.1 percent.  “Our international orientation plays a major role in our
current success,” Chief Financial Officer Wolfgang Schaefer
said in a phone interview. “This allows us to more than
compensate for the weak European market.”  Continental  rose  as much as 2.3 percent to 75.49 euros, the
highest intraday price since April 27, and was trading up 1.5
percent at 10 a.m. in Frankfurt. The stock has gained 56 percent
this year, valuing the company at 15 billion euros.  Market Forecasts  For the second half of the year, Schaefer said he assumes
that “market dynamics will generally continue.” The U.S.
market will probably continue growing, although at lower rates,
while “ South America  was weak in the first half but will pick
up, and  China  is still showing good growth rates especially for
the international manufacturers producing locally,” he said.
Europe’s market will “remain at low levels.”  The component maker expects to return to  Germany ’s
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  in September. Continental was dropped from
the 30-company gauge after family-owned industrial-bearing
manufacturer Schaeffler AG gained control of more than 90
percent of the stock in a takeover effort in 2008.  Schaeffler has since reorganized the holding and currently
owns 49.9 percent of Continental stock directly, with another
10.38 percent maintained by B. Metzler Seel. Sohn & Co. and M.M.
Warburg & Co. on behalf of the Herzogenaurach, Germany-based
company.  “We are fulfilling the necessary criteria in trading
volumes and free float” to regain a place on the DAX, Schaefer
said today.  Raw Materials  Continental scaled back its forecast for raw-material cost
effects by 60 percent today, saying they will add 100 million
euros to spending this year. The company estimated in May that
the effect of higher rubber and rare-earths prices would amount
to a combined 250 million euros.  The manufacturer is working on reducing debt, which was
pushed up in the acquisition of VDO, to 6.5 billion euros at the
end of 2012, Schaefer said, reiterating an earlier target. Net
debt as of June 30 totaled 6.88 billion euros. Continental’s
 credit ratings  are below investment grade.  The company has ruled out larger acquisitions, though it’s
looking for smaller assets to expand the ContiTech division,
which produces tubes and conveyor belts, to gain more
independence from the automotive industry.  Continental is teaming up with Seoul-based SK Innovation
Co. to develop and manufacture battery systems for electric
automotive powertrains. The partners want to become the leading
global provider of lithium-ion battery packs with deliveries
starting in 2015. Continental already supplies Audi with
electric-drive components for the carmaker’s compact Q5 hybrid
sport-utility vehicle.  The German component maker is also providing parts for the
renewed version of Volkswagen’s best-selling Golf compact model,
which will reach showrooms before the end of the year.  Demand for safety applications, such as emergency braking
systems, as well as powertrains to comply with more stringent
emission regulations and information technology, has been
growing, Schaefer said.  “We’ve been getting tailwinds from focusing on future
technology trends,” Schaefer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  