-- Corn’s 60% Surge Is More Dangerous Than Euro Mess
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/corn-s-60-surge-is-more-dangerous-than-euro-mess.html
If Jim Yong Kim was hoping for a
honeymoon, the new World Bank president can forget it: To his
headaches over  Europe ’s debt crisis he can add surging food
prices.  Kim’s first month on the job was largely about gauging how
Europe is affecting the plight of the poor. There are troubling
signs that China and India are slowing, and that might leave
Asia, which has the largest share of extreme poverty, devoid of
growth engines.  That’s almost manageable compared with what’s confronting
Kim in month No. 2: the worst U.S. drought in 56 years and dry
weather in agricultural regions in India,  Kazakhstan ,  Russia  and
Ukraine. Coupled with exploding demand for food, the phenomenon
is causing violent commodity-price volatility at the worst
possible time for Asia.  Rising food prices limit how much central bankers can cut
 interest rates  to safeguard growth. More troubling would be the
potential setback to poverty-reduction programs for decades to
come.  The last food crisis began amid the 2008-2009 crash of the
 U.S. economy . In the second half of 2010 alone, according to the
World Bank, some 44 million people were pushed back below the
extreme poverty line, defined as those living on $1.25 a day or
less. Asia is home to the bulk of those who spend between 60
percent and 80 percent of their paltry incomes on food.  Price Spikes  “When food prices rise sharply, families cope by pulling
their kids out of school and eating cheaper, less nutritious
food, which can have catastrophic lifelong effects on the
social, physical and mental well-being of millions of young
people,” Kim says. “We cannot allow short-term food-price
spikes to have damaging long-term consequences for the world’s
most poor and vulnerable.”  Poverty isn’t an important metric for currency traders
placing bets. It doesn’t figure readily into bond yields or
stock valuations. Yet  Asia  is the latest and perhaps largest
frontier for capitalism and opportunity. Multinational companies
are counting on its swelling populations, growing cities and
emerging middle-class consumer sectors for profits in the
future.  Asians won’t consume if growth doesn’t reach them. They
won’t buy cars, electronics, fancy handbags, imported beer or
designer clothes if putting food on the table is at risk. More
important, if too many Asians are preoccupied by the struggle to
get enough to eat, that increases the threat of instability,
never an ideal setting for a flourishing economy. Food
inflation, remember, was among the crucial forces behind the
Arab Spring protests.  The good news is that corn prices may already be easing,
suggesting we might avoid a price spike as severe as that of
2010, when prices jumped 73 percent in just six months. Corn, of
course, goes into everything from sweeteners to biofuel to feed
for cows, pigs and chickens. Asia imports loads of it. The bad
news, of course, is that any price increase means consumers will
have to divert spending to food while the cost of other goods
rises as well. This raises the specter of stagflation.  India  is the most obvious candidate for that dreaded
combination of weak growth and rising prices if its central bank
tries to offset any slowdown by printing more money. Markets are
already wary of inflation -- up 7.25 percent in June alone --
coming in above central-bank forecasts of 6.5 percent this year.
India’s worst power crisis, one that left some 640 million
people in darkness this week, bodes poorly for the inflation
outlook. It’s emblematic of the nation’s infrastructure neglect.  China’s Exports  China has its own challenges as the era of cheap food ends.
The recent 60 percent jump in corn to a record since June 15 is
one problem. This year’s 35 percent surge in soybeans is
another;  China  is by far the Asia-Pacific region’s biggest
importer of soy. Wheat prices are zooming higher, too. China is
already slowing rapidly as Europe’s mess depresses demand for
its exports.  Asia’s policy makers also face a new dilemma. In recent
years, the challenge was boosting growth. Even the food-price
shock of the period was viewed as a cyclical phenomenon that
would pass once farmers responded with increased supply.  What’s different this time is that demographic trends point
to increasing demand for food as weather patterns undermine
supply. As world temperatures rise, agricultural yields are
becoming less predictable. And as U.S. droughts remind us, the
world’s food chain has become more interconnected at a time when
weather has rarely been so erratic. On top of it all, water is
becoming scarcer. It’s the new oil.  The quickest fix is increased investment in infrastructure
and smart government policies. The first remedy might be easy if
not for the traumatized state of the world economy. Strapped
nations want the private sector to step up, but market turmoil
is reducing appetite for risk-taking.  The second would be more plausible if farsighted leadership
were present. How many U.S. politicians are brave enough to end
all the policies that encourage massive supplies of corn to be
squandered making  ethanol ? And are Asian leaders willing in this
environment to provide a broader safety net?  In terms of policy, it’s vital that Asia get the next six
to 12 months right, and take measures to protect the poor.
There’s also more to be done by the  World Bank , which Kim
pledges will be a “more flexible partner” than it has been in
Asia’s recent past. If not, food costs might soon be wrecking
too many lives in Asia.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights:  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 