-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Jump After Mario Draghi’s Plan Disappoints
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-02T17:57:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/credit-swaps-in-u-s-jump-after-mario-draghi-s-plan-disappoints.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate debt risk
is poised to rise by the most in two months after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to address doubts
that his plan to buy bonds will stem the region’s crisis.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
4.3 basis points, the most since May 30, to a mid-price of 109.8
basis points at 1 p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The measure fell as much as 1.6 basis points
earlier. Contracts tied to  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  surged.  Investors are concerned that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
contaminate global balance sheets and hamper companies’ ability
to repay obligations. Draghi signaled today in  Frankfurt  that
the ECB intends to team with governments to buy sovereign bonds
in sufficient quantities to ease the region’s financial turmoil,
while conceding that the bank’s 23-member Governing Council
hasn’t reached a final agreement on the plans.  Investors were “a bit disappointed by Draghi,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps oversee $211 billion as chief portfolio
strategist at Wells Fargo Advantage Funds in  Menomonee Falls ,
 Wisconsin , wrote in an e-mail. “He didn’t come out swinging
with new programs.”  Benchmark Rate  Germany ’s Bundesbank repeated its opposition to sovereign
debt buying last week, saying the program blurs the line between
monetary and fiscal policy. Draghi, who vowed last week to do
whatever was needed to preserve the euro, said today that ECB
officials are working on a plan for bond purchases that would
likely focus on shorter-term maturities and would be conducted
in a way to soothe investors’ concerns about seniority.  Details will be fleshed out in the coming weeks, he said.
Earlier today, the ECB held its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low 0.75 percent and to leave its deposit rate unchanged
at zero.  “Draghi’s comments show the intent of being supportive for
reducing credit risk, but the lack of action and clarity
continues to weigh on the markets,”  Joel Levington , managing
director of corporate credit at Brookfield Investment Management
Inc. in New York, said in an e-mail.  The swaps benchmark gained even as data from the Labor
Department showed today U.S. jobless claims rose less than
forecast last week. The number of Americans applying for
 unemployment benefits  climbed by 8,000 in the week ended July 28
to 365,000. Economists had called for an increase to 370,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  MGIC CDS  Credit-default swaps tied to the mortgage insurer MGIC
increased 12 percentage points to 43.3 percent upfront,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. That’s in addition to 5 percent a year,
meaning it would cost $4.33 million initially and $500,000
annually to protect $10 million of the company’s debt for five
years.  MGIC, which hasn’t reported a profit since the second
quarter 2010, said today that the net loss for the period ended
June 30 widened to $273.9 million, according to a statement
distributed by PR Newswire. That’s the largest quarterly decline
since the Milwaukee-based company forfeited $280.1 million in
the fourth-quarter of 2009, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Insurance Demand  “There’s demand for  mortgage insurance  over time because
higher-quality companies don’t want to take that mortgage-
 default risk , but there’s nothing that suggests the companies
that currently exist will be strong enough to provide new
policies going forward,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income
strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which
oversees $12 billion in fixed-income assets, said in a telephone
interview.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  