-- Cruz’s Texas Tea Party Win Spells Tough Times for Perry
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cruz-s-texas-tea-party-win-spells-tough-times-for-perry.html
Ted Cruz’s Tea Party triumph is
rocking the  Texas  Republican establishment, as the newcomer’s
defeat of Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst in the  U.S. Senate 
primary runoff signals rough times for Governor  Rick Perry .  Cruz, a former state solicitor general from Houston who has
never held elected office,  buried  Perry-backed Dewhurst, 57
percent to 43 percent, in the second-largest U.S. state by
population. Dewhurst drew on his personal wealth to attack his
rival, while Cruz had help from Washington-based groups that
have backed other successful Tea Party-supported insurgents.  The July 31 loss by Dewhurst, 66, as well as several lower-
level Republicans may create strains for party leaders in Austin
when lawmakers return in January. Perry, the longest-serving
U.S. governor, quit the presidential primaries after failing to
win early votes. His stumbles hurt his standing with Texans, and
he faces an intraparty budget fight over school funding.  “This has moved the starting point for the 2013 session to
the right,” said  Mark Jones , the political science department
head at  Rice University  in Houston. “Taxes are off the table;
don’t even try.”  Both Perry, 65, and Dewhurst, who presides over the state
Senate, have terms that end in about two years. Dewhurst, who’ll
turn 69 in August 2014, may not seek re-election, Jones said.  ‘Reduced’ Prospects  “Perry’s prospects already were substantially reduced by
his failed presidential run,” Jones said. The governor’s
inability to deliver a win for Dewhurst “lowers them a little
bit more.”  Perry, who took office in 2000, has said he might seek
another term in 2014, and has left open the possibility of a
second presidential bid in 2016.  Before the voting, Perry, who had never lost an election
prior to venturing into national politics, indicated he had no
intention of stepping down.  “I’m not riding into the sunset,” the governor said at
the state  Republican Party  convention in June. His endorsement
of Dewhurst drew loud boos at the event.  Cruz, 41, won support from national figures, including
former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice
presidential nominee. A Public Policy Polling survey of likely
voters July 28-29 showed that just 16 percent said they would be
inclined to support a Senate candidate backed by Perry, compared
with 31 percent who said they would favor one endorsed by Palin.  Reaching Out  The governor has reached out to Tea Party groups, “trying
to straddle both worlds,” Jones said. He may face trouble from
local activists who won’t forgive his backing Dewhurst.  “Ted is a force to be reckoned with: an excellent
candidate and a great conservative communicator,” Perry said in
a statement after the results were known. “I call on all
conservative Texans to rally behind  Ted Cruz  in November so we
can remake the U.S. Senate in the image of Texas for the good of
all Americans.”  Dewhurst also threw his support to Cruz.  The influence of the runoff vote also may color state
legislative affairs, according to Cal Jillson, a politics
professor at  Southern Methodist University  in  Dallas .  “I think other elected officials in the state will be
running further to the right” rather than risk criticism from
emboldened Tea Party groups, Jillson said. “The insurgent wing
is now taking a dominant position.”  Low Turnout  Just 8.5 percent of the state’s almost 13.1 million
registered voters cast ballots in the Republican runoff for the
chance to fill the Senate seat held by  Kay Bailey Hutchison , who
is retiring. By contrast, 1.8 percent voted for a Democrat, a
race won by former state representative Paul Sadler.  Several Republican incumbents in the state House and Senate
lost runoff votes to Tea Party-backed opponents. Among the
losers were Representatives Chuck Hopson and Sid Miller, who
lead committees, and Senator Jeff Wentworth, chairman of his
chamber’s Open Government panel.  No Democrat has won a statewide election since 1994.  Cruz, who started his campaign barely registering in voter
surveys early last year, combined local politicking with support
from Tea Party groups and $8.36 million in spending by
organizations such as the Club for Growth and the Senate
Conservatives Fund, both based in  Washington . Their PAC money,
which paid for ads attacking Dewhurst, helped offset the $19.2
million of his own fortune that Dewhurst loaned to his campaign.  Big Spenders  Including spending for Dewhurst and other candidates,
outsiders pumped about $14.6 million into the race, at least
three times more than any other Senate primary, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a nonprofit group in Washington.
The next highest,  Indiana , saw $4.89 million poured into the May
election in which  Richard Mourdock , the Tea Party-backed state
treasurer, toppled six-term incumbent Republican  Richard Lugar .  “Even when the odds against him were long, Cruz was
willing to put in the 70- and 80-hour weeks, traveling to
Nacogdoches, Big Spring, Lufkin, meeting with 100 or 50 people
in some dingy VFW hall,” Jones said, referring to the Veterans
of Foreign Wars. “Dewhurst left the door wide open by refusing
to attend those events.”  Cruz praised his volunteers in his victory speech at a
Houston hotel, including one supporter who he said had made
8,000 telephone calls on his behalf.  FreedomWorks, a political action committee started by
former Texas Republican U.S. Representative  Dick Armey , brought
in people to staff telephone banks and organized neighborhood
events, Ryan Seth Hecker, the Washington-based organization’s
chief operating officer, said at the Cruz victory party.  “We printed 30,000 yard signs,” Hecker said. “We made
more than 1 million phone calls.”  “This was a bottom-up, grassroots campaign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net . 