-- Cuomo Gets Truckers to Pay for Canal Fix That Eluded Dad
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-08-02T19:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cuomo-gets-truckers-to-pay-for-erie-canal-fix-that-eluded-father.html
It takes David Sylvaria about two
hours to pilot the Grande Mariner, a 184-foot cruise ship,
almost 20 miles along  New York ’s  Erie Canal .  “This is slow going no matter what,” Sylvaria said one
afternoon last month as he steered the ship from Little Falls
east to Canajoharie. “I wish we could gun it, believe me.”  The canal’s progress from a dying 19th century shipping
lane to an economic-development engine has moved just as slowly.
Since Governor  Mario Cuomo ’s administration in the early 1990s,
the state has spent tens of millions of dollars to turn the
canal, which opened the U.S. Midwest to the Atlantic Ocean, into
a tourist destination to revive the upstate economy.  A still-unfinished pedestrian trail along the 363-mile
waterway has taken more than 10 years to build, longer than the
canal itself. Plans to redevelop a canal harbor in Syracuse
languished for decades.  A consultant’s  report  in May found that Canal Corp., the
New York Thruway Authority subsidiary that runs the waterway,
has no “meaningful strategy” to make money from it. The state
spends as much as $90 million a year, primarily from tolls, to
operate the canal and takes in only $2 million in revenue,
Chicago-based  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)  said.  As Thruway officials prepare to raise truck tolls 45
percent, critics including the American Trucking Associations
and New York Farm Bureau say the canal is sapping funds that can
be used to offset the increase.  ‘Significant Reason’  “The Canal Corp. is a significant reason why we’re looking
at a toll increase,” Brian Sampson, executive director of
 Unshackle Upstate,  a Rochester-based business group, said in a
telephone interview. “The canal is such a part of our history
that we should never walk away from it, but let’s be honest
about what it is: At this point, it’s a tourist attraction.”  Tom Madison, Thruway Authority executive director, said the
agency is looking at public-private partnerships to get more
revenue from the canal system. Including the Champlain, Cayuga-
Seneca and Oswego canals, the network covers 524 miles (843
kilometers).  “Historically, we’ve disposed of Canal Corp. land here and
there,” Madison said in a telephone interview. “We’re talking
about rolling together parcels of property and really doing more
proactive marketing of the property.”  Clinton’s Ditch  The brainchild of Governor De Witt Clinton, the Erie Canal,
known as “Clinton’s Ditch,” opened in 1825, eight years after
workers with shovels and pickaxes began building the waterway
from Buffalo to  Albany . It opened up the Midwest by allowing
goods to move from  New York City  up the  Hudson River  to the
 Great Lakes . New York state issued bonds to pay for the $7
million construction, one of the first municipal debt sales.  In 1903 state voters  approved  spending $101 million for a
new, deeper and wider canal, which is the waterway in use today.
Commercial traffic reached its peak in 1951 and dwindled to
9,107 tons in 2010 and 6,150 tons last year, when Tropical Storm
Irene hit. Thirty years ago, the canal handled 600,000 tons a
year. The state constitution requires that it be kept navigable.  Democrat  Andrew Cuomo , Mario’s son and the current
governor, showered $237 million on canal towns while serving as
U.S. secretary of Housing and Urban Development under President
 Bill Clinton . Then, as now, the goal was to help revive an
upstate region where the  poverty rate  rose to 13 percent in 2008
from 11 percent in 2000, according to a 2011  report by Cornell
University .  Bank Collapse  A 25-mile section of the canal was shut yesterday in
western New York after a bank partially collapsed near Albion, a
town of 6,000 residents about halfway between Rochester and
Buffalo. Before going to visit the site, Cuomo said at a press
conference in Batavia that New York remains committed to
maintaining the waterway.  “The state has the resources to take care of the
problems,” he said.  Economic activity from the canal amounts to about $380
million annually, said Brian Stratton, director of canals,
citing a 2002 study by Eric Mower and Associates, a marketing
and communications firm based in Syracuse.  Rhine River  Part of the state’s plan is to make the Erie Canal as
appealing as  Germany ’s Rhine River, Stratton said. From 2000 to
2010, boating on the canal declined 23 percent to 99,343
vessels, according to the Thruway Authority.  “We’re really looking at the model established in  Europe ,
where smaller but similar vessels cruise through the Rhine and
other great areas,” he said. “We want to take that very
successful model and bring it here to a very significant history
corridor along the Erie.”  On board the Grande Mariner, retirees from Alabama,
Massachusetts and  Florida  marveled as Sylvaria, the 35-year-old
captain, maneuvered into Lock 17, near Little Falls. As the lock
emptied, the ship descended more than 40 feet (12 meters).  It was the 12th day of a  16-day voyage  that took passengers
from  Chicago , through the Great Lakes and connected with the
Erie Canal near Buffalo, according to the website for Blount
Small Ship Adventures, which operates the vessel. The trip,
which cost $5,000 per person, ended in Narragansett Bay,  Rhode
Island , near the company’s headquarters.  Village Revival  Farther east along the canal system near Albany, the town
and village of Waterford won a $1.5 million grant and a $3.6
million loan from HUD in 1997 to build a visitors center and
improve a stretch of the Champlain Canal.  Fifteen years later, the village has seen the storefronts
on Broad Street, its business district of about 20, go from
being half-empty to about 85 percent occupied, said Russ
Vandervoort, the village treasurer. Colleen Coloney, who has
owned the Broad Street Café for 17 years, said the improvements
bring in customers.  “We see new faces every week and people who come back and
say, ‘Hi, do you remember us from last year?’” Coloney said.  Still, some parts of the canal’s redevelopment have
struggled. In 2002, Governor  George Pataki , a Republican,
announced a five-year, $35 million plan to finish building the
348-mile  Erie Canalway Trail  for bikes and pedestrians. In July,
Canal Corp. said it would complete a section of the asphalt
trail near Lyons in western New York this year, which would
leave about 25 percent of the trail still unfinished.  Syracuse Harbor  In Syracuse, after failing for decades to develop a former
barge terminal, Canal Corp. last year transferred 34 acres
surrounding the Inner Harbor to the city for free.  Within a year, Syracuse selected a local developer, COR
Development Co., which plans to transform the area into a
neighborhood with apartments, a hotel, shops, and a satellite
campus for the Onondaga Community College. COR will pay $2.8
million, which will be used to clean polluted land. After the
cleanup, the remainder of the funds will revert to Canal Corp.  Stratton said the Syracuse project is an example of how
state officials can work with private industry and local
governments to develop Canal Corp. property.  “The value is not in the sale of the land,” Stratton
said. “It’s in the economic activity that’s generated after.”  Canal Corp. has received about $1 million from land sales
in the last five years, according to R.W. Groneman, a spokesman.  The cost of maintaining a system that’s become a living
museum -- the brass levers used to lift the locks are 100 years
old -- has business groups pushing Cuomo to reconsider the
canal’s position under control of the Thruway Authority.  Toll Increase  Unshackle Upstate, the New York Farm Bureau and the
American Trucking Associations were among more than a dozen
groups that suggested such a change in a July 24 letter to Cuomo
that cited the Navigant report.  It was Navigant that recommended a toll increase. If the
increase doesn’t happen, the authority may face a downgrade on
its A+  credit rating  just as it’s planning to sell toll-backed
bonds to build a new $5.2 billion Tappan Zee Bridge over the
Hudson River,  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Services
said in June. The 3.1-mile bridge 20 miles north of New York
City carries 138,000 vehicles each day, 40 percent more than its
design intended.  According to the report, the Thruway Authority has
considered closing portions of the canal, selling land and
developing public-private-partnerships for recreational
development projects.  “However, to date, no meaningful strategy has been
pursued,” the report said.  Bill Kupper, a retired television ad salesman who lives in
Sarasota, Florida, was among the more than 60 passengers on the
Grande Mariner. He wasn’t concerned about operating costs. He
saw the canal as a piece of American history.  “It became like the pyramids or the Great Wall of  China ,”
Kupper said. “That’s how it stood in the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
William Glasgall at 
 wglasgall@bloomberg.net  