-- Cybersecurity Bill’s Prospects Wane Amid Election-Year Politics
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cybersecurity-bill-s-prospects-wane-amid-election-year-politics.html
Prospects waned for legislation
designed to strengthen U.S. defenses against computer attacks as
an assistant to President  Barack Obama  called Republican
opposition “hard to believe.”  With the  U.S. Senate  set to leave Washington by the end of
this week for its August recess, Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a
Nevada Democrat, is seeking to end debate today and move to a
vote on a cybersecurity proposal backed by Obama.  Efforts to forge a compromise have bogged down as
Republicans contend that even voluntary standards to protect
critical infrastructure would harm business, and senators from
both parties offered amendments on topics including  gun control 
and Obama’s health-care overhaul.  “Presidential politics are overtaking this bill at a rapid
clip,” Stewart Baker, a former assistant secretary for policy
at the Department of  Homeland Security , said in an interview.  “There are too many people willing to play politics with
this and too many outside groups wanting it to die, and it’s
finally catching up with the bill,” said Baker, a partner at
the Steptoe & Johnson law firm in  Washington .  Lawmakers have failed to reach consensus amid warnings by
current and former national security officials that U.S.
networks are vulnerable to disruption by hackers and computer
viruses, and to digital espionage by China and other countries
intent on stealing American intellectual property.  Cyber Attack  Obama’s administration yesterday made a final push for the
Senate legislation, which it says is necessary to protect the
nation from a potentially catastrophic cyber attack.  “We find it hard to believe that there is any reason or
basis to oppose this legislation,”  John Brennan , the White
House counterterrorism adviser, told reporters on a conference
call yesterday.  Wrangling in the Senate has focused on security standards
for privately owned infrastructure, such as power grids and
water-treatment plants. Even if the Senate passes a bill, it
will have to be reconciled with a differing measure that passed
the  House of Representatives , as Congress grapples with pending
automatic spending cuts and prepares for the November election.  Sponsors of the Senate bill, led by  Joe Lieberman , a
Connecticut independent, revised their measure last month in a
bid to win Republican support. They replaced cybersecurity
requirements for infrastructure that would be established by the
Homeland Security department with a system of voluntary
standards, encouraged by incentives such liability protection.  Lieberman also changed provisions allowing businesses and
government to share cyber threat information, adding privacy
protections for consumer data in a nod to concerns expressed by
civil liberties groups.  Opponents Unmoved  The changes so far haven’t swayed Republicans and industry
groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Financial
Services Roundtable, and  American Bankers Association , which
have called the voluntary standards a back door to additional
government regulation.  “The people who are directly affected by this, and that’s
the business community of the United States of America, is
unalterably opposed to the legislation in its present form,”
Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican, said on the Senate
floor yesterday.  Information Sharing  McCain is sponsor of an alternative bill, supported by the
Chamber of Commerce and business groups, which would promote
sharing of cyber threat information without including
infrastructure security mandates. The Republican-controlled
House of Representatives passed a similar measure in April.  General Keith Alexander, director of the National Security
Agency and U.S. Cyber Command, said last month that cyber
attacks on critical infrastructure increased 17-fold between
2009 and 2011. He cited reports that digital adversaries have
stolen $1 trillion of U.S. intellectual property.  “This is rising to be a greater threat than any other
threat we face today,” Lieberman, chairman of the Senate
Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee, said
yesterday. He implored his colleagues to hold back amendments on
such unrelated topics as health care and gun control that could
thwart the legislation.  Democrats  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey and  Charles Schumer  of New York had proposed an amendment putting limits on
high-capacity gun magazines, like one used in the July 20
Colorado theater shooting.  It’s difficult to see how the co-sponsors could alter the
bill further, given the compromises they’ve already made by
moving to voluntary industry standards,  James Lewis , technology
program director at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington, said in an interview.  “They’ve already thrown so much overboard, there’s very
little left to sacrifice,” Lewis said.  The Lieberman bill is S. 3414. The McCain bill is S. 3342.
The House bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  