-- Cybersecurity Bill Blocked by Republicans in U.S. Senate
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-08-02T17:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/cybersecurity-bill-blocked-by-republicans-in-u-s-senate.html
Senate Republicans today blocked a
bill intended to boost U.S. computer defenses, dealing a blow to
a measure President  Barack Obama  says is needed to prevent
potentially crippling cyber attacks by hackers.  An attempt by the Senate’s Democratic leadership to force a
final vote on the legislation failed to get the 60 votes needed
under Senate rules. The tally was 52-46, largely along party
lines.  Republican opposition to the measure is “a profound
disappointment, said  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary, in an e-mailed statement. ‘‘The politics of
obstructionism, driven by special-interest groups seeking to
avoid accountability, prevented Congress from passing
legislation to better protect our nation from potentially
catastrophic cyber attacks.’’  With the Senate set to begin an August recess at the end of
this week, the odds are slim for reviving a computer security
bill before November’s election, said  James Lewis , technology
program director at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies in Washington.  ‘‘Nobody in Congress denies that we need to do something,
but between business pressures and electoral pressures there’s
no way they’re going to get to anything useful,” Lewis said in
an interview. “The game now will be each side blames the
other.”  Digital Threats  The Obama administration and the bill’s backers devoted the
days leading up to the vote to issuing dire warnings about the
danger of digital attacks on vital U.S. assets such as power
grids, telecommunications networks and chemical plants.
Republicans said the measure would lead to excessive government
regulations.  Supporters had been pushing for action on the bill before
the recess, saying lawmakers would be distracted by election
politics later this year.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, said before the vote that Majority Leader  Harry Reid 
was trying to “steamroll” opponents. Reid, a Nevada Democrat,
said Republicans are “running like scared cats” to please the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which opposed the measure.  Five Republicans crossed party lines to vote in favor of
proceeding with the bill, and five Democrats sided with
Republicans in blocking the measure. Reid also voted no for
procedural reasons, so he can later bring up the bill for
reconsideration.  Protecting Infrastructure  Sponsored by Senators Joseph Lieberman, a Connecticut
independent, and  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican, the
legislation would have set voluntary security standards for
important privately owned infrastructure, with incentives to
encourage companies to adopt the protections against hackers and
malicious software.  It would also have encouraged information sharing on cyber
threats between businesses and the U.S. government.  The Senate’s Republican leadership, the Chamber of Commerce
and other business groups said the voluntary infrastructure
standards would be a back door to  government regulation .  Cyber attacks on U.S. computer networks increased 17-fold
from 2009 through 2011, General Keith Alexander, director of the
National Security Agency and the U.S. Cyber Command, said last
month, citing reports that digital adversaries have stolen $1
trillion of U.S. intellectual property.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, and
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , the world’s largest defense company, were
among U.S. companies that suffered cyber attacks last year.  Seeking Support  In a bid to win Republican support, Lieberman last month
revised his original legislation, which had called for the
government to establish security rules for infrastructure, to
instead seek voluntary standards.  A cybersecurity bill that passed the Republican-controlled
House in April focuses on cyber-threat information sharing
without setting standards for companies. It is sponsored by
Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who leads the
House Intelligence Committee.  “Because of the president’s push for aggressive regulation
of the private sector in any cybersecurity legislation, and the
White House’s refusal to engage on real consensus measures, the
Senate is likely to miss a key opportunity to move a
cybersecurity bill this year,” Rogers said in an e-mailed
statement before the Senate vote.  Carney described the House bill as “deeply flawed,”
saying it threatens the privacy of consumer data and does
nothing to protect the nation’s infrastructure.  Lieberman’s bill is S. 3414. Rogers’s bill is H.R. 3523.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  