-- Daffy’s, Discount Retailed, to Sell Assets, Liquidate
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-02T17:32:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/daffy-s-discount-retailed-to-sell-assets-liquidate.html
Daffy’s Inc., the discount fashion
retailer that began in 1961 as “Daffy Dan’s Bargaintown,”
plans to sell all its assets and liquidate merchandise in
bankruptcy, citing competition from online retailers that turned
over 50 years of profits into losses beginning in 2011.  The 19-store chain in the U.S. Northeast, with 1,162
employees, plans to sell its real estate leases and merchandise
and repay creditors in full, according to papers filed yesterday
in Manhattan bankruptcy court. A joint venture of Gordon
Brothers Retail Partners LLC and Hilco Merchant Resources LLC
will liquidate merchandise, and Jericho Acquisitions I LLC, an
affiliate of JEMB Realty Corp., will buy the company’s leases
and certain intellectual property for $43 million, if the court
approves, Daffy’s said.  Daffy’s, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , filed for Chapter
11 protection listing assets of $60.2 million and debt of $70.5
million as of July 1.  “The debtors’ operations during the last 50 years have
generally been profitable,” company Vice President of Finance
Richard Kramer said in court papers. Beginning in 2011, the
economic downturn and increased competition from online discount
retailers led to a loss of $11.4 million.  New Management  After hiring new senior management in February of 2011,
losses continued, and by early 2012, Daffy’s board had fired the
new management and begun cutting costs. Sales continued to
decline by about $1 million to $1.5 million a month, and on June
5, one of its lenders,  Wells Fargo & Co ., said Daffy’s had
defaulted on a loan, according to court papers.  Net sales for the year ended Jan. 1 were $151.3 million,
and net operating losses were $11.4 million, the company said.  Irving Schulman opened the company’s first store in 1961 in
Elizabeth, New Jersey, and the chain grew to 19 stores while
selling brands such as  Calvin Klein , Coach and Timberland at a
discount. Nine of the stores are in  New York .  Under its agreement with the liquidators, Daffy’s will get
99.5 percent of the cost of its inventory, estimated to be worth
about $17 million. The agreement will therefore give Daffy’s
about $16.92 million, depending on a final estimate of the
inventory’s value when liquidation sales begin.  Family Trusts  Marcia Wilson, the company’s main shareholder, owns Daffy’s
along with five family trusts which hold voting stock in the
company. An affiliate of Jericho, along with Morris Bailey, will
also buy certain properties from Wilson, for $40 million,
according to court papers.  JEMB Realty, a Manhattan-based real estate developer, said
in a statement today that an affiliate would buy three
properties from Daffy’s at an undisclosed price. The company is
looking forward to working with Daffy’s on a wind up of its
business, JEMB Chief Executive Officer Morris Bailey said in a
statement.  Daffy’s assets had been used to guarantee the three
properties’ loan obligations, worth $9.4 million, to Wells
Fargo. Daffy’s also made a $1.2 million loan to a former
director of the company, under which $613,000 is outstanding,
according to court papers.  The sale of real estate leases to Jericho Acquisitions I
for $43 million includes Daffy’s most valuable asset -- a lease
for its 97,124 square-foot store at Herald Square in  Manhattan ,
being sold for $20 million. Daffy’s said the lease has a current
rent which is substantially below market rates.  Lease Sale  Daffy’s said it expects to get $60 million from the sale of
its merchandise and leases, more than enough to repay $27
million in pre-bankruptcy claims and pay bankruptcy costs of
more than $5 million, allowing all creditors will be repaid in
full, with interest. As a result, it isn’t filing an outline of
the terms of its plan or soliciting creditor votes, the company
said in court papers.  Daffy’s joins  Syms Corp. (SYMSQ)  and its Filene’s Basement LLC
affiliate in bankruptcy. The two clothing chains filed for
bankruptcy in November as  consumer spending  dropped and
competition from discount retailers increased.  The company’s bankruptcy petition was filed by lawyers at
Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP.  The case is In re Daffy’s Inc., 12-13312,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  -- Editors:  John Pickering ,  Charles Carter   Tiffany Kary in New York
at +1-718-875-1459 or  tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 