-- Yen Rises on Growth Concern as ECB Disappoints
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   E l e a n o r   L a w r i e
-- 2012-08-03T11:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/dollar-set-for-weekly-gains-versus-most-majors-on-growth-concern.html
The dollar fell before a government
report that economists said will show the pace of U.S. hiring
failed to bring the jobless rate below 8 percent, a level it has
held above for more than three years.  The U.S. currency weakened against 12 of its 16 major
counterparts as gains in European stocks damped demand for the
safest assets. The euro strengthened for the first time in three
days against the dollar after retail sales in the 17-nation
region unexpectedly increased in June.  New Zealand ’s dollar
gained after  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed the nation’s credit
rating and said the outlook was stable.  “In the past four months, the payrolls data has fallen
below expectations,” said  Simon Smith , chief economist at FXPro
Group Ltd. in  London . “There could also be a bit of
repositioning in the euro” after yesterday’s decline, he said.  The dollar weakened 0.8 percent to $1.2280 per euro as of
7:27 a.m. in  New York , paring this week’s gain to 0.3 percent.
The U.S. currency was little changed at 78.26 yen. The euro
gained 0.9 percent to 96.12 yen after falling to 94.12 yen on
July 24, the lowest level since November 2000.  U.S. employers hired 100,000 workers last month after
adding 80,000 in June, according to economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The jobless rate held at 8.2 percent for a third
month, a separate survey showed. The reading has been higher
than 8 percent since February 2009.  The  Federal Reserve  refrained from boosting monetary
stimulus at a two-day meeting that ended on Aug. 1, while
indicating that a sluggish economy may prompt further steps to
encourage growth.  QE3 Possible  The dollar will fall against the yen “if the U.S. jobs
data turn out weak,” said Kumiko Gervaise, an analyst at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo . “The market will
start pricing in the possibility of QE3 from the Fed in
September,” she said, referring to a third round of asset
purchases known as quantitative easing.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, dropped 0.6 percent to 82.80. The Stoxx Europe
600 Index of shares gained 1.6 percent.  The euro appreciated versus the dollar and the yen after
the European Union’s statistics office said retail sales gained
0.1 from May, when they rose 0.8 percent. Economists forecast a
decline of 0.1 percent, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The 17-nation currency tumbled yesterday after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to convince investors
that policy makers were doing enough to contain the debt crisis.  ‘Initial Disappointment’  Today’s move is “a reflection that investors are starting
to shrug off some of the initial disappointment following
yesterday’s ECB meeting,” said  Lee Hardman , a currency
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London. “We
remain skeptical it will prove a sustainable solution.”  The euro has fallen 4.4 percent in the past six months, the
worst performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen gained 0.8
percent and the dollar strengthened 3.3 percent.  The euro may extend gains versus the dollar as investors
reconsider Draghi’s statements yesterday, according to Morten Helt, a senior analyst at Danske Bank A/S in Brondby,  Denmark .  “Draghi was fairly clear that the ECB could, and most
likely would, reactivate its bond purchases in the secondary
market if one or several countries ask the EFSF to buy its
 government bonds ,” Helt wrote in a note to clients, referring
to the region’s bailout fund known as the European Financial
Stability Facility.  “It appears more likely that this will happen than not in
our view” he said. “A strong and coordinated policy response
will push the euro higher. The market is not yet fully priced
for this.”  Kiwi Gains  New Zealand’s dollar rose for a second day versus the
greenback after S&P affirmed the nation’s credit rating, citing
its fiscal flexibility, resilient economy and policy
institutions conducive to swift and decisive policy reform.  “The kiwi was slightly supported after S&P affirmed New
Zealand’s rating,” said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at
Forecast Pte in  Singapore . “I still think the risk is to the
downside. The kiwi will still be affected by concerns over the
global economy.”  New Zealand’s currency climbed 0.6 percent to 81.47 U.S.
cents, and gained 0.6 percent to 63.76 yen.  The Dollar Index may extend this week’s advance after a
“bullish breakout” yesterday above a level of so-called
resistance at 83.01, according to Royal Bank of Canada, citing
trading patterns.  The advance is “underpinning topside momentum,”  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency
strategy in Toronto at the bank’s  RBC Dominion Securities  unit,
wrote in a research note yesterday. He cited 83.63 as the next
level of resistance.  Resistance refers an area on a chart where technical
analysts anticipate sell orders to be clustered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Eleanor Lawrie in London at 
 elawrie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  