-- Gabby Douglas Vaults From Olympics to Gold-Medal Sales Career
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-03T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/douglas-wins-gymnastics-final-getting-second-gold-of-olympics.html
Gabby Douglas won her second
gymnastics gold medal, an American first, and is poised to reap
a sponsorship windfall after the London Olympics.  By adding the all-around title yesterday to the team crown
she helped the U.S. win two days earlier, the 16-year-old from
 Virginia Beach ,  Virginia , became the first American woman to win
both golds at a single Olympics.  Douglas -- nicknamed the “Flying Squirrel” -- would be a
great saleswoman for everything from toothpaste to cosmetics to
airline tickets, said Bob Dorfman, executive creative director
at San Francisco-based Baker Street Advertising.  “All-around gold means serious green for Douglas, in the
neighborhood of at least one to three million dollars a year,”
Dorfman said in an e-mail interview. “The U.S. gymnastics
darling always seems to be the girl who comes out with the
greatest endorsement success after the games.”  Douglas beat Victoria Komova of Russia to win the title at
the North Greenwich Arena.  Russia ’s Aliya Mustafina won the
bronze medal in a tiebreaker over Aly Raisman of the U.S. after
they finished with the same score.  Douglas’s win marked the third straight all-around title
for a U.S. woman at the Olympics following Nastia Liukin in 2008
and Carly Patterson in 2004. Mary Lou Retton is the only other
American woman to win the all-around, at the 1984 Los Angeles
Games.  ‘Success Story’  “It really is that great American success story,” Peter Shankman, founder of the Geek Factory marketing firm in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “As soon as she won, she
put her hand on her heart. How can that photo not be on the back
page of every paper in America?”  Douglas, who also won the U.S. Olympic trials all-around
title, led the competition from her vault in the first round.
The crowd drowned out the announcer’s voice as she was welcomed
to the floor for the final routine that would seal the
American’s second gold medal.  “A lot was going through my mind, I was like, ’Yes all the
hard work has paid off,’” Douglas told reporters after the
medal ceremony. “I was speechless. Tears of joy and just waving
to the crowd.”  The Americans won the team event for the first time since
the 1996 Atlanta Games earlier this week, led by Raisman, the
squad’s captain, who performed the final floor exercise that
sealed gold for the U.S.  U.S. First  Never before had U.S. women gymnasts won the team and all-
around competitions at the same Olympics. That may change now,
according to Douglas.  “I think we can go on for a very long time,” she told
reporters. “Team USA and  United States of America  are very
strong, we have some very good gymnasts, so it’s going to
continue.”  Douglas and her Olympic teammates will make a base salary
of more than $100,000 each for participating in the 40-city
Kellogg’s Tour of Gymnastics Champions that begins Sept. 8 in
 San Jose ,  California , and ends Nov. 18 in  Brooklyn , New York.  Steve Penny, the president of USA Gymnastics, said before
the Olympics that gymnasts who won team or individual medals at
the London Games could earn as much as $500,000 each on the
tour.  American Flags  The 4-foot-11 (1.50-meter) Douglas beamed as she completed
each dismount, routine and flourish during the final. American
flags outnumbered the host nation’s  Union Jack  among the crowd
in Greenwich.  “Her fresh face is perfect for a cosmetics deal, her
infectious smile could sell toothpaste, and her nickname -- The
Flying Squirrel -- is ideal for any airline,” Dorfman said.
“Ka-ching. That’s the sound of America’s newest gymnastics
darling being born.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  