-- Draghi Says ECB May Start Outright Open-Market Operations
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k ,   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-02T13:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/draghi-says-ecb-may-start-outright-open-market-operations-2-.html
European Central Bank President Mario
Draghi comments on monetary policy and the region’s debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after the ECB kept interest rates unchanged.  On the future of the euro:  “The euro is irreversible.”  “It’s pointless to bet against the euro. It’s pointless to
go short on the euro. It’s pointless because the euro will
stay.”  On the ECB’s focus on the short end of the yield curve:  “Why do we focus on the short end of the yield curve? The
main reason is that this falls squarely in the list of classical
monetary policy instruments.”  On the Bundesbank stance on ECB bond purchases:  “It is clear and it is known that Mr. Weidmann and the
Bundesbank have their reservations about programs that buy
bonds.”  On sterilization of ECB bond purchases:  “You shouldn’t assume that we will not sterilize or
sterilize.”  On the possibility of an interest-rate cut:  “We have discussed possible reductions in  interest rates ,
but the Governing Council in its entirety decided this was not
the time, and that’s it.”  On ECB response to the crisis:  “We want to repair monetary-policy transmission
channels.”  “The ECB remains the guardian of price stability.”  “Going beyond our mandate? No.”  “It is within our mandate to do whatever is in our power
to preserve the euro as a stable currency.”  “The voting was unanimous with one reservation.”  “It was not a decision, but a determined guidance for the
committees to design the appropriate modalities for such policy
measures.”  “There wasn’t any specific instance that led us to have
the discussion we had today, just a sense of worsening of the
crisis.”  The “sudden increase in the shorter part of the curve in
some euro-area countries” was a sign of market fragmentation in
the last month.  “What we have expressed now is a guidance, a strong
guidance, that will be completed in their details in the coming
weeks.”  “The endorsement to do whatever it takes to preserve the
euro as a stable currency has been unanimous.”  “The ECB cannot replace governments.”  “To go to the EFSF is a necessary condition, but it’s not
a sufficient condition.”  “Many of the details will be worked out by the relevant
committees within the ECB” in the weeks ahead.  “The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfilment by the EFSF/ESM of their role are necessary
conditions. The Governing Council, within its mandate to
maintain  price stability  over the medium term and in observance
of its independence in determining monetary policy, may
undertake outright open market operations of a size adequate to
reach its objective. In this context, the concerns of private
investors about seniority will be addressed. Furthermore, the
Governing Council may consider undertaking further non-standard
monetary policy measures according to what is required to repair
monetary policy transmission. Over the coming weeks, we will
design the appropriate modalities for such policy measures.”  On the euro area’s temporary bailout fund, the European
Financial Stability Facility:  “Governments must stand ready to activate the EFSF in bond
markets.”  “There is not yet one country that has asked the EFSF to
intervene.”  On the euro-area economy:  “On a quarterly basis, euro-area real GDP growth was flat
in the first quarter of 2012, following a decline of 0.3 percent
in the previous quarter. Economic indicators point to weak
economic activity in the second quarter of 2012 and at the
beginning of the third quarter, in an environment of heightened
uncertainty. Looking beyond the short term, we expect the euro
area economy to recover only very gradually, with growth
momentum being further dampened by a number of factors. In
particular, tensions in some euro area sovereign debt markets
and their impact on financing conditions, the process of balance
sheet adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors and
high unemployment are expected to weigh on the underlying growth
momentum, which is also affected by the ongoing global slowdown.  “The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside. They relate, in particular,
to the tensions in several euro area financial markets and their
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. Downside
risks also relate to possible renewed increases in energy prices
over the medium term.  “Euro-area annual HICP inflation was 2.4 percent in July
2012, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from the
previous month. On the basis of current futures prices for oil,
inflation rates should decline further in the course of 2012 and
be below 2 percent again in 2013. Over the policy-relevant
horizon, in an environment of modest growth in the euro area and
well anchored long-term inflation expectations, underlying price
pressures should remain moderate.  “Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to
be broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain
to further increases in indirect taxes, owing to the need for
fiscal consolidation, and higher than expected energy prices
over the medium term. The main downside risks relate to the
impact of weaker than expected growth in the euro area, in
particular resulting from a further intensification of financial
market tensions. Such intensification has the potential to
affect the balance of risks on the downside.”  On what governments must do:  “While significant progress has been achieved with fiscal
consolidation over recent years, further decisive and urgent
steps need to be taken to improve competitiveness. From 2009 to
2011, euro-area countries, on average, reduced the deficit-to-
GDP ratio by 2.3 percentage points, and the primary deficit
improved by about 2 1/2 percentage points. Fiscal adjustment in
the euro area is continuing in 2012, and it is indeed crucial
that efforts are maintained to restore sound fiscal positions.
At the same time, structural reforms are as essential as fiscal
consolidation efforts and the measures to repair the financial
sector. Some progress has also been made in this area. For
example, unit labour costs and current account developments have
started to undergo a correction process in most of the countries
strongly affected by the crisis. However, further reform
measures need to be implemented swiftly and decisively. Product
market reforms to foster competitiveness and the creation of
efficient and flexible labour markets are preconditions for the
unwinding of existing imbalances and the achievement of robust,
sustainable growth. It is now crucial that  member states 
implement their country-specific recommendations with
determination.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net 
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  