-- Drug War Lures Mexico Firms to Jails as Foreign Rivals Stay Away
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-08-02T06:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/drug-war-lures-mexico-firms-to-jails-as-foreign-rivals-stay-away.html
Two Mexican homebuilding companies
are embracing the government’s turn to private enterprises to
help run violence-plagued prisons that has been shunned by
international jail-management firms.  The country will open its first private prisons this year
as the U.S.-backed war against drug gangs fills cells past
capacity. In Central America, where a fire at an overcrowded
Honduras jail killed 366 inmates in February, business groups
are also pushing governments to build and run facilities.  It’s an opportunity that global prison operators such as
 G4S Plc (GFS)  and Corrections Corp. of America are passing up in the
face of the disorder and corruption that plagues Latin American
jails. That’s left untested firms like Mexican builders
 Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  and  Empresas ICA SAB (ICA*)  with the task of
bringing order to facilities the  United Nations  says lack basic
sanitation and are plagued by “alarming” levels of violence.  “It’s hard to say that things could get worse because the
jails are so bad,” said Mark Ungar, a professor at the  City
University  of New York in  Brooklyn  who studies Latin American
prisons. “But I can’t imagine many international companies
wanting to jump into this.”  Outgoing Mexican President  Felipe Calderon ’s administration
has said farming out prison construction to private companies
would cut costs for such projects by 29 percent and the new
jails would increase capacity for inmates by as much as 30
percent. Enrique Pena Nieto, who will succeed him in December,
says he also supports private investment to expand facilities
that hold 22 percent more inmates than the 180,000 they were
designed to accommodate, according to a May 2011 government
report.  Honduras Blaze  Improving security at penitentiaries took on renewed
urgency following the Feb. 14 blaze in Honduras, the world’s
deadliest prison fire in a century. Less than a week later, 37
inmates conspired with guards to sneak out of a Mexican jail by
provoking one of the nation’s bloodiest prison riots, in which
44 died.  Calderon has said that a dozen new prisons under
construction, some of them private, will be completed before his
term ends, helping to relieve overcrowding in 429 federal and
state facilities.  While Calderon’s drug crackdown has led to a surge in
killings -- more than 47,500 since he took office in 2006 --
Latin America’s second biggest economy has proven resilient in
the face of the worsening violence. Gross domestic product grew
4.6 percent in the first three months of 2012 from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in six quarters and compared with
Brazil’s 0.8 percent expansion.  Criminal Hotbed  Crowded jails that serve as a hotbed for criminal activity
have hampered the drug fight in  Mexico  and Central America. Only
$24 million of a $1.6 billion U.S. anti-narcotics aid package
for the region is devoted to equipment and training for the
prison system. With resources already stretched, private
investors are being asked to fill the void.  Culiacan-based Homex, Mexico’s biggest homebuilder by
sales, said July 25 it will buy out a partner in its prison
projects for 1.1 billion pesos ($80 million) after second-
quarter home sales tumbled. The company plans to build two
correctional facilities this year and manage services such as
food, laundry and building maintenance, the company said on
conference calls with investors.  “I’m confident there will be more” to build, said Homex’s
Chief Executive Officer Gerardo de Nicolas Gutierrez in an
interview in New York on March 8. “The prison population will
grow as the judicial system is improved.”  Revenue Contribution  Mexico City-based ICA, Mexico’s largest construction
company, said in a July 27 earnings report that two prison
projects due for completion before October were its single-
largest contributor to second quarter revenue.  The penitentiary projects have the potential to produce a
35 percent profit margin for companies thanks to the
government’s annual payment for services of 1 billion pesos per
prison,  Carlos Hermosillo , a Mexico City-based analyst with
Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, said in a phone interview. In
return, the government gains immediate access to capital to
build prisons faster than if it had to seek budget approval from
congress, he said.  This year, shares of Homex have fallen 31 percent to 27
pesos, while ICA has risen 34 percent to 23 pesos per share.  Natural Fit  While companies that build and operate resorts and toll
roads may consider it a natural fit to turn to prison
construction, their lack of experience running such facilities
could prove detrimental to their bottom line, said Ramon Ortiz,
an analyst with Mexico City-based brokerage Corp. Actinver SAB.  “They face a very steep learning curve,” Ortiz said.  Press officials at both ICA and Homex didn’t return e-mails
requesting comment.  While Mexico’s government will remain in charge of guarding
the prisons, that’s not enough to inspire confidence for London-
based G4S, which runs nine jails in the U.K., Australia and
South Africa.  “The level of influence of some of the criminal gangs is
extreme,” Fiona Walters, a G4S Americas spokeswoman, said in a
phone interview from Jupiter, Florida. “To be able to run a
safe and secure prison also speaks to broader issues and some of
the challenges you’ve got with the cartels in some of those
countries.”  G4S’s shares have dropped 7.7 percent to 250 pounds this
year.  Drug Lord  Mexico’s prisons are legendary for their lawlessness.
Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, the nation’s most-wanted drug lord,
bribed guards so he could continue his extravagant lifestyle
behind bars, including parties with prostitutes. He escaped in
2001 from his maximum security jail in a laundry bin.  Nashville-based  Corrections Corp. (CXW)  of America, the largest
U.S. prison contractor, as well as its competitors Boca Raton-
based  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  and closely held Management & Training
Corp., based in Centerville, Utah, have no plans to pursue
business in Mexico or Central America, spokesmen for each
company told Bloomberg.  This year, Corrections Corp. has risen 49 percent to $30
per share and Geo Group has climbed 39 percent to $23.  Investing outside of safer, developed markets would “pose
a lot of risks for the G4S’s of this world,” said Alex Magni,
an equity analyst at  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Investors ‘Nervous’  “Investors would probably get quite nervous since there’s
a world of opportunity where they don’t have to take that sort
of risk,” Magni said in an interview from London.  In the U.S., which has the world’s highest incarceration
rate, about 16 percent of federal prisoners and 7 percent of
state prisoners are held in private jails, the  Department of
Justice  said in a December report.  More recently, sentiment has turned against private prisons
as cash-strapped state governments in the U.S. question whether
handing inmates over to private facilities generates the cost-
savings touted by the industry.  In April,  California  said it would reclaim almost 10,000
inmates held at private facilities. Shares in Corrections Corp
tumbled 8.9 percent, their biggest drop in 11 months, the day
after the plan was announced by Governor  Jerry Brown . In
February, Florida’s Senate blocked a plan to create the largest
private-prison system in the U.S.  Rights Groups  In Mexico, some  human rights  groups have complained that
the government is shirking its responsibility to clean up jails
by turning to private companies.  “It’s a way to wash their hands and blame someone else for
human rights violations that can take place at these jails,”
Jose Luis Gutierrez, director of Mexico City-based Legal
Assistance for Human Rights, said in a phone interview.  The Public Security Ministry, which oversees Mexico’s
prisons, did not return calls seeking comment.  Central America may also follow Mexico’s lead in turning
its prisons over to private hands. Business groups in Honduras
and El Salvador, whose prisons are the most overcrowded in the
region, have each lobbied their governments to open the prison
system to investment.  Both countries are major transit zones for U.S.-bound
cocaine from  South America , and have seen incarceration rates
surge over the past decade.  While Chile and Brazil have succeeded in turning over some
basic prison services such as building maintenance to private
companies, Central American prisons racked by violent gangs are
easily corrupted and nearly impossible to manage, said Ungar,
who has advised the  Inter-American Development Bank .  “Governments have abdicated their responsibility in
managing prisons,” Jose Miguel Vivanco, the Americas director
for Washington-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a phone
interview from Washington. “Internally, these prisons are run
by the prisoners themselves.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Sabo in Washington at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  