-- Drummond Slows Output at Colombian Coal Mines, Union Says
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-08-02T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/drummond-slows-output-at-colombian-coal-mines-union-says-1-.html
Drummond Co. has slowed production at
its coal mines in  Colombia  after a strike halted a railway used
to carry the fuel to port, a union leader said.  Closely held Drummond, based in Birmingham,  Alabama , has
reduced workers’ shifts to 8 hours from 12 hours at its El
Descanso and Pribbenow mines in northern Colombia, Ever Causado,
a union leader at a workers’ group known as Sintramienergetica,
said today in a phone interview.  Railway workers and a separate union at a mine owned by
Glencore International Plc walked off the job last month to
demand higher wages as production climbs in Colombia,  South
America ’s largest coal supplier. Workers at the railway, called
Ferrocarriles del Norte de Colombia SA, will meet for
negotiations today with management and government officials,
union leader Sergio Becerra said in an interview. The strike
began July 23.  The trains carry Drummond’s coal to a port on the Caribbean
coast of northern Colombia, where the company produced about 25
million tons of the fuel last year, according to its website.  If prolonged, the strike may be “a positive” for thermal
coal prices, Serene Lim, an analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in
 Singapore , said yesterday in a note. The railway also carries
coal from mines owned by units of Glencore and  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , which along with Drummond hold stakes in the railway
company.  Workers at  Glencore’s (GLEN)  Prodeco Group have no negotiations
scheduled at the La Jagua coal mine in northern Colombia,
Becerra said. A walkout at the mine began on July 19. La Jagua
and the nearby Calenturitas mine produce 14.5 million metric
tons of coal annually, according to Glencore’s website.  Output in Colombia will rise to as much as 100 million tons
this year from almost 86 million tons last year, according to a
forecast by the National Federation of Coal Producers. Colombia
primarily produces thermal coal used by utilities and exports
metallurgical coal used for steel production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  