-- Ducth Seize 1,000 Kilograms of Antibiotics for Feed Use
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-02T16:00:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ducth-seize-1-000-kilograms-of-antibiotics-for-feed-use.html
Dutch authorities seized 1,000
kilograms (2,205 pounds) of illegal antibiotics that may have
been meant for use as a growth promoter in  animal feed , the
Netherlands’ food safety authority reported.  The cargo of virginiamycin, an antibiotic that has been
banned for feed use by the European Union, was found during a
search of a transhipment company in the southern Netherlands,
the authority said in an online  statement  today.  The EU’s ban on antibiotics as growth promoters in farm
animals has reduced productivity for livestock breeders in the
27-nation bloc by about 5 percent compared with the rest of the
world, according to the World Organisation for  Animal Health , or
OIE.  “A first review shows the illegal goods were possibly
destined to be processed as growth promoters in animal feeds,”
the food-safety authority wrote. “It can’t be ruled out that
previously illegal antibiotics were imported and processed via
this route. The legal inquiry will have to determine this.”  The EU banned the use of virginiamycin in feed because it
can result in antibiotic resistance of bacteria, the food-safety
authority wrote. The drug is allowed in some countries outside
the EU, meaning transhipment through the bloc is possible on the
conditions authorities are notified, it said.  “These illegal antibiotics came to light after indications
from Belgian authorities that possibly a large shipment of
illegal goods would be sold in the Netherlands,” the safety
authority said.  Livestock and poultry farmers across the world should
reduce the preventive use of antibiotics and avoid feeding them
as growth promoters to combat rising resistance of bacteria to
the medicines, the OIE said in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  