-- Duke Energy Profit Rises on Higher Customer Rates
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-08-02T14:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/duke-energy-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-higher-customer-rates.html
Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s integration
challenges for its $17.8 billion purchase of Progress Energy
Inc. were underscored by a 70 percent decline in the smaller
utility company’s second-quarter earnings.  Higher costs for refueling its nuclear plants drained
Progress’s profit in its last quarter as an independent company.
Duke reported net income rose 2.1 percent, and said it remains
on track to meet a prior profit forecast of $4.20 to $4.35 a
share for the combined company this year.  “The Duke results look solid, the Progress results didn’t
look very good,”  Andrew Smith , a St. Louis-based analyst for
Edward Jones & Co. who rates Duke hold and owns none, said today
in an interview. “The biggest challenge for Duke is going to be
delivering results, keeping rates low, keeping customers happy
and delivering to the North Carolina Utilities Commission what
they said they would.”  Net income for Duke was $444 million, or 99 cents a share,
compared with $435 million, or 98 cents, a year earlier,
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke said in a statement today.
Progress said net income fell to $63 million, or 21 cents a
share, from $176 million, or 60 cents, according to a separate
statement.  Duke’s acquisition of Raleigh, North Carolina-based
Progress closed on July 2, creating the largest U.S. utility
owner by market value. The company announced the next morning
that it replaced Progress Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson 
with Duke CEO  James Rogers , who was supposed to become executive
chairman of the combined companies. The change triggered
investigations by North Carolina regulators and the state’s
attorney general.  ‘Buyer’s Remorse’  Contradicting Johnson’s testimony to regulators last month,
Rogers said he didn’t tell Wall Street analysts the company
would be better off if its acquisition of Progress Energy Inc.
failed, and said he didn’t have “buyer’s remorse.”  “There was a period after the second rejection by the
 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  where analysts were raising
the question of, ‘Well, what if this deal doesn’t go through?’”
said James Rogers, who became CEO of the combined companies in
an unexpected switch hours after the merger closed. “I was
clear with them, whether the deal goes through or not, Duke
would be in a strong position to produce returns for our
investors.”  Crystal River  The acquisition included Progress’s Crystal River nuclear
reactor in  Florida , which Rogers said may cost more to fix than
previously estimated.  “It’s our judgment that $900 million to $1.3 billion,
based on our analysis, is trending up, but we have more work to
do,” Rogers said.  Excluding merger-related costs and other one-time charges,
Duke’s per-share profit was 5 cents more than the 97-cent
average of 13 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 1.2 percent to $3.58 billion.  Higher rates in  North Carolina  and South Carolina added 14
cents a share, making up for a drop in demand. Milder
temperatures in those states crimped earnings by 5 cents-a-
share, as weather-driven demand for cooling fell 9 percent from
a year earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Weather was hotter than a year earlier in  Ohio ,  Indiana ,
and  Kentucky , where Duke sells power to 1.6 million homes and
businesses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
had 4 million power customers before the acquisition. It now has
about 7.1 million, according to its website.  Duke fell 0.8 percent to $67.00 at 10:38 a.m. in New York.
The shares have three buy, one sell and 17 hold  ratings  from
analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  