-- The Bad History Behind ‘You Didn’t Build That’
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-08-02T23:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/the-bad-history-behind-you-didn-t-build-that-.html
The controversy surrounding President
 Barack Obama ’s  admonishment  that “if you’ve got a business --
you didn’t build that. Somebody else made that happen” has
defied the usual election-year pattern.  Normally a political faux pas lasts little more than a news
cycle. People hear the story, decide what they think, and
quickly move on to the next brouhaha, following what the
journalist Mickey Kaus calls the  Feiler Faster Thesis . A gaffe
that might have ruined a candidate 20 years ago is now forgotten
within days.  Three weeks later, Obama’s comment is still a big deal.  Although his supporters pooh-pooh the controversy, claiming
the statement has been taken out of context and that he was
referring only to public infrastructure, the full video isn’t
reassuring. Whatever the meaning of “that” was, the president
on the whole was clearly trying to take business owners down a
peg. He was dissing their accomplishments. As my Bloomberg View
colleague Josh Barro has  written , “You don’t have to make over
$250,000 a year to be annoyed when the president mocks people
for taking credit for their achievements.”  Hectoring Entrepreneurs  The president’s sermon struck a nerve in part because it
marked a sharp departure from the traditional Democratic
criticism of financiers and big corporations, instead hectoring
the people who own dry cleaners and nail salons, car repair
shops and restaurants -- Main Street, not  Wall Street . (Obama
did work in a swipe at Internet businesses.) The president
didn’t simply argue for higher taxes as a measure of fiscal
responsibility or egalitarian fairness. He went after bourgeois
dignity.  “Bourgeois Dignity”  is both the title of a recent book by
the economic historian  Deirdre N. McCloskey  and, she argues, the
attitude that accounts for the biggest story in economic
history: the explosion of growth that took northern Europeans
and eventually the world from living on about $3 a day, give or
take a dollar or two (in today’s buying power), to the current
global average of $30 -- and much higher in developed nations.
(McCloskey’s touchstone is  Norway ’s $137 a day, second only to
tiny Luxembourg’s.)  That change, she argues, is way too big to be explained by
normal economic behavior, however rational, disciplined or
efficient. Hence the book’s subtitle: “Why Economics Can’t
Explain the Modern World.”  “Economics of a material sort can surely explain why
Americans burned wood and charcoal many decades longer than did
the forest-poor and coal-rich people of inner northwestern
Europe. It can explain why education was a bad investment for a
British parlor maid in 1840, or why the  United States  rather
than  Egypt  supplied most of the raw cotton to Manchester,
 England ,” writes McCloskey, a professor of economics, history,
English and communication at the University of Illinois-Chicago,
and of economic history at  Gothenburg University  in  Sweden . But
the usual stories of utility maximization and optimal pricing
“can’t explain the rise in the whole world’s (absolute)
advantage from $3 to $30 a day, not to speak of $137 a day.”  Something bigger was at work. McCloskey’s explanation is
that people changed the way they thought, wrote and spoke about
economic activity. “In the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries,” she writes, “a great shift occurred in what Alexis
de Tocqueville called ‘habits of the mind’ -- or more exactly,
habits of the lip. People stopped sneering at market
innovativeness and other bourgeois virtues.” As attitudes
changed, so did behavior, leading to more than two centuries of
constant innovation and rising  living standards .  Overemphasizing Capital  Most of “Bourgeois Dignity” is devoted to knocking down
alternative explanations for the sudden and enormous escalation
in living standards. In particular, McCloskey draws on the last
half-century of economic-history scholarship to debunk what most
people outside the field assume was the critical ingredient:
savings and wealth accumulation. We might call this explanation
“capital-ism.” Whether derived from  Karl Marx , Max Weber, Karl
Polyani, or, in a more-recent incarnation, Fernand Braudel, she
argues, the emphasis on capital simply gets the facts wrong. It
is empirically false.  First of all, savings were high centuries before the
economy took off. Given medieval crop yields, just preserving
enough grain to plant next year’s crop implied a savings rate of
at least 12 percent, compared with no more than 10 percent to 20
percent in modern industrial economies. And, contrary to Weber’s
story about a new Protestant Ethic, savings rates were roughly
the same in Catholic and Protestant countries or, for that
matter, in  China .  “Something besides thrifty self-discipline or violent
expropriation must have been at work in northwestern  Europe  and
its offshoots in the eighteenth century and later,” she writes.
“Self-discipline and expropriation have been too common in
human history to explain a revolution gathering force in Europe
around 1800.”  Besides, as economic historians discovered in the 1960s,
the economic takeoff didn’t actually require large amounts of
capital. Early cotton mills, for instance, were relatively cheap
to set up. “The source of the industrial investment required
was short-term loans from merchants for inventories and longer-
term loans from relatives -- not savings ripped in great chunks
from other parts of the economy,” McCloskey writes. “Such
chunk-ripping ‘capitalism’ awaited the Railway Age.”  There had always been enough capital. What was different,
she maintains, is how people thought about new ideas. Creative
destruction became not only accepted but also encouraged, as did
individual enterprise. “What made us rich,” she writes, “was
a new rhetoric that was favorable to unbounded innovation,
imagination, alertness, persuasion, originality, with individual
rewards often paid in a coin of honor or thankfulness -- not
individual accumulation restlessly stirring, or mere duty to a
calling, which are ancient and routine and uncreative.”  Radical Claim  This is a radical claim, and one that McCloskey, having
dispatched the alternatives, plans to demonstrate further in her
next book, “The Treasured Bourgeoisie.” The idea will sound
particularly strange if you learned your economic history, as
many political intellectuals do, in a diluted version of Marx
and Polanyi (on the left) or Weber (on the right) and thus
assume that economic growth depends, first and foremost, on some
accumulated store of wealth. You might be inclined, therefore,
to sneer at innovation -- or even, as Daniel Bell did, to write
a  book  condemning it as a “cultural contradiction” of
capitalism -- and at bourgeois virtue. If you think that
capital, not insight or innovation, is the critical ingredient,
it’s also a short hop to the belief that the entrepreneur
doesn’t deserve praise for building the business.  McCloskey’s book is not only a useful survey of how
scholars answer the biggest question in economics: What causes
growth? It is also a timely reminder that prosperity depends on
more than effort or resources or infrastructure or good laws.
Attitudes matter, too. You don’t build a wealthy society by
deriding bourgeois enterprise -- or the people who take pride in
it.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Richard Cohen on
the changing of the guard in  Olympic fencing ; Mohamed El-Erian
on why  central bankers  can’t save the world; Handel Reynolds on
 cancers we don’t need to know about ; Anthony B. Sanders on why
Edward DeMarco was right to  block mortgage writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 