-- Tea Party Momentum Steams Ahead With Texas Senate Upset
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/tea-party-momentum-steams-ahead-with-texas-senate-upset.html
The Tea Party has no leader, no
hierarchy and no national fundraising network, yet the insurgent
political movement born of frustration at  government spending 
has bolstered its clout -- and its potential for aggravation --
in the  Republican Party  with the nomination of U.S. Senate
candidate and political newcomer  Ted Cruz  in Texas.  Emboldened by Cruz’s July 31 victory over Texas Lieutenant
Governor David Dewhurst in a primary runoff to replace retiring
U.S. Senator  Kay Bailey Hutchison , Tea Party supporters say
their voice is stronger and the movement is better prepared to
influence party policy.  “If Mitt Romney is the president, you know he may be with
us 65 percent of the time, maybe 75 percent of the time, but
probably not more than that,” said Brendan Steinhauser,
director of federal and state campaigns for the Tea Party-
aligned FreedomWorks PAC, based in Washington.  “We understand we’re going to need to hold him accountable
as well, and the only way you do that is getting the Tea Party
conservatives in the Senate,” Steinhauser said.  With his 57 percent to 43 percent victory, Cruz is poised
to win election in November. No Democrat has won a statewide
Texas vote since 1994. Within the Republican Party, Cruz’s
nomination is seen by the Tea Party as a repudiation of the
party’s old guard leadership.  Shaking Establishment  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican and co-
founder of the Senate’s Tea Party Caucus, said Cruz’s victory
was “a pretty clear case of establishment Republicans versus a
constitutional conservative who really wanted to shake things
up.”  DeMint supported 2010 Senate newcomers Marco Rubio of
Florida, Kentucky’s Rand Paul, Pennsylvania’s  Pat Toomey  and
Utah’s  Mike Lee  in winning contests against more established
members of their party.  Paul said Cruz’s win was “a huge upset but also a huge
victory for the grassroots and the Tea Party.” Paul captured
his own seat two years ago after waging an insurgent primary
campaign against Kentucky Secretary of State Trey Grayson, who
had the backing of many of the state’s prominent Republicans,
including Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .  Cruz’s win, coupled with Indiana Treasurer  Richard Mourdock ’s besting six-term incumbent  Richard Lugar  in May, has
generated questions about fractures within the party.  Republican Spending  “I do think that the Tea Party movement will continue to
keep the pressure on all Republicans and all officials to get
the  spending  under control,” said Robert Bennett, chairman of
the Ohio Republican Party.  Bennett said the “game has changed” in the party’s
politics, and some of it is payback for the actions of longtime
Republican officeholders.  “When the Republicans had control of government, there was
a failure to control spending and a failure to address some of
the problems. It was Republican spending, and that was a
disappointment to a lot of party members,” Bennett said,
referring to the party’s control of Congress during the
presidency of  George W. Bush .  “You had chairmen who were loyal to the incumbents and
that created a problem for some who thought some incumbents
weren’t adhering to conservative principles,” such as reducing
the  deficit  by trimming spending, he added.  Toeing the conservative line can go too far, said former
U.S. Senator  George Voinovich  of Ohio. He is concerned about the
Tea Party “not being willing to compromise” on government
entitlement spending, long-term debt, deficits and reforming the
 tax code .  Murky Future  “I think all of us are really worried about where will we
go next year?” Voinovich said in a telephone interview.  Making no-tax-increase pledges, such as those advocated by
activist  Grover Norquist , president of Americans for Tax Reform,
is not helpful, Voinovich said, adding that Norquist “should go
jump in the lake.”  Bennett and others dismissed the prospects of Republicans
not being united in their opposition to Democratic President
 Barack Obama . The issue is what happens next inside their own
caucus.  “The problem down the road for the Republicans is if and
when the Republicans win the White House,” said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor and publisher of The Rothenberg Political
Report.  Internal Divisions  “Then the divisions that exist in the party that, right
now, are papered over by Republican focus on Obama and the
Democrats and the Democratic agenda, that’s when the internal
Republican divisions will start to become more important. That’s
when the division will really start to matter,” he said.  For all of the David-versus-Goliath political talk, the big
money in the race tilted toward Cruz. Outside groups spent $14.6
million on the Texas Republican Senate primary and runoff, more
than on any other Senate race this year, according to
opensecrets.org, which tracks campaign spending. Most of that
went to support Cruz,  The Club for Growth political action committee spent $5.6
million on ads attacking Dewhurst. The Senate Conservatives Fund
said on its website it had spent $2 million on Cruz’s behalf.
Dewhurst got $5.6 million from the Texas Conservatives Fund, and
loaned his campaign $19.2 million of his own fortune.  “The spending dwarfs anything we have seen in Texas in
modern political history,” said  Mark Jones , who heads the
political science department at Rice University in Houston.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  