-- ECB-Politicians’ Anti-Crisis Bargain Starts to Emerge
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-08-03T08:05:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ecb-politicians-anti-crisis-bargain-emerges-after-2-1-2-years.html
After 2 1/2 years of incremental
 crisis management  and false starts, a bargain is beginning to
emerge between  Europe ’s politicians and central bankers over how
to calm bond markets and end the debt tumult that threatens the
euro’s survival.  The  European Central Bank  sketched out its side of the deal
yesterday, offering to buy Italy’s and  Spain ’s bonds on the
market as long as the euro governments’ bailout fund makes
purchases directly from the two countries’ treasuries and ties
them to tough conditions.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  offered only a glimpse of the
new strategy, with the actual interventions weeks or months away
and a host of obstacles standing in the way before Europe can
claim to be on a path out of the crisis that emerged in  Greece 
in late 2009. Investors looking for a quicker fix pushed down
the euro,  European stocks  and bonds of at-risk countries.  “All of the announcements, if transferred into actual
activity, would be close to the big bazooka approach that the
markets are looking for,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in  London . “Market
disappointment is hardly surprising in this context but we may
well find this lays the groundwork for the grand plan in coming
weeks.”  Draghi’s ‘Guidance’  The euro jumped as high as $1.2405 on the initial ECB
announcement, falling back as Draghi’s caution that “it was not
a decision, it was guidance” sank in. The 17-nation currency
bought $1.2298 at 10:03 a.m. today Frankfurt time, up 0.3
percent.  The yield difference between 10-year Italian bonds and
similar-maturity German bunds narrowed seven basis points to 502
basis points, after jumping by 54 basis points. Spain’s yield
difference compared to bunds rose seven basis points to 600
basis points.  In the trading rooms, skeptics recalled the failure of
European authorities to deliver on prior crisis-fighting
pledges, whether by restricting the use of the original 440
billion-euro ($535 billion) rescue fund or forcing through a
restructuring of Greece’s debt after promising not to.  “The big bazooka is Draghi’s implied promises, which have
not been delivered upon,” said  Marc Ostwald , a strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “Markets are saying this is
all talk, there’s nothing concrete.”  What is different now is that the two countries with their
backs against the wall, Italy and Spain, represent 28 percent of
the $12 trillion economy and have new leaders that have forced
through deficit-slashing measures over mounting domestic
opposition.  Merkel, Hollande  “The ECB’s decision is important,” French President
 Francois Hollande  told reporters in Paris. “It allows the ECB
to intervene when it’s necessary.” German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who is on vacation, didn’t air any immediate qualms; on
July 27, she and Hollande made a joint pledge “to do everything
to safeguard” the euro.  Draghi’s offer to join forces with governments contrasted
with the maneuvering in August 2011 by his predecessor, Jean- Claude Trichet. With Europe’s rescue fund not yet empowered to
intervene on bond markets, Trichet ended up going solo in
starting the purchases of Italian and Spanish debt.  Italy’s then-government, led by  Silvio Berlusconi , chafed
at the ECB’s insistence on budget cuts, and the central bank had
no way of enforcing its writ. Opposition from the two Germans on
the ECB’s policy council limited the size of the bond purchases
and led to their suspension six months later.  Political Constellation  Draghi is operating in a different political constellation.
Berlusconi is gone, replaced by the non-partisan  Mario Monti ,
now in the midst of enacting 26 billion euros of spending cuts.
In Spain, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has delivered three
rounds of austerity since taking office last December.  Moreover, Europe’s political establishment has courted the
ECB by giving Draghi a lead role in fixing the birth defects of
the monetary union that go back to the 1991 Maastricht Treaty.
Along with European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy , European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  and Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker , the central banker is co-drafting proposals
for a closer fiscal union and more integrated banking system.  Neither the Italian nor Spanish leader took up the ECB’s
conditions yesterday. At a press conference in  Madrid  two hours
after Draghi’s announcement, Monti and Rajoy shrugged off
questions whether they would ask for a primary market bond-
purchasing program by the rescue funds.  “I don’t know if the Italian government will ask for
activation of this instrument,” Monti said. Rajoy declined to
answer the question.  Outside Monitoring  A bond-buying program would require Italy and Spain to make
austerity and economic-reform commitments -- or potentially only
restate the ones they’ve already made -- and submit to
international monitoring. Spain has already gotten over the
stigma of relying on outside help by tapping a 100 billion-euro
program to shore up its banks.  Draghi’s pledge took the ECB further away from its roots as
a politically autonomous central bank, modelled on Germany’s
Bundesbank, with prime responsibility for containing inflation
and only a lesser focus on the broader economy and the stability
of the banking system.  The Bundesbank’s leader, Jens Weidmann, was alone on the
ECB’s 23-member policy council in expressing “reservations,”
Draghi told the press. For now, Weidmann stayed silent,
contrasting with the objections to the ECB’s original bond-
purchasing program that were immediately voiced by his
predecessor,  Axel Weber , in May 2010.  Court Challenge  One reason Draghi had to buy time is that European
governments won’t be able to act until at least mid-September,
the earliest possible startup date for the planned 500 billion-
euro permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism. It
faces a German supreme court ruling on Sept. 12.  Until then, Europe’s only rescue vehicle is the European
Financial Stability Facility, with as little as 148 billion
euros left over after last month’s approval of Spanish bank aid.  “Whatever the short-term gut reaction of markets, the ECB
announcement constitutes serious progress,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “The
chances have risen substantially that the worst of the current
wave of euro crisis could soon be over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  