-- ECB Will Cut Main Rate Within Three Months, Money Markets Signal
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-08-02T08:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ecb-will-cut-main-rate-within-three-months-money-markets-signal.html
Money markets are signaling the
 European Central Bank  will cut borrowing costs within the next
three months even as economists forecast policy makers will
leave the benchmark rate unchanged today.  The rate that banks say they charge each other for three-
month loans has fallen below the European Central Bank’s
benchmark by the most since 2001, pointing to lower borrowing
costs, according to analysts including Alessandro Giansanti at
ING Bank in Amsterdam. The central bank last cut its main rate
on July 5 to 0.75 percent.  “There is high expectation in the market for the
refinancing rate to be lowered in the next three months,” said
Giansanti, who forecasts the rate may be cut to as low as 0.25
percent by October.  ECB officials meeting today are expected to discuss
measures to stimulate the region’s economy after President  Mario
Draghi  last week pledged to do everything to preserve the euro.
The Frankfurt-based bank has already been forced to take
unprecedented steps to support the euro region’s financial
system, including giving banks more than $1.2 trillion of three-
year loans and cutting its deposit rate to zero for the first
time.  The euro interbank offered rate, or Euribor, for three-
month loans has declined to a record since the ECB cut its
refinancing rate by 25 basis points and the deposit rate to
zero. The European Banking Federation’s benchmark declined to
0.381 percent yesterday, 37 basis points  below  the rate it
charges banks for funding, the most since November 2001.  ‘Rule of Thumb’  “A good portion of the Euribor rate is determined by the
refinancing rate, so it serves as a rule of thumb for where the
rate will go,” said  Richard McGuire , senior fixed-income
strategist at Rabobank International in  London . “Market
participants believe that a rate cut is likely, but we’d expect
the ECB to sit at the sidelines and see the potential impact of
the most recent cuts before acting again.”  Euribor was 38 basis points below the refinancing rate on
Nov. 7, 2001 before the ECB cut the rate 50 basis points to 3.25
percent to boost growth. The cut will allow banks to access
central bank funding at a cheaper rate.  Euribor, which is derived from a daily survey of 43  lenders 
for the EBF, is expected to continue to slide to 28 basis
points, according to the implied rate on the Euribor futures
contract expiring in September.  Four out of 55 analysts surveyed in a Bloomberg poll
forecast the refinancing rate to be cut to 0.5 percent today
with the majority predicting no change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  