-- ECB Keeps Rates as Draghi Pressured to Bring Down Yields
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-02T12:04:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ecb-keeps-rates-on-hold-as-draghi-pressured-to-bring-down-yields.html
The  European Central Bank  refrained
from cutting interest rates as President  Mario Draghi  faces
pressure to reduce bond yields to protect the euro.  Policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  today left the  benchmark
rate  at a record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by 51 of 55
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Four predicted a cut to
0.50 percent. The deposit rate was held at zero. Draghi holds a
press conference at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.  Investors and politicians are clamoring for ECB action to
quell  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis, which is threatening to
cripple Spain and  Italy  and splinter the 17-nation monetary
union. While Draghi signaled in  London  last week that he’s
prepared to intervene in bond markets to reduce soaring
borrowing costs, he may face resistance from  Germany ’s
Bundesbank.  The euro climbed after today’s rate decision, rising half a
cent to $1.2314.  “Draghi will announce more measures during the press
conference,” said  Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at
Nomura International Plc in London. “If they don’t start bond
purchases now, it’ll happen pretty quickly. They won’t be able
to tame markets solely via rhetoric and will need to put actions
behind words.”  Fed, BOE  The Federal Reserve yesterday pledged to take new policy
steps as needed to promote stronger economic growth and
employment. The  Bank of England  today held its key rate at 0.5
percent and maintained its bond-purchase target at 375 billion
pounds ($586 billion).  Draghi’s pledge to act has fueled a global market rally,
taking Spain’s 10-year bond yield down to 6.65 percent today
from 7.75 percent on July 25. It is still 530 basis points above
the German equivalent.  “To the extent that the size of these sovereign premia
hamper the functioning of the monetary policy transmission
channel, they come within our mandate,” Draghi said on July 26.
“Within our mandate, the ECB is ready to do whatever it takes
to preserve the euro. And believe me, it will be enough.”  Having fueled expectations to such an extent, “Draghi is
hardly likely to want to appear empty-handed,” said Christoph Balz, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “But none of
the options are easy to implement. Perhaps Draghi will pull a
new rabbit out of the hat.”  Seeking Consensus  In the past week, Draghi has canvassed support among ECB
council members and politicians for a multi-pronged approach to
reduce yields, two central bank officials with knowledge of the
discussions said on July 27.  Draghi proposes that Europe’s rescue fund buy government
bonds on the primary market, flanked by ECB purchases on the
secondary market to ensure transmission of its  interest rates ,
the officials said on condition of anonymity. Further ECB rate
cuts and long-term loans to banks were also up for discussion as
the euro economy slides toward recession, one of the officials
said.  While the leaders of Germany, France and Italy have
appeared to endorse Draghi’s plan, echoing his language in
saying they will do whatever is necessary to protect the euro,
significant hurdles remain.  For the rescue fund to buy sovereign debt, the government
in question must make a formal application, and any aid would
carry conditions. Spain has no intention of making such a
request, Treasury head Inigo Fernandez de Mesa said July 30.  ‘Awkward Position’  “Draghi therefore finds himself in an awkward position,”
said  Ken Wattret  , chief euro-zone economist at BNP Paribas SA
in London. “Either he will disappoint market expectations
relative to what was said last week or alternatively, the ECB
will have to fly solo and re-start the SMP.”  The ECB’s bond-buying instrument, the Securities Markets
Program, has been dormant since March.  The day after Draghi spoke in London, the Bundesbank
reiterated its opposition to ECB bond purchases, saying they
blur the line between fiscal and monetary policy. Draghi planned
to hold talks with Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann this week
in an attempt to find common ground, the two central bank
officials said.  The ECB shouldn’t overstep its mandate, Weidmann said in a
June 29 interview posted on the Bundesbank’s website yesterday.
Weidmann attended today’s ECB council meeting, a Bundesbank
spokesman said.  Other Options  Another option is for the ECB to purchase bank and
corporate bonds to ease financing conditions, said Huw Pill,
chief European economist at Goldman Sachs International in
London. Pill expects the ECB to allow national central banks to
buy such assets at their own risk, which would “offer scope for
surgical interventions targeted to address the most impaired
elements of monetary policy transmission,” he said in a note to
clients on July 29.  Policy makers could also decide to offer banks another
batch of long-term loans, known as Longer Term Refinancing
Operations. Bond yields declined after the ECB flooded markets
with more than 1 trillion euros ($1.23 trillion) of cheap three-
year loans in December and February as banks in  Spain  and Italy
used the funds to purchase the debt of their governments.  “The ECB has been emphasizing that it has yet to evaluate
the full impact of the previous LTROs, making another one less
likely in the short term,” said Athanasios Vamvakidis, head
European currency strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. If it does opt for such a measure, the bank may have to
complement it with looser collateral requirements, he said,
adding that lowering haircuts on asset-backed securities could
free up as much as 100 billion euros of additional collateral.  Banking License  Economists said one grand solution to the crisis is
unlikely to be announced today: giving Europe’s permanent
bailout fund, the European Stability Mechanism, a banking
license. That would allow the 500 billion-euro ESM to borrow
from the ECB, boosting its firepower.  “A banking license for the ESM or open-ended purchases of
 government bonds  would violate the ECB’s prohibition of deficit
financing,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa
International in London. “This is likely to be one of the most
important press conferences in the short history of the ECB. But
market expectations have gone well beyond realism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  