-- Edison Mission Bonds Worth 54 Cents in Bankruptcy, JPMorgan Says
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-08-02T21:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/edison-mission-bonds-worth-54-cents-in-bankruptcy-jpmorgan-says.html
Bondholders of  Edison International (EIX) ’s
generation unit may recover 54 cents on the dollar in an
increasingly probable bankruptcy scenario for the unprofitable
power producer, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  Edison Mission Energy’s bonds are trading at about 54
cents, which JPMorgan high yield utilities analysts Dave Katz
and Bayina Bashtaeva estimate to be recovery. Edison Mission may
need to cut its $3.7 billion of  debt  by more than the $1 billion
the company has forecast, they wrote in a note today. Chief
Executive Officer Ted Craver said the company would have to
reduce a “sufficient” amount of debt to be able to achieve
credit metrics allowing it to refinance the remainder, according
to a July 31 earnings conference call.  “This is an indication Edison would like to pursue a
greater than $1 billion reduction,” the analysts wrote.  Edison International, owner of  California ’s second-largest
electric utility, said yesterday in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission that its money-losing,
unregulated generation unit may have to file for  Chapter 11
bankruptcy protection . The net loss at Edison Mission Group
widened to $110 million from $30 million a year ago on lower
power prices and higher fuel costs, the Rosemead, California-
based company said yesterday.  Edison Mission spokesman Doug McFarlan couldn’t be
immediately reached for comment.  Bonds Plunge  Edison Mission’s $500 million of 7.5 percent senior
unsecured notes due June 2013 dropped to 54.8 cents on the
dollar, from as high as 100.25 cents on Aug. 3, as of 1:26 p.m.
in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Its $500 million
of 7.75 percent notes due June 2016 fell to 53.8 cents today,
Trace data show.  Edison Mission has been hurt by a slump in power prices and
rising environmental-compliance costs for its coal-fired  power
plants , and is in talks with bondholders to restructure debt and
may have to reorganize its generation unit under new ownership
if talks are unsuccessful, Craver said on a conference call with
investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  