-- Egypt’s New Government Prepares to Take Helm of Nation
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-08-02T17:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/egypt-s-new-government-prepares-to-take-helm-of-nation.html
Egyptian Prime Minister Hisham Qandil
called for unity as he was sworn in to head a government largely
of technocrats that will be faced with leading a nation mired in
economic troubles and political infighting.  The Cabinet picked by Qandil took the oath of office before
President Mohamed Mursi. It includes many little-known figures
and isn’t stacked with Islamists, a concern of some secularists
given that Mursi was drawn from the Muslim Brotherhood’s ranks.  “It is time to line up around the elected president and
the new government,” Qandil told reporters in Cairo hours
before the swearing in ceremony. “This government will not work
alone and will definitely not succeed alone. We are the people’s
government. We do not represent this or that affiliation.”  Mursi succeeded  Hosni Mubarak , who was toppled in a popular
uprising almost 18 months ago, and promised a diverse, inclusive
Cabinet. Qandil said that Egypt faces “huge” challenges
including a 135 billion-pound deficit ($22.2 billion) that
amounts to 7.6 percent of gross domestic product, internal debt
of 1.18 trillion pounds and foreign debt of $33.8 billion.  “The appointment of Egypt’s first permanent government
since the revolution is a significant step forward in the
country’s political transition,” Dubai-based HSBC senior
economists Liz Martins and  Simon Williams  said in an e-mailed
statement. “Most immediately, it offers some prospect for a
resumption of policy making after 18 months of political drift,
including the resumption of talks with the IMF.”  ‘Wide Consensus’  Egypt’s need to secure a $3.2 billion loan from the
 International Monetary Fund  enjoys “wide consensus” in the new
government, Qandil said. Ministers in charge of economic
portfolios will meet next week to discuss it, he said.  The loan, first sought by Egypt more than a year ago,
remains unapproved, with the political consensus that the lender
had sought as a precondition elusive amid a tug-of-war over
power between Mursi and the generals from whom he inherited
power. More than 50 percent of Egypt’s foreign reserves have
been spent since January 2011.  Secularists, youth activists who played a key role in the
unrest and the minority  Coptic Christians  had expressed concern
the new government would mostly be drawn from the Brotherhood’s
political arm, the Freedom and Justice Party, or other
Islamists. Protests over issues such as daily power and water
outages combined with labor strikes to heighten tension.  “This is the government tasked with achieving the
revolution’s goals: bread, freedom and social justice,” Qandil
said.  FJP Portfolios  The appointment of Qandil, a U.S.-educated former
irrigation minister, fell short of expectations that secularists
and others had about the naming of an independent national unity
figure to lead  Egypt  through its worst economic crisis in more
than a decade.  The FJP secured at least three portfolios, based on the
list released so far -- a far cry from the 25 percent to 50
percent of the posts that some in the party had said they were
targeting. While many of the ministers selected were
technocrats, it’s unclear if they have Islamist sympathies.  Salah Abdel-Maqsoud, a senior member of the Freedom and
Justice Party, will be the country’s minister of information.
Also drawn from the FJP was the youth minister, as well as one
other post, so far.  Defense Minister  Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, who heads the
military council that assumed power after Mubarak’s ouster, will
retain the post of defense minister in the new government.  Qandil said the criteria he used for the selection were
individual expertise and the nominee’s commitment to public
service.  At least nine ministers also served under the outgoing
Cabinet, including Finance Minister Momtaz el-Saieed and Foreign
Minister Mohamed Kamel Amr.  The Salafi al-Nour Party, which came in second to the FJP
with 25 percent of the seats in the now-dissolved parliament,
has refused to join the new government, the state-run Al-Ahram
reported, citing senior party member Younis Makhyoun. The party
had been given the relatively low-profile  Environment Ministry ,
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  