-- Eksportfinans to Pull Plug Once Debts Paid, CEO Says
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-08-02T10:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/eksportfinans-to-pull-plug-once-debts-paid-ceo-says.html
Eksportfinans ASA has no plans to
continue operating once it has wound down its loan book and paid
off all outstanding debt following  Norway ’s decision last year
to pull its support, the company’s chief executive officer said.  The lender, created half a century ago to help finance
Norwegian exporters, doesn’t have a strategy to continue after
it winds down its current debt, CEO Gisele Marchand said
yesterday in a telephone interview from Oslo. The question
whether to continue was “hypothetical” and “long in the
future,” she said.  Norway in November decided to cut its support for Oslo-
based Eksportfinans after rejecting the lender’s pleas to
sidestep European capital rules limiting large loans to single
industries. The move led Moody’s Investors Service to downgrade
the Aa3 rated company to junk, roiling investors in the
company’s $39 billion in bonds as far away as  Japan .  Eksportfinans’ Chief Financial Officer Geir Ove Olsen said
in a March interview that the company was exploring ways of
keeping its business running and that it would have “strategy
discussions” with the board to assess its “alternatives.”  Moody’s finished the company’s review this week and
confirmed its Ba1 rating, after judging that “the short-term
uncertainty surrounding Eksportfinans’s ability to adequately
manage its risks whilst running down its loan portfolio has
decreased.” Still, it kept a “negative” outlook because the
lender “continues to face substantial longer-term risks whilst
running down its loan portfolio, especially due to its limited
access to  capital markets ,” Moody’s said.  Bond Rally  According to Marchand, the company doesn’t need funding and
is in a situation “where we will be able to honor our
outstanding debt” and where capital “will be intact.”  Eksportfinans’ bonds have rallied from the trough triggered
by last year’s ratings downgrade. The yield on the company’s
4.75 percent 1 billion-euro note maturing in 2013 eased to 2.73
percent today, from a Nov. 30 high of 10.5 percent.  Eksportfinans has rejected speculation it may already be in
default as claimed by one investor last year, and “we haven’t
heard anything since then,” Marchand said.  “The situation has been much calmer in the second quarter
of this year,” she said. “Few questions from investors -- and
also the pricing of our debt has gone in the right direction.”  Norway announced in April it would form a fully state-owned
lender to fund export credits to replace Eksportfinans,
supporting the new company with as much as 40 billion kroner in
direct loans. The government has defended its move to remove
support from Eksportfinans as necessary to safeguard financing
for the country’s exporters.  Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by the government.  DNB
ASA (DNB) , the country’s biggest bank, holds 40 percent, while 23
percent is held by  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , the largest Nordic lender.
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  in Copenhagen owns 8.09 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  