-- Telecom Italia First-Half Profit Beats Analysts Estimates
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-08-02T07:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/telecom-italia-first-half-profit-beats-analysts-estimates.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) ,  Italy ’s largest
phone company, posted a first-half profit that beat analyst
estimates and confirmed its full-year forecasts and dividend
policy. The shares rose as much as 4.7 percent.  Net income was 1.25 billion euros ($1.53 billion) compared
with a restated net loss of 2.04 billion euros a year earlier,
when the Milan-based company took a 3.18 billion euro impairment
charge related to its domestic business, it said today in a
statement. Six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated profit
of 1.19 billion euros on average.  “In a complex macroeconomic context, the solid first half
results allow us to confirm our full-year guidelines,” Chief
Executive Officer Franco Bernabe said. He also confirmed “the
sustainability of the dividend policy previously announced.”  Telecom Italia and other European former phone monopolies
such as  Spain ’s  Telefonica SA (TEF)  are suffering in their home
markets amid economies burdened by the sovereign-debt crisis.
Last month, Telefonica scrapped its 2012 dividend and said it
will resume half its payouts toward the end of next year, citing
a challenging economic environment.  “Telecom Italia announced there is no dividend cut which
was a primary market fear after Telefonica cut dividends to
zero,” Saeed Baradar, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London ,
wrote in a note today.  Shares Rise  Sales rose 1.7 percent to 14.8 billion euros, matching the
average analyst estimate.  Telecom Italia was up 3 percent at 70.05 euro cents as of
9:19 a.m. in Milan, giving the company a market value of 12.9
billion euros. The stock has dropped 16 percent this year,
compared with a 2.7 percent drop of the 23-member Bloomberg
Europe Telecommunications Services Index.  A  slowing  economy in  Brazil  has affected the Italian
company’s local business  Tim Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)  The unit reported
a 0.9 percent decline in second-quarter profit on July 30 and
said it saw “a strong deceleration” in first-half economic
growth and “intensified” competition. It forecast a better
economic environment in the second half. Telecom Italia’s
Argentinian unit reported a 1 percent rise in first-half
earnings.  “They beat expectations that had been heavily reduced by
company commentary, results of competitors and their Brazilian
unit where competition is rising and regulation getting
tougher,” said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein. “Things got a little worse in the second quarter,
which is hardly surprising given the Italian economy, but
overall these are a long way from disaster.”  Brazil Regulator  In July, network failures prompted Brazil’s
telecommunications regulator Anatel to suspend new sales of
voice and data service by Tim, America Movil SAB’s Claro and  Oi
SA (OIBR4)  in some states. The lifting of the ban will hinge on the
investment plans presented by the companies to improve quality.
Telecom Italia said today it’s “confident that, given the
exhaustive nature of the plan, Anatel will lift the suspension
shortly.”  Telecom Italia also named Chief Financial Officer Andrea Mangoni as managing director for  South America . He will continue
as CFO until a replacement is found.  In April, Bernabe said the company may consider separating
its fixed-access network from its other business.  Debt Forecast  Telecom Italia’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization declined 1.6 percent to 5.86
billion euros. The company reiterated a February forecast of
“essentially unchanged” revenue and Ebitda this year,
excluding currency swings, acquisitions, disposals and non-
organic income.  Domestic fixed-line revenue dropped 2.9 percent to 6.47
billion euros and mobile sales in Italy fell 3.4 percent to 3.38
billion euros.  Adjusted net debt rose to 30.4 billion euros at the end of
June from 30.3 billion euros at the end of March. The company
repeated a forecast that adjusted net debt will fall to about
27.5 billion euros at the end of 2012. “Recent bond issues
contributed to maintaining a liquidity margin to cover our debt
maturity until 2014,” Bernabe said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  