-- Telus Investor Mason Capital Seeks Shareholder Meeting
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-08-02T22:18:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/telus-investor-mason-capital-seeks-shareholder-meeting.html
Telus Corp. (T)  investor Mason Capital
Management LLC is seeking a meeting of shareholders in a bid to
counter a potential move by  Canada ’s third-largest wireless
carrier to eliminate its dual-class stock structure.  Mason Capital, a New York-based hedge fund, objects to the
so-called one-for-one proposal, which would extend  voting rights 
to both classes of stock. At the meeting,  investors  with voting
shares would decide whether to create a minimum premium
valuation of either 4.75 percent -- the historic average trading
premium of the voting shares over the nonvoting shares
-- or a premium of 8 percent, Mason Capital said today.  “A one-for-one proposal unfairly takes value away from
voting shareholders who have paid for it and gives it to
nonvoting shareholders for free, including Telus’s board and
senior management whose personal economic interests in Telus are
heavily weighted to the nonvoting shares,” Mason Capital said
in a statement.  On May 9, Telus withdrew a plan to convert its nonvoting
shares to common stock hours before shareholders were set to
vote on the proposal. The company said the initiative wouldn’t
succeed because Mason Capital opposed the plan. Telus Chief
Executive Officer Darren Entwistle said in May that he remains
committed to a one-for-one share conversion and plans to
introduce a new proposal “in due course.”  A Telus spokesman,  Shawn Hall , said Mason is trying to
conduct empty voting -- a practice that gives a fund more ballot
power than its economic stake warrants. Telus, based in
 Vancouver , said in May that Mason Capital was voting C$1.9
billion ($1.9 billion) worth of common shares with only a C$25
million net holding.  “Mason is trying to advance its voting strategy,” Hall
said in an interview today. “From our perspective, it’s just
another nuisance play.”  Telus is required to hold the meeting of shareholders
within four months from today, according to Mason Capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  