-- Emerging Stocks Fall From 4-Week High Before ECB Meeting
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-08-02T22:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/emerging-stocks-fall-for-1st-day-in-6-before-ecb-meeting.html
Emerging-market stocks fell from a
four-week high after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  didn’t announce any immediate steps to stem the region’s
crisis, disappointing investors who expected stronger measures.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated for the first
time in six days, dropping 1 percent to 944.94. Brazil’s Bovespa
stock index slid, pushed down by homebuilder MRV Engenharia  &
Participacoes SA and Lojas Renner SA, the country’s biggest
publicly-traded clothing retailer.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
which gets more than a third of its sales from Europe and
America, slid the most in three weeks.  Draghi, speaking to reporters in  Frankfurt , signaled the
bank will join with governments to buy sovereign bonds without
listing definitive measures to bolster growth. Last week, Draghi
had pledged to do “whatever it takes” to preserve the euro.
The 21 countries in the MSCI emerging market  index (VXEEM)  send about 30
percent of their exports to the European Union on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  “Had he not made those comments last week, then this would
have been taken positively,” Lars Christensen, the chief
 emerging-markets  analyst at Danske Bank in Copenhagen, said by
phone. “He has, to a very large extent, confused the markets.”  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, fell 1.2
percent to $38.73, the lowest level in a week. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a
measure of options prices on the fund and expectations of price
swings, declined 1.4 percent to 27.09.  Chinese Developers  The Bovespa fell 1.4 percent in  Sao Paulo , with Lojas
Renner dropping 4.4 percent, the most since April 10. MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes lost 5.8 percent, falling for a third
day. The company was added yesterday to a Brazilian list of
companies whose workers operate in slave-like conditions.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.6 percent.  Poly Real
Estate (600048)  slumped 9.2 percent. Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
country will “unswervingly” implement property controls and
prevent housing prices from rebounding, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported this week, citing a government meeting held on
July 26.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  lost 1 percent, the
steepest drop since July 23.  China Railway Construction Corp. (1186) 
fell 3.5 percent after agreeing to buy a 15 percent stake in
 Inter Milan , an Italian  soccer club , according to people
familiar with the talks. Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  rose 0.2
percent, climbing for a fourth day and reaching its highest
level since May 8.  The  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 0.6 percent in Seoul. Samsung
Electronics, South Korea’s largest exporter of consumer
electronics, declined 2.9 percent in Seoul.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460)  rose
2.7 percent after its partner  Eni SpA (ENI)  announced a “new giant”
gas discovery off the coast of  Mozambique .  Typhoon Shutdown  Taiwan’s financial markets were closed due to a typhoon.  The  Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index  of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps rose 7 basis points
to 251.5, rising for the first time in seven days.  The swaps gauge typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased 2 basis points to 336 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  