-- Enbridge Prepares Pipeline Expansions as Profit Falls
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-08-02T20:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/enbridge-prepares-pipeline-expansions-as-profit-falls.html
Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the largest
transporter of Canadian crude to the U.S., began a series of
pipeline projects in the second quarter, part of an C$8 billion
($7.9 billion) plan to boost shipments of Canadian and Bakken
oil to new markets.  Enbridge has enough commercial support to proceed with
plans to expand its Toledo pipeline in the U.S. and re-reverse
Line 9 in  Canada , the Calgary-based company said in a statement
today. It also expects to go forward with plans to expand lines
that connect the U.S. with Alberta and Ontario, helping to ship
more oil-sands output and unclog bottlenecks caused by rising
North American crude output.  “Our eastern access projects complement our previously
announced Gulf Coast access projects in expanding access to new
markets in  North America  for growing production from western
Canada and the Bakken,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Pat Daniel said in the statement.  Enbridge owns and operates Canada’s largest oil pipeline
network spanning 24,738 kilometers (15,372 miles) that ship 2.3
million barrels of crude and liquids a day. Increasing
production in Canada and the Bakken formation in  North Dakota 
and  Wyoming  require more pipeline investment and Daniel expects
a 10 percent increase in adjusted earnings per share “through
the middle of this decade and beyond.”  The expansion plans come after a series of spills from
Enbridge pipelines. The most recent spill was of 1,200 barrels
near Grand Marsh,  Wisconsin , on July 27. Enbridge faces a record
$3.7 million fine from the U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials
Safety Administration for a 2010 rupture that spilled more than
20,000 barrels of oil into a tributary of the Kalamazoo River in
 Michigan .  Northern Gateway  Enbridge said on July 20 it will spend as much as C$500
million more to use thicker steel and increase monitoring on its
proposed Northern Gateway pipeline, in response to criticism
about the risks of an  oil spill . The 1,177-kilometer, C$5.5
billion conduit would traverse the  Rocky Mountains  and end on
the Pacific Coast of British Columbia, allowing for oil-sands
exports.  “The trend is declining in terms of our leaks,” Enbridge
President Al Monaco said during an earnings conference call
today with analysts today. “We’re at about half of the rate of
industry in terms of that benchmark.”  Enbridge second-quarter  net income  fell 96 percent to C$11
million, or 1 cent a share, from C$302 million, or 25 cents, a
year earlier, the company said in the statement. Excluding one-
time items, per-share profit was 2 cents less than the 38-cent
average of 14 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline was caused in part by losses on financial
derivatives used to manage currency, commodity and interest rate
volatility, the company said.  Enbridge fell 1.5 percent to C$39.90 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have gained 4.8 percent this year, beating
the 0.6 percent decline for the 64-member  S&P/TSX Energy Index. (STENRS) 
The stock has 12 buy  ratings,  four holds and two sells.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  