-- Lender Processing to Pay $2 Million Over Robo-Signing
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-02T22:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/lender-processing-to-pay-2-million-over-robo-signing-1-.html
Lender Processing Services Inc. (LPS) 
agreed to pay Missouri $2 million to resolve a case against its
DocX LLC over so-called robo-signing of mortgage-related
documents.  A Columbia, Missouri, grand jury in February handed down a
136-count indictment against Docx and founder Lorraine Brown
alleging that a person whose name appears on 68 notarized deeds
of release didn’t actually sign those papers, Missouri Attorney
General Chris Koster said then.  “Under the agreement, LPS will pay the state of Missouri
$2 million and will cooperate with the Attorney General’s Office
in its continuing criminal investigation” of Brown, Koster said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Lender Processing Services is a provider of loan services
technology, including a platform it says is used by the industry
to handle about 50 percent of all U.S. mortgages by dollar
value.  Robo-signing is a term used for the practice of signing
mortgage-related documents without regard for their accuracy.  The Jacksonville, Florida-based company acknowledged the
Missouri accord in a separately issued  statement .  ‘Important Milestone’  “This settlement is an important milestone in our ongoing
efforts to resolve legal and regulatory issues related to the
operations of DocX, which we closed in 2010,” Lender Processing
Services Chief Executive Officer Hugh Harris said in the
statement.  Koster and the company said $1.5 million of the settlement
money will go to the Missouri treasury, while the balance will
reimburse the attorney general’s office for the costs of the
probe.  “When you sign your name to a legal document, it
matters,” Koster said when he announced the charges. “Mass-
producing fraudulent signatures on millions of real estate
documents across America constitutes forgery.”  Brown’s attorney, Michael Holder of Columbia,  Missouri ,
didn’t immediately reply to a phone message seeking comment on
the settlement.  The cases are State v. DocX LLC, 12BA-CROO433, and State v.
Brown, 12BA-CR00430, Boone County, Missouri, Circuit Court
(Columbia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  