-- Merger Loans Most Since 2008 as AB InBev Borrows: Credit Markets
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-08-02T15:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/merger-loans-most-since-2008-as-ab-inbev-borrows-credit-markets.html
Companies are borrowing the most in
the loan market since 2008 to finance acquisitions worldwide,
betting that they can quickly replace the debt with permanent
financing as yields on corporate bonds fall to records.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer,
obtained $14 billion in credit to buy  Mexico ’s Grupo Modelo SAB,
and  Nestle SA (NESN)  raised $8.5 billion for Pfizer Inc.’s baby-food
unit, pushing loans for mergers to $221 billion this year, up 34
percent from the same period of 2011 and the most since $276
billion four years ago, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Anheuser-Busch sold $7.5 billion in bonds last month that will
partly repay the loans, while Nestle plans to do the same within
12 months.  While loan costs are rising, yields on bonds are falling,
declining below 3 percent this week for the first time. Interest
on short-term credit average 1.29 percentage points more than
benchmark lending rates, up from 1.19 percentage point a year
ago, Bloomberg data show.  “The formula of banks providing a short-term loan bridge
to bonds for corporate acquisitions has worked exceptionally
well this year,” said Graham Lofts, the London-based head of
international loan origination at Commerzbank AG. “Funding and
regulatory pressures are making bank debt more expensive, but
this new paradigm is not going to stop corporates from making
important strategic moves.”  Yields Drop  More stringent  capital requirements  introduced by
regulators to prevent lending practices that exacerbated the
financial crisis have made it more expensive for banks to extend
loans, and prompted lenders in  Europe  to pledge more than $1
trillion of balance-sheet cuts.  Yields on company bonds globally fell to an unprecedented
2.998 percent as of July 31, from 3.014 percent a day earlier,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Data. The gauge was
at 3.98 percent at year-end and 3.64 percent a year ago.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, adding
3.1 basis points to a mid-price of 108.7 basis points as of
11:26 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  Rate Swaps  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.3 basis point to 21.05 basis
points as of 11:26 a.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. are the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today,
with 85 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:27 a.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Bonds, Loans  Companies worldwide raised $2.27 trillion from bonds this
year, up 2 percent from the same period of 2011, according to
Bloomberg data. In Europe, bond sales overtook new loans this
year for the first time, according to a Fitch Ratings report
from July 3. Note deals made up 52 percent of the 467 billion
euros ($571 billion) of new corporate funding in the first half
of this year, compared with 29 percent for all of 2011.  Within two weeks after announcing on June 29 its plan to
obtain $14 billion loans for the purchase of a 50 percent stake
in  Grupo Modelo , Leuven, Belgium-based InBev sold $7.5 billion
of notes to fund the deal with coupons at the lowest on record
for bonds of similar maturities issued by the company.  The maker of Budweiser and  Stella Artois  agreed to pay
interest at a margin ranging from 110 basis points to 240 basis
points if it uses a three-year $8 billion loan. The $1.5 billion
in 0.8 percent, three-year bonds it sold last month were priced
to yield 33 basis points more than the  London  interbank offered
rate if swapped into floating-rate debt.  Nestle’s Financing  Nestle, the world’s biggest food maker, obtained an $8.5
billion 364-day loan in July as a backup facility for its $11.9
billion takeover of Pfizer’s baby-food unit.  The Vevey, Switzerland-based company will pay interest at
20 basis points more than benchmark lending rates to use the
funds, which is double the margin it agreed to pay for a 4.5
billion-euro  credit line  last year, according to Bloomberg data.  Lenders led by Citigroup said Nestle plans to cancel the
loan within 12 months with bond sales.  “These companies are taking advantage of attractive
valuations and very low bond funding costs to expand,” said
 Suki Mann , credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in London.
“Any new supply coming from these well-known blue chips will
provide existing bondholders a chance to top up their exposure
or for new investors to get in.”  InBev’s move to sell bonds to lock in half of the funding
for the Modelo acquisition more than five months before the deal
closes may be a signal of management’s concern that debt might
not be as cheap again when it actually needs it, research firm
CreditSights Inc. said in a July 11 note.  ‘Opportunistic Deals’  “The market is not concerned that the recent increase of
M&A deals may be an ominous sign that we are heading back
towards a debt fueled acquisition path,” said Societe
Generale’s Mann. “What we are seeing is a few opportunistic
deals.”  Companies sold $78.8 billion of bonds for acquisitions and
bridge-loan repayments this year, compared with $76.4 billion a
year earlier, Bloomberg data show.  While borrowing for mergers is on the rise, the volume of
deals is down. Companies worldwide announced $978.6 billion of
acquisitions this year, including $556 billion in the second
quarter, compared with $1.2 trillion in the same period of 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 40 percent of the global loan volume for acquisitions
comes from deals in the U.S., and about 33 percent from Europe,
the  Middle East  and  Africa , Bloomberg data show.  China, Japan  China  surged more than six times to $5 billion and  Japan 
rose at least 35 percent to $10 billion after Tokyo-based Dentsu
Inc. got 395.8 billion yen ($5 billion) of loans to finance its
purchase of Britain’s  Aegis Group Plc. (AGS) , Bloomberg data show.  “Cash-rich Japanese corporates including large trading
houses have more than doubled overseas acquisitions this year,”
said Michael Potter, assistant general manager at Sumitomo
Mitsui Banking Corp. in London. “This is a trend that is set to
continue. Europe has long been the favorite destination for
Japanese acquirers on the lookout for assets. The relatively
strong yen has spurred Japanese companies into M&As.”  The yen has advanced 14.7 percent against the euro and 3.2
percent against the pound the past 12 months. China’s  yuan  rose
5.96 percent against the pound and 17.7 percent versus the euro.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s biggest offshore oil and gas explorer,
is seeking about $5 billion of short-term loans to fund its
$15.1 billion offer to buy Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in the largest
overseas bid from a Chinese company, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  “China’s vast foreign currency reserves need to be put to
work and an increasingly stronger yuan is making European and
U.S. assets cheap,” Potter said. “The European market has the
attraction of being more diversified than the U.S. and with the
Eurozone in trouble, there are chances to pick up cheap
assets.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  