-- Hon Hai to Renegotiate Investment in Sharp After Losses
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-03T12:19:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/terry-gou-s-investment-in-sharp-exceeded-by-first-quarter-losses.html
Foxconn Technology Group, maker of
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads, plans to renegotiate the price of its
investment in  Sharp Corp. (6753)  after the Japanese TV maker widened
its loss forecast and the shares fell the most since 1974.  “We plan to discuss the investment again, but for sure it
won’t be at the original 550 yen-per-share,” Simon Hsing, a
spokesman for  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. (2317) , the Taipei-based
flagship of Foxconn, said by phone today. “Sharp has agreed to
us taking at least the same size of stake, with the possibility
of an even larger stake.”  Hon Hai, the world’s largest contract manufacturer of
electronics, intends to continue with the investment, Hsing
said. Foxconn group companies will no longer recognize the
NT$6.4 billion ($214 million) write-off they made last quarter
because of Sharp’s share price decline, Hsing said. Miyuki Nakayama, a spokeswoman for Sharp, said the company hasn’t been
approached by Hon Hai about renegotiating the terms.  Taiwan billionaire Terry Gou and his group agreed in March
to invest 133 billion yen ($1.7 billion) to rescue Sharp, the
Osaka-based company that reported a 138 billion-yen quarterly
loss yesterday. The investment in Japan’s biggest liquid-crystal
display maker may help Foxconn guarantee  access  to technology
for panels used in mobile phones and TVs.  ‘Disastrous’  Sharp shares plunged 28 percent to 192 yen in  Tokyo  trading
today after forecasting an annual  loss  of 250 billion yen.
That’s more than its market capitalization of 213 billion yen
after the stock’s biggest slump in more than three decades.  The decline could prompt Hon Hai to write off NT$6.1
billion and Foxconn Technology Co. NT$3.1 billion this quarter,
based on the original investment plan, according to estimates by
Vincent Chen, an analyst at Yuanta Securities Co. in Taipei.  Sharp’s convertible bonds due September 2013 dropped to 87
percent of the notes’ face value.  “It’s disastrous for Sharp,” said Amir Anvarzadeh,
Singapore-based manager for Asia equity sales at BGC. “Hon Hai
has to increase its stake in Sharp to keep it alive. Or they
could turn around and write it off.”  There’s no fixed timeline for when a new price will be
agreed, and the original transaction has not been completed,
Hsing said. Foxconn intends to proceed with its technology
cooperation and taking an equity stake, he said.  Gou Investment  Foxconn, a maker of computer casings, and its affiliates
agreed to buy  a 9.9 stake in Sharp . Gou invested 66 billion yen
for a 37.6 percent stake in Sakai Display Products Corp.,
formerly known as Sharp Display and using the LCD industry’s
most advanced technology.  Last month, the cost to insure Sharp’s  debt  against default
in the short term outstripped that for the longer term for the
first time, a signal investors have concerns about the company’s
ability to repay debt.  The two-year contracts on  Japan ’s largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays jumped 453.7 basis points since June to 941.9
basis points, while the five-year cost rose 295 to 897.7,
according to CMA prices as of Aug. 2.  Sharp had a  net loss  of 138.4 billion yen in the three
months ended June 30,  widening  from 49.3 billion yen a year
earlier, the Osaka-based company said. The average of four
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was a loss of 76
billion yen.  The extra yield investors demand to own convertible bonds
instead of government debt soared 489.4 basis points to a record
1,243.6 basis points, prices from the Tokyo Stock Exchange at
10:11 a.m. show.  Sony, Panasonic  Sharp has asked its  lenders  for a “back-up structure” to
help the company raise long-term funds, Tetsuo Onishi, the
senior managing director in charge of accounting, told reporters
in Tokyo.  Sharp has 2 billion yen of bonds maturing later this month
and about 200 billion yen of  convertible bonds  maturing in
September 2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The prediction for further losses contrasts with  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s forecast of profit and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ’s return to
profit. Sony, the maker of Bravia TVs and PlayStation game
machines reeling from four consecutive years of losses, reduced
its full-year forecasts for net income, operating profit and
sales yesterday, citing the slowing global economy and a
stronger yen eroding its overseas earnings.  “I can’t be bullish on the Japanese consumer electronics
makers,” said Ichiro Takamatsu, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based
Bayview Asset Management Co., which manages $2 billion. “I
don’t see any promising products enough to spur their sales.”  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s biggest TV maker, said
last month that net income in the quarter ended June was 5.19
trillion won ($4.6 billion).  Record Loss  Sharp, which also makes solar cells, said it will implement
its first  workforce reduction  since 1950. Restructuring expense
drove the company to forecast a net loss eight times greater
than its own  projection  of a 30 billion-yen loss three months
ago. The loss outlook compares with the  average  65.3 billion-yen
loss estimate of 16 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’re in a situation where we can’t avoid taking job cuts
and I’m torn up inside,” said Takashi Okuda, who became Sharp’s
president in April. “Fixed costs weigh really heavy when sales
are falling.”  Sharp’s bigger rivals, Sony and Panasonic, are already
restructuring and shedding jobs.  Sony, which unveiled a plan in April to reduce 10,000 jobs
this fiscal year, reduced its staffing at marketing units in
developed countries and at its headquarters in the quarter ended
June 30, spokesman Shiro Kambe said yesterday. Osaka-based
Panasonic reduced 36,000 jobs in the year ended March 31.  Sharp promoted Okuda, 58, to replace  Mikio Katayama , who
became chairman, after predicting the worst loss in its 100-year
history amid slumping demand.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net 
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net 
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  