-- Ethanol Falls for Second Day on Economic Outlook
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-08-02T20:01:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ethanol-falls-for-second-day-on-economic-outlook.html
Ethanol futures fell a second day in
 Chicago  amid unease about Europe’s economic recovery and as U.S.
production of the biofuel rebounded from a two-year low.  Prices sank after  European Central Bank  President  Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors he was ready to take
immediately measures to support the region’s economy.
Separately, an Energy Department report showed ethanol  output 
rose for the first time in seven weeks and  stockpiles  jumped the
most since June 15. Oil futures dropped 2 percent.  “It’s primarily due to the inaction by the European
Central Bank,” said  Dan Flynn , a trader at Price Futures Group
in Chicago. “Crude oil is down pretty hard and that weakness
just carried over to the ethanol market.”  Denatured ethanol for August delivery fell 3.1 cents, or
1.2 percent, to $2.565 a gallon on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Prices gained 18 percent in July, the most since June 2008.  In cash market trading, ethanol in  New York  sank 4 cents to
$2.615 a gallon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
Chicago, the additive dropped 3 cents to $2.53.  Ethanol in the U.S. Gulf slid 3 cents, or 1.2 percent, to
$2.59 a gallon and on the West Coast the additive decreased 2
cents to $2.735.  Producers of the fuel had slashed output a record six
consecutive weeks because of negative margins to make the fuel
in the face of record corn prices from drought in the Midwest.  Corn for December delivery tumbled 0.6 percent to settle at
$7.9575 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade.  EPA Letter  A bipartisan group of 150 members of Congress today sent a
letter to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator
Lisa P. Jackson, asking her to reduce the nation’s Renewable
Fuel Standard, which mandates ethanol use, because of the higher
corn price and drought.  Flynn said the market hasn’t reacted to whether the law for
refiners to use 13.2 billion gallons of the fuel this year and
13.6 billion next year would be waived.  In 2008, Texas Governor  Rick Perry  submitted a waiver
request to the EPA on the mandate that was rejected. That year
 Arizona  Senator  John McCain , then the Republican candidate for
president, and other lawmakers asked the agency to adjust the
requirement because of higher corn prices.  “It’s all talk at this point,” Flynn said. “Traders are
looking at it like, ‘OK, we’ve seen this all before.’”  Ethanol interests, such as the Washington-based  Renewable
Fuels Association , contend that ample stockpiles coupled with
excess  credits  refiners can submit to the EPA to meet the
requirements are adequate and that no changes are needed to the
program.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  