-- MetLife’s Wheeler Says GM Pension Transfer a Catalyst
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-08-02T13:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/metlife-s-wheeler-says-gm-pension-transfer-a-catalyst.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life
insurer, said the deal reached by No. 2 Prudential Financial
Inc. to assume pension liabilities from  General Motors Co. (GM)  may
spark more transfers of risk to financial firms.  “It’s fair to view that as a bit of a catalyst,” said
William Wheeler, president of the Americas at New York-based
MetLife, in a conference call today. “That’s causing other
corporate treasurers of large traditional companies with old
traditional pension plans to think hard about what they should
be doing. Certainly there’s more conversation now than there was
pre-GM.”  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, said in June it would cut
its pension obligation by $26 billion by offering payments to
about 42,000 retirees and shifting plans to  Prudential (PRU)  for
workers who don’t take lump-sum awards. Detroit-based GM agreed
to contribute $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion in cash to the
salaried  pension plan  to help fund it and purchase the annuities
from Prudential, the automaker has said.  Low interest rates may pressure employers to seek to
transfer their obligations, because it is harder for companies
to generate returns on funds set aside for pension liabilities,
Wheeler said. Insurers are well equipped to take on the
contracts because they are used to managing large pools of
assets and have experience dealing with risk tied to  life
expectancies , Newark, New Jersey-based Prudential has said.  “I do think you’ll see more deals, more big deals,”
Wheeler said, adding that low  interest rates  also pressure
insurers and could limit the number of transactions. “We will
not do a big closeout just so we can print a big deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 Snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  