-- EU’s Ashton Delays Decision on Next Round of Iran Talks
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-08-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/eu-s-ashton-delays-decision-on-next-round-of-iran-talks.html
European Union foreign policy chief
 Catherine Ashton  spoke with Iran’s chief nuclear negotiator and
failed to set a date for the next round of talks aimed at having
Iran give up elements of its nuclear program.  The two officials agreed to talk again “after further
reflection at the end of the month,” according to an e-mailed
statement yesterday from Ashton’s office.  The two negotiators last met June 20 and, citing lack of
progress, directed lower-level officials to look for ways to
advance the talks. Those discussions were held and her remarks
indicated they made little, if any, progress.  “The gap remains wide,” a U.S. officials said, speaking
on condition of anonymity because the talks were private. Ashton
delivered a “tough message” to Iranian negotiator Saeed Jalili, the official said by e-mail.  “ Iran  needs to respond with greater seriousness and
purpose,” the U.S. official said, adding that sanctions
pressure will continue to increase.  During the telephone call with Jalili, “I impressed the
need for Iran now to address the issues we have raised in order
to build confidence,” Ashton said in her statement.  Six world powers -- the U.S., Russia,  China , France,
Germany and the U.K -- are pressing Iran on its nuclear program,
which the U.S. and  Israel  say may be used to make atomic
weapons. The Tehran government says its activities are for
civilian power and medical purposes only.  Uranium Enrichment  A central issue in the negotiations is whether Iran will
stop producing 20 percent enriched uranium, a level of purity a
step short of bomb grade, and move current stockpiles out of the
country to show that it isn’t seeking the capability to produce
nuclear weapons.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  told U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  Aug. 1 that time is “running out” for a
peaceful resolution of the stand-off with Iran over nuclear
development. Israel wants all of Iran’s uranium-enrichment
activities halted.  “Diplomacy is still an option for resolving this issue,”
according to the U.S. official who commented on Ashton’s call.
“The choice is Iran’s and, as it reflects over Ramadan, it
should decide to engage constructively when Ashton and Jalili
next speak.”  U.S.-led sanctions against Iran are costing OPEC’s third-
largest producer $133 million a day in lost sales without
raising global crude prices.  Oil Shipments  Shipments from Iran have  plunged  by 1.2 million barrels a
day, or 52 percent, since the sanctions banning the purchase,
transport, financing and insuring of Iranian crude began July 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Annualized, that would
cost President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ’s country about $48 billion
in revenue, equivalent to 10 percent of its economy.  U.S. and EU sanctions have a global reach, thwarting
financial transactions with Iran’s state entities and blocking
insurance for oil shipments to  Asia , the biggest market for
Iranian crude. A U.S. law that took effect June 28 threatens to
cut access to dollars for any foreign bank settling oil trades
with Iran. China,  Japan ,  India  and 17 other countries received
renewable 180-day waivers for reducing imports.  Iranian leaders repeatedly have said that they will reject
sanctions and international pressure that aims to force the
country to give up disputed elements of  Iran’s nuclear program .  “We aren’t happy with the sanctions, but when we are at a
crossroad between maintaining our country’s independence or
facing sanctions, our nation choses independence,” Foreign
Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said Aug. 1, according to
the state-run Mehr news agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  