-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-08-02T17:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is the text of European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  from his monthly news
conference in Frankfurt today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased to welcome
you to our press conference. We will now report on the outcome of
today’s meeting of the Governing Council, which was also attended
by the Commission Vice-President, Mr Rehn.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analyses, we
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged, following
the decrease of 25 basis points in July. As we said a month ago,
inflation should decline further in the course of 2012 and be
below two percent again in 2013.  Consistent with this picture, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remains subdued. Inflation expectations for
the euro area economy continue to be firmly anchored in line with
our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to, two
percent over the medium term.  At the same time, economic growth in the euro area remains
weak, with the ongoing tensions in financial markets and
heightened uncertainty weighing on confidence and sentiment. A
further intensification of financial market tensions has the
potential to affect the balance of risks for both growth and
inflation on the downside.  The Governing Council extensively discussed the policy
options to address the severe malfunctioning in the price
formation process in the bond markets of the euro area countries.  Exceptionally high risk premia are observed in government
bond prices in several countries and financial fragmentation
hinders the effective working of monetary policy. Risk premia
that are related to fears of the reversibility of the euro are
unacceptable, and they need to be addressed in a fundamental
manner. The euro is irreversible.  In order to create the fundamental conditions for such risk
premia to disappear, policy-makers in the euro area need to push
ahead with fiscal consolidation, structural reform and European
institution-building with great determination.  As implementation takes time and financial markets often
only adjust once success becomes clearly visible, governments
must stand ready to activate the EFSF/ESM in the  bond market  when
exceptional financial market circumstances and risks to financial
stability exist - with strict and effective conditionality in
line with the established guidelines.  The adherence of governments to their commitments and the
fulfillment by the EFSF/ESM of their role are necessary
conditions - not sufficient, necessary conditions. The Governing
Council, within its mandate to maintain price stability over the
medium term and in observance of its independence in determining
monetary policy, may undertake outright open market operations of
a size adequate to reach its objective.  In this context, the concerns of private investors about
seniority will be addressed. Furthermore, the Governing Council
may consider undertaking further non-standard monetary policy
measures according to what is required to repair monetary policy
transmission. Over the coming weeks, we will design the
appropriate modalities for such policy measures.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. On a quarterly basis, euro
area real GDP growth was flat in the first quarter of 2012,
following a decline of 0.3 percent in the previous quarter.
Economic indicators point to weak economic activity in the second
quarter of 2012 and at the beginning of the third quarter, in an
environment of heightened uncertainty.  Looking beyond the short term, we expect the euro area
economy to recover only very gradually, with growth momentum
being further dampened by a number of factors. In particular,
tensions in some euro area sovereign debt markets and their
impact on financing conditions, the process of balance sheet
adjustment in the financial and non-financial sectors and high
unemployment are expected to weigh on the underlying growth
momentum, which is also affected by the ongoing global slowdown.  The risks surrounding the economic outlook for the euro
area continue to be on the downside. They relate, in particular,
to the tensions in several euro area financial markets and their
potential spillover to the euro area real economy. Downside risks
also relate to possible renewed increases in energy prices over
the medium term.  Euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.4 percent in July
2012, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, unchanged from the
previous month. On the basis of current futures prices for oil,
inflation rates should decline further in the course of 2012 and
be below 2 percent again in 2013. Over the policy-relevant
horizon, in an environment of modest growth in the euro area and
well-anchored long-term inflation expectations, underlying price
pressures should remain moderate.  Risks to the outlook for price developments continue to be
broadly balanced over the medium term. Upside risks pertain to
further increases in indirect taxes, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation, and higher than expected energy prices over the
medium term.  The main downside risks relate to the impact of weaker than
expected growth in the euro area, in particular resulting from a
further intensification of financial market tensions. Such
intensification has the potential to affect the balance of risks
on the downside.  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion remained subdued. The annual growth rate of M3
stood at 3.2 percent in June 2012, slightly higher than the 3.1
percent observed in the previous month and close to the rate
observed at the end of the first quarter.  Overall, inflows into broad money in the second quarter
were weak. Annual growth in M1 increased further to 3.5 percent
in June, in line with the increased preference of investors for
liquid instruments in an environment of low  interest rates  and
high uncertainty.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector
(adjusted for loan sales and securitization) declined to 0.3
percent in June from 0.5 percent in May. As net redemptions of
loans to non-financial corporations and households were observed
in June, the annual growth rates for loans to both non-financial
corporations and households decreased further in June, to minus
0.3 percent and 1.1 percent respectively.  To a large extent, subdued loan growth reflects the current
cyclical situation, heightened  risk aversion  and the ongoing
adjustment in the balance sheets of households and enterprises,
all of which weigh on credit demand.  A considerable contribution of demand factors to weak MFI
loan growth is confirmed by the euro area bank lending survey for
the second quarter of 2012. This survey also shows that the net
tightening of banks’ credit standards at the euro area level was
broadly stable in the second quarter of 2012, as compared with
the previous quarter, for loans to both enterprises and
households.  Looking ahead, it is essential for banks to continue to
strengthen their resilience where this is needed. The soundness
of banks’ balance sheets will be a key factor in facilitating
both an appropriate provision of credit to the economy and the
normalization of all funding channels.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with  price stability  over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  While significant progress has been achieved with fiscal
consolidation over recent years, further decisive and urgent
steps need to be taken to improve competitiveness. From 2009 to
2011, euro area countries, on average, reduced the deficit-to-GDP
ratio by 2.3 percentage points, and the primary deficit improved
by about 2.5 percentage points.  Fiscal adjustment in the euro area is continuing in 2012,
and it is indeed crucial that efforts are maintained to restore
sound fiscal positions. At the same time, structural reforms are
as essential as fiscal consolidation efforts and the measures to
repair the financial sector.  Some progress has also been made in this area. For example,
unit labor costs and current account developments have started to
undergo a correction process in most of the countries strongly
affected by the crisis.  However, further reform measures need to be implemented
swiftly and decisively. Product market reforms to foster
competitiveness and the creation of efficient and flexible labor
markets are preconditions for the unwinding of the existing
imbalances and the achievement of robust, sustainable growth. It
is now crucial that  Member States  implement their country-
specific recommendations with determination.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: Okay, thank you. (Inaudible) and please let’s not
forget to present yourself and ask no more than two questions per
media. Thank you. First call, (inaudible), please.  QUESTION: I am Alexander Mario]with (inaudible) from  Italy .
I wonder if you have discussed a possible reduction in interest
rates and also a reduction in interest rates on deposits. And if
you own negative deposit rates.  DRAGHI: I didn’t say how many questions each one is allowed
to ask. Okay, we have discussed possible reductions in interest
rates. But the Governing Council, in its entirety, decided that
this was not the time and that’s it.  On the deposit - on the negative deposit rates, since many
of you may be asking this question, let me say and stop there
really that perhaps these are largely uncharged waters.  STAFF: Next question, (inaudible), please. Yes.  QUESTION: (Inaudible), be allowed two questions. First of
all, when you are talking about the question of seniority will be
addressed, presumably because bond purchases are kind of
counterproductive if it is not addressed beforehand. So
presumably we see the question of seniority be addressed before
bond purchases? Or is that a wrong assumption?  And the second question, a lot of talk in the past two days
about a grand master plan, a two pronged approach, how to
stabilize the bond markets. Among other things, one of the ideas
that has been floated today again in the (inaudible), that there
could be a secondary buying of bonds by the ECB combined with a
primary bond buying by the ESM or the EFSF, which is a bit odd
because the EFSF, of course, can’t buy  Spain  and Italy at the
moment. How much - give us an idea of how much truth is in this
story - is it one of these fairy tales that markets in general
sometimes love so much?  DRAGHI: The second one was so long, I forgot the first.  QUESTION: The seniority.  DRAGHI: Oh, the seniority, yes. Okay, let me reread the
passage of my introductory statement because that basically
answers your question. It says,  “The adherence of governments to
their commitments (in the fiscal reform, structural reforms and
so on)  and the fulfillment by the EFSF/ESM of their role are
necessary conditions for some actions on the ECB side.” So the
first thing is the governments have to go to the EFSF because, as
I said several times, the ECB cannot replace governments or
cannot replace the actions that other institutions have to do on
the fiscal side.  “The Governing Council within its mandate to maintain price
stability over the medium term and in observance of its
independence in determining monetary policy,” which means that
the goal of the EFSF is a necessary condition, but it is not a
sufficient condition because the monetary policy is independent,
“may undertake outright open market operations of a size adequate
to reach its objective. In this context, the concerns of private
investors about seniority will be addressed. Furthermore - ” The
rest is - so that basically gives you the answer to your
question.  I should say, over the coming weeks, we will devise, we
will design the appropriate modalities for such policy measures.
So many of the details will be worked out by the relevant
committees within the ECB.  STAFF: Second row, please. Back in the center, second row.
Right.  QUESTION: Yurhana Treet, Market News. I’ve got some
questions on how you would actually deal with the response that
you might buy.  Would you continue to sterilize all of those bonds? And
also you said you would buy as much as needed to reach an
objective. Would you actually publish that objective? Would you
announce a cap?  My second question is do you think that this will actually
be enough? Or do you think it might be wise to find a neutral way
to grant the ESM access to ECB liquidity operations?  And then, perhaps one last question -  DRAGHI: Already you asked four questions in one question.
So let me say that this thing - this concept - this guidance that
we’ve given to the committees of the ECB differs from the
previous program because that is your basically first question,
because we have explicit conditionality here. And as a necessary
condition, an adherence by governments and by euro area
governance to its commitments.  Second, there is full transparency by all the countries
where this will be undertaken, and about the amount.  And third, which is not something I said during the
introductory statement, this effort is going to be focused on the
shorter part of the yield curve, on the shorter part of the yield
curve. So it is really which will introduce discipline also on
the long part, but the effort of such will be focused on the
shorter part.  So it is an effort which I am calling like this, which is
very different from the previous SMP and it falls squarely in our
mandate. It basically carries - is going to be carried out in the
secondary market. And it doesn’t violate the provision of
monetary finance at all. It falls squarely amongst the
instruments of monetary policy.  And then as far as the rest you asked - you’ve asked, the
monetary committee and the market committee and the risk
committee will all together work and produce the - I’ll say all
the needed details that we want to take an explicit form of
decision. Okay, yes.  QUESTION: Yes.  DRAGHI: Then you asked about the ESM banking license. I
really - I must say I am a little surprised by the amount of
attention that this received in the recent press, the recent
public opinion following the statement.  Okay, but I mean after all, I did say at least twice that
the present design of the ESM doesn’t allow not the issue - let
me step back, it is not up to us to give a banking license. It is
up the government. It is up to us to decide whether the ESM, even
with a banking license, can actually be a suitable counter party
eligible for being financed.  And I did say at least twice in the press conference, but
also on other occasions, that the current design of the ESM does
not allow to be recognized the suitable counter party. And we
have a legal opinion of the ECB issued way back in February on
this, which is, by the way, I think it has been published if I am
not mistaken. So you can always look at that. So that is the ECB
position on this.  STAFF: Okay, (inaudible) second row. The second row, yes.  QUESTION: (Inaudible). Just a question on Spain. I would
like to know if the Council discussed the recent developments in
Spain and maybe (inaudible) progress is made in Spain with its
newest austerity measures.  And another question is whether your words regarding the
actualization of the EFSF and the ESM also are in some way
intended to, well, if need be, the current situation with Spain
is in line with the ECB or whether actually the possibility of
asking further help has been discussed and would be welcomed by
the ECB.  DRAGHI: Look, no, we didn’t discuss the specific country
situation. And it is true that I think Spain, like other
countries, have achieved significant progress on a variety of
problems, including fiscal consolidation. It is up to the
relevant countries to decide whether they need and they want the
help of the EFSF. Thank you  STAFF: Okay, your neighbor on the other side in the second
row. Yes.  QUESTION: This is Kianna Underwood, Bloomberg News. Mr.
Draghi, the measures you announced, do you have the full support
of the Governing Council for that? I am particularly - I am
interested in the position of the Bundesbank and Mr. Weidmann.
You said that the size would be adequate. Can you tell me if that
means the purchases will be unlimited, or whether you will
actually have a limit in mind?  Coming back to the sterilization, I just want to clarify,
am I understanding you correctly that you are considering not
sterilizing the purchases?  And then I have a question on the ESM as well. You are
insisting that in the current design, the ESM cannot be a bank
index of ECB refinancing operations. Do them envision a scenario
where the ESM is changed into an institution that would actually
be able to comply with what is required? And I am thinking about
the EIB especially. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Okay, I will start from the last question. I would
say in the current design, that is what we have today. What we
have today, we have a legal opinion by the ECB issued five months
ago, if I am not mistaken, saying that, no, it is not suitable as
a counter party.  On the sterilization, no, I don’t - you shouldn’t assume
that we are not going to sterilize or won’t sterilize. This is
exactly one of the dimensions. You have to understand, these
operations are complex in the FX markets in a variety of ways. So
the committees, the relevant committees, will have to work and
tell us exactly what is right and what is not right.  So it is early to say whether they are going to be
sterilized or not sterilized. We remain assured that we will be
acting within our mandate that is to preserve price stability in
the medium-term for the euro area. That is always to be taken
into account.  Second - third thing, unlimited or limited, we don’t know.
It just - basically, the statement - the introductory statement,
and I’m really grateful to the governing country for this,
endorses the remarks that I made in  London  about the size of
these measures that need to be adequate to reach their
objectives.  And fourth, the endorsement to do whatever it takes -
again, for using the same words - whatever it takes to preserve
the euro as a stable currency has been unanimous. But it’s clear
and it’s known that Mr. Weidmann and the Bundesbank, although we
are here in the personal capacity, we should never forget that
they have their reservations about programs that you see (ph)
buying bonds.  So the idea is now we have given a guidance. The monetary -
the money policy committee, the risk committee and the market
committee will work on this guidance, and then will take a final
decision where the count - the votes will be counted. So far,
that’s the - I think that’s a fair representation of our
discussion today. Thank you.  STAFF: (Inaudible) please (inaudible).  QUESTION: Eva Kuhnen, Reuters. Mr. Draghi, the markets
don’t seem to be very impressed. So when you said last week you
do whatever -  DRAGHI: The market is impressed or was impressed or is not
impressed. I didn’t understand. (Inaudible) impressed. You are -
you are reading into action, into - okay.  QUESTION: It does not seem to be very impressed.  DRAGHI :Oh, doesn’t seem to be very impressed.  QUESTION: So when you said - when you said last week you
would do whatever it takes to save the euro, what exactly did you
have in mind? And you mentioned earlier that you did discuss
other options. Could you maybe say what else you discussed?  DRAGHI: We - the word - the word is measures. Whatever it
takes means two things. It means the list of measures. All the
measures that are required, and it means that they are size to be
adequate to reach their objectives. And so we are going - the
various committee will now review the policy - no standard (ph)
policy options and then will remit and will decide what to do.  But you see, there is no - there is not yet one country
that has asked the EFSF to - to lead (ph). So are you ready to
act now? Even if we were ready to act now, it wouldn’t be the
ground for doing so. What we have expressed now is guidance, and
it’s a strong guidance about strong measures that will be
completed in their details in the coming weeks.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE).  DRAGHI: The other options? There is no need to be specific.
If you go back to the various LTROs that we’ve done, there is
also a discussion about the collateral framework that is foreseen
(ph) in September. There is a list of various options, but - that
you can partially find in previous press conferences or in the
ECB bulletin. They will be studied, explored, reviewed and
utilized possibly if needed for a formal decision.  STAFF: (Inaudible).  QUESTION: Claudio Fellani (ph) from (inaudible). My
question is - I have only one question, but it’s a long and I
apologize in advance. The LIBOR scandal have provoked an outcry -  DRAGHI: (OFF-MIKE).  QUESTION: LIBOR, as we say in Italy, has provoked an outcry
for separating the banks. Tax payers don’t want to pay any cent
more to bail out banks, which not only gamble, but which also rig
the bets. In Britain, there is a real section (ph) calling for
real, full banking separation a la Glass-Steagall, including the
central bank. In the  United States , there are already more than
80 congressmen who have signed a draft bill for a reintroduction
of Glass-Steagall, and even German Finance Minister Schauble said
this week he would not oppose structural reform.  Now since you, Mr, Draghi, are personally associated with
the legislation which in Italy lifted the old banking separation
regime, as we say (inaudible) the wisdom of (inaudible). Do you
feel like joining  Sandy Weill , the architect of the repeal of
Glass-Steagall in the United States, in saying we made a mistake,
we should go back to the full separation between commercial and
investment banks? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well if you actually were speaking apples with
apples, I would say so, but you’re actually mixing pears with
apples. The legislation to which you refer had nothing to do with
the current discussion. We didn’t - we didn’t have investment
banks that should be merged with commercial banks in Italy at
that time. The only separation we had was between banks that
could only do short term and banks that could only do long term.  And the biggest - the biggest advance that we made in the
early ‘90s was basically tell banks that they could do both. And
so the issue was not even considered at that time. And the only
investment we had, which was Mediobanca at the time, stayed what
it was, an investment bank. So the issue didn’t present itself.
Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor please, Brian Blaxton (ph). Okay,
afterwards. Yes, go ahead and present yourself.  QUESTION: (Inaudible), Financial Times. So my first
question concerns how you go about measuring the degree to which
the premier reflect convertibility risk. Now, is this the case
that you think that it’s several percentage points worth of the
spreads that reflect these risks, or is it something less
significant than that? And my second question is were the other
members of the governing council aware that you were going to
make the remarks that you did last week about taking whatever
action it takes before you made them?  DRAGHI: Well, let me - rather than respond to you on how we
measure that - this  risk premium  and so on, which will also be
the task of the committee’s, let me tell you that our greatest
concern is with financial market fragmentation rather than
assessing exactly the figure - a figure. And let me go through
the various symptoms of financial market fragmentation that we
have reviewed today in our governing council discussion.  If you look at money markets, the share of cross-border
money market loans has decreased. It was 60 percent until mid
2011. It’s now 40 percent, and vice versa for the share of
domestic money market loans. The non-domestic interbank deposits
are at the lowest level since the beginning of 2008 for several
countries. The increasing concentration of recourse to euro
system providing operations in some countries is a further
illustration of this segmentation.  The same use of - when you look at what sort of collateral
banks present for their financing with ECB, there is definitely a
significant increase in domestic collateral. There is a high
share of domestic use of domestic buyers by domestic - of home
buyers by - by investors. And it’s also - which in a sense
reflects the use of self-originated marketable assets as a
collateral.  The share of cross-border use of collateral within the euro
area stands at around 20 percent today compared with 50 percent
in 2006. There is a big divergence in general collateral repo
rates between periphery and euro area sovereigns that started in
late 2011. And we can go on with other signs of monetary
fragmentation as far as bank funding is concerned, as far as
sovereign bond markets and so on and so forth. We (inaudible) all
the analysis are at your disposal if you are interested. So that
is what we have to - we have to overcome, we have to repair, we
have to change.  As far as my remarks in London, there is not one word of
these remarks that had not been discussed in the governing - in
the previous governing councils. So there has not been one word
of these remarks that surprised my colleagues. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor please, (inaudible).  QUESTION: Brian Blackstone with The Wall Street Journal.
Last month when the ECB met, you said there wasn’t even a
discussion of non-standard measures, and now you’re unveiling
these objectives, these intentions. What happened in the last
month? The crisis has had its ups and downs for the last two
years. Was there anything specific that happened in the last
month that frightened you?  And secondly, would the ECB consider buying private sector
assets outside of just covered bonds, perhaps corporate loans,
unsecured bank bonds? That’s not one of the tools that you’ve
used in the past, but is this one of the options that you’ll be
considering in the next few weeks? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, there wasn’t any specific instance that led
us to - to have the discussion we had today. I wouldn’t point out
to one single episode, but certainly one thing - if one really
wants to - one thing was the sudden increase in the shorter part
of the yield curve for several countries in the euro area, which
for people who are - who know the markets is usually ominous.  But that was one sign which - but I wouldn’t point out only
to that symptom only, because there were other symptoms of market
fragmentation which tended to worsen the situation. So it’s not
really very much a reaction to a specific thing that, as you
said, might have terrified us, because we usually don’t act under
terror, but under - under normal, cool analysis of facts. What
was the other - your other question?  QUESTION: The private sector -  DRAGHI: No, there is reason to be specific as far as
further non-standard measures are concerned. We - because we -
basically the other part of the guidance is that the relevant
committees should examine the other possible measures.  STAFF: The fourth row please now. The two questioners. Yes.  QUESTION: (Inaudible) it’s not really clear to me
concerning the decision on the bond purchases the ECB may
trigger. Was the decision anonymous or not? And if yes, maybe
(inaudible).  DRAGHI: It was not a decision. It was a guidance, and it
was a determined guidance for the committees to design, as the
statement says, design the appropriate modalities for such policy
measures. The voting was, as I said, was basically unanimous with
one - with one reservation, with one position that reserved
itself. And I responded to this question before.  QUESTION: Given the guidance, your detail (ph) -  DRAGHI: It says may undertake. You see, it’s very important
to read carefully these words. It says the governing council may
undertake outright open market operations of a size. So the
governing council, if the necessary and sufficient conditions in
its total independence of monetary policy operations, may decide
to do certain things if these conditions are satisfied. This -
this - I would call it this framework was endorsed by all the
governing council members with one - with one exception.  QUESTION: So maybe -  DRAGHI: Okay. Second question.  QUESTION: Second question, related to bonds. I guess  Greece 
bonds are maturing this month. Could you maybe actualize what you
said in February that the ECB is ready to abandon the
(inaudible).  DRAGHI: I’m sorry. I was not laughing at you. Just - go
ahead. No, I understand.  QUESTION: So you said in February without violating the
monetary financing of states that the ECB could have been done
(ph) the profits on bonds and distribute to the central banks in
percentage of the capital, and then the states could maybe use
this money for - for their needs or could support Greece or
something. So what can you say today, the perspective of this
maturity of bonds regarding Greece, for example?  DRAGHI: Well, the decision that we’ve taken - so we
earmarked these profits for distribution to the national central
banks with a view to further redistributing them to their
national governments, which could use them for Greece. That was
the sequencing. As far as the future - you asked about future
bonds coming do. We have to wait for the results of the troika
visit in Greece. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor, and then the fifth row afterwards.  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, Derek Scally from the Irish Times. A
popular interpretation of your London remarks was that Mr. Draghi
is now resigning - has resigned to rushing in where politicians
fear to tread. Were they wrong in their interpretation?  And secondly, on the Irish bank debt issue, a German news
magazine paraphrased remarks you made at a dinner where you said
that one cannot always answer such questions, Irish banking debt,
through purely legal discussion. Without asking you to break the
confidence of a dinner table discussion, how do you believe a
question like the Irish bank debt issue can be answered to
everyone’s satisfaction, if not in purely legal terms? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, I am sorry to say, but these words were not
true. The reporting was incorrect. And I think we’ve sent - or we
are about to send, have been asked to send a written response to
their account because it was not correct.  So, on other thing you said, the other question was - I’m
sorry, was about the popular interpretation of my remarks in
London.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) that the - on bond buying. The
expectation because of the bond buying was that Mr. Draghi’s ECB
is now resigned to stepping in where politicians fear to tread.  DRAGHI: Well, it’s a nice sentence but it’s not clear me if
- it might have - first of all, it’s very hard. Going beyond our
mandate, no. The answer is no. I was - if you find - if you get
the transcript of these - of my speech in London, you find the
words within our mandate at least, I don’t know, three, four,
five times. So - and within our mandate, within our primary
mandate of maintaining price stability over the medium term, this
has been repeated on and on and on. So it’s - but certainly it is
within our mandate to do whatever is in our power to preserve the
euro as a stable currency. Thank you.  STAFF: Okay. The row behind with the yellow tie. Yes,
please.  QUESTION: Marco (inaudible). Today an important German
newspaper had the headline south European countries are hoping
(ph) in Draghi. North Europeans are afraid of him. I’m not
expecting you to comment  on headline of course, but given also
this reservation in the vote (ph) of today, I’m just wondering if
you are worried that this is the perception in the public opinion
and that can be a problem in the future.  DRAGHI: Thank you. I, frankly, if you ask myself, I don’t
think I can - I’m kind of - I, frankly, I think, one, not me but
the whole governing council should actually do the right things.
Whether they inspire hopes or fear has to do more with, I’ll say,
psychoanalysis than with economics. So the - what dictates the
governing council deliberations is cool-minded analysis of the
facts. Thank you.  STAFF: The right hand block, third row please. Yes?  QUESTION: Ian Traynor from the Guardian. Mr. Draghi, Prime
Minister Monti at the moment is touring  Europe  with a fairly
consistent and straightforward message, which is that basically
the eurozone has to do something to bring down the costs of
Italian borrowing. Would it be right to conclude from what you
have been saying that in fact neither the ECB nor either of the
two bailout funds can operate at all in the bond markets to
affect that unless Mr. Monti requests a program and accepts a
conditionality that has traditionally gone with these programs?  DRAGHI: Yeah. I think it’s right. I think that’s exactly
the right way of reading this. It says - I’ll re-read it. The
adherence of governments to their commitments and the fulfillment
of the EFSF, ESM in their role are necessary conditions. Then the
governing council within its mandate and in observance of its
independence in monetary policy may undertake, and so on and so
forth. So it’s exactly the right way to read it. Thank you.  STAFF: The left hand block, please, second row.  QUESTION: (Inaudible). Mr. Draghi, maybe I missed it, but
can you say something about a time schedule? You said you’d give
a guidance, but when do we get results? And the second question
about inflation. You repeated - you repeated your assessment that
inflation will come down in 2013. In recent weeks, we see some
changes in  oil prices . They are going up again. Commodity prices
are going up. The euro is weakening, which drives input prices.
We see higher wages in  Germany . How big is the probability that
the ECB will be wrong again on this question?  And can I ask a question of the vice president? Because
there was an - I think it was an Italian newspaper today that
reported that you are skeptical about bond purchases by the ECB.
Maybe you can just comment on that. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, the first question is in a sense easy to
answer. The when. When is when countries will be - governments
will be - actually have fulfilled the necessary conditions,
namely undertake fiscal, structural reforms applied to the EFSF
with the right conditionality. And at that point, we may act if
needed along the lines that had been illustrated in this - in
this conversation I’m having with you.  On the second point about inflation, inflation is - is - is
decreasing actually, as I said last time. And I repeated, it’s
decreasing to some extent faster than expected. But there are
some risks, both downside and upside. The upside risks are food
prices are - don’t seem to be a major risk today for the euro
area inflation for the reason that, first of all, they are viewed
- so far they are viewed as one-time shocks.  Second, much of the food that is consumed in the euro area
is produced by the euro area, and it - therefore it depends very
much on agricultural prices. To some extent, there is not an
immediate connection between what happens - the world price level
and the agricultural prices. And so the inflationary - potential
inflationary consequence of higher food prices are, at this time
at least, are not viewed as likely or significant.  Then you have energy. And energy and certainly and the
depreciation of the euro have pushed up, but as you see so far,
we don’t see really any change in our - in what’s become our
base-line scenario, namely of an inflation which goes at about 2
percent by the end of this year, and may go below 2 percent next
year or even before the next year. So that’s the - but I want to
stress with respect to this that the ECB remains the guardian of
price stability. The ECB remains the guardian of price stability.
And that remains its - its - its mandate.  Vitor, are you skeptical about bond purchases?  CONSTANCIO: I don’t know from what place this rumor could
arise. I never spoke about the issue outside our own meetings,
and I’m not going to do it now to answer you. I will just point
out that as the president answered before, today this was
approved unanimous with one exception, and it was not me.  STAFF: Okay. The same block, please, row number five.  QUESTION: Thank you. Mark (inaudible). First question is
did you present your plan to heads of state before discussing it
in the governing council or after discussing it, which would mean
today of course? And the second question, on your - on - on your
statement that you’re going to target short - the short end of
the yield curve, why doing that? Because one would assume that if
you target the longer end this might alleviate pressures for long
term loans in the countries you’re targeting. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Yeah. The first question is no, we don’t plan any
presentation of our monetary policy discussions to the heads of
state. It’s not - it’s not conceived, it’s not thought, it’s not
been discussed. It’s kind of a - so it’s - and this basically is
because we are proud of our own independence, but also because
maybe they’re not even interested in knowing it. I don’t know.
But - but the point is basically we are independent and we don’t
foresee presentations to the heads of state of our monetary
policy measures.  The second point is why do we focus on the shorter part -
the shorter time of the - the shorter - on the short end of the
yield curve? Well, the main reason is that that falls squarely in
- in the list of the monetary - the classical monetary policy
instruments. Where in the short term is the spectrum, the more is
close to money market operations.  But basically even right now we are already - we’re
currently operating on maturies which may - with the LTRO of
course, they extend to three years. But on normal operations,
they go between six months, nine months, a year. So from this
viewpoint, we wanted to in a sense restrict this to being
monetary policy, classical monetary policy.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE).  DRAGHI: No. We - we - no. I gave - today I gave you just a
general indication, and also I gave you in a sense the philosophy
behind this decision. But as far as the details and the analytics
of this, as I said before, we have to wait for the work of the
relevant committees.  STAFF: The block in the middle row, second row, please.
Yeah.  QUESTION: (Inaudible). Mr. Draghi -  DRAGHI: I’m sorry, which -  QUESTION: (Inaudible). Mr. Draghi, I have the slight
feeling that you are a bit rolling (ph) back today compared with
your words in London. After you have - did this speech in London,
there was a storm all over Europe in the media and in the
markets. Was there any critic (ph) in the ECB concert (ph) today
about the timing of your words in London? Because today you said
that it will take some weeks until the committees will have
worked out the details. Is it - was it necessary to do this
speech at that time in London?  DRAGHI: Have you read the speech? No. Well then, if you
have read it, there is no reference whatsoever to a bond buying
program. And there was no criticism whatsoever in the governing
council meeting, period.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE).  DRAGHI: I can’t - I can’t make what the media write, as you
know very well by the way. And you certainly wouldn’t want me to
tell you what to write, but -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE).  DRAGHI: No, no, no, no, no. Read the speech. The speech
says - it doesn’t say anything about timing, bond buying
programs, shorter term. There is nothing of that. The speech was
simply - and if you want to know what is the philosophy, because
certainly the tone was strong in that speech, and the - I would
say the - the stance behind the speech was an affirmation that
the euro area is a strong place in the world and that the euro is
a strong currency, and it’s irreversible.  That is the substance, the zest of the speech I gave in
London. And - and so - and of course, everything within our
mandate, but everything that is adequate to reach the objectives.
So this was clearly stated in London and it had some consequences
because, after all, everybody wants to read what they want. And -
and that’s it.  And today we are not rolling back, in fact. If I may say
this, there was an endorsement by the governing council of the
speech, and certainly of the tone of the speech. And you find
this endorsement in the statement - in the statement. You can
actually see there are similar words for certain things. Thank
you.  STAFF: The first row, please. Yeah.  QUESTION: (Inaudible). I have many questions, but - but -  STAFF: Just two. Just two.  QUESTION: Just two. About the timing. If I understand (ph),
well, I don’t know. So before government must move, must activate
the EFSF and ESM in the bond market and then the ECB may be - is
that the time, or together (inaudible) before the government and
after the ECB or not?  The second, what is the meaning - real meaning that euro is
irreversible? What’s the meaning? We will - is -  DRAGHI: On the first point, the first point is actually -
is actually very important. Because we want to repair monetary
policy transmission channels. And we clearly see a risk, and I’ll
talk about this, a convertibility premium in some interest rates.  But we also know, and the governing council knows, that
monetary policy will not be enough to achieve these objectives
unless there is action by the governments. If there are
substantial and continuing disequilibria and imbalances in the
current accounts, in fiscal deficits, in prices, in
competitiveness, monetary policy cannot fill this - this vacuum,
this lack of action. And so that’s why conditionality is
essential.  And - but the counterparty in this conditionality is going
to be the EFSF. So action by the governments and by the euro area
level is as essential for repairing monetary policy transmission
channels as it is appropriate action on our side. That is the
reason for having this conditionality. That’s one thing.  What is the meaning of irreversibility? Irreversibility
means that it cannot be reverted, so you don’t go back to the
lira or to the drachma or to whatever. That’s just - what’s what
it means. So it stays. It stays. It stays. It’s pointless to bet
against the euro. It’s pointless to go short on the euro. That
was the message. It’s pointless because the euro will stay, and
it’s going to be irreversible.  STAFF: Let’s take the two last questions. Yes, in this
block, the - yeah. The two questioners.  QUESTION: Jack Ewing from the International Herald Tribune
and  New York  Times. I think you said you’re going to address this
in your early (ph) issue. I’m trying to think of how you might do
that without just taking losses on your existing holdings of
Greek bonds. Am I wrong about that? Is there some other
alternative?  And secondly, I think you said you were going to be
disclosing the size and the countries of bond purchases. Will you
also be disclosing what you’ve done already, and could you even
maybe give us some amounts right now? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. What - I’m not sure I understand the
last part. We have disclosed how much we bought with the S&P. You
say we disclosed - yeah. Oh, sure. At the time - when - when all
this will be settled, there will be full disclosure. This I think
is the best policy option. But we have to sort of have all the
pieces in place on our - on our table. That’s - that’s one thing.  On the second thing, again, I read - I read this statement.
It says it may undertake outright open market operations of a
size adequate to reach its objective. In this context, in this
context, the concerns of private investors about seniority will
be addressed. Thank you.  STAFF: Your neighbor behind, please?  QUESTION: Klaus (inaudible) Television. Mr. President, I
have to come back to your remarks in London last week. I’m a bit
surprised. If I understand you right, you’re arguing that markets
and the media have misinterpreted your remarks there, at least to
a - at least to a certain extent.  I’m surprised that you say this because if you do these
remarks in London, not anywhere but in London, shouldn’t you
expect that the markets exactly interpret in the way they did,
and wouldn’t it be perhaps appropriate to have been (ph) a bit
more careful there? Thank you.  DRAGHI: No, it would not be actually. I like this remarks
very much. And as you know, they came - they came out very, very
well. And there was no - no reason to absolutely, and they were
not misinterpreted. Simply they were actually - markets took
their actions based on their expectations following these
remarks.  That’s what happened, and these expectations are what they
are. And today we had a meeting and we discussed and we have
given guidance which probably will concretize in certain
decisions that will be taken. So absolutely, no. I’m actually
quite happy about these remarks. Thank you.  STAFF: Thank you. Thanks a lot.  SOURCE:  European Central Bank   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Tanzi in Washington at 
 atanzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  