-- Euro Drops Versus Most Major Peers as ECB Disappoints Investors
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-02T21:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/euro-rises-against-dollar-yen-as-ecb-keeps-key-rate-unchanged.html
The euro slid against the yen and the
dollar after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed
to offer sufficient measures to curb the region’s debt crisis.  The shared currency fell versus most major peers after
Draghi said Germany’s Bundesbank has reservations about his plan
to buy bonds, which remains to be fleshed out. The pound gained
for the first time in three days versus the euro after the  Bank
of England  kept its bond-buying program and interest rate
unchanged. The dollar rose before data tomorrow that may show
the U.S. unemployment rate stayed above 8 percent last month.  “The market was looking for a big bazooka from Draghi, and
they were disappointed by the lack of a coherent plan,” said
 Andrew Wilkinson , chief economic strategist at Miller Tabak &
Co. in  New York . “A timetable and a start date would comprise
meat on the bones. The market wanted a plan and they got a
framework, and the reaction was ultra-negative.”  The euro dropped 0.6 percent to 95.30 yen at 5 p.m. in New
York after rising as much as 1.1 percent. The single currency
fell 0.4 percent to $1.2180 after climbing 1.5 percent to
$1.2405, the highest level since July 5. The dollar declined 0.3
percent to 78.24 yen.  The 17-nation currency erased its advance against the
greenback as Draghi spoke to reporters in Frankfurt after the
ECB’s policy decision. It slid almost 3 cents from today’s high
to its low of $1.2134, the biggest trading range for the
 currency pair  since Nov. 30, when the  Federal Reserve  and five
other central banks cut the cost of emergency dollar funding for
European banks in response to the continent’s debt crisis.  ‘Nothing Today’  ECB officials are working on a plan to buy bonds in
sufficient quantities to ease Europe’s fiscal turmoil, Draghi
said. Details will be released in coming weeks, he told
reporters at a news conference in Frankfurt.  “The market expected to be disappointed, but even so, the
bare minimum we need is for the ECB to reactivate the securities
market program and buy bonds,” said Kit Juckes, head of
foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA in  London .
“While they’ve indicated they’ll do it at some point, they are
doing nothing today, which is even less than was necessary to
calm a market that is so pessimistic.”  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.7 percent, while the
 yield  on the 10-year Treasury decreased five basis points, or
0.05 percentage point, to 1.48 percent as investors seeking
safety bought  U.S. government debt .  The euro strengthened in earlier trading as the ECB kept
its benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent at a policy meeting
today, in line with the forecast of 51 of 55 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Four predicted a reduction to 0.5 percent.  U.S. Jobs  The U.S. currency gained against most major counterparts as
a report showed initial claims for  unemployment benefits 
increased last week, rising by 8,000 to 365,000. U.S. nonfarm
payrolls added 100,000 jobs last month, while the jobless rate
remained at 8.2 percent, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast before the Labor Department reports the data tomorrow.
The  unemployment rate  has stayed above 8 percent for 41
consecutive months.  The Fed declined at a meeting this week to boost monetary
stimulus, while indicating a sluggish economy may prompt further
steps to boost growth.  The dollar gained 0.5 percent in the past week against
nine-developed nation counterparts as measured by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro fell 0.8 percent, while
the pound slid 1.2 percent.  Pound Gains  Sterling rose against the euro today after the U.K.
Monetary Policy Committee maintained its bond-buying program at
375 billion pounds ($582 billion) and left  interest rates  at a
record-low 0.5 percent, in line with the median forecasts in
Bloomberg surveys.  The pound gained 0.2 percent to 78.51 pence per euro, after
falling 0.5 percent earlier. The U.K. currency declined 0.1
percent to $1.5515.  New Zealand’s dollar rose against all its major after milk
powder prices for October delivery increased 4.5 percent,
according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra Cooperative
Group Ltd.’s GlobalDairyTrade website. Auckland-based Fonterra
accounts for about 40 percent of the global trade in dairy
products.  The currency, known as the kiwi, added 0.3 percent to 81.02
U.S. cents. It was little changed at 63.39 yen.  Australian Dollar  Australia ’s dollar was little changed versus the dollar as
risk appetite slid. It rallied earlier after reports showed
improvement in retail sales and trade, boosting prospects the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will leave rates unchanged at a
meeting next week.  Traders are betting the RBA will reduce the benchmark
lending rate by 73 basis points in the next 12 months, according
to a Credit Suisse Index based on overnight swaps.  The Aussie dollar traded at $1.0465 after rising earlier as
much as 1.1 percent to $1.0580, the highest level since March
20. It fell 0.2 percent to 81.88 yen.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars rose to record highs
against the euro as the shared currency tumbled. The Aussie
climbed to A$1.1606, and the kiwi advanced to NZ$1.4995.  “The Aussie and the kiwi are two currencies that seem to
be standing apart from the general risk-on and risk-off
sentiment around the ECB and Fed statements,” said Ravi Bharadwaj, a market analyst in  Washington  at Western Union
Business Solutions, a unit of  Western Union Co. (WU)  “The Aussie’s
most recent reports on retail sales, as well as  trade balance ,
give the  Reserve Bank of Australia  a little more time to
understand the direction of the Australian economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  