-- European Stocks Decline as Draghi’s Comments Disappoint
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-08-02T16:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/european-stock-futures-little-changed-before-ecb-decision.html
European stocks  declined, erasing
earlier gains, as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
comments disappointed investors seeking more definitive measures
to stimulate the region’s economy.  Banks pulled the index lower, with Banco Santander SA and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  losing at least 5 percent each.  Veolia
Environnement SA (VIE)  plummeted 12 percent after the French utility
said the economy in Italy and France hurt first-half results.
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW)  rose 2.3 percent after earnings beat estimates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  fell 1.3 percent to 259.28 at
the close of trade. The gauge has still rallied 3.6 percent
since Draghi promised on July 26 to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro. The volume of shares changing hands in
companies listed on the index was 20 percent higher than the
average of the last 30 days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The markets were expecting too much from the meeting and
were disappointed,” said  Peter Dixon , global equities economist
at Commerzbank AG in London. “There were some ideas brought
forward by Draghi today, but they were sketchy and light on
detail, while the markets were looking for a concrete plan.”  Draghi signaled that the ECB will join forces with
governments to buy sovereign bonds. Still, he didn’t give
details on how such a program would work, saying that they will
be fleshed out in coming weeks.  Bond yields that throw into question the future of the euro
are “unacceptable” and “need to be addressed in a fundamental
manner,” he also said at a press conference in Frankfurt today
after the ECB kept the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 0.75
percent.  German Outlook  Germany retained a stable outlook for its top  credit
rating ,  Standard & Poor’s  said in a statement today, after
Moody’s Investors Service warned last week that the nation’s Aaa
grade was at risk.  The  Bank of England  maintained its current bond-buying
program today as policy makers wait to assess the impact of the
latest stimulus and their new lending program to end the
recession. The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee held the
quantitative-easing target at 375 billion pounds ($582 billion),
as forecast by all but one of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. It also kept the key interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent.  In the U.S., central bankers led by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  concluded their two-day meeting
yesterday saying they “will provide additional accommodation as
needed” to bolster the expansion. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  also said it will “closely monitor” economic data
and financial developments.  Stocks Rally  European stocks have rallied 11 percent from this year’s
low on June 4 as policy makers pledged to preserve the euro and
central banks from Europe to China eased monetary policy to
boost economic growth.  National benchmark indexes fell in 15 of the 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slid 0.9
percent, France’s CAC 40 Index declined 2.7 percent and
Germany’s DAX Index retreated 2.2 percent.  An index of banking shares was the  worst-performing 
industry group on the Stoxx 600.  Santander (SAN)  plunged 6.7 percent to 4.63 euros and Deutsche
Bank slid 5.3 percent to 23.21 euros.  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  slumped
8 percent to 3.28 euros.  Veolia Sinks  Veolia plunged 12 percent to 8.15 euros, the biggest drop
in a year. First-half results were hurt by writedowns in Italy,
the economic slowdown and a “contractual erosion” at Veolia’s
water division in France, the Paris-based company said. Veolia
plans to sell 5 billion euros of assets and reduce investment by
500 million euros this year and next.  “The deterioration of the economic environment, in
particular in Italy and in France,” weighed on the company’s
results,” Chief Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said in a
statement. “In this difficult context, we have decided to
increase our cost reduction efforts and reduce investments.”  D.E Master Blenders 1753 (DE) , the beverage business spun off
from the former Sara Lee Corp., tumbled 5.6 percent to 8.95
euros after saying it will restate earnings because of
accounting irregularities and tax provisions at its Brazilian
operations.  The adjustments will reduce shareholders equity by as much
as 95 million euros and its 2012 net result by about 55 million
euros, the company said late yesterday.  Deutsche Post  Deutsche Post, the world’s biggest carrier of air and sea
freight by volume, advanced 2.3 percent to 15.02 euros after it
posted earnings before interest and taxes of 543 million euros,
down from 562 million euros a year earlier. Earnings exceeded
the 491.1 million-euro average  estimate  of 11 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.’s largest publicly traded owner of
industrial properties, rallied 4.9 percent to 238 pence after
saying first-half results were “solid” and it is confident of
maintaining current dividend levels.  Societe Bic SA (BB)  rose 4.9 percent to 86.54 euros, the most
since April, after the French manufacturer of pens and pencils
said second-quarter operating income jumped 28 percent to 119.1
million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  