-- Euro-Area Producer-Price Inflation Slowed in June on Energy
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-02T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/euro-area-producer-price-inflation-slowed-in-june-on-energy.html
Euro-area  producer-price inflation 
slowed for a ninth straight month in June, adding to sings of
easing cost pressures as the region’s economic slump deepens.  Factory-gate prices  in the 17-nation euro region rose 1.8
percent from a year earlier, the weakest annual gain since March
2010, after rising 2.3 percent in May, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a gain of 1.9 percent, the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. Prices fell 0.5 percent in the
month.  European companies are cutting costs and eliminating jobs
to weather an economic slowdown that has forced at least six
nations into recession. With governments struggling to contain
the fiscal crisis, European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi 
pledged ahead of today’s rate decision to do whatever is needed
to preserve the single currency.  “Underlying inflation pressures across the euro zone look
set to be contained by weakened economic activity and high and
rising unemployment,”  Howard Archer , chief European economist
at IHS Global Insight, said in an e-mailed note before today’s
report. “While we don’t expect the ECB to cut interest rates
again as soon as their August policy meeting, we believe such a
move is highly likely in September or October.”  In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy, prices rose 1.6
percent from a year earlier, after increasing 2.1 percent in the
previous month, today’s data showed. France, Spain and Italy all
reported slowing price growth.  Energy costs on the producer level advanced 4.8 percent in
June from a year earlier after rising 6.3 percent in the
previous month, the report showed. Annual price growth of
intermediate goods was 0.1 percent, down from 0.5 percent, and
costs of capital goods rose 1.1 percent.  The ECB, which last month cut its  benchmark rate  to 0.75
percent, a record, will announce its decision at 1:45 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , with Draghi holding a briefing 45 minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  