-- Ex-Diamondback Manager Gets Probation in Insider Case
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-02T23:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ex-diamondback-manager-gets-probation-in-insider-case.html
Ex-Diamondback Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager Anthony Scolaro was sentenced to three years
of probation for participating in an  insider-trading  scheme with
a former Galleon Group LLC fund manager.  Scolaro provided “substantial assistance” to the
government in a probe of hedge-fund insider trading, including
by making at least 43 calls that were monitored by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps
said today at a hearing in Manhattan federal court.  Scolaro pleaded guilty in November 2010 to  securities fraud 
and conspiracy in connection with trading on confidential tips
from Galleon fund manager Franz Tudor about TPG Capital’s 2008
acquisition of Axcan Pharma Inc. He began cooperating with the
government shortly after he was approached by FBI agents.  “At the end of the day, this is a crime motivated by
avarice and calculation,” U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley
said. The judge ordered Scolaro to pay $275,890 in fines and
forfeiture.  A Diamondback spokesman,  Steve Bruce , said in a statement
that the firm is “disappointed that Scolaro did not apologize
to Diamondback’s investors, whose trust he abused in committing
his crimes.”  Diamondback hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing in the
case.  At the hearing today, Apps said Scolaro’s recordings
furthered many investigations, including a probe into  hedge
funds  using expert-networking firms for insider trading.  Scolaro told the judge before his sentencing that he made
“a terrible mistake in judgment.”  “I humbly apologize to God,” as well as his family and
colleagues, he said. “This is not the example I hoped to set
for my children.”  The case is U.S. v.  Scolaro, 11-cr-429, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  