-- Ex-Merrill Lynch Brokers’ Squawk-Box Conviction Reversed
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-08-02T18:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ex-merrill-lynch-broker-s-squawk-box-conviction-reversed.html
Former brokers at Merrill Lynch &
Co.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. won a
reversal of their convictions for tipping  day traders  to
confidential data on their internal “squawk boxes,” after an
appeals court said prosecutors withheld critical evidence.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  said prosecutors in  Brooklyn ,  New
York , failed to disclose until after the trial 30 deposition
transcripts taken by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, some of which would have supported the defense of
ex-Merrill Lynch broker Kenneth Mahaffy Jr. and others.  Such “violations obscure a trial’s truth-seeking function
and, in so doing, place criminal defendants at an unfair
disadvantage,” a three-judge panel wrote today in ruling that
prosecutors violated a legal duty to turn over exculpatory
information.  It’s unclear whether prosecutors will seek to retry the
defendants, who were convicted at a 2009 trial of conspiracy
after their first trial ended in hung jury on that count. The
first trial, in 2007, resulted in an acquittal on the other 38
counts.  “In light of the government’s mishandling of material
exculpatory and impeaching material, we wonder whether the
government will choose to subject the defendants to yet a third
trial,” the New York-based appeals court said.  Phone Receivers  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Loretta Lynch
in Brooklyn, said prosecutors will review the ruling and
consider options. Prosecutors have previously called information
in the transcripts irrelevant.  Andrew J. Frisch, an attorney for Mahaffy who discovered
the SEC transcripts four days after his client was sentenced to
two years in prison, said he was “ecstatic” with the decision.  Mahaffy, who remained free pending the appeal, was
prosecuted “for a benign practice historically condoned and
encouraged by the industry,” Frisch said in a statement.  Mahaffy was one of three brokers convicted of conspiring to
sell day traders access to internal squawk boxes, which brokers
used to discuss pending trades by their banks. Three former day-
trading executives at New York-based  A.B. Watley Group Inc. (ABWG)  were
also convicted. Their convictions were reversed as well.  ‘Wash Trades’  Prosecutors argued at the trial that the brokers helped the
Watley traders engage in “front-running” by holding their
phone receivers up to their squawk boxes and transmitting the
squawks. This allowed the Watley traders to buy and sell shares
at more attractive prices than would have been available once
the squawked orders were executed.  In return, Watley traders placed “wash trades” with the
brokerages, buying and selling the same security at the same
price and paying commissions to the brokers, prosecutors said.  The defense argued at the trials that the information
broadcast wasn’t confidential. The SEC transcripts, in which
brokerage officials testified that the squawked information
wasn’t confidential, backed the defense, the appeals court said.  “The withheld SEC testimony strongly suggests that the
brokerage firms did not treat squawked block order information
as confidential,” the court said.  ‘Directly Related’  Separately, the panel found that the lower-court judge
didn’t properly instruct the jury on the law.  “There were many SEC deposition testimony transcripts that
were directly related to the issues at trial that should have
been disclosed and weren’t,” Susan Wolfe, a lawyer for David Ghysels Jr., who worked at now-bankrupt  Lehman Brothers , said in
an interview.  Yuangchung Lee, the attorney for Timothy O’Connell, who
worked at Merrill Lynch, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment on the ruling. Merrill Lynch is now a unit of  Bank of
America Corp.   Mahaffy worked at Merrill Lynch and Citigroup’s Smith
Barney unit.  Also winning a reversal were Robert Malin, the former
president of Watley; Keevin Leonard, who was a supervisor of
proprietary trading there; and Linus Nwaigwe, a former Watley
compliance director. Each was sentenced to prison.  “These guys are broke -- this broke them all,” Susan
Kellman, a lawyer for Malin, said in an interview. “Thank God
these guys had bail pending appeal.”  Donna Newman, a lawyer for Nwaigwe, and Thomas Dunne, a
lawyer for Leonard, didn’t immediately return calls.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Mahaffy, 09-cr-5349, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  