-- Ex-Senator Asks Court to Dismiss Suit Over Sex-Sting Fees
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-02T20:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ex-senator-asks-court-to-dismiss-suit-over-sex-sting-fees.html
Former U.S. Senator Larry Craig asked
a judge to dismiss a lawsuit brought by the  Federal Election
Commission  for using campaign funds to pay for his legal
defense, arguing that he was on official travel when he was
arrested in a sex-sting operation.  Craig, 67, said in a filing today in federal court in
 Washington  that he was allowed to use campaign funds to pay
legal fees incurred from a 2007 arrest at the Minneapolis-St.
Paul International Airport because he was on the way to
Washington for a session of Congress at the time. The travel
triggered the U.S. Constitution’s clause immunizing federal
lawmakers from arrest, according to the filing.  “Senator Craig was engaged in official, constitutionally
mandated activity at the time of the incident,” Craig said in
the filing.  Craig, an Idaho Republican, spent more than $200,000 in
campaign funds in connection with his arrest, disorderly conduct
guilty plea and subsequent efforts to withdraw that plea in
 Minnesota  in 2007, the commission said in a lawsuit filed in
June.  Craig was arrested in a bathroom at the airport on June 11,
2007, by an undercover policeman. He denied soliciting sex in
the restroom, said he had done nothing wrong and that he wasn’t
a homosexual.  Hired Lawyers  Craig hired Washington-based Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan
to serve as lead counsel in an effort to withdraw his guilty
plea and Kelly & Jacobson, a Minnesota firm. He also retained a
media relations firm to handle press inquiries about the
incident, according to the FCC’s complaint.  The Craig for  U.S. Senate  Committee paid Sutherland, Asbill
at least $139,952 for legal services on Craig’s behalf, while
Kelly & Jacobson received about $77,032, the commission said in
the filing.  The commission has asked the court to make Craig pay back
what he spent on his legal defense and to levy civil penalties
against Craig and his campaign treasurer of no more than $6,500.  Julia Queen, a spokeswoman for the FEC, said the agency
doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  The case is Federal Election Commission v. Craig for U.S.
Senate, 1:12-cv-00958, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 