-- Facebook Faces Norway Probe Over Facial-Recognition Tags
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2012-08-02T16:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/facebook-faces-norway-probe-over-facial-recognition-photo-tags.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  is being probed by
 Norway ’s data-protection regulator over concerns a facial-
recognition program that automatically suggests people’s names
to tag in pictures breaches privacy rights.  “It’s a very powerful tool Facebook has and it’s not yet
clear how it all really works,” Bjorn Erik Thon, Norway’s data-
protection commissioner, said in a phone interview today. “They
have pictures of hundreds of millions of people. What material
Facebook has in its databases is something we need to discuss
with them.”  Data-protection regulators from the 27-nation European
Union have been looking into Facebook’s facial-recognition
feature. Earlier this year, the EU’s so-called  Article 29  Data
Protection Working Party  said  the feature can only be used with
people’s consent.  “Users should always be provided with the possibility to
withdraw consent in a simple manner,” the Article 29 group,
which issues guidelines for national regulators, said in their
March 22 opinion. “Once consent is withdrawn processing for the
purposes of facial recognition should stop immediately.”  A spokeswoman for Facebook declined to immediately comment.
The  Menlo Park , California-based company has lost more than $35
billion in market value since its May  initial public offering  as
it fails to assuage concerns about how it can make more money
from almost a billion users.  Irish Office  Norway, which isn’t part of the EU, is coordinating its
investigation with their Irish counterparts, Thon said. The
Irish regulator has been reviewing Facebook’s compliance with
Irish and EU data-protection rules since last year. The
company’s Irish office is Facebook’s main service provider to
users outside the U.S. and  Canada , said the regulator.  An audit report released by the Irish agency in December
said Facebook has to overhaul its service in  Europe  to increase
“transparency and controls for the use of personal data for
advertising purposes” and to delete “data held from user
interactions with the site much sooner.”  The regulator carried out a review of the company’s
progress in implementing the changes last month and will release
a second report later this year.  The Norwegian authority plans to send a questionnaire that
will probably focus on facial recognition to Facebook once it
has seen the Irish report, Thon said.  A German privacy regulator in June suspended its probe of
Facebook into facial recognition pending the Irish audit.  Data protection is currently policed by separate regulators
across the 27-nation EU. The EU’s executive body wants to
simplify the system so companies deal with only one data-
protection regulator in the bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  