-- Facebook Slump Continues After Two Senior Executives Exit
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-08-02T20:23:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/facebook-slump-continues-after-two-senior-executives-exit.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 4 percent to a
record low, the fifth straight day of declines after the world’s
largest social-networking service reported earnings that showed
slowing growth.  The shares slid to $20.04 at the close in New York. Earlier
the stock fell as low as $19.82, the lowest intraday price since
the company held an initial public offering on May 17. Shares of
the  Menlo Park , California-based company have lost 47 percent
since the IPO.  Senior executives Katie Mitic and Ethan Beard said
yesterday that they’re leaving Facebook to pursue other
opportunities, bringing to three the number of high-profile
management departures since the IPO. The exits compounded
investor concerns about Facebook’s prospects for growth as sales
and user expansion slowed in the second quarter, said Martin Pyykkonen, an analyst at Wedge Partners Corp.  “You need some demonstrated execution that is more evident
and shows the revenue growth that you can pull out of this user
base,” Pyykkonen said.  Facebook, which hasn’t closed above the $38 IPO price since
its first trading day, on July 26 reported second-quarter sales
growth of 32 percent, down from 45 percent in the previous three
months.  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s first earnings report as a public company in
2004 set a high bar for Facebook to reassure investors, said
Pyykkonen. “It grew leaps and bounds before anybody could take
their foot off the gas pedal,” he said.  Google’s Surge  Revenue for the search-engine operator more than doubled in
the third quarter of 2004, sending Google’s shares up 15 percent
the following day. Facebook dropped 12 percent the day after its
results came out.  Facebook’s post-IPO slump may cost  California  “hundreds of
millions of dollars” in revenue expected from taxes on  capital
gains  if the lower stock prices persist through the end of the
year, the state’s fiscal analyst said.  “Facebook share prices have fallen far below levels
assumed in the state’s revenue projections,” the nonpartisan
Legislative Analyst’s Office said in a report yesterday.  The most populous U.S. state’s $91.3 billion budget, signed
by Governor  Jerry Brown  in June, counted on $1.9 billion in
income-tax revenue when company insiders such as Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  exercise options, assuming a per-share
price of $35.  Bret Taylor, Facebook’s former chief technology officer,
said in June he was leaving. Facebook’s Mitic, former director
of platform marketing, will work at a mobile startup. Beard,
head of platform partnerships, is starting his own venture.  -- Editors: Lisa Rapaport, Jillian Ward  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  