-- Facelift, Cafe, Trite Shows Degrade Morgan: Lance Esplund
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-08-02T17:59:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/facelift-cafe-trite-shows-degrade-morgan-lance-esplund.html
Why are so many museums beginning to
look alike?  That’s what I asked myself recently at  New York ’s  Morgan
Library & Museum , where lately I’ve encountered, among other
exhibitions, three shows of contemporary sculpture, “ Dan
Flavin : Drawing” and the current “Josef Albers in America:
Painting on Paper.”  What are these shows doing in this place?  Housing one of the world’s most extensive and renowned
collections of rare books and illuminated manuscripts, the
Madison Avenue gem had thrived for almost a century simply as
the Morgan Library.  Now, like so many newly face-lifted and rebranded arts
institutions intent on multitasking, the Morgan suffers from
both an identity crisis and an inferiority complex.  I don’t begrudge expansion, competition and diversity.
Museums need to evolve and cross-pollinate to flourish, but not
at the expense of their roots, their core values.  Diversity is a problem when it leads to humdrum
homogeneity; when it prods an inimitable institution to leap on
to the curatorial bandwagon.  Bauhaus color theorist and painter Josef Albers (1888-1976)
was less talented than his wife, textile artist Anni Albers. Yet
he usually gets top billing. He’s represented at the Morgan by
color studies for his signature series “Homage to the Square.”  Be Hip  Just shy of rigorous paintings, the studies resemble high-
quality studio exercises. Like the “Homage” series, they are
laboratory experiments. Thoughtful repetitions on a theme, they
exemplify the work of a pedagogue practicing as a painter.  Since its makeover began in 2006, the Morgan has been
pushing into new territory. An institution that once beamed with
distinctiveness, quality and purpose, it has morphed into
something almost unrecognizable -- and also sadly familiar.  Like the Morgan’s recent exhibitions devoted to  Bob Dylan ,
Philip Guston and Dan Flavin, the Albers show is less remarkable
for its merit than for its venue. Clearly the Morgan wants to
distance itself from its bookishness and to participate on a
broader, hipper, more contemporary stage.  Awful Redesign  The Morgan’s downfall began in 2006 with  Renzo Piano ’s ill-
conceived reconfiguration. His intervention ruined the floor
plan as well as the atmosphere. Once, we entered from a side
street and stepped into an intimate foyer as we turned into the
stately rooms with their books and display cases.  Now the galleries are awkwardly connected to a ghastly
lobby which also serves as exhibition space and sprawling cafe.  Ever since then, the collection and shows have taken a
distant second place.  Standing in this noisy lobby, among eaters and a handsome
array of three contemporary sculptures by Ellsworth Kelly, then
on a stairway landing, where I was confronted with a Keith Haring drawing, and, later, upstairs in the Albers exhibition, I
felt as though I could have been in any of 100 museums around
the U.S. -- anywhere but the good old Morgan.  In 2005, the Morgan appointed its first curator of modern
and contemporary drawings. On paper, this was a solid move.
Along with its unparalleled collection of books and manuscripts,
an important cache of drawings makes up the three-pronged core
of the Morgan’s holdings.  Red Alert  This spring, the Morgan appointed  Joel Smith  as its first
curator of photography. Smith, who starts in September, will
build, oversee and exhibit the burgeoning collection, which
constituted only a small number of photographs during Pierpont Morgan’s lifetime.  To me, though, these decisions are red flags. They signify
an institution that is not expanding but rather losing its way.  Many museums are adopting Wal-Mart’s one-stop model. The
Morgan is not alone in its desire to be competitive and
relevant.  Yet no New York museum saddens me like the once-magnificent
Morgan Library. Every time I walk through its doors, I feel that
the place has lost more of its former self. Soon, I wonder, will
there be anything left?  “Josef Albers in America: Painting on Paper” runs through
Oct. 14 and “ Ellsworth Kelly : Sculpture” is on through Sept. 9
at the Morgan Library & Museum, 225 Madison Ave. Information:
+1-212-685-0008 or  http://www.themorgan.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  theater  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 