-- Falcone LightSquared Conflict Complaint Rejected by NASA
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-08-02T22:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/falcone-lightsquared-conflict-complaint-rejected-by-nasa.html
NASA ’s inspector general dismissed a
complaint by  Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc. that the vice
chairman of a panel advising the U.S. government on the
company’s proposed broadband network had conflicts of interest.  Bradford Parkinson’s participation in meetings of a NASA-
supervised committee at which LightSquared’s plan was discussed
didn’t conflict with his role as a board member of  Trimble
Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , a maker of GPS-enabled equipment,  Paul Martin ,
the space agency’s  Inspector General , said in a  report  released
today.  LightSquared, the bankrupt wireless telecommunications
company backed by billionaire Falcone’s  Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, requested the NASA probe in January. The
following month, the Federal Communications Commission, the
company’s main regulator, said it would block LightSquared’s
plan for high-speed wireless data service on concerns that the
service would disrupt aircraft navigation and other devices
using GPS.  Although Trimble and other GPS companies lobbied against
LightSquared’s plan, Parkinson “disclosed his ties to Trimble
on his annual financial disclosure statements and made no
attempt to hide his board membership or stock ownership,” the
inspector general said in a summary statement.  Parkinson’s committee, the  National Space-Based
Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Advisory Board , advises the
federal government on issues related to the U.S. GPS system.  Advisory Panel  Parkinson in one instance improperly participated in a
matter affecting Trimble’s finances by signing a letter to the
FCC opposing LightSquared’s application, Martin found.  Martin said he found no evidence to contradict Parkinson’s
statement that he signed the letter out of concern the
LightSquared network would compromise GPS applications, and not
out of financial self-interest.  NASA attorneys should review meeting agendas in advance and
attend advisory committee meetings whenever possible in the
future to identify possible conflicts, Martin recommended.  “We’re pleased to see that programatic changes have been
proposed in this report to prevent this kind of improper conduct
from happening in the future,”  Jeffrey Carlisle , LightSquared’s
executive vice president of regulatory affairs and public
policy, said in a telephone interview.  The company remains focused on solving technical issues
that will permit deployment of its network, Carlisle said.  Parkinson didn’t immediately respond to e-mail and phone
messages seeking comment.  LightSquared filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  on
May 14. Falcone’s plans for the company depended on winning FCC
approval to convert airwaves designated for satellite service to
spectrum for land-based radio towers. LightSquared invested $4
billion in airwaves and reached deals with more than 30
partners, including  Best Buy Co. (BBY)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  