-- Fed Poised to Step Up Stimulus Unless Economy Strengthens
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fed-poised-to-step-up-stimulus-unless-economy-strengthens.html
The  Federal Reserve  moved a step
closer to pumping more stimulus into an economy plagued by
weakening growth and a jobless rate that has stayed at 8 percent
or higher for more than three years.  Central bankers led by  Ben S. Bernanke  concluded their two-
day meeting Wednesday saying they “will provide additional
accommodation as needed” to bolster the expansion. The  Federal
Open Market Committee  also said it will “closely monitor”
economic data and financial developments, suggesting it is
focused on the economy’s near-term performance.  “The default is further easing,” said  Stephen Stanley ,
chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut . “Unless things improve significantly, they’re
going to move” at their Sept. 12-13 meeting, he said.  The dollar strengthened yesterday and Treasuries slid as
the Fed said growth had slowed without taking action. Policy
makers had reason to wait: they will see two months of payrolls
reports before their next meeting, and the European Central Bank
today may announce actions to shore up the region’s bond markets
and ease the debt crisis that poses one of the biggest risks to
the U.S. recovery.  “The Fed is ready to act if things don’t improve,” said
Roberto Perli, managing director of policy research at
International Strategy & Investment Group in  Washington  and a
former Fed economist. Policy makers probably want to build a
“stronger case” for action, he said. “You need more data to
do that.”  Dollar Climbs  The Dollar Index (DXY) , a gauge of the currency against six major
peers, climbed 0.6 percent to 83.13 as the euro slid 0.6 percent
to $1.2225 at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,375.32 after gaining 0.4 percent
earlier. Ten-year Treasury yields increased five basis points to
1.52 percent.  The Fed left unchanged its statement that economic
conditions would likely warrant holding the benchmark Fed funds
rate near zero “at least through late 2014.” It also said it
would continue swapping $667 billion of short-term debt with
longer-term securities to lengthen the average maturity of its
holdings, an action intended to lower long-term interest rates
known as Operation Twist.  A report yesterday showing manufacturing contracted for a
second month in July underscored the Fed’s assessment that
“economic activity decelerated somewhat over the first half of
this year.”  Growth cooled to a 1.5 percent annual pace in the second
quarter from 2 percent in the previous three months as consumers
and companies pulled back. Job gains slowed to an average pace
of 75,000 from April through June from 226,000 in the prior
three months.  Easing Tools  Bernanke said in July 17 congressional testimony that the
Fed’s tools for additional easing include more purchases of
assets, such as mortgage-backed securities, altering
communications on the outlook for  interest rates  and reducing
the  interest rate  paid on excess reserves that banks keep with
the Fed.  The Fed chairman will have a chance to talk more about
policy options when he speaks to economists and central bankers
at the Kansas City Fed’s conference in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming ,
Aug. 30 to Sept. 1. His speech at the 2010 conference set the
stage for a second round of large-scale asset purchases, which
the committee started in November that year.  Bernanke will also hold a press conference after the
September FOMC meeting, when Fed officials publish updated
forecasts for growth, unemployment, inflation and interest
rates.  Rate Outlook  The interest-rate outlook would provide greater context for
a decision to extend the low-rate guidance into 2015. Forecasts
showing several more years of scant improvement in unemployment
could justify a decision to expand the balance sheet further.  “Conditions are getting ripe for the Fed to ease,” said
 Eric Green , head of global foreign exchange and interest-rate
research at TD Securities in New York and a former New York Fed
economist. “They’ve set the tone that if these conditions
deteriorate, we’re ready to move in.”  The FOMC’s statement that it will “closely monitor” data
on the economy and markets echoed a phrase that was sometimes
used under former Chairman  Alan Greenspan  before the Fed took
action between regularly scheduled meetings, Green said.  “We still have to think the odds are low for inter-meeting
ease, they’re just higher than they otherwise would be,” he
said. “What would get the Fed to move, I think, is if
conditions deteriorate in  Europe  to the point that stocks begin
to get hit hard.”  Full Employment  Unless consumer and business spending improve, the Fed is
unlikely to make much progress on its dual mandate for full
employment and stable prices, said  Ward McCarthy , chief
financial economist at Jefferies & Co. Inc. in New York.  “They will be paying attention to the data inter-
meeting,” McCarthy said. “Sustained improvement in the labor
market is the bar Bernanke has set. We have not seen that, and
they are not even forecasting that.”  In June, Fed officials forecast unemployment would average
8 percent to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter of this year,
compared with their long-run goal of 5.2 percent to 6 percent.
Unemployment stood at 8.2 percent in June.  Inflation fell to 1.5 percent for the year ending June,
below the central bank’s 2 percent target.  The Fed’s policy statement yesterday didn’t hint at what
type of tools it might use to provide another round of stimulus.  “The most likely tool is more securities purchases and
forward guidance” on how long the benchmark federal funds rate
will be kept near zero, said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for
 North America  at BNP Paribas in New York. BNP economists expect
that guidance to be extended into 2015.  “The bar is very low for further action,” Coronado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  