-- Fed Says It Will Push to Reduce Repo Market Risk
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-08-02T14:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fed-says-it-will-push-to-reduce-repo-market-risk.html
A Federal Reserve official told
lawmakers the central bank will push to reduce risk in the $1.8
trillion repurchase-agreement market by pressing the largest
dealers for faster and more accurate trade confirmations.  “Enhancing the market’s resiliency and its settlement
system is an important regulatory and financial stability
priority,” Matthew Eichner, deputy director of the Fed’s
division of research and statistics, said today in prepared
testimony to a Senate panel. “Supervisory efforts will yield
substantial progress in eliminating the reliance of the tri-
party repo market on intraday credit.”  Eichner said the Fed’s push to boost risk management in the
tri-party repurchase agreement market, which neared collapse in
2008 amid the demise of Bear Stearns Cos. and bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., is taking longer than “many of
us had hoped”  because of delays in developing a plan to
liquidate the collateral of a defaulting dealer.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  serve as the industry’s clearing banks.
The market is the biggest single source of financing for U.S.
primary dealers, the 21 firms that act as counterparties for the
central bank.  ‘Difficult Dilemmas’  “The reliance on discretionary intraday credit in the tri-
party settlement process poses difficult dilemmas for cash
lenders, borrowers, and clearing banks during periods of market
stress,” Eichner told the Senate Banking Committee’s
Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance, and Investment.  “As a result, securities dealers may experience a sudden
and acute loss of funding,” Eichner said. “A clearing bank may
be reluctant to unwind the tri-party trades of a securities
dealer and extend credit if the bank perceives a material risk
to the financial viability of the dealer.”  Repos are transactions used predominantly by the Fed’s
primary dealers for short-term funding, and typically involve
the sale of U.S. government securities in exchange for cash,
generally lent by money market mutual funds. The debt is held as
collateral for the loan. Dealers agree to repurchase the
securities at a later date, and cash is sent back to the lender.  Task Force  The Fed took over efforts to improve functioning of the
tri-party repo market in February after the private-sector Tri-
Party Repo Infrastructure  Task Force , sponsored by the  Federal
Reserve Bank of New York , disbanded. The Fed said July 18 that
banks should rely less on intra-day credit from clearing banks
and enhance risk management.  The repo  task force   said  in February that more time and
effort was needed to reach its goal of the “practical
elimination” of the extension of intraday credit to dealers
from the industry’s two clearing banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  