-- FHA Finances Said to Rebound on Higher Premiums, Loan Volume
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-08-02T20:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fha-finances-said-to-rebound-on-higher-premiums-loan-volume.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
may end the fiscal year with about $3 billion in reserves after
premium increases and rising loan volume offset a previously
forecast shortfall, people with knowledge of the numbers said.  U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development officials
cited the turnaround to lawmakers today as Democrats push for a
Senate vote on Carol Galante’s nomination to head the agency,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the discussions are private. Galante, 57, has been acting head
of FHA, which is overseen by HUD, since July 2011.  “Carol Galante has taken action to change the way that HUD
and FHA do business, including steps to help FHA better manage
risk,” according to a HUD document that has been circulating
among members of Congress.  The improved picture has emerged after months of turmoil at
FHA, which in February was set to ask for a $688 million in a
taxpayer subsidy that would have been the first in its 80-year
history. The need for a subsidy was eliminated when the agency
received nearly $1 billion from a legal settlement with mortgage
servicers over flawed foreclosure practices.  FHA’s troubles stemmed from rising defaults on mortgages it
insured as it took an expanded role in the market during the
peak years of the housing bubble. The agency now insures about
7.1 million loans with outstanding balances totaling more than
$1 trillion, triple the amount it held five years ago.  Republican Opposition  FHA’s finances have continued to improve, according to the
HUD documents sent to urge senators to confirm Galante before
they leave for summer recess. Republicans including Senator
 David Vitter  of  Louisiana  have opposed her nomination on the
grounds that the agency’s finances are shaky.  Vitter still opposes the nomination, Luke Bolar, a
spokesman for the senator, said today in an e-mail.  Senator  Tim Johnson , the South Dakota Democrat who leads
the Senate Banking Committee, reaffirmed his support and called
for bipartisan backing for Galante.  “I hope my Republican colleagues will not deny FHA a
confirmed commissioner at a time when managing the book of
business from 2000 through 2008 requires an experienced
leader,” Johnson said in a statement.  The agency hasn’t had a permanent leader since David H. Stevens, 55, quit to lead the  Mortgage Bankers Association  in
March 2011. Galante, who was a developer of affordable housing
before joining HUD in 2009, took over after serving as FHA’s
head of multifamily housing.  ‘Overall Uncertainty’  “While Acting Commissioner Galante has made significant
strides in improving the long-term health and position of the
FHA, continuing in an acting capacity merely adds to overall
uncertainty in the market,” HUD said in the documents.  Loan volume and premium revenue have surged since FHA
increased insurance premiums on new single-family loans in April
by 75 basis points to 1.75 percent of loan amount. At the same
time, to encourage refinancing of loans originated before June
2009, FHA cut up-front premiums in its so-called streamline
refinance program to 0.01 percent of loan amount from 1 percent
and cut annual fees to 0.55 percent from 1.15.  Single-family insurance applications received by FHA in May
rose by 4.5 percent from a year earlier, to about 124,000,
according to agency data. That included 25,000 streamline
refinance applications, up 225 percent from a year earlier.  The fee increase came after an audit in November showed
agency reserves had fallen to a record $2.6 billion. The FHA’s
capital ratio, a measure of its ability to withstand losses, was
0.24 percent in the year ended Sept. 30, the third straight year
it failed to meet the legal minimum of 2 percent.  Positive Outlook  The new numbers show the agency’a outlook is positive, said
Brian Chappelle, a bank consultant with Potomac Partners in
 Washington .  “With each passing day, FHA’s financial condition is
improving as the problem loans from 2005-2008 become a much
smaller percentage (under 15%) of FHA’s portfolio,” Chappelle
said in an e-mail.  Edward Pinto , a housing specialist at the  American
Enterprise Institute  and a frequent critic of FHA’s accounting
practices, said the agency’s financial condition could
deteriorate before the fiscal year ends Sept. 30.  “We’ll see what actually happens,” Pinto said. “In the
past they have had slippage between what they say in August and
what happens in October or November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  