-- Fiat Italy Spending Halt Prompts Government Action Calls
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-08-02T11:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fiat-halts-new-spending-in-italy-with-sales-plunging.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s decision to temporarily
halt new investments in Italy prompted politicians and unions to
ask the government to intervene to secure the industry’s future
in the country as car sales plunge to a 33-year low.  “I would tell the government to call Fiat to ask them what
their intentions are,” said Pier Luigi Bersani, who heads the
 Democratic Party , a supporter of Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s
government.  Italy’s biggest manufacturer said yesterday it can’t give
“any indication concerning future investments” in the country
because of the “economic crisis and current difficulties in the
European auto market.” Italian car sales have plummeted 20
percent through July, with deliveries this year on track to hit
the lowest since 1979.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  is slashing
spending in Italy as the country’s economy contracts and
unemployment shoots up. Italy entered its fourth recession since
2001 at the end of last year as  Europe ’s debt crisis
intensified. The slump has deepened in 2012 as austerity
measures contributed to a 0.8 percent decline in first-quarter
gross domestic product. Italy’s jobless rate rose to the highest
in almost 13 years in June.  “It is a signal of lack of confidence in a quick recovery in
the economy,”  Wolfango Piccoli , a political risk analyst at
Eurasia Group in  London , said of Fiat’s announcement. “It’s a
reflection, not just of the struggles that Fiat is facing in
Italy, but of how the wider European car market is clearly
suffering.”  Shares Drop  The shares  gained  as much as 1.2 percent to 4.05 euros and
were up 0.7 percent as of 1:41 p.m. in Milan trading. The stock
has climbed 14 percent this year, valuing the company at 5.04
billion euros ($6.18 billion).  Marchionne, who has been spearheading an industrywide
effort to cut excess assembly lines in Europe, has vowed to
close a second Italian factory, after shuttering one last year,
unless he finds a way to export cars to the U.S. The CEO will
give his new plan for Italy at the end of October with third-
quarter results.  European auto sales are set to fall for a fifth straight
year as consumers hold back from making big ticket purchases.
Fiat is reducing European investment by 500 million euros in
2012 after first-half deliveries in the region plunged 17
percent.  Plant Closings  “Delaying investments at Italian plants, with such a sales
crisis and an unclear political situation in Europe, is a
legitimate decision,” Giuliano Noci, associate dean of the MIP
business school at the Milan Polytechnic, said. “At the same
time, Fiat needs to keep spending for new models especially in
fast growing markets, such as China and  Russia .”  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-largest carmaker,
announced last month plans to close a French factory and
eliminate a total of 16,000 jobs. That follows an announcement
from  General Motors Co. (GM)  that the American automaker plans to
shut a German plant.  “Difficult conditions persist in the European auto market,
particularly in Italy where demand is approaching the lowest
level since 1979,” Fiat said in yesterday’s statement.
“Certain peers who are still heavily exposed to the European
market are experiencing significant losses and have even had to
announce plant closures.”  Temporary Layoffs  Fiat said it’s focused on  temporary layoffs  to reduce costs
during the crisis as opposed to permanent job cuts. The Turin-
based manufacturer confirmed it will complete investments at
plants in Grugliasco for a new Maserati sedan, in Modena for the
Alfa 4C sports car and in Pratola Serra for engines.  “Marchionne told us he suspended new investments in  Italy ,
including the ones at Mirafiori,” Eros Panicali, a leader of
the Uilm metalworkers union, said in a phone interview after
meeting the CEO. “We will meet again in a couple of months to
get a clearer picture.”  Fiat, which employees about 63,000 workers in Italy, has
plans to build at least two new models at its Mirafiori plant in
Turin, investing 1 billion euros. The Italian carmaker said in
February it will make a new Fiat car at the plant beginning at
the end of next year and a Jeep model starting in 2014 as it
aims to assemble 280,000 cars a year at its oldest facility.  “The government should intervene as Italy should avoid
losing the  auto industry ,” said Fiom metalworkers union leader
Giorgio Airaudo. “Fiat’s plan for the country doesn’t exist
anymore.” Fiom has opposed Marchionne’s plans and didn’t sign a
new labor agreement to cut costs.  “Demand for cars in Italy next year will be even weaker
than in 2012, without any measures to sustain the market,” said
Jacques Bousquet, president of the Unrae industry group. July
car sales in Italy fell 21 percent to 108,826.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  