-- Fiscal Cliff Crisis Rooted in Senate Ploy to Pass Bush Tax Cuts
-- B y   B r e n d a n   G r e e l e y
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fiscal-cliff-crisis-rooted-in-senate-ploy-to-pass-bush-tax-cuts.html
In early 2001,  Paul O’Neill , the new
 Treasury secretary , began work on a plan for radical  tax reform .
He wanted simpler forms and fewer deductions, which would make
it easy for people to prepare their taxes and cost the
government less to process them. He presented a five-inch-thick
binder of research to a senior White House official.  “Don’t ever let that see the light of day,” O’Neill says he
was told. President  George W. Bush  didn’t want to deliver a tax
overhaul. He wanted to deliver the tax cuts he’d promised as a
candidate, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug. 6 issue.  He did, in 2001 and then again in 2003. Yet the kinds of
cuts he’d promised -- large ones -- would create unsustainable
 deficits  after 10 years, the  Congressional Budget Office 
projected. So they were designed to expire in a decade, at least
on paper.  It was “baloney,” says O’Neill, who publicly supported them
at the time. Republicans never intended to let the cuts lapse.
“It was put in there so they could make a fiscal claim that it
wouldn’t damage us. It had nothing to do with reality.”  It’s now more than 10 years later, and Bush’s tax cuts are
still with us -- adding to the debt as predicted. The temporary
tax cuts have become a subsidy, and as with all subsidies, to
take them away is to create a period of painful readjustment.  Politicians worry about the “fiscal cliff” -- the
economic turmoil waiting at year’s end when deep federal
spending cuts go into effect and the tax cuts lapse -- as though
no one could have seen it coming. There is nothing we know now
that we didn’t already know a decade ago.  Watching Forbes  On Dec. 1, 1999, candidate Bush was leading the race for
the Republican presidential nomination, looking over his
shoulder at  Steve Forbes ’s promise of a 17 percent flat tax,
which was popular with conservatives. At a campaign event in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa , Bush vowed that, as president, he would cut taxes
for all Americans. According to a widely circulated  report 
prepared by Citizens for Tax Justice at the time, his plan would
cost $1.7 trillion over 10 years.  It looked like the money would be there to spend. Fiscal
restraint and a strong economy had given Washington something
novel to play with: The CBO forecast a  federal budget  surplus of
$5.6 trillion by 2011.  “The people of America have been overcharged, and, on their
behalf, I’m here asking for a refund,” Bush told a joint session
of Congress after his election. Trent Lott, then-Republican
Senate majority leader, had lauded the idea. “It protects the
entire Social Security surplus and leaves resources available
for other priorities,” Lott said.  Wrong Focus  Those other priorities were more important to voters than
lower taxes. In 2001, the Pew Research Center  found  that
37 percent of Americans preferred to use the surplus to fund
Social Security and Medicare, 23 percent for domestic spending,
and only 19 percent for a  tax cut .  Even after selling the idea as a way to give back part of
the surplus, Republicans were concerned that they couldn’t bring
on enough Democrats to pass it. So they resorted to
reconciliation, the same parliamentary maneuver Democrats would
use in 2010 to pass a health-care law.  While that allowed Republicans to get around a threatened
filibuster, Senate rules don’t allow bills passed by
reconciliation to create deficits more than 10 years in the
future. Thus, the 10-year expiration date.  ‘A Wink’  “Everyone understood that it was 10 years with a wink,”
says Democrat Tom Daschle, then-Senate minority leader.  Bill Hoagland , a Republican who ran the Senate Budget
Committee staff, says Republicans assumed they could extend the
cuts later. Daschle, who voted against them, remembers it the
same way.  “It was a sort of sense that this is a political thing
we’ve gotta get behind us,” he says. “Let’s move on, there will
be plenty of opportunities to take this more seriously in the
future.”  By the next year, things had gotten very serious. The
economy was weak and a war was on the way. There were no more
surpluses to play with. In 2002, the federal government ran a
deficit of $158 billion. The White House began a push for more
tax cuts, this time justifying them as a stimulus. Several
moderate Republicans warned that further cuts would make the
deficits worse.  Yet Hoagland, who then went on to work for new Senate
Majority Leader  Bill Frist , recalls the administration had begun
to rely less on budget projections, which, when rosier, had
justified the original tax-cut plan in 2001.  “When your faith is all built on lower taxes,” says
Hoagland, “projections don’t matter that much.”  Paper Expirations  The 2003 cuts also came with paper expiration dates of 2004
and 2009. Congress extended them in 2005, a year that tax cuts,
along with a slack economy, contributed $416 billion to the
deficit. It extended them again in 2007, when the cumulative
cuts added an additional $248 billion.  More arrived as a stimulus in 2008, and in the recession
that followed the financial crisis  Barack Obama  and the
Democratic Congress added new cuts and agreed to extend the old
ones.  Now, more than a decade’s worth of tax cuts are set to come
due in about six months, each dreamed up and extended under the
fiction that it would be temporary.  In 2011, they helped contribute $1.1 trillion to the debt.
In total, since 2001, the  CBO calculates  that tax cuts have
helped add $6.1 trillion to the debt. This is what Washington
now calls a crisis: completely predictable arithmetic,
compounded over a decade by a consistent refusal to acknowledge
reality.  The fiscal cliff has been clearly visible in the distance
for years. The reason we’re talking about it now is that, right
on schedule, it’s finally become too big to ignore.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Greeley in Washington at 
 bgreeley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  