-- Flash Crash Alert -- Traders Thrive on Procrastination: Books
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-08-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/flash-crash-alert-traders-thrive-on-procrastination-books.html
Procrastinators, rejoice:  Frank Partnoy  has written a book just for you.  Partnoy is the former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  banker who brought us
“F.I.A.S.C.O.,” a sardonic look at a band of derivatives
traders and salesmen who unleashed their killer instincts on
rivals and clients alike in the 1990s.  After quitting  Wall Street , he took to teaching law and
finance at the University of  San Diego  and penning what he calls
“increasingly obscure books that I am increasingly unqualified
to write.” The latest is “Wait,” an intellectual romp through
the science of how timing influences human decision-making.  His conclusion: Most of us, caught up in the rhythms of
modern life, react too quickly. Whether making an apology,
sizing up a first date or coping with a trading algorithm gone
haywire, “we don’t, or can’t, take enough time to think about
the increasingly complex timing challenges we face,” he writes.  Partnoy began examining faulty decision-making during the
financial maelstrom of 2008. Seeking to understand why bankers
and regulators proved so shortsighted, he plowed through
research on psychology, behavioral economics and more. He
interviewed more than 100 specialists, including neuroscientist
Stephen Porges, tennis coach Angel Lopez and hedge-fund manager
 Bill Ackman , founder of Pershing Square Capital Management LP.  Speed Traders  The book he emerged with presents a medley of evidence
showing that decisions can, and often should be, delayed. F-16
pilots outmaneuver opponents by waiting for them to act first.
Surgeons reduce death rates by pausing to review checklists.  The best performers -- even among high-frequency traders
and tennis pros -- are those who delay their responses, buying
extra time to gather and process information, Partnoy writes.
Though they operate in milliseconds, they are in a sense
behaving like  Warren Buffett , who compares buying stocks to
hitting a baseball in a game without strikes.  “All day you wait for the pitch you like; then when the
fielders are asleep, you step up and hit it,” as Buffett once
told Forbes magazine.  One of the odder tales related here holds a lesson about
the electronic  trading spasms  that hit U.S. stocks this week,
reviving memories of the Flash Crash in 2010.  35 Milliseconds  Partnoy describes how stock-trading firm UNX Inc. shipped
its computers from  Burbank ,  California , to  New York  -- just to
shave 35 milliseconds off its trading speeds. The result:
Execution suffered, pushing trading costs up instead of down.
After testing and retesting, UNXers gave up and slowed the
computers to the old trade time. Suddenly everything clicked.  “By delaying trades slightly, UNX avoided the extra costs
that arose from the rush of instantaneous trading,” he says.
“It got better results by waiting a few dozen milliseconds --by
procrastinating at the speed of light.”  Partnoy builds on well-known research showing humans have
“two systems” for thinking: One is intuitive, the other
analytical -- or “fast and slow,” as Nobel laureate  Daniel
Kahneman  puts it. What’s less understood, Partnoy says, is how
our tendency to react too fast or too slow bends our decisions.  “Delay alone can turn a good decision into a bad one, or
vice versa,” as he writes with characteristic economy.  Procrastination has provided fodder for generations of
moralists and self-help gurus, as Partnoy says. Yet history
teems with beloved stallers.  Stiglitz’s Box  Think of  St. Augustine  (“Lord, make me chaste -- but not
yet!”). Or economist  George Akerlof , who famously waited more
than eight months before sending a box of clothes from  India ,
where he was living, to a visitor who had returned to the U.S.,
friend and colleague  Joseph Stiglitz .  Years later, Akerlof made Stiglitz’s box Exhibit A in a
 lecture  that struck a blow at the assumptions of classical
economics. His conclusion: Humans often make bad decisions even
when they understand the future consequences. We intend to stop
smoking, boozing and overeating, yet we puff another cigarette,
chug an extra beer and reach for that candy bar.  Akerlof is no hardened procrastinator. He just didn’t know
how to ship the box without wasting a day navigating Indian
bureaucracy. He also figured that Stiglitz had no urgent need
for the box, which contained a Nepali wedding costume and other
impractical garments. Meantime Akerlof was beginning a research
program that would yield “dozens of articles, numerous
influential books and a  Nobel Prize ,” Partnoy writes.  Partnoy isn’t excusing procrastination born of laziness. He
is, rather, arguing that good decisions hinge on managing delay.
Though evolution has hardwired us to react quickly, it’s better
to strike when the moment is ripe.  Whether you’re a fighter pilot or a value investor, his
message is simple: Wait.  “Wait” is from  PublicAffairs  in the U.S. and from  Profile 
in the U.K. (290 pages, $26.99 in hardcover, 12.99 pounds in
paperback). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Greg
Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 