-- Florida Brain-Injury Center Gets Surprise Inspection
-- B y   D a v i d   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-03T00:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/florida-brain-injury-center-gets-surprise-inspection.html
Investigators from three state
agencies conducted a surprise inspection today of the  Florida 
Institute for Neurologic Rehabilitation, a brain-injury
treatment  center  where some patients were allegedly abused or
neglected.  Florida state officials didn’t say what they found at the
196-bed institute, a closely held company known as FINR. The
center is one of the largest in the country and draws patients
from across the U.S.  “We are all concerned about the care, safety and well-
being of the residents of the Florida Institute of Neurological
Rehabilitation,” said Liz Dudek, secretary of the state  Agency
for Health Care Administration , which licenses the center.  In addition to that agency, investigators from the
Department of Children and Families and the  Department of Health 
participated in the inspection of the FINR campus in Wauchula,
Florida, about 50 miles from Tampa.  The agencies said in a news release that they will review
the information gathered and determine the most appropriate plan
of response depending on the findings.  “FINR welcomes any inspection and visit from state
regulators, as they always have, and are confident they will
find that the safety and welfare of FINR patients is their top
priority,” said Wayne J. Miller, an attorney for the company.  Bloomberg reported this week that Florida regulators ended
inquiries into the death of a patient at FINR and cases of
alleged abuse over doubts about their agencies’ legal authority.  “Today shows inter-agency collaboration in action as we
work together to protect patients and promote safe
environments,” said John Armstrong, surgeon general of the
 Department of Health .  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
David Armstrong in Boston at 
 darmstrong16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net  