-- Ford Late in China Sees New Buyers Making Laggard a Leader: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T21:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ford-late-in-china-sees-new-buyers-making-laggard-a-leader-cars.html
Joe Hinrichs,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s top
executive in  Asia , has a solution for the carmaker’s minnow
status in China: cheap cars in backwaters.  “If you want to become a volume leader in the world,
you’ll have to compete at the lower price points because that’s
where the growth is,” Hinrichs, who oversees Ford operations in
the Asia Pacific and Africa region, said over lunch at Morton’s
in Shanghai last week. “In China, we decided -- and you can
debate the intelligence of that decision -- not to offer a full
range of products. That’s something we’re changing.”  For now, Ford’s offerings in China are neither cheap enough
nor extensive. The Fiesta subcompact, the lowest-priced of the
automaker’s five models, costs 40 percent more than  General
Motor Co. (GM) ’s entry-level Chevrolet Sail.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Europe ’s
largest carmaker, has a product lineup that starts from the
75,800-yuan ($12,000) Jetta to the 2.32 million-yuan Audi R8
sportscar.  Gaining ground in China would help Ford reduce its reliance
on U.S. sales, which unexpectedly fell last month, and blunt
European losses projected to exceed $1 billion this year. With
GM and VW pushing into the Chinese hinterland in search of the
next phase of growth, Chief Executive Officer  Alan Mulally  is
committing $4.9 billion in spending on new factories and models
in Asia to back his target to raise the region’s contribution
almost fivefold to a third of global sales by 2020.  Strategy Shift  Introducing lower-priced models in China and Asia marks a
shift in strategy for Ford, which has historically offered
products to the higher end of its price segment, said Hinrichs,
who was appointed to the Asia job in 2009 by Mulally after
stints in labor affairs, manufacturing and running Ford’s
operations in  Canada .  In 2010, the company introduced in  India  the Figo
hatchback, a move that helped almost triple deliveries in the
fiscal year it went on sale. For  China , less-developed cities in
the country’s inland provinces hold the key to future sales
growth, Hinrichs said.  Vehicle sales in China, including trucks and buses, are
projected to rise 5 percent to 8 percent this year to 20 million
units, according to the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers, even amid the slowest economic growth in three
years.  While that’s slower than the explosive rates of growth in
2009 and 2010, when deliveries grew 46 percent and 32 percent
respectively, it still makes China the most attractive market
with the biggest potential, a trend that’s unlikely to change
for years to come given the weakness of European demand, said
Hinrichs.  Late Start  Ford’s newfound commitment to expand in China may prove too
late as GM and VW entrench themselves as the automotive brands
of choice with the car-buying public, according to Klaus Paur,
an industry analyst.  When Ford first pushed into China in 2002, it was losing
money at home and starting a wrenching restructuring. The
company arrived in China almost a decade behind GM, which won a
crucial partnership with Shanghai Automotive Industrial Corp. in
1995. Volkswagen built its first car in China in 1985.  The first-mover advantage shows. VW accounted for five of
the 10 top-selling passenger vehicle models this year, GM had
three, including the bestselling Buick Excelle and second-placed
Chevy Sail. Ford’s Focus small car ranked eighth by sales, with
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ’s Verna rounding off the list, according to
auto association data.  Ford had a 2.4 percent share of the country’s light-vehicle
market, compared with 19 percent for VW and 10 percent for GM,
data from industry researcher LMC Automotive show.  ‘Less Aggressive’  “This is the story of Ford,” said Paur, Shanghai-based
global head of automotive at researcher Ipsos. “They are slower
and less aggressive than their competitors in bringing new cars
into the market.”  To address that gap, Ford is building a $760 million
assembly plant in Hangzhou, an hour west of Shanghai by high-
speed train, slated for completion in 2015. The factory will
double output in the country to 1.2 million vehicles annually.
Expanding production in China is crucial because locally built
autos are exempt from  import duties  that can add more than 25
percent to the price tag.  Ford will also add three SUVs to its China lineup to cater
to more upscale demand, Hinrichs said. SUVs are the fastest-
growing vehicle segment in China, with first-half sales gaining
32 percent versus 7.1 percent for total passenger-vehicle
deliveries, according to auto association data.  SUV Demand  The Explorer SUV will be imported and available next year,
while the automaker will build the Kuga, known as the Escape in
the U.S., and smaller Eco Sport at its existing plant in
Chongqing in southwestern China.  The carmaker has no plans at present to bring its premium
Lincoln brand to China, according to the company, where it will
compete against leaders Audi, BMW and Mercedes-Benz. Ford
currently sells the Mondeo, Fiesta, Focus, S-Max minivan and the
imported Edge in China.  Ford’s bid to catch up in China will be aided by the lack
of brand loyalty, with the majority of buyers purchasing a
vehicle for the first time, according to Jochen Siebert,
managing director at JSC ( Shanghai ) Automotive Consulting Co.  “They are on the right track, going into the right
segments, doing the right things,” said Siebert, who predicts
Ford’s sales will almost triple in China to 1.1 million vehicles
by 2018. “The new products will change the way people look at
Ford.”  Hinrichs, touted as an internal contender to succeed
Mulally as CEO, recognizes that the expansion plan will take
several years to bear fruit. Reminders that China is one of the
most competitive markets are also never far away.  “There’s no home run in this,” said Hinrichs, who is
chauffeured in Shanghai in a Lincoln Navigator SUV. “I look out
the window and there will be brands I don’t recognize.  I’ll ask
my driver but sometimes he also doesn’t know.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  