-- Forest Labs Board Wins Glass Lewis Backing in Icahn Proxy Fight
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-08-02T13:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/forest-labs-board-wins-glass-lewis-backing-in-icahn-proxy-fight.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) , the
drugmaker embroiled in its second proxy fight with billionaire
investor  Carl Icahn , won the backing of advisory firm  Glass
Lewis  & Co. for all of its 10 directors.  Glass Lewis determined the company has been transparent
with its plans to expand its product base and has made “notable
strides” in governance, New York-based Forest said today in a
statement. The proxy advisory firm raised concerns about a lack
of independence among some of Icahn’s nominees, Forest said.  Icahn, Forest’s second-largest  shareholder  with 9.9 percent
of the stock, has nominated four directors, saying the drugmaker
didn’t adequately prepare for the loss of patent protection on
its top-selling  drug , Lexapro, and questioning the potential for
the chief executive officer’s son to succeed him. Icahn failed
to get any of four nominees elected to Forest’s board last year.  The investor yesterday won the support of Institutional
Shareholder Services Inc., another proxy adviser, for two of his
nominees. ISS urged shareholders vote for Daniel Ninivaggi,
 Icahn Enterprises LP (IEP) ’s chief executive officer, and Pierre Legault, CEO of Stone Management LLC and the former chief
financial officer of OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc., a company sold to
 Astellas Pharma Inc. (4503)  in 2010.  Egan-Jones Proxy Services, a third advisory firm,
recommended Forest shareholders vote for all four Icahn
nominees, Icahn said in a statement July 30.  “The board is unanimous in its belief that the company’s
current strategy positions Forest to deliver sustainable value
for all shareholders,” Forest said in the statement today.
“Our board is squarely focused on building on the momentum we
have behind our promising new products and late-stage pipeline -
which is one of the most robust in the pharma industry.”  Forest declined 1.6 percent to $32.43 at 9:31 a.m.  New York 
time. The shares lost 10 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  