-- Former UBS Strategist Says He Was Pressured to Mislead
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-02T22:40:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/former-ubs-strategist-says-he-was-pressured-to-mislead.html
UBS AG (UBS)  was sued by a former senior
commercial mortgage-backed securities strategist who claims he
was terminated for telling supervisors he was being pressured to
publish misleading reports.  Trevor Murray was employed by UBS Securities LLC from May
2007 until he was fired in September 2009, and then returned to
the company in May 2011, he said in a lawsuit filed today in
federal court in  Manhattan . He said was terminated in February,
a month after his most recent complaint.  “Plaintiff was the target of a concerted effort by members
of UBS Securities involved in CMBS trading and commercial
mortgage origination to skew his research to appear more
favorable to those UBS Securities CMBS products and trading
positions,” Murray said in the suit.  UBS, based in Zurich, is  Switzerland ’s biggest lender.
Murray’s lawyers said in a statement that they also filed a
complaint with the U.S. Occupational Health & Safety
Administration.  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman for UBS in New York, declined
to comment on the lawsuit in an e-mail.  Murray said he worked for UBS Securities in its mortgage
strategy group and special assets group from May 2007 to
September 2009, when he was laid off. He then joined CapRok
Capital LLC as a managing director and CMBS analyst in October
2009.  Formal Offer  UBS Securities solicited him to return in early 2011 and
gave him a formal offer in April of that year, Murray said in
the complaint. He resigned from CapRok in May 2011 and joined
UBS Securities as a senior CMBS strategist and executive
director -- a higher position than he had earlier held -- with a
base salary of $250,000.  “Senior employees of UBS Securities assured plaintiff that
the company was fully committed to the CMBS business and that
plaintiff would be an integral member of that business as it
grew in the coming years,” Murray said.  The people recruiting him to return to UBS pointed as sign
of their commitment to the concurrent hiring of Ken Cohen,
formerly of  Lehman Brothers , and most of his former team to run
UBS Securities’ CMBS trading and commercial mortgage
originations, Murray said.  Incentive Compensation  Murray said he was told that his incentive compensations
would range from about three-fourths of his base salary in
“difficult years” to twice as much in “strong, profitable
years,” according to the complaint.  Murray, who was responsible for research and reports about
CMBS products that were distributed to UBS clients, said Cohen
and others pressured him to “skew his published research in
ways designed to support UBS Securities’ ongoing CMBS trading
and loan origination activities,” the suit said.  Cohen declined to comment on the lawsuit in a telephone
interview.  Murray alleged Cohen urged him to “improve conditions in
the CMBS market” because it was going to be a “significant
revenue generator” for UBS Securities’ investment bank. He
claimed Cohen stopped him in the hallway in December 2011 and
“admonished” him for publishing a report that was “too
bearish.”  Murray said he repeatedly told superiors about attempts to
influence his research, yet no one acted to stop the
interference.  The case is Murray v. UBS Securities LLC, 12-cv-5914, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  