-- Former NBA Referee Donaghy Told to Leave Betting Radio
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-02T21:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/former-nba-referee-donaghy-told-to-leave-betting-radio.html
Former National Basketball
Association referee Tim Donaghy, who served about 13 months in
prison after pleading guilty to gambling and wire-fraud charges,
was ordered by a federal judge to stop working for a sports
betting-related radio show while on supervised release.  U.S. District Judge Carol Bagley Amon in  Brooklyn , New
York, told Donaghy at a hearing on July 30 to end his employment
with the Allentown, Pennsylvania-based “Sports Connection Radio
Show,” where he offers betting advice.  “Meet the Man who generated millions of Dollars Betting on
Basketball, as seen on 60 Minutes and Documented by the NBA and
FBI,” the sportsconnectionwins.com website says beneath a link
to a Donaghy video.  Donaghy’s employer, Daniel T. Biancullo, the owner of the
show, has a 2004 federal conviction stemming from his role in a
sports-gambling operation, according to court records. As part
of his probation, Donaghy is prohibited from associating with
felons.  Biancullo said Donaghy didn’t know about his conviction and
that the former referee’s probation officer never asked whether
he was ever convicted of a crime.  ‘Probation Officer’  “His probation officer, she was a fan of mine,” Biancullo
said in a phone interview. “She gave me a list of dos and
don’ts and we respected them.”  Donaghy was paid about $50,000 a year, Biancullo said.  Against the court’s advice, Donaghy, 45, represented
himself at the hearing. His attorney in the case ended his
involvement in July 2008.  Robert Nardoza , spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office,
declined to comment on the judge’s order or the hearing.  Donaghy began his 13-year career as an NBA referee in 1994.
He said he accepted thousands of dollars for passing along
inside information about player injuries, league directives and
personalities of fellow referees to two ex-classmates for use in
making bets. He pleaded guilty in August 2007 to federal fraud
and conspiracy charges.  Donaghy argued that other referees were engaged in
wrongdoing. The league denied the claims, saying prosecutors and
an NBA-commissioned investigation concluded that no other
officials were involved.  Biancullo said he’d like to have Donaghy back at work
whenever the court allows.  “I looked at Tim as an asset, a marketing tool,” he said.
“He helped me make a lot of money for my clients.”  The case is U.S. v. Donaghy, 07-cr-00587, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  New York  (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  