-- Fortress Second-Quarter Profit Rises on Private Equity
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r   a n d   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-08-02T15:11:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/fortress-second-quarter-profit-rises-on-private-equity.html
Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) , the
first publicly traded private-equity and hedge-fund manager in
the U.S., said second-quarter profit rose 8.7 percent on higher
incentive income.  Pretax distributable earnings, which exclude some
compensation costs and other items, declined to $50 million, or
9 cents a share, compared with $46 million, or 9 cents, a year
earlier, New York-based Fortress said today in a statement.
Earnings matched the average of seven estimates in a Bloomberg
survey of analysts.  Fortress follows  KKR & Co. (KKR)  in posting higher profit as
strong-performing holdings drove earnings. Incentive income,
which the firm earns depending on fund performance, more than
doubled to $47 million from $20 million a year earlier, helped
by its liquid  hedge funds , credit hedge funds and private equity
funds.  Fortress’s private equity valuations gained 5.4 percent
gain during the quarter, beating declines in global markets.
Assets under management rose 2.9 percent to $47.8 billion during
the quarter.  Fortress rose 2.8 percent to $4.02 at 10:51 a.m. in New
York, bringing gains this year to 19 percent. The stock is  down 
78 percent since Fortress’s February 2007 initial public
offering, when the company sold shares at $18.50 apiece. The
firm said it will pay a dividend of 5 cents a share on Aug. 20.  Mudd’s Resignation  Global hedge funds declined 3 percent on average during the
quarter,  according to  the Bloomberg Active Indexes for Funds, as
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index fell 3.3 percent and the MSCI
ACWI index declined 6.4 percent.  Fortress is being led by co-founder Randal Nardone after
former Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  resigned in January
amid a government lawsuit stemming from his tenure as the chief
of mortgage financing company  Fannie Mae .  Fortress’s alternatives business including hedge funds
gathered $1.1 billion in investor capital during the quarter,
bringing the amount raised for the year to $4 billion. Fortress
raised $267 million for  Newcastle Investment Corp. (NCT) , a publicly-
traded REIT, during the quarter and another $167 million since
then. The firm expects to raise more than $500 million in August
for a private equity fund that will make investments in
mortgage-servicing rights.  KKR, Apollo  KKR said last month that second-quarter profit more than
tripled to $146.3 million as strong performance in its buyout
holdings boosted earnings.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
biggest private-equity firm, reported a 74 percent decline in
profit. Both firms are based in New York.  Och-Ziff Capital Management Group LLC (OZM) , the hedge fund run
by Daniel Och, today reported a 0.7 percent drop in profit on
higher taxes, and  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , Leon Blacks
private-equity firm, said second-quarter profit fell 84 percent
as global market declines hurt its share of profits from
investments.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul and then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. Hedge funds
are mostly private pools of capital whose managers participate
substantially in the profits from their speculation on the price
of assets.  Managers of both types of funds charge annual management
fees, typically 1.5 percent to 2 percent, and receive a portion
of investment gains, traditionally equal to 20 percent.  Fortress in May liquidated its $500 million commodities
fund after losing almost 13 percent in the previous four months,
according to a regulatory filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The vehicle lost 8 percent last year and
was the third commodities hedge fund to shutter in a span of six
weeks, returning money to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net ;
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  