-- U.S. Retailers’ July Same-Store Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-08-02T20:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/gap-limited-july-same-store-sales-top-estimates.html
Gap Inc. (GPS)  and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  led U.S.
retailers in posting July same-store sales that topped analysts’
estimates as promotions and warm weather boosted shopping
traffic.  Sales at Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 10 percent, beating the average projection for a 3.8
percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics
Inc., and sending its shares up by the most in almost four
years. Macy’s, the owner of its namesake and Bloomingdale’s
department stores, posted a 4.1 percent rise in same-store
sales, topping the 2.5 percent average estimate.  Warm weather and higher consumer  sentiment  than a year ago
likely supported summer sales in July, which typically is used
to make way for back-to-school merchandise, Erika Maschmeyer, an
analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Chicago , wrote in a note
before the report. Researcher ShopperTrak estimates U.S. retail
traffic rose 7.4 percent in July.  “Despite a tough economic environment, consumers are
showing they’re tired of the recessionary spending mentality,”
Alden Lury, a retail strategist at Kurt Salmon in New York, said
in a telephone interview. “Signs are pretty positive across the
board, and that bodes well for the holidays.”  Same-store sales for the more than 20 companies tracked by
Retail Metrics rose 4.4 percent last month, beating estimates
for a 1.4 percent increase, the Swampscott, Massachusetts-based
firm said in a report today. The gain, which follows a 0.3
percent increase in June, topped estimates by the widest margin
since the U.S. exited the recession, with 84 percent of
retailers reporting data that exceeded projections, the firm
said.  Macy’s Gains  Gap, based in  San Francisco , soared 13 percent to $33.17 at
the close in New York, the biggest gain for the shares since
November 2008. The stock has rallied 79 percent this year.  Gap  North America  posted the best comparable July sales
with a 13 percent jump, followed by the company’s Old Navy North
America division’s 12 percent increase.  The retailer reported second-quarter sales rose 5.6 percent
to $3.58 billion, topping the $3.52 billion average of analysts’
 estimates  gathered by Bloomberg. The company said in a statement
that profit for the period was as much as 48 cents, exceeding
analysts’ 38-cent average estimate.  Macy’s, based in Cincinnati, jumped 3.8 percent to $36.40.
The company’s same-store sales rose 3 percent in the second
quarter.  “We will continue to gain market share by delivering fresh
fashion, quality merchandise and great value for our
customers,” Chief Executive Officer  Terry Lundgren  said in a
statement today.  Limited Brands  Limited Brands Inc. (LTD) , the operator of the Victoria’s Secret
lingerie chain, posted a 12 percent increase in same-store
sales, topping the 6.2 percent average estimate. The Columbus,
Ohio-based retailer rose 1.9 percent to $47.72.  Limited said in a statement that second-quarter profit
excluding some items was as much as 48 cents a share, surpassing
its forecast of as much as 45 cents and analysts’ 47-cent
average estimate.  Ross Stores Inc. (ROST)  and TJX Cos. also reported July sales that
beat estimates. Sales at both retailers of discounted designer
merchandise rose 7 percent in the month. Analysts estimated
gains of 4.3 percent at Pleasanton, California-based Ross and 5
percent at Framingham, Massachusetts-based TJX.  TJX said second-quarter profit was about 55 cents a share,
topping analysts’ average estimate of 53 cents. The shares rose
2.6 percent to $45.01.  Wet Seal, the women’s apparel chain that fired its CEO last
month, had the biggest same-store sales decline of the chains
tracked by Retail Metrics, with a 16 percent drop. The company’s
shares fell 1.1 percent to $2.74.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. The revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  