-- Spanish Yield Exceeds 7% as Bunds Jump After Draghi Disappoints
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-08-02T16:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/german-bunds-climb-italy-debt-declines-as-draghi-disappoints.html
Spanish and Italian bonds slid as
 Italy ’s Prime Minister said the nation will not ask the European
rescue fund to buy its bonds and as the region’s central bank
failed to persuade investors it can stem the debt crisis.  German  government bonds  jumped and Spanish  10-year yields 
climbed over the 7 percent level that triggered bailouts of
Greece, Ireland and Portugal. European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  signaled the ECB intends to join with governments
to purchase debt to bring down borrowing costs. German, Dutch,
and Finnish two-year yields dropped to records as investors
favored safer assets.  “There were expectations that  Spain  and Italy would signal
they are willing to ask for aid” today, said Mohit Kumar, head
of European fixed-income strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in London.
“When that didn’t happen there was disappointment and you saw
the bonds selling off. It’s only a matter of a few days or a few
weeks until Spain asks for a bond-buying program.”  Spain’s 10-year bond yield surged 43 basis points, or 0.43
percentage point, to 7.17 percent at 5 p.m. London time. The
5.85 percent bond due January 2022 tumbled 2.795, or 27.95 euros
per 1,000-euro ($1,215) face amount, to 91.12.  Similar-maturity Italian yields jumped 40 basis points to
6.33 percent. They earlier fell as much as 20 basis points.  Consideration ‘Premature’  “Any consideration in that sense is premature,”  Mario Monti  told reporters in  Madrid  after meeting Spanish premier
 Mariano Rajoy . “Our intention is to work with the other
governments so that  Europe  has that instrument and solid
finances,” he said.  While Rajoy today welcomed Draghi’s comments, he declined
to say whether Spain will ask the bailout fund to buy its bonds.  The German 10-year  yield  dropped 14 basis points to 1.23
percent after earlier rising as much as six basis points. The
 two-year yield  declined one basis point to minus 0.089 percent
after falling to 0.097 percent, matching a record low.  Speaking in  Frankfurt  after the central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at 0.75 percent, Draghi told
reporters that ECB bond purchases would probably focus on
shorter-maturities and wouldn’t break European Union rules
prohibiting the financing of government deficits.  “All we have had so far from Draghi are words, no
actions,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at
Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “Nothing
structural is being presented, other than possibilities, which
are down the line.”  ‘First Reaction’  The euro strengthened to a four-week high of $1.2405 as
Draghi began his press conference, before sliding through $1.22
less than 30 minutes later.  “The first reaction was positive when Draghi announced
that the ECB could imagine buying bonds,” said Christian Lenk,
an analyst at DZ Bank AG in Frankfurt. “The market had hoped
for more, for a concrete number that they would buy, and now
things are turning around. The volatility shows a bit of
disappointment.”  Draghi disappointed investors by not offering more concrete
steps,  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said in an interview with
 Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop.”  “We were hoping for, at least temporarily, some type of
specific effort on the part of the central banks,” said Gross,
whose company is based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  Draghi said last week that policy makers would do
“whatever it takes” within the ECB’s mandate to save the
currency bloc.  ‘Unrealistic Expectations’  “Draghi created unrealistic expectations among investors
but failed to announce concrete measures significant enough to
reassure investors,” said Stephanie Kretz, a strategist in
London at Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie., which manages
$174 billion. “One unintended consequence might be that next
time the ECB wants to calm markets, his words won’t carry the
same effect.”  Spain’s bonds rose earlier as the nation sold 3.13 billion
euros of bonds, more than the maximum target of 3 billion euros.  The Treasury in Madrid auctioned 10-year bonds at an
average yield of 6.647 percent, compared with 6.43 percent at
the previous sale on July 5. Spain also sold notes maturing in
October 2016 and July 2014.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Italy and the Netherlands, according
to measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year
securities and credit-default swaps.  Portuguese 10-year bonds stayed higher after  Standard &
Poor’s  affirmed the nation’s credit ratings. The outlook on the
nation’s BB long-term ranking and B short-term classification
remains negative, the ratings company said.  The yield on Portugal’s 10-year bond declined three basis
points to 11.04 percent.  German debt has returned 3.6 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
bonds dropped 4.7 percent, while Italy’s debt rose 8.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  