-- Germany Retains Stable AAA S&P Outlook  After Moody’s Cut
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-08-02T02:42:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/germany-retains-stable-aaa-outlook-at-s-p-after-moody-s-cut.html
Germany  retained a stable outlook for
its top  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s just over a week
after Moody’s Investors Service warned that the nation’s Aaa
grade was at risk.  The long-term debt sovereign rating for  Europe ’s largest
economy was maintained at AAA, S&P said in a statement today.  “In our view, Germany has a highly diversified and
competitive economy with a demonstrated ability to absorb large
economic and financial shocks,” S&P said. “The outlook on the
long-term rating remains stable, reflecting our view that
Germany’s public finances and strong external balance sheet will
continue to withstand potential financial and economic shocks.”  Germany is the largest contributor to Europe’s bailout
packages for  Greece  and a collapse of that nation’s economy and
its possible exit from the euro area may weigh on Chancellor
German Angela Merkel’s administration. European Central Bank
policy makers will meet today to discuss ways to tackle the
region’s debt crisis, which is threatening to cripple  Spain  and
Italy and tear the 17-nation euro area apart.  Moody’s on July 23 lowered the outlook for the Aaa credit
ratings of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative,
citing “rising uncertainty” over Europe’s debt woes. It left
 Finland  as the only country in the 17-nation euro region with a
stable outlook for its top ranking.  Utility of Ratings  Bond-market history indicates that the utility of sovereign
ratings may be limited. Almost half the time, yields on
 government bonds  fall when a rating action by S&P and Moody’s
suggests they should climb, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 314 upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going
back as far as the 1970s.  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose.  Germany’s bonds have also rallied since the Moody’s release,
with yields on two-year notes reaching a  record low  of negative
0.097 percent this week.  The Moody’s announcement prompted Merkel’s government to
say Germany will remain Europe’s haven during the financial
crisis and the country remains “in a very sound economic and
financial situation.”  Debt Ratio  S&P projects Germany’s general government debt ratio to
remain over 80 percent until 2013, before declining to 77
percent in 2015 as the deficit shrinks.  “Although Germany’s debt is higher than that of some other
AAA-rated sovereigns, we believe its diverse and resilient
economic structure and cheap access to capital-market funding
facilitate a higher debt-bearing capacity than many of its AAA
peers,” S&P said today.  A “deepening and prolongation” of the crisis could hit
Germany’s economy in other ways, S&P said. While direct exports
to  Italy , Spain,  Portugal , Ireland and Greece were less than 5
percent of German gross domestic product in 2011, the exposure
of its financial institutions to strained euro-area economies
remains substantial, it said.  German commercial bank claims on Italy, Spain, Portugal,
Ireland, Greece and Cyprus totaled 448 billion ($549 billion)
euros at the end of March 2012, or 17 percent of GDP, S&P said,
citing Bank for International Settlements data.  S&P said it could lower Germany’s rating if the net general
government debt ratio reaches 100 percent of GDP, from less than
80 percent of GDP currently.  “This could occur, for example, if consistently larger-
than-anticipated deficits surpass 3 percent of GDP, which is
well above the constitutional limit,” according to S&P. “An
unexpected surge in contingent liabilities could also create
downward pressure on the ratings,” it said, adding that it
doesn’t expect the scenarios to materialize over the outlook
horizon of as long as 24 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  