-- German Solar Installs Double in Setback to Angela Merkel
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-08-02T15:03:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/german-solar-pv-installs-doubled-to-2-4-gw-grid-regulator-says.html
German installations of photovoltaic
solar panels more than doubled in the first half, a setback for
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s effort to damp surging industry
growth that’s being subsidized by electricity consumers.  About 4.37 gigawatts of solar panels were installed, above
a government target of 2.5 to 3.5 gigawatts for the whole year.
About 1.71 gigawatts were connected in the period last year,
federal grid regulator Bundesnetzagentur said on its  website .  “We could see another record year in  Germany ,” Martin Simonek, an analyst for London-based researcher Bloomberg New
Energy Finance, said today by phone. “Developers can source
panels at very low costs so even with the current monthly
subsidy reductions, the German market remains very much alive.”  Merkel is trying to contain growth on concern that it is
increasing power bills. Installations in the largest market by
total capacity reached a record 7.5 gigawatts in 2011. The
government and opposition in June agreed to monthly reductions
to solar subsidies taking effect, retroactively, from April.  About 1.79 gigawatts of panels were added in June as
developers rushed to connect plants before an extension of the
subsidies ended at the month’s end. Further gains may come in
September as regional and central governments in arbitration
agreed to give developers of large-scale ground-mounted plants
until the end of the month to connect projects, Simonek said.  New Energy Finance forecasts installations of 6 gigawatts
to 8 gigawatts this year, and 2.5 gigawatts to 3.5 gigawatts in
2013, in line with Merkel’s target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  