-- MGIC Plunges as Insurer Breaches Capital Limit After Loss
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-08-02T20:56:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/mgic-plunges-as-mortage-insurer-s-quarterly-loss-widens.html
MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  plunged by more
than half after the Milwaukee-based mortgage insurer reported
its largest loss since 2009 and the company’s risk-to-capital
ratio breached regulatory standards.  MGIC  fell  64 percent to close at 88 cents in New York, its
biggest one-day drop since going public in 1991, after posting a
net loss of $273.9 million compared with $151.7 million a year
earlier. The cost to protect the debt of MGIC from default
soared.  The firm is counting on sales of new policies to help
rebuild capital after the deepest housing crash in seven decades
drained liquidity at mortgage insurers including MGIC, which
cover losses when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to
recoup costs. MGIC’s preliminary ratio of risk to capital for
combined operations rose to 30-to-1 as of June 30 from 22.2-to-1
at March 31, exceeding the 25-to-1 level required by some
regulators to write new policies, the firm said today in a
statement. The company said it has received waivers from some
overseers to continue sales,  “This is an extremely troubled company and its ongoing
viability, obviously the markets are putting a big question mark
about that,” said  Rob Haines , an analyst at CreditSights Inc.
“It seems like it’s inevitable that the company will ultimately
end up in some kind of regulatory receivership.”  ‘Sufficient’ Resources  Chief Executive Officer Curt Culver said the company’s
results were hurt by a “lackluster economic recovery” in the
U.S. The insurer has enough cash to meet obligations to clients,
he said.  “There is no liquidity issue at the insurance operation,”
Culver, 60, said on a conference call with analysts. “We have
sufficient claims-paying resources to meet all obligations to
policyholders.”  Mortgage-guarantor  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ)  filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in November and  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC)  stopped selling
new policies in 2008 as capital ran short. Losses also prompted
 Old Republic International Corp. (ORI)  to retreat from the business.  Falling capital levels may restrict the company’s ability
to sell new policies, Mark Devries, an analyst at Barclays Plc,
wrote in a research note today.  MGIC said that capital levels at its insurer fell short of
regulatory requirements in  Wisconsin , its main overseer, by $211
million. The state’s insurance regulator has waived the capital
requirement until Dec. 31, 2013 as long as MGIC has capital
“reasonably in excess of a level that would constitute a
financially hazardous condition,” according to the statement.  ‘No Surprises’  J.P. Wieske, a spokesman for the Wisconsin insurance
regulator, said MGIC’s reported loss doesn’t change its view on
the company.  “The earnings that they reported are within the
expectations that we had, so there are no surprises for us,”
Wieske said in a telephone interview. “It does not raise any
red flags for us, so at this point, we don’t have any
concerns.”  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)   slid  14 percent to $2.69 in New York
trading, the most since November, erasing yesterday’s rally that
came as delinquencies declined at the Philadelphia-based
mortgage insurer.  Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , which yesterday said
it faces obstacles in separating its money-losing mortgage-
guaranty business, lost 8 percent to $4.12, the lowest since May
6, 2009.  Swaps Soar  Credit-default swaps tied to MGIC increased 9.6 percentage
points to 40.8 percent upfront, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. That’s in addition
to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $4.08 million
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of the
company’s debt for five years.  Credit-default swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  