-- Global Investors Cut Korean Stock Holdings, Add Bonds in July
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/global-investors-cut-korean-stock-holdings-add-bonds-in-july.html
Overseas funds pulled money from
South Korean stocks for a fourth month in July and boosted
holdings of local-currency bonds as  Europe ’s debt crisis damped
demand for riskier assets.  International investors, led by funds in the U.K.,  Cayman
Islands  and  France , reduced ownership of equities by 710 billion
won ($628 million), the  Financial Supervisory Service  said in an
e-mailed statement today. Foreigners increased holdings of
fixed-income securities by 1.4 trillion won to a record 89.7
trillion won, after cutting ownership in June, the FSS said in
the statement.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  pledged on
July 26 to do whatever it takes to preserve the euro, while the
 International Monetary Fund  said four days later that an orderly
adjustment process to resolve Europe’s crisis is likely to be
prolonged and costly. The yield on South Korea’s three-year
government bonds declined 45 basis points last month to 2.85
percent, the biggest drop for a benchmark  note  of that maturity
since December 2008.  “We saw investors’ extreme preference for safer assets
last month,” Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  at Seoul-based KTB
Asset Management Co., which oversees $5.8 billion in assets,
said in an interview yesterday. “Since Draghi’s comments, risk
appetite appears to be coming back a bit.”  Risk Averse  Foreign holdings of South Korean equities amounted to 379.9
trillion won at the end of July, accounting for 31.6 percent of
shares listed on the Korea Exchange. The Kospi index of shares
touched a nine-month low on July 25.  The won advanced 1.3 percent to 1,130.55 per dollar in July,
following a 3.1 percent gain in June, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Investors from  Norway  were the biggest buyers of Korean
debt in July, raising holdings by 1.5 trillion won, according to
today’s statement. Funds from  China  and France followed,
increasing ownership by 447 billion won and 195 billion won,
respectively. The biggest sellers were from the U.S., Australia
and Malaysia.  U.S. benchmark 10-year bond yields were 1.5 percent on Aug.
1, compared with 3.14 percent for similar-maturity South Korean
notes. Investors including global central banks were attracted
by the relatively high yields on offer, the financial regulator
said in its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  