-- Gloves Off in Draghi-Weidmann Clash Over Bond Purchases
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-08-02T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/gloves-off-in-draghi-weidmann-clash-over-bond-purchases.html
When  Mario Draghi  took the helm of
the  European Central Bank  nine months ago, he took care not to
alienate Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann. Now the gloves are
coming off.   Draghi yesterday announced the ECB is working on a plan to
re-enter bond markets and took the unusual step of naming
Weidmann as the only policy maker to object to the proposal.
While the move would ratchet up the ECB’s response to Europe’s
debt crisis, it risks isolating the German central bank,
potentially undermining the effectiveness of the new measures.  “That’s why investors are disappointed,” said  Alexander Krueger , chief economist at Bankhaus Lampe KG in Dusseldorf.
“The ECB can’t just take random measures against the
Bundesbank’s will. The country with the largest economy needs to
be part of any package.”  The euro dropped yesterday, with the standoff between
Draghi and Weidmann adding to uncertainty around the latest
effort to tame a debt crisis that’s threatening the survival of
the single currency. Weidmann must now decide whether to
acquiesce to a new bond program or dig his heels in. Two German
policy makers have already quit the ECB’s Governing Council over
bond buying.  Draghi said new purchases in the secondary market would
only complement buying by  Europe ’s rescue fund in the primary
market, to which strict conditionality is attached. ECB
officials are working on the plan and details will be fleshed
out in coming weeks.  Prussian Helmet  While Draghi’s comments suggest Weidmann has lost the
support of traditional allies on the council such as the
Netherlands,  Luxembourg  and  Finland , the Bundesbank president
may have German public opinion behind him.  The country’s mass-selling Bild tabloid yesterday protested
the bond-purchase plan, saying “no more German money for
bankrupt states, Herr Draghi!” and threatening to take back the
Prussian helmet it gave him to remind him of  German virtues .  While Weidmann only has one vote on the ECB’s 23-member
council, “the Bundesbank veto matters a lot in this,” said
 Julian Callow , chief European economist at Barclays Plc in
London. “We need to know exactly how the Bundesbank is
appraising things.”  A Bundesbank spokesman declined to comment on Weidmann’s
position yesterday. Last week the bank reiterated its opposition
to ECB bond purchases after Draghi flagged the initiative in a
speech in London.  ‘Greater Say’  “We are the largest and most important central bank in the
Eurosystem and we have a greater say than many other central
banks in the Eurosystem,” Weidmann said in an interview
published by the Bundesbank on Aug. 1. The ECB’s independence
“requires it to respect and not overstep its own mandate,” he
said.  German ECB officials have been the most vocal opponents to
the bank’s bond purchases, saying they blur the line between
monetary and fiscal policy and relieve pressure on governments
to enact reforms. Weidmann’s predecessor  Axel Weber  and ECB
Chief Economist  Juergen Stark  both resigned last year over the
original program, which was launched in May 2010 and shelved in
March this year.  “It’s known that Mr. Weidmann and the Bundesbank have their
reservations about programs that buy bonds,” Draghi told
reporters, breaching the convention of not revealing how
individual policy makers vote. The ECB doesn’t publish minutes
of its meetings to protect council members from political
interference.  Name-Checked  “Weidmann was unhappy before but he’s probably even more
unhappy now after being name-checked like that by Draghi,” said
 Jacques Cailloux , chief European economist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “The Bundesbank has to live with
being outvoted, but it remains to be seen whether it really goes
to the wire, blocks the program and refuses to buy the bonds.”  Under the previous program, national central banks in the
euro area bought bonds on behalf of the ECB, with the Bundesbank
as the largest shareholder making the lion’s share of the
purchases.  The Bundesbank may still have brought its influence to bear
by delaying a formal decision before ECB working groups have
designed a concrete plan, said  Erik Nielsen , chief economist at
UniCredit Bank AG in London.  “This smacks of a compromise forced by the Bundesbank,”
he said. “It buys time. The risk is that the ECB has now backed
itself into a corner, whereby the committees can’t really agree
on what’s needed.”  At his first press conference as ECB president on Nov. 3,
Draghi was asked how he viewed the monetary policy principles
of the Bundesbank in view of some suggestions in  Germany  that
his predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet , had diverged from them.
Draghi stressed his “great admiration for the tradition of the
Bundesbank.”  “As for the future, let me do my work and we will have
periodic checks as to whether I am in sync with this tradition
or deviating from it,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in  London  at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  