-- GM Quarterly Profit Falls 38% as Europe Woes Seen Lasting
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-08-03T01:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/gm-profit-falls-on-smaller-than-projected-european-loss.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , struggling to
turn around its money-losing Opel unit, said second-quarter
profit slid 38 percent as losses widened in  Europe  where the
auto market is heading toward its fifth year of sales declines.  Net income declined to $1.85 billion from $2.99 billion a
year earlier, Detroit-based GM said yesterday in a statement.
Excluding dividends and other costs related to preferred stock,
profit slipped to 90 cents a share, down from $1.54 a year
earlier. That beat the 75-cent average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  GM, which rebounded from bankruptcy three years ago to
become the world’s No. 1 automaker in 2011, now faces rising
losses in Europe and a stagnating  China  market. The overseas
challenges threaten to undercut the company’s recovery even as
its domestic market is on pace for the best year since 2007.  “Europe continues to be extremely challenging which makes
our outlook for the year uncertain,” Dan Ammann, GM chief
financial officer, said yesterday during a conference call with
analysts.  The operating loss before interest and taxes in Europe,
including Opel, totaled $361 million compared with a $102
million profit a year earlier, GM said. While the performance
beat the $440 million average operating loss estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, Ammann wouldn’t predict second-
half results or when the unit will return to profit.  GM’s revenue declined 4.5 percent to $37.6 billion. The
average estimate of six analysts was for $38.6 billion. GM said
the decrease reflected the strong  U.S. dollar .  European Losses  The revenue at GM Europe plunged $1.57 billion, 21 percent,
during the quarter to $5.89 billion. About $800 million of the
decline was because of lower vehicle sales, Ammann said on the
call.  “We’re taking a lot of very decisive actions around Europe
and we have been for a number of quarters now,” Ammann told
reporters earlier. “If we’re talking about the general European
economy and the industry overall, we continue to see a very
challenging environment in the second half.”  The company’s second-quarter European vehicle production
fell 29 percent from the year-earlier period to 230,000
vehicles. GM’s market share dropped to 8.8 percent from 9
percent, the company said.  “European losses were better than we expected, but we
suspect due in large part to inventory build that must come
out” during the second half of the year, Adam Jonas, an analyst
with Morgan Stanley, said yesterday in a note to investors.
Second-quarter results “may trigger some relief, but we don’t
think the numbers mark a strong enough inflection to offset
macro concerns.”  ‘Gain Traction’  GM saw a benefit of $100 million in material and
manufacturing costs in Europe as “our cost actions gain
traction,” Ammann said on the call. The company was also able
to offset volume and mix losses from the introduction of higher
priced vehicles, he said.  “We still have work to do on both the dealer and the
company-owned inventory and we expect to address that through
the third and fourth quarters,” Ammann said.  GM fell 2.6 percent to $19.14 yesterday in  New York . The
shares have  tumbled  42 percent since its November 2010 initial
public offering.  The second-quarter results, GM’s 10th straight profitable
quarter, were helped by continued profits in  North America  and
 Asia  where sales have been growing. Adjusted operating profit in
North America fell 13 percent to $1.97 billion and in Asia slid
2.8 percent to $557 million. GM had an operating loss in  South
America  of $19 million compared with a profit of $57 million in
the year-earlier quarter.  North America  After dividends and other costs related to preferred stock,
GM reported a second-quarter profit of $1.5 billion attributable
to common stockholders.  GM’s North America operating profit declined because of
lower truck production during the quarter and less pension
income, Ammann said. Automakers record revenue when vehicles are
produced and shipped to dealers.  The automaker is monitoring whether demand in its home
market may weaken, its North American chief said.  “The concern is there” about a slowdown in the  U.S.
economy  and auto market during the third quarter,  Mark Reuss ,
president of GM North America, said in an interview. “The
volatility here is big. It’s election time, it’s all of that
stuff. We’re looking at what the Fed’s doing.”  Delayed Spending  GM’s North American profits rose 17 percent from the first
quarter. The company said the sequential gain was because some
spending was delayed to the third quarter. GM said it expects
the average adjusted earnings of the second and third quarters
to be comparable to the first quarter. Its forecast in May was
that all three quarters would be similar.  GM ended the second quarter with $32.6 billion in cash and
marketable securities, the company said. That’s an increase from
$31.5 billion at the end of the first quarter.  Stemming losses in Europe is just one challenge before
Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson. He’s also grappling with
declining market share in the U.S., slowing growth in China and
the ramifications of ousting his chief marketing officer,  Joel Ewanick , this week. At least four top executives at GM’s Opel
unit, based in Ruesselsheim,  Germany , are being replaced.  “People want to get a sense for how bad Europe is going to
get,” Colin Langan, an industry analyst at UBS Securities LLC,
said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think many people will
disagree it’s going to be negative for at least several more
years. But it’s a question of how negative and how much of a
drag it’s going to be.”  ‘Embedded Value’  Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn , chairman of  Greenlight
Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , said on a conference call this week that GM is
poised to rebound because there “is further embedded value.”  GM’s $18.80 close on July 25 was the lowest since the IPO.
The U.S. Treasury Department sold 28 percent of GM at $33 a
share in the offering and still holds a  32 percent  stake,
acquired as part of the $50 billion bailout by the Obama
administration.  “The biggest fear is the unknown of the macro economy as
it relates to Europe,” Ammann said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance.” “No one knows what the bottom is
as it pertains to Europe.”  GM lost $16.8 billion in Europe since 1999 through the
first half.  Langan, the UBS analyst, increased estimated full-year
losses for  GM Europe  to $1.6 billion from $1.3 billion earlier
this year.  ‘Five Years’  “I’m baking in a loss in Europe for the next five years,”
he said. “They have a long way to go in Europe. The problem
with Europe is that maybe the market itself won’t collapse this
year but it’s probably not going to recover so it’s going to be
stagnation.”  Morgan Stanley’s Jonas also increased his estimate for GM
losses in Europe this year to $1.4 billion, he said in an
interview last week. He previously lowered the projection to $1
billion after starting the year at $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.  European economic weakness may affect the second half of
the year, Akerson said June 28 in  Chicago .  GM’s global sales rose 2.9 percent to 4.67 million vehicles
during the first half of the year. The automaker was helped its
Chevrolet brand, which had its best quarter on record, the
company said, with global sales rising 2.3 percent to 1.3
million during April through June.  GM’s pace of growth isn’t fast enough to keep ahead of
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  globally. Toyota’s worldwide sales surged 34
percent in 2012’s first half to 4.97 million, putting the Toyota
City, Japan-based company on pace to regain the top spot.  “Most of our key metrics were unfavorable compared with a
year ago,” Akerson said yesterday. “That’s not acceptable to
this leadership team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Detroit at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  