-- Goldman Leads Foreign Banks Accelerating Job Cuts in Japan
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-08-02T08:53:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/goldman-sachs-leads-foreign-banks-accelerating-job-cuts-in-japan.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  led foreign
banks in accelerating job cuts at their Japanese brokerages last
fiscal year as employees relocated to other Asian financial
centers and firms trimmed costs amid a global industry slump.  The number of staff at nine global securities firms in
Japan fell by 537, or 7.3 percent, to a combined 6,796 as of
March 31, more than double the previous year’s 3.2 percent
reduction, according to company regulatory filings.  Wall Street and European banks have been eliminating jobs
and transferring staff from Japan to Hong Kong and Singapore to
reduce expenses as the euro region’s debt woes dent global
investor confidence. The worst may be over as Japan recovers
from last year’s nuclear crisis and some U.S. firms start hiring
junior bankers for mergers advice and asset management, said
Katsunobu Komizo, a Tokyo-based recruiting consultant.  “Overseas banks made deep cuts from October to March due
to the Fukushima and European shocks, especially in  investment
banking  such as equity underwriting,” said Komizo, president of
 Executive Search Partners Co.  “But we’ve past the peak.”  Stock underwriting in Japan suffered last year as companies
shunned capital markets after the March 2011 earthquake and
tsunami that left 19,000 people dead or missing and caused a
meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant north of Tokyo.
Public offerings fell to 1.2 trillion yen ($15 billion) in the
year ended March from 4 trillion yen a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most Expensive  Tokyo is the world’s most expensive city for expatriates,
according to ECA International’s Worldwide Cost of Living Survey
conducted in March. Singapore is 32nd and  Hong Kong  36th. The
yen touched a postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar in
October, raising costs for overseas banks and their foreign
staff. Japan’s currency traded at 78.43 at 5:45 p.m. local time.  Goldman Sachs Japan Co. reduced headcount by 14 percent to
847, the biggest cut among the brokerages, according to the
firm’s filing e-mailed to Bloomberg News. The New York-based
company has other operations in Japan, including asset
management.  Hiroko Matsumoto, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs in Tokyo,
declined to comment. Tokyo-based spokesmen for the eight other
brokerages also declined to comment.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-biggest
lender, pared the workforce at its Japanese brokerage by 8.6
percent to 540.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  reduced 7.9 percent of staff at
its local securities unit to 834 and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) , France’s
largest bank, cut 7.4 percent to 462.  Barclays, Citigroup  Barclays Plc,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  also trimmed jobs at
their securities units in Japan, according to the filings to the
Financial Services Agency. Bank of America employed 1,028 staff
at its Japan brokerage as of March 31, the most of the nine
firms.  The brokerages posted combined profits in Japan of 2.9
billion yen for the fiscal year, recovering from losses of 118.6
billion yen a year earlier, the filings showed. Morgan Stanley’s
local joint venture with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. led
the gains with net income of 34.6 billion yen.  Barclays (BARC) , the U.K.’s second-largest bank, posted net income
of 5.5 billion yen in Japan, the second highest among the nine
brokerages and up from 56 million yen a year earlier. Profit at
Goldman Sachs Japan fell to 4.7 billion yen from 18.1 billion
yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  