-- Li Ka-Shing Says Europe Debt Crisis Won’t Halt Hutchison Growth
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-02T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/li-ka-shing-says-europe-debt-crisis-won-t-halt-hutchison-growth.html
Li Ka-shing , Asia’s richest man, said
 Europe ’s debt crisis won’t derail the growth prospects of his
$68 billion empire, which includes U.K.’s biggest container
port, utility assets and phone businesses in the region.  The 84-year old, who controls  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and
 Cheung Kong (Holdings) Ltd. (1) , told reporters in  Hong Kong 
yesterday that at least 95 percent of his businesses will grow
annually over the next few years. He also said  China’s economy 
will expand at least 7.5 percent this year.  Li made his forecasts after both his companies reported
first-half profit yesterday that beat analyst estimates, boosted
by earnings from U.K. utilities, Hong Kong office rents and
retail stores in  China . Nicknamed “superman” by the local
media for his investing prowess, Li forecast in 2007 that
China’s stock-market bubble would burst and in 2009 predicted
the rally in Hong Kong home prices.  “He’s building this prediction on the assumption that the
debt crisis in Europe won’t get much worse,”  Ben Kwong , chief
operating officer at KGI Asia Ltd., said in Hong Kong. “He
never made it too plain, but at his best he’s been pretty good
at forecasting the macro economy.”  Hutchison, Li’s biggest company, posted  income  of HK$10.2
billion ($1.3 billion), beating the HK$9.55 billion median of
five analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Cheung
Kong , Hong Kong’s  second-biggest  developer, said profit was
HK$15.5 billion, compared with the HK$11 billion  estimate .  Cheung Kong’s shares have risen 11 percent this year, the
second least in the seven-member Hang Seng Property Index, which
gained 13 percent. Hutchison has gained 5.5 percent this year,
compared with the 6.8 percent increase in the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Expects Growth  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis, which prompted European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  to promise action last week,
is threatening to cripple Spain and Italy and tear the 17-nation
euro area apart.  “We know what the situation in Europe is like,” Li said.
“We can handle the environment now. I’ll say that even about
retail. We are 100 percent sure that our infrastructure business
will keep growing. We can say the same about the container
ports.”  Hutchison, with investments in ports, telecommunications,
utilities, retail, property and energy in more than 50
countries, yesterday said its mobile-phone service unit boosted
profit before interest and tax by more than 51 percent from a
year ago. The port business saw a 15 percent gain in pre-tax
earnings, and said it will keep looking for expansion
opportunities.  Expansion Plans  Hutchison is interested in acquiring a stake in Manchester
Airports Group, Managing Director Canning Fok said on July 29.
Manchester is one of Britain’s busiest airports outside of
 London . Phone unit 3 Austria is seeking European regulatory
approval to acquire Orange Austria in a transaction valued at
1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  “Many people thought that our figures would definitely be
low for Europe,” said Li. “All our businesses in Europe did
better this year than in last. This is very rare.”  In Hong Kong, Cheung Kong sold a total of 1,408 units for
HK$12.5 billion in the first half, the second most among all
builders in the city, according to figures compiled by Centaline
Property Agency Ltd.  Earnings from property rentals for the landlord to Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Barclays Plc in Hong Kong increased to
HK$982 million from HK$919 million, Cheung Kong said yesterday.  Hong Kong home prices have risen 10 percent this year on
low  mortgage rates , even as property transactions slowed.  Flower Factory  Li, who opened a plastic flower factory after World War II,
began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967 after riots
from China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices to build
Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of $30.6 billion.  Li, who’s 14th on the Bloomberg Billionaire Index with a
net worth of $24.1 billion, last month transferred a one-third
stake in a family trust that controls both Cheung Kong and
Hutchison Whampoa from son Richard to elder brother Victor, as
he seeks to consolidate succession planning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  