-- Higher One College-Payments Company Said to Seek Buyout
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-08-02T14:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/higher-one-college-payments-company-said-to-seek-buyout.html
Higher One Holdings Inc. (ONE) , the
college-payment processor founded by three Yale students, is
seeking a buyer and has contacted private-equity firms, said
three people with knowledge of the discussions.  Higher One is using Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to canvass
potential buyers, said the people, who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the matter is private. The  New Haven ,
Connecticut-based company’s  market value  topped $600 million
yesterday.  Higher One vies with units of  SLM Corp. (SLM)  and  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) , helping schools issue bills and process
tuition payments and refunds online and serving about 6.2
million students and more than 800 campuses. The company also
offers online banking and debit-card services to students.  The shares rose 7.7 percent to $11.98 at 10:54 a.m. in  New
York  after earlier climbing as much as 22 percent.  Ken Goff, a Higher One spokesman, said it’s the company’s
policy not to comment on “rumor or speculation.”  “We continue to be committed to our market and serving our
customers,” he added. Tiffany Galvin of Goldman Sachs declined
to comment.  Regulatory scrutiny prompted at least one private-equity
firm to end talks with Higher One, one of the people said. In
May, the U.S. Public Interest Research Group said in a  report 
that campus debit-card programs sometimes charge fees that are
“unnecessary and unfair” and that the companies use
“aggressive” marketing.  Higher One Scrutiny  The report highlighted Higher One’s role, saying one in
eight recipients of federal financial aid receive disbursements
through a Higher One account. Two Democratic lawmakers in June
 asked  the Department of Education and the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau to look into PIRG’s findings.  Mark Volchek, Higher One’s chief executive officer, said in
a June presentation to analysts that some of the PIRG report’s
conclusions were overblown or didn’t apply to Higher One.
Volchek founded the company in 2000 with fellow students Miles
Lasater and Sean Glass.  Lightyear Capital LLC, a New York-based private-equity
firm, is Higher One’s largest  shareholder , with a stake of more
than 25 percent as of March, according to a regulatory filing.
The holding stems from a $75 million investment in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  