-- Migrants Exit Guangdong as Chinese Powerhouse Turns Laggard
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-03T08:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/migrants-exit-guangdong-as-china-powerhouse-turns-growth-laggard.html
Liao Ping says it’s like winning the
lottery when he convinces a worker to accept a job offer for
Luyang Shoes Co. at his roadside stand in  China ’s southern
 Guangdong province . “Sometimes I get two in a day, most times
the result is zero.”  The region that drove China’s rise after market barriers
started coming down in 1978 is among the nation’s slowest-
growing as faltering demand cuts  exports  and workers exit for
the central and western areas powering the nation’s expansion.  Deserted factories and worker dormitories litter the
Guangdong manufacturing hub of Dongguan, where walls are
plastered with recruitment posters. The province is set for the
weakest full-year expansion since 1989 as toy, shoe and textile
industries move inland or abroad and a transformation to higher-
value production and services remains unfinished.  “It’s painful, and the process of economic upgrading is
not smooth, but it’s the only way of moving forward,” said
Cheng Jiansan, a researcher with the Guangdong Academy of Social
Sciences who studies Pearl River Delta economies and has advised
provincial leaders over the past decade. “The current slowdown
in external demand may help us in the long-run as low-end
production will exit.”  The province’s 7.4 percent growth in the first half
compares with full-year rates as high as 23 percent in the early
1990s when  investment  was pouring in from  Taiwan  and  Hong Kong 
and millions of migrant workers were chasing jobs. The picture
is bleaker now in some pockets, with Dongguan’s expansion just
2.5 percent in the first half.  Perks for Workers  Local numbers for gross domestic product can be overstated,
according to Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist for Bank of
America Corp. Added up, they amount to more than the central
government’s calculation of the  national total .  Wearing plastic sandals in the tropical heat, Liao has time
to talk as he sits on a stool on the street in Chiling, part of
Dongguan. A green board leans against his desk advertising base
salaries of 2,100  yuan  ($330) a month, free food and
accommodation, 10 days’ paid leave from the second year, and
library and entertainment facilities.  “The factory is always short of hands, but there are not
enough people,” he says.  About 30 kilometers (19 miles) away, at a factory which
formerly made door and window frames, the workers’ basketball
court stands idle and the dormitories are empty. The compound is
locked, windows and doors are smashed and pages from the June 9,
2011, edition of the Guangzhou Daily are plastered over the
guardhouse windows. Hand-written posters say “plant for rent.”  Dream of Leaving  Hu Zhijia, 35, a migrant worker, is cycling from one
factory gate to another, looking for a job that pays at least
3,200 yuan per month. After 14 years in Guangdong, he says his
ambition is like everyone else’s: to make enough money to return
home, in his case  Hunan province .  Guangdong is betting its future on developments such as a
72-square-kilometer  “high-technology zone”  at Songshan Lake,
where Taiwan’s  Wintek Corp. (2384) , a maker of liquid-crystal displays,
is expanding even as it uses  Vietnam  for labor-intensive work.
Qianhai, a 15-square-kilometer zone on the west side of Shenzhen,
is being developed as a financial services center.  Another prospective growth engine: becoming a services hub
for southern China and  Southeast Asia , building on Guangdong’s
existing base in finance, says  Ben Simpfendorfer , an economist
and managing director of Silk Road Associates in Hong Kong.  For now, the province is suffering an expansion rate that
was the second-lowest of China’s provinces and municipalities in
the first half, with only Beijing and  Shanghai  weaker at 7.2
percent, local-government data show.  Facing Facts  Guangdong’s growth compared with top-performer Tianjin’s
14.1 percent. The national expansion was 7.8 percent.  “Guangdong has to face the fact that, for now and the
foreseeable future, growth will be slower than the national
average,” Cheng said, predicting an annual 6 percent expansion
over the next decade.  “The year 2012 is particular severe with about one-third
fewer migrant workers than last year, and the  labor shortage  has
become the No. 1 problem here,” says Chen Jian, a manager with
the Lixiang Human Resources, a labor agency in the downtown area
of Dongguan’s Houjie town. “Labor costs are rising sharply, and
many small factories and labor-intensive businesses are under
huge pressure.”  Migrant worker Guan Shiyou, 25, says his monthly base
salary is 2,400 yuan, more than triple what he earned in
Guangdong a decade ago and comes with free food, accommodation
and overtime pay that he didn’t get when he started. He’d go
home to his village in Guangxi if he could secure a 1,500 yuan
per month job there, he says.  Nowhere Worse  “You can’t find a worse place to recruit labor than in
Dongguan now,” says Deng Bin, the sales manager for Weida
Electronics Factory, a maker of capacitors for electronic
devices which shifted production to Changzhou in Jiangsu
province.  Companies including Dell Inc. and  Intel Corp . are investing
in plants in inland cities. Similarly, Foxconn Technology Group,
the largest assembler of devices for Apple Inc. and Hewlett-
Packard Co., is expanding factories in the provinces of Sichuan
and Henan.  Emptying the cage for new birds is the term used by
Guangdong Communist Party chief  Wang Yang  to describe replacing
low-end producers with manufacturers such as the Shenzhen-based
telecommunications equipment makers  ZTE Corp. (763)  and Huawei
Technologies Co. For Wang, success for the province would
burnish his political career. He’s a candidate to join the
Politburo Standing Committee, Hu Yifan, an economist at
Haitong International Securities Group, said this year.  Race for Patents  Huawei spent 23.7 billion yuan on research and development
last year, according to the company’s website, while ZTE ranked
first in the world for patent applications, according to the
 World Intellectual Property Organization .  ZTE and Huawei “are not Apple or Samsung for now, but
maybe they can be in the future,” said Cheng.  In Houjie, the hotel receptionist with the cigarette tucked
behind his ear is the owner, Deng Ge: he says he can’t find
anyone else to do the 2,000 yuan per month job. Deng reminisces
about the glory days in 2008 before the global financial crisis
hit China.  “Friday and Saturday nights were always fully booked as
young men and women left factory dormitories seeking privacy and
romance,” says Deng, who’s been trying to hire a receptionist
for six months. “This year, even on the best days, I still have
30 percent vacancy.”  Workers’ Views  The notion that Guangdong’s growth model needs to be remade
extends to workers such as Gao Liwen, 43, who says he’s been
here since the early 1990s. He remembers days he was dizzy from
processing as many as 1,800 pairs of shoes on the  production
line .  “China has to move up the value chain -- in my view, the
price of a pair of good-quality shoes should be at least 300 or
400 yuan to foreigners, not a few dollars,” Gao says, adding
that he plans to learn the manufacturing process and then set up
his own shoe factory in Hebei.  “Guangdong is not a land for old people, and I have to
think about the future,” Gao says.  --Zhou Xin in Beijing. With assistance from Kevin Hamlin and
Scott Lanman in Beijing and James Mayger in  Tokyo . Editors: Paul
Panckhurst, Adam Majendie  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zhou Xin in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  