-- Military Groups Oppose Obama Campaign Ohio Early Voter Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-02T01:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/military-groups-oppose-obama-campaign-ohio-early-voter-suit-2-.html
The National Guard Association of the
 United States  and more than a dozen other fraternal military
groups asked a U.S. judge for permission to intervene in and
oppose a lawsuit filed by President  Barack Obama ’s campaign
challenging the fairness of  Ohio ’s early voting rules.  The campaign sued Ohio Attorney General Mike DeWine and
Secretary of State Jon Husted on July 17, claiming the state’s
two-tiered early voting process violates the U.S. Constitution’s
guarantees of equal protection under the law.  State law allows families of armed forces members and
civilians overseas to vote through the Monday before an election
while early voting for all other Ohioans ends the preceding
Friday. The campaign seeks a court order invalidating the
statutes.  “Members of the U.S. Armed Forces risk their lives to keep
this nation safe and defend the fundamental constitutional right
to vote,” the military groups said in in their request to
intervene in the case.  ‘Special Consideration’  “The Obama campaign’s and  Democratic National Committee ’s
argument that it is arbitrary and unconstitutional to afford
special consideration, flexibility, and accommodations to
military voters to make it easier for them to vote in person is
not only offensive, but flatly wrong as a matter of law,” the
groups said.  They’re asking U.S. District Judge Peter C. Economus in
Columbus, Ohio, for permission to join the case on the side of
the state, and to oppose the the Obama campaign’s request for
injunctive relief. A hearing is scheduled for Aug. 15.  The presidential election is set for Nov. 6, a Tuesday.  Ohio, which has 18 electoral votes, has been a bellwether
in U.S. politics and no Republican has been elected president
without a victory there. Obama, a Democrat, won the state in
2008 with 51.5 percent of the vote.  DeWine and Husted also filed papers today opposing the
Obama campaign’s complaint.  Ben LaBolt , press secretary for the Obama For America
campaign organization, and Jen Psaki, a spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately reply after regular business hours to an e-mail
request for comment.  The case is  Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  