-- Millennium & Copthorne Eyes Europe as Asian Hotel Growth Slows
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-08-02T09:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/millennium-copthorne-says-olympics-dent-london-hotel-revenue.html
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Plc (MLC) 
said it will take advantage of low property and hotel prices in
Europe as revenue growth in  Asia  slows and the cost of buying
elsewhere is taking too long to come down.  “We are watching very closely situations in continental
Europe,” Chief Executive Officer Wong Hong Ren said in a
conference call with reporters today. “We are not rushing to
buy anything for the sake of acquisitions, we will always wait
to buy at the right price.”  Millennium & Copthorne had first-half pretax profit of 79
million pounds ($123 million), 1.6 percent down on last year,
while hotel revenue for the same period was unchanged at 366
million pounds, the company said in a statement.  Markets in Asian countries are growing more slowly after
the double-digit growth the company experienced in the last
three quarters, Wong said. Asian operations accounted for 43.6
percent of revenue in 2011, compared with 10.6 percent from
businesses in  Europe .  European buying opportunities come at a time of a worsening
hospitality markets, Wong said. Millennium & Copthorne’s
European hotels saw a decline of 3.3 percent in revenue per
available room.  The U.K. is a particular challenge because of increased
competition and pressure on room rates and occupancy, the
company said in a statement. Revenue per available room in its
London hotels fell by 12.5 percent in the first 24 days of July,
partly because of a slowdown in visitor numbers before the
 Olympic Games , the company said.  Wong said the results were no better than expected,
attributing the slowdown in visitor numbers to a reluctance to
travel to London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  