-- Milne Focuses on Australian Productivity as Greens Woo Business
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-02T09:48:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/milne-focuses-on-australian-productivity-as-greens-woo-business.html
Australia ’s Greens leader  Christine Milne , whose party holds the balance of power in parliament’s
upper house, reached out to business leaders with a pledge to
increase the nation’s productivity and prosperity.  “We want the country to be prosperous as well and lifting
productivity is key to that,” Milne said in a speech today in
 Melbourne  to delegates at the National Small Business Summit.
“We have to make sure we create the best policy framework
within which” small businesses can operate, she said.  Milne’s comments reflect a change in focus from that
adopted by the party’s previous leader  Bob Brown , who
concentrated largely on social and environmental issues. With
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s popularity near a record low,
some Labor members have said the ruling party should distance
itself from the Greens, on whom they rely for a majority in
parliament along with indepenents.  “Milne is attempting to reach out to the business
community and the party’s more moderate voters with a message
that she’s not an extremist,” said  Andrew Hughes , who conducts
political-marketing research at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “If the Greens are to win more votes,
they need to prove they have a wider interest than just
protecting the environment.”  Gillard reneged on an election promise not to implement a
price on  carbon emissions  in exchange for Greens support to form
a government. She has relied on Greens lawmakers to pass tax
legislation on carbon as well as profits of iron-ore and coal
producers. The laws went into effect July 1.  Helping Business  “What I want to hear from small business is ways in which
the Greens can assist,” Milne said. The Greens want to help
smaller companies reduce compliance costs and regulatory hurdles
where possible, she said.  The pro-environment party has one elected member in the
 House of Representatives , Milne’s deputy  Adam Bandt , and nine in
the Senate.  A Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper July 24,
showed Labor was favored by 28 percent of voters, down 3
percentage points from two weeks earlier, compared with 46
percent for the opposition Liberal-National coalition. The
Greens attracted 11 percent, down from the party’s record high
of 16 percent in May 2010.  The Greens leader did fire a shot at the  mining industry .  “We know the power of big business in this country,”
Milne said. “We have seen the mining industry bully governments
and we fully recognize that small business just doesn’t have the
financial firepower that the mining industry has to intimidate
government and force them to make changes.”  Mill Protester  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan has said tycoons at
Australian resource companies are threatening the nation’s
democratic process by attempting to use their wealth to shape
policy.  Milne, 59, led a campaign to halt the construction of a
paper pulp mill near her home in rural Tasmania before being
elected to the state’s parliament in 1989, according to a
biography e-mailed by the Greens. She was elected to the federal
Senate in 2004.  Her comments today come after she said she would focus on
bolstering the Greens’ economic credentials when she won the
party’s leadership in April, following Brown’s retirement.  “I’m hoping that perhaps under my leadership, we can go
out with a stronger articulation, not only of our vision for the
country, but how our economic strategy would support it,” she
told reporters at the time. “The Greens want to look at
economic tools as a way of facilitating outcomes for the
community.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  