-- Tim, America Movil, Oi Brazil Sales Ban Lifted by Agency
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-08-03T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/tim-america-movil-oi-brazil-sales-ban-lifted-by-agency.html
Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,  America Movil
SAB (AMXL)  and  Oi SA (OIBR4)  can restart sales of mobile-phone plans today
across  Brazil , ending an 11-day ban after the companies told the
government they would improve their networks.  In talks with telecommunications regulator Anatel, the
companies committed to reducing dropped calls and improving
customer service, said Joao Rezende, president of the agency.
The carriers pledged to spend a combined 20 billion reais ($9.8
billion) on network upgrades through 2014.  “This improvement plan is the first step,” Rezende told
reporters yesterday in Brasilia. “We’re going to be following
the evolution in network service improvements, keeping a close
eye on the indicators, to make sure the situation doesn’t return
to what it was before the ban.”  The end of the ban, in place since July 23, would ease the
pressure on Rio de Janeiro-based Tim, whose shares fell 23
percent in the month of July amid investor concern the sales ban
would slow the carrier’s growth. Tim, a unit of Milan-based
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , rose 3.6 percent to 9 reais yesterday in Sao
Paulo.  Tim, the second-largest Brazilian carrier behind Telefonica
Brasil SA, had been barred from selling new plans in 18 states
and Brazil’s federal district because of network failures. The
company will spend 8.2 billion reais through 2014 on
improvements, Rezende said. Tim has budgeted 3 billion reais in
 capital expenditures  in 2012, according to its second-quarter
report.  Movil Investment  America Movil  was blocked in Sao Paulo, the most populous
state, and two other states. The company will invest 6.3 billion
reais in its network through 2014, Rezende said. America Movil
has $9.5 billion in capital expenditures planned for this year
across the 18 countries in which it operates.  Oi, whose sales were banned in five states, will make 5.5
billion reais in network investments through 2014, Rezende said.
The company’s capital expenditure budget for this year is 6
billion reais, Chief Financial Officer Alex Zornig confirmed
this week in a conference call.  “The regulatory agency hasn’t done anything that it hasn’t
already done in the past, which is to guarantee good service to
the consumer,” Zornig said yesterday in a phone interview.
“It’s nothing that will affect our results in the future.”  Anatel will monitor dropped calls and network congestion
quarterly, Rezende said. The agency also will keep tabs on each
company’s rate of customer complaints, he said.  Showing Improvement  The carriers should begin showing improvements in  customer
service  over the phone in the next 30 days, and their networks
should begin performing better in four to six months, Rezende
said. If there isn’t improvement, the companies’ sales could be
suspended again, he said.  Both Tim and Rio de Janeiro-based Oi said this week that
the government ban won’t affect their forecasts for sales and
earnings this year. The investment plans they presented to
Anatel won’t require them to increase their budgets for network
upgrades this year, the companies said in conference calls with
analysts.  America Movil, based in Mexico City, doesn’t provide a
forecast for sales and profits. The company isn’t going to
increase its investments based on its talks with Anatel, Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Hajj said last week on a conference
call.  Oi fell 3 percent to 9.15 reais yesterday in  Sao Paulo .
America Movil slid 0.3 percent to 17.59 ($1.32) pesos in Mexico
City.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  