-- IMF Urges Russian Central Bank to Embark on ‘Gradual’ Tightening
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-02T12:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/imf-urges-russian-central-bank-to-embark-on-gradual-tightening.html
The  International Monetary Fund  is
advising a “gradual further tightening” of Russian monetary
policy to keep a lid on prices as the world’s biggest energy
exporter prepares to complete a shift to targeting inflation.  “The challenge in the short term is to manage domestic
demand in order to avoid overheating and in the medium term to
fully realize Russia’s significant growth potential by
maintaining macroeconomic stability, further strengthening the
policy framework, and making decisive progress on structural
reforms,” the Washington-based lender said in a statement
released today.  The IMF predicts Russia’s inflation will accelerate to 6.5
percent by the end of 2012, with real economic growth estimated
at about 4 percent this year and next. Outflows of capital will
probably continue at a “moderating pace,” the fund said.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev has set out to hold
inflation at 5 percent to 6 percent this year after delivering
record-low price growth in 2011, keeping the country on the
sidelines of a global round of monetary stimulus to ease credit
flows and spur economic growth. Bank Rossii isn’t ruling out a
first change to its policy rates this year in August as
inflation risks intensify amid buoyant economic growth, central
bank First Deputy Chairman Alexey Ulyukayev said last month. The
regulator plans to complete a transition to inflation targeting
in 2014.  Russia ’s inflation probably rose in July at the fastest
rate this year, with consumer prices growing 5.8 percent from a
year earlier, up from 4.3 percent in June, according to the
median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
annual rate would be the highest since December.  ‘Nearest Future’  Policy makers voted to hold the refinancing rate at 8
percent, a quarter-point above the record low, at their last
board meeting on July 13. Money-market rates were at an
acceptable level for the “nearest future,” the central bank
said, dropping a reference to the “coming months” used after
every rates meeting this year.  The IMF “noted the significant decline in inflation, but
generally recommended a gradual further tightening of monetary
policy to contain underlying pressures and anchor
expectations,” according to the statement. “Directors also
encouraged continued strengthening of monetary policy tools and
enhanced communication policies to prepare for the successful
adoption of formal inflation targeting by 2014.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  