-- Indian Power Failure Shows Growing Political Gridlock
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-02T23:22:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/indian-power-failure-highlights-growing-political-gridlock-view.html
Frequent power failures are routine
in  India , but this week’s back-to-back blackouts were on a
stunning scale. They shut down half the country and raised
questions about the competence of India’s government.  They also drew attention to broader failings in the
country’s stalled economic reforms.  Two cascading power-grid collapses left more than 640
million  people  without electricity. Factories and hospitals
closed. Trains were halted, traffic clogged the roads, miners
were trapped underground. Pumps stopped, leaving many without
water in stifling summer temperatures. It’s thought to be the
country’s worst power failure.  Accidents, even on such a scale, can happen. India’s energy
system is more susceptible to them because its ordinary
performance is so bad. Dealing with this chronic inefficiency --
an inefficiency that spans India’s public sector -- is a huge
political challenge, and the country’s politicians are failing
to meet it.  On average, India’s peak electricity demand exceeds  supply 
by nearly 10 percent, leading to the system’s repeated failures.
Indians have been complaining about it for decades. According to
the government’s estimates, even routine power interruptions cut
1.2 percentage points from annual  economic growth . Ask foreign
multinationals what deters them from investing in India, or what
holds them back once they’re there, and they almost always
mention erratic power supply.  Ministers have been promising big investments in
electricity supply and distribution since the 1950s. They’ve
broken those promises with equal consistency. The country added
55,000 megawatts of capacity in the past five years -- 30
percent less than planned.  There’s a reason that closing the gap between demand and
supply is so hard. India’s energy system ignores prices and
costs. It’s based on a decades-old Soviet-style system of
command and control. Electricity is deliberately underpriced, a
disguised subsidy that bedevils the country’s fiscal policy as
well as suppresses private energy supply. Even so, theft of
power is rampant. On every street you see a tangle of bootlegged
connections to  power lines . Estimates run as high as 30 percent
of total supply. Even in the relatively well-run state of
Gujarat, about  23 percent  of power generated is lost in the
course of transmission and distribution.  This system offers no incentive for economy in the use of
power, or for investment in new generating and distributive
capacity. This week Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said the
government would look into the causes of the shutdown, and an
adviser at the Planning Commission said approvals for coal mines
and  power plants  would be speeded up. It should consider
allowing private ownership of  coal mines , the privatization of
some of the country’s beleaguered power distribution companies,
and letting utilities set higher energy rates.  Any one of those measures would be a tall political order.
But of all people, Singh should know that in crisis there is
opportunity. When he was appointed finance minister in 1991,
India faced huge deficits and was down to barely $1 billion in
foreign reserves, or enough to pay for a few weeks of imports.
He used that moment of crisis to force reforms that opened
 India’s economy  to foreign investment and competition. As a
result, Indians today complain when growth in GDP slows to 6
percent a year, as it has lately. Back before Singh’s reforms,
they were thrilled if it exceeded 3 percent -- the so-called
Hindu rate of growth.  Singh’s ruling Congress Party did badly in recent regional
elections, and its prospects in the next national elections, in
2014, look poor. It has been pandering to important
constituencies to hold together its coalition, and its
continuing reform efforts, such as they were, have stalled.
Moves to cut losses in state-run enterprises -- for instance, by
increasing rail fares -- have been defeated. Foreign investors
took note when the government suspended its plan to let foreign
retailers such as Wal-Mart invest, in another capitulation to
populist politics.  Confidence in the Indian economic miracle is leaking away.
India needs an emboldened leadership and a new zeal for reform.
In its fractious democracy, that can only happen if its leaders
bring voters along. It can be done, as the reforms of the 1990s
showed, but India’s politicians have lately stopped trying. In
the struggle for short-term advantage, they’ve lost sight of the
prize -- the furious long-term growth the economy has shown it’s
capable of. Led by the prime minister, they need to regain their
vision.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how Congress  failed on
cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on  educational inequality ; Ezra
Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding tax plan ; William Pesek on
higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;  Virginia Postrel  on the
historical lie behind  “you didn’t build that” ; Jonathan Weil on
 stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Richard Cohen on the changing of
the guard in  Olympic fencing ; Mohamed El-Erian on why  central
bankers  can’t save the world; Handel Reynolds on  cancers we
don’t need to know about ; Anthony B. Sanders on why Edward
DeMarco was right to  block mortgage writedowns .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 