-- ING May Sell Canadian Online Bank With $40 Billion in Assets
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 2012-08-02T18:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ing-says-it-s-considering-selling-canada-u-k-online-banks-1-.html
ING Groep NV (INGA)  may sell its Canadian
online bank, which has $40 billion in assets, and dispose of a
smaller U.K. unit as the Dutch company seeks to repay government
aid received during the financial crisis.  The biggest Dutch financial-services firm is “reviewing
strategic options” for the two ING Direct banks, it said in a
statement today. The review is “in the context of our strategic
priorities and long-term financial objectives,” said Carolien van der Giessen, a spokeswoman for Amsterdam-based ING.  The businesses may be sold for about 2.1 billion euros
($2.6 billion), with most of that value in the Canadian bank,
according to Cor Kluis, an analyst at Rabobank International.
ING hired  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to advise on the Canadian unit
and Credit Suisse Group AG for the U.K. business, according to a
person with knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified as the process hasn’t been completed.  ING  Canada  “has established a valuable brand associated
with high-interest  savings accounts ,” Gabriel Dechaine, a
Toronto-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a note.
“There would be several Canadian banks interested,” especially
Bank of  Nova Scotia  and  National Bank of Canada , he wrote.  Aid Repayment  ING, the recipient of 10 billion euros of aid from the
Dutch government in 2008, is already in talks to sell its Asian
life-insurance business and seeking a price of 6 billion euros.  “The sale of ING Direct U.K. is strategically positive, as
we believe this is not the best market,” Rabobank’s Kluis, who
is based in Utrecht,  Netherlands , said by e-mail. Selling the
Asian, British and Canadian operations, along with two years of
retained earnings, should be enough to repay the government and
satisfy European regulators by the end of next year, he said.  The review may not lead to transactions and no decisions
have been made, the company said. In January, ING said it would
review “non-core” banking assets after its target of repaying
aid in 2012 became less certain amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and
stiffer regulatory burdens.  It’s also selling its global insurance operations to meet
European Union conditions for its bailout. ING has so far repaid
7 billion euros of aid as well as 2 billion euros in interest
and premiums.  ING shares  slid  5.1 percent to 5.04 euros in Amsterdam
trading today, giving the company a market value of about 19.3
billion euros.  Financial shares tumbled  in afternoon European
trading after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
comments at a press conference failed to reassure investors
looking for measures to stem the debt crisis.  Canadian Ads  ING started the Internet bank in Canada, its first
branchless venture, in 1997. It built the division to C$40
billion ($40 billion) in assets through a television advertising
campaign where Dutch actor Frederik de Groot urged Canadians to
 “save your money”  in accented English and French and
criticized fees charged by the nation’s established banks.  The business represents an opportunity for the nation’s six
large domestic banks to gain market share. National Bank, the
smallest lender among the big six, and Toronto-based  Scotiabank (BNS) 
would be “natural buyers” given their “relatively weaker
deposit franchises in Canada,” Credit Suisse’s Dechaine wrote.  Joan Beauchamp, a spokeswoman for Montreal-based National
Bank, declined to comment.  “As opportunities for growth become available we evaluate
each on a case-by-case basis and as a matter of course we don’t
comment on market rumor or speculation,” Ann DeRabbie,
spokewsoman for Scotiabank, said in an e-mailed statement.  Outside Growth  The biggest Canadian banks have mostly looked outside the
nation for growth since 1998, when then-Finance Minister  Paul
Martin  blocked proposed mergers between  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  and
 Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and between Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce and  Toronto-Dominion Bank. (TD)   ING Direct’s Canadian assets are more than the difference
in size between the nation’s biggest lender,  Royal Bank of
Canada , and second-place Toronto-Dominion Bank.  ING Direct Canada is now the country’s eighth-largest bank
by assets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from the
 Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions Canada ,
and the second-largest foreign lender in Canada, trailing  HSBC
Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Reported Profit  The unit had 1.8 million customers at the end of March.
ING’s Canadian retail bank last year reported a pretax profit,
excluding divestments and one-time items, of 109 million euros.
It had 21.8 billion euros in residential mortgages at the end of
the first quarter and 22.9 billion euros in deposits.  Kluis said a buyer would have to pay about 2 billion euros
for the Canadian unit, estimating the business has a value of
1.1 billion euros and holds 900 million euros in excess cash.
The U.K. unit is worth about 100 million euros and has no excess
cash, he said.  “ING will likely make a solid book profit of between 200
million euros to 400 million euros” on the Canadian unit, Hans Pluijgers, an Amsterdam-based analyst at Credit Agricole
Cheuvreux, said by e-mail. He said the firm could fetch 1.6
billion euros to 1.8 billion euros from a sale, including excess
cash.  In the U.K., ING has 13.4 billion euros in savings
deposits and 6.3 billion euros in mortgages, with more than 1.5
million customers, the lender said. It reported a so-called
pretax underlying loss of 46 million euros for 2011.  “The U.K. is a competitive, huge market,” Chief Executive
Officer Jan Hommen said in June of last year.  British Market  ING was ordered by the EU to sell its insurance operations,
its U.S. online bank and Dutch mortgage lender WestlandUtrecht
Bank before the end of 2013. Some of those plans were derailed
by the debt crisis and higher  capital requirements .  The firm is in discussions with buyers for its Asian life
insurance operations and may sell the business in parts to
generate higher proceeds. It is seeking 6 billion euros for the
operations, a person with knowledge of the process said earlier
this week, and aims to sign sale agreements by the end of the
month.  ING’s Hommen sold the company’s U.S. online bank to  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)  for about $9 billion in February, and
disposed of the Latin American insurance operations last year.
The firm has also divested a real-estate investment management
business and car-lease unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  