-- LinkedIn Sales Top Estimates on Demand for Recruitment
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-03T20:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/linkedin-sales-top-estimates-on-demand-for-recruitment.html
LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , the biggest
professional-networking website, rose the most in almost six
months after forecasting sales that topped estimates as it adds
users and makes more money from recruitment services.  Third-quarter revenue will be $235 million to $240 million,
 Mountain View , California-based LinkedIn said in a statement
yesterday. Full-year sales will be $915 million to $925 million,
ahead of the $880 million to $900 million it projected in May.
Analysts on average were predicting third-quarter sales of
$236.3 million and 2012 revenue of $906.3 million, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Weiner  has lured subscribers
and increased revenue from hiring services, the largest of the
company’s three main product lines. The first among social media
companies to hold initial share sales since early 2011, LinkedIn
has done a better job than consumer-focused peers  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  at wringing sales from a growing user base. It’s
also more adept at managing expectations, said  Tom Forte , an
analyst at Telsey Advisory Group in  New York .  “Their execution since becoming public has been the best
of the newly minted Internet companies,” said Forte. “This has
been a consistent beat-and-raise story.”  LinkedIn increased 16 percent to $108.51 at the close in
New York, the biggest gain since Feb. 10. The stock has risen 72
percent so far this year.  Falling Profit  Sales in the second quarter also topped predictions,
increasing 89 percent to $228.2 million, compared with the
$216.5 million average analyst estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit declined as Weiner increased spending aimed at
recruiting more business from employers seeking to hire. Net
income fell to $2.81 million, or 3 cents a share, from $4.51
million, or 4 cents, a year earlier. Profit excluding some items
was 16 cents, matching estimates. Costs soared 93 percent to
$214.7 million, with sales and marketing more than doubling to
$75.7 million.  LinkedIn grew its base to 175 million members, up from 161
million in the first quarter, as more people accessed the site
from mobile devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPad, the company said.  Some social media companies, including Facebook, have had a
harder time making money from mobile users than from those who
socialize on larger screens.  ‘Beyond Advertising’  LinkedIn is developing services for smartphones and tablets
that would appeal to paying subscribers, Weiner said on a call
with analysts yesterday. He declined to elaborate.  “It’s important to recognize that when we talk about
mobile monetization, it goes beyond advertising,” he said.  Almost a quarter, or 23 percent, of visits to LinkedIn
happened on mobile apps last quarter, up from 10 percent a year
earlier, Weiner said. More than 15 percent of new member sign-
ups were from mobile, he said.  LinkedIn revamped its home page last month to highlight the
activities of a member’s professional connections, including
articles read and changes to work profiles. The changes have
resulted in record levels of activity, LinkedIn said yesterday.  Facebook and Zynga have both declined after reporting
second-quarter results that disappointed investors. Through
yesterday, Facebook dropped 45 percent since its May IPO, as it
struggles to accelerate sales growth, while Zynga, down 73
percent since its December share sale, saw a drop in demand for
virtual goods.  Facebook advanced 5.2 percent to $21.09 at the close in New
York, while Zynga gained 0.7 percent to $2.72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  