-- Insurers Use Victorian Law to Claim $310 Million in Riot Damages
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-08-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/insurers-use-victorian-law-to-claim-310-million-in-riot-damages.html
U.K. insurers including  RSA Insurance
Group Plc (RSA)  are using a 19th century law to claim back as much as
200 million pounds ($310 million) of losses incurred in last
year’s riots from the taxpayer.  The  Riot Damages Act  of 1886 entitles anyone who has
suffered losses from rioting to recoup the cost from the police.
Insurers have paid out on 95 percent of customer claims linked
to the riots and are seeking reimbursement under the law, said
the  Association of British Insurers , an industry lobby group.  “The police are legally liable under the act for
compensation for riot damage,” said Stuart White, a partner at
 Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP  specializing in property and
liability claims. “Insurers benefit from this as do people who
haven’t got insurance or are underinsured.”  Any payout to insurers from the taxpayer would coincide
with the government’s biggest austerity drive since World War
II.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , RSA and  Allianz SE (ALV) , the three biggest commercial
property insurers in the U.K., say they plan to use the act to
win compensation for claims they’ve met. In all, the industry
has paid 200 million pounds to policyholders, according the ABI.  “If an insurance policy doesn’t specifically exclude riot
cover, then the insurance company should pay -- that’s the end
of it,” said Mike Weatherley, a Conservative lawmaker and
chairman of the all-party parliamentary group on retail and
business crime. “If it does exclude riot cover, then fair
enough, they should get that back from the government.”  Police Claims  Zurich, which insured the  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  store in
Tottenham, north  London  set ablaze in last August’s riots, said
it has settled 89 percent of claims with customers and is
pursuing the police for compensation.  “We’ve submitted all the claims forms for those claims to
the police authorities in the agreed 42-day period and we’re
confident we will recover our costs under the Riot Act,” RSA’s
Chief Executive Officer Simon Lee told reporters on a conference
call yesterday as the insurer reported first-half earnings.  Allianz expects to be reimbursed in full for the riot
damage, spokeswoman Amanda Biles said by e-mail. Aviva is also
seeking money.  “Where we have settled claims, we have submitted all the
documentation to the relevant authorities and we have received
our costs for the majority of these,” the London-based company
said in a statement. “Works and repairs are still in progress
for some of the larger, more complex claims and so these have
yet to be submitted.”  Business Interruption  More than 50 percent of the claims submitted by insurers to
police forces have been declined, Aiden Kerr, head of property
at the ABI said in a statement Aug. 1. Insurers are contesting
those cases, ABI spokeswoman Sarah Bailey said.  They may have been declined because they were for business
interruption costs, according to White. While the Riot Damages
Act specifies that the police should pay compensation for damage
to property, the courts are yet to rule if they should meet the
costs of business interruption, he said.  “There needs to be a definitive court decision,” White
said.  The government will “ensure victims are fully
compensated” through local police forces, according to a
statement from the  Home Office . To date, the government has paid
out 96 million pounds and has settled most claims, it said.  “We are also in the process of reviewing the Riot Damages
Act to ensure it protects the most vulnerable and provides value
for money for the taxpayer,” the Home Office said.  More than 1,500 people were arrested following the worst
civil disorder since the 1980s in London, when rioters broke
into shops, looted goods and set cars and property on fire.  Tottenham Unrest  The unrest began Aug. 6 in Tottenham after a local black
man,  Mark Duggan , was shot and killed by police who had stopped
his car intending to make an arrest. The violence later spread
to other U.K. cities including Manchester, Birmingham, Bristol
and Leeds.  “This hasn’t been the finest moment for the  insurance
industry  dealing with what is a deprived constituency,” said
David Lammy, the Labour lawmaker who represents Tottenham.
Retailers “expected an easy and quick payout and that did not
happen in many, many cases.”  Insurers have since raised their premiums for retailers in
Tottenham by between 20 percent and 25 percent, he said in a
telephone interview.  “The government needs to look at that very carefully in
assessing what their contribution should be” to subsidizing
insurance costs, he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  