-- InterDigital, Burberry, Warner: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-02T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/interdigital-burberry-warner-intellectual-property.html
InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  won an appeals court
ruling reviving its effort to force  Nokia Oyj (NOK)  to pay patent
royalties on the third generation of mobile-phone technology.
InterDigital soared as much as 25 percent on the decision.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
overturned a U.S. International Trade Commission decision
yesterday that cleared Nokia of claims it infringed InterDigital
patents, and sent the case back to the agency for further
review. The decision was posted on the court’s website.  The commission “erred in construing certain critical claim
terms in both patents,” the appeals court said. The patents in
the case, first filed in 2007, cover power control and high-
speed data transmission, InterDigital contends.  InterDigital has said it asked the ITC to block imports of
 Nokia (NOK1V) ’s 3G phones because the Espoo, Finland-based company
refuses to pay patent royalties on networks that allow mobile-
phone users to hold videoconferences, download music and browse
the Internet. Patent royalties accounted for almost all of the
$301.7 million in revenue InterDigital reported last year.  In the ITC case, the trade commission sided with Nokia,
saying the patents weren’t infringed. Nokia, whose sales have
declined amid smartphone competition from companies including
Apple Inc., had also claimed the InterDigital patents were
invalid.  InterDigital filed a second complaint at the ITC against
Nokia, as well as ZTE Corp. and Huawei Technologies Co.,
accusing the Chinese phone-equipment makers of infringing
patents related to 3G wireless technology. A hearing in that
case is scheduled for October in  Washington .  InterDigital, based in  King of Prussia , Pennsylvania, said
in its annual report that it received royalties from more than
half of all 3G mobile devices sold last year, including ones
from  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , Apple, Research In Motion and  HTC
Corp. (2498)   Nokia had a license with InterDigital for second-generation
and some third-generation technology that expired in 2006. Nokia
paid $253 million in a settlement reached in 2006. The companies
were unable to reach a new agreement, InterDigital has said.  The case is InterDigital Communications v. ITC, 2010-1093,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The
ITC case is In the Matter of Certain 3G Mobile Handsets and
components thereof, 337-613, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  The pending ITC case is In the Matter of Wireless Devices
with 3G Capabilities, 337-800, ITC in Washington.  Samsung Lawyer Fails to Undo Apple Trial Evidence Ruling  Samsung Electronics Co. again lost its bid to use evidence
a lawyer for the company described as “critical” to rebutting
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s central allegations in a patent-infringement trial
in  California .  Samsung was barred by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San
Jose from presenting images of a smartphone that it claims to
have been developing in 2006, the year before Apple introduced
the iPhone. Samsung said in a filing that the images show
evidence that it was developing the next generation of mobile
phones with a “simple, rounded rectangular body” before
Apple’s January 2007 announcement of the iPhone.  Samsung said in an e-mailed statement that Koh’s ruling
means “Samsung was not allowed to tell the jury the full story
and show the pre-iPhone design for that and other phones that
were in development at Samsung in 2006, before the iPhone.”  Samsung’s statement included attachments of the evidence
that Koh had excluded, prompting a demand from Koh for an
explanation of who drafted and issued the release.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told Koh the release
was “on perception an intentional attempt to pollute this
jury” rising to “contempt of court.”  Quinn said in a filing yesterday with the court that he
authorized the statement, and that material included in the
excluded exhibits was previously in the public court record.  Quinn said that distribution of the statement and attached
exhibits is consistent with Koh’s rulings that the case should
be “open to public view” -- a view demonstrated by the judge’s
repeated denial of Samsung’s and Apple’s attempt to seal
documents.  Apple’s accusations that the disclosure amounted to
contempt of court “unfairly called my personal reputation into
question and have resulted in media reports likewise falsely
impugning me personally,” Quinn said in the filing.  In another ruling yesterday, Koh said Samsung can use some
evidence from a former Apple designer to defend against the
infringement allegations.  Apple, based in Cupertino, California, seeks $2.5 billion
for its claims that Samsung infringed patents covering designs
and technology for mobile devices.  Samsung countersued and will present claims that Apple is
infringing two patents covering mobile-technology standards and
three utility patents. Samsung is demanding royalties of as much
as 2.4 percent for each device sold, according to a court
filing.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Burberry Drops Lawsuit Against Humphrey Bogart Heirs  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods
company, dropped a U.S. lawsuit against  Humphrey Bogart ’s heirs
over the use of an image of the late actor in advertising.  Burberry in May asked the federal court in Manhattan to
declare its use of Bogart’s name and image didn’t infringe
Bogart LLC’s trademark and publicity rights. The London-based
company uses an image from the film “Casablanca” of the late
actor wearing a Burberry trench coat.  Bogart LLC, mostly owned by Bogart’s children, responded by
filing a trademark-infringement complaint in state court in
California. That suit hasn’t been dropped, according to the
court’s docket.  Burberry said in its complaint that it used Bogart’s image,
licensed from photo provider Corbis, to show the historical
influence of the brand, not to sell merchandise. The case was
dismissed with prejudice, meaning Burberry can’t refile the
claims against the Bogart estate.  Evan Glassman, a lawyer for Burberry, and Paul Stevens, a
lawyer for Bogart LLC, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mails
seeking comment on the dismissal.  The federal case is Burberry Ltd. v. Bogart LLC, 12-3491,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The state case is Bogart LLC v. Burberry Group, BC483967,
Superior Court of California, County of  Los Angeles .  Church Officials in Custody in Trademark Dispute With Adventists  A trademark dispute involving rival religious denominations
has resulted in an arrest warrant being issued for two church
officials, both of whom are now in custody,  according to  the
Redlands-Loma Linda Patch newspaper.  The General Conference of the Seventh-Day Adventists filed
suit in a  Tennessee  federal court in 2006 in an effort to halt a
Walter Mc. Gill of Guys, Tennessee from using its trademarks
without authorization.  Gill, the pastor of a church known as the Creation Seventh
Day Adventist Church, and was accused of using trademarks in
connection with religious observances, goods and services to
which he wasn’t entitled, the conference said in its pleadings.  He was also accused of using the conference’s trademarks in
his Internet domain names, which confused the public, according
to court papers. The conference said it could not control the
quality or content of what McGill was offering under its
trademarks, and that this was harmful and unlawful.  The conference had sought a court order barring further
infringement of its marks, a recall of all infringing
promotional material, the transfer of the objectionable domain
names and awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation
costs.  McGill told the court he would not participate in
settlement discussions because his religious beliefs made it
impossible for him to compromise his position on the use of the
name. The court ordered him to appear or face sanctions, and
issued a similar order to a second church official, Lucan
Chartier. When both failed to comply, the court found them in
contempt and issued arrest warrants May 3.  In June, the court awarded attorney fees and litigation
costs of $72,000 to the conference for the filing of two
separate motions in the case, according to Bloomberg data  The Patch newspaper reported that McGill was arrested June
13, and that Chartier surrendered to authorities July 31 in
Redlands, California, and that both intend to fast during their
incarceration.  Lawyers identified on the court docket as representing the
pair are no longer in the case.  The case is General Conference Corporation of Seventh-Day
Adventists v. McGill, 1:06-cv-01207-JDB-EGB, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Tennessee (Jackson).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Warner Brothers Sues Amazon Resellers Over Counterfeits Sales  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers unit filed more than a
dozen copyright-infringement suits in federal court in Los
Angeles against Amazon.com resellers.  The complaints, all filed on July 30, are each against one
named seller and other unnamed defendants. The defendants are
among the 2 million Amazon.com resellers, who use the Seattle-
based retail giant’s system to sell new, used and collectible
items, according to court papers.  Warner Brothers said these sellers are selling infringing
copies of its products. Among those listed in the various
complaints are the Harry Potter films, and “Treme,” “One Tree
Hill” and “The Wire” television programs.  Amazon.com itself isn’t a defendant.  The studio asked the court for orders for the seizure of
the allegedly infringing products, and for awards of money
damages, attorney fees and litigation costs. Additionally, it
seeks an order barring further infringement of its products.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Raytheon Claims Flir Stole Trade Secrets Revived on Appeal  U.S. defense contractor  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  won an appeals court
ruling that revives claims  Flir Systems Inc. (FLIR) ’s Indigo Systems
unit lured away former workers to steal  trade secrets  related to
infrared cameras.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said
yesterday that a lower court erred in dismissing the case, and
sent it back for further review. It said the trial judge erred
in saying that Raytheon should have known of any supposed theft
before 2004, so it was too late to file the lawsuit in 2007.  “It was for the jury and not for the district court to
determine when Raytheon should have first discovered the facts
supporting its cause of action,” the three-judge panel wrote.  Indigo, now known as Flir Commercial Systems, was founded
in 1996 by former Raytheon employees and had a consulting
contract with the Waltham, Massachusetts-based defense
contractor through 2000.  That year, Indigo was chosen over Raytheon for a contract
to provide infrared cameras to the U.S. military, the court
said. In 2003, it beat out Raytheon again, this time for a
subcontract from  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  to provide the cameras
for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.  Raytheon said it received assurances from Indigo that its
employees, including ones hired from Raytheon, weren’t using
Raytheon technology.  In 2004, Raytheon obtained an Indigo camera, disassembled
it and “found what it believed was evidence of patent
infringement and trade secret misappropriation,” according to
the ruling. The suit was filed in 2007, within the three-year
statute of limitations based on that discovery and the patent
claims have since settled.  Raytheon had suspicions in 2000 because of the number of
employees it lost to Indigo and the contract losses, the lower
court ruled. It should have acted then, the judge said.  The judge should have considered that Raytheon relied on
pledges from Indigo that Raytheon  intellectual property  wasn’t
being used, the Federal Circuit said. The court panel said the
purchase of the Indigo camera was a normal competitive gambit,
not out of any particular suspicion.  “The district court essentially concluded that from 2000
on, Raytheon was on permanent inquiry notice and therefore had a
constant duty to investigate all acts of competition by Indigo
for evidence of misappropriation,” the panel wrote.  Flir, a Wilsonville, Oregon-based maker of night-vision
cameras, bought Indigo in 2004.  The case is Raytheon Co. v. Indigo Systems Corp., 2011-1245
and 2011-1246, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Raytheon Co. v. Indigo
Systems Corp., 07cv109, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Sherman).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 