-- Intense Drought Spreads; Dryness to Last Through October
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-02T16:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/intense-drought-spreads-midwest-to-dry-through-october.html
The most extreme forms of drought
spread last week in the lower 48 states, and moderate or worse
conditions are expected to persist in the Midwest through
October, according to U.S. monitors.  Extreme and exceptional drought, the two worst categories
on a four-step scale, increased to 22.3 percent of the region in
the week ended July 31, up from 20.6 percent, and expanded to
18.6 percent of the U.S. as a whole, up from 17.2 percent in the
previous period, said the  Drought Monitor  in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  The Midwest “continues to be impacted not only by
oppressive heat, but also depleted soil moisture, desiccated
pastures and widespread crop damages, livestock culling and
elevated risk of fire,” Mark Svoboda of the  National Drought
Mitigation Center  wrote in an assessment. “Recent concerns have
now turned to soybeans and water supply as the drought’s
duration persists.”  Drought, which hit hardest during a critical time for
developing corn and soy plants, has pushed up prices for the
crops as potential yields and quality have fallen. At least 48
percent of U.S. corn and 37 percent of soybeans were rated as
poor or very poor as of July 29, according to the U.S.
Agriculture Department.  The U.S. is the world’s largest corn grower and exporter.
China said today it may reduce corn imports because of high
prices.  July Rainfall  In July, 0.79 of an inch of rain fell in Burlington, Iowa,
3.46 inches fewer than normal. In  St. Louis , 0.72 of an inch
fell, 3.39 inches below normal, according to the  National
Weather Service . Parts of the Southeast and the Dakotas saw
rainfall improvement last week.  Across the U.S., 4,414 daily high temperature records were
tied or set in July, the National Climatic Data Center in
Asheville,  North Carolina , reported.  Parched conditions are expected to spread through most of
North Dakota and central Texas through October while persisting
across the Midwest, according to the U.S. Seasonal Drought
Outlook released today by the  Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp
Springs ,  Maryland .  There may be some improvement in southern Texas as well as
in the eastern parts of Ohio and Michigan. The climate center
forecasts improving conditions in the U.S. Southwest and in
parts of Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, New York, Virginia,
Maryland, Delaware and Massachusetts.  Drought is also expected to spread across most of  Hawaii .
About half of the Big Island is already affected, along with
about one-third of Oahu.  Some Easing  Some level of drought now covers 52.7 percent of the U.S.,
down from 53.4 percent last week, according to the Drought
Monitor, a partnership between the Drought Mitigation Center at
the University of Nebraska at Lincoln, the Agriculture
Department and  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration .  In the contiguous 48 states, moderate or worse conditions
now affect 62.9 percent of the land, down from 63.9 percent last
week, which was the highest level since the monitor was created
in 2000.  It was also the most since 1956, in comparable terms, based
on the Palmer Drought Index, according to a report written by
David Miskus, senior meteorologist at the climate center.  In the short term, there is a 40 percent chance much of
central U.S. won’t receive the normal amount of rain through the
next month, according to the center.  The center’s maps show a large part of Nebraska,  Iowa ,
 Missouri ,  Kansas  and  Oklahoma  may miss out on rain. Most
neighboring states, including  Illinois ,  Indiana ,  Arkansas  and
northern Texas, may get less rain than usual.  Drought is measured  in four levels of severity  from
moderate to exceptional. In addition, forecasters note a fifth
category, “abnormally dry,” which is often seen as precursor
to drought.  Drought and abnormally dry conditions cover 71.2 percent of
the U.S., down from 71.8 the previous week, according to the
monitor. In the contiguous 48 states, 79.4 percent of the land
is covered by the five levels, down from 80.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  