-- Investors Get 17 Cents on Dollar Only in Chicago: Munis
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-08-02T06:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/investors-get-17-cents-on-dollar-only-in-chicago-munis.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Nuveen Investments
Inc. and  Federated Investors Inc. (FII)  learned how bondholders can
get swept into a bankruptcy when a Chicago high-rise retirement
community became 2011’s second-largest municipal default.  After the 53-story  Clare at Water Tower , with views of  Lake
Michigan  from the city’s  Gold Coast  neighborhood, entered
bankruptcy last year, the court doled out about 17 cents on the
dollar, on average, for $233 million of debt, records show.  “Bondholders took a real beating,” said Richard Larkin,
senior vice president and director of credit analysis with
Herbert J. Sims & Co., in Iselin,  New Jersey . In the $3.7
trillion muni market in 2011, the default trailed only those
triggered by AMR Corp.’s bankruptcy, said John Hallacy, muni-
research head at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York.  Fundamental Advisors LP, a private-equity firm, led a
partnership that bought the tower at auction for $53.5 million.
Now retiree apartments there are offered for $595,000 that were
listed at $1 million. The restructuring underscores the risk
taken by buyers of debt backing speculative health-care,
special-assessment and industrial projects that comprise 75
percent of municipal defaults, according to Hallacy.  ‘Debt-Free’  By cutting  The Clare ’s debt burden, Fundamental and its
partners can improve food service, health care, the building’s
appearance and management, said Laurence Gottlieb, co-founder
and chief executive officer of the  New York  company. The changes
“make The Clare extremely competitive,” he said.  “Our plan is to achieve its full potential as a high-end
retirement community,” Gottlieb said. “The Clare is now debt-
free, which gives us tremendous flexibility with our contracts
and the ability to offer peace of mind to our residents.”  Lenders who backed The Clare’s development as a nonprofit
continuing-care community won’t benefit. About $39 million is
available for bondholders from the proceeds of the transaction,
according to a  July 27 disclosure  notice from the Bank of New
York Mellon, trustee for the securities.  U.S. tax law allows nonprofit organizations to sell
municipal bonds for public-purpose facilities such as The Clare.
The  Illinois  Finance Authority sold about $233 million of tax-
exempt debt for the building’s developers in 2005 and 2010.  Some of the bonds traded between 18 cents and 19 cents on
the dollar in April and May, trade disclosure reports show.  17 Cents  Different classes of bondholders will get varying amounts
based on their status in the bankruptcy. Some will receive 100
percent of principal; others must settle for less than 17 cents
on the dollar.  For almost a year before The Clare sought protection under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. bankruptcy code, BBB rated continuing-
care retirement communities yielded more than a fifth of a
percentage point higher than similarly rated hospital bonds,
according to research released in January by Susannah Page, a
 Bank of America  strategist. About 1,900 issues have been sold
for continuing-care communities, worth about $37.7 billion,
according to Page.  Yet this year, that category has accounted for $138 million
of $549 million in payment defaults, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
research shows. The Clare accounts for 31 percent of outstanding
muni defaults by retirement homes, according to Municipal Market
Advisors data.  Collapsing Values  BlackRock, Nuveen and Federated are cited as bondholders in
bankruptcy documents that don’t specify the extent of losses
they may face, if any.  Lauren Post, a spokeswoman for New York-based BlackRock,
declined to comment. Nuveen didn’t buy any bonds for The Clare,
obtaining them when it acquired FAF Advisors Inc., said Kathleen Cardoza, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Nuveen. Ed Costello, a
spokesman for Pittsburgh-based Federated, declined to comment.  The collapse in property values and other markets during
the financial crisis, which helped keep The Clare’s revenue and
occupancy below projections, still plagues continuing-care
communities, said Karl Propst, a Dallas-based Standard & Poor’s
analyst. Facilities such as The Clare depend on residential
sales by newcomers to cover entrance fees. They also rely on
investing those payments to cover part of the cost of care.  “There is a real correlation with the real-estate market
because people have to sell their houses to move in,” said Alan Schankel, head of fixed-income research at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, an investment bank in Philadelphia. He follows some
retirement centers located in his home state.  Magnificent Mile  Built near  Chicago ’s Magnificent Mile, The Clare billed
itself as the city’s first high-rise elder-care community. The
development, with 248 apartments for independent retirees on
Loyola University’s Water Tower campus, cost more than $250
million, according to Chicago Senior Care LLC, the new owner.  The 750,000 square-foot building also has 39 assisted-
living apartments, 15 “memory support” suites and 32 nursing
beds. It houses dining areas, chapels and fitness and aquatic
centers.  The Clare’s opening in 2008 was slowed by construction
delays and initial occupancy failed to meet forecasts. The
property was developed by the Franciscan Sisters of Chicago
Service Corp., based in Homewood, Illinois. It skipped a
September debt-service payment last year and the project entered
bankruptcy in November.  “It was the wrong plan at the wrong time.” said Larkin at
Sims. He also said the occupancy rate relied on a buoyant
housing market to let retirees raise the capital needed to join.  Debt Burden  At Fundamental, managers began watching The Clare about
when it opened, said  Jonathan Stern , a director with the firm
who handled the day-to-day aspects of the deal. They knew that
with its debt burden, The Clare couldn’t cut entrance fees to
compete for residents, he said.  When Fundamental took over, occupancy stood at about 30
percent. It plans to cut entrance fees, reducing an apartment-
with-care contract that is 90 percent refundable on moving out
to as low as $500,000 from $750,000. The company plans to invest
about $1 million in improvements, including making public areas
more attractive.  Fundamental, which focuses on projects that are struggling
in the municipal market, has investments of $10 million to $50
million each in 30 projects in about 25 states, including
Atlanta’s WestMar Student Lofts, the AutoZone Park in  Memphis ,
 Tennessee , and The Curtis hotel in downtown Denver.  The company, which Gottlieb started with Dana Fusaris,
formerly with Madison Capital Management, controls about $750
million in assets. Fundamental’s investors include pensions,
endowments and high-net worth individuals. In June, Hector
Negroni, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. managing director who
oversaw munis, joined as co-chief executive officer and chief
investment officer of Fundamental Credit Opportunities.  Governments facing pressure from employee health-care and
pension costs, as well as funding critical services with slow-
growing revenue, will create “opportunities to invest in the
rehabilitation of core assets and service core assets providing
essential services,” Gottlieb said.  Following are pending sales:  CHICAGO plans to issue about $1.2 billion of revenue bonds
for O’Hare International Airport to refinance debt, according to
bond documents. About $729 million of the offer will consist of
general airport senior-lien revenue debt, set to price as soon
as Aug. 8, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Moody’s Investors
Service last month downgraded O’Hare general-revenue bonds one
level to A2, its sixth-highest grade. In another segment of the
deal, the city will issue $443.3 million of passenger-facility
charge revenue bonds. Moody’s rates that sale A2. (Added Aug. 2)  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to offer
$1.55 billion of subordinate debt starting as soon as Aug. 6,
according to the city’s Office of Management and Budget. The
sale, backed by tax receipts, includes $850 million of tax-
exempt bonds that will go toward financing capital projects and
refunding. The agency also plans to sell $350 million of taxable
bonds, as well as $350 million of tax-exempt, variable-rate
bonds set to price Aug. 28. S&P rates the authority’s
subordinate credit AAA. (Added Aug. 1)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  