-- IRS May Lose $21 Billion in Identity Fraud, Study Says
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-02T17:19:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/irs-may-lose-21-billion-in-identity-fraud-study-says.html
Identity thieves are poised to claim
$21 billion in fraudulent tax refunds over the next five years,
according to a report by the inspector general who oversees the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  The report released today documents the growth in  tax fraud 
through identity theft and includes previously unreleased
details of potentially fraudulent returns.  For example, the IRS sent more than $3.3 million in refunds
to an address in Lansing,  Michigan , that was listed on 2,137
separate tax returns. In at least 10 cases, the IRS sent more
than 300 direct deposits of refunds totaling more than $470,000
to the same bank account.  “At a time when every dollar counts, these results are
extremely troubling,” said J. Russell George, the treasury
inspector general for tax administration, in a statement.
“Undetected tax refund fraud results in significant unintended
federal outlays and has the potential to erode taxpayer
confidence in our nation’s system of tax administration.”  The IRS has been seeking to combat  identity theft  for
several years as it tries to keep up with evolving schemes while
avoiding delays in legitimate refunds.  The IRS disputed the $21 billion estimate. In a statement,
it said the amount is “significantly overstated” because of
changes made in detecting identity theft. The report mostly
covers the 2011 tax filing season and relies on data that wasn’t
necessarily available to the IRS at the time, wrote Peggy
Bogadi, commissioner of the IRS wage and investment division.  ‘Significant Resources’  “We are devoting significant resources to combat tax
refund fraud using stolen identities and have already taken
action with respect to issues identified in the report,” she
wrote.  In a statement released today, the agency said it has
changed its screening filters to address the issues raised in
the report.  “To date for this year, almost $12 billion in confirmed
refund fraud has been stopped, and at least half of this is
confirmed identity theft,” according to the statement. “The
amount stopped will continue to grow, and the IRS is on pace to
significantly exceed the amount of confirmed refund fraud
prevented compared with prior years.”  Agency Priority  The inspector general’s report said the IRS has taken
several steps to address tax-related identity theft fraud. The
issue has become an agency priority, the report said, and the
IRS has improved in identifying fraud patterns.  The identity theft fraud has been concentrated in  Florida ,
said the report, which found more than $468 million in potential
fraud in Tampa and $280 million in Miami.  The report recommended that the IRS should use existing
federal databases to flag potential fraud. It said Congress
would have to grant the agency authority for this.  The report said the IRS should limit the number of tax
refunds that can be sent to a single bank account and deposit
refunds only to bank accounts and debit cards in the taxpayer’s
name.  “Online tax cheats are swindling billions from law-abiding
Americans,” said Senator  Bill Nelson , a Florida Democrat who
requested the report, in a statement. “It’s an ongoing problem,
and we’ve got to find a fix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  