-- Israel Finds $240 Billion Gas Hoard Stranded by Politics: Energy
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-08-03T14:22:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/israel-finds-240-billion-gas-hoard-stranded-by-politics-energy.html
Israel , reliant on imported energy
since the state’s foundation in 1948, now has more natural gas
than it can handle.  Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) ,  Delek Group Ltd. (DLEKG)  and other explorers
have discovered enough gas under the Mediterranean Sea to supply
Israel’s needs for 150 years. To profit from the finds sooner,
the companies want to export the gas by pipeline or ship. As the
Ministry of Energy prepares to publish a blueprint for
developing the fields later this month, officials say the
country’s economy and security must come first and shipments
abroad should be limited.  Exporting natural gas presents challenges. A shortage of
land and environmental opposition complicates building a plant
to liquefy the fuel for export, while an offshore facility or
pipelines to nearby countries will be hard to protect. Tapping
all of Israel’s discoveries, which include Leviathan, a single
field holding more gas than  Middle East  exporter Yemen has in
reserves, may prove uneconomic without exports.  “I’d be surprised if some of the gas in Israel isn’t
stranded,” said Nick Maden, a senior vice president for
international exploration at  Statoil ASA (STL) , which has been
examining the region’s potential. This is “the play that most
companies will be trying to follow” and there has “been more
gas discovered than you can commercialize.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  met energy executives
last month and said he would take steps to strengthen the
potential of gas exports.  ‘Many Reforms’  “We need to make many reforms and maintain a responsible
framework for the state” in the energy market, Netanyahu said
in a statement after the meeting.  The debate in Israel is similar to that in the U.S., where
gas-hungry companies including Dow Chemical Co. and DuPont Co.
have lobbied lawmakers to prevent exports on a scale that risks
driving up natural-gas prices.  Noble discovered the Leviathan gas field in Israel’s deep
waters in 2010 and at the time it was the world’s largest find
of its kind in a decade. The Houston-based explorer is looking
for a partner to develop an LNG project, which may cost as much
as $5 billion. It also plans a deeper well next year to search
for Israel’s first offshore crude finds, Chief Executive Officer
Charles Davidson said on a July 26 conference call with
investors.  “We’ve found far more natural gas that can ever be used in
Israel,” Davidson said at a conference in May. “There are more
natural gas resources to discover in Israel and they have to be
able to demonstrate there is a market there in order to justify
other producers to come in and explore.”  The company declined to comment for this story.  Economic Output  Noble, partner Delek, and other explorers have discovered
about 760 billion cubic meters (28 trillion cubic feet) of gas,
according to Noble data. That’s enough to meet the country’s
demand for more than 150 years at current consumption rates,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on BP Plc data. The
gas would be worth about $240 billion, equal to Israel’s annual
economic output, based on today’s prices in the U.K.  The Israeli government has set up a research committee
chaired by  Shaul Zemach , director-general at the Ministry of
Energy and Water Resources, to develop a blueprint for gas
industry development due to be published this month. Today,
Israel imports gas by LNG tanker.  “One of our targets” is to encourage “companies to come
to Israel to invest money” in exploration and “do exporting in
a good way,” said  Yeoshua Stern , director-general of the
natural gas authority at  Israel’s Energy Ministry and one of
the team behind the report. “I hope there is enough gas for the
domestic market and for export.”  Securing Resources  In April, the committee presented an interim report
marrying the aims of encourage exploration in Israel, securing
resources for domestic use through 2040 and allowing some
exports. The  energy industry  said it creates uncertainty because
gas exports will only be allowed at the government’s discretion.  “Foreign investors won’t come here because of the
regulatory uncertainty,” said Yossi Abu, the CEO of Delek
Drilling LP, speaking in July at a Tel Aviv investors’
conference. “It’s not the government versus the developers, but
the government and the developers versus our competitors in the
rest of the world.”  While Noble and Delek have held preliminary talks with
South Korea’s Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co. and
 Russia ’s OAO Gazprom about building a floating LNG unit, there
is concern that such a facility could be vulnerable to an
attack.  Security Threat  “The security threat to the gas fields is serious,” said
Giora Eiland, a retired general and research fellow at the
Institute for National Security Studies at Tel Aviv University.
“Protecting all the activities of an LNG infrastructure will be
an extremely expensive undertaking, and if a floating LNG
platform worth billions of dollars is set up, it will likely be
the most vulnerable target.”  The world’s largest energy companies like  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) , Chevron Corp., and Exxon Mobil Corp. will be deterred from
investing in Israel because of interests they have in the rest
of the Middle East, said  Fadel Gheit , an analyst at Oppenheimer
& Co.  “This is a geopolitical reality and has nothing to do with
economics,” Gheit said from  New York . “Most likely they will
have to export the gas because it exceeds the domestic
consumption. They have a tremendous gas surplus.”  Territorial Disputes  East Mediterranean exploration will be complicated by
territorial disputes. Lebanon and Israel have no defined
maritime border, close to where some of Israel’s discoveries
lie. Israel has blocked development of a gas field off the  Gaza
Strip  on concern that militants will get revenue from the fuel.  Gazprom (GAZP) , which supplies about a quarter of gas consumed in
 Europe , in March signed a preliminary deal to buy gas from
Levant LNG Marketing Corp., set up to sell the fuel from the
Tamar and Dalit fields using a floating LNG plant.  Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Co., which runs its LNG plants
below capacity, would be also interested in buying pipeline gas
from Israel, said Mostafa El Bahr, vice chairman for agreements
and exploration at the company. In April,  Egypt  terminated a
gas-supply contract with Israel signed in 2005, after the Sinai
pipeline supplying the fuel was bombed more than a dozen times.  Red Sea  Export proposals also include building a pipeline all the
way to  Greece  or combining the gas from discoveries off Cyprus
and Israel at a joint LNG plant as soon as 2018. Another option
is to build a plant in Jordan to ship the fuel to  Asia  through
the Red Sea, according to Noble.  The pipeline to Greece is so expensive it won’t be
economically viable, while the link to  Turkey  will lack
flexibility of buyers, according to Gerry Peereboom, a director
of LNG at Noble. Leviathan partners can start pumping first gas
as soon as 2016 to supply the Israeli domestic market, Noble
Chief Operating Officer David Stover said July 26.  “There is almost certainly enough gas for export” in
Israel, said  Simon Henderson , the director of  energy policy  at
Washington Institute. “They’ve got to make some decisions and
make them fairly soon.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  