-- Japan’s Free-Trade Nemesis Built on Part-Time Farmers Empire
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-08-03T06:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/japan-s-free-trade-nemesis-built-on-part-time-farmers-empire.html
Japan’s government wants it.
 Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  backs it.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  says they need it
to compete. Yet, whether Japan joins the biggest attempt at a
global free-trade pact may hinge on part-time rice farmers like
Tadashi Hirose. And he doesn’t much like it.  Hirose, 59, loses money on his 14 hectares (35 acres) of
rice and azuki beans in southwest Hokkaido, forcing him to
supplement his income with a job at a construction company.
Still, he says Japan joining the so-called Trans-Pacific
Partnership trade pact would destroy a livelihood his family’s
known for more than a century and drive the whole of Hokkaido,
the top rice producing region, into the red.  “Even if our market is shrinking, why give it away to
other countries,” Hirose said.  The reason why part-time farmers like Hirose could block
Japan’s entry to what U.S. President  Barack Obama  called a
“21st century” trade deal is an agricultural cooperative
called JA Group. JA dominates Japan’s corn and rice trade, runs
a bank with $532 billion in customer deposits or up with
 Barclays Plc. (BARC) ’s $568 billion. Its 10 million members, about 8
percent of Japan’s population, translates into political clout.  JA organized protests on  Tokyo  streets that pressured Prime
Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  to stay away from TPP talks in July.
Seven countries, including  Australia  and the U.S., seek to join
the four original signatories in a pact to bind economies with
$20.5 trillion in output, or 30 percent of the global total.  Want In  The  TPP  started in 2005 with Brunei, Chile, Singapore and
 New Zealand  as a pact to open trade of goods, services and
government procurement among members, building on the principles
of the  World Trade Organization . Among its goals are abolishing
export duties and subsidies for agricultural goods.  “Because of the rural bias in Japan’s electoral system the
farming lobby is very powerful, even though as a percentage of
the economy, it accounts for 1 percent,” said Risaburo Nezu, a
former trade negotiator for Japan’s government and now a senior
fellow at the Fujitsu Research Institute. “But any Japanese
prime minister today will be thinking: ‘I want in.’”  In a round of TPP talks in July, “significant progress”
was made in areas including customs, cross-border services and
state procurement, said  Carol Guthrie , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  Like many countries negotiating the TPP, the U.S. also
faces some domestic opposition, including from Washington, D.C.-
based  Public Citizen  advocacy group that says the accord will
mean job cuts, not  job creation . In contrast, companies from
Pfizer Inc. to  General Electric Co. (GE)  want the U.S. to join.  World Apart  In no country is the issue likely to be as divisive as in
Japan. Located just two cars lanes apart in downtown Tokyo, the
headquarters of JA Group and  Keidanren  -- the country’s biggest
business lobby that includes Toyota -- are a world apart when it
comes to TPP.  While Keidanren argues on behalf of export-focused makers
that Japan needs accords like the TPP for its cars, televisions
and games consoles to compete with emerging Asian rivals and to
relieve the pressure of a strong yen, JA Group says the accord
will kill domestic agriculture.  “Joining TPP is very important to maintain our
competitiveness,” Satoshi Ozawa, chief financial officer at
Toyota told reporters in Tokyo. “I strongly believe that the
export companies and the  agriculture sector  can grow together
under a new structure.”  Not according to the post-TPP models of Japan calculated by
JA’s Norinchukin Research Institute.  Cheap Meat  Once Australia, the U.S, and New Zealand gain better access
to Japan’s 127 million consumers, more than 25 percent of local
rice output will cease, according to Norinchukin Research. If
Japan’s $48 billion worth of agricultural products protected by
high  import duties  were open to all foreign farmers, 99 percent
of wheat, almost all sugar, and most beef production would not
be competitive, Tetsuro Shimizu, the institute’s joint general
manager said.  Farmer Hirose adds that it costs about 70 yen a kilogram to
produce milk in his hometown of Biratori, 780 kilometers north
of Tokyo, while New Zealand does it for 20 yen, he said in an
interview at his home with neighboring farmers.  “When I go with my wife to the supermarket I see that
foreign meat sells very well,” chimed in Hirose’s neighbor
Yuichi Marubashi, a 51-year-old breeder of wagyu cattle. “The
problem is, everyone wants to buy cheap,” he said in between
sips of canned coffee.  No Generation  Sitting next to him in blue overalls, rice and tomato
farmer Shinichiro Itoya said he too buys Australian beef,
winning a friendly jab in the ribs from Marubashi and sparking
laughter from the other three farmers.  Joking aside, Itoya said he’s worried that lower cost
imports could kill off his farm. He added that’s also a waste of
good land as he spent two years farming in Idaho and pastures in
Japan are as good or better than the U.S., which needs
irrigation.  Of Biratori town’s 200 farmers Hirose expects 120 will
remain in business within a decade as the generation to replace
those retiring isn’t there. With local schools shutting and the
government pushing for TPP, Hirose sees the writing on the wall.  “I don’t want to stop rice production,” Hirose said. “I
don’t want to sell my paddies, but I cannot see any hope in the
future. I don’t want my son to take over the farm.”  Remove import tariffs on meat, sugar, dairy and wheat --
markets worth about 1.76 trillion yen ($22 billion) -- and
Japan’s producers would lose out to companies including  Tyson
Foods Inc. (TSN)  of the U.S. and Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. of
New Zealand, according to Norinchukin Institute. Japan already
imports about half its pork and beef, two thirds of its sugar
and almost 90 percent of its wheat.  Why Now?  Losing what’s left of those markets to imports is a price
too high for Japan whatever benefits TPP brings to its flagship
industrial brands, said JA senior executive director Shigeo
Fuji.  “The way Toyota became a model company was via ‘kaizen,’”
Fuji said, referring to the mantra of constant improvement
popularized by Asia’s biggest automaker. “They used leadership
and engineering. It had nothing to do with accords like TPP. Why
do they need it now?”  What’s more, according to Fuji agriculture cannot be viewed
only in economic terms. Japan’s narrow islands are no match for
the breadth of Australian and U.S. plains, and hence its food
trade requires a ring fence.  Not all Japanese farmers agree. Hokkaido wheat and soybean
grower Yoshimasa Miyai says Fuji’s view is propaganda.  Plain Stupid  Miyai says he reads Japan’s top business newspaper, the
Nikkei, from cover to cover every day and monitors dollar and
euro exchange rates to pick the most opportune time for
importing tractors from  Deere & Co. (DE)  and equipment from Germany’s
Amazonen-Werke H Dreyer Gmbh.  As he gives a tour of his 110 hectare farm in western
Hokkaido, Miyai rattles off the cost of every grain silo, power
generator, sprinkler and spare bolt in his domain.  Unlike 90 percent of Japan’s farmers who make 1 million yen
($12,800) in annual sales, Miyai boasts a revenue that is 100
times larger and profit of 15 million yen. He stopped growing
rice in 1970 in line with state policy to prevent oversupply of
the nation’s main staple food. By following state directives,
Miyai gets incentives that make up 70 percent of his revenue.  “Rice is what I eat, not what I grow. It’s plain stupid to
work hard and still make a loss, like 99 percent of the
farmers,” Miyai said. “Farming’s not about money? Don’t
believe it.”  Plus-Minus  In a red and creme check shirt, Miyai, 54, sits in his
cabin office decorated with posters of women posing next to
tractors and the annual calendar of the  LaLaToo troupe , a
Sapporo transvestite club. A fan of Las Vegas casinos and flying
planes, Miyai’s view on TPP is grounded in one simple principle:
farming always depends on state incentives.  “If Japan joins TPP this country will become more
affluent, then farmers will get more benefits,” Miyai said.
“There’ll be an impact, sure, but if you judge purely on a
plus-minus basis, it’s definitely a plus” for the nation.  Even a farmer with Miyai’s views is a JA member since it
distributes state payments and offers more than just the
purchase of produce.  Japan’s first agricultural cooperative started in the 1830s
during the late Edo period. During World War II, Japan had more
people working in farming than any other industry, according to
the U.S. Library of Congress. The current structure of Japan’s
agricultural industry and its lobbying influence is owed in part
to the U.S.  Family Farm  At the end of the war, U.S. occupation authorities broke up
large landholdings and forced owners to sell parcels of pasture
to farm workers at low prices, Miyai said. This led to smaller
farms and more farmers under the wing of JA’s cooperative
structure that became independent from the state in 1948 as part
of post war economic reforms.  Japan’s current agricultural minister, Akira Gunji, was a
former regional secretary-general of JA’s labor union before he
entered politics in 1998.  JA set up a support network for small farmers as many of
their workers and family members left rural areas to seek
factory jobs. Those who remained to till the land were the elder
generation, coining the term “sanchan nogyou” to describe the
nation’s agriculture as being based on the labor of “oji-chan,
oba-chan, and oka-chan” -- the grandpa, the grandma and mum.  Subprime Bank  Once retired, many of the workers from the cities would
return to the family plot to continue cultivating the
inheritance as a way to supplement pensions and to maintain the
family tradition.  As a result, of Japan’s 2.53 million farmers about 400,000
work full time. For the rest, farming provides about 1 million
yen a year, or less than 15 percent of their income, according
to Tokyo University professor Masayoshi Honma. Japan’s farm size
averages 1 to 2 hectares, among the smallest in the world.  The average farm size is not a reflection of JA’s business.
The group, which outpaces Japan’s century-old trading houses
 Marubeni Corp. (8002)  and Mitsubishi when it comes to corn imports and
rice sales, also owns two banks, retails fuel, insurance, and
dabbles in tourism.  JA’s Norinchukin Bank has sold as much debt as the
country’s No.2 lender  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group. (8316)  During
the global crisis sparked by the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc., Norinchukin Bank was revealed as Asia’s biggest
loser from buying U.S. securitized products with about $8.3
billion in realized and unrealized losses.  JA Control  JA’s set-up means the group is more interested in
maintaining the size of its membership than the broader
interests of agriculture in Japan, said Tokyo University’s
Honma. JA has 9.55 million regular and associate members, who
are mostly part-time farmers with an average age of 67.  The whole JA empire, including its banking, depends on the
deposits of its members and the non-agriculture services to turn
a profit, Honma said.  JA charges farmers 20 percent more for fertilizer than
regular retailers, said Teruhiko Sasaki, 47-year-old farmer in
Iwamizawa town in Hokkaido. As a JA member and borrower, Sasaki
said he cannot stop buying JA’s fertilizer even though the
expense accounted for 9 percent of his sales.  Meanwhile the price JA pays rice farmers has dropped. In
Biratori town, JA paid Hirose 11,500 yen per 60 kilogram pack of
rice last year. In 1985 the average price was 18,668 yen, he
said.  Yakuza Prices?  “JA are worse than the yakuza with the prices they charge
for fertilizer and other goods,” Hirose said. “JA doesn’t
focus enough on benefits to farmers.” For example, the town’s
JA office, where Hirose’s son works, employs 140 staff or almost
as many as the 200 farmers in the area, he said.  JA provides more than products, said Nahoko Motohiro, a
spokeswoman for JA-Zenchu, or the Central Union of Agricultural
Co-Operatives, in response e-mailed questions on prices.  “We also provide consultations to farmer-members for free,
unlike other retailers,” she said. “JA also sets a price
benchmark in regional markets that other retailers discount
off.”  JA’s membership adds influence to the rural vote, which is
harnessed mainly through the Liberal  Democratic Party  that ruled
Japan for almost 55 years until 2009, Honma said.  “They call it the iron triangle: JA, the LDP, and the
agriculture ministry,” Honma said. After 30 years of sitting on
government committees on agricultural reform, Honma said he has
seen almost none because JA, the bureaucrats and rural
politicians want to maintain their power above all else.  Outside Auditor  “We can’t even force JA to get an outside auditor,” he
said. “That would be a critical step” in assessing the real
profits and losses of Japan’s agricultural system.  What Japan’s agricultural policy has done so far is simply
protect farmers and that has weakened their competitiveness,
said Tetsuhide Mikamo, the director of research at Marubeni,
Japan’s biggest trading house in agricultural products.  The nation’s agricultural production peaked at about 12
trillion yen two decades ago, Mikamo said. Its value has dropped
to 8 trillion yen a year, 25 percent of which comes from rice,
he said.  Trade pacts like TPP in removing the import hurdles, such
as the 341 yen a kilogram tariff on rice -- equivalent to 778
percent of the price -- will force Japan’s farmers to become
more competitive and diversify supply sources, Mikamo said.  Rice Price  Just through consolidating the 1 hectare rice paddies that
most farmers have into larger fields run by companies the cost
to produce the crop would drop by 30 percent, according to
Marubeni research.  A move toward company-run farms as opposed to individuals
is starting in some parts of Japan, although the country lacks
people with experience of managing such operations, farmer
Sasaki, who opposes TPP, said. A rice grower with less than 20
hectares is unlikely to turn a profit, he said.  “Small farmers should quit or at the very least lease
their land to larger farmers,” Tokyo University’s Honma said.
“Many farmers support me in secret because with JA against TPP
it’s hard for them to speak up. The enemy is JA.”  Yoshio Hachiro, head of Democratic Party of Japan’s TPP
project team, indicated that the government is ready to push for
change.  Approaching Endgame  “There are some systems that we don’t need to keep when we
try to enhance our trade relations with other countries,”
Hachiro told reporters in Tokyo. “This is a chance to sell more
high-quality Japanese products overseas. Japan should be more
confident in opening up its market.”  Japan could cut its costs to produce a 60 kilogram bag of
rice to as low as 5,000 yen were full-time farmers to accrue
land of 50 hectares or more and improve yields with modern
technology, Honma said. As part-time farmers quit Japan’s rice
could become competitive abroad, he said.  To JA’s Fuji and Norinchukin’s Shimizu such calculations
are nonsense. Japan’s mountainous terrain won’t accommodate such
large farms and targeting exports is futile due to the price
difference with growers in China and Southeast Asia, Fuji and
Shimizu said.  “About 20 to 30 hectares is about as big as you can get in
Japan before you hit a mountain,” Fuji said. “The Japanese
politicians who push for TPP, they don’t understand agriculture,
they have no idea about farming,” added Shimizu.  One issue the two sides agree on is the situation cannot
continue. Japan’s population is shrinking, aging, and losing
wealth. The farmers are too, says Ken Kobayashi, chief executive
officer of Mitsubishi, Japan’s biggest trading house.  “Sooner rather than later the farming structure must
change, and it won’t be because of TPP,” Kobayashi, who favors
Japan joining, said. “This is an issue of  food security .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net ;
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  