-- Japan’s Ruling Party Splits on Central Bank Buying Foreign Bonds
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-08-02T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/japan-s-ruling-party-splits-on-central-bank-buying-foreign-bonds.html
Japan’s ruling party signaled a
division over a proposal for the nation’s central bank to
purchase foreign-currency bonds, a week before monetary policy
makers gather to assess whether to apply more stimulus.  Democratic Party  of Japan policy chief  Seiji Maehara  told
reporters in Tokyo yesterday that it was “desirable” for the
government and  Bank of Japan (8301)  to reach an agreement that allows
the BOJ to buy foreign securities. Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
this week told lawmakers that purchases akin to intervention in
the foreign-exchange market would be inappropriate for the
central bank.  The comments indicate increasing debate over the proposal,
months after former deputy BOJ governor Kazumasa Iwata advocated
a 50 trillion yen ($639 billion) initiative to combat the yen’s
gains through buying foreign debt. The  Finance Ministry  is in
charge of currency intervention in Japan, and the BOJ has
focused its stimulus on purchases of domestic government bonds.  “Political calls on the BOJ to help curb the yen’s
strength are gaining momentum,” said  Chotaro Morita , a fixed-
income strategist at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. Finance ministry and
BOJ officials oppose the bond proposal, suggesting the central
bank will use other stimulus if it needs to respond to
“mounting political pressure,” Morita said.  Takehiro Sato, formerly an economist at Morgan Stanley who
joined the BOJ board last month, said July 24 that buying
foreign bonds is one option for the central bank. Fellow
newcomer to the board Takahide Kiuchi said the same day that the
bank may need to consider “new forms of monetary easing.”  More Debate  “Global economic indicators from almost all key trading
partner regions are pressuring Japan for more policy action,”
Morgan Stanley economists in Japan led by  Robert Feldman  wrote
in a research note this week. “Monetary debate has perked up,
thanks to the new monetary policy committee members.”  The BOJ next gathers to set policy on Aug. 8-9.  The strength of the Japanese currency is adding to
manufacturers’ woes.  Sharp Corp. (6753)  said yesterday that it will cut
5,000 jobs after widening its annual loss forecast as demand for
televisions slumped. Sony Corp. and  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  are also
planning to shed workers following record losses.  Iwata, currently president of think tank Japan Center for
Economic Research, said in a Jan. 25 interview that even
companies like  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which has built up a
tolerance to an appreciating currency over the years, have been
“screaming” about the yen.  The yen traded at 78.24 per dollar as of 8:03 p.m. in Tokyo
yesterday, up almost 7 percent since mid-March. The currency
reached a postwar high of 75.35 in October and reached an 11-
year high against the euro this month.  Japanese Bonds  One of the central bank’s key monetary-policy tools, an
asset-purchase program, is encountering difficulties because the
BOJ wants to buy more Japanese  government bonds  than holders of
the securities are prepared to sell. The latest failure to meet
its purchase targets was on Aug. 1.  “We want to proceed with asset purchases steadily and
surely while examining whether yesterday’s failure to attract
enough bids will continue or whether that’s something we can
address by the creative management of the operation,” BOJ board
member Yoshihisa Morimoto told reporters in Kanazawa yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  