-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Climbed Less Than Forecast Last Week
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-02T13:04:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/jobless-claims-in-u-s-increased-less-than-forecast-last-week.html
The number of Americans filing
applications for  unemployment benefits  rose less than forecast
last week as annual auto shutdowns continued to influence the
number.  Jobless claims climbed by 8,000 to 365,000 in the week
ended July 28, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The  median  forecast of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase to 370,000. Starting next
week, the data should be clear of any influence from the annual
auto plant retooling closures that make it difficult to adjust
the data for seasonal variations, a Labor Department spokesman
said as the report was released to the press.  Apart from the statistical noise, the job market may take
time to heal as a global slowdown and looming U.S. fiscal policy
changes in the world’s biggest economy keep employers reluctant
to add workers. Unemployment above 8 percent is among reasons
 Federal Reserve  policy makers yesterday said they would take new
steps as needed to boost the expansion.  “It is still a difficult job market,” said  Ryan Sweet , a
senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,
 Pennsylvania . “Companies are not panicking by cutting workers.
They are going to wait out the uncertainty related to  Europe  and
the U.S. fiscal cliff.”  Futures Climb  Stock-index futures dropped as European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors that policy
makers were ready to take immediate steps to support the
region’s economy after the central bank left its benchmark rate
unchanged. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in September fell 0.9 percent to 1,358.8 at 9:02 a.m.
in  New York .  Claims estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
340,000 to 390,000. The Labor Department revised the previous
week’s figure up to 357,000 from an initially reported 353,000.  Another report today showed employers announced fewer job
cuts in July than the same month last year as dismissals eased
at retailers, government agencies and some manufacturers.  Planned firings fell 44.5 percent from July 2011 to a 15-
month low of 36,855, according to figures released by Chicago-
based Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. The year-over-year
decline in dismissals was the biggest since January 2011.  The four-week moving average for jobless claims, a less
volatile measure than the weekly figures, fell to 365,500 last
week, the lowest since March, from 368,250.  Jobs Forecast  The employment report for July, to be released tomorrow, is
projected to show payrolls increased by 100,000 after a 80,000
gain in June, according to the Bloomberg survey median. The
jobless rate, which has been stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009, was probably at 8.2 percent for a third moth.  Today’s report showed the number of people  continuing  to
receive jobless benefits dropped by 19,000 in the week ended
July 21 to 3.27 million, a two-month low.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
46,500 to 2.55 million in the week ended July 14.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 2.6 percent,
today’s report showed.  State Breakdown  Forty-seven states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while five reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it would idle 13 U.S. plants for one
week instead of two for its annual summer shutdown. The
Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker on July 25 lowered its
outlook for the year as ballooning losses in Europe overshadowed
earnings in  North America .  Businesses announcing job reductions last month included
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  The biggest maker of computer-networking
equipment, said July 23 it plans to eliminate about 1,300 jobs,
or 2 percent of the workforce, as Europe’s debt crisis and
sluggish corporate spending threaten sales.  The cuts are part of a “continuous process of simplifying
the company, as well as assessing the economic environment in
certain parts of the world,”  San Jose , California-based Cisco
said in an e-mailed statement.  Fed Action  Fed officials, at the conclusion of a two-day meeting
yesterday, left unchanged their statement that economic
conditions would likely warrant holding the benchmark interest
rate target near zero at least through late 2014.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will closely monitor
incoming information on economic and financial developments and
will provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a
stronger economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor
market conditions in a context of  price stability ,” it said in
a statement. The group “expects economic growth to remain
moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up very
gradually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  