-- Kazakhstan Central Bank Cuts Refinancing Rate to Record 5.5%
-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 2012-08-02T14:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/kazakhstan-central-bank-cuts-refinancing-rate-to-record-5-5-1-.html
Kazakhstan ’s central bank cut its
refinancing rate to a record after inflation eased for a second
month, bringing price growth further below the regulator’s
target range.  The National Bank of Kazakhstan reduced the benchmark  rate 
by a half-point to 5.5 percent, effective Aug. 6, the Almaty-
based regulator said in an e-mailed statement today. The biggest
energy producer in central Asia last decreased borrowing costs
in June.  “We had not expected the NBK’s easing to be so aggressive
as inflation risks remain high in the country,”  Julia Tsepliaeva , head of research at BNP Paribas SA in Moscow, wrote
by e-mail. “The new cut may mean that the NBK tends to
prioritize economic growth.”  Kazakhstan, which reduced its main rate for a fourth time
this year, is following emerging economies from  Brazil  to  India 
in lowering borrowing costs to ease credit flows and spur
growth. While the government predicts the economy of the second-
biggest oil producer in the former  Soviet Union  will gain 7
percent this year and maintain that pace of expansion until
2015,  gross domestic product  grew 5.6 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier.  Inflation Slows  Consumer-price  growth  last month decelerated to 4.7 percent
on an annual basis, the slowest since March and down from 4.9
percent in June. The inflation rate may be closer to the lower
level of the central bank’s target range of 6 percent to 8
percent by the end of this year, Chairman Grigori Marchenko said
July 25, Profinance website  reported .  The central bank has shaved 2 percentage points off its key
 interest rate  since the start of the year as inflation stayed
below its target range every month in 2012. That helped fuel
credit expansion and cut the share of non-performing loans in
the banking system to 30.9 percent in the second quarter,
according to BNP Paribas.  Kazakhstan’s inflation will end the year at “no more
than” 7 percent, Deputy Prime Minister Kairat Kelimbetov said
May 24. That compares with 7.4 percent at the end of last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  