-- Kenya Isolates Suspected Case of Ebola as Tests Are Carried Out
-- B y   J e s s i c a   N y a b o k e   a n d   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-08-02T12:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/kenya-isolates-suspected-case-of-ebola-as-tests-are-carried-out.html
A hospital in the western Kenyan town
of Eldoret said a middle-aged man suspected of being infected
with the Ebola virus has been placed in isolation, following an
outbreak of the disease in neighboring  Uganda  that killed 16.  The unidentified man was admitted earlier today to the Moi
Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret, 265 kilometers (165
miles) northwest of Nairobi, the capital, said John Kibosia,
acting director of the facility. The patient had travelled from
 Sudan  via Uganda to Eldoret last night and was exhibiting
symptoms of the disease, he said by phone from the town.  Initial indications are that the patient doesn’t have
Ebola, said Ian Njeru, head of the Disease Surveillance Centre
at  Kenya ’s Public Health Ministry. “We have taken samples which
will be analysed at the Kenya Medical Research Institute
laboratories to get a conclusive report,” he said in a phone
interview from Nairobi.  Uganda is monitoring 176 people who came in contact with
suspected  Ebola  victims after the viral illness was detected
last month in the western district of Kibaale, 109 miles (175
kilometers west of  Kampala , the capital. The outbreak of the
disease, for which there is no specific treatment or vaccine, is
the worst in Uganda since 2007, when 42 people died, according
to data on the U.S. Centers for Disease Control’s website.  The virus is transmitted by direct contact with blood,
secretions or other bodily fluids of infected persons. Symptoms
include fevers, muscle pain, diarrhea and internal and external
bleeding.  About 1,850 cases with more than 1,200 deaths have been
documented since Ebola was discovered in 1976, the  World Health
Organization  says. While the illness can be transmitted by
animals including chimpanzees and primates, the natural
reservoir of the virus is unknown, according to the Geneva-based
agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Nyaboke in Eldoret via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 