-- Khodorkovsky Appeals to Putin’s Commissioner for Case Review
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-08-02T17:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/khodorkovsky-appeals-to-putin-s-commissioner-for-verdict-review.html
Jailed oil tycoon  Mikhail Khodorkovsky  asked Boris Titov, Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s commissioner for business rights, to review a second
court ruling that’s set to keep him in jail until 2017.  “After I read about your readiness to conduct a public
examination of the verdict, I decided that was a good idea,”
Khodorkovsky said in a  letter  published on his website today.  Putin, who was president when Khodorkovsky was charged with
fraud and  tax evasion , returned to the Kremlin in May after four
years as prime minister with a  pledge  to propel Russia to 20th
from 120th in the  World Bank ’s Doing Business ranking “in the
nearest years.” Khodorkovsky is serving 13 years in prison for
two separate convictions. He says he was targeted by Putin for
financing opposition parties, an accusation the Kremlin denies.  In a letter to Khodorkovsky that was distributed to media
by e-mail, Titov advised approaching  Russia ’s Business Against
Corruption Center, calling it “a tool for working with
entrepreneurs’ appeals concerning violations of their rights by
the state.”  After his appointment in June, Titov said in an interview
that he would be ready to have a public review of Khodorkovsky’s
case after receiving a petition from the jailed tycoon. Titov
also said that Russia would send a positive signal to investors
by releasing the former businessman as part of an amnesty for
people convicted of economic crimes.  Titov later retracted his words about the proposed amnesty,
according to the Ekho Moskvy radio station. He wasn’t
immediately available to comment when Bloomberg called.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  