-- Knight Capital Faces Pressure to Find Savior After Loss
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-08-02T21:02:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/knight-capital-faces-pressure-to-find-investor-after-loss.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  faced
growing pressure to find a savior as clients from Citigroup Inc.
to  Vanguard Group  Inc. curtailed business with the firm
following a software bug that triggered a $440 million loss.  Knight, one of the biggest American market makers for
stocks, is exploring strategic and financial alternatives as the
malfunction cost the company almost four times  what it earned 
last year. The firm’s shares lost 75 percent in two days after
the faulty software flooded the market with unintended trades,
sending dozens of stocks into spasms.  “You can see how that one black swan event can literally
take this company out,”  Tim Hartzell , chief investment officer
at Houston, Texas-based Sequent Asset Management LLC, which
oversees about $350 million, said in a phone interview. “Maybe
this is the new chapter for  program trading  and algorithm
trading. We’ll have to go back and re-evaluate.”  Knight fought to preserve its business as concern grew
about its solvency. Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities
said bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get financing.
The trading problem, which caused stocks to swing as much as 151
percent, left the firm with a “large error position,” Knight
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce told Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and Stephanie Ruhle today.  While the company’s balance sheet was “severely
impacted,” its broker/dealer subsidiaries are in compliance
with  capital requirements , according to a statement.  ‘Capable People’  “We’re talking to a lot of capable people, people who are
in touch with situations like this,” Joyce said. “This was an
anomaly, not one we’re proud of.”  Knight  shares plunged  as investors speculated about the
company’s future as it reviews strategic options. Joyce declined
to elaborate during today’s interview, saying “you might
imagine during the day-to-day activity, it’s kind of hard to
comment.”  “They need to do something fast,” said Peter Lenardos, an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “There is a desperate
need for capital, as Knight themselves acknowledge,” he said.
“It might be private equity, it could be a big sell-side bank,
it could be a peer like Citadel.”  Electronic Trading  Katie Spring , a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Citadel LLC,
the investment firm run by  Ken Griffin , declined to comment.
Citadel’s electronic-trading and market-making business is a
unit of Citadel Securities which says it executes about 10
percent of U.S. equity volume, according to its website, a
similar amount to Knight.  “The businesses they are in are attractive to other
players,” Justin Schack, managing director for market-structure
analysis at Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said in a phone
interview. “The likely candidates include banks that have an
equity capital markets business and firms that want to get into
market making.”  Knight had $365 million of cash as of the end of June, with
about $70 million in its revolving  credit line , Robert Rutschow,
a New York-based analyst with CLSA wrote in a report today. He
said there’s a risk it will break loan covenants and cut his
rating on the stock to sell from outperform.  Investors hold $375 million of Knight convertible notes and
can demand repayment if there’s a “fundamental change,”
including a sale, according to a 10-K filing. The biggest owners
of the notes are Goldman Sachs, Oaktree Capital Management,
Invesco Ltd. and Citadel Advisors LLC, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bonds lost 10.6 cents to 72.5 cents
on the dollar today, sending the yield up to 17 percent.  ‘Game Plan’  “Without finding a buyer, it’s going to be tough to have
the working capital to keep the firm afloat for much more than a
week,” Matthew Heinz, a  St. Louis , Missouri-based analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in a phone interview. “You may be
able to secure some emergency funding to hold them off before a
buyer can come in. That’s the game plan for Knight right now.”  Knight’s shares plunged 63 percent to $2.58 today after
tumbling 33 percent yesterday. The stock peaked at $78.47 in
1999, data compiled by Bloomberg show. About 155 million shares
changed hands today, making it the most-actively traded stock on
U.S. exchanges, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on
companies with a market value of at least $50 million.  Programming Bug  The programming bug swept through the market at the open of
exchanges on a day when Joyce, a 57-year-old Harvard College
graduate known as TJ, limped into work following knee surgery.
Joyce said that while the bug sent “a ton of orders, all
erroneous” into the market as the firm prepared to trade with
the NYSE’s new so-called retail liquidity program, it had
“nothing to do” with the NYSE.  “Technology breaks,” Joyce told Bloomberg TV. “It ain’t
good. We don’t look forward to it.” He added that the problem
is mainly one for his firm, and “we did not harm individual
investors, we got them out of the way.”  Knight’s market-making unit executed a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June, according to its
website. The unit traded 711 million exchange-listed shares a
day in June, according to data compiled by the company and
Bloomberg.  The software was fixed, he said, and some clients of the
market-making business were executing with the firm by the end
of yesterday after Knight told them initially to go elsewhere.  Trade Routing  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank, refrained from
routing some trades through Knight, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the matter. Vanguard Group is steering
brokerage orders through other vendors, a company spokesman,
 John Woerth , said in an e-mailed statement.  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. has not yet started routing to
Knight again, spokeswoman  Kim Hillyer  said.  “We are testing,” she said in a phone interview. “We
want to make sure the client experience remains good.”  Scottrade Inc. has several market makers and is not
utilizing Knight “at this point in time” for equity execution,
spokesman Whitney Ellis said in an e-mail. Scottrade routed 41
percent of its market orders for NYSE securities to Knight
during the second quarter, according to a filing.  Knight spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons said she did not have
“any confirmation or comment” about other clients still
sending trades elsewhere. Stephen Austin, a spokesman at
 Fidelity Investments  in Boston, declined to comment.  Black Eye  The NYSE reviewed trading in 140 stocks from  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) 
to AT&T Inc. yesterday as the market’s open was disrupted.
Trades that occurred during the height of the volatility were
canceled in six securities, where prices swung at least 30
percent in the first 45 minutes. Trades in all of the other
stocks were allowed to stand.  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market stilled haunted by
the May 2010 market crash, the botched initial public offering
of Facebook Inc. and failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  Democratic U.S. Representative Maxine Waters of California
said in an e-mailed statement that she is seeking hearings on
the matter as a “drumbeat” of errors in stock markets shows
the need for stronger controls.  The problem shows regulation is “broken” and a study
group should be convened to review technology and market
structure,  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said in an interview. Regulators would have
been able to stop incidents such as yesterday’s breakdown if
they didn’t face a lack of resources, he said.  Oversight Failure  “The ability of regulators to do their job has never been
weaker than it is today because of the failure of the oversight
process,” Levitt, 81, said today in an interview. Levitt serves
as a consultant to Getco LLC and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and is
a director of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. “Congress
has a greater responsibility for what we’re seeing today than
any regulator or any particular part of the industry. They’ve
allowed this to happen.”  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman with the SEC, said in an e-mail
that regulators are monitoring the situation and in continuous
contact with the NYSE and other market participants.  Knight’s $440 million loss compares with net income of
$115.2 million in 2011 and is more than the company’s market
value of $253 million at the close today, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The company was worth as much as $4.8 billion in
2000 and valued at more than $1 billion before yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The loss represents about 40 percent of Knight’s  book value 
and would “exhaust” the firm’s cash, according to CLSA Credit
Agricole Securities, which said Knight should consider selling
itself.  ‘At Risk’  “We believe Knight Capital is at risk of bankruptcy
following the loss and so we are lowering our rating to sell,”
Robert Rutschow, a New York-based analyst with CLSA who had an
outperform rating on the stock, wrote in a note today. He also
cut the  price estimate  to $3 from $9. “The company’s best
option at this point is a sale.”  Knight has been at the center of U.S. equities trading for
more than a decade. It was founded in 1995 and grew during the
bull market of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of
the technology stocks that led the market’s surge and subsequent
plunge. It had 1,423 employees at the end of 2011, according to
a  regulatory filing . Knight grew through more than 15 mergers
and acquisitions since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Institutional Broker  Joyce became CEO and president in 2002 after serving for
five months as head of global trading for the institutional
brokerage business at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He spent 14
years at Merrill Lynch & Co. overseeing electronic trading and
worked on the  acquisition  of Knight rival market-maker Herzog,
Heine & Geduld Inc. in 2000.  The company is in discussions about a potential merger or
capital investment with trading firm Virtu Financial LLC, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unnamed people familiar
with the matter.  “The first thing I did in the morning is to have an
analyst take a look at Knight to see whether it’s a company we’d
like to own a piece of,”  Thomas Caldwell , who oversees about $1
billion as chairman and chief executive officer of Toronto-based
Caldwell Securities, said in a phone interview. “I’m sure some
people are sharpening their pencils to see whether this is
something that they want to continue or it’s something that can
break again and again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  