-- Knight Has ‘All Hands on Deck’ After $440 Million Bug
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-08-02T19:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/knight-has-all-hands-on-deck-after-440-million-bug.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  has “all
hands on deck” and is in close contact with creditors, clients
and counterparties as it tries to weather trading errors that
cost it $440 million, Chief Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  Joyce said it’s “hard to comment” on discussions with
creditors as Knight stock extended a two-day plunge to 77
percent and the firm explored strategic and financial
alternatives following a loss almost four times its annual
profit. The problems were triggered by what Joyce called “a
large bug” in software as the company, one of the largest U.S.
market makers, prepared to trade with a  New York  Stock Exchange
program catering to individual investors. Some clients refrained
from doing business with the firm today.  “Technology breaks,” Joyce said in an interview from
 Jersey City , New Jersey-based Knight on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” program with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  today. “It ain’t good. We don’t look forward to it.”  Knight was fighting to preserve its business as concern
grew about its solvency and pressure built for it to find a
buyer or investor. Analysts at CLSA Credit Agricole Securities
said bankruptcy was a possibility if it failed to get financing.
The trading problem caused dozens of stocks to swing as much as
151 percent and left the firm with what Joyce called a “large
error position.”  Knight said its broker/dealer subsidiaries are in
compliance with  capital requirements . The company is in contact
with clients, counterparties and creditors as it works to
recover, Joyce said.  ‘Capable People’  “We’re talking to a lot of capable people, people who are
in touch with situations like this,” Joyce told Bloomberg TV.
“You might imagine during the day-to-day activity, it’s kind of
hard to comment” on discussions about possible  credit lines .  Knight’s  shares  plunged 60 percent to $2.75 at 3:06 p.m.
New York time, after dropping 33 percent yesterday. Today’s
price is the lowest since the initial offering in 1998 and
compares with its peak of $78.47 the next year, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  About 124 million shares of Knight changed hands today,
making  it the most-actively traded stock on U.S. exchanges,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg of companies with a
market value of at least $50 million.  The programming bug swept through the market at the open of
exchanges on a day when Joyce, a 57-year-old Harvard College
graduate known as TJ, limped into work following knee surgery.
Joyce said that while the bug sent “a ton of orders, all
erroneous” into the market as the firm prepared to trade with
the  NYSE (NYX) ’s new so-called retail liquidity program, it had
“nothing to do” with the NYSE.  Routing Elsewhere  The bad software code is gone now, he said, and some
clients of the market-making business were executing with the
firm by the end of yesterday after Knight told them initially to
go elsewhere.  Citigroup Inc., the third-largest  U.S. bank , is temporarily
refraining from routing some trades through Knight, according to
a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  TD Ameritrade
Holding Corp. (AMTD)  has not yet started routing to Knight again,
spokeswoman  Kim Hillyer  said.  “We are testing,” she said in a phone interview. “We
want to make sure the client experience remains good.”  Knight spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons said she did not have
“any confirmation or comment” about other clients still
sending trades elsewhere. Stephen Austin, a spokesman at
 Fidelity Investments  in  Boston , declined to comment.  The NYSE reviewed trading in 140 stocks from  Molycorp Inc. (MCP) 
to AT&T Inc. yesterday as the market’s open was disrupted.
Trades that occurred during the height of the volatility were
canceled in six securities, where prices swung at least 30
percent in the first 45 minutes. Trades in all of the other
stocks were allowed to stand.  Error ‘Drumbeat’  The software malfunction was the latest black eye for the
computer infrastructure of an equity market stilled haunted by
the May 2010 market crash, the botched initial public offering
of Facebook Inc. and failed IPO of Bats Global Markets Inc.  Democratic U.S. Representative Maxine Waters of California
said in an e-mailed statement that she is seeking hearings on
the matter as a “drumbeat” of errors in stock markets shows
the need for stronger controls.  Yesterday’s problem shows regulation is “broken” and a
study group should be convened to review technology and market
structure,  Arthur Levitt , former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission, said in an interview. Regulators would have
been able to stop incidents such as yesterday’s breakdown if
they didn’t face a lack of resources, he said.  Regulator Scrutiny  “The ability of regulators to do their job has never been
weaker than it is today because of the failure of the oversight
process,” Levitt, 81, said today in an interview. Levitt serves
as a consultant to Getco LLC and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and is
a director of Bloomberg LP, parent of Bloomberg News. “Congress
has a greater responsibility for what we’re seeing today than
any regulator or any particular part of the industry. They’ve
allowed this to happen.”  Kevin Callahan , a spokesman with the SEC, said in an e-mail
that regulators are “closely monitoring the situation and in
continuous contact with the NYSE and other market
participants.”  Knight’s market-making unit executed a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June, according to its
 website . The unit traded 711 million exchange-listed shares a
day in June, or about 10 percent of the U.S. market, according
to data compiled by the company and Bloomberg.  ‘Most Susceptible’  “Market makers are the most susceptible to these types of
problems, both as initiators of the problems and as victims of
the problems,” Bernard Donefer, a professor of  information
systems  in financial markets at  Baruch College , part of the  City
University  of New York, and New York University’s Stern School
of Business, said in a phone interview. “The problem you have
is contagion. A problem in one place and one time can cascade
across asset classes and market makers. The contagion scares me
most of all.”  Knight’s $440 million loss compares with net income of
$115.2 million in 2011 and is more than the company’s market
value of $272 million today, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The company was worth as much as $4.8 billion in 2000 and valued
at more than $1 billion before yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Capital Base  “Although the company’s capital base has been severely
impacted, the company’s broker/dealer subsidiaries are in full
compliance with their net capital requirements,” Knight said
today. “The company is actively pursuing its strategic and
financing alternatives to strengthen its capital base.”  The loss represents about 40 percent of Knight’s book value
and would “exhaust” the firm’s cash, according to CLSA Credit
Agricole Securities, which said Knight should consider selling
itself.  “We believe  Knight Capital  is at risk of bankruptcy
following the loss and so we are lowering our rating to sell,”
Robert Rutschow, a New York-based analyst with CLSA who had an
outperform rating on the stock, wrote in a note today. He also
cut the price estimate to $3 from $9. “The company’s best
option at this point is a sale.”  Knight’s $375 million of 3.5 percent convertible bonds fell
10.125 cents to 73 cents on the dollar, according to Trace, the
bond-pricing reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. The yield increased to 16.7 percent.  While Knight reported July 18 that second-quarter earnings
exceeded analyst projections, sales fell short by 1.7 percent.
Cash and equivalents fell 22 percent to $364.8 million in the
last quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  1995 Founding  “This loss is larger than we expected,” Rich Repetto, a
New York-based analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote
in an e-mail. “More monitoring and safeguards need to be built
into these trading algorithms of both market makers and
exchanges.”  Knight has been at the center of U.S. equities trading for
more than a decade. It was founded in 1995 and grew during the
bull market of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of
the technology stocks that led the market’s surge and subsequent
plunge. It had 1,423 employees at the end of 2011, according to
a regulatory filing. Knight grew through more than 15 mergers
and acquisitions since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Joyce became CEO and president in 2002 after serving for
five months as head of global trading for the institutional
brokerage business at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He spent 14
years at Merrill Lynch & Co. overseeing electronic trading and
worked on the acquisition of Knight rival market-maker Herzog,
Heine & Geduld Inc. in 2000.  Sharpening Pencils  Speculation swirled through the market about what options
Knight may be considering as it reviews its options. Joyce
declined to comment during today’s interview on the nature or
existence of specific conversations with private-equity firms.  The company is in discussions about a potential merger or
capital investment with trading firm Virtu Financial LLC, the
Wall Street Journal reported, citing unnamed people familiar
with the matter.  “The first thing I did in the morning is to have an
analyst take a look at Knight to see whether it’s a company we’d
like to own a piece of,”  Thomas Caldwell , who oversees about $1
billion as chairman and chief executive officer of Toronto-based
Caldwell Securities, said in a phone interview. “I’m sure some
people are sharpening their pencils to see whether this is
something that they want to continue or it’s something that can
break again and again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  