-- Knight Explores Options on $440 Million Trade-Error Loss
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-08-02T13:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/knight-says-losses-from-trading-breakdown-are-440-million.html
Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  said losses
from yesterday’s trading breakdown are $440 million, almost
quadruple its 2011 net income and more than some analysts had
estimated, and the firm is exploring strategic and financial
alternatives. Its stock has lost 66 percent in two days.  Knight said it will continue its trading and market-making
today as it considers its options. Yesterday’s issue was related
to the installation of trading software and resulted in the
company sending “numerous erroneous orders,” the  Jersey City ,
New Jersey-based firm said today. The stock tumbled 50 percent
to $3.46 at 9:36 a.m. New York time today.  Shares of Knight, one of the largest U.S. market makers,
plunged 33 percent in record  volume  yesterday as investors
speculated on how much the breakdown that sent stocks swinging
as much as 151 percent will cost the company. Analysts at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. estimated yesterday that Knight’s loss
would be as much as $170 million, while Raymond James &
Associates Inc. said the amount could be “hundreds of
millions.”  “Although the company’s  capital base  has been severely
impacted, the company’s broker/dealer subsidiaries are in full
compliance with their net  capital requirements ,” Knight said
today. “The company is actively pursuing its strategic and
financing alternatives to strengthen its capital base.”  140 Stocks  The New York Stock Exchange reviewed trading in 140 stocks
from  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  to AT&T Inc. yesterday as the market’s open
was disrupted. Trades that occurred during the height of the
volatility were canceled in six securities, where prices swung
at least 30 percent in the first 45 minutes.  Knight’s market-making unit executed a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June with volume of 3.1
billion shares, according to its  website .  The $440 million loss compares with  net income  of $115.2
million in 2011 on revenue of $1.4 billion, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘More Monitoring’  “This loss is larger than we expected,” Rich Repetto, a
New York-based analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP, wrote
in an e-mail. “More monitoring and safeguards need to be built
into these trading algorithms of both market makers and
exchanges.”  As stock swings mounted yesterday, the company told some
clients of its market-making business that a “technical issue”
was affecting its systems and advised them to route orders
elsewhere, according to e-mails from spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons yesterday. The issue was confined to that unit and
its other operations were unaffected, she said.  The errors were caused by a malfunction in a trading
algorithm, according to a person at Knight who asked to remain
anonymous because the matter hasn’t been publicized.  While Knight reported July 18 that second-quarter earnings
 exceeded  analyst projections, sales fell short by 1.7 percent.
 Cash and short-term investments  rose 55 percent to $7.5 billion
in the second quarter of 2012, and the company’s debt amounted
to 46.4 times total assets, compared with 64 a year ago, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  