-- Knight Algo Nightmare Dents Market as Trader Sounds Alarm
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g ,   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   L u   W a n g
-- 2012-08-02T21:36:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/knight-algo-nightmare-dents-market-as-trader-sounds-alarm.html
As computer errors at one of the
largest U.S. market makers sent stocks swinging as much as 151
percent, Joseph Cangemi, a broker at ConvergEx Group, acted like
a driver approaching a car crash. He slowed down.  “You have to put on your extra-sensitivity helmets and
look for every possible bit of information to make prudent
decisions,” said Cangemi, the head of equity sales and trading
at the New York-based firm. “We were in a heightened state of
alarm and we’re actually still in a heightened state of alarm.”  The New York Stock Exchange reviewed trading in 140 stocks
from Molycorp Inc. to  AT&T Inc. (T)  yesterday as the market’s open
was rocked. Shares of  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , whose
algorithms help execute about $20 billion of trades on an
average day, tumbled the most ever on speculation it was
responsible. Trades that occurred during the height of the
volatility were canceled in six securities.  Knight said today that losses from the trading breakdown
are $440 million, almost quadruple its 2011 net income and more
than some analysts had estimated, and the firm is exploring
strategic and financial alternatives. Its stock plunged 63
percent to $2.58 at 4 p.m. in New York today for a two-day slump
of 75 percent.  While almost all stock transactions in the U.S. used to be
handled by three exchanges, regulations to increase competition
and reduce costs have fragmented markets across about 50
different venues, raising concerns about integrity when the
computers that increasingly dominate trading malfunction. For
some investors, yesterday’s disruptions were a reminder that the
issues raised in May 2010 when the so-called flash crash briefly
wiped out $862 billion from U.S. equities have yet to be solved.  ‘Spilled Coffee’  “Everyone’s scratching their heads and going, ‘OK, well,
who spilled coffee on the computer again?’”  Peter Sorrentino ,
who helps oversee $14.7 billion as a senior  money manager  at
Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati, said in a phone
interview. “After the flash crash, anytime you see something
like this, you definitely pause.”  The Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission blamed a broker’s algorithm for
setting into motion the events that caused the market crash in
May 2010.  Stocks Reviewed  Among the stocks that were reviewed by the NYSE were nine
members of the  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU) , companies with
almost $1 trillion in combined market value. They included Alcoa
Inc.,  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and AT&T.  Instant messaging systems used by traders were full of
messages saying “What the heck, what’s going on, there’s no
news, I’m not aware of any news, dig into this, has anybody
heard anything?” said Brian Barish, who oversees $7 billion as
president and chief investment officer at Denver-based Cambiar
Investors LLC.  As the stock swings mounted with Dole Food Co. rising as
much as 15 percent and Harley-Davidson Inc. falling as much as
12 percent, Knight advised clients to route orders elsewhere.
The issue was confined to its market-making unit and its other
operations were unaffected, the company said.  Voided Trades  Trades that occurred 30 percent above or below the opening
price in Wizard Software Corp.,  China Cord Blood Corp. (CO) , Reaves
Utility Income Fund, E-House China Holdings Ltd., American
Reprographics Co. and Quicksilver Resources Inc. will be voided,
according to a statement on the NYSE website.  Knight’s technical issue came less than two weeks after
investors in three of the biggest Dow stocks were whipsawed by
price swings that repeated every hour, fueling speculation the
moves were a consequence of computerized trading. The cause of
that incident hasn’t yet been determined.  The fluctuations also follow the Facebook Inc. initial
public offering in May, when Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. botched the
opening auction of the social network’s shares. That came two
months after the withdrawal by Bats Global Markets Inc. of its
IPO when the market company couldn’t get its own stock to trade
on its exchange.  Automated Technology  “It’s like technology out of control,” Kenneth Polcari,
managing director at ICAP Plc’s equities unit and a floor trader
at the New York Stock Exchange, said in a telephone interview.
“How many times have we seen this? We saw it happen on Nasdaq
with Facebook. We’ve seen it happen in other technology
platforms. What’s frustrating about this is that the business
has become so automated and electronic that in certain times,
you don’t feel like you have control.”  Thomas Joyce, Knight’s chief executive officer, was among
the most vocal critics of the Nasdaq Stock Market for its
mishandling of the  Facebook IPO . His firm lost $35.4 million in
trading related to the May 18 debut.  “Their technology failed and then there were a series of
decisions made after the technology failed that were
unfortunate,” Joyce said in a July 19 interview on Bloomberg
Television. “That organization will learn from what happened
that day and I have no doubt will improve upon it.”  Flash Crash  Stock traders on desks during the so-called flash crash two
years ago said that while they were reminded of the incident
yesterday, the scope of the issue was not as great as when the
Dow slid  as much as  998.5 points on May 6, 2010.  “This is the flash crash of the week,” Doug Roberts,
chief investment strategist for Shrewsbury, New Jersey-based
Channel Capital Research, said in a telephone interview. “This
is saying that we haven’t really fixed a lot of our problems. We
haven’t really dealt with them, and they’re not going to
disappear. The fundamental underpinnings are still a problem. It
could definitely happen again.”  The disruptions may discourage investors who pulled $135
billion from U.S. stock mutual funds last year, the highest
total after 2008. Share volume on American equity venues has
fallen 13 percent this year amid rising volatility and concern
the global recovery is slowing.  Circuit Breakers  At least five stocks were halted on the NYSE by so-called
circuit breakers during the first 35 minutes of trading,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. China Cord Blood Corp.,
a stem-cell services company with a market value of $177.7
million, surged as much as 151 percent and was paused at 10:04
a.m. in New York. Some of the trades were later canceled.
 Molycorp Inc. (MCP) , which produces rare-earth minerals, was halted at
9:53 a.m. after losing 18 percent.  The volatility curbs stop trading in a stock when a
company’s shares move 10 percent in five minutes. The circuit
breakers, as well as requirements that market makers supply
quotes closer to the best available prices and a uniform system
across exchanges for canceling errant transactions, are a legacy
of the 2010 flash crash.  “That was marketwide, that was  huge volume , that was
massive, and that was a lot of money on the move,” Sorrentino
at Huntington Advisors said of the 2010 event. “This morning it
was money but it wasn’t akin to that. Everybody put their fears
of Mayan prophecies aside and just said, ’This looks weird.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  