-- Knight Bruised as Analyst Estimates $170 Million Loss
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-08-02T12:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/knight-bruised-as-analyst-estimates-170-million-loss.html
The latest black eye for U.S. equity
markets is proving a body blow for  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)   Shares of the Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm plunged 33
percent, the most ever, in record  volume  yesterday as investors
speculated on how much a breakdown that whipsawed owners of 140
stocks will cost the company. Knight said losses from the errors
are $440 million, more than some analysts had estimated, and the
firm is exploring strategic and financial alternatives,
according to a statement today. Its stock plunged a further 58
percent to $2.85 in early trading today.  Knight, led by 57-year-old Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Joyce, has been at the center of U.S. equities
for a decade as one of the biggest market makers, executing
almost $20 billion of trades a day in June. Its importance was
never so visible as yesterday when its computers helped spur
sudden price swings of 10 percent or more in dozens of
companies. The issue was related to the installation of trading
software and resulted in the company sending “numerous
erroneous orders,” the Knight said today.  “This isn’t good for the market overall and it’s not good
for Knight,” Sang Lee, managing partner at Boston-based
research firm Aite Group LLC, said in a phone interview. “They
took a beating in their share price. It’s not going to devastate
the business of Knight since they’re a major market maker in
equities. But when you’re a major player like Knight, mistakes
will have a more expanded impact.”  Shares Plunge  Knight’s stock  tumbled  $3.39 to $6.94 yesterday, its lowest
close since 2003, as a record 64 million shares changed hands.
More than $300 million was erased from the company’s market
value to leave the shares worth  $682 million , smaller than
Emeryville, California-based educational software-maker LeapFrog
Enterprises Inc. and e-commerce company Web.com Group Inc. in
Jacksonville,  Florida .  The decline was justified, analysts Kenneth B. Worthington
and Paul Lanks at JPMorgan Chase & Co. said yesterday. They had
predicted Knight’s “potential hit to revenue” may total $170
million based their projections on a comparison of where the 140
stocks that were affected traded in the morning with levels
after they recovered, according to a note to clients.  “The market is accurately evaluating the situation with
the potential downside of losses and hit to Knight’s market-
making reputation,” they wrote. “We don’t see the dip as a
buying opportunity.”  45 Minutes  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  reviewed trading between 9:30 a.m. and 10:15
a.m.  New York  time in the affected securities listed on the New
York Stock Exchange and NYSE MKT, the former  American Stock
Exchange , including Bank of America Corp. and Caterpillar Inc.
In a decision that it said isn’t subject to appeal, NYSE
canceled trades in six securities where prices swung at least 30
percent in the first 45 minutes, according to a statement on its
website.  As stock swings mounted yesterday, Knight told some clients
of its market-making business that a “technical issue” was
affecting its systems and advised them to route orders
elsewhere, according to e-mails from spokeswoman Kara Fitzsimmons yesterday. The issue was confined to that unit and
its other operations were unaffected, she said.  One issue Knight may face with regulators is explaining why
trading was disrupted for up to 45 minutes and why the problem
wasn’t caught soon enough to stem the fluctuations, Lee said.
Knight shareholders may want to know whether the market maker is
still holding the positions it acquired yesterday or unwound the
trades and took a loss, he said.  Knee Surgery  Fitzsimmons didn’t provide a comment beyond the statement.
Joyce, who had knee surgery on July 31 and came to work
yesterday, was unavailable, the spokeswoman said. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission is monitoring the situation,
spokesman  Kevin Callahan  said in an e-mail.  Nasdaq OMX Group
Inc. (NDAQ)  spokesman Robert Madden declined to comment.  The errors were caused by a malfunction in a trading
algorithm, according to a person at Knight who asked to remain
anonymous because the matter hasn’t been publicized. Technicians
are reviewing the possibility the error was generated by faulty
software, the person said.  Michael T. Dorsey , Knight’s general counsel from 1998 until
2002, said firms involved in automated and high-frequency
trading including Knight must improve risk controls. He is now
an associate director at Oyster Consulting LLC, a  Glen Allen ,
Virginia-based firm that provides regulatory and compliance
advisory services to broker-dealers and other financial firms.  ‘Tighten Up’  “The oversight of the use of algorithms isn’t tight enough
in the industry,” Dorsey said in a phone interview. “The
people who run these algorithms and trading models will have to
do something from a supervisory and risk management standpoint
to tighten up on the testing and pre-trade risk controls to
raise the comfort level that they actually perform as they’re
intended to perform.”  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  rose more than 10 percent before
fluctuations in the stock narrowed and it finished up 6 cents at
$11.51. In intraday trading, Manitowoc Co. gained as much as 14
percent, Pandora Media Inc. climbed 11 percent and  Level 3
Communications Inc. (LVLT)  plunged 15 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. None ended more than 4 percent away from
the previous close.  Knight’s market-making business traded a daily average of
$19.5 billion worth of equities in June with volume of 3.1
billion shares, according to its  website .  Technology Trader  The firm was founded in 1995 and grew during the bull
market of the late 1990s into one of the biggest traders of the
technology stocks that led the market’s surge and subsequent
plunge. It had 1,423 employees at the end of 2011, according to
a regulatory filing.  Knight has also grown through more than 15  mergers  and
acquisitions since 2000, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The company bought the Attain ECN, an electronic
market, in 2005 from Domestic Securities Inc. Knight later sold
stakes in the electronic venue that it renamed Direct Edge
Holdings LLC and spun out as a separate company. Direct Edge,
based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , is now the fourth-largest
American equity exchange operator.  The broker-dealer purchased a foreign exchange business and
a trading unit on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange. The
company makes markets in U.S. equities and options and has an
institutional sales and trading business in stocks and fixed-
income. It also has an electronic stock execution business and
provides algorithms to asset managers and other firms.  TJ’s CV  Joyce, known in the industry as TJ, became CEO and
president of Knight in 2002 after serving for five months as
head of global trading for the institutional brokerage business
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. He spent 14 years at Merrill Lynch
& Co. overseeing electronic trading and worked on the
acquisition of Knight rival market-maker Herzog, Heine & Geduld
Inc. in 2000. Joyce graduated with a degree in economics from
 Harvard College  in 1977.  Knight, at the time called Knight Trading Group Inc.,
experienced a software failure on June 3, 2002, days after Joyce
joined the firm, that caused its computer systems to send orders
to sell almost 1 million of its own shares, pushing the stock
down more than 50 percent.  Canceled Trades  All the trades by Knight, then the largest market maker in
 Nasdaq  stocks, were canceled, according to Nasdaq and the
Cincinnati Stock Exchange. More than 4 million shares of Knight
changed hands that day, triple the daily average that year.  “As a leader, TJ is able to show resolve under difficult
situations and I wouldn’t expect anything different in this
instance,” Christopher Nagy, president of KOR Trading LLC in
Omaha,  Nebraska , which consults for brokers and exchanges, said
in a phone interview. Even so, the issue “could affect Knight’s
ability to commit capital and make markets for retail brokers,”
he said.  “The systemic risk is that today we’ve got a handful of
firms that control a significant amount of volume in the U.S.,”
Nagy said. “We all talk about fragmentation in the marketplace
with lots of venue choice, but the reality is the order flow is
aggregated with just a handful of vendors. How does this affect
Knight? What hit does this have on earnings?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 