-- Komen Cancer Group Criticized for Ads Backing Mammograms
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-02T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/komen-cancer-group-criticized-for-ads-backing-mammograms.html
Susan G. Komen for the Cure , the
largest breast-cancer advocacy group, was criticized by doctors
for overstating the benefits of mammograms and failing to tell
women about the risks in its last public advertising campaign.  The most recent Komen ads urged regular  mammograms  and
implied that skipping them was harmful,  Steven Woloshin  and  Lisa
Schwartz , directors of the Center for Medicine and the Media at
Dartmouth Medical School in Hanover,  New Hampshire , wrote today
in the British Medical Journal. The advantages are much less
clear and woman should be told the positive and negative to make
an informed decision, they said.  Cancer screening programs have been questioned in recent
years as studies showed they can identify tumors that may never
cause harm, though treating them has physical, emotional and
financial implications. The  U.S. Preventive Service Task Force 
spurred controversy starting in 2009 with its recommendations to
limit mammograms at younger ages for women and eliminate a
standard prostate cancer test for men.  “We think Komen can do a lot better by giving women the
information they need to weigh the benefits and the harms,”
Woloshin said in a telephone interview. “They aren’t doing a
good job. The ads are misleading and give false promises.”  The ads emphasize that five-year survival for  breast cancer 
is 98 percent when caught early, and 23 percent when it’s not.
Those percentages are apples and oranges, Woloshin said, and
can’t be directly compared. A tiny tumor, detectable only with
advanced screening, may take more than five years to kill a
woman, while one that can be felt by hand would be deadly
faster, regardless of whether any treatment is used.  Treatment Harms  If the tumor is relatively harmless and destined to never
cause any symptoms for the woman, identifying it early would
lead to emotional turmoil, physical pain and side effects from
fighting it and wasted expense, he said.  Breast cancer killed an estimated 40,000 women last year
and is the  second-leading  cause of death among women, exceeded
only by  lung cancer , according to the Atlanta-based  American
Cancer Society . For every woman whose life is saved because of
screening, two to 10 other women are diagnosed unnecessarily and
treated with drugs that give them no benefit, Woloshin said.  The Dallas-based Komen group, battered by a controversy over
its since-revoked decision to end about $680,000 in grants to
 Planned Parenthood , declined to comment directly on the criticisms
about its ad programs. Instead, it emphasized the benefits of
screening and its efforts to further  cancer research .  “Everyone agrees that mammography isn’t perfect, but it’s
the best widely available detection tool that we have today,”
 Chandini Portteus , Komen’s vice president of research,
evaluation and scientific programs, said in a statement. “The
numbers are not in question. Early detection allows for early
treatment, which gives women the best chance of surviving.”  Research Goals  The advocacy group is spending millions of dollars on
research to detect breast cancer even earlier and determine
which tumors will spread and need treatment, Portteus said.  “While we invest in getting those answers, we think it’s
simply irresponsible to effectively discourage women from taking
steps to know what’s going on with their health,” she said.
“We encourage women to work with their health-care providers to
find out what’s right for them.”  Woloshin said the criticism may inspire the group to change
its message when it rolls out its next campaign for breast-
cancer awareness month in October. To truly serve women’s best
interests, they need fair and balanced information, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 