-- Kraft Foods Profit Tops Estimates on Higher Pricing
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-02T23:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/kraft-foods-profit-tops-estimates-on-higher-pricing.html
Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , the food producer
that will split in two later this year, reported second-quarter
profit that topped analysts’ estimates after boosting prices.  Net income in the quarter climbed 5.4 percent to $1.03
billion, or 58 cents a share, from $976 million, or 55 cents, a
year earlier, the Northfield, Illinois-based company said today
in a statement. Excluding some items, operating profit was 68
cents a share, ahead of the 66-cent average of 18 analysts.  Kraft, the producer of its self-named macaroni and cheese
and Cadbury chocolates, boosted prices to help recoup higher
costs for commodities and mitigate the effect of the stronger
dollar that reduced the value of sales overseas. The company is
splitting up to help the snacks business push products into
 emerging markets  while the slower-growing, higher-margin grocery
business returns cash to shareholders.  Kraft’s revenue fell 4.3 percent to $13.3 billion in the
three months ended June 30 as currency exchange rates and
accounting calendar changes hurt sales growth. Excluding those
factors, sales rose 3.4 percent, Kraft said.  The company raised prices in the quarter, which helped push
operating income up 4 percent to $1.88 billion. Its operating
income margin rose to 14.1 percent from 13 percent.  Cadbury Acquisition  Kraft is also generating savings by getting better
distribution in overseas markets using channels established by
Cadbury, which Kraft acquired in 2010, said  Matt Arnold , an
analyst at St. Louis-based Edward Jones & Co., in a telephone
interview.  “That’s the story,” Arnold said, who has a hold rating on
the stock. “All in, the positive that they have is some pricing
gains and savings from the Cadbury acquisition that has offset
commodities increases.”  Excluding currency and other items, Kraft’s developing
markets business increased sales 7.6 percent to $4.24 billion.
Currency movements lowered sales in the unit to $3.89 billion
from $4.04 billion.  The division, which sells products including Oreo cookies
and Newtons snacks in overseas developing markets, will be the
core of Mondelez International Inc. when Kraft splits on Oct. 1.  Kraft’s North American business lifted sales by 1.2 percent
to $6.39 billion. That business will be the core of the new
Kraft Foods Group Inc., which will begin trading under the
ticker symbol KRFT on Oct. 2 of this year.  The shares rose as much 1.7 percent to $39.60 in extended
trading, after closing down 1.1 percent to $38.94 in  New York .
They’ve gained 4.2 percent this year through the close of
regular trading today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  