-- NAB Loses Bid for Disclosure of Shareholders in Subprime Suit
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-02T07:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/nab-loses-bid-for-disclosure-of-shareholders-in-subprime-suit.html
National Australia Bank Ltd., whose
shareholders are seeking A$450 million ($472 million) of damages
over its exposure to U.S. subprime debt, lost a bid to have the
identities of the group members disclosed.  A three-judge panel of the  Supreme Court  of Victoria in
 Melbourne  today dismissed the bank’s appeal of a lower judge’s
decision denying its request that 20 of the biggest shareholders
involved in the lawsuit be identified.  “The group members (in this case, the market participants)
usually play a passive role and discovery orders are not made
against them,” Justice  Kevin Bell  wrote on behalf of the panel.
“It was open to his honour to decide that the bank had not
established sufficient grounds for departing from the usual
course.”  The shareholders sued in November 2010 to recoup money they
claim was lost as the bank’s stock declined because of its
investments in U.S. subprime debt in 2008. National Australia
Bank failed to disclose the risk of losses from subprime
mortgages,  Andrew Watson , an attorney at Maurice Blackburn
Lawyers who represents the shareholders, said when the lawsuit
was filed.  Watson said today disclosing the shareholders’ names would
complicate the process, which a class-action lawsuit is intended
to streamline. In a class-action suit, one plaintiff represents
the group and common issues are identified. The representative
plaintiff can be questioned by the defendant before a trial in
what is known as discovery.  Lose Benefits  “Instead of discovery for one person, you might have
discovery for 30” if the identities were disclosed, Watson said
in a phone interview. “You would lose all the benefits of a
class action.”  The trial is scheduled to begin in December.  Sharna Rhys-Jones, a spokeswoman for National Australia
Bank, said it would defend the claim.  Shares of the bank fell 36 percent from July 24, 2008, to
Sept. 18, 2008, after the Melbourne-based lender boosted
provisions for its exposure to U.S. subprime mortgages to A$1
billion from A$181 million in early May of that year. The bank
held A$1.2 billion of collateralized debt obligations,
structured debt securities that are backed by bonds or loans.  The U.S. subprime-mortgage market collapsed in 2007,
triggering a global financial crisis.  About 250 shareholders, including institutions, signed up
for the lawsuit.  The case is Between Pathway Investments Ltd. and  National
Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  SCL2010-6249. Supreme Court of Victoria
(Melbourne).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  