-- Narco Tunnels of Border Town Nogales Show Sinaloa Cartel’s Power
-- B y   A d a m   H i g g o n b o t t o m
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/narco-tunnels-of-border-town-nogales-show-sinaloa-cartel-s-power.html
If everyone had kept quiet, it could
have been the most valuable parking spot on earth. Convenient
only to the careworn clothing stores clustered in the southern
end of downtown Nogales, Arizona, it offered little to shoppers,
and mile-long Union Pacific trains sometimes cut it off from
much of the city for 20 minutes at a time.  Yet the location was perfect: In the middle of the short
stretch of East International Street, overshadowed by the blank
walls of quiet commercial property, the space was less than 50
feet from the international border with  Mexico .  On Aug. 16, 2011, just before 3:30 p.m., three men sat in a
white Chevrolet box truck parked near the Food City supermarket
on Grand Court Plaza, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Aug.
6 issue. In the driver’s seat was Anthony Maytorena; at 19,
Maytorena already had an impressive criminal record, and a metal
brace on one arm as a result of being shot while fleeing from
local police three years earlier.  Locked in the cargo compartment behind him were two boys
from Nogales, Sonora, the Arizona town’s twin city on the other
side of the border -- Jorge Vargas-Ruiz, 18, and another so
young that his name hasn’t been released. Together they drove
over to International Street, where two cars were holding the
parking spot for them.  Truck Trapdoor  Maytorena parked the truck, climbed out, and -- watched by
a spotter gazing down from high up in the hills on the Sonoran
side of the border -- sauntered around the corner. Inside, the
two teenagers lifted a hatch in the floor of the cargo
compartment; beneath, in the steel box that had once contained
the truck’s refrigeration unit, was a trapdoor that opened less
than a foot above the street.  On a word from the spotter, men underground lowered a
camouflaged circular plug of concrete held in place by a
hydraulic jack, revealing a hole just 10 inches in diameter. The
hole opened into a tunnel 3 feet square and 90 feet long,
leading to a room in an abandoned hotel on the Mexican side of
the border.  It took less than 40 minutes to transfer 207 tightly
wrapped bundles of marijuana from the San Enrique hotel to the
back of the truck: more than 2,600 pounds in all, conservatively
valued at just over $1 million.  U.S. Border Patrol  agents and officers of the Nogales
Police Department rode slowly past the truck while the transfer
took place. None of them noticed anything unusual. Customs
officers manning the pedestrian border crossing at the end of
the street continued their work as normal.  Sealed Shut  With the cylindrical plug jacked back into place, the boys
in the back of the truck used a caulking gun to close the seam
around it with concrete sealant. Once again, the tunnel entrance
in the parking space was invisible. As the truck pulled away at
a little before 4:30 p.m., it had begun to rain. Behind the
wheel, Maytorena almost certainly believed the tunnel operation
had been yet another audacious success.  Crime has been coming up out of the ground in Nogales for a
while now. Since 1995 more than 90 illicit underground
passageways have been discovered in various states of completion
in the two-mile stretch of urban frontier that separates
 Arizona ’s Nogales from its far larger twin in Sonora.  Twenty-two complete tunnels have been found in the past
three years alone. Streets have opened up beneath unwary
pedestrians and subsided under heavy vehicles; the city has
become infamous as the Tunnel Capital of the Southwest.  Significant Investment  Although quantification is impossible, the underground
shipment routes represent a significant economic investment, one
that far exceeds the time and money spent on the homemade
submarines, ultra-light aircraft, and catapults used to move
narcotics elsewhere.  Some tunnels cost at least $1 million to build and require
architects, engineers, and teams of miners to work for months at
a stretch. A few include spectacular feats of engineering,
running as much as 100 feet deep, with electric rail systems,
elevators, and hydraulic doors. Yet the economies of scale are
extraordinary. Tunnels like these can be used to move several
tons of narcotics in a single night.  The tunneling boom reflects not only the extent and
financial torque of the Mexican cartels’ operations -- estimated
in a 2010 Rand Corp. report to turn a $6.6 billion profit every
year -- yet also the futile nature of attempts to secure the
U.S. border against drug smugglers.  Price Goes Up  A reliable index of the effectiveness of U.S. interdiction
work, says Anthony Coulson, a former  Drug Enforcement
Administration  agent, is provided by the price of narcotics on
U.S. streets; when the authorities succeed in impeding the flow
of drugs, the price goes up.  Coulson began his career in Tucson in the early ’80s and
retired as the head of the agency’s Southern Arizona district in
2010. In Nogales, Arizona, the wholesale price for marijuana is
currently $400 a pound.  “That’s never changed,” Coulson says, “in 30 years.”  In March, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
responded by organizing a Nogales Tunnel Task Force, headed by
agents from its Homeland Security Investigations division (HSI),
and incorporating members of the DEA, Border Patrol, and the
local police department.  In early June, President  Barack Obama  signed into law the
Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2012, introduced by California
Democrat  Dianne Feinstein , chairman of the bipartisan Senate
Caucus on International Narcotics Control.  Extending Wiretapping  The law extends the use of wiretapping to tunnel
investigations, criminalizes the intent to tunnel, and doubles
the sentences for traffickers who use tunnels to move narcotics.
It’s the House’s second recent attempt to legislate against the
persistence and ingenuity of the tunnel barons of the Sinaloa
cartel.  On a searing afternoon in late June, Border Patrol agent
Kevin Hecht guides his rumbling Dodge pickup along the incline
of West International Street and picks out the highlights of the
tunnelers’ work.  The blue house at number 438, where smugglers came up under
the front porch and bundled the loads directly into a car parked
outside; and the apartment building at 530, so popular that two
tunnels intersected underground there, five years apart.  “One was real fancy -- all wood-lined, lighting,
ventilation, power outlets. All hand-dug,” Hecht says. At the
corner of West Street, he points down to asphalt quilted with
squares of fresh concrete, where tunnels beneath the road have
been located and filled in all the way to the border.  Hot Spots  “There are some hot spots they like,” he says. “They just
won’t leave them alone.” The city’s repair crews have inscribed
each patch with a date, so Hecht can keep track of when each
tunnel was finally sealed. “There’s so many of them here, I
can’t remember every little square,” he says. “I’m getting old.”  At 42, Hecht is a big man, 6 feet tall and 230 pounds, with
thinning black hair sticking straight up from his scalp like
stalks in a burned cornfield. Raised in  Chicago , he has 17 years
in the  Border Patrol , all of it in Nogales and much of it
underground.  “He’s the tunnel guru,” says Jack Zappone, one of Hecht’s
former colleagues, now an HSI agent with the Tunnel Task Force.
“Just about every tunnel that’s ever been found in Nogales, he’s
been inside of it or crawled through. And he knows the drainage
system like the back of his hand.”  Geography, Geology  Hecht’s opponents in the tunnel war are drawn to Nogales by
a peculiar alignment of geography and geology, and the shared
infrastructure of a city where once-common interests are now
divided by the drug war.  The two cities grew up around the border crossing, and on
both sides houses and stores now press as close to the line as
the law permits. Nogales, Sonora, sits on high ground, with its
Arizona twin below it, in the narrowest part of a valley forming
the end of a seasonal flood plain.  When the monsoons begin each summer, the rain that falls on
Mexico is funneled downhill, gathering speed and force as it
reaches the U.S. In the 1930s, in an attempt to control the
torrent of water, U.S. engineers converted the natural arroyos
in Nogales into a pair of culverts that now lie beneath two of
the city’s main downtown streets, Morley Avenue and Grand
Avenue.  Beginning in Mexico, and running beneath the border before
emerging a mile into the U.S., the huge tunnels -- large enough
to drive a car through -- created an underground link between
the two cities, and access to a network of subterranean passages
beneath both that has never been fully mapped.  Well Situated  Above ground, Nogales is also well-situated for easy access
to the rest of the U.S.; I-19 begins less than 100 yards from
the border.  According to Coulson, more than a third of all fresh
produce shipped into the country from Mexico now comes through
the city’s huge Mariposa port of entry for commercial vehicles -
- and, packed with it, much of the country’s narcotics.  “Nogales,” Coulson allows, “is a little bit unusual.”  In the 1990s the Grand and Morley tunnels were transformed
into conduits of illegal immigration and drug smuggling. The
Border Patrol installed corrugated steel gates, made from
repurposed military surplus, at the underground border, which
they chained and then welded shut.  During the monsoons, the tunnels -- 30 feet wide and 14
feet deep -- often fill with rushing water, which in the Morley
tunnel generates such pressure that it spews out of the open end
a mile downstream in Arizona with the force of a water cannon.
The summer storms arrive with such sudden ferocity that unwary
migrants were often swept to their deaths, and the solid metal
gates were torn from the walls. And when the monsoons didn’t
open the gates, drug smugglers and human traffickers would.  Welds Broken  “We’d weld the gates shut, and then five minutes after we’d
weld them, they’d break the welds,” says Tom Pittman, who began
his career with the Border Patrol in Nogales a few months after
Hecht in 1995. “Back then there would be hundreds of people
coming through those tunnels, all day, every day.”  When the patrol stationed men at the main exit of the
Grand, where it emerges into an open culvert near the public
library, migrants and smugglers began appearing from the scores
of storm drains and manhole covers across the city -- carrying
their shoes in plastic bags to keep them dry, disappearing into
downtown stores in an effort to mingle with shoppers.  “It was crazy. You would see a sewer plate come up in the
middle of the street, and five people would come up and run,”
says Zappone.  Cocaine Bundles  Drug smugglers pushed bundles of cocaine and marijuana out
through the gratings, or wriggled up the two-foot-wide
corrugated steel tubes that connected the main drainage channels
to concrete catch basins on the city streets, handing off their
loads to accomplices in waiting cars.  Border agents took to entering the tunnels without turning
on their flashlights.  “If they see you coming, they’re just going to run back to
Mexico. You’d get in there and hang out, and wait for the
groups, or the dope, to come to you,” says Pittman.  When orphans and runaways began living in the Grand and the
Morley, the tunnels became so dangerous that border agents would
only go below ground in force. At mealtimes, gangs of tunnel
kids would materialize suddenly from the drainage grates outside
Church’s Chicken on Grand Avenue, terrifying diners into flight,
stealing their food and withdrawing below ground to eat it in
safety; at other times they huffed paint and robbed passing
migrants at knifepoint.  No Protection  Without the protection of a SWAT team, the agents could no
longer even reach underground as far as the border; by the end
of the 1990s, control of this concrete netherworld had slipped
almost entirely from the grasp of the law. Deep inside the
Grand, Hecht swings the beam of his rubber-clad flashlight
across the cement floor, a half mile or so from the border.  “We wouldn’t have been able to get to this point,” he says.
“We would have been shot at.”  Finally, in 2007, the Border Patrol installed a set of
gates with bars designed to allow water to pass through while
keeping people at bay, and the giant drainage tunnels have
become far safer. In the Grand now, three sets of barriers mark
the border: one gate at the line, and two more on either side to
protect it from tampering.  By the amber glow of a single bulb, video cameras and other
sensors Hecht refuses to describe monitor the space; a device to
remotely dispense pepper spray further discourages unwanted
visitors.  Tunnel Rats  For good measure, Hecht’s colleagues have scrawled a
message in green paint on the wall on the northern side of the
line. “USA TUNNEL RATS,” it reads. “ESTE LUGAR ES DE NOSOTROS.”
This place is ours.  The first drug-smuggling tunnel found beneath the border
was discovered in May 1990, 100 miles west of Nogales, in
Douglas, Arizona. It was 270 feet long, with its southern
entrance concealed beneath a pool table at a house in Agua
Prieta, Mexico, the favored cross-border drug transfer point for
“Shorty” Guzman, infamous head of the Sinaloa cartel.  When the spigot of a tap outside the house was turned, the
table rose eight feet into the air on hydraulic rams, revealing
a vaulted, concrete-lined tunnel strung with electric lights and
equipped with a wheeled cart.  The passageway emerged beneath the drainage grate of a
truck-washing station in Douglas, built on land sold to Guzman’s
lawyer by a local judge. Customs agents who examined the tunnel
said that it looked like something out of a James Bond movie.  At the time the existence of the subterranean expressways
of the Morley and the Grand, and the relatively poor security at
the city’s crossing stations, made custom-built tunnels in
Nogales unnecessary. Yet as the Mexican cartels gained strength
in the ’90s, and seizures increased above ground, smugglers
began modifying the city’s drainage system for their own
purposes.  Dug by Hand  In August 1995 customs agents, following a tip, uncovered a
narrow hand-dug tunnel that emerged beneath an abandoned
Methodist church on a bluff 150 yards from the border. Just 40
feet long, it had been dug between the church and a hole cut in
the side of an underground drainage pipe connecting a nearby
rainwater catch basin to the Grand tunnel.  It would have enabled traffickers to enter the U.S. through
the Grand and then climb into the corrugated pipe -- yet rather
than emerging on the street, they could now take a detour to the
basement of the church, where they could deliver their loads
entirely out of sight and undetected.  ‘Gopher Hole’  The tunnel was crude -- “a gopher hole,” one agent called
it -- and investigators believed a cave-in had forced smugglers
to abandon the route before they’d had the chance to use it. Yet
it was an ingenious idea, and not one the cartel was about to
give up on easily.  In 1999 authorities found three more tunnels leading back
to the storm drain system, and in one the ropes and burlap sacks
used to haul narcotics in from Mexico. In early 2001, Tom
Pittman helped in the discovery of another hand-dug tunnel,
hidden behind a hinged flap in the wall of another corrugated
24-inch drainage pipe, less than a mile from the border. It led
to a three-bedroom house.  When customs agents kicked in the door, they found what
appeared to be an ordinary, middle-class suburban home.
Scattered with children’s toys, the living room, kitchen, and
two bedrooms looked entirely normal; what they found in the
third bedroom did not: “840 pounds of coke,” Pittman says.
“Stacks of it. All muddy. Dirt and s--- everywhere.” The family
had already left town.  Smuggling Operation  Customs later estimated the value of the cocaine at
$6.5 million. As with many of the tunnels, Pittman says it’s
impossible to tell how long the smuggling operation had been
running. “Probably quite some time, unfortunately,” he says.
“Years.”  As border security tightened after Sept. 11, smugglers
began going under the fence in Nogales ever more frequently.  “There’s a direct correlation between tunnels and the
strength of enforcement at the ports of entry,” says Coulson.
“As the ports got stronger in their inspection capabilities,
more tunnels came into play.”  In 2005, Shorty Guzman began a bloody campaign of
assassinations in Nogales, intended to bring the independent
smuggling contractors of the city, many of them families whose
expertise goes back generations, entirely under his control.  New Tunnels  Since then new tunnels have been discovered in the Border
Patrol’s Tucson sector at a rate of one a month -- almost every
one of them in Nogales.  The new gates in the drainage system mean that an
increasing number of these are hand-dug for their entire length,
directly connecting Sonora with Arizona. While some are
sophisticated, many are rough, dirt-walled passageways, made
using only picks, shovels, and hammer drills.  According to one HSI case agent who asked not to be named,
citing security concerns, the excavation is often done by men
from the massive  copper mine  in Cananea, two hours’ drive to the
southeast in Mexico; power for tools and ventilation is provided
by electricians who tap into the supplies of businesses
operating overhead.  Pittman and Hecht began navigating the hand-dug tunnels
together in 2006. It’s now part of the Border Patrol’s regular
duties to make sweeps of the Morley and the Grand, and a quarter
of the 700-strong force of the Patrol’s Nogales station have the
confined-space training necessary to enter the drainage system.
The number of them prepared to enter the precarious and
claustrophobic dirt tunnels is far smaller.  “A best guess, maybe 10 are willing to do it,” Hecht says.
“You can’t force them.”  Belly Crawling  None of the tunnels Hecht and Pittman have explored have
ever been large enough to allow them to stand upright, and most
require belly crawling; many are so narrow Pittman can only
navigate them by stretching his arms out in front of him and
pushing with his toes. Both agents fear being trapped by a
collapse. While some of the tunnels are shored up with props,
many aren’t.  “I still get scared going in, every time,” Pittman says.  Below ground, the air is thick, humid, and often
dangerously low on oxygen. The agents look for signs of cracking
or the small piles of dirt that can presage a cave-in.  Before entering a newly discovered tunnel, Hecht closes off
any roads that may pass overhead, and brings in a truck carrying
a ventilation system to blow in air. Inside, there is usually no
room for the agents to wear a gun belt or flak jacket; they
carry flashlights; one holds a pistol.  Fear of Gunfire  The single thing Hecht says he never wants to see in a
tunnel is someone else coming toward him with a gun. With no
space to turn around, and potentially trapped from behind by his
partner, he knows that such an encounter would almost certainly
be fatal.  “The only thing you can really do is hope you’re the one
who shoots first,” Pittman says, “and hope the concussion from
the shot doesn’t collapse the tunnel.”  The closest Hecht and Pittman have come to meeting their
adversaries face-to-face underground are the times when,
approaching the end of a tunnel, they’ve caught a whiff of
cigarette or marijuana smoke, deliberately blown into the
southern end by someone -- at most, 10 feet away -- as a
warning. When that happened to Hecht, he stopped dead where he
was.  “I smelled it and went, ‘I’m out,’” he says.  Homemade Picks  Usually all the agents find in the tunnels are homemade
picks, the pieces of string and tape measures used for
navigation, and gallon jugs filled with fermenting urine. The
men themselves are almost always long gone, vanished back into
Mexico.  In the 17 years since tunnels were first found in Nogales,
only one of the senior cartel figures behind them has ever been
brought to justice.  In 2003, Shorty Guzman’s senior lieutenant Rigoberto
Gaxiola Medina, also known as Don Rigo, was arrested in a joint
operation with Mexican authorities after wiretaps proved he’d
ordered construction of a 985-foot tunnel beneath Nogales
equipped with a rail system to move narcotics. In 2008 a Mexican
judge sentenced him to 11 years in prison.  According to Coulson, who oversaw the sting from the U.S.
side, subsequent work has been hampered by the competing demands
of the Border Patrol, which wants to close down any tunnel found
as soon as possible, and ICE and DEA, which need to keep them
open long enough to gather the evidence for trials.  “We need to get away from the interdiction agencies calling
the shots,” Coulson says, “and get the investigative agencies
making determinations on when a tunnel should be closed or not.”  Small-Town Troublemakers  The tunnel conspirators federal agents catch are usually
the expendable ones, small-town troublemakers like Anthony
Maytorena. HSI agents had received a call from an informant
before he’d even reached the parking space on East International
Street.  He was arrested as he attempted to deliver his load; the
boys locked in the back were caught as they tried to escape.
Maytorena told federal agents he had acted as driver in exchange
for $500 in cash and the canceling of a $1,000 debt he owed the
cartel after losing part of a previous shipment.  In February, having pleaded guilty to conspiracy with
intent to distribute marijuana in a U.S. district court in
Arizona, he was sentenced to five years in prison. Whoever
excavated the 90-foot tunnel, and whoever paid them to do it,
remain at large.  Attacking Network  The equivalent of plainclothes police detectives to the
beat cops of Border Patrol, the HSI agents in Nogales are now
trying to dismantle the network that supports and finances the
tunnels. Even with the provisions of the Tunnel Prevention Act
and the creation of the Tunnels Task Force, this won’t be easy.  The head of the unit is ICE assistant special agent in
charge  Kevin Kelly  -- a 20-year customs veteran who keeps a pair
of handcuffs in the cup-holder of his car, next to a bottle of
Purell and his BlackBerry. Kelly says almost all the tunnels now
found in Nogales are linked to the Sinaloa cartel.  Responsibility for the passageways and the territory under
which they’re built is subdivided among cartel lieutenants. Many
tunnels are franchises run by owner-operators who charge some
smugglers for each shipment they move. The HSI agents believe a
handful of individual cartel cells are dedicated to tunnel
construction in the city and responsible for every one of the
illegal passageways built beneath Nogales over the years.  Multiple Projects  Under the control of longtime Guzman associate Felipe de
Jesus Casinales Soza, also known as Gigio, each of these groups
works on two or three projects at a time, expecting that federal
tunnel rats will shut down every new route sooner or later.  Investigators back in 1990 estimated Shorty Guzman’s James
Bond tunnel cost more than $1.5 million to construct, and may
have been in use for six months or even longer, moving so much
cocaine that Guzman earned the new nickname “El Rapido” from his
awestruck Colombian partners.  Kelly says the short, crude tunnels beneath Nogales,
costing as little as $30,000 each to build, represent a
relatively small investment for a quick return. “Most of the
time the tunnels in Nogales are short-lived,” he says. “People
talk.”  Coulson isn’t so sure. His years working beneath Nogales
make him think there were always more tunnels than his agents
could ever discover, and that one in particular has been open
for longer than most federal agents would like to imagine.  “We’ve always guessed that they’ve drilled through the rock up
on the hill on the east side of Nogales,'' Coulson says. ``We’d
heard about a tunnel there, but could never find it. I think
there’s a tunnel on that side, and it’s been in operation
 for a long time. Ten years, easily.”  Knock and Talk  One Tuesday morning in June, a dozen of Kelly’s agents
clamber into three unmarked SUVs to conduct what he calls “knock
and talks” in the streets of the city: banging on doors at
suspect addresses, asking politely to search the premises for
signs of tunneling.  The agents, with holstered guns, walkie-talkies, and
wearing flak jackets, can’t find anyone at the first house, and
run the plates of a car that takes a slow drive by as they bang
on the door; the second is a cramped brick home a mile from the
border, where a woman who lives with eight children says she
often hears strange noises at night from the vacant house next
door; in the third, a business with easy access to the drainage
system, an employee suggests he might be able to help, just as
long as his colleagues aren’t around. There’s no sign of a
tunnel in any of them.  Afterwards, Zappone, a supervisor on the day’s operation,
explains that all three addresses are still worthy of further
investigation. There’s no hurry; they’ll be back.  “Holes don’t move,” he says.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  