-- Nifty-Index Futures Swing Between Gain, Loss on ECB
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-08-02T10:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/nifty-index-futures-swing-between-gain-loss-on-ecb.html
Indian stocks declined for the first
time in five days as investors await a policy announcement by
the European Central Bank after the Federal Reserve refrained
from adding stimulus to the U.S. economy.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, dropped,
ending a four-day rally.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) , the
biggest copper and zinc maker, retreated 1.3 percent. The BSE
India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  lost 0.2 percent to 17,223.84, according
to preliminary closing prices at 3:30 p.m. in Mumbai.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  held off on increasing record
stimulus even as economic growth slowed. The ECB is due to make
a policy announcement today, with President  Mario Draghi  vowing
policy makers will do whatever is needed to preserve the euro.
The Sensex has risen 11 percent since Jan. 1, fueled by $10.5
billion of stock purchases by foreign  funds . The flows are the
highest in Asia this year and a record for the period.  “Investors are focused on the ECB meeting, the outcome of
which will decide if the risk-on trade will last or not,” D.K. Aggarwal, chairman of SMC Investments & Advisors Ltd., which has
about $100 million in assets, said from New Delhi.  Most investors in  Asia , the Americas and Europe expect the
ECB will engage in sovereign-bond purchases in support of Spain
and Italy, Goldman Sachs Group said in a note yesterday, citing
a survey of 410 people. Draghi is trying to win consensus across
governments and central banks for a plan to boost the region’s
bond market that could be announced today after he chairs the
ECB’s Governing Council meeting.  The EU accounted for 17.2 percent of India’s exports in the
six months ended September 2011, commerce ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  