-- Nike Planning Soccer Ball Radar Device in Digital Push
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-08-02T14:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/nike-planning-soccer-ball-radar-device-in-digital-push.html
Nike Inc. (NKE)  has released shoes and
wristbands this year that allow athletes to track their
performance. Now it’s planning to put sensors on soccer balls
and other equipment to offer data to players of team sports.  The world’s largest sporting-goods maker this week obtained
a patent for an invention dubbed Nike+TM that uses a
computerized radar system with transmitters placed on a ball and
players to evaluate individual statistics such as the strength
of a shot in soccer and how well a team plays together.  Nike, based in Beaverton,  Oregon , has been pushing into
digital gadgetry as more people turn to mobile applications to
enhance daily activities. The company released the FuelBand, a
bracelet that tracks daily activity in January, followed a month
later by shoes equipped with sensors that can record such
metrics as how high a player jumps during a dunk.  Nike didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  These offerings are part of the company’s Nike+ brand that
began in 2006 with a running shoe that used a sensor to record
data to Apple Inc.’s iPod.  Nike is using its digital strategy to increase the amount
of time consumers spend with its brand. With the FuelBand, users
can download data to a smartphone application. They can then
compare results with friends who also have the bracelet and
share them on  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s social network.  The new system could eventually work with several sports
including football, baseball and hockey and serve as a way for
coaches to evaluate players, according to a copy of the patent
posted on the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office website. In one
scenario, it could track two soccer players at the same time
with sensors on their shoes as well as the ball to measure how
well they pass to each other.  Nike fell 0.9 percent to $92.20 at 9:48 a.m. in  New York .
The shares had declined 3.5 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  