-- To End Inequality, Attack Poverty, Not the 1 Percent
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-08-02T22:34:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/to-end-inequality-attack-poverty-not-the-1-percent.html
In June, I wrote in praise of Luigi Zingales’s book, “A Capitalism for the People.” At that time,
I examined his call for elevating pro-market values over pro-
business values.  Now I would like to return to the  book , to analyze his
discussion of an issue very much at the heart of the current
electoral season -- economic inequality -- and to explain why
the way Americans talk about the problem leads us in the wrong
direction.  As Zingales points out, income stratification isn’t driven
by those at the far right end of the curve. If you plot the
distribution of income and cut off the 1 percent with the
highest incomes -- if we assume that they don’t exist -- the
curve doesn’t really change. (Try it, or  look here .)  The bunching is below the median. If  income inequality  is a
problem, that is where the problem exists -- not in the few that
lie on the far right tail, but in the many who lie on the far
left tail. Although the Gini index of income inequality has
increased  only slightly  during the past decade, the rate of
poverty has risen steadily, now standing at over  15 percent . In
short, the moral dilemma of inequality arises not because some
tiny number of people are too rich, but because some large
number of people are too poor.  Poverty Politics  I was raised to the old-fashioned sort of liberalism that
put the poor at the heart of politics. Nowadays, neither major
political party talks much about poverty; it is difficult to
find programmatic evidence that either party actually cares. As
Peter Edelman puts it in his provocative new book  “So Rich, So
Poor,”  “it is also not clear whether the aims of ‘the 99%’
actually include the whole 99 percent.”  Republicans have rarely paid much attention to the issue,
and Democratic Party consultants tutor their candidates not to
discuss poverty because “programs for the poor are poor
programs” -- meaning the electoral market won’t pay for them
with votes.  Money is relatively meaningless except in relation to what
it can purchase. Thus, one way to understand poverty is that the
poor can buy less than others. The  Supplemental Nutritional
Assistance Program  (formerly known as  food stamps ) tries to
alleviate income-based differences in what food can be
purchased. Medicaid and, to some extent, the Affordable Care Act
try to do the same with health care. (I have long believed that
we should attempt to equalize buying power more directly by
simply transferring cash to the poor, but such proposals tend to
run afoul of worries about moral hazard, along with fears that
the poor will misspend or that the bureaucratic bucket is  too
leaky .)  But such measures, Zingales writes, are Band-Aids. In order
to repair the problem we have to know what causes it. Zingales
reminds us that the principal driver of income inequality
remains education. The more educated you are, the  higher your
earnings  are likely to be.  Zingales -- a professor at the University of Chicago’s
Booth School of Business and a frequent Bloomberg View
 contributor  -- is in many ways a fan of the American educational
system. He thinks it possesses virtues not captured in the
comparative international testing that so enthralls the news
media. For example, American students are more likely than those
elsewhere in the world to challenge their teachers, and to
question authority generally -- qualities that are useful not
only for democratic governance but also for the spirit of
entrepreneurship and innovation.  School Choice  Although there is much debate over the reasons, our
educational system leaves plenty of children behind. Here, as
with other topics in the book, the principal solution for
Zingales is competition, such as vouchers that would force
public schools to persuade parents to send their children there
and an easing of tenure for teachers, to simplify the dismissal
of those who perform poorly.  Such sentiments are often dismissed on the left as
demonizing teachers. This is unfortunate, and even silly -- a
bit like saying that if you think a smaller, nimbler military is
better suited to the demands of the new century you are
demonizing soldiers. One needn’t be a critic of public employees
or their unions to recognize that they aren’t the reason
government exists.  On the other hand, the claim that public education will be
improved by competition is somewhat weakly anchored. Vouchers
have long been understood to help the  best students , but there
remains considerable debate over their efficacy in helping the
worst. One can admit all the troubles Zingales and others list
and yet confess that we don’t really know for sure what will
work to improve education for those who are suffering the most
from the ravages of poverty.  Moreover, the teacher-tenure issue is more complex than
reformers seem to assume. Yes, the usual three years is probably
too short a period in which to earn what amounts to a lifetime
of  job security , and the use of tenure to protect wrongdoers can
become  frightening . On the other hand, there are historical
reasons that tenure policies were adopted -- in particular, a
decided arbitrariness in the treatment of a (heavily female)
workforce by (heavily male) supervisors and school boards.  Perhaps the world today is less arbitrary; perhaps the
costs of tenure in its current form have become too high. But we
shouldn’t pretend that tenure was invented as a nefarious plot
to rip off taxpayers. (Where tenure has been abolished or
significantly limited, demand for public employment has  fallen
sharply .)  Undoing Inequality  This is not to say that school vouchers are a bad idea.
There is a deep and indefensible hypocrisy in the  Democratic
Party ’s stony opposition to programs that would allow poor
parents to make educational choices similar to those often
exercised by the party’s leaders and contributors -- especially
given the party’s claims to believe in the importance of undoing
inequality. Indeed, the best argument for vouchers isn’t results
but equality, that is, helping the poor to afford what the well-
off can buy. After all, parents of means are free to choose
private schools that others would avoid.  The moral quandary posed by income stratification stems not
from the buying power of the rich but from the buying power of
the poor. Once we see that wealth inequality lies in what one is
able to purchase, it follows readily that we cannot seriously
promote equality as long as private elementary and secondary
education remains the preserve of the rich. Among the poor,
demand for private education is high: Whenever voucher programs
are offered, low-income parents drown them in applications.
Anyone who claims to speak for the 99 percent should take this
demand seriously.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
latest novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt
Romney ’s  exploding tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices
and  Asia’s poor ;  Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind
 “you didn’t build that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by
banks ; Richard Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic
fencing ; Mohamed El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the
world; Handel Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about ;
Anthony B. Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block
mortgage writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or  @StepCarter  on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 