-- Obama Expands National Lead Over Romney to 10 Points in Pew Poll
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/obama-expands-national-lead-over-romney-to-10-points-in-pew-poll.html
President Barack Obama has opened a
10-point lead nationally over Republican  Mitt Romney  as voters
increasingly view Romney unfavorably, according to a Pew
Research Center poll released yesterday.  Obama led Romney 51 percent to 41 percent in the  survey  of
1,956 registered voters, which has a margin of error of plus or
minus 3.2 percentage points. It was conducted July 16-26.  Obama’s advantage is narrower in 12 swing states that will
be key to the November election, the survey by the Washington-
based center showed. When only Colorado, Florida, Iowa,
Michigan, Missouri, New Hampshire,  North Carolina , Ohio,
Pennsylvania, Virginia, Nevada and Wisconsin are considered,
Obama’s lead is 48 percent to 44 percent.  Romney’s unfavorable rating rose to 52 percent, from 47
percent in Pew’s previous survey, while Obama’s unfavorable
rating dipped to 45 percent, from 48 percent.  The survey of 2,508 adults, including 1,956 registered
voters, was conducted before Romney completed a trip to the
U.K., Israel and Poland, which was marked by a series of gaffes.  In the sample, 33 percent of respondents identified
themselves as Democrats and 22 percent as Republicans. Among the
registered voters in the poll, 38 percent identified as
Democrats while 25 percent as Republicans, according to Pew.  Negative Ads  Obama’s campaign ran 35,347 television ads during the 14-
day period ending July 16, according to New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG. By comparison, the Romney campaign aired 16,946
spots during that period. More than 97 percent of those ads were
negative, meaning voters saw twice as many campaign-funded
commercials attacking Romney rather than Obama.  Later this month, former President  Bill Clinton  will appear
at an event in New York hosted by Priorities USA Action, a
super-political action committee supporting Obama’s re-election
bid, according to a person familiar with the plans who spoke on
condition of anonymity. Clinton is also scheduled to speak at
the Democratic National Convention next month.  The organization, founded by former White House aides  Bill Burton  and  Sean Sweeney  to counter Republican fundraising
groups, reported raising $6.2 million last month. Priorities
expects to raise and spend $100 million by the Nov. 6 election,
Burton said in an interview last month on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital with  Al Hunt .”  Super-PACs can take in unlimited corporate, union and
individual donations. The super-PACs are barred from making
donations to candidates, and can spend money independently of
the campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  