-- Obama, Romney Test Economic Messages in Swing States
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-03T00:49:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/obama-romney-put-economic-messages-to-test-in-swing-states.html
With the economy cooling and
unemployment stuck above 8 percent, President  Barack Obama  and
Republican  Mitt Romney  are battling to set the terms of the
economic debate for swing-state voters.  Romney told a crowd of supporters in Golden, Colorado,
today that Obama failed to fulfill his promise to revive the
 U.S. economy  because his policies are flawed. In  Florida  and in
Virginia, Obama continued a second day of attacks on Romney’s
tax proposal, calling it “trickle-down fairy dust” that would
add to the deficit and favor the wealthy over middle-income
Americans.  Both campaigns were anticipating tomorrow’s release of the
U.S. Labor Department jobs report for July. Payrolls probably
increased by 100,000 after an 80,000 gain in June, according to
the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The jobless rate, which has been above 8 percent for more than
three years, was probably at 8.2 percent for a third month.  “His policies have not worked,” Romney said of Obama as
he addressed a crowd of supporters in Golden, Colorado. “I
understand what it takes to get America working again.”  Obama is pursuing a strategy of pleading for patience on
the economy while putting attention on tax fairness rather than
on jobs and growth.  “They have tried to sell us this trickle-down fairy dust
before,” Obama said at Rollins College in Winter Park. “He’s
asking you to pay more so that people like him can pay less. So
that people like me pay less.”  Tax Debate  Florida, Virginia and Colorado have 51 of the 270 electoral
votes needed to win the presidency. Obama won all three states
in 2008 and both campaigns are targeting them for November.  Florida is the biggest prize among the swing states and is
among the states hardest hit by the recession. Its unemployment
rate of 8.6 percent is tied with  Michigan  for 12th highest in
the nation. It ranks 30th for the first quarter in the Bloomberg
Economic Evaluation of States, which combines data on tax
collections, personal income, unemployment,  home prices ,
mortgage foreclosures and stock performance of companies located
in a state.  While Colorado’s jobless rate was 8.2 percent in June, the
state was eighth on the BEES index for improving economic health
from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of this
year. Virginia, with a heavy concentration of government offices
and contractors, had an unemployment rate of 5.7 percent in
June.  Obama Ad  The Obama campaign released its latest ad today, targeting
Romney’s finances and his tax proposal. Running in swing states
including Florida, Virginia and Colorado, the ad cites a study
by the independent  Tax Policy Center  that concluded Romney’s
plan would shift more of the tax burden to those making less
than $200,000 a year. Obama also cited the study in his remarks.  “Chances are” most Americans pay a higher  tax rate  than
Romney, who earned $21.6 million in 2010 and paid a 14 percent
effective tax rate, it says. “He pays less, you pay more,” the
narrator says.  “President Obama appears to be mounting a two-pronged ‘it
could be worse’ strategy,”  David Primo , a political science
professor at the University of Rochester in New York, said in an
e-mail. “This is a far cry from his 2008 message of ‘hope’ and
‘yes, we can,’ and reflects the reality that most voters do not
believe the economy is headed in the right direction.”  Promises on Economy  In Colorado, Romney said Obama has failed on every promise
he made in 2008 on unemployment, the housing market, family
income and cutting the deficit.  He held up a “report card” designed by his campaign that
contrasts his record as Massachusetts governor with that of
Obama as president. Referring to economic indicators on the
report card, Romney said he would “get all those arrows green
again” if he is elected.  Obama has an edge over Romney in national polls. He led the
challenger 51 percent to 41 percent in a July 16-26 poll of
registered voters conducted by the Pew Research Center in
 Washington . The survey has an error margin of plus or minus 3.2
percentage points.  He also leads in some key swing states. A Quinnipiac
University/New York Times/CBS News poll in Ohio and Florida
showed Obama with a 6-percentage-point advantage in each of the
two states and 11 points in  Pennsylvania .  Making Profits  The poll found that a torrent of  television advertising 
appears to be resonating in Obama’s quest to define Romney
before many voters are very familiar with him. The polls found
that more likely voters say Romney’s career was too focused on
making profits at Boston-based Bain Capital LLC, rather than the
kind of experience that would help create jobs.  Both men are ultimately talking to just a small fraction of
the population, the polling found. Just 4 percent of voters in
the battleground states surveyed say they’re undecided, and only
about one in 10 who have picked a candidate say they might
change their minds.  Romney was making his first domestic campaign appearance
since returning from a trip to the U.K., Israel and Poland that
was marked by a series of gaffes. His aides have argued that any
minor stumbles on the trip will quickly be forgotten by voters
mostly concerned about the U.S. economy.  Closely Watched  Both campaigns are entering one of the most closely watched
periods of the election season. Romney this month will name his
vice presidential running mate and will be formally nominated at
the  Republican National Convention  in Tampa.  Romney, 65, today also is appearing with a group of
Republican governors near Aspen, Colorado. Among those joining
Romney are New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , Louisiana
Governor  Bobby Jindal , South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley,
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  and Virginia Governor  Bob McDonnell .  This evening, he is attending a fundraiser in Aspen being
held in conjunction with a gathering of the  Republican Governors
Association  that is attracting some of the party’s top
strategists and politicians.  Obama, who was the first Democrat to carry Virginia since
1964, ended the day there, marking his 38th visit to the state
since taking office, according to his campaign. This year alone
he has held 10 political events in the commonwealth.  “Nobody is satisfied with our pace of growth,” Obama told
an evening rally at Loudoun County High School in Leesburg,
Virginia. “But if you look at our history, if you look at our
facts, every time we’ve grown it hasn’t been by the top down,
it’s been from the middle out, it’s been from the bottom up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Leesburg, Virginia at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  