-- OCBC Profit Climbs 12%, Beats Estimates on Interest Income
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-08-02T00:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ocbc-profit-climbs-12-beats-estimates-on-interest-income-1-.html
Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) ,
Southeast Asia’s second-largest bank, posted a third consecutive
quarter of increased profit, beating analyst estimates on gains
in income from lending.  Net income for the second quarter rose 12 percent to S$648
million ($519 million) from S$577 million a year earlier, the
Singapore-based lender said in a statement to the stock exchange
today. That beat the S$609.5 million  average  of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The result adds to evidence that Asian banks are
withstanding the  European debt crisis , with Japan’s three
megabanks this week posting profit that beat analysts’
estimates. OCBC increased lending volume in the quarter as
profitability from loans declined.  “The numbers look reasonably good and have come in
stronger than I had anticipated,” said  Matthew Smith , an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities  Singapore  Pte. “The
gains in interest income were basically driven by loan volumes
rather than margins, which saw a compression.” Yields on
mortgage lending and trade finance have fallen, he said.  Net interest income, the difference between what OCBC makes
from lending and what it pays on deposits, climbed 13 percent to
S$931 million. Gains from fees and commissions as well as
trading revenue also propelled earnings in the quarter, the bank
said.  The net interest margin, a measure of lending
profitability, narrowed to 1.77 percent from 1.87 percent a year
earlier.  Higher Fees  OCBC’s non-interest income rose 2 percent on higher fees
and trading income, the bank said. Great  Eastern Holdings Ltd. (EH) ,
in which OCBC holds 87 percent, according to its 2011 annual
report, yesterday said second-quarter profit declined 31 percent
to S$81.4 million on weak  investment performance  from
unfavorable market conditions.  “While the economic environment remains uncertain, we will
continue to grow our customer franchise across all key markets
with our strong capital and liquidity base,” OCBC Chief
Executive Officer Samuel Tsien said in the statement.  Loan growth in Singapore,  Hong Kong  and Malaysia will
probably slow this year as economic growth cools,  Standard &
Poor’s  analysts led by Ivan Tan wrote in a July 30 report.
Singapore and Hong Kong are “particularly exposed to spillover
effects” of economic conditions in their trading partners, they
said.  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. led earnings at Japanese banks
that exceeded analysts’ estimates last quarter. Mizuho, the
country’s third-biggest bank by market value, almost doubled net
income to 183.9 billion yen ($2.3 billion) in the three months
ended June as higher bond-trading income offset a decline in
lending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  