-- Oil Drops as Draghi Stops Short of Detailing Bond Plan
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-08-02T20:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/oil-drops-as-draghi-stops-short-of-detailing-bond-plan.html
Crude fell in  New York  after European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to give details of a
plan designed to shore up the euro by curbing rising government
borrowing costs in the region.  Futures tumbled 2 percent after Draghi signaled that the
ECB will join forces with governments to buy sovereign bonds in
sufficient quantities to remove all doubts about the future of
the euro. Draghi said last week he would do whatever it takes to
protect the currency, stoking speculation he would outline plans
following a central bank meeting today.  “Draghi said the ECB will do whatever it takes and this
kind of statement created the anticipations for the central bank
to buy bonds,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s
London-based head of commodity markets strategy. “By creating
the expectations and failing to deliver, you obviously get the
market reaction that you have today.”  Oil for September delivery fell $1.78 to settle at $87.13 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have declined
12 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement slipped 6 cents to end
the session at $105.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract settled at a
premium of $18.77 to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate,
the steepest since May.  The 27 members of the European Union accounted for 16
percent of global oil demadn in 2011, according to BP Plc’s
Statistical Review of World Energy, released in June.  Bond Purchases  ECB bond purchases would probably focus on shorter-term
maturities, would be conducted in a way to soothe investors’
concerns about seniority, and wouldn’t breach EU rules
prohibiting the financing of government deficits, Draghi told
reporters in  Frankfurt .  ECB officials are working on the plan and details will be
fleshed out in coming weeks, he said. The central bank earlier
kept the benchmark  interest rate   on hold  at 0.75 percent.  “The euro is irreversible,” Draghi said at the Frankfurt
press conference. The euro-area economy will “recover only very
gradually” and growth momentum will be “further dampened by a
number of factors,” he said.  The euro declined after Draghi’s comments. The 17-nation
currency dropped as much as 0.7 percent against the dollar to
$1.2134. A weaker euro and stronger dollar decrease oil’s appeal
as an investment alternative.  Financial markets and politicians had ratcheted up pressure
on the ECB to act after Draghi pledged last week to save the
euro. Oil climbed 3.6 percent in July, the biggest monthly gain
since February.  Dollar Focus  “The ECB didn’t come out and say what people wanted to
hear,” said Tariq Zahir, a New York-based commodity fund
manager at Tyche Capital Advisors. “The focus is back to the
 U.S. dollar .”  The  Federal Reserve ’s Federal Open Market Committee
yesterday refrained from announcing stimulus measures to boost
economic growth.  “The Fed is not acting and the ECB is not acting either,”
said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We probably have a recession coming
globally but the market didn’t get what it wants from the
central banks, and that’s why we are under pressure.”  A Labor Department report tomorrow may show that the pace
of hiring in July failed to reduce the U.S. jobless rate,
according to economists polled by Bloomberg. Unemployment is
projected to hold at 8.2 percent. A payroll increase of 100,000
workers would follow an 80,000 gain in June, according to the
survey.  Fed Decisions  “For oil, as a risky asset, the more important central
bank decisions are those that the Fed is going to take, and
these are clearly going to be hinging on the direction of the
payroll report tomorrow,” Tchilinguirian said.  Oil also fell as orders placed with U.S. factories
unexpectedly declined in June. Bookings decreased 0.5 percent,
the Commerce Department said today in  Washington . The median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.5
percent gain.  The U.S. was the biggest crude-consuming country last year,
responsible for 21 percent of global demand, the BP statistical
review showed.  U.S.  oil demand  averaged over four weeks slipped 0.6
percent in the period through July 27 to 18.8 million barrels a
day, the Energy Department reported yesterday. U.S. fuel
consumption is forecast to drop 0.8 percent this year to 18.7
million barrels a day, according to the department’s monthly
 Short-Term Energy Outlook  on July 10.  Jobs Report  Crude prices briefly gained after a Labor Department report
today showed the number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  rose less than forecast last week.  Jobless claims climbed by 8,000 to 365,000 in the week
ended July 28, the department reported. The  median  forecast of
47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an increase to
370,000.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 541,870
contracts as of 4:13 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 540,299
contracts yesterday, 3.5 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  