-- Oil Rises From Three-Week Low on Speculation of More U.S. Jobs
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-08-03T07:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/oil-rebounds-from-lowest-in-three-weeks-before-u-s-jobs-report.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in almost three weeks in  New York  before a report that may show
hiring in the U.S. increased.  Futures rose as much as 0.9 percent, trimming a second
weekly decline. Employers probably added 100,000 workers in July
after an 80,000 gain in June, according to a Bloomberg News 
survey ahead of government data today. Tropical Storm Ernesto may
develop into a Category 1 hurricane by Aug. 6, the U.S. National
Hurricane Center said. Oil fell 2 percent yesterday after the
 European Central Bank  failed to assure investors it was ready to
take immediate steps to support the economy.  “The jobs report will be critical, and if it’s way under
predictions, it’s going to be a clear trend that the U.S. jobs
market is slowing,” said  Anthony Nunan , a senior adviser for
risk management at  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in Tokyo. New York oil “is
in congestion, in a sideways trading range,” he said.  Oil for September delivery increased as much as 81 cents to
$87.94 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $87.89 at 3:07 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract yesterday fell $1.78 to $87.13, the lowest close since
July 13. Prices are 2.5 percent lower this week and down 11
percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement gained 87 cents, or
0.8 percent, to $106.77 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Brent-WTI Spread  The European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
was at $18.87. It closed yesterday at $18.77, the widest gap
since May 16.  “The spread reflects strength in the Brent market, not the
weakness in WTI. Brent is being supported by geopolitical
factors and also the fact that worldwide refinery runs should
increase as we go through the fourth quarter,” Nunan said. “I
expect the Brent-WTI spread to remain wide.”  Crude shipments from  Iran , the third-largest producer in
the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, have
plunged by 1.2 million barrels a day, or 52 percent, since the
latest sanctions aimed at dissuading the country’s nuclear
program began July 1, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Catherine Ashton , the European Union foreign-policy chief,
spoke with Iran’s top nuclear negotiator and failed to set a
specific date for the next round of talks aimed at pressuring
the country to give up elements of its nuclear program. The two
officials agreed to talk again “after further reflection at the
end of the month,” according to an e-mailed statement yesterday
from Ashton’s office.  Tropical Storm  Oil in New York has technical resistance around $90 a
barrel, along a downward-sloping trend line on the daily chart
going back three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Price advances the past two weeks have stalled near
this line. Sell orders tend to be clustered near chart-
resistance levels.  “Near term, market attention will next shift to the last
of the week’s event risks, namely U.S. non-farm payrolls,”  Mark Pervan , the head of commodity research at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  in Melbourne, said in a note today.  Ernesto, the fifth named weather system of the Atlantic
season, developed east of the Lesser Antilles, prompting storm
warnings for islands including  Barbados ,  St. Lucia , Martinique
and Guadeloupe. Top winds remained at 50 miles, according to a
hurricane center advisory today. It’s about 35 miles north-
northwest of Barbados and moving west at 23 mph.  Storm Track  It’s too early to say if the storm’s  track  will lead it
into the  Gulf of Mexico . The Gulf is home to 6.5 percent of U.S.
natural gas output, 29 percent of oil production and 40 percent
of refining capacity, according to the Energy Department. In
June, Tropical Storm Debby’s threat to the Gulf pushed New York
natural gas futures to a one-month high as about 35 percent of
the region’s output was shut.  Analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg News were split
over the direction of  oil prices  next week after central banks
failed to bolster stimulus and Tropical Storm Ernesto developed.
Thirteen of 33 forecasters, or 39 percent, estimated crude will
drop through Aug. 10. Another 13 respondents predicted that
futures will increase and seven said there will be little
change.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  