-- Crude Futures Fluctuate as ECB Leaves Interests Rates Unchanged
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-08-02T12:13:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/oil-fluctuates-after-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks-before-ecb-meets.html
Crude futures fluctuated in  New York 
as the  European Central Bank  met to discuss the bloc’s debt
crisis, while U.S. oil stockpiles shrank.  Oil was little changed, paring an earlier increase of 0.7
percent after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low of 0.75 percent. The central bank will hold a press
conference at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt . U.S. crude inventories
slid  the most  since December, Energy Department data showed
yesterday.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  was waiting for approval to resume a
pipeline that carries Canadian oil to the Midwest.  “The ECB will issue strong words, but are unlikely to
announce anything substantial,” said Guy Wolf, a strategist at
Marex Spectron Group Ltd., a London-based commodities broker.
“The central bank meetings are inhibiting trading activity,
which in any case is subdued because of the summer.”  Oil for September delivery was at $88.92 a barrel, 1 cent
higher in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 12:59 p.m. London time. The contract rose 85 cents yesterday,
the biggest gain since July 19. Prices are 10 percent lower this
year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $106.70, up 74
cents, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The
European benchmark’s premium to West Texas Intermediate widened
to $17.82, the biggest spread since May 17.  Crude Stocks  Oil’s rebound yesterday may be unsustainable as New York
futures’ 30-day stochastic oscillators remain above 70,
signaling prices are overbought, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Crude has technical support along the middle
Bollinger Band, at around $86.12 a barrel today. Buy orders tend
to be clustered close to chart-support levels.  U.S. crude inventories  shrank  6.5 million barrels last
week, the biggest drop in more than seven months, data from the
Energy Department showed. They were forecast to drop by 1
million barrels, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Gasoline  supplies dropped  2.2 million barrels last week,
the Energy Department report showed. They were forecast to rise
800,000 barrels, according to the median estimate of 12 analysts
in the Bloomberg News survey.  Enbridge finished repairs on Line 14, which can carry
317,600 barrels a day of Canadian crude to Midwest refiners, and
has submitted a start plan to federal pipeline regulators, the
company said in a  statement  on its website.  The Calgary-based company, which shut the link after an
estimated 1,200 barrels of oil leaked in Wisconsin July 27, must
receive approval for the plan from the U.S. Pipeline and
Hazardous Materials Safety Administration before it can resume
operations. Enbridge must meet 11 other requirements, including
operating the line at reduced pressure, after resuming.  Central Banks  The ECB meeting follows President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge
last week to do “whatever it takes” to keep the euro together.
The Fed yesterday said it would take new policy steps as needed
to promote stronger economic growth and employment, even as it
refrained from a third round of asset purchases, or quantitative
easing.  “Risk markets are going to be very focused on the outcome
of the ECB meeting,” said Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst
at CMC Markets in Sydney. “The Fed did what was expected and
that was make a statement which had a clear bias toward further
easing of monetary policy should it be required.”  London is overtaking New York as the global hub for trading
oil futures as more Brent contracts changed hands in June than
at any time on record, data from ICE show. It was the first full
quarter and third month in which Brent trading surpassed WTI on
the Nymex.  The average daily volume for Brent rose 17 percent in June
to a record 716,752 contracts. Trading in WTI climbed 6 percent
to 599,674 lots.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  