-- Olympic Visitors Shun London Hotels After Congestion Warning
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-02T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/olympic-visitors-shun-london-hotels-after-congestion-warning.html
London hotels, shops, restaurants and
major attractions are losing sales as visitors heed warnings of
overcrowding in the capital from Mayor  Boris Johnson .  “The main problem is that domestic visitors are not
coming,” said  Tom Jenkins , executive director of the European
Tour Operators Association, in a phone interview yesterday. “We
usually expect around 800,000 U.K. visitors on day trips to
London around this time and that is simply not happening.
They’ve listened to the warnings and they are staying away.”  Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Plc (MLC)  posted a 12.5 percent
drop in revenue yesterday from its six London hotels in the
first 24 days of July reflecting a slowdown in visitors. Some
west London theaters have closed while cinemas are showing the
games for free in an effort to entice people away from their
televisions. Clothing retailer  Next Plc (NXT)  said two days ago that
the games have had a negative effect on its sales.  While inner city hotels, restaurants and shops are
suffering, supermarkets and cycle retailers, such as Halfords
Group Plc, as well as airlines are benefiting. Shares in
Halfords rose yesterday by the most since the games began on
July 27. Transport for London, which stressed in a June 2012
 report  the need to avoid the transport chaos seen at the 1996
Atlanta games, said recorded messages from the mayor played on
the subway warning of congestion have now been dropped.  London Eye, Tussauds  “The people who are coming to the  Olympic Games  are not
your normal tourists,” Miles Quest, spokesman for the British
Hospitality Association, said yesterday in a phone interview.
“They don’t appear to be eating, shopping, or staying in
hotels.”  Merlin Entertainments Group Holdings Ltd., operators of
the London Eye and Madame Tussauds, has seen attendances
“significantly” affected by government warnings to stay away
from the capital, said Chief Executive Officer Nick Varney
yesterday in a statement.  The number of visitors to stores in West London fell 10.4
percent from a year earlier on July 27, the day of the Olympics
opening ceremony, and 11.6 percent on July 28, according to
Experian. In East London, where the Olympic stadium is located,
store visits declined 7.2 percent on July 27.  “It’s not that busy at all,” said Jen Spence, a 21 year-
old London resident, as she was leaving  Oxford Circus  two days
ago, one of the city’s busiest shopping districts. “I think
Londoners want to stay away. But it’s worth taking the risk.”  London Taxis  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the games, making 3 million journeys on public transport
in addition to the usual 12 million, according to TfL, the
city’s transportation authority.  TfL said July 31 that roads in central London are carrying
20 percent fewer vehicles. Access to streets is limited during
the Olympics, with 30 miles of Games Lanes restricted to
athletes, officials and the media from 6 a.m. to midnight.  “Drivers are down 70 percent on their earnings,” Dave
Davies, spokesman of Cabbies Against Boris, said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “Summer is usually the best time of the
year but the Olympics is not letting us do business as normal.
This means five weeks of losses.”  While taxi drivers are protesting about lost earnings,
airlines and ticket brokers are benefitting as many Britons
leave the capital. Lastminute.com Ltd., which sells about
750,000 airline tickets a year, has seen a 207 percent increase
in holiday bookings during the Olympic period compared with a
year earlier, while bookings for the rest of the summer are up
66 percent, said Cheryl Jooron, a spokeswoman for the company.  Wiggins, Cavendish  The creation of five outdoor venues where people can watch
the games for free on large screen televisions is also helping
drive food and drink sales at supermarket chains.  Sales at Marks & Spencer Plc’s Stratford store, the
closest M&S outlet to the east London stadiums, rose 280 percent
in the past week in its “grab and go” lunch time range while
sales of burgers and sausages increased 60 percent, said Hazel
Macrae, a spokeswoman for the supermarket chain, in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Sales of bicycles have soared following the success of
Bradley Wiggins,  Mark Cavendish  and other British riders in the
 Tour de France  and the gold medal won by Wiggins in the men’s
43-kilometer time trial course yesterday.  Halfords Group, a U.K. retailer of bicycles and car parts,
said yesterday that sales of Boardman road bikes named after
1992 gold medallist Chris Boardman, are up 12 percent on last
month and demand for its own brand Carrera TdF has risen 18
percent in the past week.  “No doubt many of these consumers have been inspired by
the success of Wiggins and all other racers,” said Paul McClenaghan, Halfords Commercial Director, in a statement
yesterday. “There has definitely been a TdF bounce and we
expect there to be even more interest as a result of the
Olympics.”  -- Editors: Tim Farrand, Mark Gilbert  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in  London  at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  