-- Olympians Would Tumble for Teens of ‘Bring It On’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-08-02T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/olympians-would-tumble-for-teens-of-bring-it-on-review.html
The music for “ Bring It On ” is
better than just about anything you’ll hear on the Olympics
telecasts. The breath-bating athleticism of the 27-member
company is nearly as astonishing as the sleek gymnasts.  On a Broadway stage they flip, fly and land at attention
atop one-another’s upraised palms. They shake booty, bump and
grind, all the while singing their hormone-crazed hearts out.  There are no commercials. The good parts are evenly spread
across two-and-a-quarter hours and the audience takes care of
the commentating with gasps, hoots, appropriately-placed boos
and raucous cheering.  “Bring It On” is an unself-consciously dopey, feel-good
show, based on the 2000  movie  about cheerleaders, a sanitized
pep rally that provides the audience with eye-candy and an
unassailable feel-good message, while paying union wages to a
mixed company of Broadway hoofers and seasoned athletes.  At the center is a white girl who becomes head cheerleader
only to find that redistricting has sent her to spend senior
year in a distinctly non-white high school bereft of
cheerleading talent. (Also, apparently, sports teams to cheer
for.)  Fifteen Minutes  Once there, it takes about 15 minutes for Campbell (the
appealing Taylor Louderman) to win over black top-girl Danielle
(Adrienne Warren, also terrific) and turn her “crew” into a
“squad” that will enable Campbell to go up against her former
cheer-chums in the national competitions.  Lin-Manuel Miranda, of “In the Heights,” co-composed the
music with “Next to Normal’s” Tom Kitt and co-wrote the lyrics
with “High Fidelity’s” Amanda Green. The book is by “Avenue
Q’s” Jeff Whitty. The Ringling-style staging and choreography
are by Andy Blankenbuehler, also of “In the Heights.”  That is a ton of Broadway cred. The songs are instantly
forgettable, but the rhythms do the job, even with a seriously
undernourished pit band.  The set, which appears to have cost about $350, comprises
gym mats, lockers and four big digital screens. This also makes
sense, because when these extraordinary women and men playing
girls and boys start moving, you don’t want anything to get in
their way.  I have no idea how they do what they do eight times a week
and survive. “Bring It On” makes “Spider-Man: Turn Off the
Dark” look like “Romper Room.”  One may moan and squirm about art, but that’s missing the
point. Only fools go to Coney Island to complain about the
rides.  Through Oct. 7 at the St. James Theatre, 246 W. 44th St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  Lance
Esplund  on art.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 