-- Home Vacancies Fall in Cities Hardest-Hit by Foreclosures
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/home-vacancies-fall-in-cities-hardest-hit-by-foreclosures.html
The home-vacancy rate is falling in
U.S. cities such as Las Vegas and Phoenix that were hit hardest
by the housing crisis, a sign the market is recovering,
according to  Trulia Inc.   San Jose, California, led declines among metropolitan
areas, with a 24.1 percent drop in the number of empty homes and
apartments this year through mid-July, according to Trulia, a
real estate information company in  San Francisco . It was
followed by Las Vegas, Denver, the California areas of
Bakersfield and Orange County,  Seattle  and Phoenix.  Falling vacancies, based on an analysis of homes where the
U.S. Postal Service delivered no mail for at least 90 days,
indicate a gain in the number of new occupants, caused by
 population growth  and more household formation, Trulia Chief
Economist Jed Kolko said. The shrinking inventory of available
properties is pushing up rents and purchase prices, he said.  “Vacancy changes are strongly correlated with price
changes,” Kolko said in a telephone interview. “The biggest
vacancy declines are in markets where prices are rising.”  Home prices  rose for a third consecutive month in May in
the 20 U.S. cities tracked by the S&P/Case-Shiller  index ,
according to a July 31 report. Prices rose 2.7 percent in
Phoenix and 1.9 percent in Las Vegas from the previous month.  U.S. apartment rents rose the most in five years in the
second quarter as shrinking vacancies allowed landlords to
charge more, research firm  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said on July 5.  New Households  The U.S. vacancy rate fell to 3.4 percent as of mid-July
from 3.6 percent a year earlier, as the total number of homes
receiving mail increased by 970,000, according to Trulia. The
additional households include about 760,000 new homes and
210,000 formerly vacant homes.  The Census Bureau reported last week that the U.S. home-
vacancy rate fell to the lowest level since 2006 in the second
quarter, while new households formed at an annualized rate of
about 800,000.  Household formation fell to a 100,000 pace in the fourth
quarter of 2008, after the U.S. financial crisis triggered by
the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. A normal rate is
1.2 million new households a year, which would spur demand for
1.6 million new residences, Stephen East, a homebuilding analyst
with International Strategy & Investment Group LLC in Saint
Charles, Missouri, said in a July 27 note.  Shadow Inventory  The shrinking vacancy rate indicates that the so-called
shadow inventory, which includes homes facing foreclosure or
repossessed by banks that aren’t listed for sale, is smaller
than the biggest estimates and less of a threat to a real estate
recovery, Kolko said. The shadow inventory was 5.95 million
homes last month, down from a high of 8.79 million in early
2010, Morgan Stanley said in a July 26 report.  “Inventories are actually dropping partly because homes
are filling up –- not just because people or banks are unable or
unwilling to put homes on the market,” Kolko said. “In fact,
vacancies are better than inventories as a measure of whether
there’s a housing shortage or housing glut.”  The vacancy rate fell to 1 percent in the  San Jose  area,
which includes Silicon Valley, where technology companies have
been hiring and homebuilders face limited land supply and
regulatory challenges that slow development, Kolko said. Job
growth also helped reduce vacancies in Denver; Seattle; Raleigh,
 North Carolina ; and Nashville,  Tennessee , he said.  Las Vegas  In Las Vegas, where the vacancy rate was 5.8 percent, low
rents and reduced purchase prices have enabled more people who
doubled up with relatives to move into their own homes, Kolko
said. Foreclosures in  Nevada  plunged in the past year after the
state passed a law making it a crime to wrongfully seize a
property from a delinquent borrower, allowing more homeowners to
continue occupying their residences.  A diminished inventory of homes  listed for sale  helped
boost  Las Vegas  housing starts by 62 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to Greg Gross, director
of the Nevada region for Metrostudy, a Houston-based firm that
tracks new construction.  “It used to be that you’d see pictures of Las Vegas where
there would be dozens of for-sale signs along neighborhood
streets,” Gross said in a telephone interview. “Now, you don’t
see that anywhere. Now my Realtor friends are saying that before
they get a listing, the house is sold.”  Rust Belt  Detroit , which had the highest vacancy rate in the Trulia
report, at 12.1 percent, has suffered from decades of declining
employment and population, Kolko said. Other “ rust belt 
cities” among the 10 areas with the highest vacancy rates
include Gary,  Indiana , and the Ohio cities of Dayton, Toledo and
Cleveland.  In  Florida , the past decade’s building boom is still
responsible for the high vacancy rate in such cities as West
Palm Beach, Fort Lauderdale and  Melbourne , Kolko said.  While California has one of the highest  foreclosure  rates,
vacancies have been limited, especially in coastal areas,
because the state’s expensive land and development costs made it
harder for builders to increase inventory.  “In San Jose and Orange County, vacancies are low, and
getting lower,” Kolko said. “It’s very hard to find a home and
that’s holding back sales and adding to the lack of
affordability. The difficulty of building houses in Coastal
 California  is big reason why they’re so expensive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in  Boston  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  