-- London Luxury-Home Price Gains Slow After Sale-Tax Increase
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-08-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/london-luxury-home-price-gains-slow-after-sale-tax-increase.html
Luxury-home prices in central London
rose at the slowest rate in 21 months in July as buyers were
deterred by an increase in  sales tax  and the possible
elimination of a loophole for offshore corporations,  Knight
Frank  LLP said.  The average value of a house or apartment in the city’s
most expensive central neighborhoods climbed 0.5 percent from
June, according to an index compiled by the London-based broker.
That reduced the annual increase to 10.3 percent from 10.5
percent in June, a one-year low.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  raised sales tax
for properties valued at more than 2 million pounds ($3.1
million) to 7 percent from 5 percent starting in April. The
government is also considering whether to impose a sales tax as
high as 15 percent on homes bought by offshore companies, which
currently escape the levy.  The possibility of the new charge “is creating uncertainty
and causing some would-be buyers and sellers to adopt a wait-
and-see attitude,”  Liam Bailey , Knight Frank’s head of
residential research, said today in a statement.  Values have risen 49 percent to a record since March 2009,
the low point for London’s prime residential market after the
credit crisis. Overseas investors in particular have used real
estate in central London as a haven from economic, financial and
political upheaval at home, particularly those in the euro
region and the  Middle East .  Price gains may slow further in coming months, said Bailey.
On an annual basis, values in central London have risen at a
slower rate in each of the past eight months. Bailey expects an
increase of 5 percent this year.  Knight Frank compiles its luxury-homes index from its own
appraisal values of a sample of properties in the 13 most
expensive central London neighborhoods, such as Belgravia,
Kensington and Knightsbridge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 