-- London’s West End Denied Olympic Travel Boom as Fans Go East
-- B y   R o x a n a   Z e g a
-- 2012-08-02T11:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/london-s-west-end-denied-olympic-travel-boom-as-fans-head-east.html
London ’s  West End  entertainment and
retail district has missed out on a jump in subway visitors as
the city hosts the 2012 Olympics, with a surge in passenger
trips focused on major games sites further east.  While journeys increased 10.5 percent across the Tube
network on Tuesday, passenger numbers at stations serving the
West End remained at year-ago levels,  Transport for London  said
today in a statement. The east of the city, where the main
stadium and more than half a dozen other venues are located, has
seen a “huge” jump in travel, TfL spokesman Matt Brown said.  As many as 1 million extra visitors are expected each day
during the Olympics, making 3 million daily journeys on public
transport in addition to the usual 12 million. After initially
advising people to rein in travel to ease pressure on road, rail
and subway networks during the games, TfL officials are now
urging them to move about more widely away from the arenas.  “Away from the sporting venues, London has an enormous
array of attractions to offer during the games, so I encourage
everyone to enjoy the theaters, restaurants, shops, free
concerts, Live Sites and attractions,” Peter Hendy, London’s
transport commissioner, said in today’s statement.  Mayor Drops Warning  Messages from London Mayor  Boris Johnson  played on the Tube
and warning of travel congestion during the Olympics have been
dropped, TfL said, adding that the move is unrelated to the
dearth of West End visitors and was initiated after games-goers
and commuters traveled the network on Monday without snags.  “We have always made clear that London is open for business
and we want people to come to London and make the most of all
the Games have to offer,” TfL said. “Our messages across all
channels have always reflected that.”  In addition to the Olympic Park in Stratford, site of the
athletics stadium, velodrome, BMX track, aquatics center, hockey
pitch and basketball, handball and water polo arenas, east
London is also staging events at the ExCeL center, North
Greenwich Arena, Royal Artillery Barracks and in Greenwich Park.  Only Horse Guards Parade and Lord’s Cricket Ground are
close to the main shopping and entertainment district, with
Earls Court, Wimbledon and Wembley stadium located further west.  Roads Closed  TfL said July 31 that roads in central London are carrying
20 percent fewer vehicles. Access to streets is limited during
the Olympics, with 30 miles of  Games Lanes  restricted to
athletes, officials and the media from 6 a.m. to midnight.  On Monday, tube journeys on the Docklands Light Railway,
which serves four Olympic venues in the east, surged 65 percent
to a record, while London Bridge station, from which trains run
to the Olympic complex, equestrian site at Greenwich and City
financial district, had its busiest day of the games, with
50,000 people travelling to Greenwich alone.  Westfield Stratford City, through which the bulk of
visitors must access the Olympic Park, will be closed to people
not headed there between 10:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. tomorrow and
Saturday, the two busiest days at the site, TfL said separately.  More than 200,000 spectators and accredited workers are
expected on each of the days, making the area around  Europe ’s
largest urban shopping center “exceptionally busy,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Zega in London at   rzega@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  