-- Hong Kong Smog Worst in 2 Years as Storm Traps Pollutants
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-08-02T08:03:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/hong-kong-smog-worst-in-2-years-as-storm-traps-air-pollutants.html
Hong Kong  roadside air pollution
reached the  worst levels  in more than two years as a typhoon
that passed through  Taiwan  brought hot weather and trapped
pollutants, prompting a government health warning.  The  Air Pollution Index  was “very high” at the
roadside-monitoring station in Central,  Causeway Bay  and
Mongkok as of 2 p.m. local time, according to the city’s
Environmental Protection Department. The reading in Central
reached the “severe” level earlier at 212, the highest since
March 23, 2010.  Typhoon Saola grounded flights and closed businesses in
Taiwan as winds and rain lashed the island. Hong Kong was
influenced by the outer layer of the storm as the heat and
weak winds resulted in higher ozone levels, trapping the
pollutants in the city, the government said in a  statement  on
its website yesterday.  “The weather conditions only exacerbate the situation,”
Erica Chan, campaign manager at Clean Air Network, said in a
release yesterday. Vehicle exhaust fumes in the city are “the
real root of this problem,” she said.  The levels of fine suspended particulates reported in the
24-hour period from July 31 to Aug. 1 surpassed the  World
Health Organization ’s recommended  Air Quality  Guidelines,
Clean Air Network said.  Heart Illnesses  The Hong Kong government advised people with respiratory
or heart illnesses, the elderly and children to avoid heavy-
traffic streets and reduce physical activities when the
pollution indicator is at the “very high” level.  Hong Kong’s polluted air causes more than 3,000 premature
deaths a year, according to the  Civic Exchange . The research
group said in a statement on Jan. 12 that 49 million doctor
visits “can be attributed to Hong Kong’s persistently poor
air quality” since 2005.  New York , London,  Tokyo  and Singapore all have better air
quality and more ambitious improvement targets, according to
World Health Organization data and the city governments’
websites.  Hong Kong’s average reading of particulate matter with a
diameter of 10 micrometers -- about 1/7th the width of a human
hair -- or less in 2009 was 50 micrograms per cubic meter,
according to a WHO  survey  of 1,100 cities. While that was less
than half Beijing’s, it compares with 29 in Singapore and
 London , 23 in Tokyo and 21 in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  