-- Online Tax, Peregrine, Whitman Founder Trial: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-02T12:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/online-tax-peregrine-whitman-founder-trial-compliance.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and brick-and-mortar
stores urged U.S. senators to pass legislation to let states
collect sales taxes from online retailers based elsewhere, as
other Internet companies said they oppose the measure.  Paul Misener , vice president for global public policy at
Amazon, the largest U.S. online retailer, made remarks favoring
federal legislation before the Senate Commerce Committee.  The legislation would let states impose new and complex tax
burdens for companies that would have to comply with 9,600
jurisdictions, Steve DelBianco, executive director of  NetChoice ,
a group backed by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
said in written testimony for a hearing yesterday.  Amazon has been making tax agreements with states where it
plans to expand its warehouses and shipping centers. Under a
1992 Supreme Court ruling, Web retailers only need to remit
sales taxes to states where they have a physical presence.  Last year, the company said it would spend $500 million on
facilities and add 10,000 full-time jobs in California by
December 2015, ending a fight against a state law that taxes
online sales. It will start remitting the levies in September if
Congress doesn’t act, according to a statement from Governor
 Jerry Brown , a Democrat.  The Senate is considering a bill, S. 1832, introduced by
Michael Enzi, a Wyoming Republican. Enzi told lawmakers the
measure would close a loophole and benefit local businesses that
have to collect sales taxes while online retailers don’t,
according to the Congressional Record.  The National Conference of State Legislatures, the National
Association of Counties and the U.S. Conference of Mayors
support the bill.  Opposition has come from Senator Jim DeMint, a South
Carolina Republican, who wrote in yesterday’s Wall Street
Journal that the legislation would bring about “taxation
without representation,” because states would be able to
“chase revenues far outside their borders.”  A House bill received a hearing July 24 at which Judiciary
Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith , a Texas Republican, said the
Constitution doesn’t allow one state to tax other states’
retailers.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.K. Outlines Plans to Make Financial Products Consumer Friendly  The U.K. government outlined plans to make financial
products more consumer friendly as it seeks to restore public
confidence in the industry after a series of mis-selling
scandals.  A government-appointed panel including former Bank of
England official Carol Sergeant; Angela Knight, the outgoing
chief executive officer of the British Bankers’ Association; and
Otto Thoresen, chief executive of the Association of British
Insurers recommended banks create easy-access savings accounts
and standard 30-day notice periods to close accounts. It also
called for simpler life insurance.  Public trust in the financial-services industry was damaged
by the 2008 credit crisis and a wave of scandals including the
mis-selling of consumer-credit insurance and the rigging of the
Libor market. The panel’s final recommendations will be
published in February.  Japan to Raise Limit on Bank Ownership of Companies, Nikkei Says  Japan’s Financial Services Agency plans to raise the limit
on bank ownership of companies to 10 percent to-20 percent from
5 percent, Nikkei reported, without attribution.  An advisory panel will debate the proposal this year for
legislation next year; implementation is expected by fiscal
2014, according to Nikkei.  SEC Shouldn’t Regulate Credit Ratings, Cato Researchers Say  The U.S. government should stop regulating credit-rating
companies, researchers from the  Cato Institute  said.  Standard & Poor’s,  Moody’s Investors Service (MCO)  and Fitch
Ratings have become a “de facto oligopoly” due to rules that
forced banks and other investors to use their ratings to
determine the riskiness of holdings, according to the  paper ,
published yesterday by the Washington-based public policy
research organization, which says it promotes free markets.  Credit-rating companies should be “subject to competitive
market pressures,” wrote Emily Ekins, a research fellow, and
Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies. “Such
pressures would most effectively be brought to bear by a
reduction in regulatory barriers to entry and the removal of
artificial demand due to various compliance requirements.”  Regulators shouldn’t decide which rating companies are
approved for use and should stop using the ratings themselves in
rules, according to the Cato researchers. That would force the
firms to compete based on quality, they said.  After inflated credit ratings for risky mortgage bonds were
blamed for helping cause the financial crisis, policy makers
have been searching for a way to ensure the grades are accurate.
The Dodd-Frank Act instructed regulators to stop relying on
ratings and increased oversight of the ratings companies.  Compliance Action  FSA Fines Turkish Bank U.K. Unit for Money Laundering Breaches  The U.K. Financial Services Authority fined Turkish Bank
(UK) Ltd. 294,000 pounds ($457,000) for failing to establish
proper controls preventing money laundering.  The company, a subsidiary of Northern Cyprus-based Turkish
Bank Ltd., didn’t have adequate policies to manage its
relationships with other banks, didn’t carry out due diligence
on those banks and failed to keep proper records, the FSA said
in a statement.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  had to apologize and set aside $700
million for fines after U.S. senators found failings in its
money-laundering controls gave terrorists and drug cartels
access to the U.S. financial system.  Turkish Bank would have had to pay 420,000 pounds had it
not cooperated and settled at an early stage, the FSA said. Ufuk
Gungor, assistant general manager at the Borough High Street
branch of Turkish Bank, declined to comment.  Philippines’ SEC Probes Trading of Calata Shares, Herbosa Says  The Philippines  securities regulator  is looking into a
report by the Philippine stock exchange’s market integrity unit
that rules may have been breached in trading of  Calata Corp. (CAL) 
shares, according Securities and Exchange Commission Chairwoman
Teresita Herbosa.  “Matters already under investigation are confidential,”
Herbosa says in a mobile text message reply to questions,
without giving further details. Calata President Joseph Calata
wasn’t immediately available for comment when contacted in his
office today.  Knight Market-Making Unit Had ‘Technical Issue’ in Early Swings  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  told some clients of its market-
making unit that a “technical issue” was affecting its systems
and advised them to route orders elsewhere as dozens of U.S.
stocks swung more than 10 percent yesterday.  Knight, which helps execute billions of dollars in equity
transactions every day, said the issue was confined to market
making and other operations were unaffected. Its  stock  plunged
as much as 26 percent as investors speculated on its role in the
incident, which spurred concern that computers had distorted
trading for the second time in two weeks.  The incident, occurring after three Dow Jones Industrial
Average stocks fluctuated in regular hourly patterns for a full
trading day on July 19, may embolden critics of American market
structure who say the computers that dominate trading have
become too complex to control. Special curbs adopted after the
May 2010 equity crash helped calm yesterday’s volatility.  The New York Stock Exchange said it was reviewing trades in
148 securities between 9:30 a.m. and 10:15 a.m. New York time,
according to a statement on its website.  “At this time, we believe NYSE systems and circuit
breakers operated normally during this period, and we are
working with all market participants on the issue,” NYSE said
in an e-mailed statement.  Robert Madden, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.,
declined to comment.  For more, click here, and click here.  MF Global Clients to Get Most of Their Money, Says Trustee  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) ’s brokerage customers, facing a
$1.6 billion gap in funds, will eventually recoup between 90
percent and all of their money, according to the trustees
overseeing the liquidation.  James W. Giddens, the trustee overseeing the MF Global Inc.
unit’s bankruptcy, made the remarks about the 90 percent
distribution yesterday at a U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee
 hearing  in Washington.  Giddens commented after  Louis Freeh , bankruptcy trustee for
MF Global’s holding company, said it was his belief customers
would eventually recoup all their money. He said he based his
conclusion on estimates of the return of customer funds from
foreign jurisdictions and settlements obtained by Giddens’s
office.  U.S. lawmakers called for the hearing to oversee the
response to the MF Global downfall and the recent collapse of
Peregrine Financial Group Inc., which has left about $220
million in client funds unaccounted. The failures, which are
being probed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
and Justice Department among others, have undermined confidence
in the futures market and spurred calls for new rules, according
to lawmakers and regulators.  The CFTC’s investigation into MF Global could lead to
allegations that rules governing fund segregation and
supervision of customer accounts were violated, Jill E. Sommers,
a Republican commissioner and senior agency member overseeing
the probe, said at the hearing. The CFTC’s enforcement unit
could also file an action against corporate entities or
individuals, including management.  Giddens has distributed about 80 percent of what commodity
future customers are owed, he said. The largest disputes with
claimants include those with the company’s U.K. Joint Special
Administrators. A trial is expected to start in April to resolve
a dispute over $700 million of customer funds.  Giddens is still evaluating creditor and customer claims,
and may litigate those where an agreement can’t be reached on
what the brokerage owes. He said he still sees lawsuits against
former MF Global Chief Executive Officer Jon S. Corzine, former
chief financial officer Henri Steenkamp and former assistant
treasurer Edith O’Brien, among others, as a way to recover more
money for creditors.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  has already returned $89.2 million in
customer property and $518.4 million in other assets.  For more, click here.  Peregrine Probed by Labor Department, Chapter 7 Trustee Says  Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s handling of its employees’
401(k) plan is being reviewed by the U.S. Labor Department, the
collapsed commodity firm’s bankruptcy trustee told a U.S. Senate
Panel.  Trustee Ira Bodenstein disclosed the department’s action in
written testimony for a hearing yesterday by the Senate
Agriculture Committee.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy on July 10 after
the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm and founder Russell Wasendorf
Sr. were sued by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  The CFTC accused Wasendorf and the firm of misappropriating
more than $200 million in customer funds. He has been charged
with lying to U.S. agents and is being held in federal custody.  The Labor Department doesn’t comment on the existence of
ongoing investigations, Jason Surbey, an agency spokesman, said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The bankruptcy
case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-27488, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Courts  Motey Says He Passed Marvell Revenue Figures to Doug Whitman  Karl Motey, a former computer-chip industry analyst,
testified that he got confidential  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL) 
revenue figures from sources inside the company and gave the
information to Whitman Capital LLC founder Doug Whitman.  Prosecutors have charged Whitman with using inside
information from Motey and from  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC) 
executive, to make almost $1 million for his Menlo Park,
California-based hedge fund.  The trial is part of a broad government investigation of
insider trading involving hedge funds. Since August 2009, at
least 70 people have been charged with insider trading by the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. More than 60 have pleaded
guilty or been convicted at trial.  Motey, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, told jurors he’s testifying in hopes of avoiding prison
when he’s sentenced.  Prosecutors said they plan to call Khan as a witness.  Whitman denies the charges against him. In an opening
statement, David Anderson, a defense lawyer, told jurors that
the witnesses testifying against Whitman are “criminals and
liars” who hope to stay out of prison by incriminating his
client.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Hearings  Gensler Says It’s ‘Critical’ CFTC Further Updates Rules  Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, talked about the outlook for oversight of brokerage
firms following the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd. and
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  Gensler spoke before a U.S. Senate Agriculture Committee
hearing yesterday in Washington.  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  North Carolina Utility Board Hires Valukas for Duke Probe  The North Carolina Utilities Commission hired Jenner &
Block Chairman Anton Valukas to aid in its probe of whether it
was misled when it approved  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s takeover of
Progress Energy Inc., the law firm said.  Valukas is a former U.S. Attorney in Chicago and served as
U.S. Justice Department examiner in the Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. bankruptcy, documenting that firm’s collapse in 2008.  The state agency is investigating Duke’s decision to fire
Progress Energy Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson  within
hours of completing the $17.8 billion dollar merger that last
month created the largest U.S. utility owner.  Johnson, who was to be CEO of the combined companies, was
replaced by Duke CEO  Jim Rogers .  Under state law, the costs of the investigation will be
charged to Duke and will not be passed on to its customers, the
state agency said in a statement announcing the hiring.  “We have fully cooperated with the North Carolina
Utilities Commission in its recent investigation of Duke
Energy,” Tom Williams, a spokesman for the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based company, said in an e-mailed statement. “That
will continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  