-- Monti Warns Italy Risks Anti-Euro Shift Without Action on Spread
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2012-08-02T09:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/monti-warns-italy-risks-anti-euro-shift-without-action-on-spread.html
Italy  risks a public backlash that
could lead to an anti-euro government in the region’s third-
biggest economy should European policy makers fail to bring down
borrowing costs, said Prime Minister  Mario Monti .  Monti made the remarks in Finland during a three-nation
tour aimed at challenging his European Union colleagues to back
his fight to lower the extra yield investors are imposing on
Italian and Spanish government debt.  Spain  and Italy are now in
focus as they suffer contagion from the debt crisis that erupted
in  Greece  almost three years ago.  “If the spread in Italy remains at this level for some
time, then you’re going to see a non-EU oriented, non-euro
oriented, non-fiscal discipline oriented government in Italy,”
Monti said in a speech in Helsinki.  Monti is due in  Madrid  later today for talks with Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  as he seeks to capitalize on a pledge by
European Central Bank chief  Mario Draghi  to do whatever is takes
to save the euro. Investors are looking to see if Draghi will
give specifics on how he plans to make good on that commitment
when he holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  The yield on Italy’s 10-year bond fell 11 basis points to
5.8 percent at 10 a.m. in Rome. Even with the decline that rate
remains about 1 percentage point higher than at the start of
March and 4.4 percentage points more than similar maturity
German debt. Spain’s 10-year yield, which surged to a euro-era
record 7.5 percent last month, fell 6 basis points to 6.6
percent.  Weidmann Warning  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann indicated his opposition
to aggressive action by the ECB yesterday when he said the
central bank shouldn’t exceed its inflation-fighting mandate,
according to an interview posted on the German central bank’s
website yesterday. He also stressed  Germany ’s importance in
setting common strategy in the 17-nation euro area.  Monti, asked in Helsinki what he wanted the ECB to do,
declined to comment, citing the bank’s independence.  “I only wish by the way that all components within the
European system of central banks displayed the same degree of
respect for the independence of the ECB as heads of governments
do,” he told reporters.  With Italian elections due by April, public anger over the
fallout from the debt crisis is eroding support for the euro.
The Five-Star movement of comedian-turned politician Beppe Grillo would get 20 percent of the vote should elections be held
today, a July 13 poll by IPR Marketing showed. That would
probably prevent either of the country’s main parties from
gaining enough support to form a government on their own. Monti,
who leads an unelected government of non-politicians, has said
he won’t seek another term.  Frustration Rising  Grillo’s party is the main political force to profit from
rising frustration over the tax increases and budget cuts
adopted by Monti that have left Italy on track to balance its
budget next year while failing to stop the surge in borrowing
costs. Grillo, 63, said in a May 10 interview that Italy giving
up the euro “can’t be a taboo” and that the currency has
become “an ever-tightening noose” around Italy.  Almost three years since the sovereign debt crisis surfaced
in Greece, Monti is leading efforts to coax  Europe  into
strengthening its bailout capacity to try to reverse the kind of
surging bond yields that led Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to
seek bailouts. President  Barack Obama  called Monti July 30 and
“reiterated his support for decisive action to resolve the
crisis,” according to a White House statement.  No Bailout  Italy won’t need a bailout, though it may want Europe’s
rescue funds and the ECB to buy its bonds in a bid to narrow
spreads, Monti said yesterday.  “Italy does not seem to be in need of any particular help,
certainly not for the rescue of its economy nor for its
budgetary needs,” he said in Helsinki yesterday. “Italy may
need help perhaps in relation with the slow pace which markets
recognize the efforts taken and the results achieved by Italy or
other countries for that matter.”  Markets are awaiting the establishment of the 500 billion-
euro ($615 billion) ESM, which is on hold pending a decision by
Germany’s Federal Constitutional Court, set for Sept. 12. Monti
said the permanent rescue fund will eventually gain access to
ECB liquidity via a bank license, challenging German policy
makers to back more actions to tame the euro-area crisis.  “I think this would help, I think this will in due course
occur,” Monti said yesterday at a news conference with Finnish
Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen .  North-South Divide  While Monti has found common cause on stepping up efforts
to resolve the crisis with Rajoy of Spain and French President
 Francois Hollande , leaders in Germany and Finland have proven
less willing to commit more help.  Merkel and her Cabinet ministers ruled out any move to
grant the ESM a banking license, a proposal that would allow the
fund to wield unlimited firepower, Economy Minister Philipp Roesler said.  “The chancellor and we have discussed it and we are united
that a bank license cannot be our way,” Roesler, who is also
vice chancellor, told reporters in Berlin after he stood in for
Merkel at the weekly Cabinet meeting. Merkel is on vacation.
“Fiscal discipline and economic reforms have to be the way
forward,” Roesler said. “Other ways are not suitable.”  Leaders in AAA rated  Finland , the northernmost euro member,
have been no more accommodating. Finland demanded collateral for
Greece’s second bailout last year and has since insisted it will
only contribute to Spain’s banking rescue if it gets similar
security. Finland also wants rescue funds to come with strict
terms such as austerity and burden sharing for bondholders.  “We have been very critical on secondary-market operations
by rescue funds as we don’t believe that’s the right way to use
money,” Katainen said yesterday. Still, he said the situation
in the sovereign bond markets is “not normal,” and “some sort
of European solution” was needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net 
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  