-- Moody’s Says India Power Outages Are Credit-Negative for Economy
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-08-02T07:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/moody-s-says-india-power-outages-are-credit-negative-for-economy.html
India ’s worst power blackouts
underscore infrastructure gaps and have a “credit negative
effect” on economic activity, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “Power disruptions will further depress business sentiment,
already dampened by slowing growth and the government’s
inability to implement measures to revive investment,” Moody’s
analysts led by Atsi Sheth said in a note today. “The magnitude
of this week’s disruptions will increase political pressure on
the government to commit to greater  capital expenditures  in the
power sector, which will put further pressure on the
government’s already stretched fiscal position.”  Two collapses in India’s grid in as many days this week
left more than half the country’s population of 1.2 billion
without electricity, underlining the need for better roads,
ports and  power plants . The failures add to the challenge of
reviving an economy expanding at the weakest pace in nine years,
hurt by fiscal and trade deficits and elevated inflation.  “India’s power sector suffers from inadequate fuel supplies
for the country’s predominantly coal-fired power generation
capacity, an inability to transport imported fuels to power
stations located inland, and aging and unreliable distribution
networks that struggle to deliver generated electricity to
consumers,” Moody’s said.  The  fiscal shortfall  in  Asia ’s third-largest economy
swelled to 5.8 percent of gross domestic product in the year
ended March. The government projects unprecedented borrowing of
5.69 trillion rupees ($102 billion) for the 12 months that began
April 1, even as it seeks to narrow the gap to 5.1 percent.  Kept at Stable  India’s sovereign credit outlook was kept at stable by
Moody’s on June 25, contrasting with reductions to negative by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings this year.  “Certain recent negative trends -- such as lower growth,
slowing investment and poor business sentiment -- are unlikely
to become permanent or even medium-term features of the Indian
economy,” Moody’s said at the time.  Moody’s, S&P and Fitch rate India at the lowest investment
grade level. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has pledged to revive
growth as he fights to avert a downgrade to junk status.  Gross domestic product  rose  5.3 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, the least since 2003. Inflation has
exceeded 7 percent for most of this year. The rupee has tumbled
about 21 percent against the dollar in the past 12 months, the
worst slide among major Asian currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  