-- SAP to Pay Oracle $306 Million for Copyright Breach
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-03T07:42:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/oracle-says-sap-to-pay-306-million-in-copyright-deal.html
SAP AG (SAP)  will pay at least $306 million
to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in a copyright-infringement lawsuit over an SAP
unit’s downloading and copying of Oracle software.  Oracle, the world’s largest maker of  database software , won
a $1.3 billion jury verdict in the case in 2010. A federal judge
reduced the award to $272 million. Oracle opted instead for a
new trial, which was scheduled for Aug. 27.  The companies agreed on a judgment for $306 million in
damages “to save time and expense of this new trial,” lawyers
for Oracle and SAP said in a filing in federal court in Oakland.
The accord requires approval from U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton.  Oracle, based in  Redwood City ,  California , will also ask a
federal appeals court in San Francisco to reinstate the jury
verdict, the company said in an e-mail. SAP doesn’t have to pay
the damages until after all appeals or new trials in the case
have concluded, according to court filings. If Oracle wins a
judgment that’s less than $306 million in any subsequent ruling
or trial, SAP agreed to pay the difference.  “The conduct that led to this lawsuit and jury award is
truly unprecedented,” Oracle attorney Geoff Howard said
yesterday in an e-mail.  SAP shares declined as much as 0.9 percent to 50.82 euros
and traded 0.8 percent lower as of 9:40 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today.
Oracle lost 1.3 percent yesterday in  New York  trading.  SAP, the biggest maker of business-management software, was
sued by Oracle, its biggest competitor, after the discovery that
an SAP software maintenance unit had downloaded and copied
Oracle software. Oracle said SAP’s aim was to avoid paying
licensing fees and to steal customers.  TomorrowNow Unit  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , didn’t contest that it was
liable for the infringement by its TomorrowNow unit, which it
closed in 2008.  “SAP believes this case has gone on long enough,” Jim
Dever, an SAP spokesman, said by e-mail. “Although we believe
that $306 million is more than the appropriate damages amount,
we agreed to this in an effort to bring this case to a
reasonable resolution.”  SAP already has paid Oracle $120 million for its legal fees
in the case. The company has set aside 227 million euros ($277
million) relating to the litigation, according to its balance
sheet as of June 30. The difference between the provisions and
the actual payments to be made will probably reduce third-
quarter net income under International Financial Reporting
Standards, spokesman Christoph Liedtke said by phone. It won’t
affect measures the company uses for its full-year forecast, he
added.  The case is Oracle v. SAP, 07-1658, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  