-- Orders to U.S. Factories Unexpectedly Declined 0.5% in June
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-08-02T14:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/orders-to-u-s-factories-unexpectedly-declined-0-5-in-june.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
unexpectedly declined in June, reflecting less demand for
business equipment and the biggest decrease in bookings for non-
durable goods in more than three years.  The 0.5 percent drop in  bookings  followed a revised 0.5
percent increase in the prior month, the Commerce Department said
today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.5 percent gain. June orders
for durable goods climbed 1.3 percent, revised from the 1.6
percent surge reported last week. Demand for non-durable items,
reported today for the first time, slumped 2 percent, the biggest
drop since March 2009.  Orders may have waned last month as well, according to a
purchasing managers’ report yesterday that showed manufacturing
unexpectedly contracted in July. The industry, facing the
headwinds of  Europe ’s debt crisis, a weakening global economy and
a slowdown in corporate investment, is providing less of a boost
to the economy.  “The industrial heartland had been doing all the heavy
lifting when it came to driving the economy,”  Joel Naroff ,
president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland,  Pennsylvania ,
said in an e-mail before the report. “Right now, the sector
looks a bit tired.”  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey of 54 economists ranged
from a decline of 0.9 percent to an increase of 1.9 percent. The
Commerce Department revised the May figure from a previously
reported increase of 0.7 percent.  Stocks held earlier losses after the  European Central Bank 
kept rates on hold and President  Mario Draghi  failed to reassure
investors he was ready to take immediate steps to support the
economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.6 percent to
1,366.54 at 10:05 a.m. in  New York .  Broad-Based Drop  The decrease in non-durable goods orders followed a 0.4
percent drop in May and reflected broad-based declines in sales
of everything from petroleum products to chemicals to food.  Factory orders excluding the volatile transportation
category, decreased 1.8 percent in June, the biggest drop since
March 2009, after no change the month before.  Bookings for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 1.7
percent in June. Shipments of those goods, which are used in
calculating gross domestic product, climbed 1 percent for a
second month.  An  unemployment rate  that’s exceeded 8 percent for 41
straight months is restraining household spending, which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy.  Auto Sales  At the same time, automakers have been a source of strength.
Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. are on pace for record
production in  North America  this year, and Chrysler Group LLC is
boosting output to meet demand with the industry on track for its
best annual sales total since 2007.  Cars and light trucks sold at a 14.1 million  annual rate  in
July, unchanged from the prior month, industry figures showed
yesterday. It also matched the average for the second quarter,
indicating little momentum as the industry heads for the best
year since 2007, before the last recession.  “We think some truck buyers have been reacting to the mixed
economic signals of the last few months,” Chrysler spokesman  Jim Cain  said on a conference call yesterday. “But recent reports of
 consumer confidence ,  home prices , and personal income were better
than expected. We expect all of these factors will help release
more pent-up demand.”  Factory inventories increased 0.1 percent in June, today’s
report showed, while shipments slumped 1.1 percent, bringing the
inventory-to-shipments ratio to 1.29 months, the highest since
November, from 1.27 months.  Less Support  Manufacturing accounts for about 12 percent of the economy
and has been at the forefront of the recovery that began June
2009. Cooling business investment means it may offer less support
to the expansion in the second quarter.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s July factory  index ,
held near a three-year low of 49.7 reached in June, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group said yesterday. A reading below 50 indicates
a slowdown. Other reports suggested a global retrenching, with
U.K. manufacturing shrinking the most in more than three years
and euro-area factories reducing output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  