-- Osim’s Massage Chairs Link IPhones to Woo Buyers: Southeast Asia
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-08-03T10:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/osim-s-massage-chairs-link-iphones-to-tap-buyers-southeast-asia.html
Osim International Ltd. (OSIM) ,  Asia ’s
biggest maker of massage chairs, is turning to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone to help boost sales to younger buyers.  The app will allow users of its latest  uDivine App  chairs,
costing S$5,588 ($4,484) each, to download new massage programs
that cater to individual needs, Ron Sim, chief executive officer
of the Singapore-based company, said in an interview. More
massage sequences, such as those for tennis or golf players, may
be rolled out and downloaded to existing chairs, he said.  “That means the programs in the future will be infinite,”
Sim, 53, said yesterday in  Singapore . “This business is about
well-being and we need to continue to innovate products to
innovate demand.”  Osim, whose products range from massage chairs and neck
pillows to health supplements and teas in 26 countries, is
banking on new technologies to boost sales in the key markets of
 China , Hong Kong,  Taiwan  and Singapore. The iPhone strategy is
crucial as Osim expands sales of its mainstay massage chairs to
customers in their 20s and 30s, Sim said.  The iPhone feature, which connects wirelessly to the chair
through Bluetooth, also works on the iPad. A similar product may
eventually be added for phones using other mobile technologies
such as Android, said Sim, who founded the company more than
three decades ago.  “It’s part of their constant drive to innovate products,”
said James Koh, a Singapore-based analyst at Maybank Kim Eng
Holdings, who  rates  the stock outperform. “For people who have
not bought a uDivine chair, that is possibly a very good reason
to buy one now.”  Buy Rating  All nine analysts who track Osim recommend buying the
stock, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Osim rose 0.8
percent to S$1.26 at the close in Singapore, the highest in
almost three months. The shares have gained 9.1 percent this
year, lagging behind the 15 percent advance for Singapore’s
benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Osim’s massage chairs, which start at S$2,000, make up 50
percent of its sales and that proportion may rise to 60 percent
in three to five years, said Sim, who was named Best CEO for the
mid-cap category at the  Singapore Corporate Awards  last month.
To tap younger buyers, Osim is also offering installment plans.  “A two-hour spa session costs more than an installment,”
Sim said. “A chair is 24-7.”  Osim last week reported second-quarter profit climbed 20
percent to S$22.5 million, while sales increased 12 percent to
S$155 million.  Innovating Products  “Eventually the strategy for them is to slowly phase out
the older chairs,” said Brandon Ng, a Singapore-based analyst
at UOB Kay Hian, who has a buy rating. “This is just another
strategy for them to introduce new products,” and the higher
price will improve the company’s margins, he said.  The company is expanding as its biggest markets face
slowing growth. China’s manufacturing teetered on the edge of
contraction in July while Singapore’s economy unexpectedly
shrank last quarter, adding to signs of a deepening slowdown in
Asian growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs demand for the
region’s goods.  Osim operates  GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC)  stores in Asia-Pacific
markets such as Singapore,  Malaysia , Taiwan and  Australia , and
also has a stake in  TWG Tea Co. , a Singapore-based high-end tea
retailer. The company, which owns the Brookstone Inc. retail
chain in the U.S., expects Asia to drive its growth. Osim
expects to list Merrimack, New Hampshire-based Brookstone within
three years, Sim said.  Possible Acquisitions  With S$196 million in cash and no debt, Osim is also
seeking acquisitions that can expand its lifestyle and well-
being business and in which it can gain control, the CEO said.  “As long as the market is uncertain, we have a better
bargaining power,” he said. Osim isn’t planning to seek
financing for acquisitions because “we are looking for
companies with growth potential,” Sim said.  The outlook for sales remains positive because of a low
penetration rate for massage chairs in its key markets, said
Sim, who has seven of these products at home, including four in
his karaoke room.  About 5 percent of households in Singapore and  Hong Kong 
own massage chairs, he said, compared with 30 percent in  Japan .
Osim, which has the biggest market share in the two cities,
expects the penetration rate for these markets to reach the
level in Japan within 10 years, he said.  In China, less than 1 percent of the households in the
cities it operates in own massage chairs, he said.  “That’s where the real growth is,” Sim said. “There’s
still a lot of upside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  