-- Hospitals to Get $2 Billion Medicare Payment Increase Next Year
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-08-02T15:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/hospitals-to-get-2-billion-medicare-payment-increase-next-year.html
U.S. hospitals will get a larger
payment increase from Medicare next year than first proposed,
after the government reduced penalties against the industry for
past over-billing of the health care program for the elderly.  The U.S. government  said  in a statement yesterday that it
would increase Medicare payments for hospitals by a total of $2
billion in the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. In April, the
government had said payments to hospitals would increase by a
total of just $175 million.  Payments to acute-care hospitals that include those run by
companies such as  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , the largest U.S. hospital
chain, will increase 2.3 percent next year, compared with 0.9
percent proposed in April. Long-term care hospitals including
for-profit facilities of companies such as  Kindred Healthcare
Inc. (KND) , will see a 0.5 percent increase, less than the 0.8 percent
Medicare had proposed.  The increase for acute-care hospitals “is very positive,”
said  Sheryl Skolnick , a managing director at CRT Capital Group
in  Stamford , Connecticut, in an e-mail.  HCA, based in Nashville, Tennessee rose less than 1 percent
to $26.30 at 11:49 a.m.  New York  time. Kindred, based in
Louisville, Kentucky, rose 1.5 percent to $9.26.  Hospitals had lobbied since April for more money from
Medicare, the largest single payer for the industry. The
American Hospital Association, the industry’s main lobby group,
said in a June 19  letter  that penalties Medicare planned to levy
for alleged over-billing dating back to fiscal 2007 were based
on “flawed” calculations and were “highly inappropriate.”  The government agreed to scale back the penalties by about
$1 billion from the April proposal, said Kathryn Ceja, a
spokeswoman for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,
in an e-mail.  The penalties “would have been detrimental for America’s
seniors,” said Richard Umbdenstock, the hospital association’s
president and CEO, in a statement last night. “Hospitals care
for patients with complex medical needs and today’s rule
reflects this reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  