-- Stocks, Commodities Decline on Draghi; Treasuries Gain
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-02T20:23:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/most-asian-stocks-rise-copper-gains-before-ecb-meet-oil-drops.html
U.S. stocks fell for a fourth day and
Spanish bonds tumbled after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors he was ready to take
immediate steps to support the economy. Treasuries gained, while
the euro and commodities declined.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.7 percent to 1,365
as of 4 p.m. in New York, bringing its weekly loss to 1.5
percent. Spain’s IBEX 35 fell 5.2 percent and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index declined 1.3 percent. The euro weakened 0.4 percent to
$1.2182. Oil slumped 2 percent to $87.13 a barrel. The 10-year
Treasury yield lost four basis points to 1.48 percent. Spanish
10-year yields advanced 43 basis points to 7.16 percent.  Draghi signaled the bank will join forces with governments
to buy sovereign bonds in sufficient quantities to ease the
region’s debt crisis, while conceding that Germany’s Bundesbank
has reservations about the plan. ECB officials are working on
the plan and details will be fleshed out in coming weeks, he
said after keeping the benchmark interest rate on hold at 0.75
percent. The Bank of England held its key rate at 0.5 percent.  “The market is clearly disappointed with the ECB
announcement this morning,”  John Bailey , chief executive
officer and founder of Spruce Private Investors, which manages
$3 billion, said on a phone interview. Draghi “built up
expectations, as we saw in the rally last week, and this
disappointment is a function of strong talk from Europe,
followed by inaction.”  Fed’s Pledge  Yesterday, the American central bank also failed to bolster
confidence. The  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to provide additional
support for the economy disappointed investors anticipating a
more definitive sign of further monetary easing. The  S&P 500 
rose as much as 29 percent from its October 2011 low amid bets
the central bank would add further economic stimulus.  The number of Americans filing applications for
 unemployment benefits  rose less than forecast last week as
annual auto shutdowns continued to influence the number, Labor
Department figures showed today before tomorrow’s monthly
payrolls report. U.S. jobless claims climbed by 8,000 to
365,000. The median forecast of 47 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase to 370,000.  The  employment report  for July is projected to show
payrolls increased by 100,000 after a 80,000 gain in June,
according to the Bloomberg survey median. The jobless rate,
which has been stuck above 8 percent since February 2009, was
probably at 8.2 percent for a third moth.  Factory Orders  Orders placed with U.S. factories unexpectedly declined in
June, another report showed today, reflecting less demand for
business equipment and the biggest decrease in bookings for non-
durable goods in more than three years.  The  S&P 500 (SPX)  has fallen 1.5 percent this week, poised for
the first decline in four weeks and its biggest drop since June
1.  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  plunged 63 percent today after
saying losses from a trading breakdown are  $440 million , more
than some analysts had estimated, as it explores strategic and
financial alternatives.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  General Electric Co. (GE) 
dropped at least 1 percent to pace losses in the biggest
companies.  General Motors Co. (GM)  slid 2.6 percent as
the automaker said second-quarter profit slumped 38 percent.
 Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  fell 8.6 percent after suspending a
mid-stage trial of an experimental hepatitis C drug and as an
executive was accused of  insider trading .  Abercrombie & Fitch
Co. (ANF)  tumbled 15 percent as the retailer cut its forecast.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 1.3 percent. Banks pulled
the gauge lower, with  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Deutsche Bank AG
losing at least 5.2 percent. Veolia Environnement SA plummeted
12 percent after the French utility said the economy in Italy
and France hurt first-half results. Deutsche Post AG rose 2.3
percent after earnings beat estimates.  Ratcheted Up  Financial markets and politicians had ratcheted up pressure
on the ECB to act after Draghi pledged last week to do
“whatever it takes” to save a euro battered for almost three
years by spiraling bond yields in countries from Spain to
Greece. The Bundesbank reiterated last week that it opposes
further purchases of sovereign debt by the ECB, as they blur the
line between fiscal and monetary policy.  “The market was anticipating we would get an actual plan
as opposed to the measures that they appear to be considering,”
said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
Memphis, Tennessee. “It doesn’t quite match the buildup to this
morning’s press conference. It’s not yet the all-clearing
announcement that people were anticipating.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian called
recent declines in purchasing manager indexes in Europe and Asia
“frightening” and said the world economy is suffering its
severest slowdown since the global recession ended in 2009.  Global Growth  El-Erian, who is chief executive officer of the Newport
Beach, California-based Pimco, predicted global growth of 2.25
percent over the next 12 months. That’s down from the 3.9
percent in 2011 and 5.3 percent in 2010 recorded by the
 International Monetary Fund . The world economy contracted 0.6
percent in 2009.  “This is a serious, synchronized slowdown,” El-Erian said
in an interview today.  The euro dropped 0.7 percent to 95.27 yen after rising as
much as 1.1 percent today. The European currency weakened
against 15 of its 16 major counterparts.  European Yields  Italy’s 10-year yield climbed 40 basis points to 6.33
percent. The German 10-year bund yield tumbled 14 basis points
to 1.23 percent.  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities tumbled 1.1 percent.
Crude oil lost 2 percent, extending its decline for the year to
12 percent. Copper slid 2.5 percent in New York and gold futures
retreated for a third day.  Corn fell 0.6 percent, capping its longest losing streak
since June, as some lawmakers urged the U.S. to amend an
alternative-fuel mandate, dimming prospects for demand. The
worst U.S. drought since 1956 sent corn prices to a record this
week, raising the prospect of higher grocery bills as the cost
of grain-based livestock feed jumped.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  retreated 1 percent,
snapping a five-day rally. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) 
lost 1 percent, its steepest drop since July 23. The Shanghai
Composite Index slipped 0.6 percent, as  Poly Real Estate Group
Co. (600048) , China’s second-largest property developer, tumbled 9.2
percent, the most since April 2010. Russia’s Micex Index dropped
1.3 percent, while India’s Sensex Index declined 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  