-- House Passes Fast-Track Process for Rewrite of Tax Law
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-02T22:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/house-passes-fast-track-process-for-rewrite-of-tax-law.html
The  House of Representatives  voted to
set up a fast-track process for overhauling the U.S. tax code in
2013.  The Republican plan, passed 232-189, would remove some
procedural hurdles and set parameters for the tax law. The
measure has little chance of advancing in the Democratic-
controlled Senate, and the White House has threatened a veto.  The House bill would reduce the top individual and
corporate tax rates to 25 percent from 35 percent and curtail
tax breaks. It would pare the six individual brackets to two.
The alternative minimum tax would be abolished and companies
would face lighter taxes on income earned outside the U.S.  “When paired with appropriate government spending cuts,
comprehensive  tax reform  that includes these policies could lead
to the creation of 1 million American jobs in the first year
alone,” Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said during
debate today.  Republicans voted a day after passing a one-year extension
of the George W. Bush-era income tax cuts, scheduled to expire
at the end of this year, for all income levels.  Senate Democrats 
and President Barack Obama want to allow the tax cuts for top
earners to expire.  All Democrats and three Republicans voted against the bill.
Those Republicans are Walter Jones of North Carolina,  Ron Paul 
of Texas and Chris Gibson of New York.  Demonstrating Progress  House Republicans  such as Peter Roskam of Illinois say the
party is trying to demonstrate progress toward a tax-code
rewrite to first-term lawmakers eager for faster action. The two
House tax bills will be tied together and sent to the Senate,
linking the fast-track process to the tax-cut extension.  Because the bill passed today calls for reducing rates and
limiting  tax revenue  to 19 percent of gross domestic product,
Democrats say it would cause the U.S. tax burden to be shifted
from top earners to middle-income taxpayers.  House Democratic leader  Nancy Pelosi  said the House
Republican tax-overhaul proposal would exceed the “greatest
extraction of wealth from the middle class up to the high end”
enacted by the Bush-era income tax cuts.  “What it does to the middle class and what it does to
millionaires, it’s stunning,” Pelosi of California told
reporters. “It almost has an immorality to it.”  The fast-track procedure would let the minority in the
Senate insist on a 60-vote threshold before a final vote.
Congress could also amend the bill.  The bill is H.R. 6169.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  