-- House Republicans Pass Drought Relief and Delay Farm Bill
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/house-republicans-seek-drought-relief-while-delaying-farm-bill.html
The U.S. House passed a $383 million
emergency relief package for livestock producers affected by the
worst drought in almost a half-century as Republicans and
Democrats complained about inaction on a broader farm bill that
would help more farmers and ranchers.  House Republican leaders pushed the stand-alone drought
relief bill, which passed on a 223-197 vote, because they don’t
have enough support to advance a five-year farm bill approved
July 12 by the House Agriculture Committee. The Senate won’t
pass the drought measure before leaving  Washington  today, said
Senate Agriculture Committee Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow .  The farm bill’s difficulties in the House resemble those
House Speaker  John Boehner  encountered when he tried to pass a
transportation and highway measure. The measure languished for
months because of opposition among Republican members and never
came to a House vote.  One big difference: Boehner favored the House highway
measure. The  Ohio Republican  said the farm bill perpetuates a
“Soviet-style” dairy subsidy and “would actually make it
worse.”  Republicans are split between rural and urban lawmakers who
have varied perspectives about farm policy and transportation
needs. Some have philosophical objections to  farm subsidies .  ‘Incredibly Complicated’  When it comes to farm legislation, “the politics are
incredibly complicated,” said Patrick Westhoff, who directs the
Food and Agriculture Policy Research Institute at the  University
of Missouri  in Columbia. Some Republicans “would like to see a
lot more reductions in spending” and fewer policies that
“direct marketing and production decisions,” he said.  The House farm bill would cut U.S. Department of
Agriculture programs by $35.1 billion over the next decade.
Democrats are resisting the $16 billion in cuts over a decade to
the food-stamp nutrition program for low-income Americans.  The “overwhelming majority” of Democrats oppose the
legislation, said second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer of
 Maryland . Those who support it want to set up negotiations with
the Senate, which passed a bipartisan measure, he said.  Today, Boehner told reporters the House can’t pass a farm
measure because lawmakers are “pretty well divided” over
whether it would spend too little or too much on  food stamps .  “I haven’t seen 218 votes in the middle to pass a farm
bill,” Boehner said.  Senate Bill  The Senate’s agriculture bill, passed last month, is
designed to save $23.1 billion over a decade, cutting food
stamps by about $4 billion.  In the House, “if the problem were only food stamps, they
could probably figure something out,” Westhoff said. Among
Republicans, “there are a lot of people who would like to see
as many free-market principles included in the farm bill and
would oppose the level of spending” for agriculture and
nutrition programs, he said.  Democrats including Minnesota Representative Tim Walz, who
voted for the farm bill in committee, compared the drought
relief measure to “patching a roof when it’s raining.”  Farmers wouldn’t “need the ad hoc  disaster relief 
assistance if you just pass a farm bill that deals with these
issues,” Walz said.  “Farmers aren’t panicked by the drought,” he said.
“They’ve lived through this; what they are worried about, they
don’t have the tools necessary to plan for it.”  Fruit Orchards  Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat seeking re-election in
November, said the drought measure doesn’t help Michigan farmers
with parched fruit orchards.  “So I’m not passing a bill that only has some help for
some producers,” she said.  Senate Democrats  will use the House-
passed measure to seek negotiations on broader farm legislation
that includes disaster relief, she said.  Walz said if House leaders put the farm bill up for a vote,
enough Democrats would support it to advance the measure to a
House-Senate conference committee. Democrats made similar
predictions when they demanded that Boehner schedule a House
floor vote for a bipartisan highway funding measure passed by
the Democratic-controlled Senate.  Transportation Bill  The transportation measure passed by the House
Transportation and Infrastructure Committee didn’t get a floor
vote because Boehner couldn’t get enough backing among
Republicans to pass it without widespread Democratic support.  Instead, House and Senate negotiators struck a compromise
and on June 29 both chambers passed a 27-month, $94.3 billion
extension the day before highway programs were set to lapse.  House leaders “pulled a rabbit out of a hat,” said
Oklahoma Republican Tom Cole.  The committee-passed farm bill is in trouble because a
growing number of lawmakers in both parties resist “lavishing
massive support on parts of agriculture that don’t need it,”
said Oregon Democrat Earl Blumenauer. The House may be
“reaching a point that there is critical mass on the House
floor to resist that,” he said.  Heritage Acton for America, a pro-Republican political
action committee, opposed the drought measure in a statement
that said it makes farmers “more dependent on government and
bails them out for not adequately preparing for hardship” after
the insurance program lapsed in September.  ‘Market Direction’  Ohio Republican  Jim Jordan , head of the fiscally
conservative Republican Study Committee, said he opposed the
drought measure because the U.S. needs to get to a “market
direction” in agriculture policy.  California Democrat Jim Costa said the measure “does not
help pork or poultry producers” and gives only “limited
protection to dairy farmers.”  Walz said many Democrats are balking at cuts in
conservation programs needed to raise the $383 million to revive
the livestock assistance program that expired last Sept. 30 and
extend it through September 2012.  Some freshmen Republicans were “calling it a bailout,”
Walz said.  After scrapping a plan to seek a one-year extension of
current farm programs,  House Republicans  then turned to the
stand-alone drought measure.  In floor debate,  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican and
chairman of the Agriculture Committee, spoke about the farm bill
that “my colleagues seem to either love or hate, or love to
hate, or hate to love.”  “The bill is not perfect, no legislation is,” yet it
“saves over $35 billion,” Lucas said.  Minnesota Representative  Collin Peterson , the top Democrat
on the panel, said the drought measure is “a sad substitute for
what is really needed, a long-term farm policy.”  Peterson said the farm bill would “do a better job of
providing certainty” for farmers “and assistance during this
period of drought.”  The drought-relief measure is H.R. 6233.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  