-- House Chairman to Push Tax Credits Extension for Vets
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-02T20:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/house-chairman-to-push-tax-credits-extension-for-vets.html
The chairman of the House Veterans’
Affairs Committee said he’ll push to extend tax credits that
expire this year for employers who hire jobless veterans.  Representative Jeff Miller, a Florida Republican, said
there’s anecdotal evidence that the tax credits, which President
 Barack Obama  signed into law in November, are beginning to help
troops coming home from war find  private-sector jobs.  “I think it will be easy to extend them,” Miller said at
a Bloomberg Government lunch today.  The law provides employers a credit of as much as $5,600
for each unemployed veteran they hire. The credit rises to
$9,600 for disabled veterans.  Miller estimated the cost of the tax credits at about $100
million over two years, “and I have an offset for them,” he
said, referring to spending cuts he’s prepared to offer to pay
for the tax breaks. He declined to say what he’ll propose.  Pointing to pledges by companies to hire more veterans,
Miller said, “I think you’re going to see the numbers drop,”
referring to unemployed veterans.  The jobless rate among veterans who’ve served since 2001
was 9.5 percent in June, compared to an  unemployment rate  that
month of 8.1 percent for all non-veterans, according to the
Bureau of Labor Statistics.  As tens of thousands of young veterans return from
 Afghanistan  and  Iraq  and adjust to civilian life, many are
struggling to find work with employers who don’t recognize their
skills, haven’t shared their war experience, and aren’t sure
what to make of them.  Military Cuts  While the  U.S. economy  slowly recovers, the disparity
between veterans and non-veterans may grow as thousands more
veterans come home from Afghanistan and federal purse strings
tighten. The Pentagon plans to reduce the U.S. military by
123,900 troops, or 5.5 percent, by fiscal 2017 to meet budget-
cutting goals.  The Obama administration is also revamping the military’s
Transition Assistance Program, a three-day workshop aimed at
helping departing service members prepare for the civilian job
market. Veterans and their advocates have described the existing
program as ineffective.  The remodeled program, called Transition GPS, will offer a
five-day curriculum, individual counseling sessions and a
redesigned employment workshop, among other things.  “I think it will make a difference,” Miller said of the
reform effort, which is slated to be in place throughout the
military by the end of next year. “It makes no sense that we
will spend weeks and months training the warfighter and then not
giving them the opportunity to transition back to civilian
life.”  Sequestration Fears  Miller said he wanted to give the new program time to work
before pushing for any additional changes.  Miller also said he’s concerned about the impact that
automatic budget cuts, known as sequestration, might have on
veterans’ programs.  Although the administration has said veterans’ benefits
would be exempt from those cuts, Secretary of Veterans Affairs
Eric Shinseki told Congress last week that administrative costs
would not be exempt, according to a statement from the House
committee.  “I’m still concerned there’s been no direction given to
veterans, even though the president has said their benefits
would be off the table,” Miller said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  