-- House Reprimands California Democrat Laura Richardson
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-08-02T17:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/house-reprimands-california-democrat-laura-richardson.html
The U.S. House voted to reprimand
Representative Laura Richardson, a  California  Democrat, for a
series of ethics violations including requiring staffers to work
on her re-election campaign.  Lawmakers agreed today, on a voice vote, to formally
disapprove of her conduct and impose a $10,000 fine. The
chamber’s ethics committee determined she required staffers to
spend hundreds of hours working on her campaign, used House
resources for unofficial purposes and then interfered with its
investigation by attempting to coach witnesses.  “There is an unspoken duty to hold ourselves to a higher
standard -- unfortunately, as Representative Richardson has
admitted, she did not live up to that higher standard,” said
Representative Jo Bonner, an Alabama Republican who leads the
panel. “While it is ultimately up to her constituents in
California to be the final judge of her actions, I think it’s
safe to say she did a disservice to the hardworking taxpayers
from all corners of this country who expect and deserve more
from their elected leaders.”  Richardson is running for re-election against a fellow
Democrat, Representative Janice Hahn, in a redrawn congressional
district. Richardson placed second to Hahn in the state’s
primary in June. Under California’s new voting system, the top
two candidates will face each other in the November general
election regardless of their party affiliation.  Richardson’s Reprimand  The punishment falls short of expulsion, the harshest
sanction the chamber can impose, though it is more severe than
others such as taking away a lawmaker’s committee assignments.
Richardson is the ninth House member in history to be
reprimanded, according to the ethics committee. Her fine,
payable to the  U.S. Treasury , is due Dec. 1.  Richardson admitted to the seven counts by the ethics
committee though she said today, “I’ve never taken or
threatened any action against any staffer who did not volunteer
to work on my campaign.”  Speaking on the House floor, she said, “There is no doubt
that a number of staff felt compelled or coerced to do so. That
was not my intent and I deeply regret that this occurred.”  Richardson’s staffers were compelled to work in the
evenings and on the weekends under the threat of losing their
jobs, according to the ethics report. They made phone calls and
met with voters in her district. One staffer was directed to
volunteer for her rival’s campaign under a false name to gather
information, according to the ethics committee’s report.  Campaign Supplies  Richardson used her official House budget to buy campaign
supplies and urged staff members to tell ethics investigators
they had volunteered for the campaign work, the report said.  The committee said Richardson treated its investigation
with “utter disdain,” at one point demanding an end to an
interview so she could participate in a congressional softball
game.  Richardson showed an “utter absence of true remorse for
her misuse of official resources and, equally as significant,
for what she has put her staff through, as well as a near total
deflection of responsibility for this matter,” the panel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  