-- Drought Assistance for Livestock Producers Passed by U.S. House
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-08-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/house-passes-aid-for-u-s-livestock-producers-harmed-by-drought.html
The U.S. House voted to extend
federal aid to ranchers who have lost cattle and sheep because
of the drought and other natural disasters, though the Senate
may not take up the measure for at least a month.  The House voted 223-197 yesterday to approve the $383
million  drought-aid bill , which would reimburse ranchers for 75
percent of the value of animals killed by the weather. It would
also extend aid for weather-related losses for grazing lands,
orchards, honey bees and farm-raised fish. The relief expired in
2011, and the bill would make it retroactive to Oct. 1, the
start of the current fiscal year.  “There is a disaster happening out there,” Agriculture
Committee Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, said
before the vote. “Let’s give the tools to our ranchers who are
most exposed.”  The Senate probably won’t take up the bill until at least
Sept. 10, when Congress returns from a monthlong recess that
starts after this week, Senate Agriculture Chairwoman  Debbie Stabenow  told reporters. Instead, lawmakers would use the
drought bill as a vehicle to work, probably informally, with the
House to negotiate a multiyear farm bill.  The current law, which authorizes all Department of
Agriculture programs, was passed in 2008 and expires Sept. 30.
The Senate passed its version of a replacement in June. The bill
would cut $23.6 billion in spending over a decade.  Stabenow, a Democrat, said the House disaster-aid bill is
inadequate. She said fruit producers in 72 counties out of 83 in
her home state of  Michigan  need help and many won’t benefit from
the House measure.  “So I’m not passing a bill that only has some help for
some producers,” Stabenow said.  Five-Year Bill  The House Agriculture Committee on July 12 approved a five-
year bill that would have extended drought aid, reduced or
eliminated some crop subsidies, and expanded insurance programs.
It also would cut $35.1 billion from the deficit when scored
over a decade. Democrats said it cut too much from food aid to
the poor, while from some Republicans said the cuts weren’t deep
enough. Speaker  John Boehner  never scheduled a House vote.  “The House is pretty well divided,”Boehner, an  Ohio
Republican , told reporters yesterday. “You’ve got the left
concerned about reductions in the food-stamp program, you’ve got
the right who don’t think the cuts go far enough.”  “Frankly I haven’t seen 218 votes in the middle to pass a
farm bill,” Boehner said. The House has 435 members.  In yesterday’s vote, 35 Democrats joined most Republicans
in backing the bill, while 46 Republicans voted against it.  Drought Aid  Republicans late last week introduced a one-year extension
of most farm policy, tied to drought aid through September 2013.
That was scuttled after opposition from farm groups, and
replaced by a one-year drought-aid bill. That brought opposition
from some Democrats because the measure is financed through cuts
to conservation programs.  It’s a “sad substitute for what is really needed -- long-
term farm policy,” said Representative  Collin Peterson , the
ranking Democrat on the Agriculture Committee. Peterson, from
 Minnesota , said he would vote for the drought-aid bill as a
good-faith effort toward negotiations on a five-year farm bill,
which he said will continue over the August recess.  The bill is  H.R. 6233 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  