-- Hovnanian Buys Housing Lots in Phoenix for $31.5 Million
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/hovnanian-buys-housing-lots-in-phoenix-for-31-5-million.html
Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV) ,  New
Jersey ’s largest homebuilder, bought 490 lots near Phoenix for
$31.5 million, a sign of the new-home revival in one of the U.S.
markets hit hardest by the housing collapse.  Hovnanian closed the purchase on the finished and
unfinished lots in two tracts northwest of Phoenix yesterday,
according to Mark Weber,  Arizona  division president of the  Red
Bank , New Jersey-based company.  “We have been aggressively pursuing finished lot and
platted lot opportunities in the Phoenix market,” Weber said in
an e-mail.  Builders in the Phoenix area are rushing to acquire more
land as demand for new homes revives amid falling  unemployment 
and a shrinking supply of distressed houses.  Phoenix home prices have risen 12 percent since September,
after falling 56 percent from a June 2006 peak, according to the
S&P/Case-Shiller  index . Foreclosure filings in the Phoenix area
-- including notices of default, trustee sale and completed
auctions -- fell 39 percent in the first six months of this year
from the same period in 2011, RealtyTrac Inc. reported July 26.  There were 332 actively selling new home subdivisions in
the Phoenix area as of July 15, down from 400 on Jan. 1, said
Jim Belfiore, president of Belfiore Real Estate Consulting LLC
in Phoenix. More than 60 percent of the active communities are
expected to run out of lots within 12 months at the current
sales pace, he said.  “The normal for this market should be 750 subdivisions,”
Belfiore said in a telephone interview.  The land bought by Hovnanian was sold by Courtland Homes in
a sale brokered by Nathan & Associates Inc., according to an
offering document obtained by Bloomberg.  Blackstone Group LP’s credit arm agreed last month to
acquire a group of development sites from Hovnanian, with plans
to sell them back to the homebuilder under a $125 million deal.
Hovnanian has been depleting cash to replenish its land
portfolio and take advantage of distressed prices to boost
profit margins.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  