-- How an Act of Congress Killed Off the U.S. Gold Market
-- B y   K e n n e t h   D .   A c k e r m a n
-- 2012-08-02T20:59:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/how-congress-learned-perils-of-shutting-a-market-echoes.html
When President  Abraham Lincoln  acted
in December 1861 to suspend the national gold standard -- the
legal right to convert  paper money  into gold coin or “specie”
-- he wasn’t trying to start a fight with financial speculators
in  New York .  Lincoln had a bigger headache at that moment: trying to
finance his rapidly growing Union Army in its fight against the
South.  Within three years, though, Lincoln’s decision would bring
a defining moment that would shape the federal government’s
relationship with Wall Street. It came in June 1864 when
Congress passed the  Gold Act  -- the single time in U.S. history
that Congress used its power to directly close a major financial
market in the middle of active trading. It was such a failure
that Congress never tried again.  The Gold Act was Washington’s response to a case of extreme
profiteering during one of the bloodiest periods of the Civil
War. After Lincoln had suspended the gold standard in 1861, he
immediately asked Congress to float about $450 million in paper
currency for the government to pay its bills. These steps
created a temporary dual-currency system: paper “greenbacks”
as legal tender for domestic debts, and gold coin as the
currency of the world, needed for foreign trade, tariffs and
custom duties.  Confederate Victories  Without government backing, the value of paper floated
freely against gold. Within a few weeks, there was a brisk
market on  Wall Street  for trading between gold and dollars. Each
Confederate military victory sent gold prices soaring.  Speculators, stock traders, rebel and Union sympathizers,
and government officials soon dominated the market, far
outnumbering the bankers, exporters, importers and other
commercial gold users. Daily price fluctuations affected the
national war effort because rising gold prices directly eroded
the value of the federal Treasury.  A Philadelphia banker, Jay Cooke, called the New York gold
traders “General Lee’s left flank.” The New York Stock
Exchange agreed; it considered gold trading disloyal and refused
to allow it under its roof. This forced gold speculators to form
a separate Gold Exchange on nearby William Street.  Gold prices spiked in June 1864 to $200 in paper -- a 50
percent devaluation of the nation’s paper currency. That spring
marked the culmination of General Ulysses Grant’s “Wilderness
campaign,” a particularly bloody set of encounters as the Army
of the Potomac pursued Confederate General Robert E. Lee across
 Virginia  toward the Confederate capital of Richmond. Casualties
on both sides were enormous, about 40,000 killed and wounded for
the Union and another 70,000 for the Confederacy.  Gold prices peaked just as Grant’s army reached Petersburg,
Virginia, to begin a desperate seven-month siege. The spectacle
of New York financiers profiting from this carnage particularly
outraged the public, and Congress decided it had to act.  The result was the Gold Act, passed with little debate on
June 17, 1864. It was designed to close the Gold Exchange
immediately and thereby end the speculative bubble in prices. To
the surprise of senators and Treasury officials, however, it did
nothing of the kind.  In fact, closing the Gold Exchange only made matters worse,
by encouraging hoarders and fueling a panic.  Kinahan Cornwallis ,
a British-born writer working in New York during the war as a
reporter for the New York Herald, described how “the real
holders of gold were thus isolated,… and purchasers had to run
from office to office, inquiring the price at which holders were
willing to sell … The whole country was alarmed by the rocket-
like ascent of the [gold] premium, including Congress, amazed
and rebuked by the advance.” Finally, he wrote, “Leading
merchants and bankers, who had urged upon Congress this
prohibitory legislation, now wrote and telegraphed to
 Washington , imploring the repeal of the Gold bill.”  Price Spikes  Gold prices would touch almost $300 before Congress would
finally reverse course, repeal the Gold Act, and reopen the
Exchange on July 2 -- barely two weeks after the law was passed.
Even after the Gold Room reopened, chaos continued with further
corners and price spikes. Only the capture of Atlanta by General
William T. Sherman in August 1864 finally broke the  bull market 
in gold. By the time Lee surrendered to Grant at Appomattox
Courthouse on April 9, 1865, the gold price was $144, less than
half its wartime high.  In the 148 years since the Gold Act, Congress has developed
extensive systems to regulate Wall Street --including the
Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, the  Federal Reserve , and the latest
additions under the  Dodd-Frank law , the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and Financial Stability Oversight Council --
but never again has it shut an actively trading market. Closing
a market can turn excitement into fear and transform a bubble
into a panic.  The Gold Act episode taught a simple lesson. In a crisis,
politicians and financial regulators should follow the same rule
as physicians: First, do no harm.  (Kenneth D. Ackerman is the author of four books, including
the recently published The New York Gold Room: Wall Street’s Big
Gamble on the Civil War,” a new release of Kinahan Cornwallis’s
original account of the 1864 Gold Act episode. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post:
Kenneth D. Ackerman at  kackerman@ofwlaw.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 