-- How to Survive a Cyberwar
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-02T22:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/how-to-survive-a-cyberwar.html
Iranian nuclear scientists found a
rude surprise waiting for them at the office last month. A
computer worm had infiltrated the networks at nuclear sites in
Natanz and Fordo and, in addition to shutting down systems,
reportedly left AC/DC’s “Thunderstruck” playing at full volume
on some computers.  Iran has denied the reports. But if true, this was the
latest in a series of cyber-torments, widely attributed to the
U.S. and  Israel , to target the country’s nuclear program. To the
extent that these intrusions have slowed the ayatollahs’
progress toward a possible atomic weapon, and have done so
nonviolently, they should be praised.  Unfortunately, as the era of cyberwarfare accelerates,
thinking about how the U.S. should proceed remains muddled. The
decision Thursday by Republican Senators to block consideration
of important cyberwarfare legislation suggests that Congress is
among the worst offenders.  Cyberspace will clearly be a major theater of future
conflicts, and much of our infrastructure -- the electric grid,
telecommunications, financial systems -- is vulnerable to
digital intrusion.  The best strategy for the U.S. isn’t to count on the free
market to lead American companies to adequately defend
themselves, or worse, pray that international cooperation will
somehow keep cyberspace free of malice. It’s to accept that the
militarization of the digital world is inevitable, and to pass
federal requirements to drastically improve our defenses.  Nothing New  The  Iran  offensive -- including the release of the infamous
Stuxnet worm, which took hundreds of Iranian centrifuges offline
-- is in principle neither new nor unique. From the telegraph to
guided missiles to drones, the U.S. and other countries have
long made use of the electromagnetic spectrum to advance their
military goals. Technology is always being adapted for warfare.  Other countries are also arming themselves -- as are
criminals and terrorists. General Keith Alexander, the head of
U.S. Cyber Command, noted recently that foreign governments and
others had increased the number of computer-based intrusions
against U.S. infrastructure 17-fold between 2009 and 2011, and
stolen some $1 trillion in intellectual property.  Thus far, the U.S.’s offensive superiority in cyberspace,
and the potential for blowback, has deterred other nations from
attempting anything truly destructive. Moreover, terrorists are
probably not yet sophisticated enough to pull off a major
assault. Still, as security experts are fond of saying, a
serious cyberattack is a matter of “when” not “if.”  So what preventative measures should we be taking?  Start by working with allies to create international
guidelines for behavior in cyberspace -- while recognizing the
limitations of such an approach. Security expert Bruce Schneier
 has argued  that hot lines between cyber commands, on the Cold
War nuclear model, could help prevent accidental exchanges,
especially because the provenance of cyberattacks is often hard
to determine. That’s a good idea, although it won’t stop non-
state adversaries from wreaking havoc.  Schneier also argues for updating the Geneva Conventions,
restricting certain tactics in cyberspace (such as attacks
against banking systems) and prohibiting the use of “unaimed
weapons” (which attack computers indiscriminately). That seems
to have limited practical value. Foreign governments will be
hesitant to sign up, violations will be too easy to disguise,
and the opprobrium of the international community is unlikely to
constrain terrorists.  The Worst  Such drawbacks point to the most essential step: Prepare
for the worst. That means paying better attention to exactly
what we connect to the Internet -- watch those thumb drives --
and getting more companies to address their vulnerabilities. It
means improving response measures, including preparing National
Guard units to react to likely disaster scenarios, such as
widespread blackouts or communications failures; building up
alternate sites that can be activated in an emergency; and
creating much clearer lines of authority during an attack.  Most important, it means getting the government and the
private sector to work together.  In this last regard, Congress has unfortunately blundered
badly. The Cybersecurity Act of 2012 was intended to encourage
the private operators of critical infrastructure to adhere to
minimum federal security standards. The bill originally let
companies determine how best to meet these standards, thus
allowing for innovation and competition, while enabling the
Department of  Homeland Security  to enforce compliance.  In negotiations, the legislation was weakened dramatically,
and the security standards were made optional. Backed by the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Republicans argued that no one has a
better incentive to protect against cyber-intrusions than
companies themselves. That’s sloppy thinking at best. As we’ve
argued before, without federal requirements companies simply
won’t spend enough to protect themselves. Proper security is
expensive: A study by Bloomberg Government of 172 organizations
found that they would need to increase their cybersecurity
spending almost ninefold to repel 95 percent of attacks.
Responsible businesses would thus be at a competitive
disadvantage.  Still, the final version of the bill would have been a
decent first step. It would have created exchanges for the
private sector and government agencies to share intelligence,
with adequate privacy protections; rewarded companies for
improving their defenses; strengthened coordination of the
government’s cybersecurity efforts; and offered significant
incentives for research and development.  On Thursday, even this weaker version failed to move
forward in the Senate. Regrettably, a successful assault on U.S.
infrastructure may be the only thing to convince Congress and
the private sector of just how destructive cyberwar can be.  Of course, a militarized cyberspace can also prevent a lot
of bad things from happening. The U.S. was right to disrupt
Iran’s nuclear plans -- especially using a tactic that led to no
casualties, affected no civilians, and may have bought time for
sanctions and negotiations to start to work. Used responsibly,
cyberattacks can offer one more tool in the nonlethal arsenal.  Our adversaries, however, won’t have such benign
intentions. When they strike, we shouldn’t be surprised. We
should be prepared -- and we should know exactly how to respond.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures ;
Stephen L. Carter on  educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt
Romney ’s  exploding tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices
and  Asia’s poor ;  Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind
 “you didn’t build that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by
banks ; Richard Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic
fencing ; Mohamed El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the
world; Handel Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about ;
Anthony B. Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block
mortgage writedowns .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 