-- Toyota Says Electric RAV4 Will Set Pace for Mileage Per Charge
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-08-02T19:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/toyota-says-electric-rav4-will-set-pace-for-mileage-per-charge.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the biggest maker
of hybrid autos, said its RAV4 EV sport-utility vehicle powered
by batteries and motor from  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  will go farther on
a charge than major competitors’ electric models.  The small SUV, arriving at  California  dealers in about a
month, goes as far as 113 miles (182 kilometers) per full
charge, Toyota said at a briefing this week in  Newport Beach ,
California. The $49,800 model is the market’s only all-electric
crossover and qualifies for $10,000 in combined federal and
state incentives, the company said.  “The RAV4 EV’s driving performance, dynamics and cargo
capacity are equal to or exceed the gas-powered RAV4 V-6,” said
Bill Fay, group vice president of U.S. Toyota-brand sales.
“It’s the most practical, versatile and convenient electric
vehicle on the market.”  The battery-powered SUV joins a growing field of
rechargeable models that includes Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf
hatchback, General Motor Co.’s plug-in Volt sedan, Honda Motor
Co.’s Fit EV subcompact and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s five-door Focus EV.
Automakers are adding them to meet demand from some buyers for
vehicles that emit little or no pollution and to comply with
California rules requiring them from the largest brands.  Toyota plans to sell 2,600 of the RAV4 EV during model
years 2012 through 2014 and an additional 30,000 Prius plug-in
hybrids to comply with the state’s zero-emission vehicle
program, Fay said.  Charging Modes  The RAV4 EV takes about six hours to fully recharge,
using a 240-volt outlet, and has two charging modes for its
41.8-kilowatt battery. With a “standard” charge, the model
goes 92 miles; an “extended” charge option is available for
longer trips, boosting range to as far as 113 miles of real-
world driving, the company said.  According to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
the Leaf averages 73 miles per charge, the Focus EV goes about
76 miles and the Fit EV gets about 82 miles. The Volt averages
38 miles on battery power before a gasoline engine engages to
propel the car.  The EPA hasn’t yet rated the RAV4 EV’s range. Toyota
expects the model to average about 103 miles, based on its two
charge modes, said Sheldon Brown, executive program manager for
the vehicle. Only Tesla’s $57,400 Model S sedan and $109,000
Roadster offer greater range, said Greg Bernas, the Toyota City,
Japan-based company’s chief engineer for the electric crossover.  While the Toyota model’s range exceeds that of competing
electric vehicles, it’s less than a third that of an RAV4 with a
four-cylinder gasoline engine. That version of Toyota’s top-
selling light truck, with a 15.9-gallon tank, goes about 380
miles when fully fueled, based on its  EPA rating  of 24 miles per
gallon in combined city and highway driving.  Tesla is producing the motor and battery pack for the
RAV4 EV at its Fremont, California, factory, that formerly was
operated by a Toyota-GM joint venture. Final assembly will be at
Toyota’s Woodstock, Ontario, plant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  