-- P&G’s McDonald Risks Giving Ackman Ammo With Sales Drop
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-08-02T20:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/p-g-s-mcdonald-risks-giving-ackman-ammo-with-sales-drop.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer Bob McDonald risks giving activist investor Bill Ackman
more ammunition to press for management change as the company is
poised to report its first sales drop in more than two years.  P&G, which reports results tomorrow, is projected to post a
2.9 percent decline in revenue to $20.2 billion, according to
the average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Analysts estimate the consumer-products maker’s profit excluding
some items will be 77 cents a share.  A positive surprise would help McDonald make the case his
plan to save $10 billion by 2016 through cuts in jobs, material
expenses and marketing costs is working. The board is monitoring
his plan after he disappointed investors by lowering profit
forecasts three times this year, contributing to a 4.8 percent
drop in P&G’s stock price.  “The questions about leadership will go away if Procter
exceeds on the upside on earnings, revenues and outlook,” said
 Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion, including P&G
shares as a  fund manager  at Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati.
“And until it does, those questions are going to remain.”  Last month, Ackman’s  Pershing Square  took a $1.8 billion
stake in P&G, and people familiar with the matter said he plans
to press for management changes after market-shares losses on
products that include laundry and dish detergent in  North
America . P&G’s board has been dissatisfied with McDonald’s
performance and discussed a possible leadership switch, people
familiar with the situation told Bloomberg last month. The board
later said publicly that it unanimously supports him.  Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G, declined to comment.  Raw Materials  Like  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB)  and  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL) , P&G is
paying more for the  raw materials  used in its products, which
range from shampoos and house cleaners to batteries and pet
foods. The stronger dollar also has reduced the value of their
sales abroad at the same time that economies in  Europe  are
slipping into recession.  P&G hasn’t weathered the storm as well. The company has cut
its profit forecast three times this year, most recently in
June, while Kimberly-Clark and Colgate have managed to stick to
their projections.  Analysts including Citigroup Inc.’s Wendy Nicholson and
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s  Ali Dibadj  chided McDonald during
the company’s April earnings call for making excuses and moving
too slowly.  “I’m just trying to understand how long do you expect
investors to wait?” Dibadj said on the call. “How long does
your current plan have to work? How much patience does the board
have?”  Kimberly-Clark  By contrast, Kimberly-Clark last week said second-quarter
 profit  rose 22 percent to $498 million, helped by sales growth
and cost-cutting. It boosted its adjusted annual profit forecast
by 5 cents to as much as $5.20 a share.  P&G’s shares have been left behind as well, as Colgate
gained 14 percent this year and Kimberly-Clark climbed 18
percent. P&G fell 0.8 percent to $63.51 at the close in  New York 
today.  The performance gap prompted Ackman’s Pershing Square to
make its stake in P&G its largest initial investment ever. He
plans to seek other investors to help push for management
changes or asset sale to boost the shares, according to people
familiar with the matter.  P&G in May sold its Pringles potato-chip business to
 Kellogg Co. (K)  for about $2.7 billion.  ‘Cost-Focused’  McDonald “should have been more cost-focused when he took
over, and I still think there’s more that can be done in that
area, notwithstanding the February announcement,” Dan Popowics,
a portfolio manager at Fifth Third Asset Management in
Cincinnati, said in a telephone interview. His firm holds 1.8
million P&G shares among its $15 billion in assets under
management.  McDonald’s plan may save closer to $4 billion than the
projected $10 billion, Dibadj has estimated. The company has
more room to prune its “convoluted, redundant, heavy
organizational structure,” Dibadj wrote last month. He also
suggested that P&G use some savings to narrow price gaps with
competitors and consider selling some assets or even breaking up
the company.  Investors will give P&G’s management next year to show
progress, and the company likely will address their concerns at
meetings later this year, said  Connie Maneaty , an analyst at BMO
Capital Markets in New York.  ‘Early Days’  “It’s still the early days,” she said. “If truly the
next nine to 12 months don’t show results, then you’ve got a
real great case for CEO change and changes to the board. But I
think it’s premature to expect those things to happen right now
just because of the new involvement of an activist.”  P&G should consider buying back stock to boost the shares,
Don Yacktman, president of Austin, Texas-based Yacktman Asset
Management Co., said in a telephone interview. P&G is the
largest holding for the firm, which has about $17 billion under
management.  “From an investment standpoint, from where we are, the
main driver is the price, and the stock has come down to very
cheap levels,” Yacktman said.  Ackman has a mixed record of forcing change at his targets.
He pushed  Fortune Brands Inc. (FBHS)  to break up, and the company last
year split into spirits maker  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  and a company that sells
home products such as faucets and locks. More than two years
ago, he led a failed effort to get  Target Corp. (TGT)  to sell its card
unit and divest its land holdings into a real estate investment
trust.  More relevant for 59-year-old McDonald, Ackman this year
won an effort to remove  Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  CEO  Fred Green .  “The results are crucial -- I think it’s much like a
primary,” Bahl & Gaynor’s McCormick said. If the results aren’t
good, “Ackman’s supporters will be able to push their argument
more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  