-- Parker Declines Most Since June as Europe Damps Forecast
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-08-02T22:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/parker-declines-most-since-june-as-europe-damps-forecast.html
Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH)  fell the most
in seven weeks after the maker of fluid power systems and air-
conditioning products forecast annual earnings lower than some
analysts’ estimates amid a demand slump in Europe.  The  shares  slid 3.3 percent to $78.85 at the close in  New
York , the largest drop since June 13. That pared the stock’s
gain for the year to 3.4 percent.  Per-share profit for its fiscal year ending June 30 is
expected to be $7.10 to $7.90, Cleveland-based Parker said in a
statement today. The average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg
was for $7.89. The company said its forecast includes increased
pension expenses of 35 cents a share.  “We’ve seen some softness in  Europe  in the latter part of
this year,” Treasurer Pamela Huggins said on a conference call
on fiscal fourth-quarter earnings. “As we head into next year,
we’re going to continue to see that in the first half,” with
some growth after that.  Demand in Europe, the main market for Parker’s Industrial
International unit, has declined because of a debt crisis. The
euro area economy this year is expected to contract 0.4 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Parker in a slide presentation forecast annual sales for
the international unit ranging from a 2 percent decline to a 2
percent gain, while projecting an increase of 5.1 percent to 9.1
percent for the North American industrial unit.  During the fourth quarter, the international unit’s revenue
fell 10 percent to $1.24 billion from a year earlier. Parker
reported  earnings  per share of $1.96 for the quarter, beating
the $1.91 average of 14 estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  