-- Patriot Coal Judge Says She’s Prepared to Approve Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-08-02T21:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/patriot-coal-judge-says-she-s-prepared-to-approve-loan.html
Patriot (PCXCQ)  Coal Corp.’s bankruptcy judge
said she plans to approve an amended version of an $802 million
loan agreement that will help the coal producer fund operations
while it tries to reorganize.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  today
reviewed last-minute changes to the agreement after Marshall Huebner, a lawyer for St. Louis-based Patriot, said talks with
lenders led to an interest-rate reduction of 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, for a portion of the loan.  “Lower  interest rates , lower fees to extend the loan, and
a partial rebate are coming to the debtor,” Huebner, with the
law firm Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, told Chapman.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp . all
agreed to cut their fees for the loan, Huebner said. Chapman
said her approval is conditional upon the lenders’ completing
syndication of the loan, which Huebner said is expected within
48 hours.  The loan already had been provisionally approved in July by
another judge who was filling in for Chapman. Patriot sought
 bankruptcy protection  July 9 after milder winters, stricter
clean-air rules, and a shift to natural gas by power producers
sent U.S. coal demand to a 24-year low.  ‘Strong Competitor’  The company intends to “emerge as a viable and strong
competitor in the coal industry,” Chief Financial Officer Mark Schroeder has said in court papers. Patriot needs to trim labor
costs because of declining prices and demand for coal, along
with regulations that will require the company to spend hundreds
of millions of dollars on water-treatment facilities and pension
benefits in coming years, he said.  Separately, Chapman today approved requests by Patriot to
continue to manage its cash, pay employee wages and customer
obligations, and take other steps necessary to run its business
while in bankruptcy.  Patriot has 12 active mining complexes in Appalachia and
the Illinois Basin and controls an estimated 1.9 billion tons of
coal reserves, according to court papers. It sells thermal coal
to electricity generators and metallurgical coal to steel and
coke producers.  The case is In re Patriot Coal Corp., 12-bk-12900,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  