-- Penn State Loses Top Scorer as Kicker Anthony Fera Leaves Team
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-02T16:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/penn-state-loses-top-scorer-as-kicker-anthony-fera-leaves-team.html
Pennsylvania State University ’s
football team has lost its top two scorers from last season in
the past two days, as starting kicker and punter Anthony Fera
became the most recent player to leave the program.  Fera’s departure comes a day after running back Silas Redd
transferred to the  University of Southern California . Fera and
Redd combined for 104 of the Nittany Lions’  251 points  last
season, with Fera making 14 of 17 field-goal attempts while
earning second-team All-Big Ten honors as a punter.  Fera, who is from Cypress, Texas, has committed to transfer
to the University of Texas, ESPN reported.  Penn State  athletic
department spokesman  Jeff Nelson  said in an e-mail that Fera is
no longer on the Nittany Lions’ roster.  Fera’s exit brings to six the number of football players
who have left Penn State since the school was hit with sanctions
from the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  that include a
four-year bowl ban. The program also lost 20 scholarships
annually after the NCAA determined school officials tried to
cover up child abuse by former assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky. The NCAA said it would allow any entering or returning
Penn State football player to transfer to another school and
play immediately.  Louisiana State coach Les Miles said yesterday that former
Penn State backup quarterback Rob Bolden was joining the Tigers.
Miles said a roster spot opened when recruit Jeremy Liggins
failed to qualify academically.  “We recruited him several years ago,” Miles said of
Bolden. “Three months ago or so, he contacted us by way of his
high school coach and said he was thinking about transferring
irrespective of what’s going on.”  Linebacker Khairi Fortt also said yesterday he’d  transfer 
to the University of California-Berkeley from Penn State.  Penn State has also had safety Tim Buckley transfer to
North Carolina State and junior tight end Kevin Haplea leave for
Florida State.  ESPN reported  that a Penn State recruit,
defensive lineman Jamil Pollard from West Deptford, New Jersey,
will go to  Rutgers University .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  