-- Pennsylvania’s New Voter ID Law Unnecessary, Lawyer Says
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-02T18:45:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/pennsylvania-s-new-voter-id-law-unnecessary-lawyer-says-1-.html
Pennsylvania has no valid reason for
implementing a new voter law requiring photo identification to
cast a ballot, a lawyer for the  American Civil Liberties Union 
said.  The law, enacted in March, unduly burdens and
disproportionately affects minorities, the poor and the elderly,
Witold Walczak, an attorney for the ACLU of Pennsylvania, said
on the final day of a weeklong trial in Commonwealth Court in
Harrisburg.  “The right to vote is not only fundamental, it’s
foundational,” Walczak told Judge Robert E. Simpson. “Without
the right to vote all other rights are in peril.”  The ACLU is asking Simpson to block the law pending a final
court decision. The judge said he will rule on Pennsylvania’s
law during the week of Aug. 13.  Pennsylvania, one of nine states that passed strict laws
requiring a photo ID to vote, has become a test case in the
voter eligibility debate after a tally by the state suggested as
much as 9 percent of its electorate may be denied a chance to
cast a ballot in the presidential election.  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, won Pennsylvania with
55 percent of the vote in 2008, winning by 620,478 votes, fewer
than the number who may be barred from the polls on Nov. 6.  ‘Neutral’ Law  Patrick Cawley, an attorney for the state, argued that the
law is “neutral and non-discriminatory” and it’s “highly
unlikely” any widespread disenfranchisement will occur in
November.  The ACLU, which sued along with 10 state voters, has shown
“no concrete evidence that Act 18 will deprive anyone of equal
protection,” Cawley told Simpson.  Backed by Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican, the state’s
law requires voters to have a driver’s license or another ID
issued by the state’s Department of Transportation, a state ID
or an acceptable alternative such as a military ID, to cast a
ballot in the presidential election. Similar measures in
Republican-led states have drawn criticism from Democrats, who
say they disenfranchise minority, poor and young voters.  About 1.5 million prospective voters lack the type of
identification needed to cast ballots in November’s election,
David Burgess, deputy secretary for planning and service
delivery at  Pennsylvania ’s Department of State, testified during
the trial.  Lacking ID  More than 889,000 names on voter registration lists
couldn’t be matched to records of the Pennsylvania Department of
Transportation, which issues photo IDs. Another 574,630 voters
had expired PennDOT identification, Burgess said.  Secretary of State Carol Aichele said the state had
expected fewer than 100,000 people to lack the proper
identification required by the law. An initial projection by the
state showing 759,000 people without either a driver’s license
or alternative state ID was compiled in less than 24 hours by a
staffer and isn’t accurate, Aichele said.  “The commonwealth frankly really has no idea and they’ve
not made a serious effort to find out” an exact number, Walczak
said.  Pennsylvania officials had argued that the law would help
stem voter fraud while later saying they weren’t aware of any
incidents of in-person voter fraud in the state.  ‘Partisan Gain’  “There is some evidence of an illicit interest,” Walczak
said. “There is partisan gain at issue.”  Cawley disputed those claims, arguing that the state
legislature had valid reasons for implementing the law,
including modernizing elections and enhancing public confidence
in the process.  “The legislature is uniquely qualified to regulate
elections and has wide discretion when doing so,” Cawley said.  The  Justice Department  is investigating whether
Pennsylvania’s law violates Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act,
which prohibits states from enacting a voting standard that
discriminates against minorities. In a July 23 letter to
Aichele, the department asked to review the state’s voter
registration lists in addition to driver’s license and personal
identification card rosters.  The Justice Department has blocked voter-ID laws in  Texas 
and  South Carolina , states that need permission from the
government under Section 5 of the voting act before changing
election procedures because of their history of voting rights
violations. A panel of three federal judges heard the Texas case
in  Washington  last month. A hearing in South Carolina’s case is
scheduled for later this month.  Wisconsin ’s voter ID law was declared unconstitutional by a
state court judge in March. The state is appealing the decision.  The case is Applewhite v. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
330 MD 2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania (Harrisburg)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Harrisburg at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  