-- Peregrine CFTC Case Judge Declines to Hear Clients’ Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-02T20:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/peregrine-cftc-case-judge-declines-to-hear-clients-suit.html
Nine Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
clients lost a bid to have their group lawsuit heard by the same
judge who is presiding over an action filed against the failed
firm by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in  Chicago  today
denied the request by Hong Kong-based Power Vanguard Ltd. and
other customers, who sued on July 20.  Pallmeyer rejected the argument from Claire Gorman Kenny, a
Power Vanguard attorney, that while her clients’ case was
procedurally different from the CFTC lawsuit, they shared a
common nucleus of facts.  “I’m disinclined,” Pallmeyer said before denying the
motion outright. Kenny’s request was opposed by the CFTC and by
an attorney for another group of Peregrine clients who filed a
similar lawsuit on July 13.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 liquidation in U.S.
 Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago on July 10, hours after the CFTC
filed its lawsuit accusing the firm and founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. of misappropriating more than $200 million in
customer funds.  Wasendorf has been charged with lying to federal officials
and is in U.S. custody. His criminal case is pending in  Cedar
Rapids ,  Iowa . The firm’s headquarters was in nearby  Cedar Falls .  Third Suit  Power Vanguard and its co-plaintiffs sued Wasendorf and
other Peregrine executives, including firm President and Chief
Operating Officer Russell Wasendorf Jr., for allegedly
commingling firm and client funds.  Their lawsuit, the third of three now pending in federal
court in Chicago, seeks class status for 24,000 similarly
situated businesses and individuals.  Jeffrey Salas, the attorney who filed the first of the
proposed class actions, on July 31 told U.S. District Judge
Sharon Johnson Coleman that all three cases should be
consolidated before her. He opposed Power Vanguard’s motion.  Coleman directed Kenny and attorney Matthew Herman, who
represents yet another group of clients, to file reply briefs by
tomorrow.  Pallmeyer last month appointed Michael Eidelman as receiver
for Wasendorf, assigning him to marshal the founder’s assets for
the benefit of his creditors.  All civil actions against Wasendorf must be halted,
Eidelman’s attorney, Cindy Stuyvesant, told Coleman on July 31.  ‘Best Way’  “If there’s any money to be gotten, it’s the best way to
do it,” Stuyvesant told Coleman and customers’ lawyers that
day. Power Vanguard’s complaint acknowledges the stay of
lawsuits against the elder Wasendorf.  Chicago attorney Nicholas P. Iavarone is counsel to Russell
Wasendorf Jr., who is a defendant in all three customer cases.  While he hasn’t made an appearance in any of the suits
pending in the Chicago federal court, Iavarone said in a
telephone interview today that his client has been subpoenaed to
appear before a federal grand jury in Cedar Rapids.  “He has been subpoenaed and he is cooperating,” Iavarone
said. “That’s as much as I can say.”  The bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-
27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago). The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine  Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago). The
criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The client cases are LaSalvia v. Wasendorf, 12-cv-05546;
Wolinsky v. Wasendorf, 12-cv-5624; and Power Vanguard Ltd v.
Wasendorf, 12cv5727, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  