-- Petrobras Hurt by Transocean Rig Loss in Brazilian Court
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-08-02T18:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/petrobras-hurt-by-transocean-rig-loss-in-brazilian-court.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA is likely to
lose 11 percent of its drilling fleet because  Brazil  banned
 Transocean (RIG)  Ltd. from tapping deep-water fields, the latest
misstep hindering the development of  Latin America ’s biggest oil
discoveries since 1976.  A Brazilian court on July 31 ordered Transocean, the
world’s biggest offshore drilling contractor, to halt operations
within 30 days after one of its rigs was involved in a spill at
the Frade offshore field operated by Chevron Corp. The ban
threatens to shut down 7 of the 66 Petrobras rigs drilling off
the coast of the South American nation that is home to more than
50 billion barrels of crude oil.  Petrobras, as the state-controlled producer is known, cut
output growth targets in a $236.5 billion investment plan
announced in June, partly because of delays in acquiring
equipment needed to drill deep-water wells. The Rio de Janeiro-
based company is set to report tomorrow a 70 percent drop in
second-quarter adjusted  profit  after it missed production goals,
according to the median estimate of 10 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Transocean is “one of the key rig suppliers for
Petrobras,”  Scott Gruber , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “It would
further put at risk their already revised production targets
going forward.”  Track Record  Petrobras has missed  output goals  for at least the past
eight years as production from its deep-water discoveries failed
to compensate for faster-than-expected declines at older fields
in Brazil’s offshore Campos Basin. The company, which forecasts
its output to remain little changed through the end of 2013, has
a track record of missing project deadlines as requirements to
purchase goods and services from local suppliers contribute to
delays, Chief Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said on
June 25 when presenting the company’s five-year investment plan
to investors and analysts.  Chevron (CVX)  -- the second-biggest U.S. oil company, which was
also ordered by a regional federal court to halt operations --
plans to appeal the injunction and is preparing to resume
production at Frade, the company said yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions. Transocean will use “every legal means
necessary” to prove that the case has no merit, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Petrobras didn’t reply to a phone
call and e-mail seeking comments.  ‘Underwater’ Targets  Magda Chambriard, the head of Brazil’s oil regulator ANP,
said July 19 that Transocean had no role in the Frade spills and
that the agency was in talks with Chevron to resume output. The
Brazilian court said the suspension of operations will last
until the federal prosecutor’s office, the oil regulator and
environmental agencies complete investigations into the spill.  “In the end, if they make such a big deal about it, it’s
Brazil that’s going to get hurt,” Cleveland Jones, an oil
specialist and geology professor at  Rio de Janeiro  State
University, said in a telephone interview yesterday. “Petrobras
is already under the gun from missed production targets. If
something like this were to hit they’d be underwater for sure.”  Chevron and Transocean are also fighting two lawsuits
seeking as much as 40 billion reais ($19.6 billion) in damages
related to the spills. Petrobras may be liable for 30 percent of
any damages Chevron must pay at Frade because it’s a minority
partner in the field, Petrobras said in a March 30 filing.  Giant Fields  The discovery of giant fields in Brazil’s so-called pre-
salt region, an area the size of  Florida  in deep waters off the
coast of southern Brazil, propelled Petrobras to become the
second-most expensive major energy producer in the world in 2008
at 17 times reported profit, according to data compiled to
Bloomberg. Since then, Petrobras has slipped to 10th place at a
ratio of about eight times earnings, the data show.  Petrobras has lost 14 percent for investors this year in
U.S. dollar terms, the worst performance by a global  oil company 
with a market value of more than $50 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Colombia ’s Ecopetrol SA returned 40
percent while Cnooc Ltd. and Chevron registered 16 percent and
5.6 percent returns, respectively.  Petrobras fell 0.7 percent to 19.69 reais at 3:07 p.m. in
Sao Paulo trading.  Lost Output  Petrobras has already lost production this year due to the
shutdown of Frade, which pumped 60,000 barrels a day.  The company will take steps to prevent a rig shortage as a
result of the court ruling, said Wagner Freire, a former
Petrobras director. Petrobras has 66 rigs in Brazil, according
to Rigzone, a website that monitors global oil drilling.  “This decision will raise a lot of questions, mainly from
 Petrobras (PETR4) ,” Freire, who was in charge of Petrobras’s
exploration and production division from 1985 to 1990, said in a
telephone interview. “Petrobras is going to complain because
you can’t stop” drilling, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  