-- Philadelphia Seeks Court Relief From Firefighter Pay Award
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-08-02T01:24:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/philadelphia-seeks-court-relief-from-firefighter-pay-award-1-.html
Philadelphia asked a judge to
overturn a firefighters’ contract-arbitration award after
officials said the fifth-biggest U.S. city can’t afford the cost
of more than $200 million.  “The city does not have the money to pay for this award,
those costs would be borne by the taxpayers in the form of
service cuts if the award were allowed to stand,” the city said
today in a filing in state court in Philadelphia.  Mayor Michael Nutter contested the findings of a three-
member arbitration panel which concluded July 2 that the city
could afford annual raises of 3 percent for three years,
retroactive to July 2010. One  quarter  of the city’s residents
live in poverty, which is twice the state’s rate. The city’s
school district has said it may close a fourth of its public
schools by 2017 to cut costs.  “Even with the benefit of hindsight and undisputed
financial data, the panel inexplicably ignored the economic
reality of the city’s financial condition,” the city said in
court papers.  The burden of personnel expenses shouldered by Philadelphia
taxpayers also bears down on cities across the U.S. as revenue
has failed to keep pace with labor costs. A  National League of
Cities  survey in 2010 showed 79 percent of municipalities cited
increasing employee-pension expenses as a source of budget
pressure, up from 61 percent in a 2003 survey.  Uniformed Personnel  The arbitration award covers 2,100 uniformed personnel.  “The city doesn’t respect us,” Bill Gault, president of
Local 22 of the International Association of Fire Fighters, said
July 30 in a phone interview. “What good is a city without
public safety?”  Philadelphia has raised property taxes in each of the past
three years. Gault said his union’s workers haven’t received a
pay increase in four years. From 2008 to 2012, U.S. consumer
prices rose almost 8 percent, according to a Federal Reserve
Bank of Minneapolis inflation  calculator .  Pennsylvania lawmakers gave Philadelphia the authority to
increase local sales taxes to pay for critical services, state
Senator Mike Stack, a Democrat from the city, said July 30 in a
letter to Nutter asking him to drop his appeal and implement the
award. Stack also pointed to $515 million in delinquent property
levies owed to the city and annual savings of about $14.5
million Nutter made by closing firehouses.  Emergency Services  “We cannot afford a weakening of our  emergency services ,”
Stack said in the letter. “Fire safety is an area that we must
preserve and strengthen.”  The union sued July 17, asking a judge to force the city to
implement the award.  Philadelphia officials aren’t maintaining any reserves for
raises and anticipate spending $1.3 billion on wages each year
through fiscal 2017, according to a plan sent to the
Pennsylvania Intergovernmental Cooperation Authority. The agency
oversees the city’s finances.  The award would “blow up” this year’s budget and set a
precedent for other unions to pursue similar deals, Sam Katz,
chairman of the authority, said before the city’s latest appeal.  The case is City of Philadelphia v. International
Association of Fire Fighters Local 22, Case ID: 120704490, Court
of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  