-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says World in Serious Slowdown
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-08-02T19:54:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/pimco-s-el-erian-says-world-in-serious-slowdown.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian called recent declines in purchasing manager
indexes in  Europe  and  Asia  “frightening” and said the world
economy is suffering its severest slowdown since the global
recession ended in 2009.  El-Erian, who is chief executive officer of the  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, predicted global growth of 2.25
percent over the next 12 months. That’s down from the 3.9
percent in 2011 and 5.3 percent in 2010 recorded by the
 International Monetary Fund . The world economy contracted 0.6
percent in 2009.  “This is a serious, synchronized slowdown,” El-Erian said
in an interview today.  His forecast highlights the troubles the global economy is
facing as the euro area struggles to contain its debt crisis and
growth in the U.S. and  China  slows. Separate surveys of
 purchasing managers  released yesterday showed manufacturing in
the 17-nation euro area shrinking by the most in 37 months while
Chinese factories teetered on the edge of contraction.  The global slowdown is weighing on the U.S. at a time when
its economy is already struggling, El-Erian said. He sees U.S.
growth of 1.5 percent over the next 12 months, dangerously close
to what may be considered “stall speed,” and puts the odds of
an American recession at roughly 25 to 33 percent.  “While a recession is not my baseline forecast, it
certainly is a serious risk,” said El-Erian, whose firm manages
the world’s largest bond fund.  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy slowed last quarter as consumers curbed
their spending while state and local governments cut back. Gross
domestic product expanded at a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter, down from 2 percent in the first, according to
Commerce Department data.  El-Erian said he expects the euro area’s economy to
contract by 1.5 percent over the coming year. It grew 1.5
percent in 2011, according to the Washington-based IMF.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said at a
press conference in  Frankfurt  today that the region’s economy
looks to have stayed weak in the second quarter and into the
third after being essentially flat in the first three months of
the year.  He told reporters that the central bank may wade forcefully
into bond markets in tandem with Europe’s rescue fund, stepping
up its efforts to fight the area’s financial crisis.  The euro declined and Spanish bond yields rose on
disappointment that Draghi didn’t signal imminent ECB action.  El-Erian said that Draghi had good reasons to postpone
action. The ECB chief wants to pressure governments into taking
more steps on their own to resolve the crisis and may want to
conserve the central bank’s limited resources.  Draghi, though, risks allowing the crisis to worsen by not
acting now, El-Erian suggested.  “When they act in a month’s time, they will be less
effective than if they acted today,” he said.  He put the odds of the currency zone breaking apart over
the next six months at 35 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  