-- Gilts Rise as ECB Measures Disappoint; Pound Gains Versus Euro
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-02T15:33:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/pound-rises-after-boe-holds-stimulus-keeps-rate-at-record-low.html
U.K. government bonds  rose after
European Central Bank president  Mario Draghi  failed to announce
measures that investors and analysts consider sufficient to stem
the debt crisis, stoking demand for perceived haven assets.  Two-year note yields  fell to a record after the ECB said it
may undertake open-market operations to stem rising Spanish and
Italian borrowing costs. The  Bank of England  left its asset-
buying program, known as quantitative easing, at 375 billion
pounds ($581.6 billion) and kept  interest rates  on hold. The
pound rose against the euro.  “The market was pricing in something significant from
Draghi and he failed to deliver, hence we are back to the good
old trades of going long the core rates markets, including
gilts,” said Anthony O’Brien, a fixed-income strategist at
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  in London.  Two-year yields fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 0.06 percent at 4:24 p.m. London time after sliding
six basis points to 0.033 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg
began tracking the data in 1992.  Ten-year yields fell seven basis points to 1.45 percent,
after dropping to a record 1.407 percent on July 23.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi signaled the
ECB intends to join forces with governments to buy bonds in
sufficient quantities to ease the region’s debt crisis, while
conceding that  Germany ’s Bundesbank has reservations about the
plan. Draghi pledged last week to do “whatever it takes” to
save the euro, fueling expectations for imminent large scale
bond-buying.  BOE Decisions  U.K. gilts returned 3.9 percent this year, after surging 17
percent in 2011 as investors sought a haven from the euro-
region’s debt crisis, indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies showed.
German bunds gained 3.6 percent in 2012, with U.S. Treasuries
earning 2.6 percent.  The pound rose 0.5 percent to 78.29 pence per euro after
earlier losing 0.5 percent to the least in three weeks at 79.12
pence. It slid 0.2 percent to $1.5503 after rising as much as
0.9 percent to $1.5679.  Sterling has depreciated 1.3 percent in the past three
months, the fourth-worst performer among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes
amid the deteriorating economy. The dollar gained 3.6 percent,
while the euro slid 5.3 percent.  Key Rate  U.K. policy makers maintained their key rate at a record-
low 0.5 percent, as predicted by all 53 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The central bank increased its bond purchases by
50 billion pounds last month to boost a U.K. economy in its
first double-dip recession since the 1970s amid a deepening
euro-region debt crisis.  “The Bank of England put in place their quantitative
easing measures very recently and it would undermine their
credibility to come up with more measures based on weak data
just before the meeting,” said  Neil Mellor , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of  New York  In London.  The median forecast of 40 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
was for asset purchases to be maintained. One analyst predicted
an increase to 400 billion pounds.  The Bank of England has expanded its toolkit with a Funding
for Lending Scheme to unclog bank credit and help pull the
country out of recession. The worsening outlook prompted banks
including Morgan Stanley and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to revise forecasts
this week and predict more U.K. stimulus later this year.  The U.K. economy shrank the most since 2009 in the second
quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said on July 25.
Manufacturing contracted the most in more than three years in
July, Markit Economics reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in  London  at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  