-- Prosecutors Start Criminal Probe Into Fukushima Nuclear Accident
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-08-02T05:21:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/prosecutors-start-criminal-probe-into-fukushima-nuclear-accident.html
Fukushima prosecutors began a
criminal investigation into last year’s nuclear-plant accident
after more than 1,300 residents filed a complaint against
executives of Tokyo Electric Power Co. including former Chairman
 Tsunehisa Katsumata .  The Fukushima City prosecutor yesterday accepted the
complaint and will start a probe to determine whether there was
professional negligence in Japan’s worst civil nuclear-plant
accident, an official at the office said, who declined to be
named in line with policy.  “Our complaint includes professional negligence resulting
in bodily injury by  radiation exposure  and the death of hospital
inpatients during transfer from Futaba Hospital” near the
Fukushima plant, said Ikuo Yasuda, who runs his own law office
and represents the residents. Yasuda confirmed the complaint was
accepted yesterday by the Fukushima District Public Prosecutors
Office.  Tokyo Electric said it hadn’t been informed by prosecutors
that a complaint against former executives was accepted. “We
can’t comment on this because we don’t know the complaint’s
content,” Jun Oshima, a Tokyo-based spokesman for the utility,
said by phone.  Prosecutors are taking up the case after completion of
independent investigation reports. One published in July led by
 University of Tokyo  Professor Kiyoshi Kurokawa, said “man-
made” failures led to the nuclear disaster last year. The
direct causes of the accident were all foreseeable, the report
said, but Tokyo Electric, regulators and the ministry of economy
trade and industry overseeing the industry failed to develop
basic safety requirements.  Not Foreseeable?  The Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and its six reactors run by
the utility known as Tepco was hit by a magnitude 9 earthquake
at 2:46 p.m. on March 11, 2011 that knocked out mains power for
cooling reactors. The 15-meter tsunami that followed destroyed
electrical equipment and flooded basements with seawater that
disabled back-up generators.  Hydrogen explosions then blew out reactor buildings and
three reactors had meltdowns, releasing radiation and forcing
the mass evacuation of 160,000 people from areas of land that
will be uninhabitable for decades.  Tepco’s own research showed the plant might be subject to a
tsunami of more than 10 meters and its executives knew of that
data, the utility said last August, contradicting earlier claims
by former President Masataka Shimizu and other officials that
such a disaster was unforeseeable.  Lacks Enthusiasm  Another independent investigation of the disaster was led
by University of Tokyo engineering professor Yotaro Hatamura and
echoed the findings of the Kurokawa report. Besides a failure of
disaster management and risk analysis, the utility lacks
“sufficient enthusiasm to fully investigate the Fukushima
disaster and learn lessons to prevent recurrence even more than
one year after the accident,” according to the report released
on July 23.  “After accepting the complaint, prosecutors are now
required to begin an investigation,” said Yasuda, the lawyer
representing the Fukushima residents. “They have to decide
whether to seek an indictment and if they decide to drop the
case, we will appeal.”  The residential group named Fukushima Nuclear-Plant
Plaintiffs filed the complaint on June 11, naming at least 33
individuals, including former Tepco president Shimizu, the head
of the  Japan  Atomic Energy Commission Shunsuke Kondo and Haruki Madarame, the head of the Nuclear Safety Commission, Machiko
Furukawa, an official at the group, said by telephone today.  Utility executives neglected to take proper protective
measures against a tsunami at the Dai-Ichi plant, according to a
copy of the complaint obtained by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in 東京 at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  