-- Putin, Cameron Signal Little Progress on Syria in London Talks
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-02T16:20:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/putin-cameron-signal-little-progress-on-syria-in-london-talks.html
Russian President  Vladimir Putin  and
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  held talks in London today
that highlighted divisions over how to end the bloodshed in
Syria.  “Of course there have been some differences in the
positions we’ve taken over the Syrian conflict,” Cameron told
reporters after the meeting at his Downing Street office. “We
both want to see an end to that conflict and a stable Syria, and
we’ll continue to discuss, with our foreign ministers, how we
can take this agenda forward.”  Russia prompted condemnation last month when along with
China it refused to back a resolution at the  United Nations 
aimed at increasing pressure on Syrian President Bashar al Assad
to go. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  called the decision
“inexcusable and indefensible.”  Kofi Annan , the UN special
envoy to Syria, resigned today after failing in his peace
efforts to end the 17-month crisis.  “We made note of the fact that there are some things on
which we see eye-to-eye, and we agreed to continue working to
find a viable solution on that matter,” Putin, who is on his
first visit to Britain for seven years, said through an
interpreter.  Following their 45-minute meeting, the two leaders
travelled in separate convoys to east London watch the final
stages of the Olympics judo competition.  Cameron joked that he was glad to be taking Putin, who
holds a black belt in the martial art, to watch the sport and
not to take part. Earlier London Mayor  Boris Johnson  joked that
Putin might want to join in the judo.  ‘Stripped to the Waist’  “I hope he will take part -- isn’t he a dab hand?”
Johnson told reporters. “I think that’s what people want to see
-- stripped to the waist. We want the politicians’ Olympics,
that’s what we want.”  Cameron said his talks with Putin had focused on boosting
trade and that the two countries would seek further cooperation
on areas including  energy supply .  Cameron briefly broached the issue of human rights concerns
over the case of a Russian all-female punk group facing seven
years in jail for a political protest act inside a Moscow
cathedral, a spokesman for the U.K. premier said.  Diplomatic relations between the U.K. and Russia
deteriorated over the 2006 death of dissident ex-Russian
security agent  Alexander Litvinenko  in London.  Litvinenko, a Kremlin critic who died after being poisoned
with the radioactive isotope polonium-210, blamed Putin for the
murder in a death-bed statement, an accusation the Kremlin
called “absurd.” Russia has refused requests from Britain for
the extradition of the chief suspect in the case, ex
KGB agent Andrei Lugovoi. He denies any wrongdoing.  ‘Major Problem’  Leaders of the two countries didn’t meet for five years
until Cameron visited Moscow last year, saying differences must
be set aside to boost trade. Intelligence cooperation remains
suspended as a result of Litvinenko’s killing.  Speaking to  Sky News  today, Cameron said Britain had not
softened its stance over the Litvinenko case, which he described
as a “major problem,” but that it should not stand in the way
of progress in other areas, including efforts to end the
violence in Syria.  “That part of the relationship has not thawed and will not
thaw,” he said.  Putin, who became president for a third time in May, was
last in Britain for the Group of Eight summit in Gleneagles,
 Scotland , in 2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: In Parliament
on 
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  