-- Rabobank Sees U.S. Soybean Production at 2.8 Billion Bushels
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-08-02T16:48:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/rabobank-sees-u-s-soybean-production-at-2-8-billion-bushels-1-.html
U.S. soybean production may drop to
2.8 billion bushels or less, down 7 percent from a year earlier,
as heat and drought persist in the Midwest, Rabobank
International said.  U.S. soybean yields may average 38 bushels an acre, analyst
Erin FitzPatrick said today in an e-mailed report. The
Department of Agriculture, which will update crop forecasts on
Aug. 10, said last month the domestic harvest may total 3.05
billion bushels with yields of 40.5 bushels an acre.  Soybeans surged 15 percent last month, touching a record
$16.915 a bushel on July 23, amid the worst U.S. drought since
1956. Fifty-five percent of the crop has reached the pod-setting
stage, meaning “we are in the midst of the critical yield-
determining phase of the crop,” according to FitzPatrick.  “The U.S. drought continues to intensify, which is likely
to cause soybean supplies to fall below current market
expectations and push prices higher,” she said. “The window of
opportunity for an improvement in conditions to prevent further
yield loss is rapidly coming to an end.”  $20 a Bushel?  The oilseed may “easily” climb above $20 a bushel in the
second half, according to FitzPatrick. Futures for November
delivery traded at $16.175 on the Chicago Board of Trade by 5:18
p.m. London time.  Global soybean trade has reached “an unsustainable pace”
after drought last year in  South America  reduced world supplies,
the analyst said. Brazil and  Argentina , the largest global
exporters after the U.S., may have less than 10 million metric
tons of soybeans available to ship before their next harvest in
seven months, she said.  Soybean  production  in Brazil and Argentina may climb 30
percent in the next season to a combined 135 million tons as
farmers boost acres to capitalize on higher prices, FitzPatrick
said. Both countries may plant record amounts of the oilseed,
which costs 65 percent less to grow than corn and is free from
export quotas, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  