-- Rand Declines for Fourth Day as ECB Fails to Reassure Investors
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-08-02T13:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/rand-declines-for-fourth-day-as-ecb-fails-to-reassure-investors.html
The rand weakened for a fourth day,
reversing earlier gains, after European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors he was ready to take
immediate steps to support the region’s debt crisis.  South Africa’s currency retreated 0.5 percent to 8.3876 per
dollar as of 3:42 p.m. in Johannesburg after strengthening as
much as 1.2 percent. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due 2021
climbed two basis points to 6.68 percent.  Draghi, who pledged last week to do “whatever it takes”
to preserve the euro, said policy makers may undertake open
market operations and that high yields were unacceptable, after
the ECB kept its main rate at 0.75 percent. He didn’t announce
any immediate steps. The  Federal Reserve  signaled its readiness
to support the  U.S. economy  even as it refrained from adding to
bond purchases yesterday.  “What was the market expecting? More, obviously,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research at
Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. “The
market was building itself up for a let-down.”  Emerging-market stocks  extended declines and commodity
prices fell, driving the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index to the
lowest level in almost three weeks.  South Africa ’s benchmark
stock  index  reversed gains as the prices of commodity exporters
including Anglo American Plc tumbled.  Draghi signaled the bank will join forces with governments
to buy sovereign bonds in sufficient quantities to remove all
doubts about the future of the euro. Any bond purchases will be
conducted in a way to soothe investors’ concerns about
seniority, Draghi said at a press conference in Frankfurt today.  Metals and other raw materials accounted for 45 percent of
South Africa’s exports in 2011, according to government data.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “will provide additional
accommodation as needed to promote a stronger economic recovery
and sustained improvement in labor market conditions in a
context of  price stability ,” it said in a statement at the end
of a two-day meeting in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  