-- Raytheon, Lockheed See Gains in $604.5 Bln Senate Defense
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-03T20:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/raytheon-gains-in-604-5-billion-senate-defense-bill.html
(Corrects story published Aug. 2 to add Lockheed Martin in
first paragraph and report in second paragraph that it gained
$194.2 million from the Patriot-3 addition by Senate committee.)  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , the top U.S. maker of
military missiles, and No. 1 overall defense contractor  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT)  saw millions of dollars added to their programs as
part of a $604.5 billion defense budget request approved today
by the Senate Appropriations Committee.  The panel endorsed adding $194 million to buy 50 more
 Patriot-3  missile defense interceptors made by Bethesda,
Maryland-based Lockheed Martin.  The committee added $163 million to purchase a second
mobile air defense radar known as the  AN/TPY-2  made by  Waltham,
Massachusetts-based Raytheon.  It also added $5 million more than the Pentagon requested
for Raytheon’s Tomahawk cruise missiles, though it cut $17
million from a $381.7 million Defense Department request for 89
additional Raytheon Standard Missile-6 weapons, citing unit cost
increases and testing issues.  The $604.5 billion bill also includes war spending for
Afghanistan. On July 19, the  House of Representatives  passed
legislation giving the Pentagon $607.1 billion in the 2013
fiscal year for weapons purchases, personnel and war operations
in Afghanistan, or about $2 billion more than the Obama
administration requested. The Senate version matches the White
House request. A floor vote hasn’t been scheduled.  Army aviation accounts also benefited as the appropriations
panel added $700 million to replace combat losses, money that
benefits helicopter makers Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
Stratford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)   More Jets  The panel backed roughly the full $9.1 billion request for
Lockheed Martin for 29 F-35 jet fighters and added $777 million
for a second Virginia-class submarine to be bought in 2014 and
built by  Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc. (HII)  of Newport News,
Virginia, and  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  of Falls Church, Virginia.
The House bill contains similar submarine funding.  The committee cut from the Army’s request to $190 million
from $287.3 million for the General Dynamics infantry
“Manpack” radio.  The committee said the program was requesting more money
than could be justified before testing of the radio is complete.
The Pentagon’s testing office in a July 20 assessment criticized
the radio as ineffective, unreliable and requiring more testing.  After the Senate votes, its version and the House bill will
have to be reconciled in a conference committee before both
houses vote on a bill to be sent to President  Barack Obama  for
his signature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  