-- Treasuries Fluctuate as ECB Maintains Interest Rate
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-08-02T11:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/treasuries-stay-lower-as-fed-doesn-t-increase-stimulus.html
Treasuries fluctuated after the
 European Central Bank  refrained from cutting  interest rates 
before U.S. reports that economists said will show claims for
jobless benefits increased while the unemployment held steady.  U.S. government securities due in 10 years and longer
returned 9.5 percent in the past three months, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies. The gain was the most among 144 debt indexes
around the world after accounting for changes in bond prices and
currencies, reflecting demand for the relative safety of  U.S.
debt  due to slowing economic growth and Europe’s financial
crisis. The European Central Bank is scheduled to meet today.  “Treasury yields are likely to stay low, at least in the
near term,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee about $115
billion as a  money manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.
“There have been a number of economic false dawns. Despite some
recovery, the underlying trend of the  U.S. economy  remains
pretty weak.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.53
percent at 7:51 a.m. in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 traded at
102 1/32. The yield increased six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, yesterday. It dropped to a record 1.379
percent on July 25.  ECB Decision  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt left the benchmark
rate at a record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by 51 of 55
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Four predicted a cut to
0.50 percent. The deposit rate was held at zero. Central bank
President  Mario Draghi  faces holds a press conference at 2:30
p.m. in Frankfurt.  The U.S. economy added 100,000 workers last month,
following a gain of 80,000 in June, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists before tomorrow’s Labor Department report.
The  jobless rate  will stay at 8.2 percent, according to
economists. It has been more than 8 percent since February 2009.
ADP Employer Services said yesterday the nation added more
workers last month than economists forecast.  U.S. claims for jobless benefits rose to 370,000 last week
from 353,000, based on responses from economists, before the
Labor Department figure today. A separate report may show growth
in factory orders slowed.  Gains in Treasuries were tempered amid speculation the
euro-region’s bailout fund will have access to the ECB’s cash.
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said today the European
Stability Mechanism would gain access to the money through a
bank license.  German Outlook  Germany  retained a stable outlook for its top credit score
at  Standard & Poor’s , the ratings company announced today, just
over a week after Moody’s Investors Service warned that the
nation’s Aaa grade was at risk.  Moody’s on July 23 lowered the outlook for the credit
ratings of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative,
citing “rising uncertainty” over Europe’s debt woes.  Demand for German bonds as a haven has pushed yields on
two-year notes down to negative 0.086 percent. Investors require
32 basis points of additional  yield  to buy same-maturity
Treasuries, the biggest difference in two years.  Treasuries fell yesterday after the  Federal Reserve 
refrained from boosting monetary stimulus while indicating a
sluggish economy may prompt further steps to spur growth.  “They’re saving their limited remaining ammunition for a
time when there’s more stress,” said Daniel Dektar, chief
investment officer at  Chapel Hill , North Carolina-based Smith
Breeden Associates, which oversees $6.5 billion.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative easing
to cap borrowing costs. It is now in the process of swapping
shorter-term Treasuries in its holdings with those due in six to
30 years to put downward pressure on long-term borrowing costs.  Draghi Pledge  The central bank is scheduled to buy as much a $2 billion
of Treasuries due from February 2036 to May 2042 today as part
of the plan, according to the Fed Bank of New York  website .  There is a “significant chance” the Fed will implement a
third round of quantitative easing at its September meeting as
the economic data weaken, according to a report yesterday by
Michael S. Hanson, U.S. economist at Bank of America Corp. in
New York, and other economists and strategists at the company.  Draghi pledged July 26 to do “whatever it takes to
preserve the euro,” raising speculation the bank will buy bonds
issued by nations in the region.  “If the bank takes strong action, then Treasury yields
will go up,” said Chungkeun Oh, who invests in bonds in the
biggest markets for  Industrial Bank of Korea (024110) , South  Korea ’s
largest lender to small- and medium-sized companies. “Demand
for safe-haven assets is going to diminish.” Oh said he’s not
convinced that will happen, and last week he unwound positions
that would have benefited from rising rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  