-- Richter Keeps Guidance for Flat 2012 Revenue, CEO Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-08-02T09:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/richter-keeps-guidance-for-flat-2012-revenue-ceo-says.html
Gedeon  Richter Nyrt .,  Hungary ’s
largest drugmaker, is maintaining its earlier prediction of
sales stagnating in euro terms this year as plummeting domestic
sales and falling U.S. exports will outweigh rising revenue from
Russia and the European Union.  “What we see is that austerity measures affect health care
and drug budgets all over  Europe  and this gives us no reason to
be happy,” Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said at a press
conference in Budapest today.  Richter, which also is central and eastern Europe’s largest
maker of gynecological products, relies on exports to boost
profit as Hungarian tax increases and price competition depress
domestic sales. The company is eying individual products and
drug portfolios to purchase as it seeks to compensate the
“unprecedented” drop in Richter’s domestic market share,
according to the CEO.  Sales to  Russia  and Ukraine will probably increase as much
as 5 percent this year, while Hungarian revenue is set to
decline as much as 20 percent in forint terms, Bogsch said.
Exports to western Europe may increase as much as 5 percent.  Richter today reported a 34 percent annual jump in second-
quarter net  income  to 11.4 billion forint as a result of rising
sales and a weaker forint boosting export value.  ‘Massive Sales’  “Overall, we are pleased with Richter’s second-quarter
results driven by massive sales performance in the  Commonwealth
of Independent States  and a positive foreign exchange impact,”
Attila Vago, analyst at Budapest-based brokerage Concorde Zrt.
said in a note to customers today. Vago rates Richter equal
weight with a target price of 42,000 forint.  Richter  shares  retreated 1.3 percent to 38,815 forint by
11:16 a.m. in Budapest, heading for the biggest drop in almost a
month. The company has gained 13.5 percent this year, compared
with a 2.8 percent rise in the benchmark  BUX index .  Richter may receive a milestone payment from its U.S.
partner  Forest Laboratories Inc (FRX)  in the last quarter as Forest
will probably submit a registration application for the
cariprazine drug developed jointly by the two companies, Bogsch
said.  The amortization costs of Richter’s Esmya product, at 616
million forint in the April-June period, will remain at the same
level in coming quarters, according to the CEO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  