-- Trina Cancels Protest of EU Solar Complaint on Government Advice
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T07:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/trina-cancels-protest-of-eu-solar-complaint-on-government-advice.html
Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) ,  China ’s fourth-
biggest solar module maker, quashed plans by its workers to
protest  Solarworld AG (SWV) ’s anti-dumping complaint to the EU
Commission on the advice of government officials.  “The local government considers the meeting
inappropriate,” Gong Yingwen, corporate communications manager
at Trina’s public affairs department, said by phone today. Plans
for a demonstration to protest the EU complaint were also
canceled at Hebei-based  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  when
weather conditions hindered the action.  Solarworld,  Germany ’s largest solar-panel maker, is leading
a push for the European Commission to probe whether Chinese
rivals sold products at a loss on regional markets. The U.S. has
proposed anti-dumping duties ranging from 31 percent to 250
percent on Chinese solar manufacturers after the Commerce
Department in May ruled they sold products below costs.  Workers at Trina’s Changzhou plant planned to protest today
because they were “outraged” by the “extreme trade
protectionism” that they said will harm them while doing little
to benefit  Europe , according to a July 31 e-mailed statement
sent by Gong.  The canceled protest by 10,000 workers at Yingli Green
Energy’s five plants was due to  “weather conditions at the
Tianjin and Hainan plants,” Liang Tian, a company spokesperson,
said by phone today.  China’s exports of solar cells and panels to Europe each
year are almost the equivalent of $25 billion worth of imports
of vehicles from the continent, according to the China Chamber
of Commerce for Import & Export of Machinery & Electronic
Products.  “We may take other measures in the future,” Trina’s Gong
said. Yingli will issue an internal statement to employees in
lieu of the demonstration, Liang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  