-- Ritchie Bros. Drops as Competition Bites: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2012-08-02T17:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ritchie-bros-drops-as-competition-bites-vancouver-mover.html
Ritchie Bros. Auctioneers Inc. (RBA) , the
world’s largest auctioneer of industrial equipment, dropped to
its lowest in six years as more competition for resale equipment
brought second-quarter profit below estimates.  The stock plunged as much as 13 percent to C$17.88, the
lowest since February 2006, in Toronto today. It was the biggest
intra-day drop in a year. The stock fell 6.5 percent at C$19.20
at 12:28 p.m. and has lost 14 percent this  year .  The company, based in Burnaby, British Columbia, reported
adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 30 cents a share
compared with 25 cents a year ago. The median estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for 36 cents a share. Profit
was C$31.3 million this quarter compared with C$26.8  million
the year before.  “People were expecting greater volume in Ritchie’s system
and that didn’t happen,” said Hamzah Mazari, an analyst with
Credit Suisse by telephone from New York. “Historically,
Ritchie, in an economic recovery or a slow recovery, should be
able to do close to double-digit gross auction proceeds growth,
which they didn’t do this quarter.” Mazari has a neutral rating
on the stock.  Increased competition in the sale of used equipment cut
into the company’s profits, forcing it to offer people looking
to sell their equipment price guarantees. On a conference call
with analysts, Chief Executive Officer  Peter Blake  said these
guarantees hurt margins when prices came down in the second half
of the quarter.  Competition Increases  “In general, we did see some softening for some equipment
in the latter half of the quarter, particularly older model
equipment,” he said in a conference call.  Ritchie had to guarantee 36 percent of its sales this
quarter as equipment sellers looked elsewhere to find buyers,
 Stephen Volkmann , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. Inc., wrote in
a note to clients.  “They are competing for used equipment with dealers who
want to sell it, with brokers who want to sell it, with
Craigslist and people selling things directly,” Volkmann said
by phone from  New York . “So they have to be a little bit more
aggressive in going out and bidding for these lots of
equipment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  