-- Romania Political Turmoil Continues After Ruling Delayed
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-08-02T15:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/romania-political-turmoil-continues-after-ruling-delayed.html
Romania ’s  Constitutional Court 
postponed a ruling on validating the results of a July 29
referendum to impeach suspended President Traian Basescu,
prolonging the political turmoil that has weakened the leu.  The nine-member panel postponed a judgment until Sept. 12
to review electoral documents and voter lists after receiving
conflicting data from the central electoral bureau and the
statistics institute, according to a court statement released
today in Bucharest. The government must send an updated list of
voters to the court by Aug. 31.  The decision to postpone a ruling as the court waits to
decide if a minimum turnout threshold was reached will prolong a
battle between Basescu and Premier Victor Ponta that helped
weakened the leu 4 percent against the euro in the past month,
boosted borrowing costs and delayed a review of an international
bailout before parliamentary elections in November or December.  “The referendum should have been annulled” because the
authorities provided “inaccurate data,” Aspazia Cojocaru, one
of the judges, told reporters in Bucharest.  Turnout for the referendum called by Ponta’s ruling
coalition was 46.24 percent, according to the central electoral
bureau, below the majority required under the constitution. Of
those who took part, 87.52 percent approved Basescu’s ouster,
while 11.15 percent chose to keep him in power.  Government Challenge  The government challenged the result, saying the voter
lists were outdated and didn’t reflect the real number of
registered voters in the country.  “We consider the court’s decision as correct and we will
respect it,” Ponta said in an e-mailed statement today. “We
will start discussions with all the institutions responsible for
updating the voting lists and the process will be done in a
legal and transparent manner.”  The  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union
started a planned quarterly review of Romania’s 5 billion-euro
($6.1 billion) precautionary accord on July 31.  The plebiscite was boycotted by the Democrat-Liberal party,
which backs Basescu, to ensure turnout was below 50 percent of
the 18.3 million voters on the lists used by the electoral
bureau to organize the referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  