-- Romania Keeps Rate on Hold for 3rd Time Amid Turmoil
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-08-02T15:15:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/romania-keeps-rate-on-hold-for-3rd-time-amid-turmoil.html
(Corrects date in fifth paragraph.)  Romania’s central bank left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for a third consecutive
meeting as political turmoil that sank the leu to a record low
outweighed concern about a deepening recession.  The Banca Nationala a Romaniei kept its monetary policy at
a record-low 5.25 percent today, according to an e-mail from the
bank. Today’s decision matched the estimates of all 12
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “Heightened  risk aversion , against the background of an
unfavorable external environment and of possibly persistent
domestic political tensions, calls for further maintaining a
prudent monetary-policy stance,” the central bank said in a
statement.  Political wrangling between the president and the prime
minister, which led to a presidential impeachment vote last
week, weakened the leu 3.5 percent against the euro in July,
preventing the central bank from moving ahead with rate cuts
needed to help pull the economy out of a second recession in
three years.  The leu, the world’s second-worst performing currency in
July after the Sudanese pound, declined 0.5 percent to 4.6304
per euro at 5:01 p.m. in Bucharest after local media reported
that the  Constitutional Court  had postponed ruling on whether
the impeachment referendum was valid until Sept. 12.  Debt Crisis  As  Europe ’s debt crisis threatens to throw the 17-nation
economy into a recession, central and eastern European central
banks are cutting rates or weighing the merits of policy easing
on their export-driven economies.  Romanian inflation, which had slowed to a record low by
May, accelerated for the first time in June and will probably
end 2012 at 3.2 percent because of a statistical base effect on
food prices, the central bank forecast in May. Slowing price
growth, fueled by weak domestic demand and a bumper harvest in
2011, enabled policy makers to lower the main rate four times
before pausing in May and June.  Inflation will probably accelerate in the third quarter,
even as it remains within the bank’s target range of 2 percent
to 4 percent this year and next, Governor Mugur Isarescu told
reporters at a briefing today.  The central bank “again opted for prudence due to a
potential increase in inflation to 3.7 percent in December from
2 percent in June, external pressures on the leu and domestic
political jitters,” Eugen Sinca, a Bucharest-based analyst at
Banca Comerciala Romana SA, said in an e-mail after the rate
announcement.  Reserve Demands  Romania ’s central bank today also kept its minimum  reserve
requirements  on foreign-exchange deposits at 20 percent and the
ratio for leu deposits at 15 percent. It will probably leave the
main interest rate on hold this year, the median estimate of
seven economists in a Bloomberg survey shows, as the row
continues between President Traian Basescu and Premier Victor Ponta’s coalition before elections in November or December.  Neighboring Hungary has also kept its rate unchanged for
seven months amid stalled aid talks with the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union and a worsening inflation
outlook. It may cut the rate by the end of this year as the
economy slides into recession. The  Czech Republic  held its main
rate today after lowering it in June for the first time in two
years to combat an economic slump.  Romania fell into a recession in the first quarter as
government spending cuts hampered consumption and freezing
weather curbed exports. Gross domestic product growth will
probably slow to 1.5 percent this year compared with 2.5 percent
in 2011, according to IMF and EU forecasts.  The GDP forecast may be lowered to below 1.5 percent this
year as “sufficient data,” including lower agricultural
output, point to a further slowdown, Isarescu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  