-- Romney’s Twitter Nemesis Builds Following Taunting Candidate
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-02T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/romney-s-twitter-nemesis-builds-following-taunting-candidate.html
Social media’s central role in the
presidential campaign has elevated some unusual figures to
positions of prominence.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican nominee, probably
imagined his official Twitter handle (@MittRomney) would be the
provenance of his own campaign. Yet on many days, the mentions
of @MittRomney most heavily re-sent to others -- a standard
gauge of popularity and influence -- don’t emanate from the
buttoned-down former Massachusetts governor. Instead, they come
from an account whose avatar reveals a large, hirsute man
wearing nothing but a green Speedo.  That’s Rob Delaney ( @robdelaney ), a ribald Los Angeles
comic who, along with his half a million followers, has emerged
as Romney’s chief tormentor on Twitter, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 6 issue.  It’s an odd pairing. Delaney’s stand-up routine doesn’t
involve politics. Still, his stage act is only one part of his
repertoire. In May he beat out the likes of  Stephen Colbert  and
Aziz Ansari to win  Comedy Central ’s “Funniest Person on
Twitter” award. Here, Romney has proved irresistible -- and a
boon for Delaney’s career, winning him attention and bigger
audiences for his act.  ‘His Birthright’  “Romney fascinates me endlessly,” Delaney said before his
show at a Montreal comedy festival last week. “He’s such an
attractive target comedically because more than any other
candidate in my lifetime, he just wants to be president. That’s
it! He longs for it. Feels it’s his birthright. I can imagine
him getting elected and just saying, ‘Well, that’s that then!’
and staring out a window.”  Last year Delaney began sending Twitter messages about
Romney and the jokes were forwarded hundreds, sometimes
thousands, of times. They tend to portray the Republican
candidate as either a hopeless square (“‘Ha ha ha! Terrific!’ --
Mitt Romney, every time Jar Jar Binks appears on screen”) or a
cretinous bigot (“@MittRomney I don’t care about gays marrying
but they shouldn’t be allowed on straight planes because then I
have to breathe gay air?”).  None of this would matter if Delaney’s portrayal of Romney
didn’t routinely eclipse that of the candidate himself. At
Bloomberg Businessweek’s request,  VoterTide , a social media
analytics company, measured Twitter mentions of Romney in June
and found that Delaney’s were the most popular 44 percent of the
time.  Pushing His Message  On days when the real Romney took the top spot, Delaney was
often second. And third.  “Much of the time, his followers are pushing his message
further and connecting with people better than Romney himself is
doing,” says VoterTide’s co-founder, Jimmy Winter.  Delaney’s shenanigans haven’t drawn a response from
Romney’s team. Yet he’s amassed enough followers -- many
national political reporters among them -- that President  Barack Obama ’s campaign contacted him to gauge his interest in helping
out the cause.  He’s an ardent supporter of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act -- a serious car accident in 2002 required
multiple surgeries that left him with staggering medical bills
because he lacked health insurance. Although Delaney chose to
remain unaffiliated, he’s kept after Romney.  Twitter Influence  “To the extent I can wield Twitter influence, I prefer to
function like a much cleaner, more honest super-PAC,” he says.  Romney, who has about 800,000 Twitter followers to Obama’s
18 million, has lately made an effort to improve his reach and
reputation on  social networks . In a bid to gin up excitement,
the campaign says it will announce his running mate on a mobile
“Mitt’s VP” app supporters can download.  Social media has been kinder to Delaney. Two years ago he
was “toiling in the comedy salt mines” and as a telemarketer for
Investor’s Business Daily. He joined Twitter in 2009 and built a
large enough following to support himself doing comedy full
time.  Twitter users, he discovered, can support comics as
passionately as they do politicians. As HBO Canada prepared to
tape a segment on him, Delaney paused to reflect on his unlikely
political role.  “A few months back, I decided I was going to try to make
fun of Mitt Romney less, because it’s like an addiction,” he
said. “It turns out I can’t.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova in Washington at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  