-- Russia’s Micex Index Rallies Before ECB Meeting; Oil Gains
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-08-02T11:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/russia-s-micex-index-retreats-before-ecb-policy-makers-meet.html
Russian stocks surged as investors
awaited a policy announcement by the  European Central Bank  after
the U.S. Federal Reserve refrained from more economic stimulus.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added 0.8 percent to 1,423.06 by 2:36 p.m.
in Moscow after sliding as much as 0.4 percent earlier. OAO
Magnit,  Russia ’s biggest food retailer, gained 3 percent and OAO
RusHydro added 4.5 percent. OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest
oil producer, slumped as much as 1.4 percent after posting a
second-quarter net income loss. OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest
coking coal producer, surged 3.1 percent, extending its 6.6
percent gain yesterday.  The ECB is due to announce a policy decision today
following President  Mario Draghi ’s pledge last week to do
“whatever it takes” to keep the euro together. Fed Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  held off on stepping up record stimulus even as
economic growth slowed.  “Whether the ECB will be able to act effectively and
decisively and put itself ahead of the curve of economic
deceleration is the big question at this point,” Slava Smolyaninov, an analyst at Uralsib Capital, said in an e-mailed
research note. “It appears that markets believe some kind of
loosening is on the way and they may be seriously disappointed
if hawks win this time.”  Crude oil, Russia’s chief export earner, fell as much as
0.4 percent, before trading up 0.4 percent at $89.12 in  New
York . Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent of the nation’s
state revenue.  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  rose 0.8 percent to
1,385.87.  The Micex trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings , having
gained 1.6 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.7 times for companies in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
which has added 3.6 percent this year.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  