-- Russia Stocks Drops to Week Low as Oil Falls on Draghi Inaction
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-08-02T16:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/russia-stocks-drops-to-week-low-as-oil-falls-on-draghi-inaction.html
Russian stocks declined to the lowest
in a week after oil dropped as European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  failed to reassure investors on immediate efforts
to stem the region’s debt crisis.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  slid 1.1 percent to 1,397.05 by 6:45 p.m.
in Moscow, the lowest since July 26, having earlier lost as much
as 1.8 percent. OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer,
slumped 2.2 percent after posting a second-quarter net loss.
Federal Grid Co.,  Russia ’s high-voltage power transmission
monopoly, retreated 4.4 percent. OAO Uralkali, the world’s
biggest potash producer, dropped 2.2 percent while miner OAO
Raspadskaya retreated 1.7 percent.  Crude oil, Russia’s chief export earner, declined as much
as 2.2 percent after Draghi failed to give details of a plan
designed to shore up the euro by curbing rising government
borrowing costs in the region. The ECB head pledged on July 26
to do “whatever it takes’” to stem the debt crisis in  Europe .
Oil and gas contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s state
revenue.  “There was an expectation by the market that Draghi would
do something to intervene based on his statements made last
week,”  Andrey Kuznetsov , a Citigroup Inc. equity strategist in
Moscow, said by phone. “His comments today have disappointed
and we have seen profit-taking as a result.”  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  slipped 1.4 percent to
1,355.32.  The Micex trades at 5.2 times  estimated earnings , having
gained 1.6 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
9.7 times for companies in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index,
which has added 3.6 percent this year.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  