-- San Bernardino, California, Files Chapter 9 Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h ,   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-02T23:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/san-bernardino-california-files-for-bankruptcy-protection-2-.html
San Bernardino,  California , filed for
municipal bankruptcy after disclosing a $46 million shortfall in
the city’s budget, the third California city to seek court
protection from creditors since June 28.  California cities from the Mexican border to  San Francisco
Bay  are confronting rising pension costs as they contend with
growing unemployment and declining property- and sales-tax
revenue. The costs stem from decisions made when stock markets
were soaring and retirement funds were running surpluses.  San Bernardino officials sped up the timing of the
bankruptcy filing because they were concerned that some
creditors may take legal action against the city, Mayor Patrick J. Morris said yesterday in a phone interview. Under Chapter 9,
all court cases and other legal actions against the city will be
halted until the bankruptcy case is over.  The city was forced to seek court protection so abruptly
because of actions by plaintiffs in three cases involving the
San Bernardino Police Department, prompting the city to submit
an “emergency filing,” according to an e-mailed statement from
the San Bernardino city attorney’s office.  San Bernardino, a city of 209,000 about 60 miles (97
kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , listed assets and debt of more
than $1 billion in a filing yesterday with the U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in Riverside, California.  “All of our vital service bills will continue to be
paid,” Mayor Morris said. “We are going to keep our city
services running.”  Pension Liabilities  Pension liabilities in the California cities of Fairfield,
Inglewood, Pomona, San Bernardino, Stockton and Vallejo rose
6 percent to $4.3 billion for the year ending June 30, 2010,
from $4.1 billion in 2009, according to the most recent data
available from the  California Public Employees’ Retirement
System .  In the northern California municipality of Fairfield, near
the Napa Valley winegrowing region, 18 percent of the general-
fund budget goes toward pension costs, up from 14 percent in
fiscal 2008, said  David White , the deputy city manager.  Fairfield, Inglewood, Pomona and other California
municipalities including Compton are on a list of cities “on
the precipice” compiled by Matt Fabian, a managing director for
Concord, Massachusetts-based Municipal Market Advisors, who
cited news reports in identifying them in a July 23 research
note.  Reduced Workforce  San Bernardino has reduced its workforce by 20 percent in
the past four years and negotiated labor cuts valued at about
$10 million annually, according to a June 26 budget analysis
posted on its website.  One of the main problems is the high cost of the city’s
union contracts, particularly for police and fire service, City
Councilman Fred Shorett said in a phone interview.  Under the city charter, which is like a constitution for
municipal governments, city officials must use a specific
formula for determining wages and other benefits paid to its
police and fire employees, Shorett said. That formula requires
the city to set compensation by comparing employee pay in San
Bernardino, which has one of the highest home foreclosure rates
in California, with cities in the state that are about the same
size and have more money to spend, Shorett said.  “We are set up for failure,” he said.  Steve Turner, with the city’s police union, and Richard
Moss, with the fire union, didn’t return calls yesterday seeking
comment on the bankruptcy filing.  Accounting Errors  The city faced insolvency because of accounting errors,
deficit spending, pension and debt costs, and lack of revenue
growth, according to the June 26 report.  As property values plunged as part of the housing crisis,
the city’s tax revenue fell as well. In 2008, the city’s general
fund, which is used to pay for most of its basic services, like
police and fire protection, peaked with $133 million in revenue.
This fiscal year, which started July 1, the fund will bring in
$120 million in revenue. The preliminary budget calls for
spending of $166.2 million, leaving the city short by about $46
million, according to a July 23 budget document.  The past two fiscal years, city officials reported having
more money in their general fund than they actually had. In the
fiscal year that ended June 30, city officials reported a
balance of $2 million, when there was actually a deficit of $1.2
million, according to the report.  ‘Criminal Activity’  The San Bernardino County sheriff’s office announced a
criminal investigation of the city on July 12, two days after
the city council, which is separate from the county, voted to
pursue bankruptcy.  The sheriff’s announcement didn’t indicate whether the
investigation was related to the city’s finances. It referred to
“allegations of criminal activity within departments of the San
Bernardino city government.”  Sheriff Rod Hoops has said in media interviews that he
doesn’t know of any connection between the investigation and the
city’s financial crisis, said Jodi Miller, a sheriff’s
spokeswoman, in a phone interview.  Stockton, California, a community of 292,000 east of  San
Francisco , on June 28 became the biggest U.S. city to file for
bankruptcy. Mammoth Lakes, a mountain resort of 8,200, sought
protection from creditors on July 3, saying it couldn’t afford
to pay a $43 million judgment.  San Bernardino officials asked the city council on July 24
to defer any debt payments due from July 1 to Sept. 30.  Bond Debt  The city has about $55.9 million in bond debt tied to the
general fund. The city also has unfunded liabilities of $296
million, including $195 million related to pensions and $61
million related to medical benefits for retired city workers.  Interim City Manager Andrea Travis-Miller proposed putting
off $3.56 million in payments due pension bondholders and bank
lenders and $2.22 million owed for retiree health care.  “Unfortunately these measures are intended to enable the
city to meet its obligations over a three-month period and will
not result in a sustainable, balanced budget,” Travis-Miller
wrote in her memo to the city council.  She is preparing a longer-term budget that will be
implemented while in bankruptcy that would cut spending by about
30 percent.  Bond Prices  Taxable Build America Bonds sold by the San Bernardino
Joint Powers Financing Authority in December 2010 and maturing
in 2030 traded Aug. 1 at an average yield of 9.08 percent, up
from a 2012 low of 7 percent on March 23, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  A day after the bankruptcy filing, yields on 30-year tax-
exempts were down 0.01 percentage point to 2.89 percent at 11
a.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Prices move in the opposite direction of yields.  “The filing happened quicker than the market assumed, but
it was still expected to happen so it wasn’t a surprise,” Jason
Hannon, a trader at New-York based Arbor Research & Trading
Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  