-- San Francisco Gasoline Rises for Sixth Day on Flaring
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-08-02T23:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/san-francisco-gasoline-rises-for-sixth-day-on-flaring.html
Gasoline in San Francisco gained for
a sixth day after  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s Richmond refinery reported a
unit shut and  Tesoro Corp. (TSO) ’s Golden Eagle plant reported flaring
associated with a reformer.  The 240,000-barrel-a-day Richmond refinery reported that a
flange leak on a “hydrogen cross tie line” forced the plant to
depressurize a unit in a notice to the California Emergency
Management Agency. Melissa Ritchie, a Chevron spokeswoman in
Richmond, said the report was accurate and declined in an e-mail
to comment on operations at the plant.  California-blend, or Carbob, in San Francisco rose 0.75
cent to 14.75 cents above gasoline futures on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the highest level for the fuel in more than a month.  Tesoro’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle refinery also
reported flaring associated with the “3 reformer RFS and BSU
with 1 HTS,” a filing with the Contra Costa County hazardous
materials division showed. Tina Barbee, a spokeswoman at the
company’s headquarters in  San Antonio , declined in an e-mail to
comment on the status of the units and said refinery
“operations are running normally.”  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ’s 170,000-barrel-a-day Benicia plant in
Northern California is performing repairs to a compressor that
may keep a fluid catalytic cracker, which upgrades heavy gasoil
into gasoline and other lighter products, out of service until
mid-August.  Carbob in  Los Angeles  fell for a second day, slipping by
0.25 cent to a premium of 10.75 cents a gallon against futures.  BP Carson  BP Plc (BP/)  finished routine maintenance at the 266,000-barrel-
a-day Carson refinery in  Southern California , a person familiar
with operations there said. The plant shut equipment that
removes residual benzene from the crude unit for about three
weeks of planned repairs last month, a person with direct
knowledge of the work said July 19.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in Los Angeles
climbed 0.63 cent to 6.13 cents a gallon above Nymex heating oil
futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco  gained 2.25 cents to a
9.75-cent-a-gallon premium versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon ,
gained for a fifth day, rising 0.25 cent to a premium of 5 cents
a gallon versus Nymex gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there 
gained 1.75 cents to 11.5 cents a gallon above heating oil
futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  