-- Scalpel-Throwing Surgeons Stun Anger Management Pioneer
-- B y   C h a s e   S c h e i n b a u m
-- 2012-08-02T21:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/scalpel-throwing-surgeons-stun-anger-management-pioneer-health.html
George Anderson  positioned himself on
a stool across the operating table so he could get a good angle
on the surgeon’s face. He watched for signs of irritation as the
doctor, known for temper tantrums, sewed a valve into a
patient’s heart. Then the surgeon’s phone buzzed.  The hospital earlier had called in Anderson, an anger
management therapist, to help one of their top doctors -- now
cursing into his headset -- control his bad temper. After the
operation, the surgeon removed his latex gloves, threw them on
the floor and left the operating room in silence.  “Everyone in the room was stunned,” says Anderson, 73.  Anderson & Anderson, the business Anderson founded 30 years
ago in Los Angeles, has trained and certified at least 11,000
anger management specialists.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,  Halliburton
Co. (HAL) ,  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and the federal prison system
have used his services to ward off lawsuits and dust-ups. So
have cops, athletes and business executives. He was even tapped
to consult on Anger Management, the 2003 comedy featuring  Adam Sandler  and  Jack Nicholson .  Last year, for the first time, more than a third of his
income came from medical workers. This year he expects to add
125 more of them, sent to him because of their inability to
manage the pressures of the job, as well as increased concerns
from hospital managers and accrediting agencies about temper
tantrums in the medical workplace.  Anderson was among the first of his peers to capitalize on
the boom of rageaholic caregivers. It began in earnest in 2009
when the Joint Commission, an independent body that is the
largest accreditor of medical programs, mandated that hospitals
deal with “disruptive” docs.  Hospital Anger  A survey published in American Journal of Nursing in 2002,
reported that 90 percent of hospital workers, including doctors
and nurses, reported “yelling,” “abusive language” as well
as “condescension” and “berating colleagues.”  A quarter of
the 1,200 people surveyed said they witnessed such behavior
weekly.  “There isn’t a doctor alive who hasn’t seen it,” says
William Norcross, executive director of a program at the
 University of California  at  San Diego  that uses anger management
to treat irascible physicians.  Medical professionals present Anderson with unique
challenges. Their hours are brutal, the stakes are high, and the
threat of malpractice suits is ever-present. The life-or-death
nature of the work wears at steely nerves even on the best days,
Anderson says.  “Can you imagine the amount of stress a doctor experiences
just by waking up in the morning?” Anderson said.  Stressful Lives  Many doctors work long hours at the expense of family and
exercise, which can dissolve tension. One doctor laughed in his
face when he suggested she take a vacation. There’s another
factor to consider: Since 2010, doctors’ pay has stagnated, with
some specialties weathering a 10 percent cut.  Verbal abuse is among the milder transgressions, according
to Anderson. “Throwing instruments, like scalpels, is not
unusual,” he said. One surgeon flung a tool after being handed
the wrong item twice. It struck the ceiling. Another launched a
used instrument, hitting a nurse on the shoulder.  The term “anger management” was coined in 1975 by
psychologist  Raymond Novaco . Anderson, who studied psychotherapy
at  Harvard Medical School , first wrote his own curriculum in the
mid-1990s to treat offenders adjudicated by Los Angeles County
courts. Today there are more than 17,000 businesses and
individuals in the U.S. certified to offer anger management,
many tailored to specific temperaments of various professions.  ‘Executive Coaching’  Courses meant for businesspeople are often innocuously
billed as “executive coaching” because of the corporate desire
for anonymity -- a characteristic shared with the medical
establishment.  “Physicians are paranoid to have anyone knowing that they
received psychotherapy,” Anderson says.  Anderson saw a spike in doctor clients this year after
signing a contract with  Kaiser Permanente , the California-based
managed-care organization that provides  health services  to
almost 9 million people. For some on-site courses, Anderson
charges more than $8,000 a session; in his Wilshire Boulevard
office in  Los Angeles , it’s $5,000. In most cases, hospitals
will happily pay to make the rage go away.  To teach clients to defuse a blowup, Anderson has them
practice long, slow breaths through their noses and think the
word “peace” on inhalation and “release’” on exhalation. In
addition, he coaches people to lie down, take a time out and
imagine being on a beautiful beach. Or to replace inner dialogue
like “I’m such an idiot” or “What a jerk he is!” with a
positive statement, such as “Someday we will laugh about
this.”  Self-Awareness  Typically, doctors meet with Anderson face-to-face for a
total of six hours. After that, they talk on the phone with him
twice a month for six months. At the beginning and end of that
time, the doctor takes a test on “emotional self-awareness.”
He rates himself on a scale from “never” to “always” in
response to statements such as “It’s hard for me to smile” and
“I care about other people’s feelings.”  Once problem physicians see how low they score on these
tests, Anderson says, they surrender to the process. This stands
in contrast with business executives; they tend to resist and
ask for further evidence that Anderson’s services are really
required.  The first thing Anderson tells doctors is that high
intelligence is no protection from stupid behavior. It cannot
prevent the flubbing of jobs, marriages, or relationships.
Meanwhile, Anderson’s workbook, “The Practice of Control,”
which he has adapted specifically for doctors, teaches them that
anger is as injurious as “smoking a pack of cigarettes each
day.”  Motivated Doctors  Based on follow-up calls with hospitals, Anderson says that
four-fifths of his doctors have curbed their workplace
explosions. Doctors are motivated to rescue their imperiled
careers and love lives, he says. “I can’t imagine any other
population of clients that does as well.”  There is one profession with whom Anderson does civility
training that tests his own composure. “Lawyers,” Anderson
said, “I do not like at all.” 