-- Sealed Air Drops on Profit Miss, Pursues Options: New York Mover
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-08-02T20:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sealed-air-drops-on-profit-miss-pursues-options-new-york-mover.html
Sealed Air Corp. (SEE) , the maker of Bubble
Wrap, dropped the most in more than three years after posting
second-quarter earnings that trailed analysts’ estimates and
announcing plans to pursue “strategic options.”  Sealed Air plunged 17 percent to $13.15 at the close in  New
York .  The shares  earlier fell as much as 27 percent, the biggest
intraday decline since October 2008.  Profit excluding restructuring expenses and other one-time
items was 20 cents a share, Elmwood Park, New Jersey-based
Sealed Air said today in a statement. That trailed the 35-cent
average of 10  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sealed Air cut its full-year earnings  forecast  to a range
of $1 to $1.10 per share, from $1.50 to $1.60 a share. That
compares with the $1.38 average estimate of 11 analysts.  Chief Executive Officer William V. Hickey plans to
eliminate 900 jobs this year as part of an effort to cut costs
amid slower demand growth than anticipated, particularly in
 Europe , he said today on a conference call. Sealed Air may move
out of products, business units and regions that don’t align
with the company’s “core focus,” he said.  “We are currently reviewing our strategic options,”
Hickey said on the call. “We are looking for what in our
portfolio may not meet our criteria in any one of those
categories.”  Sealed Air makes plastic packaging and entered the market
for sanitizing chemicals with its purchase of Diversey Holdings
Inc. last year.  The primary reason for the earnings miss was the food-
packaging unit, where operating margins narrowed by 2.7
percentage points from a year earlier,  Ghansham Panjabi , a New
York-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. who rates the shares
outperform, said today in a note. The reduced forecast is
“sobering” and implies earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization will be unchanged from last year,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  