-- Segro Rises as Earnings Gain Eases Concern About Dividend
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-08-02T16:19:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/segro-advances-as-earnings-increase-eases-concern-about-dividend.html
Segro Plc (SGRO)  climbed the most in more
than six months after the U.K. real estate investment trust
reported higher first-half earnings and said it will pay an
unchanged dividend. Investors were concerned Segro would reduce
the payout, Jefferies International analyst  Robert Duncan  said.  Segro, the U.K.’s largest owner of industrial properties,
gained 11.2 pence, or 4.9 percent, to 238 pence in  London . The
shares had fallen 24 percent in the 12 months through yesterday,
the worst performance among stocks in the 11-member  FTSE 350
Real Estate Investment trust Index , which dropped 5 percent.  Earnings excluding items and changes in asset values rose
to 9.9 pence a share from 9.4 pence a year earlier, Segro said
in a statement today. This profit measure determines the size of
the company’s dividend payments. Segro will pay a first-half 
dividend  of 4.9 pence a share.  “Things are starting to come together for Segro as the
performance of the core portfolio supports the dividend,”
Duncan said by phone. The London-based analyst has a hold rating
on the stock.  Segro still needs to reduce its debt further and faces a
challenge in selling peripheral assets, most of which are in
continental  Europe , Duncan said.  Asset Sale  The company today announced  the sale  of 10 properties in
the U.K. to an unnamed fund for 111 million pounds ($173
million). That brought the proceeds from disposals this year to
503 million pounds. Segro had aimed to raise as much as 500
million pounds from asset sales by the end of the year.  “There will be a slower rate of progress on disposals,”
Chief Executive Officer David Sleath said in a telephone
interview.  The company based in Slough, 22 miles west of London, aims
to sell 816 million pounds more peripheral assets, including
five large office and industrial campuses in Belgium, Germany
and  Italy . Most were designed for their current occupiers,
making them harder to sell, Sleath said.  Segro said it will “at least maintain the dividend” at
the same level this year, analysts at UBS AG said in a note to
investors, reiterating their buy rating of the shares. The
company had previously indicated that it was prepared to make
payouts that weren’t fully covered by earnings as it
restructured its real estate, according to the analysts.  Net asset value declined 6.7 percent to 317 pence a share,
reflecting additional writedowns for properties that it’s
seeking to sell. The largest, which accounted for 47 percent of
the writedowns, was for a property in  Frankfurt  leased by
Neckermann.de GmbH, which filed for insolvency last month.  Today’s gains lifted the value of the company to 1.77
billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in London at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 