-- SEK Structured Note Sales Fall 75% After Loss of Distributors
-- B y   K e v i n   D u g a n   a n d   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-08-02T15:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sek-structured-note-sales-fall-75-after-loss-of-distributors.html
U.S. structured note sales at Svensk
Exportkredit AB have slumped 74 percent in 2012 after it lost
distributors following last year’s downgrade to junk of a
similar Scandinavian company.  Svensk Exportkredit, which is owned by  Sweden  and helps
foreigners invest in the country’s goods and services, has
issued $348.1 million of securities this year, compared with
$1.36 billion in the same period in 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The company was hurt by the downgrade of its Scandinavian
counterpart Eksportfinans ASA in November, said Richard Anund,
 executive director  and head of funding at Stockholm-based SEK.
Eksportfinans, which is owned by Norwegian banks and the
ministry for trade and industry, was  cut seven  levels to junk by
Moody’s Investors Service on Nov. 22 after failing to meet
European Union regulatory requirements, prompting the government
to begin winding it down in favor of a new loan program.  “If you are a retail investor, you start to ask yourself
questions if that could happen to other institutions as well,”
Anund said in a telephone interview.  Banks had used the two Scandinavian export finance
companies to issue notes because of their historically higher
ratings. SEK has the second-highest credit grade from both
Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s . Banks, which often underwrite
sales of their own structured notes, work with third-party
issuers partly to diversify credit risk for investors.  Losing Distributors  Bank of America Corp . has underwritten all of SEK’s deals
this year, Bloomberg data show.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  hasn’t
distributed any structured notes for the company since December,
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  since July 2011, after together they
handled $419.8 million of its securities last year. New York-
based Goldman Sachs has underwritten other notes for SEK, such
as a three-year, $250 million floating-rate bond issued July 30.  Tiffany Galvin, a spokeswoman for Goldman Sachs,  Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, and Matt Card, a
spokesman for Bank of America, declined to comment.  The Swedish government has wholly owned SEK since 2003,
while Eksportfinans is 15 percent owned by  Norway . In 2008,
Sweden set up a 100 billion kroner ($14.8 billion) guarantee
fund to protect debt investors from losses, which SEK hasn’t had
to use, Anund said.  SEK sold $114.4 million of structured notes in July, the
most since June 2011, Bloomberg data show. The largest offering
was $70.8 million of 14-month notes tied to the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index that pay three times the benchmark’s gains up
to a cap of 15.33 percent, according to a prospectus filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The company wants to shift its focus to notes with four- to
five-year maturities to match the length of loans it issues,
Anund said.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Dugan in  New York  at 
 Kdugan4@bloomberg.net ;  Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 