-- Senators Keep Dozens of Breaks Amid Talk of Simple Taxes
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-03T14:40:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/senate-finance-committee-passes-tax-break-extension-plan.html
Senate Finance Committee members this
week supported seemingly contradictory goals. They voted to
extend narrow tax breaks even as they touted an overhaul of the
 tax code  that would imperil some of those same benefits.  A $205.1 billion proposal, approved yesterday by the panel
on a 19-5 bipartisan vote, would provide breaks for corporate
research,  wind energy  producers and financial-services companies
doing business outside the U.S. It also would prevent the
expansion of the alternative minimum tax for 2012 and 2013.  “ Tax reform  is so monumental, is like the earth being hit
by a huge asteroid,” said Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat who distinguished the bill from the trade-offs
that would be part of an eventual tax overhaul. “We all know
that we’re going to have to do some things that we don’t want to
do at all, and I think people are kind of prepared to.”  During and after the panel’s discussions, committee members
agreed that an overhaul of the U.S. tax code is necessary. They
split on whether yesterday’s effort shows that the committee can
tackle tax policy across party lines or that lawmakers weren’t
bold enough in letting tax incentives lapse and confronting the
entrenched interests that lobby for extensions.  ‘Pitiful Effort’  “This was a pitiful effort at trying to reduce the number
of credits that we had out there in a time of fiscal crisis in
the country,” said Senator Richard Burr, a North Carolina
Republican who voted against the proposal. “If it’s a practice
round, it’s certainly not going to bode very well for tax
reform.”  Senator  Max Baucus , the committee’s chairman, wrote the
proposal along with Senator  Orrin Hatch , a Utah Republican.
Baucus, a Montana Democrat, added several provisions before the
vote, including a one-year extension of the production tax
credit for wind energy through 2013 and an extension of a
benefit for owners of motorsports tracks.  “By working together here today, we’re proving we still
have the capacity to do what our bosses, that is the American
people, sent us here to do,” Baucus said. “That is: Get things
done.”  The committee’s effort was “pathetic but not surprising,”
said Howard Gleckman, a resident fellow at the  Urban Institute 
and a blogger for the nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in
Washington.  If anything, he said, the risk of elimination and eventual
rescue of some of the tax breaks fueled lobbying and campaign
contributions around the lapsed provisions.  ‘Break That Coalition’  “All these guys work together and they support one
another’s tax preferences,” he said. “And you somehow have to
find a way to break that coalition and create an environment
where it’s every industry for itself.”  Hatch, while saying he wanted to eliminate more breaks,
emphasized that the committee had declined to extend many
others. Among tax benefits that the measure would allow to lapse
are those for investment in the  District of Columbia , Gulf Coast
incentives created after  Hurricane Katrina  in 2005 and a benefit
for rehabilitating contaminated sites.  The committee continued some breaks for individuals,
including a deduction for teachers’ out-of-pocket expenses and
an optional deduction for state sales taxes.  Hatch said yesterday’s debate was a “dry run” for a tax
overhaul. Other lawmakers called it a “beginning,” a
“prelude,” the “prelims” and a “warm up.”  Panel Democrats  All of the Democrats on the committee voted for the
proposal, along with Hatch and five other Republicans. Burr
voted no, as did  Jon Kyl  of Arizona,  Mike Enzi  of Wyoming,  John Cornyn  of Texas and  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma.  An overhaul of the tax code probably would include rate
reductions as well as changes to tax breaks. The bill approved
yesterday would extend the lapsed provisions through 2013,
giving Congress time to pursue a rewrite without affecting
businesses and households that rely on the breaks.  “If we’re looking at a reform which is hopefully a
permanent change in the tax code, the short-term extenders is
more of a short-term economic issue for stimulating business
activity here in the United States,” Senator  Mike Crapo , an
Idaho Republican, said Aug. 1.  A proposal from Coburn to remove a tax credit for
manufacturing energy-efficient appliances illustrated some of
the difficulties that Congress will face if it tries to
eliminate narrow provisions that have constituencies and
detractors.  ‘Crony Capitalism’  “Let’s call it what it is: a subsidy for appliance
makers,” Coburn said, noting that the credit would cost $650
million for a two-year extension. “It’s the worst form of crony
capitalism I know.”  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  are among the
beneficiaries of the tax break, which expired at the end of
2011. Because of the credit, Whirlpool has received a net tax
benefit in several recent years.  Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat, defended the
break, maintaining that appliances qualify only if they exceed
certain efficiency standards. Whirlpool is based in Benton
Harbor, Michigan.  “It keeps those jobs in America,” she said before
Coburn’s proposal failed on a 9-15 vote.  Congressional Recess  Turning the committee’s product into law won’t happen
quickly. Lawmakers will be on their summer recess until Sept.
10.  The House of Representatives has been examining the list of
expired breaks and doesn’t expect to consider extensions before
the Nov. 6 election.  The parties are split on whether to extend refundable tax
credits for college tuition and low-income families that were
created in the 2009 stimulus law. Democrats want to keep those
breaks while Republicans say they are failed spending programs.  That discussion is separate from the broader debate over
whether to extend the George W. Bush-era income tax cuts for all
taxpayers or allow the cuts on top earners to expire.  The Finance Committee didn’t consider broad issues that
would have prevented lawmakers from reaching the bipartisan
agreement. In a tax-code overhaul, politically divisive
questions about the progressivity of the tax code and the amount
of revenue it should raise can’t be avoided.  Broader Debate  Lawmakers need to be practical and have the broader debate,
said Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat who has a plan that
would lower rates and broaden the tax base.  “You can’t also sit in the corner with your arms crossed
and say to your constituents: I’m not going to do anything until
we have tax reform,” he said. “So you have to find a way to
respond to your constituents that’s consistent with broader
reforms.”  In one sense, Gleckman said, extending these provisions
offers a bigger pot of revenue to trade for rate cuts later.
Persuading companies and the lawmakers aligned with them to take
that trade will be harder.  “The interests that have come to learn to use these tax
preferences don’t care about a rate cut,” he said. “You can’t
get rates low enough to offset the value of some of these tax
subsidies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  