-- Senator Ends Bid to Block Air Force Nominee Over Assaults
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-08-02T22:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/senator-ends-bid-to-block-air-force-nominee-over-assaults.html
Texas Senator  John Cornyn  said he’s
ending his effort to block the confirmation of President  Barack
Obama ’s nominee for  Air Force  chief of staff, which began last
week because of concerns over the handling of sexual assaults at
Lackland Air Force Base in  San Antonio .  Cornyn, a Republican who met privately with General Mark Welsh today, issued a statement saying the chief of staff
nominee “demonstrated a genuine resolve to improving Air Force-
wide policies to prevent a recurrence of the grossly
unacceptable conduct that took place at Lackland.”  The Air Force has been investigating 15 military
instructors at Lackland alleged sexual misconduct involving at
least 38 victims.  Six of the instructors have been charged with crimes
ranging from improper sexual advances to rape. The others are
being investigated for allegations of sexual contact, non-
physical contact through social media and, in at least two
cases, some form of sexual assault.  One instructor, Staff Sergeant Luis Walker, was sentenced
to 20 years in prison on July 21 for crimes including rape,
adultery, obstruction of justice and aggravated sexual assault.  Lackland, one of the military’s busiest training centers,
provides basic training to all Air Force enlisted recruits.
About 500 instructors train 35,000 cadets annually.  The House Armed Services Committee held a closed-door
hearing today with Air Force Secretary Michael Donley about the
Lackland scandal.  ‘Good Step’  “We expect the Air Force to be open and transparent with
the results of its investigations,” said the committee
chairman, California Republican Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, and the ranking Democrat, Washington Representative  Adam Smith , in a statement. “Today’s briefing is a good step in that
direction, but this committee expects to be fully informed as
this issue evolves.”  Protect Our Defenders, a victims support group, delivered
to the committee today petitions signed by 10,000 supporters
demanding an open public hearing on the Lackland case, said
spokesman Brian Purchia.  McKeon and Smith defended the decision to keep today’s
hearing private, saying, “In sensitive cases such as these,
open hearings can jeopardize ongoing prosecutions and
investigations.”  Welsh’s nomination was approved July 26 by the Senate Armed
Services Committee for a vote by the full Senate. Cornyn had
placed a legislative “hold” on Welsh, invoking a prerogative
available to any senator.  Welsh’s spokesman, Lieutenant Colonel John Sheets, said in
an e-mail last week that the nomination “is working through the
confirmation process and he will continue to focus on leading
U.S. Air Forces in  Europe  until that process is finished.”  If confirmed by the Senate, Welsh would succeed retiring
General Norton Schwartz as chief of staff.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  