-- Serbian Dinar Weakens After Central Banker Soskic Resigns
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-08-03T09:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/serbian-central-bank-governor-soskic-resigns-position.html
Serb central bank Governor Dejan
Soskic’s resignation over plans to clip the bank’s autonomy
pushed the dinar to a record low on concern the nation’s drive
to join the European Union and win a bailout will falter.  The plan to limit the independence of the National Bank of
 Serbia ’s management is supported by the finance committee and
more than 100 deputies in the 250-seat legislature. The dinar,
 Europe ’s worst-performing currency this year, dropped as much as
0.9 percent against the euro and traded at 118.818 at 10:53 a.m.
in Belgrade.  Serbia, which won EU candidacy status this year, has been
ruled since July 27 by a coalition led by former colleagues of
 Slobodan Milosevic , who took the country into isolation during
the Balkan wars of the 1990s. The  International Monetary Fund , 
which suspended a $1.3 billion bailout loan in February, warned
against clamping down on central bank powers by a government
that wants to pull Serbia out of recession with higher spending
and lower  interest rates .  The European Commission is “concerned by what we see at
present,” said Peter Stano, the spokesman for EU Enlargement
Commissioner Stefan Fule, in a statement today from Brussels.
“The Commission expects from Serbia, as a candidate country, to
progressively align with the EU on economic and monetary policy.
The adoption of these amendments would be a considerable step
back.”  Recession Concern  Serbia is struggling to avoid a second recession in three
years, after the economy contracted 0.6 percent in the second
quarter, following a 1.3 percent decline in activity in the
first three-month period of 2012.  Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic , a former Milosevic spokesman,
has argued economic policy can’t be efficient if the central
bank and the government pursue different goals and warned the
bank not to contravene state efforts to spark  growth .  Dacic wants to halt a further increase in unemployment,
already at 25.5 percent, while curbing any further expansion in
the fiscal deficit, which reached 7.3 percent of economic output
at the end of March.  The bill would establish a supervisory body to take an
“active role” in monetary decision-making and have the power
to “prevent any banks from abusive international-payment
operations” and “money laundering” activities, according to
the draft. It also calls for the  central bank  governor and vice
governors to step down. Debate on the law will continue
tomorrow, Parliament’s press office said late last night.  ‘Political Risk’  The “fallout over the central bank law and the
increasingly uncertain prospects of IMF financing” are adding
to political risk, Eldar Vakhitov and Andreas Kolbe, emerging-
market economists at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said in a note
to clients yesterday.  The  IMF , which suspended a $1.3 billion loan in February
because of increased  government spending , said in a letter to
Soskic yesterday that the legislation appears to be “rushed.”  “Approval of these amendments would create uncertainty,
undermine policy credibility, and prompt questions about the
proper conduct of macroeconomic policies,” it said in the
letter. “These amendments require careful and detailed
consideration, given the potentially considerable implications
for overall macroeconomic stability in Serbia, and for the Fund
program.”  World Bank  The  World Bank  joined the IMF in questioning Dacic’s
policies, saying the amendments “fall short of international
best practices and may undermine considerably” the central
bank’s credibility.  The 45-year-old Soskic, who was appointed to a six-year
term in July 2010, had often warned that Serbia’s finances were
deteriorating and fiscal consolidation was urgently needed.  “This is a very negative first result for the new
government and there’s very little in terms of offsetting news
like details of necessary budget adjustments or future
cooperation with the IMF,” said  Agata Urbanska , an economist at
HSBC in London. “Investors are also left in the dark about the
drive for change at the central bank.”  Finance Minister  Mladjan Dinkic  told reporters yesterday
that he has been in “daily contact” with the IMF and the EU,
trying to convince them that the planned change is “correct.”  ‘Ugly Past’  The Progressive Party dropped its initial proposal to force
the central bank to finance the state through purchases of
government-issued bills and bonds on the secondary market, said
Jorgovanka Tabakovic, a top Progressive official who is expected
to be the next central bank governor.  “There is no need to create fear by a return to the ugly
past,” she told the finance committee yesterday.  Tabakovic and Nikolic were members of the Serbian Radical
Party between 1991 and 2008, which ruled together with
Milosevic’s Socialists and led the country through bouts of
hyper-inflation and currency devaluation.  Socialist Party spokesman Branko Ruzic defended changes as
a way to reinstill confidence in the economy and the banking
industry, which is dominated by foreign lenders.  There is “popular concern about banks dictating the
changes in the  exchange rate  from the early morning hours every
day,” said Ruzic. “Later, after the central bank intervenes,
they earn on exchange-rate differentials.”  The dinar has fallen more than 10 percent against the euro,
even after the central bank spent more than 1.3 billion euros
($1.6 billion) to curb the decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  