-- Sharp Widens Loss Forecast as LCD Panel Demand Slumps
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-08-02T07:18:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sharp-widens-loss-forecast-as-lcd-panel-demand-slumps.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) , maker of Aquos
televisions, said it will cut 5,000 jobs after widening its
annual loss forecast to 250 billion yen ($3.2 billion) as demand
for its sets slumped.  The  workforce reduction , the company’s first since 1950, is
part of a plan to reduce fixed costs by 100 billion yen, the
Osaka-based company said in a statement today. The loss outlook
compares with the  average  65.3 billion-yen loss estimate of 16
analysts compiled by Bloomberg, and is more than eight times the
company’s previous  projection  of a 30 billion-yen loss.  The Japanese electronics maker joins rivals  Sony Corp. (6758)  and
 Panasonic Corp. (6752)  in planning job cuts following record losses
caused by lower TV prices and demand, and a yen trading near its
postwar high, reducing the value of overseas earnings. The steps
come after Sharp unveiled a plan to separate its TV panel unit
and turned to  Foxconn Technology Group (2354)  and founder Terry Gou for
133 billion yen in funding after forecasting its second straight
annual loss.  “We want to recover earnings by undertaking unprecedented
restructuring measures swiftly,” Tetsuo Onishi, managing
director in charge of accounting, told reporters today in  Tokyo .  Foxconn’s flagship Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the
assembler of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads, will start buying panels from
Sharp’s display venture this quarter, three months earlier than
planned under a March agreement, Sharp President Takashi Okuda
said in June.  Hon Hai  “Investors are waiting to confirm progress in what the
management promised to do in June,” said Keita Wakabayashi, a
Tokyo-based  analyst  at Mito Securities Co. “Whether teaming up
with Hon Hai will reward investors or not depends on the
Taiwanese group’s marketing power of large panels.”  Sharp’s net loss was 138.4 billion yen in the three months
ended June 30, widening from 49.3 billion yen a year earlier,
the Osaka-based company said. The average of four analysts
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was a loss of 76 billion yen.  The large LCD-making plant, in which Gou gained a 37.6
percent stake, will increase its utilization rate to 90 percent
this year to meet orders from Foxconn, Okuda said.  The LCD operation will probably lose 105 billion yen this
fiscal year, Sharp said today. That compares with the 10
billion-yen projected by the company three months ago.  Full-year LCD sales will probably be 8 million units,
compared with an earlier projection for 10 million.  Okuda’s Challenge  The electronics maker promoted Okuda, 58, in April to
replace  Mikio Katayama , who became chairman, after predicting
the worst loss in its 100-year history amid slumping demand.  Sharp shares last month fell to their lowest since 1975
after the Nikkei newspaper reported the company will probably
post a quarterly loss and plans to cut jobs for the first time
in more than half a century.  On July 27 Sharp’s BBB+ long-term  credit rating  was put on
review for a possible downgrade at  Standard & Poor’s  because of
deteriorating TV and panel businesses. Refinancing risk for the
company’s convertible bonds  maturing  in September 2013 will also
be assessed, S&P said.  The stock rose 0.8 percent to close at 267 yen in Tokyo
trading before the earnings were released, trimming its loss
this year to 60 percent. Sharp has the biggest  percentage
decline  on the benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  this year, which has added
2.3 percent.  The operating loss will probably be 100 billion yen this
fiscal year, compared with the company’s previous forecast for
profit of 20 billion yen, Sharp said.  Billionaire Gou invested 66 billion yen for the 37.6
percent stake in Sakai Display Products Corp., which runs a
10th-generation panel plant, the LCD industry’s most advanced.
Foxconn Group’s planned purchase of  a 9.9 stake in Sharp  for 550
yen apiece, the other part of the March agreement, is pending
approval.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  