-- Shell’s Alaska Drilling Delayed by Bureaucracy, Republicans Say
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-08-02T15:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/shell-s-alaska-drilling-delayed-by-bureaucracy-republicans-say.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s drilling on
U.S. leases off  Alaska ’s north coast is being delayed by federal
bureaucrats,  House Republicans  said today in pushing to speed
development by citing success on private lands in  North Dakota .  North Dakota and its Bakken shale formation  overtook  Alaska
as the second-largest oil-producing state in March, according to
the Energy Information Administration. Alaska is seeking new oil
sources as output from the nation’s largest field,  Prudhoe Bay ,
declines and the flow through the Trans-Alaska pipeline drops.  “Despite vast untapped reserves elsewhere in the state as
well as offshore, new exploration and drilling there has been
greatly curtailed by decisions made in  Washington ,”
Representative Ed Whitfield, a Kentucky Republican and chairman
of an Energy and Commerce Committee panel, said today during a
hearing in Washington. “North Dakota gives us a glimpse of what
would be possible in many other parts of the country if only the
Feds took the handcuffs off.”  U.S. oil imports during President  Barack Obama ’s term have
dropped to the  lowest level  since 1999 and natural-gas output
climbed to a record, according to the Energy Information
Administration. Republicans said most of this oil and gas is
being developed on private lands exempt from federal oversight.  ‘Safe, Responsible’  “We are pursuing the safe, responsible and efficient
development of energy resources here at home,” Michael D. Nedd,
assistant director of minerals and realty management at the
Bureau of Land Management, said at the hearing.  “The
administration has taken a number of steps to accelerate safe
and responsible oil and gas development and production on public
lands, as part of the president’s ‘all-of-the-above’ energy
strategy.”  Kathleen Sgamma, vice president of government and public
affairs at Denver-based trade group Western Energy Alliance, and
Alaska Natural Resources Commissioner Dan Sullivan disagreed
with the administration assessment.  “The most dramatic example of federal regulatory delay in
Alaska involves Shell Oil Company’s attempts to explore for oil
in the federal waters off the coast of Alaska,” Sullivan said.
“Shell has yet to drill one exploration well” after spending
almost $5 billion and five years in planning, he said.  Shell’s work has been slowed by opposition from
environmental groups and native Alaskans, Coast Guard inspection
of a barge to be used in the exploration and thick ice. Shell,
 Europe ’s biggest oil company, is seeking to tap fields in the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas that are estimated to hold more than
20 billion barrels of oil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  