-- Shell, Total Seek EU Support for Carbon Capture as Price Too Low
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-02T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/shell-total-seek-eu-support-for-carbon-capture-as-price-too-low.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA (FP) 
are among a group asking the European Union to boost support for
projects to trap and bury carbon as low prices in the region’s
emissions trading system deter investment in the technology.  “The Emissions Trading Scheme must remain the backbone of
the overall incentive scheme, but it is going to be essential to
supplement that with other activity,” Graeme Sweeney, chairman
of the Brussels-based Zero Emissions Platform that advises the
European Commission on  carbon capture  and storage technology.  Carbon for December fell to a record 5.99 euros a metric
ton April 4 as the euro crisis slows growth leaving the market
with an excess of permits awarded for emission cuts. Investors
won’t pay for CCS projects, costing about 1 billion euros ($1.2
billion) each, if the value of the permits awarded is too low.  TransAlta Corp. of  Canada  in April abandoned a venture to
trap emissions from an Alberta coal-fired plant on low prices.  Nations including the U.K. have pledged CCS funding and the
EC has a program to fund the technology that allows fossil-fuel
power without adding pollution. The  International Energy Agency 
says if CCS isn’t widely deployed in the 2020s, the global cost
of curbing emissions by half by 2050 would rise by 70 percent.  The Zero Emissions Platform, including BP Plc and  General
Electric Co. (GE) , said in a report today states should act to allow
demonstration projects to be built before 2020, with CCS fitted
to power plants of more than 300 megawatts. Measures may include
competitive bids for CCS contracts, feed-in tariffs, tax-breaks
for enhanced oil recovery and public loan guarantees.  Unlikely Goals  “It’s unlikely that decarbonisation goals can be met if we
don’t have CCS,” said Sweeney, who is also a senior adviser on
CO2 to Shell. “We have no time left to lose. We must deliver
the demonstration projects in the remainder of this decade to
have a substantial early commercial roll-out in the 2020s.”  The weak carbon price also means there’s less money for the
EC’s NER 300 plan to fund CCS from a sale of carbon allowances,
according to ZEP. The Commission said on July 12 it had as much
as 1.5 billion euros for CCS and renewable energy after selling
2013 permits. It selected eight candidates for project awards.  “It is likely that the number of projects that will emerge
in this first phase from the NER 300 process will be fewer than
we had previously wished,” Sweeney said. “We must get three or
four.” The Emissions Trading Scheme must be “recalibrated” to
strengthen the carbon price, he added.  Zero Emissions Platform recommendations include immediately
setting aside a proportion of carbon permits and the gradual
tightening of a cap on allowances to 2050 to curb supply.  “It is perfectly possible for investors and government to
come to an agreement” on how to spur projects, Sweeney said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  