-- Siegel Says Gross Is Wrong in Attack on Stock Investing
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-08-02T17:15:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/siegel-says-gross-is-wrong-in-attack-on-stock-investing.html
Jeremy Siegel , author of “Stocks for
the Long Run,” said  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., is wrong when he
compares long-term returns from equities investing to a “ Ponzi
scheme .”  “I like Bill Gross a lot, but he’s got the economics
wrong,” Siegel said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with  Betty Liu . Siegel is “obviously pushing at windmills,”
Gross said today in an interview with Liu. “He belongs back in
his ivory tower,” Gross said.  In his monthly investment outlook July 31, Gross said that
the so-called Siegel Constant, which purports to show a long-
term history of inflation-adjusted equity real returns of 6.6
percent since 1912, may be a “historical freak” unlikely to be
seen again. Presuming a 2 percent return for bonds and 4 percent
nominal returns for stocks, a diversified portfolio produces a
nominal return of 3 percent and inflation-adjusted returns near
zero, Gross, who manages the $263.4 billion Total Return Fund at
Pimco, wrote in the outlook.  “Those that are looking for double-digit returns for
stocks to pay education, to pay for retirement, are bound to be
disappointed and that’s why the cult of equity is dead,” Gross
said today in the interview with Liu. “It’s hard to see how
corporations and stocks can continue to earn 3 percent more than
GDP going forward and that’s only common sense.”  New Normal  As part of adjusting to a so-called new normal, Pimco’s
view that the global economy has entered a period of slow growth
and low investment returns, Pimco began offering equity funds to
investors in April 2010. The firm moved into stocks to allow
customers to diversify their holdings and as areas such as
 emerging markets  started to outperform developed regions.  Siegel, a professor of finance at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School in Philadelphia, has endorsed
stocks for the long run, saying in April that he expects the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to reach 15,000 in the next two years.
The average was at 12,823 at 1:07 p.m. in New York. It touched a
2012 intraday high of 13,338 on May 1 and a low of 12,035 on
June 4.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 7.17 percent during the
past year, beating 77 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 1.65 percent in the past
month, beating 81 percent of its peers.  Insufficient Returns  Monetary policy  has “eliminated the possibility” of
investors in bonds and stocks earning adequate returns based on
their liabilities, Gross said. Those investors such as pension
funds and insurance companies that have depended on a 6.5
percent constant real return from stocks “are bound to be
disappointed,” he added.  “If stocks continue to appreciate at a 3 percent higher
rate than the economy itself, then stockholders will command not
only a disproportionate share of wealth but nearly all of the
money in the world,” Gross said in his monthly note in equating
the performance of stocks to a Ponzi scheme when measured over
the next 100 years.  Gross in June kept the proportion of U.S. government and
Treasury debt in his Total Return Fund unchanged at 35 percent
of assets, according to a report July 11 on the company’s
 website . Mortgages were at 52 percent for a second consecutive
month. Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  Germany Risks  In developed nations, Gross has advised investors to favor
debt of the U.K., as well as the U.S., as  Germany  faces risks
related to the eventual costs required to end the region’s
worsening sovereign and banking crisis.  Gross’s Total Return Fund attracted $2.1 billion last month
and deposits into his exchange-traded fund, which mimics the
flagship mutual fund’s strategy, reached the highest since the
fund started. The seventh straight month of net deposits into
the mutual fund contributed to $8 billion in new cash for the
year through July 31, Chicago-based Morningstar Inc. said
yesterday. The Pimco Total Return Exchange-Traded Fund attracted
$557 million in its best month ever.  John Bogle , the founder of mutual fund company Vanguard
Group Inc., said in a separate interview he agreed with Gross
that investors should expect lower long-term returns than
average returns produced over the last century. He said pension
funds are unrealistic in targeting 8 percent returns.  “Pension funds are dreaming about a bubble that isn’t
going to return,” he said. “On the other hand, buy-and-hold
investing is never dead.”  Bogle, 83, has spent his career advocating diversified,
long-term investing in stocks. He opened the first retail index-
based mutual fund, the Vanguard 500 Index Fund, in 1974.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  