-- Skechers Chases Toms Seeking to Woo Do-Good Millennials: Retail
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-08-02T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/skechers-chases-toms-seeking-to-woo-do-good-millennials-retail.html
When Blake Mycoskie founded Toms
shoes six years ago, his pitch to consumers -- buy a pair and a
second one will be donated to the needy -- helped start a
phenomenon retail consultants call compassionate consumerism.  Since then it has been imitated widely by established
brands. Inspired by Toms,  Skechers USA Inc. (SKX)  introduced a brand
called BOBS, as in Benefiting Others By Shoes.  Urban Outfitters
Inc. (URBN)  stores feature apparel by Threads for Thought, which gives
part of its sales proceeds to humanitarian groups.  For retailers such as Skechers, whose revenue fell 20
percent last year, the charity angle is a way to persuade wary
consumers to spend in a tough economy, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Aug. 6 issue. Shoppers in their late twenties and
early thirties, the so-called millennials, are particularly
susceptible to such pitches, because they lack the means to make
big donations and they admire brands that embody their save-the-
planet ethos, according to Mara Einstein, whose book Compassion,
Inc. was published in April.  Still, the efforts increasingly seem like a naked marketing
ploy to spur sales and could backfire, she said. “It’s almost
become marketing wallpaper,” said Einstein, a professor at
Queens College in  New York . “Everybody is getting on the
bandwagon.”  When done right, altruistic retailing strategies make
donors feel good, according to Einstein. A pair of Toms shoes
confers on the wearer a philanthropic halo, much as a  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  Prius lends the driver instant green cred. A major
catalyst of this kind of charity-driven marketing was  Lance Armstrong ’s Livestrong foundation, she said. “You wore a
bracelet every day that communicated to people that ‘I care
enough to donate to people who have cancer.’”  So-Called Authenticity  The key to the success of such products is so-called
authenticity, a word much used in retail marketing these days.
 Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  sells hats made by Krochet Kids International
with the slogan, “Buy a Hat. Change a Life.” Founded in 2008
by three college-age buddies, it enlists impoverished people in
nations such as Uganda and  Peru  to crochet hats, which are sold
for about $24 in the U.S. The hats are signed by their makers,
adding to the notion that they’re somehow more “authentic”
than, say, one by  VF Corp.’s (VFC)  North Face.  By selling the hats, Nordstrom gets some of the reflected
glow. Ditto for stores that sell apparel from Threads for
Thought. The New York for-profit maker of $63 maxi dresses and
$58 men’s fleece hoodies donates a percentage of sales to the
International Rescue Committee and the  Natural Resources Defense
Council .  Antihunger Programs  The core customers of FEED Projects, which makes handbags,
T-shirts, and accessories and donates a percentage of profits to
United Nations antihunger programs, are from 15 to 35 years old
and are interested in causes they read about on the Web, says
co-founder Lauren Bush Lauren, a niece of President  George W.
Bush  who recently married  Ralph Lauren ’s son David.  Compassionate consumption “really resonates with younger
people because young people don’t have a lot of disposable
income,” says Toms founder Mycoskie. “It’s their parents who
write checks for charity.”  Some companies’ adoption of compassionate marketing has
sowed controversy. For example, Skechers’s BOBS shoe line is
similar to Toms’s Argentine-style canvas espadrilles, and it’s
“kind of in poor taste to knock off,” said Corinna Freedman,
an analyst with Wedbush Securities.  Upped Ante  Skechers upped the ante on Toms by initially donating two
pairs for every one it sells. BOBS also are slightly cheaper,
starting at $38 compared with $44 for a pair of Toms. Skechers
recruited Dancing with the Stars winner Brooke Burke-Charvet to
promote BOBS in television commercials and says it has donated
more than 1 million pairs in just over a year. Los Angeles-based
Toms says it donated more than 1 million pairs in four years.  Generating perhaps $50 million in sales, BOBS is a plus for
Skechers, which aims to have many modest revenue streams to
spread out its risk, according to  Sam Poser , an analyst at
Sterne Agee & Leach. Sales of BOBS shoes also can sport higher
profit margins than other Skechers goods because they cost much
less to make, says Wedbush’s Freedman.  Skechers President Michael Greenberg, in an e-mail, made no
apologies for starting his own charity line. “Companies that
have the means should do what they can to make a difference, and
it’s beneficial for multiple footwear brands to join this cause
to make an even bigger impact,” he wrote.  While BOBS has drawn some criticism in social media,
investors and customers will probably look past the backlash,
since producing BOBS is in keeping with Skechers’s long-standing
business model of mimicking the latest hot shoe fad, Freedman
said. “They glom on to the next trend and exploit it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net ;
 James Ellis  at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net  