-- Small Banks Ask Break From Agency They Hoped Would Hurt BofA
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-08-02T18:45:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/smaller-u-s-banks-seeking-exemption-from-cfpb-mortgage-rules.html
U.S. community banks, which sat out
the final fight over the Dodd-Frank law of 2010 expecting it
would rein in their biggest rivals, are now seeking exemptions
from two pending rules of Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
amid mounting concern about costs to their businesses.  In meetings with  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director,
the  Independent Community Bankers of America  has called on the
agency to limit the reach of a rule on mortgage disclosures and
a second one on underwriting standards for home loans.  The demands reflect a rising conviction among community
banks that the bureau won’t deliver on its promise to write
regulations that serve consumers while also reducing the burden
on smaller banks, according to Camden Fine, president of the
community bankers trade association.  “The concepts have to be reduced to actual rules with
details, and the details are getting in the way of the
concepts,” Fine said in an interview.  Since Harvard professor  Elizabeth Warren  started setting up
the new agency in September 2010, forging an alliance with
community banks has been a centerpiece of its strategy.  Warren, who is now a Democratic candidate for the  U.S.
Senate  from Massachusetts, argued that rules could be written in
a manner that help them grab market share from major
institutions such as  Bank of America Corp.  or  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   Exemptions Considered  After President  Barack Obama  installed him as the agency’s
first director on Jan. 4, Cordray explicitly promised community
bankers that, in order to limit their costs, he would consider
exemptions to some rules. Such a move has drawn opposition from
larger banks who object to the unequal treatment, and from
consumer groups who argue it would repeat a pre-financial crisis
mistake.  “Historically, two-tiered regulation has resulted in the
migration of abuses to the lesser-regulated portions of the
market,” Alys Cohen, a staff attorney for the National Consumer
Law Center, said in an e-mail. “We cannot repeat that.”  The community bankers are seeking an exemption for banks
that do very few mortgages from the CFPB’s marquee project, a
simplification of federally mandated disclosures that consumers
get when shopping and signing for a mortgage, Fine said.  The group also raised with Cordray the possibility of
limiting the application of its so-called qualified mortgage
rule, Fine said. The rule, known as “QM,” would provide a
degree of legal protection for banks who follow certain
underwriting rules in case a loan goes bad.  ‘Relationship Model’  Robert Fisher, president and chief executive officer of
Tioga State Bank of Spencer,  New York , said the CFPB mortgage
rules make sense only if a bank handles a high volume of
mortgages with people they hardly know.  “My business operates on a relationship model, I know my
customer,” Fisher said in an e-mail. “Bank of America and the
other mega-banks operate on a transactional model.”  David Silberman, the CFPB’s associate director of research,
markets and regulations, said in an e-mail that the agency is
still considering whether “adjustments to particular rules for
smaller entities are warranted in particular circumstances.” He
also argued that compliance costs can decline if rules are
clearer.  Time and Money  “A lot of time and money gets spent just trying to figure
out what the rules mean and how to comply,” Silberman said.  The agency, which was created by the Dodd-Frank law of
2010, released its 1,099-page proposal with simplified forms on
July 9. Fine said the sight of it made him “physically ill.”
Some Republicans strongly criticized the proposal at a July 24
hearing with Cordray.  In a memo prepared for an Aug. 1 hearing with Cordray, the
House Small Business Committee staff described the proposal as
“as long as War and Peace but it is probably not as interesting
to read, and it is about as indecipherable as if you were an
English speaker trying to read the novel in Russian.”  Cordray defended the proposal at both hearings.  “Only a small portion of that is the actual rule,”
Cordray said on July 24. “Much of it is the kind of
explanation, procedure, detail, analysis that Congress has told
us they want to require before we write a rule.”  209 Pages  In a July 31 post on its blog, the CFPB said that 209 pages
of the proposal are actual regulations that lenders will have to
follow. An additional 205 pages are explanatory “guidance”
that help companies avoid misunderstandings.  Another 684 pages include results of the agency’s consumer
testing of the forms, a cost-benefit analysis, and specific
questions for public comments on the proposal.  Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the  Cato Institute , a research group that promotes free markets,
described the CFPB’s effort at transparency as good even if
releasing a 1,099-page proposal on simplified mortgages was a
public relations misstep.  “It’s legitimate enough to say, ‘Hey, a lot of this is to
make the process more transparent,’” Calabria said in an
interview. “In truth, you’re probably damned if you do, and
damned if you don’t.”  The agency’s proposal received a positive review from a
group of small businesses that were asked for feedback,
according to an  April 23 report  posted on the CFPB website.  Prototypes Preferred  The companies “strongly preferred” the prototypes created
by the agency under a mandate included in the Dodd-Frank law,
according to the report.  “These costs would be less burdensome if the CFPB provided
a substantial compliance period to upgrade systems and to train
staff,” according to the report.  Despite the positive language about the actual proposal,
Fine and other community bank representatives said that only a
tiered regulatory system will definitively ease regulatory
compliance costs.  “I still think their intentions are legitimate in trying
to go easy on community banks,” Larry Winum, president of the
 Glenwood State Bank  in Glenwood,  Iowa . “But I don’t think we’ve
gotten close to that yet.”  In the proposal, the CFPB said the one-time compliance
costs would run to about $100.1 million. Cordray argued in the
Aug. 1 hearing that the rule would ultimately save the industry
money by simplifying the process.  Community banks tend to have balance sheets dominated by
assets such as commercial and industrial loans and liabilities
such as consumer deposits. Larger banks might have more
securities as assets.  Concessions Won  As the price for remaining neutral on Dodd-Frank before its
passage in 2010, banks with less than $10 billion in assets won
concessions that included an exemption from direct supervision
by the CFPB, but not an exemption from CFPB regulations. Dodd-
Frank gives the CFPB the authority to create regulatory carve-
outs for smaller banks in some circumstances, but doesn’t
require them.  Proposals that ease rules on community banks are expected
to draw opposition from larger companies and consumer groups.
 Richard Hunt , head of the Consumer Bankers Association, a group
comprised of the retail divisions of large banks, said
exemptions would hinder “a level playing field.”  Disclosure rules that apply to only part of the industry
defeat the purpose of allowing customers to seek out the best
deal, Cohen, the consumer attorney, said.  “The goal of disclosure is to help consumers shop and
compare apples to apples,” Cohen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  