-- Smith & Nephew Lifts Dividend 50% With Interim Payout
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-02T15:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/smith-nephew-lifts-dividend-50-with-interim-payout.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest
maker of artificial hips and knees, raised its  dividend  50
percent and said it plans to increase the payout in line with
earnings growth.  Stockholders will receive an interim dividend of 9.9 cents
a share Oct. 30, the London-based company said in a statement
today. Based on the new policy, shareholder could get 16.2 cents
a share for the final 2012 dividend, Chief Financial Officer
Adrian Hennah said on a conference call with reporters today.  The dividend was a “positive surprise” and could put
Smith & Nephew among the more high-yielding medical technology
companies in Europe, Ingeborg Oie, an analyst with Jefferies
International Ltd. in  London , said in a note to investors today.
The new policy won’t prevent the company from making
acquisitions, Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon said during
a call with analysts.  “We have a number of exciting opportunities under review
and we are working in a very disciplined manner to ensure we
move these forward,” he said.  The company would borrow money to make a big acquisition if
the opportunity arises, Hennah said. The company has said it
wants to invest in wound care, minimally-invasive surgery and
emerging markets such as  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and  China .  Progressive Dividend  Smith & Nephew rose 2.4 percent to 675 pence at the close
of trading in London, the biggest jump since May 3.  Under the so-called progressive dividend policy, Smith &
Nephew will increase the payout over time “broadly based on the
group’s underlying growth in earnings, while taking into account
capital requirements and cash flows,” the company said.  Second-quarter trading profit, which excludes some costs,
fell to $234 million from $236 million a year earlier. Earnings
were in line with the average analyst estimate compiled by
Bloomberg, and the company left its forecast for 2012 unchanged.  Earnings per share of 18.1 cents were unchanged from the
year-ago period, and were in line with the 18-cent average of 12
analyst estimates.  The medical device manufacturer is cutting jobs and
investing more in  emerging markets  and research and development
as shrinking economies in Europe lead to a drop in sales. The
company announced plans in February to reduce its 11,000-person
 workforce  by 7 percent over three years to help save $150
million a year.  Sales Decline  Revenue fell 4.5 percent to $1.03 billion, compared with
the average estimate of $1.04 billion from 13 analysts. Because
Smith & Nephew reports earnings in dollars, the currency’s gains
in the past year have reduced the company’s revenue from
business outside the U.S.  Knee-replacement sales increased 3 percent during the
quarter while hip-replacement revenue fell 5 percent, which the
company attributed to negative sentiment on metal-metal
implants. Sales from sports-medicine joint repair rose 10
percent.  Sales at Advanced Surgical Devices, which includes
orthopedics and endoscopy, declined to $774 million from $819
million a year earlier. Advanced Wound Management slipped to
$255 million from $258 million.  Revenue Forecast  Smith & Nephew still expects revenue from the sports
medicine and advanced wound-management units to expand more
quickly than the market, while orthopedic reconstruction will
probably grow at close to the industry rate and orthopedic-
trauma revenue gains will be slower.  Pricing pressure in orthopedics “is becoming less of an
issue as the market has adjusted to this new norm,” Jefferies’s
Oie said.  While Smith & Nephew saw a pick-up in the U.S. during the
quarter, much like its bigger rivals  J&J (JNJ)  and Biomet Inc., Bohuon
said he was reluctant to call it a trend. He said pricing
pressure was stable. The European market may get tougher in the
second half of the year, Hennah said. If exchange rates remain
the same, total sales and profit will likely be reduced about 3
percent, Hennah said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  