-- Smith Rules Out U.S. Having Aircraft Carrier Base in Perth
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-02T02:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/smith-rules-out-u-s-having-aircraft-carrier-base-in-perth-1-.html
Australia  is opposed to the idea of
the U.S. operating an aircraft carrier base at the HMAS Stirling
naval port in Perth after a think tank suggested the possibility
in a report to Congress.  “The only thing we will consider will be greater access”
by the U.S. military to the base, as previously announced,
Defense Minister Stephen Smith said in an interview on
Australian Broadcasting Corp. television today. “We have made
it crystal clear from the first moment that we don’t have U.S.
military bases in Australia, we don’t see the need for that.”  Marines are being deployed in Australia’s northern region
under a plan announced by President  Barack Obama  and Prime
Minister  Julia Gillard  in November. The increased military
presence is part of a U.S. push to boost its footprint in the
Asia-Pacific, including a bid to strengthen naval defenses in
the  Philippines , as China’s military power grows.  The proposal to base a U.S. aircraft carrier and supporting
fleet in Perth, Australia’s biggest western coast city on the
 Indian Ocean , is one of four options set out in a report by the
Washington-based  Center for Strategic and International Studies 
commissioned by the U.S. Defense Department and due to be
presented to Congress today, the Sydney Morning Herald newspaper
reported. The center considered how the U.S. military could
undertake the so-called “pivot” in the Asia-Pacific announced
by Obama last year in response to China’s increasing influence,
it said.  Construction Costs  Basing a nuclear-powered  aircraft carrier  at HMAS Stirling
would “require significant construction costs” because the
port is not nuclear carrier-capable, according to the report.
The Defense Department should move more ships to the Pacific and
better define its strategy as it pivots toward  Asia  to counter a
rising China, it said.  “It’s a suggestion by an independent think tank,” Smith
said. “It’s not one we’re proposing to take up.”  People “should be very careful to ascribe a view of an
independent think tank which has been presented publicly as a
requirement by the  U.S. Congress  as in any way reflecting the
view of the U.S. government.”  When Obama in November announced plans to deploy as many as
2,500 Marines in Australia’s north, he said it sent a “clear
message” of U.S. commitment to the region and that the U.S.
wasn’t attempting to contain China. Australia needs to bolster
the defense of its energy and mining assets on its northwestern
coast, according to a review commissioned by the government that
was released in January.  Talks With Australia  The U.S. is engaged in discussions with Australia on what
kinds of facilities it would be using in the country, Robert
Scher, the deputy assistant secretary of defense for plans at
the  Department of Defense , told a sub-committee of the House of
Representatives Committee on Armed Services in  Washington 
yesterday.  “To be clear, we are not looking to establish a U.S. base
in Australia or anywhere outside of U.S. territory,” Scher
said, according to a transcript. “We are looking to use shared
facilities.”  The talks with Australia are at an early stage and it’s too
soon to have a measure of the cost of any projects, Scher said.  “Down the track, because of the growth of India and the
importance of the Indian Ocean rim, in due course we would look
at great naval access to HMAS Stirling, our Indian Ocean port,”
Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  