-- Smokers in U.S. Switch to Pipes, Cigars From Cigarettes
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-08-02T19:03:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/smokers-in-u-s-switch-to-pipes-cigars-from-cigarettes.html
People in the U.S. are smoking more
cigars and pipe tobacco even as cigarette use declines, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found.  Pipe tobacco smoking increased more than fivefold and cigar
use more than tripled from 2000 to 2011, according to findings
published today by the CDC in its  Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report .  Total consumption of all smoked tobacco products declined
27.5 percent during the period while the reduction was only 0.8
percent from 2010 to 2011, the Atlanta-based health agency
reported. Cigarette consumption continued its more than decade-
long decrease, dropping 2.5 percent from 2010 to 2011.  “We are making less progress,” said Terry Pechacek, the
associate director for science in the CDC’s Office of Smoking
and Health, in a phone interview today. “The smoke from a
burned product is just about as dangerous, no matter what source
it comes from.”  The CDC, in its report, and anti-smoking advocates
attributed the increase in cigar and pipe smoking to changes in
tobacco company practices and federal tax policies that make the
products less expensive than cigarettes.  The U.S. raised taxes in 2009 on a carton of cigarettes to
$10.07 from $3.90 and raised taxes on an equivalent amount of
roll-your-own cigarette tobacco to $10.07 from 45 cents. Pipe
tobacco levies rose to $1.15 from 45 cents.  ’Manipulate’ Products  “It’s totally a phenomenon reflecting that companies
manipulated their products to avoid taxes,” Danny McGoldrick,
research director at the Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids in
 Washington , said today by telephone. “They started mislabeling
roll-your-own cigarette tobacco as pipe tobacco and paying the
lower tax on it.”  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the largest U.S. seller of tobacco, said
it didn’t support having more than one level of taxes.  “Altria and its tobacco operating companies believe that
little cigars and roll your own tobacco should pay the same tax
as cigarettes, as Congress intended,” David Sylvia, a spokesman
for Altria, said in an e-mail. “The companies support
legislation at both the state and federal level to ensure
that taxes on little cigars and roll your own are taxed the same
as cigarettes.”  R.J. Reynolds  Tobacco Co. doesn’t market loose or roll-
your-own tobacco, or cigars and couldn’t comment,  David Howard ,
a spokesman for the subsidiary of  Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) , said
in an e-mail.  Gregg Perry, a spokesman for Lorillard Tobacco Co., said he
hadn’t read the report and declined to comment. Reynolds and
Lorillard, respectively, are the second- and third-biggest U.S.
cigarette makers.  Lower Cost  Consumers have begun purchasing pipe tobacco and using
machines available at many stores to roll hundreds of cigarettes
in minutes for a lower cost than they would pay for the pre-
rolled product, Michael Tynan, a CDC analyst who was the
report’s lead author, said in a phone interview.  Differences in manufacturing and marketing restrictions,
which prohibit the use of descriptors “light” or “low tar”
for cigarettes, but not for cigars and pipe tobacco may also
play a role, the report states.  “We know that a very high proportion of youth are using
this form of tobacco,” Pechacek said. Cigars can also be made
in many flavors and are inexpensive, making then appealing to
young people, he said. “All of our indicators are showing lack
of progress” in reducing tobacco consumption among young
people, he said.  Limit Differences  A law signed in July may limit the price difference between
non-cigarette smokable tobacco and cigarettes, the report
states.  A provision in the Transportation and Student Loan Interest
Rate Bill would require roll-your-own cigarette machine products
to be classified as manufacturers and subject to the same taxes
as cigarettes face, though that may be blocked by lawsuits,
Tynan said.  “This report demonstrates the need to equalize taxes on
all tobacco products and for the  Food and Drug Administration  to
regulate all tobacco products,”  Matthew Myers , president of the
Campaign for Tobacco-Free Kids, said in a statement.  A U.S. district judge ruled yesterday that R.J. Reynolds
and Lorillard can proceed with a lawsuit to block the FDA from
using advice from a Tobacco Products Scientific Advisory
Committee in making its regulatory decisions because of
potential conflicts of interest among the members.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in  New York  at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  