-- Solix BioSystems Gets $31 Million for Commercial Algae-Oil Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-02T23:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/solix-biosystems-gets-31-million-for-commercial-algae-oil-plant.html
Solix BioSystems Inc., a closely held
producer of refinable algae-oil, received $31 million from
existing investors to build its first commercial-scale
production plant.  I2BF Global Ventures  led the Series C financing, which also
included  Southern Ute Alternative Energy LLC  and Bohemian
Ventures, Solix said today in an e-mailed statement. Oil refiner
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , which invested in 2009, did not reinvest,
though it maintains a seat on the company’s board, Solix Chief
Executive Officer Joel Butler said today by telephone.  The company, based in  Fort Collins ,  Colorado , will use the
financing to build its first commercial plant, Butler said. He
wouldn’t say where the plant will be located or how much algae-
oil it will produce.  Solix has operated since 2009 its Coyote Gulch
demonstration-scale plant near Durango, Colorado, and it
produces about 2,000 gallons of algae-oil a year, Butler said.  The company’s  growth systems  consist of flexible, bag-like
containers that float in pools of water, and carbon dioxide is
pumped in to stimulate algae growth. Coyote Gulch is fed with
CO2 from a nearby natural gas well on the Southern Ute
reservation.  The algae-oil and residual biomass can be converted into
diesel and jet fuel, specialty chemicals or nutritional
ingredients, though “we have partners for the final product,”
Butler said. The company grows the algae and extracts a “crude
vegetable oil,” he said. “That’s the extent of our
processing.”  Commercial-Scale Plant  Solix still is collaborating with  BASF SE (BAS)  under terms of a
2010 agreement to develop specialty chemicals, Butler said,
though he wouldn’t name potential customers or partners for the
commercial-scale plant.  “We’ve been selling algae and algae-oil for a couple years
now,” Butler said. “But when we talk about commercialization,
we’re talking about something that can generate a positive  cash
flow ,” he said. “We will be building at a scale sufficient to
generate a positive cash flow because right now that would not
be true for Coyote Gulch.”  Algae-oil from the commercial plant will be sold for a
variety of applications, with most of the volume used to make
fuels, though higher-value applications will generate more
revenue, Butler estimated. “The co-products are where the
economic value is,” he said. “The fuel is what got us all into
this business, but when you start peeling it back, at least in
the near term, there’s more money to be made in other places.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  