-- Solyndra Report Ending U.S. House Probe Fuels Campaign Rhetoric
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-08-02T22:54:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/solyndra-report-ending-u-s-house-probe-fuels-campaign-rhetoric.html
U.S.  House Republicans  have closed
their 18-month investigation of Solyndra LLC’s loan guarantee
after issuing three subpoenas, conducting five hearings and
reviewing than 300,000 documents. Now, the issue lives on in the
presidential campaign.  Backing fledgling companies such as Solyndra, which
received a $535 million loan guarantee before it collapsed two
years later, already has become a feature in political attack
ads. Republicans and allied groups have used Solyndra as a
metaphor for what they see as President  Barack Obama ’s broader
failure to revive the economy.  “Solyndra is President Obama’s baby,” said Benjamin Cole,
a spokesman with the American Energy Alliance, an industry-
backed lobbying group that says it supports free-market
principles. “He raised it, nursed it with the milk of taxpayer
dollars and now avoids any claim to paternity.”  The alliance, which in March featured Solyndra in an ad
critical of Obama’s energy policies, plans to raise it during a
five-week bus tour in the U.S. to promote fossil fuels.  Solyndra is “a critical component” to explain to voters
why “Obama’s energy policies have failed,” Cole said.  The House Energy and Commerce Committee, after an 18-month
investigation, yesterday said Solyndra showed how a desire to
“create political events” to show off administration policies
can result in “poor decision-making.”  The  Republican National Committee  quoted extensively from
the report on its website after its release. “Solyndra was
intended to be an example of the stimulus creating jobs,” the
committee said.  Romney Ads  Already decisions by the Obama administration on the energy
loan-guarantee program have been a feature of political ads from
 Mitt Romney , Obama’s Republican opponent for the White House,
and political groups that oppose clean-energy subsidies.  Romney, in a visit to Solyndra in Fremont,  California , in
May, said its shuttered factory was a symbol of Obama’s failed
efforts to revive the economy. A Romney political ad campaign
that asks, “Where did the Obama stimulus money go?” lists
Solyndra among the answers.  The political attacks probably will continue, though by
themselves will have limited impact on the election, said
analysts such as  Bruce Oppenheimer , a political science
professor at  Vanderbilt University  in Nashville, who has studied
energy policy and politics.  “This is another piece of wood on the fire,” Oppenheimer
said in an interview. “It’s part of the Republican campaign to
talk about the lack of competence. It’s not a big piece of wood,
but they will hit on it again and again.”  No Resonance  Paul Bledsoe, a former White House energy aide to President
 Bill Clinton , said in an interview that Solyndra is part of a
broader Republican narrative that government shouldn’t meddle
with the economy.  “I don’t think that has resonance,” he said.  Critics won’t find much new material in the House
committee’s 154-page report.  Findings that the Energy Department ignored “red flags”
about Solyndra’s financial trouble in 2010 or that White House
officials were interested in promoting the company’s award
before the administration review was completed were previously
disclosed by the committee.  Democrats said yesterday that Republicans didn’t back up
allegations that Solyndra won its award because of connections
to a prominent Obama campaign donor, Oklahoma billionaire  George Kaiser , whose foundation was the leading investor in the solar
company.  ’Merit Based’  “This is month 18 of this congressional investigation and
everything disclosed in the 215,000 pages of documents, 14
committee staff briefings, 5 congressional hearings, 72,000
pages from Solyndra investors and committee interview with
George Kaiser affirms what we said on day one: This was a merit-
based decision made by the  Department of Energy ,” White House
spokesman  Eric Schultz  said yesterday in a statement.  House Democratic staff called the Republican report
“partisan and one-sided.”  One new bit of information was an e-mailed warning from an
OMB official about the Energy Department’s plan to restructure
the terms of the loan.  Kelly Colyar, an analyst at the Office of Management and
Budget, estimated the U.S. could lose about $141 million if
Solyndra shut its doors in January 2011, the report said. Losses
would expand to $385 million under the restructuring plan, she
estimated.  The Energy Department went ahead with revising the loan’s
terms, which put taxpayers behind private investors in case
Solyndra collapsed. The company filed for bankruptcy six months
after the restructuring was approved.  Solyndra ‘Perils’  “Solyndra is a prime example of the perils that come when
the federal government plays investor, tries to keep a company
and industry afloat with subsidies, and attempts to pick the
winners and losers in a particular marketplace,” the Republican
report concludes.  Energy Department officials have said the restructuring was
necessary to convince private investors to spend another $75
million to support the company.  Senior officials at the budget office, including then-
director Jack Lew, who is now the White House chief of staff,
knew about the concerns of OMB staff and decided not to
intervene, letting Energy officials determine whether to go
forward with the restructuring, according to the report.  Restructuring ‘Reasonable’  Budget officials ultimately determined the Energy
Department’s approach to the restructuring “was reasonable and
reflected the information as it was understood at that time,”
 Moira Mack , an OMB spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Solyndra filed for bankruptcy in September, firing its
1,100 workers.  “Mr. Lew and the White House owe the American people an
explanation, as they squandered hundreds of millions of
dollars,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , told
reporters yesterday.  Burdett Loomis, a political science professor at the
University of  Kansas , said voters probably will dismiss the
Solyndra controversy as “politics as usual.”  “It’s mostly grist for conservative blogs,” Loomis said
in an e-mail “The impact on the election is probably close to
nil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Geimann at 
 sgeimann@bloomberg.net  