-- Sony Cuts Net Forecast on Slowing Demand, Stronger Yen
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-08-02T06:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sony-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-on-slowing-demand-stronger-yen.html
Sony Corp. (6758) , reeling from four
consecutive annual losses, cut its full-year  profit forecast  as
 Japan ’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics suffers from
slowing demand while the yen’s gain erodes overseas earnings.  Net income  will probably be 20 billion yen ($255 million)
in the year ending March 31, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement today, lowering its May projection of 30 billion yen.
The new  forecast  compares with the 10.8 billion-yen  average  of
16 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony shares are near their lowest levels in more than three
decades after Japan’s currency gained, the global economy slowed
and consumers flocked to  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
products. Kazuo Hirai, 51, who became chief executive officer in
April, is restructuring Sony’s unprofitable TV business,
eliminating  10,000 jobs  and pledging to revive the company by
focusing on game players, digital imaging and mobile devices.  “Investors are waiting to see signs that show Sony’s
losses from making TVs and mobile phones will shrink,” Yasuo Nakane, a Tokyo-based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG, said before
the announcement. “A recovery in the TV operation may be
unlikely this fiscal year, as Sony reduced the number of models.
Sony could tap growing demand for smartphones if there is an
interesting new model to be introduced.”  Sony today also reported a first-quarter net loss of 24.6
billion yen, compared with analysts’ estimate for a loss of 1.23
billion yen.  Slashing Targets  The Japanese electronics maker cut annual TV sales target
to 15.5 million units from 17.5 million units; camera sales
target to 18 million from 21 million; and personal computer
sales to 9.2 million units from 10 million units. The smartphone
sales target was raised to 34 million units from 33.3 million
earlier.  Sony shares rose 2.4 percent to 964 yen in Tokyo trading
today, before the earnings announcement. Worth over $120 billion
in 2000, the maker of  Walkman music  players is now valued at
$12.3 billion, compared with $564 billion for Cupertino,
California-based Apple. Sony’s shares have slumped 30 percent
 this year , compared with a 50 percent jump in shares of Apple,
the maker of iPhones, iPods and iPads.  The Tokyo-based company’s run of  four straight  full-year
losses, the worst since Sony was listed in 1958, and a stronger
yen pushed the shares down to 863 yen last month, the lowest
level since April 1980.  Sony Versus Apple  Sony, the world’s third-largest TV maker, will cut 10,000
jobs, or about 6 percent of its workforce; slash costs; reduce
the number of TV models; and consider an alliance on batteries
for electric cars, Hirai said in April. Its main TV operation is
projected to be unprofitable this year after losing about 700
billion yen during the past eight years amid falling prices and
competition from Samsung and LG Electronics Inc.  “We cannot avoid facing painful decisions, but if we are
scared of pains we cannot change Sony,” Hirai said in April.
“My biggest responsibility is to revive the electronics
business and shift it into a path for growth.”  Eliminating Jobs  In 2005, Hirai’s predecessor,  Howard Stringer , said the
company would eliminate 10,000 jobs and shut 11 factories after
predicting its first annual loss in more than a decade. After
the 2008 financial crisis, Sony cut 19,500 jobs in the year to
September 2009.  Sony agreed in June with the  Development Bank  of Japan to
sell its chemical product unit for about 58 billion yen later
this year. The company also exited from a liquid-crystal-display
venture with  Sharp Corp. (6753)  by selling its 7 percent stake in the
unit for 10 billion yen after the Osaka-based company turned to
Foxconn Technology Group for a capital tie-up.  The maker of PlayStation game consoles also took steps to
offer more online services. Sony agreed in July to acquire U.S.
gaming platform company Gaikai Inc. for about $380 million as it
prepares to expand its cloud-based entertainment business. The
company introduced its Music Unlimited streaming service last
month in Japan, the world’s second-biggest music market.  Image Sensors  Sony is spending 80 billion yen to boost its production
capacity of image sensors by 33 percent by 2013, the company
said in June. It also agreed with  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  to jointly
develop TV sets that use organic light-emitting diode panels, or
OLED screens.  Last month, Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of TVs,
mobile phones and computer-memory chips, reported a record
profit of 5.19 trillion won ($4.6 billion) in the three months
ended in June, helped by surging sales of Galaxy smartphones.  Earlier this week, Panasonic reported a net income of 12.81
billion yen for the period, its first profit in six quarters,
citing cost cuts as a main reason for the recovery. The maker of
Viera TVs and Lumix cameras is also trying to turn around its
unprofitable TV business after closing plants and eliminating
36,000 jobs amid falling prices and a surging yen.  Global LCD TV shipments will probably gain 5 percent to 216
million units in 2012,  DisplaySearch said  July 10, lowering its
previous projection of 220 million. Demand is slowing due to
economic uncertainty and less price erosion than last year, the
research company said.  To revive Sony, Hirai is also boosting production capacity
for its new complementary metal-oxide semiconductors, or CMOS
sensors, that are smaller, capture better images and consume
less power than older models in cameras and phones.  The restructuring of Sony comes as the yen surged the most
against the euro of all major currencies in the second quarter
amid the  European debt crisis . That erodes profit at Japanese
exporters including Sony, which gets about 70 percent of its
sales abroad.  Sony loses about 6 billion yen of annual operating profit
and 10 billion yen of sales for every 1 yen decline in the value
of the euro, according to Mami Imada, a Sony spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  