-- Phelps Victory Helps U.S. Take Olympic Games Medals Lead
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-03T00:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/south-africa-wins-men-s-lightweight-4-gold-in-london-olympics.html
Michael Phelps  goes into his last
individual Olympic final today after capturing his record-
extending 16th career gold medal by beating U.S. teammate  Ryan Lochte  in the 200-meter individual medley.  Phelps’s win took his tally of Olympic medals to 20, also a
record. His victory was one of three for the U.S. in swimming
and six in all sports at the London games yesterday, lifting the
Americans past China in total medals. Both countries have 18
golds, with the U.S. holding a 37-34 overall advantage.  “It was hard, but it’s really nice to be able to add to my
CV,” Phelps told reporters. “It hurt and I over swam the first
100 meters, but I’m not going to complain about it.”  Rebecca Soni and Tyler Clary both set records in winning
gold in the pool for the U.S., while Gabrielle Douglas became
the third straight American to win the women’s all-around
gymnastics competition. Kayla Harrison, 22, took the women’s
under-78 kilogram title for the first American judo gold, and
the U.S. women’s eight rowing team defended its title.  The host nation jumped to fifth place in the medals table
as cyclist Chris Hoy tied a British record with the fifth gold
medal of his career, while Tim Baillie and Etienne Stott won the
two-man canoe slalom, and Peter Wilson took the men’s double
trap shooting.  Twenty-two gold medals will be awarded today, when Phelps
swims in the 100-meter butterfly final. The 27-year-old will
retire after the  London  games.  Coach’s Goal  Phelps has won two gold medals at the 2012 games, his other
coming in the 800-meter freestyle relay. In winning another
yesterday, he became the first male swimmer to claim gold in the
same individual event at three straight Olympics.  “He did not have it on his goal sheet but for me that was
important,” Bob Bowman, Phelps’s coach, told reporters. “Just
because that was cool.”  Phelps finished fourth in his first final of the games
before taking silver in the 200-meter butterfly.  Track and field gets under way today, with finals in the
men’s shot put and the women’s 10,000 meters. Medals will also
be decided in archery, badminton, track cycling, fencing, judo,
rowing, shooting, trampoline and weightlifting. Four swimming
finals will be held at the Aquatics Center.  Also today,  Serena Williams  of the U.S. will play  Victoria Azarenka  of Belarus for a place in the women’s tennis final at
Wimbledon, while Russians Maria Sharapova and  Maria Kirilenko 
will contest the other semifinal.  Murray Plays  Wimbledon champion and world No. 1  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland  plays Argentina’s Juan Martin del Potro and Serbia’s
Novak Djokovic faces Britain’s  Andy Murray  to decide the lineup
for the men’s gold-medal match.  Phelps led from the start in winning the 200-meter
individual medley in 1 minute, 54.27 seconds, 0.63 seconds ahead
of Lochte, who celebrates his 28th birthday today.  Lochte said the silver medal was “not the color I wanted”
and that he won’t swim again in London, taking himself out of
contention for the 400-meter medley relay Aug. 4.  “I’m done,” he said. “It’s my birthday and for the first
time in years I don’t have to swim.”  Ranomi Kromowidjojo of the Netherlands prevented a U.S.
sweep of yesterday’s swimming finals. Kromowidjojo, 21, won the
final swimming gold in the women’s 100-meter freestyle with an
Olympic record time of 53 seconds. Aliaksandra Herasimenia of
Belarus took the silver and  China ’s Tang Yi was third. American
Missy Franklin was fifth.  World Record  Soni, 25, won the women’s 200-meter breaststroke in
2:19.59, breaking the world record of 2:20.00 she set two days
ago in the semifinals. Clary, 23, then beat  Japan ’s Ryosuke
Irie, 22, and Lochte to win the men’s 200-meter backstroke in an
Olympic record 1:53.41.  Douglas finished 0.259 points ahead of Russia’s Victoria
Komova to win the all-around gymnastics title. The 16-year-old
from  Virginia  also won gold in the team event two days ago. It’s
the first time the U.S. has won both competitions at the same
Olympics.  Douglas had 62.232 points after finishing first in two of
the four parts of the competition.  “It feels amazing to be called Olympic champion,” Douglas
told reporters. “So much effort, hard work, determination and
passion in the gym.”  The 17-year-old Komova, performing last in the final floor
exercise, scored 15.100 when she needed 15.359 to win the gold.  Five Golds  Hoy, Philip Hindes and Jason Kenny set two world marks in
winning the track cycling men’s team sprint. They first posted a
time of 42.747 seconds in the three-lap heat, breaking  Germany ’s
record of 42.914 set last year. The trio then broke that mark in
winning the final in 42.600 seconds.  Hoy and rower Steve Redgrave share the British standard of
five gold medals. They both have six total medals, one fewer
than the British record set two days by  Tour de France  champion
Bradley Wiggins in the road cycling time trial.  “It’s pretty overwhelming,” Hoy, 36, said. “I thought my
first win in  Athens  was the most memorable for me, but this is
by far the greatest win.”  China’s Gong Jinjie and Guo Shuang appeared to have won
gold in the women’s team sprint before being demoted to second
for an overtaking infringement. That gave the gold medal to
Miriam Welte and Kristina Vogel of Germany.  Zhang Jike beat Wang Hao in an all-Chinese men’s table
tennis final.  South Africa  won its first Olympic rowing gold in the men’s
lightweight four, while Nathan Cohen and Joseph Sullivan took
the men’s double sculls for New Zealand’s first gold of the
London games.  Archery Shootout  South Korea’s Ki Bo Bae won the women’s individual archery
in a one-arrow shootout over Mexico’s Aida Roman.  France ’s
Emilie Fer took gold in the women’s kayak slalom, Tagir
Khaibulaev won Russia’s third judo gold medal in the men’s 100kg
event and  Italy  took the women’s fencing team foil.  Rafalca, which the wife of Republican U.S. presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney  owns with two other women, is in 13th
place after the first day of equestrian’s dressage.  Ann Romney  will discover today if the horse has qualified
for the next stage of the competition on Aug. 7. Half of the 50
horses competed yesterday, with the rest today. The best seven
teams go through.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  