-- Sports Spin Economic Tale for Goldman Sachs: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-08-02T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sports-spin-economic-tale-for-goldman-sachs-cutting-research.html
The sports industry provides a
snapshot of forces propelling the global economy as  emerging
markets  increasingly play host to big events such as the
Olympics.  Declaring sports “the world’s favorite growth industry,”
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Hugo Scott-Gall said athletics can
“mirror the global economy and the changing shape of it” as
developing economies such as  China  wield greater power.  With Beijing having hosted the 2008 Olympics, the torch
will pass to Rio de Janeiro in 2016 after the London Olympics
end this month.  Russia  and  South Korea  will be the locations for
the next two Winter Olympics. Russia will hold the  World Cup  in
2018 and Qatar in 2022, after  South Africa  did so in 2010. India
put on its first Formula 1 motor race in 2011 and more than a
third of Grand Prix events take place in emerging economies.  Emerging nations stand to benefit more from stadium and
transport-infrastructure building, as well as foreign investment
and higher sponsorship, as international companies look to
increase their presence, Scott-Gall, a London-based equity
analyst, said in a July 26 report.  Companies that may benefit include Hong Kong-based sports
retailer  Belle International Holdings Inc. (1880)  and Russian
construction company OAO Mostotrest, according to the report.  At the same time, richer economies have less need to play
host because they already have such amenities as transport
systems. Given expenditure on such events tends to exceed
initial budgets, he noted that Rome has withdrawn its bid for
the 2020 Olympics. Cash-strapped  Madrid  remains a contender.  * * *  Robots may be to blame for the weakness in the U.S. labor
market, according to hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP.  SLJ founders Stephen Jen and Fatih Yilmaz said in their
July 30 report that technological advances may be progressing at
a rate too fast for workers to adjust or to retrain, prompting
their replacement.  “The high spending on  capital expenditures  (i.e.,
technology) but low hiring in the U.S. in the past two years is
consistent with this view that companies are replacing certain
types of labor with technology,” London-based Jen and Yilmaz
said.  The workers at most risk of this development are those in
mid-skilled jobs, given robots are unlikely to be designed for
working as restaurant staff or advanced enough to be doctors,
the report said, citing the research of  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology  economist  David Autor .  While the U.S. and China suffer from the rise of the robot,
substituting technology for jobs may be good for societies with
aging labor forces such as  Japan , SLJ said.  * * *  The economies of the Philippines,  Malaysia  and  Thailand 
need to grow faster than in the past if they are to avoid being
stuck in an income trap.  That’s the conclusion of economists at HSBC Holdings Plc,
who studied what happens when growth rates slow so much as an
economy matures that the country’s per-capita income fails to
enjoy any meaningful rise.  The Philippines, for example, is now in the lower-middle-
income bracket. To move to the higher-middle-income rank, its
income per capita would need to expand 4.5 percent through 2020
and 5.1 percent beyond, said economists Frederic Neumann and
Sanchita Mukherjee. Still, over the past decade it has only
gained 3.1 percent on average, they said.  Elsewhere in  Asia , China may fare better in its push to
rise beyond upper-middle-income status. To move to the high-
income tax bracket, average annual per capita income growth
would need to be 4.7 percent until 2020 and 5.3 percent in the
next decade. The past 10 years witnessed average income growth
of 9.9 percent, suggesting it may be possible, said HSBC.  * * *  Texas border towns such as El Paso are now reaping the
rewards of their close proximity to Mexico after years of pain
following 1994’s introduction of the  North American Free Trade
Agreement , a Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas   report  showed.  “El Paso and other border cities are no longer at the edge
of the U.S., but at strategic locations in an emerging North
American market,” economists Robert Gilmer and Roberto Cornado
said in the study, which was published this month.  Their research found that every year from 2001 to 2010, six
sectors contributed 6.5 percentage points to household earnings
growth, with the bulk of new jobs in finance, professional
services and management. The increase, mirrored by a convergence
in per-capita income toward the U.S. average, is supported by
continued integration of U.S. and Mexican industrial production
and by higher competitiveness south of the border.  The uplift marks a reversal from the loss of El Paso’s
apparel industry following NAFTA’s implementation, when it
became the biggest recipient of compensation and worker-
retraining funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  