-- Stop Bashing DeMarco for Mortgage Aid Ruling
-- B y   A n t h o n y   B .   S a n d e r s
-- 2012-08-02T23:00:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/stop-bashing-demarco-for-mortgage-aid-ruling.html
The Obama administration was shocked
 this week  when a federal regulator did his job.  It began when Edward DeMarco, the acting director of the
 Federal Housing Finance Agency , said Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac 
couldn’t extend mortgage reductions to troubled homeowners who
owe more than their property is worth. The administration had
been  pressuring  DeMarco, whose agency oversees the taxpayer-
supported mortgage giants while they are in conservatorship, to
permit them to eliminate a portion of the loan amount owed to
the lender or investor.  “The potential benefit was too small and uncertain
relative to known and unknown costs and risks,” DeMarco  said .
This view contradicted the conclusions of a recent  report  by his
agency stating that  Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac would benefit by
$1.8 billion if principal reductions were allowed. Advocates of
the program  have argued  it benefits both borrowers and
taxpayers, because it can be used to avoid costly foreclosures.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  was quick to object.
“The use of the targeted principal reductions by the GSEs,” he
said, referring to the government-sponsored enterprises, “would
provide much-needed help to a significant number of troubled
homeowners.”  That would be a hasty conclusion. There are 13
administration loan-modification programs already. They include
the  Home Affordable Modification Program  (commonly called HAMP)
and the revamped  Home Affordable Refinance Program , called HARP
2.0.  Multiple Programs  There is also the so-called attorneys general settlement, a
conglomeration of changes in loan-service standards that
includes principal-reduction requirements for modifying loans,
and other measures to lower homeowners’  mortgage debt . In
addition, the Treasury Department’s Hardest Hit Fund helps
underwater borrowers in the same states. Rather than turning
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac into a supercharged HARP, DeMarco
showed wise judgment by waiting to see how all these programs
play out.  And why the rush by Geithner? Fannie and Freddie have 4.6
million  underwater borrowers  -- less than half the national
total of 11 million -- and 75 percent of them are current on
their loans.  It is wise to wait for other reasons as well. There is a
mortgage  refinancing  wave in progress, with HARP volume
representing 20 percent of all refinancings in May. And states
have their own efforts.  Proposals keep popping up. Recently, San Bernardino County
in California said it was considering the  use of eminent domain 
to seize loans from private-label mortgage-backed securities and
to write down the principal on those loans. If that action is
determined to be constitutional and becomes a popular tactic
used by local governments, we could see a dramatic change in the
fortunes of mortgage investors for the worse since it could
alter the cash flows they will receive.  On top of all these developments, the  U.S. Senate  is
considering yet another change in the HARP 2.0 program,
sponsored by Democratic Senators  Robert Menendez  and  Barbara Boxer . Their bill proposes to streamline refinancing of
mortgages held and insured by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac -- akin
to removing the safety from a torpedo.  Studies of small principal-reduction programs show that
they can work in lowering  default . But the Obama administration
is talking about a major change in policy without evidence
showing how it would actually work.  Moral Hazard  The Federal Housing Finance Agency is also concerned about
the moral hazard aspect. If the Treasury Department essentially
puts up signs saying, “If you’re 90 days late on your mortgage,
you’ll get a Fannie/Freddie principal reduction,” imagine how
many households would suddenly stop paying their  mortgages .  Finally, we should look at the big picture. Why should
federal taxpayers be held responsible? Someone in  Texas 
shouldn’t be paying for someone’s principal reduction in
 California . We shouldn’t expect cities to cover the loan
balances of other cities. The better alternative is to promote
economic growth and lower unemployment in the suffering cities.  Of most concern is the government’s potential invasion into
the private sector, whether through forced loan modifications or
eminent domain. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are private
corporations that happen to be in conservatorship. Should the
federal government really be mandating what Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac do with their loans or mortgage-backed securities?  Continual shocks to the housing and mortgage markets are
counterproductive, and that is what the Obama administration is
risking. While the administration may not agree with DeMarco’s
decision this week, it should recognize that he took his charge
as regulator seriously, rather than acting as a mere
facilitator. The FHFA can reconsider the principal-reduction
decision -- after the presidential election in November.  (Anthony B. Sanders is a professor of finance at  George
Mason University  and senior scholar at the  Mercatus Center . He
writes the  ConfoundedInterest Econ Blog . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
 Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind  “you didn’t build
that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Richard
Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic fencing ; Mohamed
El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the world; Handel
Reynolds on  cancers we don’t need to know about .  To contact the writer of this article:
Anthony B. Sanders at  asander7@gmu.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 