-- Sun Pharmaceuticals of India Said to Eye Germany’s Stada
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-08-03T04:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/sun-pharmaceuticals-of-india-said-to-eye-germany-s-stada.html
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) ,
India’s largest drugmaker by market value, is looking for
acquisitions in Europe including a possible takeover of German
generic-drug maker  Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , people familiar with
the matter said.  Sun has sought to raise about $1 billion for a European
deal, said one person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be identified as the process is private. Company executives
recently toured Europe to meet with potential targets, another
person said.  Sun’s billionaire founder, Dilip Shanghvi, has followed a
strategy of acquiring under-performing or unprofitable companies
and merging their operations into the Mumbai-based drugmaker.
Sun bought controlling stakes in 10 companies in the past 14
years, including the acquisition of a majority stake in Israel’s
 Taro Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TARO)   “We believe that Sun may look at larger-size acquisitions
going forward,” Saion Mukherjee and Aditya Khemka, Mumbai-based
analysts for Nomura Holdings Inc., said in a May 31 report.  Stada, based in Bad Vilbel,  Germany , fell 6.3 percent to
close at 23.95 euros in Frankfurt trading yesterday, giving the
company a market value of 1.4 billion euros ($1.7 billion). The
stock declined after Deutsche Bank AG said the company will
report “slightly weaker earnings momentum” next week and cut
its stock-price prediction to 32.5 euros from 34 euros. The
decline pared the stock’s gain this year to 24 percent.  Stock Gain  Sun  fell  0.7 percent to 651.4 rupees at 9:26 a.m. in Mumbai
trading, valuing the company at 672 billion rupees ($12
billion). The stock has climbed 31 percent this year, compared
with a 23 percent return for the 17-company BSE  India  Healthcare
Index.  A spokesman for Sun said the company wasn’t in talks to buy
Stada. A spokesman for Stada declined to comment on a potential
deal.  Sun has about $927 million of cash reserves and may seek
acquisitions to broaden its geographic breadth or enhance its
presence in the U.S., according to Nomura.  A Sun acquisition of Stada would be “a surprising deal”
if the Indian company’s main goal is to grow in the U.S., Odile Rundquist, a Geneva-based analyst for Helvea SA, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “I don’t really see the
attraction,” Rundquist said. She has a neutral rating on
Stada’s shares.  Sales in Europe  The Mumbai-based company began exporting drugs to Europe in
2010. Last year, 42 percent of the company’s sales were branded
drugs in India, 39 percent were generic medicines in the U.S.
and 11 percent were branded generics in other regions including
Europe, according to its 2011 annual report.  Sun’s chairman is Israel Makov, a former chief executive
officer of  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  who helped build
that company into the world’s biggest generic-drug company.  Nearly 96 percent of the 1.72 billion euros that Stada
receives from medicine sales came from Europe, with Germany and
 Russia  being the two biggest markets, according to its 2011
annual report.  Stada would consider merging with a similar-sized branded
or biotechnology drugmaker, Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Retzlaff said in October. The company has been the subject of
takeover speculation in the past, and the acquisitions of
similar-sized competitors Ratiopharm GmbH and  Actavis Group hf 
have widened the gap between it and generic-drug industry
leaders.  Stada acquired Serbia’s Hemofarm Koncern AD in 2006 for 480
million euros, the company’s biggest acquisition and part of a
push to shift manufacturing capacity as well as sales into
eastern  Europe . The company took a 96.9 million-euro writedown
before taxes in the third quarter last year for unpaid bills
from its Serbian business.  Pharmacists and doctors own about 12 percent of the shares
in Stada, which was founded in Dresden in 1895 as a pharmacists’
cooperative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  