-- Suzlon Bonds Rally Most in Two Years on Redemption
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-08-02T08:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/suzlon-bonds-rally-most-in-two-years-on-redemption.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  handed its
convertible bondholders the biggest monthly gain in more than
two years after  India ’s largest wind-turbine maker redeemed $360
million of debt and averted default.  The company’s $175 million zero-coupon note due July 2014
rallied 8 percent in July, the most since December 2009, pushing
yields down to 29.1 percent from 32.7 percent, prices from Elara
Capital Plc. show. Its debt due October 2012 gained 2.3 percent.
India’s equity-linked notes rose 1 percent last month,
underperforming the 2 percent return on South Korean and Hong
Kong bonds, Barclays Plc indexes show. Comparable U.S.
securities returned 0.8 percent.  Suzlon shares have  jumped  8.8 percent since July 27, when
the Pune-based company repaid bondholders with the proceeds from
bank loans and asset sales amid intense competition and an
industry supply glut. The redemption came on the last day of the
45-day grace period it had sought to avoid default after sales
slowed due to the debt crisis in  Europe . Sun Global Investments
Ltd. and Acropole Asset Management are among holders of the
turbine maker’s debt.  “There is reason to be a bit optimistic on Suzlon after
the spate of bad news,” Raj Kothari, a convertible bond trader
at Sun Global in  London , said in a July 30 telephone interview.
“Confidence is restored to some extent.”  Suzlon redeemed the convertible bonds after borrowing $300
million from 11 lenders including  State Bank of India  and ICICI
Bank Ltd., according to a person familiar with the matter.  Asset Sales  Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia had said on June 25
the turbine maker expects to raise $60 million by selling a
factory in  China  and, on July 26, Suzlon announced the
completion of a sale of wind-farm assets in India for $40
million.  Suzlon posted three straight years of  losses  and is seeking
to reduce debt and increase orders. The wind-power equipment
maker reported a fourth-quarter loss of 3 billion rupees ($54.1
million) on May 25 as sales declined and finance costs
increased. The company is due to report first-quarter earnings
this month.  Repower Systems SE, its German unit, on July 31 reported
winning cumulative orders of 219 megawatts from Australia,
France, Germany, Italy and  Poland  over the last two months.
Suzlon gets more than 50 percent of its orders from Europe.  The company bought a 7.7 percent stake in Repower in 2007
and gradually expanded its holding over four years. In October
2011, it bought out minority shareholders’ remaining 4.8 percent
stake. In January this year, Suzlon  acquired  49 percent of
PowerBlades GmbH it didn’t already own for an undisclosed sum.  Funding Acquisitions  “Suzlon has been aggressively raising money to make
foreign acquisitions in a risky industry,” said Xavier Linsenmaier, a convertible bond manager at Acropole in Paris,
which manages 750 million euros ($922 million) including the
Indian turbine maker’s 2016 bonds. “Suzlon has the right
products. I hope they can deliver to make everyone happy.”  The company has $922 million in revolving facilities,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It also has $406
million of convertible bonds outstanding, including two issues
amounting to $142.2 million coming due in October 2012.  “We are working with multiple levers, including internal
accruals, sale of non-critical assets, bank loans and capital
market options to address future obligations,” Suzlon said in
an e-mailed statement today.  Rupee Risk  Suzlon faces the risk of higher costs as a weakening rupee
and slowing economic growth discourage overseas investors from
buying Indian assets, said D.K. Aggarwal, who oversees almost
$300 million as chairman of SMC Investments and Advisors Ltd.  The local currency’s 4.9 percent drop this year has made it
the worst performer among the 11 most-traded currencies in  Asia .  “The rupee is still vulnerable to external and domestic
shocks,” New Delhi-based Aggarwal said in a July 31 interview.
“That may spell a bit of a problem for convertible bonds,
including Suzlon’s debt. So, there’s no absolute comfort on the
repayment aspect.”  The rupee has tumbled almost 21 percent against the dollar
in the past 12 months while the benchmark  BSE India Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  declined 5.1 percent in the same period. The yield on the
8.15 percent government bond due June 2022 rose seven basis
points in July to 8.25 percent. It declined two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 8.21 percent as of 1:45 p.m. in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  Interest Rates  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri Subbarao on July 31
left the benchmark repurchase  rate  unchanged at 8 percent for
the second straight meeting, citing price pressures.  He raised the central bank’s  inflation  forecast to 7
percent from previous a projection of 6.5 percent, while
lowering its economic growth estimate to 6.5 percent for the
year ending March 2013 from an earlier prediction of 7.3
percent.  Gross domestic product  expanded 5.3 percent in the
three months ended March 31, the least since 2003.  Suzlon’s zero-coupon bond due Oct. 10 has climbed every
month since February, pushing its yield down to 51.7 percent
from 70 percent at the beginning of the year, according to
prices from Elara Capital. Its 7.5 percent note, which matures
on the same day, has also rallied in the past five months,
cutting its yield to 58.8 percent from 68.4 percent.  “For those who are comfortable with Suzlon’s credit for
the next three months, the next attractive opportunity is the
October 2012 bonds,” said Mikhail Filimonov, a New York-based
managing partner at Odyssey Investment Management LLC., which
manages  hedge funds  with $150 million of assets and owned bonds
that Suzlon redeemed on July 27. “We are pleased the company
did whatever it needed to do to service its debt.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at   jregan19@bloomberg.net  