-- Suzuki May Revise Profit Forecasts on India Stoppage, EVP Says
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-08-02T08:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/suzuki-may-revise-profit-forecasts-on-india-stoppage-evp-says.html
Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  Executive Vice
President Toshihiro Suzuki and Senior Managing Officer Toyokazu
Sugimoto comment on the outlook for the company’s operations in
India after its  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  unit suspended
production following a riot at its Manesar plant on July 18.  They spoke in  Tokyo  at a first-quarter results briefing.  On restarting production:  “The local Haryana police are still investigating the
incident and there are still suspects. We will prepare for the
restart of production after the investigations are completed and
announce it as soon as we’re ready.  ‘‘The facilities were not damaged, which is good news, but
with our workers affected, the mental health care of our workers
may become important. Until we confirm the safety and health of
our workers, we are not in a situation to talk about when we
will able to resume business in the country.’’  On the company’s earnings forecast:  ‘‘The current forecast does not reflect any impact from our
Indian operations, and we are currently assessing our earnings
forecast over the situation in  India . We will revise our
forecast if we see the need to do so.  ‘‘Our current forecast was fairly conservative to begin
with, but whether we will need to revise will depend on the
situation in Manesar.’’  On the effect of its business in India on earnings:  ‘‘About 40,000 to 50,000 cars are built at the Manesar
factory. For every day that production is suspended, the retail
revenue at Maruti is reduced by about 1 billion yen.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  