-- Swimmer’s 56-Hour London Odyssey Comes Down to Seconds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-08-03T09:55:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/swimmer-s-56-hour-london-odyssey-comes-down-to-a-second-in-pool.html
It took Ann-Marie Hepler 56 hours to
travel from a remote island in the  Pacific Ocean  to the  Olympic
Games  in London, where the 16-year-old swimmer spent just over
28 seconds competing in the pool.  Hepler traded a 25-yard (23 meter) saltwater pool in the
Republic of the Marshall Islands for a 50-meter one inside the
250 million-pound ($389 million) Aquatics Centre in the east end
of the U.K. capital. Her two-day journey to London included
layovers in Honolulu and  Washington .  “I’ve come here to improve my time,” Hepler said in an
interview before the event. “Since this is my first one, I’m
just here to get myself out there and experience it. I think
we’re one of the furthest but it’s definitely worth it.”  Hepler swam the 50-meter freestyle in 28.06 seconds,
improving on her qualifying time of 28.43 seconds and finishing
third in her heat. The heat was won in 27.74 seconds by Joyce
Tafatatha, a 14-year-old from Malawi who is the only swimmer in
the qualifying group younger than Hepler.  Ranomi Kromowidjojo of the Netherlands, winner of the 100-
meter freestyle last night, was fastest in the heats today with
a time of 24.51 seconds. She’ll go through to the semifinals
along with swimmers including defending Olympic champion Britta Steffen of  Germany , holder of the world record at 23.73 seconds.  8,362 Mile Flight  The  Marshall Islands  competed for the first time at the
2008 games in Beijing with five representatives, including U.S.-
born 800-meter runner Haley Nemra. The country sent four
athletes on the 8,362 mile (13,457 kilometer) trip to London.
The islands are 181 square kilometers, about the size of Aruba.  “The Marshall Islands are 12 hours ahead of here,” said
Hepler’s coach Amy LaCost. “We were physically exhausted when
we got here” on June 15 after departing on June 13.  Some athletes at the Summer Games have traveled even
further than those from the Marshall Islands. Nazario
Fiakaifonu, who lives 1,731 miles south of Hepler, is one of
four Olympians competing for Vanuatu.  The 24-year-old arrived in London for the Summer Games two
days after leaving his home town of Port Vila and traveled via
Fiji and  Seoul .  “It was a long, long trip,” said the 271-pound islander
judo athlete. “When you come here you’re very tired and you
have to flow and catch up with the rhythm.”  Island Archipelago  He’s flown more than 10,000 miles to fight Marius Paskevicius of  Lithuania  in the over 100-kilograms judo
competition at the ExCeL Arena today. Like the Marshallese, he
doesn’t expect to be the first athlete to get Olympic glory for
his country.  “A medal would be very good for us, but I don’t think
so,” he said. “I’m a realist. I’ve been doing judo seriously
for two years. My aim is to promote my country, to represent
proudly my flag and I’ll do my best because I trained hard for
this event.”  Vanuatu, slightly larger than  Connecticut , is an island
archipelago of more than 80 isles, of which about 65 are
inhabited, according to the Central Intelligence Agency’s World
Book. Several of the islands have active volcanoes and it has a
population of about 227,570.  “I train hard but the athletes from around the world,
 France ,  England  they have a qualified person who prepares them,
good facilities,” Fiakaifonu said. “In my country we don’t
have these kinds of things; we train with what we have.”  Saltwater Pool  Marshallese swimmers train in a pool which isn’t
competition length and is filled with saltwater compared with
the less buoyant freshwater used in Olympic pools.  “In freshwater we sink so we definitely always have to
work on keeping our hips up,” the freestyle swimmer said.  Hepler, who was born in the capital of Majuro, shares the
Marshall Islands with around  62,000 other people , making it one
of the least populated countries in the world, according to a
United Nations report. At home she lives 30 seconds from the
beach and bicycle is the favored method of travel, she said.  In  London , “there are cars and it’s loud and you drive on
the opposite side of the road,” the swimmer said at the Olympic
Village. “It’s very different back at home. It’s hot all the
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  