-- Syrians in Need of Food Aid to Reach 3 Million on Conflict
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-08-02T09:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/syrians-in-need-of-food-aid-to-reach-3-million-on-conflict-1-.html
Syrians requiring food aid will
number 1.5 million over the next three to six months, especially
in areas that have seen most conflict and population
displacement, the UN’s Food & Agriculture Organization reported.  The people requiring nutritional support are expected to
reach 3 million over the next 12 months, the Rome-based agency
wrote in a  report  on its website today, citing an assessment by
the  United Nations  and the Syrian government.  Violence that started in March last year has left at least
19,000 people dead, according to the Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights , with fighting intensifying in the past few months
as troops loyal to the government clashed with rebels. Syria’s
agriculture sector has lost $1.8 billion this year as a result
of the crisis and damages to crops, livestock and irrigation
systems, according to the FAO.  “While the economic implications of these losses are quite
grave, the humanitarian implications are far more pressing,”
Muhannad Hadi, the  World Food Programme ’s Syria representative,
was cited as saying in the report. “The effects of these major
losses are first, and most viciously, felt by the poorest in the
country.”  About 1 million people need crop and livestock assistance
such as seeds,  animal feed , fuel and repair of irrigation pumps,
the FAO wrote.  Syria ’s winter-grain crop is in jeopardy because of
escalating conflict and drought, the FAO wrote in a report dated
July 26. Grain import requirements may jump to 5 million metric
tons in the year through June from 3.51 million tons in 2011-12,
the agency estimates.  “Farmers have been forced to either abandon farming or
leave standing crops unattended due to the unavailability of
labor, the lack of fuel and the rise in fuel costs, and
insecurity, as well as power cuts affecting water supply,” the
FAO wrote in the report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  