-- Syrian Rebels Attack Military Airport as Clashes Rage
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-08-02T12:02:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/syrian-rebels-shell-military-airport-in-aleppo-as-clashes-rage.html
Syrian rebels and troops loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad clashed in Aleppo as an opposition
group said insurgents used a captured government tank to shell a
military airport in the northern province.  The rebel shelling hit Menagh air base northwest of Aleppo,
Syria’s most populous city and commercial hub, the opposition
Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said today in an e-mail. The
government has been using helicopter gunships and jet fighters
to bomb rebel strongholds in the city.  The United Nations observer mission in Syria has
“confirmed that the opposition has tanks in Aleppo province,”
Juliette Touma, a spokeswoman for the mission, said by phone
today from Damascus. “We have received reports from both sides
that the opposition has them, but we haven’t seen them and we
don’t have reports they have been used.”  The fight for Aleppo is emerging as a major test for the
lightly-armed insurgents and the Syrian army. Assad said in a
speech yesterday that the “destiny of our people” depends on
the outcome of the conflict between rebels and government
forces. About 200,000 people have fled Aleppo and nearby areas,
 Valerie Amos , the UN’s top humanitarian affairs official, said
on July 29.  Food Needs  At least 22 people were killed across the country today,
the Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail.
They include 15 dead in Damascus and its suburbs, where fierce
clashes were reported, the activist group said.  About 3 million Syrians need food, crop and livestock
assistance, the Rome-based UN Food & Agriculture Organization
and the  World Food Programme  said today in a joint  statement .
About 1.5 million will need urgent assistance in the next three
to six months, they said.  Syria’s agricultural industry has lost $1.8 billion this
year because of the crisis, according to the statement.  Government soldiers and insurgents have been fighting for
control of Aleppo since last month. Until July, Aleppo and
Damascus were spared the worst of the violence since the anti-
Assad uprising began in March 2011.  Syrian authorities have shut down all communication methods
in Aleppo, Al Jazeera television reported yesterday, citing
opposition activists.  At least 180 people were killed in  Syria  yesterday, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-
mail. They included 50 people in Jdeidet Artouz and 27 in Yilda,
both suburbs of Damascus, the group said.  Refugees Targeted  Syria’s state television said on its website that
government troops pursued “terrorist” groups in the two areas,
killing and injuring many and uncovering hideouts where
explosives belts and bombs were made.  The Syrian army opened fire on a group of Syrian refugees
early today as they approached the Jordanian border and
attempted to enter the kingdom, Jordan’s Minister of State for
Media Affairs and Communications Samih Maaytah said. Some of the
refugees were slightly injured, Maaytah said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  