-- U.K.’s O’Donnell Says Banks Need to Shrink Their Balance Sheets
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-02T17:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/u-k-s-o-donnell-says-banks-need-to-shrink-their-balance-sheets.html
Gus O’Donnell , the former head of the
U.K. civil service, said banks may have to cut lending to make
them less risky and reduce their threats to the economy.  “It’s a big mistake to think of this as a normal
recession,” O’Donnell, one of the front-runners to succeed
 Mervyn King  as  Bank of England  governor, said in an interview
with Understanding Society magazine published July 11. “At the
heart of it is the financial crash - the banks got too big,
leverage was too high.”  O’Donnell’s comments were made as the central bank
introduced a new push to boost credit for companies and
households. The Funding for Lending Scheme, designed with the
U.K. Treasury, aims to provide banks with cheaper access to
funding. First announced in June, the program began yesterday
and lenders have 18 months to tap the facility.  “We have to end up with a world where the banking sector
will be smaller as a share of our GDP and the leverage will be
much, much lower and they’ll have a lot more capital,”
O’Donnell said. “Part of the way for them to do that is by
contracting their balance sheets, which means, without the
jargon, less lending.”  O’Donnell also said that a lot of large companies have
stockpiles of cash that they “do not know what to do with.”  “We need them to invest directly,” he said. “In 10 years
time the role of banks in corporate lending could be much
smaller. In addition, we will have a lot more direct lending
from individuals to small and medium enterprises.”  He added that it will be a “slow recovery” and the U.K.
needs to “diversify our exports away from the euro area.”  O’Donnell is the favorite to become the next Bank of
 England  governor, according to odds at bookmaker  Paddy Power
Plc. (PAP)  He is at 9-4, meaning a 4-pound winning bet would return a
9-pound profit. Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  is 5-2 at the
bookmaker.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  