-- U.K. Construction Expands as Report Points to Modest Recovery
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-08-02T08:50:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/u-k-construction-expands-as-report-points-to-modest-recovery.html
U.K. construction  unexpectedly
expanded in July, according to a report today that signaled that
any recovery for the industry may be modest.  A gauge of building output rose to 50.9 from 48.2 in June,
which was a 2 1/2-year low, Markit and the  Chartered Institute
of Purchasing and Supply  said in a statement in  London  today.
While the reading was higher than economists’ median forecast
and above the 50 level that divides contraction from expansion,
the index remains below its long-run average of 54.2.  The Bank of England will probably keep its  bond-purchase
target  unchanged today as policy makers wait to gauge the impact
of last month’s stimulus expansion and a plan to boost credit.
Britain’s economy shrank at the fastest pace in more than three
years in the  second quarter , dragged down by a 5.2 percent drop
in construction.  “There was some progress, with a slight boost in
performance, but the external operating environment remains
depressed,”  David Noble , chief executive officer at CIPS, said
in the statement. “Worryingly, the sharp drop in new business
means there is little chance of the sector rebounding quickly.”  Economists had forecast a reading of 48.7 for the
construction index, according to the median of nine estimates in
a Bloomberg News survey. Markit said most of the growth in July
was in the commercial sub-sector, as house building and civil
engineering activity continued to decline. A gauge of new work
declined, it said.  Manufacturing Slump  The pound erased its loss against the dollar immediately
after the report was published before slipping back. It traded
at $1.5530 as of 9.44 a.m. in London, little changed from
yesterday.  A manufacturing survey published yesterday showed that  U.K.
factory output  contracted the most in 38 months in July. Gross
domestic product fell 0.7 percent in the three months through
June, according to data last week.  The  Bank of England  will keep its target for asset
purchases at 375 billion pounds ($582 billion), according to the
median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Economists in a separate poll forecast officials will leave the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent. The bank
will announce the decision at noon in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  