-- U.S. Stocks Fall for 4th Day as ECB’s Draghi Disappoints
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-02T20:48:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/u-s-stock-futures-climb-before-ecb-meeting.html
U.S. stocks fell, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down for a fourth straight day,
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  failed to
reassure investors on immediate efforts to bolster the economy.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. and DuPont Co. dropped at
least 1.8 percent to pace losses in the biggest companies.
Knight Capital Group Inc. plunged 63 percent after saying losses
from a trading breakdown are  $440 million , more than some
analysts had estimated, as it explores strategic and financial
alternatives.  General Motors Co. (GM)  slid 2.6 percent as the
automaker said second-quarter profit slumped 38 percent.  About five stocks fell for every three that rose on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m.  New York  time. The S&P 500 lost 0.7 percent
to 1,365, dropping 1.5 percent in four days. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average declined 92.18 points, or 0.7 percent, to
12,878.88. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 7.3
billion shares, or 8.6 percent above the three-month average.  “It’s status quo,” said  Hayes Miller , who helps oversee
about $48 billion as the Boston-based head of asset allocation
in  North America  at Baring Asset Management Inc. He spoke on a
phone interview. “I don’t know why people feel that authorities
can come up with magic solutions. I don’t know that the magic
bullet exists. There are limits to what the ECB can do.”  Stocks joined a  global slump  as Draghi signaled the ECB
intends to join forces with governments to buy bonds in
sufficient quantities to ease the region’s crisis, while
conceding that Germany’s Bundesbank has reservations about the
plan. Details on the plan will be fleshed out in coming weeks,
he said after keeping the interest rate on hold at 0.75 percent.  Economic Stimulus  Yesterday, the American central bank also failed to bolster
confidence. The  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to provide additional
support for the economy disappointed investors anticipating a
more definitive sign of further monetary easing. The  S&P 500 (SPX) 
rose as much as 29 percent from its October 2011 low amid bets
the central bank would add economic stimulus.  Tomorrow’s jobs report may provide more direction toward
the Fed’s next steps to ensure the recovery is not derailed.
Payrolls rose by 100,000 after an 80,000 gain in June and the
 unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Data today showed orders placed with U.S. factories
unexpectedly fell and jobless claims rose less than forecast.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said
the world economy is suffering its severest slowdown since the
recession ended in 2009. The chief executive officer of Pimco
predicted global growth of 2.25 percent over the next 12 months.
That’s down from the 3.9 percent in 2011 and 5.3 percent in 2010
recorded by the  International Monetary Fund . The world economy
contracted 0.6 percent in 2009.  ‘Serious’ Slowdown  “This is a serious, synchronized slowdown,” El-Erian said
in an interview today.  Companies which are most-dependent on economic growth
tumbled today, with the Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index slumping
1.1 percent. Nine of 10  groups  in the S&P 500 retreated as
commodity companies had the biggest losses. Alcoa, the largest
U.S. aluminum producer, slipped 3 percent to $8.18. JPMorgan
dropped 2.3 percent to $35.17. DuPont, a chemical maker,
declined 1.8 percent to $49.02.  Investors watched the latest developments with  Knight
Capital . The shares plunged 63 percent to $2.58, extending a
two-day tumble to 75 percent. Knight has “all hands on deck”
and is in close contact with clients and counterparties as it
tries to weather trading errors that cost it $440 million, Chief
Executive Officer Thomas Joyce said.  ‘Large Bug’  Joyce said it’s “hard to comment” on discussions with
creditors and the firm explored strategic and financial
alternatives following a loss almost four times its annual
profit. The problems were triggered by what Joyce called “a
bug, but a large bug” in software as the company, one of the
largest U.S. market makers, prepared to trade with a New York
Stock Exchange program catering to individual investors.  “Technology breaks,” Joyce said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” program with  Erik
Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle  today. “It ain’t good. We don’t
look forward to it.”  Investors also watched second-quarter corporate  earnings .
About 73 percent of companies which reported quarterly results
have beaten analysts’ estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Sales missed estimates at 59 percent of companies.  GM slumped 2.6 percent to $19.14. The automaker faces
rising losses in Europe and a stagnating China market. Overseas
challenges threaten to undercut the company’s recovery even as
its domestic market is on pace for the best year since 2007.  1,000 Stores  Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (ANF)  plunged 15 percent to $29.06, the
lowest since 2009. The teen retailer with more than 1,000 stores
cut its annual forecast yesterday, citing an anticipated drop in
same-store  sales  in the second half of 2012.  Monster Worldwide Inc. (MWW)  declined 14 percent to $6.10. The
Internet recruiting service exploring a possible sale forecast
earnings that fell short of analysts’ predictions, citing
European economic weakness.  MGIC Investment Corp. (MTG)  sank 64 percent, the most ever, to 88
cents. The mortgage insurer reported its  biggest loss  since 2009
and its risk-to-capital ratio breached regulatory standards.  Apache Corp. (APA)  dropped 4.9 percent to $82.58. The independent
oil and natural-gas producer reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates after energy prices fell and
maintenance hampered production.  Parker Hannifin Corp. (PH)  slid 3.3 percent to $78.85 after the
maker of fluid power systems and air-conditioning products
forecast annual  earnings  lower than some analysts’ estimates
amid a demand slump in Europe.  DirecTV’s Results  DirecTV (DTV)  fell 2.6 percent to $48.80. The largest U.S.
satellite-television provider reported second-quarter  profit 
that trailed analysts’ estimates after posting the company’s
first net decrease in U.S. subscribers.  Sealed Air Corp. (SEE)  sank 17 percent, the biggest decline in
the S&P 500, to $13.15. The maker of Bubble Wrap posted second-
quarter earnings that  trailed  analysts’ estimates and announced
plans to pursue “strategic options.”  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  dropped 13 percent to $21.44.
The maker of International brand trucks disclosed a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission inquiry and withdrew its
full-year earnings forecast.  Bristol-Myers (BMY)  slumped 8.6 percent, the most since 2002, to
$32.55. The company lost ground in the race to develop a stand-
alone hepatitis C pill after it suspended testing of an
experimental drug for the disease that cost it $2.5 billion to
buy earlier this year.  Insider Trading  Separately, executive Robert Ramnarine was charged with
insider trading for making $311,361 in illegal profit by buying
stock options in three companies targeted for acquisition.  Facebook Inc. (FB)  dropped 4 percent to $20.04, a record low.
The shares are 47 percent below their initial public offering
price of $38. The world’s largest social-networking service last
week reported earnings that showed slowing growth.  Gap (GPS)  Inc. and  Macy’s Inc. (M)  posted July same-store sales that
beat estimates as promotions and warm weather boosted shopping
traffic. Gap, the biggest U.S. specialty-apparel retailer,
climbed 13 percent to $33.17. Macy’s, owner of its namesake and
Bloomingdale’s department stores, added 3.8 percent to $36.40.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  surged 21 percent, the biggest advance in
the S&P 500, to $17.93. The world’s biggest maker of thin-film
panels said profit jumped  81 percent  after it recognized revenue
for selling power plants.  MetLife Inc. (MET)  rose 4.2 percent to $31.70. Profit beat
estimates and more than  doubled  on gains from derivatives it
uses to protect against a decline in  interest rates .  Buyback Plan  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  jumped 14 percent to $31.79. The largest
independent refiner on the U.S. West Coast said  profit  surged 78
percent and announced a $500 million share buyback plan.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  added 2.7 percent to $87.94. The
second-largest U.S. cable-television provider reported second-
quarter profit that  beat  analysts’ estimates after gaining
broadband Internet subscribers.  Green Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc. (GMCR)  rallied 27 percent to
$22.66. The maker of Keurig brewers and single-serve pods said
third-quarter profit rose 30 percent and it will  repurchase  as
much as $500 million in shares over the next two years.  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  added 17 percent to $22. The online review
website reported second-quarter sales that topped estimates as
an expansion into new regions helped widen its user base.  Jeremy Siegel , author of “Stocks for the Long Run”, said
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pimco, is
wrong when he compares long-term returns from equities investing
to a “Ponzi scheme.”  ‘Ivory Tower’  “I like Bill Gross a lot, but he’s got the economics
wrong,” Siegel said on Bloomberg Television’s “In the Loop”
with Betty Liu. Siegel is “obviously pushing at windmills,”
Gross said today in an interview with Liu. “He belongs back in
his ivory tower,” Gross said.  In his monthly investment outlook July 31, Gross said that
the so-called Siegel Constant, which purports to show a long-
term history of inflation-adjusted equity real returns of 6.6
percent since 1912, may be a “historical freak” unlikely to be
seen again. Presuming a 2 percent return for bonds and 4 percent
nominal returns for stocks, a diversified portfolio produces a
nominal return of 3 percent and inflation-adjusted returns near
zero, Gross, who manages the $263.4 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  at
Pimco, wrote in the outlook.  “Those that are looking for double-digit returns for
stocks to pay education, to pay for retirement, are bound to be
disappointed and that’s why the cult of equity is dead,” Gross
said today in the interview with Liu. “It’s hard to see how
corporations and stocks can continue to earn 3 percent more than
GDP going forward and that’s only common sense.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  