-- Ukraine Grain Harvest Seen by Azarov Down 8 Million Tons
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-08-02T14:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/ukraine-grain-harvest-seen-by-azarov-down-8-million-tons.html
Ukraine’s grain harvest in 2012 may
be 8 million metric tons less than last year because of weather-
damage, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  The eastern European country will still have enough grain
for prices to remain stable, Azarov said today in the eastern
city of Zaporizhzhya, according to a statement on his  website .  “Because of difficult weather conditions this year, the
grain harvest will be 800,000 tons less than last year in the
Zaporizhzhya region,” Azarov said. “The harvest will be 8
million less in the current year on the whole territory of
Ukraine than last year. But unlike in 2003-2010, now we have
sufficient grain stockpiles that would allow a stable price
policy.”  Ukraine reaped a record 56.7 million tons of grain last
year. The former Soviet state may gather 45.3 million tons this
year as a dry autumn, cold winter and summer drought have
damaged crops, according to the agriculture ministry. The
government has said it won’t limit exports as it did in 2010,
when the harvest fell to 39.3 million tons following drought.  The agriculture ministry and traders signed an agreement on
July 31 under which the government undertook to give exporters
two months’ notice should it decide to restrict shipments abroad
in the marketing year that began July 1.  “The state is interested in a stable grain market,”
Agriculture Minister Mykola Prysyazhnyuk said in a  statement  on
the ministry’s website. “We will work together to control grain
exports this marketing year. For example, if more than 80
percent of potential export volumes are shipped, we will think
how to act further.”  Ukraine’s weather center cut its grain harvest forecast to
43 million tons because hot weather reduced yields, it said July
24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  