-- UN’s Syria Envoy Kofi Annan Resigns as Fighting Escalates
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-08-02T21:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/un-s-syria-envoy-kofi-annan-resigns-as-fighting-rages.html
Former United Nations Secretary-
General  Kofi Annan  abandoned his effort to mediate a cease-fire
in  Syria , saying his task was thwarted by “finger-pointing and
name-calling” in the UN’s most powerful body.  Annan blamed both sides for the increasing militarization
of the conflict, and said that a “clear lack of unity” in the
UN’s decision-making body -- where  Russia  has used its veto
three times to protect the Assad regime -- has “fundamentally
changed” his ability to be effective. His resignation as the
special envoy appointed by the UN and  Arab League  is effective
Aug. 31, and talks are under way to find his successor.  “The world is full of crazy people like me, so don’t be
surprised if someone else decides to take it on,” Annan told
reporters yesterday in Geneva.  His departure after less than six months is a blow to
international efforts to broker a diplomatic solution to the
increasingly violent conflict between Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and his opponents. What began in March last year as a
largely peaceful protest movement has morphed into a civil war
amid growing apprehension that Assad may resort to using Syria’s
large arsenal of sarin and VX nerve gas and other chemical
weapons.  Hours after Annan’s announcement, Western powers wasted no
time in blaming Russia for the failure in the peace efforts.  The “highly regrettable” and “very unfortunate” series
of vetoes “place both Russia and China on the wrong side of
history and on the wrong side of the Syrian people,” White
House press secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters on board Air
Force One en route to Florida.  ‘Mission Impossible’  In Geneva, Annan expressed his own frustrations.  He said that, while some had labeled his job as a “ mission
impossible ,” the “clear lack of unity in the  Security
Council ” compounded the difficulties he already faced because
of “Syrian government intransigence” and also because of the
“escalating military campaign of the opposition.”  Annan’s action “reflects the reality that the center of
gravity in this crisis lies on the ground within Syria, and
international diplomacy has become largely irrelevant,”  Robert Danin , a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in
 New York , said in a telephone interview. “Annan was dealt a
very weak hand and had very few cards to play.”  With the UN powerless to act, the survival of the four-
decade Assad dynasty will probably be decided on the Syrian
streets. Aleppo, Syria’s most populous city, is shaping up as
the biggest test yet of opposition fighters’ capabilities
against artillery and air power, with thousands of civilians
slipping across increasingly porous borders to seek refuge.  Extremists Threat  At least 130 people were killed across the country
yesterday,  Al Jazeera  reported, citing the opposition Local
Coordination Committees in Syria. They include 15 dead in
Damascus and its suburbs, where fierce clashes were reported,
the group said.  As the fighting has escalated, U.S. and European military
and intelligence officials are growing increasingly worried that
a fight to the death between Assad’s Alawite-dominated regime
and the largely Sunni opposition could strengthen Islamic
extremists in Syria and neighboring states.  While that would hurt Iran and Hezbollah, longtime allies
of the Assad regime, it also could leave  Israel  facing more
hostile regimes in Egypt, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon, one U.S.
and one European intelligence official said yesterday.  Symbolic Gestures  The 22-member Arab League, which suspended Syria last year,
is trying to keep diplomacy alive at the UN by calling a vote
today on a largely symbolic resolution “expressing grave
concern about Syrian authorities threat to use chemical or
biological weapons.”  Passages in the text demanding that Assad step down and
calling on states to apply economic sanctions were removed in a
bid to gain more than 100 votes in the 193-member assembly.  Russia, which sells arms to Syria, won’t back the largely
symbolic resolution because it’s “one-sided and unbalanced,”
the Foreign Ministry said in a statement yesterday.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  met with U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  yesterday in  London  before heading to see
a judo match at the Olympics. While the two leaders discussed
Syria, Cameron failed to get Putin to change his mind on backing
tougher measures to hold Assad accountable, according to a UN
Security Council diplomat who asked for anonymity because
diplomatic talks are private.  “Of course there have been some differences in the
positions we’ve taken over the Syrian conflict,” Cameron told
reporters after the meeting at his Downing Street office. “We
both want to see an end to that conflict and a stable Syria, and
we’ll continue to discuss, with our foreign ministers, how we
can take this agenda forward.”  As for Annan, Putin expressed regret at his departure and
said the former UN Secretary-General is “a very decent man and
brilliant diplomat,” according to comments reported by
Interfax.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  