-- United Coach Ferguson Says He Won’t Personally Profit From IPO
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-02T16:40:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/united-coach-ferguson-says-he-won-t-personally-profit-from-ipo.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  said he won’t benefit financially from the English
soccer club’s planned initial public offering.  United, the record 19-time English champion, is looking to
raise as much as $333 million from its  New York  listing. Details
of the plan have angered some supporters who’ve criticized a
planned “2012 Equity Incentive Award Plan” for key employees.  Supporters have protested the U.S.-based Glazer family
since it bought the club in a 790-million pound ($1.22 billion)
leveraged buyout in 2005. More than 500 million pounds have
already been paid in interest and fees associated with the
takeover, while the club has almost as much in debt. The Glazers
can cash out half of the IPO proceeds.  “In regards to suggestions that I have praised the Glazer
family because I stand to financially benefit from the proposed
IPO, there is not a single grain of truth in this allegation,”
Ferguson said in a statement released by  Manchester United 
today. “I do not receive any payments, directly or indirectly,
from the IPO.”  Ferguson helped revive Manchester United’s fortunes after
coaching the team to its first league title in 26 years in 1993.
Since then United has claimed 11 more championships and added
two European Cups.  United’s success has come even though it’s been outspent by
clubs like Chelsea and current English champion  Manchester City ,
which have billionaire owners. Fans have protested against the
Glazers, saying their debt repayment has taken money away from
Ferguson to buy players.  Manchester United’s annual revenue of more than 300 million
pounds is bigger than all its English rivals. Ferguson has never
criticized the owners, saying they’ve been “great” to work
for.  “Ultimately, I run the football side of this club and in
order to do this, you need backing from above,” Ferguson said.
“The Glazer family have let me get on with my job, there is no
interference or obstruction, only support.”  The Scottish-born coach, 70, has been at Old Trafford since
1986.  “My decisions and beliefs are not based around what is
best for my personal financial gain,” he said. “That is an
accusation that insults me. If that was the case, I would have
left Old Trafford a long time ago.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  