-- Hutchison Net Beats Estimates on U.K., China Investments
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-02T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/hutchison-profit-beats-estimates-on-higher-u-k-china-earnings.html
Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , billionaire
 Li Ka-shing ’s biggest company, posted first-half profit that
beat analysts’ estimates after boosting earnings from U.K.
utilities, phone services in Europe and retail stores in  China .  Net income  was HK$10.2 billion ($1.3 billion), or HK$2.39 a
share, the Hong Kong-based company said yesterday. That beat the
HK$9.55 billion median of five analysts’ estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey. Profit fell from HK$46.3 billion a year
earlier, when Hutchison booked one-time gains from a spinoff of
ports assets in Hong Kong and China.  Earnings were helped by investments in electricity, water
and gas networks across  England , and demand for services from
British smartphone users. Li, 84 and Asia’s richest man, plans
to make more acquisitions in Europe and add cosmetics stores in
China to reach consumers in the fastest-growing major economy.  “In telecommunications, they have stabilized their
business compared with previous years,” said Kalai Pillay,
senior director at  Fitch Ratings  in  Singapore , who assesses
Hutchison’s  debt . “In Europe, part of their strategy is to go
into very stable businesses” including retail and utilities, he
said.  Hutchison fell 1.2 percent to HK$68.65 in Hong Kong
yesterday, before the earnings announcement. The stock has
 gained  5.5 percent this year, trailing the 6.8 percent increase
in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  ‘Improve Performance’  “Despite the difficult economic situation in Europe and
continued uncertainty in the global financial markets in the
second half, barring unforeseen material adverse circumstances,
I expect that the Group’s business performance will continue to
improve,” Li said in the statement.  Li is 14th on the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  with a net
worth of $24.1 billion. Nicknamed “superman” by the local
media for his investing prowess, he opened a plastic flower
factory following World War II and began focusing on  Hong Kong 
real estate in 1967 after riots from China’s Cultural Revolution
depressed prices.  Hutchison said its 3 Group telecommunications business in
Europe earned HK$1.37 billion before interest and tax in the six
months ended June 30, or 51 percent more than the year-earlier
period. Hutchison owns phone units in six countries in Europe
including the U.K., Italy,  Austria , and Ireland.  The mobile-phone division posted its first annual profit in
2010, seven years after starting services.  The U.K. phone unit of Hutchison has a market share of 28
percent among users of Apple Inc.’s iPhone smartphone in the
country, according to a July 25 report by Morgan Stanley.  Generate Returns  The increased earnings from the  mobile-phone operations  in
the first half was “only the beginning,” Managing Director
Canning Fok said at a briefing yesterday. The division has cut
costs and improved its networks, and is expected to generate
“returns for investors,” he said, without giving a timeframe.  Hutchison doesn’t plan to enter new phone markets in Europe
and is no longer interested in renewing a bid for Eircom Group
in Ireland, Fok said.  European phone markets offer opportunities for
consolidation, Hutchison’s Finance Director Frank Sixt said.  Hutchison, with investments in ports, telecommunications,
utilities, retail, property and energy in more than 50
countries, increased first-half revenue by 3 percent to HK$115.7
billion from HK$112.3 billion, it said.  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd. (1038) , the roads and
utilities arm of Hutchison, last month said first-half profit
rose 18 percent to HK$4.7 billion. Cheung Kong Infrastructure is
leading a group of Li-affiliated companies that agreed to pay
645 million pounds ($1 billion) for gas networks operator Wales
& West Utilities Ltd., after acquiring Northumbrian Water Group
Plc and the U.K. power networks of  Electricite de France SA  in
the past two years.  Retail Growth  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE) , the Calgary, Alberta-based oil producer
part-owned by Hutchison, last month reported second-quarter
profit fell as crude prices dropped. Hutchison, owner of Hong
Kong’s PARKnSHOP supermarket stores, the A.S. Watson cosmetics
chain and brands including Marionnaud, said its retail
division’s earnings before interest and tax rose 12 percent to
HK$4 billion.  Hutchison is interested in acquiring a stake in Manchester
Airports Group, Fok said on July 29. Manchester is one of
Britain’s busiest airports outside of  London .  Phone unit 3 Austria is seeking European regulatory
approval to acquire Orange Austria in a transaction valued at
1.3 billion euros ($1.6 billion).  -- with assistance from Billy Chan in Hong Kong. Editors:
Subramaniam Sharma, Suresh Seshadri  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  