-- Vietnam Banks Break Loan Rules to Meet Demand: Mortgages
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-02T19:06:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/vietnam-banks-break-loan-rules-to-meet-demand-mortgages.html
Nguyen Thi Bich Ngoc, a hotel sales
manager in  Hanoi , is among Vietnamese buyers being lured back to
the  property market  by lower interest rates and cheaper homes.  “Until recently I didn’t have any strong intention to buy
a house,” says Ngoc, who borrowed four billion dong ($192,000)
to purchase a three-story property about 1 kilometer south of Ho
Chi Minh’s mausoleum. “Property prices are going down. Interest
rates are good. The timing is very good.”  Home loan applications have jumped since March, with buyers
lured by 500 basis points of interest rate cuts, price declines
of as much as 15 percent, and smaller, more-affordable
apartments being offered by developers. Banks are skirting rules
and may risk a cash crunch to meet demand: all have violated the
central bank’s 30 percent cap on the use of short-term funds for
loans with terms longer than a year,  State Bank  of  Vietnam 
Governor Nguyen Van Binh said July 20.  “If you increase your exposure to the mortgage market but
still have a lot of short-term funding, you will end up with a
massive funding mismatch,” said Fiachra MacCana, managing
director of  Ho Chi Minh City Securities Corp. (HCM)  “The banks
already have a massive funding mismatch, they can’t really push
it too much out there.”  At  Joint-Stock Commercial Bank for Foreign Trade of
Vietnam , the country’s largest listed lender by market value
known as Vietcombank, home loans rose more than 15 percent in
the second quarter.  Ignoring Risk  Banks are ignoring the funding risk for now, betting
mortgages are safer than commercial loans as businesses struggle
with rising inventories and an economic downturn. Total credit
expansion slowed to 0.93 percent in the first seven months from
the end of 2011, the government said July 31, compared with its
target of 14 percent to 15 percent for the full year.  “Banks now want to turn to  mortgage loans  because business
loans are not going anywhere,” said Alan T. Pham, Chief
Economist at VinaCapital Group in Ho Chi Minh City. “Banks are
afraid of more non-performing loans, more bad debt from
business, so they think that home owners are safer.”  Bad debt in the Vietnamese banking system remains on an
“uptrend,” Vu Duc Dam, chairman of the Government Office, said
at a July 31 press conference in Hanoi. Bad debts rose to 4.47
percent of total lending as of May 31, from 3.07 percent at the
end of 2011, according to the country’s central bank.  Bad Debt  Non-performing loans are “significantly understated” and
could be three or four times higher than the official estimates,
 Fitch Ratings  said in a March report. Vietnam’s finance ministry
will buy collateralized bad-debt from commercial banks to
strengthen their balance sheets under a plan to overhaul the
industry by 2015 approved by Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung in
March.  Banking stocks are up as much as 54 percent this year on
the monetary easing and plan to buy bad debt. Stocks may
continue to climb as more details of government plans to remove
bad-debt from banks’ balance sheets emerge, even as earnings are
dented by credit provisions, said Michel Tosto, director for
institutional sales and brokerage at Ho Chi Minh City-based Viet
Capital Securities.  “From a trading perspective, they will probably do well in
the next rally,” he said.  Still, banks’ ability to profit from the uptick in demand
for loans is being hindered by the lack of a long-term  bond
market , MacCana said. Of 182.4 trillion dong of outstanding
 government bonds , 15-year debt accounts for around 0.5 percent
of issuance, compared with 44 percent issued with a five-year
tenor, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Rates  Vietcombank,  rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s , has set aside 2
trillion dong for home loans between May and September, with
 interest rates  as low as 12 percent, according to Pham Thuy Nga,
director of retail banking. The lowest rate offered before the
central bank started its rate cuts was 18 percent, according to
Nga. The lender is Vietnam’s fourth biggest bank by assets.  The State Bank of Vietnam has lowered its key refinance
rate by 500 basis points since March to 10 percent, as annual
 inflation  plunged back toward single digits from a high of 23
percent in August last year.  Vietnam Joint Stock Commercial Bank for Industry and Trade ,
the country’s third-largest lender by assets known as
VietinBank, will allocate 5 trillion dong in the second half of
this year for home loans, according to a July 30 e-mailed
statement in response to questions from Bloomberg. The B+ rated
lender will offer preferential annual interest rates of 12
percent on the loans.  Debut Sale  VietinBank, the second-largest lender by market value on
the  Ho Chi Minh City  stock exchange, sold $250 million of U.S
dollar-denominated bonds, the first issue by a Vietnamese
commercial bank, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 8 percent notes due in May 2017 yield 8.38 percent,
according to prices from ING Bank NV. The notes pay the highest
coupon of any U.S. dollar bond sold by a commercial bank in
South East Asia in the last year and maturing within the next
five years, Bloomberg data show.  The State Bank of Vietnam could provide an additional boost
for home buyers before the end of 2012 by adding to its interest
rate cuts as inflation continues to slow. Vietnam’s consumer
prices rose 5.35 percent from a year earlier in July, the
smallest increase since November 2009.  “People were deferring some of their investments, trying
to understand where borrowing costs would go,” said  Simon
Morris , Chief Executive Officer of closely-held Vietnam
Technological & Commercial Joint Stock Bank, or Techcombank,
where mortgage applications have risen as much as 30 percent
since the rate cutting started. “We’re now looking at things
starting to take off.”  Economic Growth  Foreigners can invest in Vietnamese property and
securities, subject to restrictions. The combined foreign
holding in a domestic listed bank’s equity is capped at 30
percent of registered capital, with a single overseas investor’s
stake limited to 20 percent.  Vietnam’s economic development accelerated after the
government adopted its doi moi, or “renovation,” reforms in
1986. The shift to a “socialist-oriented market economy”
replaced the central economic planning pursued by the country
following formal reunification in 1976, a year after the last
U.S. forces withdrew from Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City.  The size of the  economy  more than doubled between 2005 and
2011 as foreign investors flocked to the nation, attracted by
labor costs below  China ’s. Vietnam became the 150th member of
the  World Trade Organization  on Jan. 11, 2007.  Sprawling Cities  Ho Chi Minh City and Hanoi, the two major cities, sprawled
from their centers as the expansion lured workers from the
countryside. High-rise towers and construction sites now
interrupt paddy fields to the west of Hanoi as city officials
seek to draw residents away from the capital’s labyrinthine
neighborhoods struggling to house six million people.  Vietnam’s urban population is growing 3.4 percent annually,
according to the  World Bank , with growth fastest in and around
the two biggest cities. Only about 5 percent of the population
in the two largest cities is able to afford homes currently
being produced by large developers, according to the lender.  Home prices  in Ho Chi Minh City surged almost three-fold
between 2004 and the first quarter of 2008, according to data
from  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG) ’s local unit. Values then fell as the
government raised interest rates and restricted lending for real
estate and other so-called “non-productive” sectors, in a bid
to tackle inflation.  New Buyers  Residential prices fell as much as 15 percent since the
first quarter of 2011 in Hanoi, according to CBRE. Renewed
demand from the nation’s growing professional class has prompted
developers to build more-affordable housing, whose prices have
fared better than luxury and high-end housing.  Ho Chi Minh City-based  Nam Long Investment Corp . will Aug.
4 begin marketing the first 330 of 14,000 affordable units it
plans to build in the next five years, the closely held
company’s Chief Operating Officer Tran Nguyen said. The price
for a typical 49 square meter unit will start at around $30,000.  “Seventy percent of buyers are first-time buyers, young
couples,” he said, referring to 900 affordable units the
company sold in a previous development. “The majority of them
are able to make the 30 percent down payment and finance the
rest from the bank.”  Prices Down  The average asking price for affordable condominiums in Ho
Chi Minh City was $706 per square meter in the second quarter,
the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2009, according to data
from the Vietnam unit of CBRE. Prices for affordable units have
fallen 1.9 percent since the first quarter of 2008, compared to
the luxury segment, where average asking prices have fallen 30
percent, according to the property broker.  Home-buyer Ngoc’s loan of 4 billion dong equates to about
140 times last year’s per-capita gross domestic product of
 $1,374,  according to International Monetary Fund figures.  Mortgage loans at Bank for Investment and Development of
Vietnam, the country’s second-largest lender by assets, may
increase 16 percent to 17 percent from a year earlier by the end
of 2012, and increased 4.7 percent between March and June, the
lender’s Deputy General Director Pham Quang Tung said. The bank
processed more than 5,000 mortgage applications in the second
quarter of this year, one and half times more than in the first
three months of 2012.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) ’s Vietnam unit
has seen monthly applications increase as much as fourfold since
March, said Duong Duc Hung, head of retail banking. The lender,
which generates about 27 percent of its retail banking revenue
in Vietnam from mortgages, forecasts at least 15 percent annual
growth in the nation’s home-loan market in the next 3-to-5
years, he said.  “Property prices have been reduced to really affordable
levels and, coupled with the reduction in pricing of the loans,
it’s really an opportunity for individuals in Vietnam to buy,”
Hung said.  --Nick Heath, Nguyen Kieu Giang and Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi,
with assistance from Katrina Nicholas in  Singapore . Editor:
 Malcolm Scott , Pierre Paulden, Rob Urban  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net ;
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net ;
Diep Ngoc Pham in Hanoi at 
 dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  