-- Vornado to Develop Retail Space at NYC Times Square Hotel
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-08-02T15:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/vornado-to-develop-retail-space-at-marriott-marquis-times-square.html
Vornado Realty Trust (VNO)  agreed to lease
and redevelop the retail portion of the Marriott Marquis Times
Square hotel in the heart of one of Manhattan’s most popular
tourist areas, and will have an option to buy the space.  The real estate investment trust will spend as much as $140
million on improvements, including converting the underground
parking garage into stores and adding six stories of LED signs,
landlord  Host Hotels and Resorts Inc.  said today in a statement.
The 20-year lease enables New York-based Vornado to purchase the
space from Bethesda, Maryland-based Host, at a price based on
future  cash flow .  Vornado, which reported a 31 percent decline in funds from
operations in the first quarter, is seeking ways to boost its
stock price and respond to shareholder complaints that its
structure is too complex, Chairman  Steven Roth  said in a letter
to investors in April. The REIT expects to sell about $1 billion
of assets by the end of 2012, Chief Executive Officer Michael Fascitelli said at a conference in June.  “Investing new dollars in things like Times Square retail
is very consistent with Vornado’s core strategy,”  Alex Goldfarb , an analyst at Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP in  New
York , said in a telephone interview. “It’s the need to continue
this process that will take time, but the market wants to see
that Vornado is making progress.”  Vornado agreed last month to buy retail space at
Manhattan’s 666 Fifth Ave., located in the world’s priciest
shopping corridor, for about $707 million. The company said the
purchase would be funded with debt along with proceeds from
sales of $428 million of properties across the U.S. and  Canada ,
including the Washington Design Center, the Boston Design Center
and the L.A. Mart.  The Times Square property is across from 1540 Broadway,
where Vornado owns retail space leased to Forever 21 and the
Disney Store.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  