-- Wal-Mart Ensures Customers’ Voices Are Heard by Campaigns
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-08-02T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/wal-mart-ensures-customers-voices-are-heard-by-campaigns.html
When he first ran for president,
then-Senator  Barack Obama  of Illinois said in May 2007 that he
wouldn’t shop at Wal-Mart because the world’s  largest retailer 
didn’t pay its workers enough.  By January 2011, first lady  Michelle Obama  stood with the
company to announce its decision to reformulate thousands of
products to make them healthier by reducing sodium and sugars.  The changed relationship between  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and
the first family is a reflection of the political evolution of
the Bentonville, Arkansas-based company and the unpredictable
nature of the 2012 presidential landscape.  America’s biggest private employer is becoming more
sophisticated in its dealings with government, co-sponsoring
events with a range of advocacy groups from business
organizations to Hispanic elected officials, building a
bipartisan  Washington  presence, and interviewing its customers
on political issues. The company will also have a presence in
Tampa later this month when  Mitt Romney  accepts the Republican
Party presidential nomination, and in  Charlotte  next month at
the  Democratic Party ’s convention.  “There’s a huge cost of not participating, and like it or
not campaign contributions and subsidizing legislative meetings
are all just the price of them being able to visit at a later
date to talk about a piece of legislation that threatens them,”
said  Michael Hicks , an economics professor at Ball State
University in Indiana who wrote a book about Wal-Mart’s local
economic impact.  Wal-Mart Moms  For politicians, Wal-Mart’s studies of its own shoppers,
most specifically “Wal-Mart moms,” provides useful
intelligence about the concerns of a key bloc of voters. Polling
experts define Wal-Mart moms as women with children 18 years of
age or younger living at home who shop at the superstore at
least once a month.  In 2008, they backed Obama before switching to support
Republicans in the 2010 congressional elections. They represent
27 percent of women voters, making them about 14 percent of the
electorate, according to  research  conducted for Wal-Mart by
Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican firm, and Momentum
Analysis, run by Democrats.  Their fluid voting patterns put them up for grabs in the
2012 presidential contest, making them a key area of focus for
Romney’s campaign, which employs polling expert  Neil Newhouse ,
who has researched the retailer’s customers.  Voices Heard  Earlier this week, 10 Wal-Mart moms from the Denver area
were assembled for the company’s latest focus group, where they
were asked about their top issues and impressions of the
candidates. Reporters were allowed to view the discussion
online, access that ensured the views were ultimately heard by
the candidates.  Participants, whose full names were kept confidential, used
words like dissatisfied, frustrated, deceitful, unhappy and
personable to describe how they feel about Obama, 50. Uncertain,
greedy, slick and businessman were some of those used to
describe Romney, 65.  Those gathered said they were most concerned about  jobs  and
the economy, health care, education and  women’s rights . One of
the women shared her frustration about her three adult children
still living with her because they can’t find jobs that pay a
living wage, while others talked about being under-employed or
having family members who are out of work.  The session “reminds our elected officials of what Wal-Mart moms are looking for in an elected official,” Brooke Buchanan, a company spokeswoman and former press secretary for
2008 Republican nominee Senator  John McCain , said of the focus
groups.  Company Reach  To get a sense of the political reach of Wal-Mart and its
shoppers,  Bloomberg News  mapped the locations of more than 3,600
of its largest stores and compared that map with county-level
election results from the last presidential election.  The results show there is at least one Wal-Mart or Super
Wal-Mart in more than half of all U.S. counties and that Obama
did better in those counties four years ago.  In 2008, Obama won 62 million votes in the more than 1,800
U.S. mainland counties that have at least one of the large-scale
stores, compared with 54.7 million recorded by McCain. Combined,
those counties accounted for about 90 percent of the total vote.  Yet in the battleground states most likely to determine the
winner between Obama and Romney, the president’s advantage drops
dramatically.  Battleground States  In eight states -- Colorado, Florida,  Iowa ,  Nevada ,  New
Mexico ,  North Carolina , Ohio and Virginia -- Obama won just 39
percent of the almost 400 counties that have at least one full-scale Wal-Mart. Those states all switched from backing
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2004 to Obama in 2008.  One of the Wal-Mart counties in a battleground state is
Garfield County, Colorado. Four years ago, there were few places
where the election was as close as it was there. Just two votes
-- out of almost 23,000 cast -- separated Obama and McCain.  Located in western Colorado, the county has two  Wal-Mart
stores . Residents say the stores serve as both a social hub and
a source for household essentials.  “They do serve a huge function in our community so that we
don’t have to drive so far for the things we need,” said Cheryl
Chandler, a real estate broker who lives in the county and plans
to vote for Romney.  Changing Politics  A decade ago, Wal-Mart had little involvement in politics
and lobbying, reflecting founder  Sam Walton ’s policy of shunning
politics. As the company grew both in the U.S. and globally, its
political interests expanded into issues involving labor, trade
and other matters.  Its campaign giving has also broadened and changed. In the
early 2000s, checks from its employees and political action
committees went mostly to Republicans. Today, it donates almost
evenly to Democrats and Republicans, according to an  analysis  by
the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics.  Wal-Mart has boosted its Washington presence in recent
years. The company spent $7.8 million in 2011 on lobbying,
according to the center. As recently as 2007, it was spending
less than half that much.  The retailer, which now has a presence in all 50 states,
has about 15 employees based in Washington, including lobbyists
and workers for the company’s foundation, Buchanan said.  Dorian Warren , a political science professor at  Columbia
University  in New York who is co-writing a book about Wal-Mart’s
efforts to expand into Chicago and Los Angeles, said the company
took on a higher political profile after experiencing bruising
fights with labor and other groups in the 1990s and 2000s.  “They have become a much bigger political player since the
1990s at the federal level,” he said. “They thought it was in
their best interest to get politicians on their side, especially
Democratic politicians. It was an effort to polish their image
and fend off some of those criticisms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John McCormick  in Chicago at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  