-- Western Wind Rises on Utility Interest in Sale: Vancouver Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-08-02T18:35:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/western-wind-rises-on-utility-interest-in-sale-vancouver-mover.html
Western Wind Energy Corp. (WND) , a Canadian
renewable-energy developer with projects in the western U.S.,
rose to the highest in more than eight months after saying three
U.S. electric utilities are negotiating to buy the company.  Western Wind  rose  11.4 percent to C$2.06 at 1:43 p.m. in
Toronto and earlier jumped to C$2.12, the highest intraday since
November 23. Prior to announcing plans for the sale on July 30,
the shares had fallen 41 percent this year.  The company, which rejected a C$2.50-a-share takeover bid
from  Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (AQN)  last year, said today it
will select an adviser to manage the sale next week. Algonquin
scrapped its bid in October after Western Wind said it
“undervalued” the company by at least half.  Western Wind, based in  Vancouver , owns and operates three
wind projects in  California  totaling 154.5 megawatts and one
10.5-megawatt combined wind-and-solar plant in Arizona. The
company plans to continue developing a project in  Puerto Rico 
that will be included in the sale, it said July 30.  A previously announced deal to buy the development assets
of Champlin/GIE Wind Holdings LLC, including early stage
projects in Hawaii, Utah, California and other U.S. states, has
been canceled, Western Wind said today.  Some shareholders aren’t supporting management’s handling
of the sale. Savitr Capital LLC, which says its investors have
“significant” shares in Western Wind, plans to nominate five
new directors at the company’s annual shareholder meeting on
Sept. 25, according to a July 31 statement.  Sale Process  Western Wind’s current board and management “does not have
the resolve, experience or credibility to initiate or conclude a
sale process or any other plan to maximize  shareholder value ,”
said Andrew Midler, a managing member of Savitr, said in the
statement.  Western Wind Chief Executive Officer Jeffrey Ciachurski
responded to Midler’s “hysterical and dishonest” statement by
saying Midler “is interested in only one party and this is
himself and his offshore fund,” which is based in the Grand
Cayman Islands, according to a statement July 31.  “Western Wind has many more facts that will only serve to
embarrass the proponents of this proxy battle,” Ciachurski
said. “Western Wind is committed to complete the sale
process,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  