-- When a Mammogram Is Riskier Than Cancer
-- B y   H a n d e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-08-02T22:30:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/when-a-mammogram-is-riskier-than-cancer.html
Overdiagnosis, or the identification
of cancers that would not have become evident in the patient’s
lifetime, represents one of the most significant harms of
screening. Yet until recently overdiagnosis has gone almost
entirely unmentioned in public messages about  mammography .  Why the silence? Basically, the proponents of screening
have been afraid of providing “mixed messages” that might
confuse the public. Sadly, this fear has prevented the kind of
full and open discussion that is essential to patient/consumer
education.  It was in the mid-1980s that mammography went from being a
diagnostic test for patients with symptoms to a screening test
for all women. For a century, doctors had been telling women to
get treatment for breast cancer as soon as they became aware of
it, but now they were told to go further by searching for cancer
in the shadows. Increasingly sophisticated technology would be
used to find breast cancer in its most embryonic stages.  Overdiagnosis happens when a cancer is identified that
either does not progress (possibly even regresses) or develops
so slowly that the patient dies of something else before ever
developing symptoms. These cancers are sometimes referred to as
pseudodisease. The idea that some cancers don’t need to be
caught is difficult for many people, even some medical
professionals, to grasp. The phenomenon has been observed
throughout the history of screening, however, for lung, prostate
and breast cancer alike.  Stage Zero  In the breast, ductal carcinoma in situ (stage zero breast
cancer) is a particularly problematic condition. In DCIS, the
cancer cells are confined to the interior of the milk ducts (the
cells’ “in situ” or “original” location). Typically there is
no lump or other noticeable symptom, and as long as the tumor
remains confined to the milk ducts, it cannot spread beyond the
breast. DCIS has a 10-year survival rate of 98 percent.  Healthy women often harbor hidden DCIS lesions. Autopsy
studies done on women who died of a variety of causes other than
breast cancer suggest that up to 39 percent of women 40 to 70
may unknowingly have DCIS.  Mammography, it turns out, is very good at identifying it.
The small lesions often contain crystals of calcium salts, which
appear clearly on mammography as clusters of white specks known
as microcalcifications -- even in dense breast tissue. In fact,
whereas mammography may miss as much as 25 percent of invasive
breast cancers, it misses only about 14 percent of DCIS.  From 1980 to 1998, when screening mammography came into
widespread use, the incidence of DCIS increased sevenfold, from
five to 37 cases per 100,000 women. DCIS now accounts for 20
percent to 25 percent of all new breast cancer cases, about
50,000 to 60,000 cases a year. More than half a million American
women live with the diagnosis today.  For all that, very little is known about the behavior of
DCIS. Seeking it out and treating it has not proportionally
lowered the incidence of invasive breast cancer. Early stage
incidence remains high, but rates of advanced breast cancer have
dipped only slightly. Apparently, although most invasive breast
cancers first pass through a DCIS phase, most DCIS cases do not
progress to invasive breast cancer. Only about one-third to one-
half do.  The trouble is, we have no reliable way to separate
harmless DCIS cases from potentially dangerous ones. As a
result, all women who get the diagnosis undergo cancer therapy.
Although women with harmless DCIS cannot benefit from treatment,
they are still subject to its potential risks.  Surgical Overreaction  The majority of patients have a lumpectomy, with or without
radiation therapy. Just under one-third have a mastectomy,
sometimes a double mastectomy. From 1998 to 2005, the share of
DCIS patients who had both breasts removed more than doubled,
from 2.1 percent to 5.2 percent. In other words, the practical
effect of our DCIS-detecting efforts has been to send a huge new
class of women along a pathway that involves disfiguring
surgery, often a long course of high-dose radiation and, for
some, treatment complications.  What is needed is a change to our knee-jerk response to
DCIS, which encourages and even requires radiologists to find as
much of it as possible and surgeons to treat all of it
aggressively.  Perhaps it would help to change the name. Many influential
voices in the scientific community suggest the scary word
“carcinoma” should be dropped. One proposed alternative,
“IDLE tumor” (for InDolent Lesions of Epithelial Origin)
highlights the sluggishness the condition often displays.  In talking to a patient about DCIS, doctors should avoid
suggesting that she is fortunate for having discovered her
cancer in the earliest possible stage. Instead, they should
explain the biological uncertainty of DCIS and the lack of
clarity about how best to treat it. We know that patients with
DCIS grossly overestimate the risk that their condition will
spread or recur. A 2008 study found that 28 percent thought it
was “moderately likely” their cancer would metastasize; in
fact, the risk is close to zero. This explains why some patients
take the “I may not be so lucky next time” approach and have
both breasts removed.  We radiologists, too, have to shift our view of DCIS, which
is informed by the unproven notion that finding DCIS today
prevents invasive cancer tomorrow. We are constantly on the
lookout for DCIS that is as small as the proverbial “period at
the end of this sentence.” It has been observed that the rate
of DCIS detection in the U.S. is higher than in other developed
countries with active mammography screening programs -- three
times higher, for example, than in the U.K.  Standard radiology teaching requires that a biopsy be
recommended for all but the most obviously benign-looking
microcalcifications. If the radiologist thinks that there is
more than a 2 percent likelihood of DCIS, the usual practice is
to recommend a biopsy, regardless of whether the abnormality is
the size of a dot or the size of a dime.  Watchful Waiting  A more rational approach would be short-term follow-up
mammography, in which the patient found to have
microcalcifications is monitored at six-month intervals. If a
particular cluster of microcalcifications does not change during
a few years of follow-up, doctors can assume it is nothing
dangerous. This would require a radical change in thinking among
radiologists, and cooperation from oncologists, surgeons and
other medical professionals who care for women with breast
cancer.  Finally, concerted research is needed to develop ways to
distinguish trivial DCIS cases from potentially more serious
ones, and to find appropriate ways to treat the condition.
Unburdened by the problem of overdiagnosis and overtreatment,
mammography could become an even more effective tool.  From 1990 to 2007, the death rate from breast cancer in the
U.S. decreased by 31 percent. How much of that decline has been
due to screening is hotly debated. Some research suggests
treatment has been all the difference, some suggests screening
may account for almost half the improvement. The truth probably
lies somewhere in the middle.  What we know is that screening helps women older than 40,
with greater benefit for those over 50. Yet women of all ages
should be made aware of mammography’s risks. Doctors who favor
screening should not be afraid to discuss its limitations openly
and honestly. Patients expect it and will thank us for it.  (Handel Reynolds is a breast radiologist at Piedmont
Hospital in Atlanta. This is the last of three excerpts from his
new book, “ The Big Squeeze: A Social and Political History of
the Controversial Mammogram ,” which will be published on Aug. 7
by Cornell University Press. The opinions expressed are his own.
Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  India’s power failures  and on
how Congress  failed on cybersecurity ; Stephen L. Carter on
 educational inequality ; Ezra Klein on  Mitt Romney ’s  exploding
tax plan ; William Pesek on higher food prices and  Asia’s poor ;
 Virginia Postrel  on the historical lie behind  “you didn’t build
that” ; Jonathan Weil on  stopping wrongdoing by banks ; Richard
Cohen on the changing of the guard in  Olympic fencing ; Mohamed
El-Erian on why  central bankers  can’t save the world; Anthony B.
Sanders on why Edward DeMarco was right to  block mortgage
writedowns .  To contact the writer of this article:
Handel Reynolds at  bigsqueezebook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 