-- Whitman Lawyer Challenges Motey’s Trial Testimony on Inside Tips
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-08-02T22:33:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/whitman-lawyer-challenges-motey-s-trial-testimony-on-inside-tips.html
A lawyer for Whitman Capital LLC
founder Doug Whitman tried to undermine the testimony of a
government witness who testified that he passed inside
information about  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  revenue to
Whitman.  Karl Motey, a former computer-chip industry analyst,
testified at Whitman’s criminal trial that he got detailed non-
public information about Marvell’s revenue figures from two
sources inside the company and shared them with his clients,
including Whitman. He told jurors that Whitman knew the
information was illicit.  A defense lawyer cross-examined Motey today, trying to show
that Whitman thought the information he was getting from Motey
wasn’t confidential because it had been widely disclosed. Motey
agreed with the lawyer, David Rody, that he told Whitman that
“Marvell was leaky.”  Motey, one of the government’s two key witnesses, testified
for a second day in Whitman’s trial in  Manhattan  federal court.
Prosecutors claim Whitman used inside information from Motey and
from  Roomy Khan , a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive, to make almost
$1 million for his  Menlo Park , California-based hedge fund.  The trial is part of a broad government investigation of
 insider trading  involving hedge funds. Since August 2009, at
least 70 people have been charged with illegal trading by the
office of U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. More than 60 have pleaded
guilty or been convicted at trial.  Motey pleaded guilty in 2010 to conspiracy and securities
fraud. He told jurors yesterday he’s testifying in hopes of
avoiding a prison sentence.  Research Reports  Rody showed Motey copies of research reports he published
on companies in the semiconductor industry, including Marvell,
before the time when Motey admits he was passing inside tips.  “Sources indicate MRVL’s storage segment remains strong,”
one report from 2005 read, referring to Marvell’s ticker symbol.  Whitman’s lawyers have told U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
who is overseeing the trial, they are trying to show that the
words “source” and “mole,” which Whitman is alleged to have
used in discussing Motey’s contacts at Marvell, refer to sources
of legitimate company information.  Rody also got Motey to agree that some of the information
he got from his Marvell sources was inaccurate.  Marvell, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , makes computer chips
that run smartphones and that are used in computer hard drives.  The case is U.S. v. Whitman, 12-cr-00125, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  