-- Yahoo Sued After Disclosure User Names, Passwords Stolen
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-08-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-02/yahoo-sued-over-breach-that-exposed-450-000-users-passwords-1-.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the operator of the
biggest U.S. Web portal, was sued for negligence over its
disclosure that as many as 450,000 user names and passwords were
stolen from one of its sites.  A Yahoo user who said his login credentials were posted
online after a hacker infiltrated a company database on July 11
filed a complaint July 31 in federal court in San Jose,
California.  Jeff Allan of New Hampshire said in his complaint that
Yahoo failed to adequately safeguard his personal information
and seeks an order requiring the company to compensate him and
other users for account fraud and for measures they have had to
take to protect accounts put at risk by the Yahoo breach.  Yahoo said on July 12 that hackers took a file containing
login credentials for Yahoo and other accounts, such as  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Gmail,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Hotmail and  AOL Inc. (AOL) , from a
Yahoo site featuring user articles, videos and slideshows.  TrustedSec, a Berea, Ohio-based security consulting
company, said that a hacker group called D33DS had posted
details of 450,000 user accounts on an unencrypted file taken
from Yahoo Voices, a site where users can share their own
content.  Allan received an alert of fraud at his eBay account, which
used the same login credentials exposed by the Yahoo hackers,
according to his complaint.  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Sunnyvale, California-
based Yahoo, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message
after regular business hours yesterday seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  The case is Allan v. Yahoo!, 12-4034, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  