-- 
Lagarde Faces Legal Hurdle to Top IMF Post From 1993 Dispute

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-19T15:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/lagarde-faces-legal-hurdle-to-top-imf-post-from-1993-dispute.html
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde ’s chances to be the first woman to run the  International
Monetary Fund  may hinge on how she resolved a two-decade-old
dispute involving a supporter of President  Nicolas Sarkozy .  The Cour de Justice de la Republique, which oversees
ministers’ actions in office, has until June 10 to decide
whether to investigate if Lagarde abused her powers in agreeing
in 2007 to send the case to arbitration. It resulted in a 385
million-euro ($550 million) award to Bernard Tapie, a former
Socialist minister who endorsed Sarkozy’s presidential effort.  Lagarde, 55, has emerged as a frontrunner to lead the IMF
following the resignation of her compatriot Dominique Strauss- Kahn, who is jailed in  New York  on charges of attempted rape and
other offences.  The matter stems from the 1993 sale of Tapie’s  Adidas AG (ADS) ,
which was handled by then-state-owned Credit Lyonnais SA. At the
time, Lagarde was a partner with the Chicago-based law firm
Baker & McKenzie LLP, 12 years before she joined the government.  Tapie claimed the bank mishandled the sale of Adidas a year
before he went into bankruptcy, and has said much of the award
from the state liquidator will go to his creditors.  “It was a trial. You could win, you could lose,” Tapie
said to the Assemblee Nationale’s Finance Committee in September
2008 when it reviewed the decision to arbitrate the matter. “It
wasn’t clear from the start.”  Lagarde has rejected accusations her decision to take the
matter to arbitration and not appeal the award was a reward for
Tapie’s support of Sarkozy.  Lagarde’s spokesman declined to comment on the possible
investigation today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  