-- 
Thai Candidates Register for Election a Year After Deadly Army Crackdown

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-05-19T03:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/thai-candidates-register-for-election-a-year-after-deadly-army-crackdown.html
Thailand ’s political parties began
registering candidates for a July 3 election on the one-year
anniversary of a military assault ending anti-government
demonstrations that left 92 people dead.  “I intended to dissolve the Parliament to return power to
the people,” Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said today in
Bangkok, joining other parties as they submitted candidate lists
for the 500 House of Representatives seats up for grabs. “I
would like to see constructive competition and see the country
move forward.”  Abhisit sent troops a year ago to disperse protesters loyal
to fugitive ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra  who had blockaded a
Bangkok business district to push for an election, sparking
arson attacks around the capital. The group plans to meet
tonight at the former rally site to remember those who died.  The election will test Thai stability marked by one of
 Asia ’s best performing stock markets over the past 12 months.
Several demonstration leaders charged with terrorism for their
role in the protests are running for the opposition Pheu Thai
party led by Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister.  “Thaksin is saying it’s him against Abhisit, not anybody
else,” Chaturon Chaisang, a former Cabinet member under Thaksin
who is advising Pheu Thai, said yesterday. “He decided to put
all the forces together.”  200 Seats  Thaksin and his allies have won the past four national
elections, only to see the last three results overturned through
legal challenges and a military coup. Pheu Thai would win 200
seats at a “minimum,” Chaturon said, citing unpublished
internal polls.  Abhisit also expects his Democrat party to win 200 seats,
the Bangkok Post  reported , citing an interview with him. His
party is seeking its first win in a nationwide vote since 1992.  During two months of protests from Thaksin’s supporters
last year, 92 people died and 1,885 were wounded, about a third
of which were military and police, according to an interim
 report  by a reconciliation commission set up afterward. The
violence and arson attacks led to 145 terrorism charges,
including those against Thaksin, who lives overseas after
fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2006.  Thailand’s benchmark SET Index has gained 41 percent in the
past 12 months, the second-best performance among Asia’s biggest
markets after  Indonesia . It has advanced 2.4 percent since
Abhisit requested a royal decree to dissolve Parliament on May
6, compared with a 1.3 percent decline in the MSCI Asia-Pacific
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  