-- 
Thailand’s Economic Growth Probably Accelerated, Adding Rate-Rise Pressure

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-05-20T05:24:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/thai-economic-growth-probably-accelerated-adding-rate-pressure.html
Thailand ’s economic growth probably
quickened last quarter to the fastest pace in a year, sustaining
pressure for higher interest rates to contain inflation.  Gross domestic product rose 2.2 percent in the three months
through March from the previous quarter, when it climbed 1.2
percent, according to the median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey. The data is due 9:30 a.m. local time on May 23.  Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has pledged higher wages,
added price controls and kept oil subsidies to restrain the cost
of living as he tries to bolster the government’s support ahead
of a general election on July 3. The central bank has signaled
it may raise rates for the fourth time this year in June as the
economy weathers trade disruption from  Japan ’s earthquake, with
exports climbing 24.6 percent in April from a year earlier.  “The economy is supported by very strong exports and firm
domestic demand,” said Thanomsri Fongarunrung, an economist at
Phatra Securities Pcl in Bangkok. “Inflation risks are more
worrisome. The central bank is aware of that and will continue
raising rates.”  Growth has contributed to a 40 percent surge in Thailand’s
benchmark SET Index in the past year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The  Thai baht  has declined about 1 percent against
the dollar in 2011, the worst performance among major Southeast
Asian economies, aiding exports while providing less of a buffer
against higher global food and oil prices.  Neighboring  Singapore ’s currency has risen 3.7 percent in
the same period, and the city-state faces pressure to allow
further appreciation to damp inflation after forecasting 2011
GDP growth of as much as 7 percent yesterday.  Indonesia ’s rupiah
has jumped 5 percent and the Philippine peso is up 1 percent.  Political Stability  Thailand’s forthcoming vote will test stability in a nation
where about 100 people have been killed following disputes over
the last election in 2007. The contest will pit Abhisit’s
Democrat party against allies of fugitive ex-Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a 2006 coup and lives overseas.  Abhisit’s government has capped diesel tariffs and applied
price controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil to shield
Thailand’s population of about 67 million people from the impact
of inflation.  “The potential for disturbances akin to April and May last
year cannot be disregarded,” Julia Goh, an economist at CIMB
Investment Bank Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur , wrote in a note this month.
“That said, we believe political continuity will be sustained
and it will be business as usual regardless of who comes into
power.”  Inflation Risk  The prime minister pledged in February to raise the minimum
wage by 25 percent over two years. The opposition Pheu Thai
Party, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, has promised
a larger rise as the parties vie for votes.  Politicians are indicating higher incomes even as domestic
demand contributes to inflationary pressures. Consumer prices
increased 4.04 percent in April from a year earlier, the fastest
pace since January 2010. Elevated commodity costs have prompted
companies such as  Charoen Pokphand Foods Pcl (CPF) , the nation’s
biggest meat producer, to raise prices.  The Bank of Thailand will need to adjust its benchmark
interest rate, currently 2.75 percent, to a “normal” level,
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said May 12, in a sign the
monetary authority is poised to raise borrowing costs further.  ‘Policy Tightening’  “Continued policy tightening toward the mooted normal
interest rate of 3 percent and even beyond this is necessary to
contain mounting inflationary pressure,” said Matthew Circosta,
an economist at Moody’s Analytics in Sydney.  The central bank has forecast economic growth will return
to a “normal trend” following a 7.8 percent expansion in 2010,
which was the strongest pace in 15 years. The monetary authority
predicts inflation of 3.9 percent in 2011.  In Japan, Thailand’s second-biggest export market, gross
domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7 percent last
quarter as the March 11 earthquake and tsunami disrupted
production and prompted consumers to cut back spending.  Thailand’s central bank has said the disaster will hurt
overseas shipments from  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy
only in the short term. Exports are expected to increase by as
much as 15 percent this year, Commerce Minister  Porntiva Nakasai 
said at a briefing today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  