-- 
Air France Had ’Vigorous’ Debate With Delta Over Seat Cuts

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   F r o s t   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:24:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/air-france-posts-annual-profit-on-economy-unrest-dents-fourth-quarter.html
Air France-KLM Group said it held a
“vigorous” debate with SkyTeam ally  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  over
capacity before the pair agreed to slash seats in their trans-
Atlantic venture as much as 9 percent for the northern winter.  The shift, also involving  Italy ’s Alitalia SpA, will entail
fewer frequencies and a redeployment of the fleet to cope with
rising fuel costs and fluctuating demand, with some planes sent
to warmer destinations where winter demand is stronger, the
companies said today. The carriers jointly operate 260 daily
flights with 144 planes, generating $11 billion in annual sales.  “We went too hard last year, especially on the U.S. side,”
Air France Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon said
today in Paris. “Everyone was enthused after the summer and
said ‘wow, we have the aircraft, let’s go.’ But the gap between
demand and capacity fell. This year we want to correct that.”  Negotiations with Delta, which lifted capacity 20 percent
last winter, were “vigorous” and a test of the governance of
the joint venture, Gourgeon said, adding that “business
discussions are always a bit tense.”  Delta and its partners worked as a “virtual single airline”
to determine which cuts to make and on which routes, and that’s
“a great testament to how we work together,” said Olivia Cullis,
a spokeswoman for the U.S. carrier in  London .  Empty Seats  Atlanta-based Delta failed to lift ticket prices across the
Atlantic in the first quarter after boosting capacity there 16
percent as traffic rose 6 percent, it said last month. The
disparity cut seat occupancy by 6.4 percentage points and helped
push the world’s No. 2 airline to a $318 million net loss.  The cuts announced today will cover the fall and winter
seasons and eliminate 7 to 9 percent of seats on relevant routes
versus a year earlier, the companies said.  Delta CEO Richard Anderson acknowledged on April 26 that
there was “significant industry overcapacity” on trans-
Atlantic routes, and the carrier said May 6 it would pare
seating in the market by 8 to 10 percent following the Labor Day
holiday in September. Delta President Ed Bastia said today at a
transportation conference that the figure is now 10-12 percent.  Peter Hyde, an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in London, said
today in an investor note that Delta and Air France had revealed
future seating plans “early” and that he’s concerned about the
European carrier’s “strategic positioning” in light of last
winter’s capacity deployment and issues over yields or pricing.  Fuel Squeeze  Airlines returned to profit after the recession by slashing
routes, cutting frequencies and raising fares on remaining
flights. A glut of seats could prompt a reversal in prices and
make it tougher to pass on the spiraling cost of jet fuel, said
 Chris Tarry , an independent airline analyst in London.  “It’s better to have fewer seats and people being prepared
to pay a bit more to fly than having excess capacity and not
being able to recover the costs,” said Tarry, who has followed
the aviation industry for almost 30 years.  Air France’s fuel costs increased by 1 billion euros ($1.4
billion) in the year to March 31 and by 186 million euros, or 15
percent, in the fourth quarter, when post-hedging fuel expenses
rose 7 percent, the Paris-based company said today in an
earnings statement. The bill may jump 26 percent this year.  As part of the winter shakeup, Air France will switch
planes to seasonally busy cities such as  Cape Town  and Cancun,
 Mexico , it said, with Gourgeon adding that “it makes far more
sense to use the planes in zones where the demand is stronger.”  The measures will also include “right-sizing” the joint-
venture fleet, the carriers said, without being specific. The
venture is based around hubs in Amsterdam, Atlanta,  Detroit ,
 Minneapolis , New York, Paris and  Rome  and directly serves 26
gateways in  North America  and 33 in  Europe .  BA Broadside  Air France said Feb. 21 it would add flights to locations
including  Orlando  as it boosted summer seating 5.7 percent, less
than two weeks after Gourgeon warned “significant overcapacity”
on North Atlantic routes was starting to crimp earnings.  Willy Walsh, CEO of International Consolidated Airlines
Group SA, formed from a merger of British Airways and  Spain ’s
Iberia in January, said at the time that the Air France chief’s
comments were unhelpful and “confused.”  IAG spokeswoman Laura Goodes said today that the London-
based company had no comment on the Delta-Air France
announcement, while confirming that it plans to lift capacity at
an underlying rate of about 5 percent for the rest of 2011.  Air France-KLM (AF)  said today that its fourth-quarter operating
loss narrowed as cost cuts and increased demand for travel
outweighed higher fuel expenses and disruption caused by the
Japanese earthquake and unrest in Arab states.  Full-Year Profit  Europe’s largest airline pared the loss for the three
months through March to 403 million euros from 497 million euros
a year earlier, pushing it to the first annual profit in three
years. Full-year traffic grew 1.1 percent, led by a 4 percent
jump on Asian routes.  The annual result was spurred by a “strong recovery” in
most markets, Air France said, with seat occupancy increasing 1
percentage point to 81.6 percent and cargo traffic up 2.5
percent. The company shaved 595 million euros from costs and
said it’s seeking a further 470 million euros this year.  Air France-KLM rose as much as 2.6 percent to 12.20 euros
and was trading at 12.14 euros as of 5:21 p.m. in Paris, where
the company is based, paring the stock’s decline this year to 11
percent and valuing the company at 3.64 billion euros.  Delta was priced up 3.6 percent at $11.33 in  New York .  Gourgeon said the company won’t pay a full-year dividend as
it focuses on “longer term objectives” including a
“significant reduction” in gearing. Net debt was cut by 300
million euros to 5.9 billion euros in the year, with the debt-
to-equity ratio reduced to 85 percent from 115 percent.  Excluding one-time items such as gains from the sale of
shares in flight-reservations system Amadeus, the company said
it would have recorded a 234 million-euro full-year net loss,
narrowing from a deficit of 1.23 billion euros a year earlier.  ----With assistance from Steve Rothwell in London and Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta. Editors: Chris Jasper,  Chad Thomas .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurence Frost in Paris at 
 lfrost4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  