-- 
Taiwan Dollar Ends Little Changed on Suspected Intervention

-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-19T09:53:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/taiwan-dollar-ends-little-changed-on-suspected-intervention.html
Taiwan ’s dollar erased gains in the
last minute of trading to close little changed on suspected
intervention by the central bank.  The currency was up 0.1 percent one minute prior to closing,
before authorities sold the currency, according to two traders
who declined to be identified as the central bank doesn’t
disclose such details. Foreign funds bought $111 million more
Taiwan stocks than they sold today after the  Federal Reserve 
signaled U.S.  interest rates  will remain near zero. Data
released after the market closed showed the island’s economy
expanded more than economists forecast in the first quarter.  “The Taiwan dollar has been doing quite well and the
central bank is likely to be paring its strength relative to
other Asian currencies,” said Suan Teck Kin, an economist at
United Overseas Bank Ltd. in  Singapore .  The Taiwan dollar was at NT$28.852 against its U.S.
counterpart as of the 4 p.m. local time close, compared with
NT$28.850 yesterday, according to Taipei Forex Inc. The currency
rose as much as 0.3 percent earlier.  The U.S. central bank may keep its monetary policy
unchanged until late this year and declining inflation
expectations have curbed the need to begin withdrawing record
stimulus, Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in an interview yesterday.  “It seems the U.S. won’t raise interest rates anytime soon,
not until the second half of 2012 at least,” said Eric Hsing, a
fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei. “That’s
favorable for emerging-market assets.”  First-Quarter Growth  Taiwan’s economy expanded 6.55 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, compared with 6.92 percent in the previous
three months, the statistics bureau said. The median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 6.20 percent growth.  The island’s central bank, which raised its benchmark
interest rate by 12.5 basis points to 1.75 percent in March,
will review borrowing costs again next month.  Government bonds  were little changed. The yield on the 1
percent note due January 2016, the most-traded government debt,
was at 1.118 percent, compared with 1.121 percent yesterday,
according to Gretai Securities Market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrea Wong  in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 