-- 
Takeda Pays ‘Upper Limit’ for Nycomed as Competition Looms for Actos Pill

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-05-20T07:14:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/takeda-pays-upper-limit-for-nycomed-in-growth-bid.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. President
Yasuchika Hasegawa spent four years searching for an acquisition
in  Europe  to revive growth. The result: Nycomed, a Swiss
drugmaker with falling earnings and a $9.1 billion price tag.  The takeover, the largest ever by a Japanese pharmaceutical
company, will bolster revenue by more than 30 percent and cut
Takeda’s reliance on the domestic and U.S. markets for sales,
the Osaka-based company said yesterday.  That might not be enough to buffer earnings once generic
versions of Takeda’s best-seller, Actos, reach pharmacy shelves
in 2012, said Atsushi Seki, an analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo.
The diabetes pill accounted for 27 percent of sales last fiscal
year and Hasegawa said on May 11 that competition from copycat
drugs will drag profit to a 13-year low by 2014.  “For Takeda, it makes sense because of the geographic
diversification they get through Nycomed,” said Birgit Kulhoff,
a Zurich-based analyst for Rahn & Bodmer Co. “But the price tag
is really at the upper limit.”  Takeda will pay Nycomed’s private-equity owners 6.3 billion
euros ($9.1 billion) in cash. Including net debt, the purchase
values Zurich-based Nycomed at 9.6 billion euros, dwarfing
Takeda’s $8.9 billion acquisition of Millennium Pharmaceuticals
Inc. in 2008 to gain the cancer drug Velcade.  Based on that enterprise value, Takeda is paying 11.3 times
last year’s adjusted earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Acquirers paid a median multiple
of 8.6 times profit in drug acquisitions of $2 billion or more
over the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fair’ Deal  The acquisition price is “fair” in comparison with
similar deals over the past five years and Ebitda multiples for
acquisitions in emerging markets, Hasegawa, 64, said on a
conference call with analysts yesterday.  “This acquisition will facilitate our full-scale entry in
high-growth emerging markets” and give Takeda a presence in 70
countries from 28 now, he said. It will also alleviate the
negative effects of generic Actos in the U.S. and “put us back
on the path of stable growth towards 2015,” the executive said.  Emerging economies accounted for 39 percent of Nycomed’s
3.17 billion euros in revenue last year. It sells pantoprazole
for heartburn and the smokers’ cough drug roflumilast, sold in
the U.S. as Daliresp and as Daxas in Europe, the Swiss company’s
biggest market, accounting for 44 percent of revenue last year.  “I have no problem with Takeda getting a platform in
Europe, but I can’t be completely happy because it’s paying a 30
percent premium,” said Shigeru Mishima, a health-care analyst
with UBS AG in  Tokyo , in a telephone interview.  No Share Boost  Mishima, who put a “neutral” rating on Takeda shares last
month, said yesterday he can’t immediately see the deal buoying
the company’s stock, which has fallen 4.8 percent this year.
Takeda gained 0.4 percent to 3,805 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, compared with a 0.5 percent
decrease in the benchmark Topix index.  Nycomed’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization dropped 21 percent last year to 850.5 million euros,
excluding some costs, as pantoprazole faced competition from
low-cost generic copies in Europe. The drug lost patent
protection in the U.S. in January.  U.S. approval for roflumilast, its most promising new drug,
was delayed by almost a year after a Food and Drug
Administration advisory panel questioned whether its benefits
justified risks of suicide and weight loss.  Nycomed will strengthen Takeda’s presence in Europe,
especially in the region’s northern and eastern markets,
Hasegawa said yesterday. Europe generated 12 percent of Takeda’s
1.4 trillion yen of revenue in the year ended March 31.  ‘Missing Piece’  “It really makes sense in a global puzzle perspective;
it’s a missing piece,” said Chris Albani, managing director at
the consulting firm PRTM in Tokyo. “This is really a
transformation of the business.”  Talks started about six months ago with an unsolicited e-
mail from Anna Protopapas, a former Millennium executive
appointed to head business development at Takeda in October 2010,
Nycomed Chief Executive Officer Hakan Bjorklund said.  “She didn’t write that she wanted to buy Nycomed,”
Bjorklund said in an interview yesterday. “She wanted to meet
and talk.”  The executives knew each other from Bjorklund’s days at U.K.
drugmaker  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) , he said. They had also “had
discussions” about Nycomed when Protopapas was still at
Millennium, he said.  Sole Dinner  Over a dinner of Dover sole at  Wiltons , the 269-year-old
restaurant near St. James’s Square Gardens in  London , with
Protopapas in November, Bjorklund realized the Japanese
drugmaker’s executives had already taken a close look at his
company, he said. Joining them was Frank Morich, Takeda’s
executive vice president of international operations and a
former executive at Bayer AG.  “What I know they were interested in when it comes to
Nycomed was first of all our sales and marketing presence, our
strong European presence, and of course the fact that we have
such a strong emerging market business,” Bjorklund said. “That,
I think, was very important to them.”  ‘Best Fit’  “We went through a fairly extensive strategic exercise to
find acquisition opportunities that address the strategic
objective and concluded that Nycomed was really the best fit,”
Protopapas said on the conference call with analysts. “It gives
us the geographic presence we’ve been looking for in Europe and
emerging markets.”  Takeda, which traces its origins to a medicine wholesale
business opened in  Osaka  in 1781, began a marketing venture in
 France  more than 30 years ago. Hasegawa, who joined Takeda in
1970 and has been its president since 2003, said in November
2006 that he was looking for acquisitions in the region and had
appointed a corporate adviser to assist.  “I wish I could say timing is everything, but it’s not
only that,” Hasegawa told reporters in Tokyo yesterday. “The
biggest reasons for the successful acquisition are two people:
Anna Protopapas and Frank Morich.”  Acquiring Nycomed will make Takeda the world’s 12th-biggest
pharmaceutical company, Hasegawa said. The Swiss drugmaker has
about  12,500 employees , four research and development centers in
Europe and  India , and 15 production facilities and two joint
ventures in 13 countries, according to its website.  ‘Huge Meal’  “The real issue would be, can Takeda digest this huge
meal?” said Reed Maurer, a former executive with Eli Lilly & Co.
and Merck & Co. in  Japan , and current president of International
Alliance, a Tokyo-based pharmaceutical advisory firm. “Do they
have management depth to digest this kind of acquisition?”  Internally, Hasegawa has been pushing Takeda to broaden its
outlook sufficiently to tackle such a task. He created a board
to advise management on running the company in a “rapidly
changing” drug market in June 2009. Besides Morich, who will
oversee the Nycomed integration, Hasegawa hired Karen Katen,
formerly vice chairman at Pfizer Inc., Sidney Taurel, chairman
emeritus at Eli Lilly & Co. and Tadataka Yamada of the  Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation .  “Combining Nycomed’s entrepreneurial can-do-spirit with
Takeda’s inherited corporate culture will create a new culture
that aggressively promotes innovation,” Hasegawa said on the
conference call.  He recruited Haruhiko Hirate, a former top executive at
Merck in Japan, last year to run Takeda’s Asian business with
specific targets to lower the high turnover of its sales force
and secure a 10-fold revenue gain in  China  in five years.  “The options Japanese companies have are limited,” said
Ludwig Kanzler, a partner at McKinsey & Co. in Tokyo. “Buying
smaller companies and desperately trying to license something --
that works to some extent, but over time, it probably will not
allow them to close the gap, because others are moving too.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net ;
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  