-- 
Takeda to Buy Nycomed for 9.6 Billion Euros

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a   a n d   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 
2011-05-19T10:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/takeda-to-buy-nycomed-for-9-6-billion-euros.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. agreed to
buy closely held Nycomed for 6.3 billion euros ($9.1 billion) in
the largest takeover by a Japanese drugmaker to cushion the blow
of losing patent protection on its best-selling diabetes pill
and expand in emerging markets.  Asia ’s largest pharmaceutical company will pay cash for
Zurich-based Nycomed, which is  controlled  by Nordic Capital and
Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit, Osaka-based Takeda
said in a  statement  today.  Nycomed will bring a remedy for smokers’ cough, an
irreversible  lung disease  that afflicts 80 million people
worldwide, and operations in China,  India  and  Latin America  to
reduce Takeda’s reliance on sales in Japan and the U.S. The
transaction may not suffice to buffer revenue once generic
versions of Takeda’s best-seller Actos reach pharmacy shelves
next year, analysts said.  “Takeda is buying time with this acquisition, it was slow
to enter emerging markets,” said Atsushi Seki, an equities
analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “However, it’s an expensive
purchase and may not be enough to make up for revenue that will
be lost from Actos.”  The announcement came after the close of trading in  Japan .
Takeda rose 0.5 percent to 3,790 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
The benchmark Topix index fell 0.7 percent. The shares have shed
5.1 percent so far this year.  Revenue Boost  The purchase values Nycomed at 9.6 billion euros including
cash and assumed debt. Takeda, which had 874.2 billion yen
($10.8 billion) in cash, deposits and short-term investments as
of March 31, will fund part of the transaction through a loan of
about 600 billion yen to 700 billion yen, it said.  Buying Nycomed will increase Takeda’s annual revenue and
per-share earnings by more than 30 percent and bolster operating
income, excluding certain items, by more than 40 percent, the
Japanese drugmaker said. The transaction will help save 30
billion yen annually by the third year after completion.  “Nycomed enables Takeda to maximize the value of our
portfolio and gives us an immediate strong presence in the high-
growth emerging markets,” said Yasuchika Hasegawa, the
company’s president and chief executive officer.  Access to emerging markets is key for Takeda, which
generated 85 percent of its 1.42 trillion yen of revenue in
Japan and the U.S. in the last fiscal year.  China  and Colombia  Drug sales in the 17 fastest-growing emerging markets will
expand 13 percent to 16 percent annually over the next five
years, reaching as much as $315 billion by 2015, the IMS
Institute for Healthcare Informatics in Parsippany,  New Jersey ,
said yesterday. That compares with growth of 1 percent to 4
percent in developed economies.  Emerging economies accounted for 39 percent of Nycomed’s
3.17 billion euros in revenue last year. The Swiss manufacturer
aims to increase that proportion to 60 percent by 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Hakan Bjorklund said in an interview in March.  Nycomed agreed in February to buy Laboratorios  Farmacol SA (FCL) 
of Colombia and in November said it had bought a majority stake
in Chinese biotechnology company Techpool Bio-Pharma Co. Nycomed
has about  12,500 employees , four research and development
centers in Europe and India, and 15 production facilities and
two joint ventures in 13 countries, according to its website.  Nycomed  earned  774.9 million euros before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last year. It sells pantoprazole
for heartburn and the smokers’ cough drug roflumilast in Europe
as Daxas and as Daliresp in the U.S., where revenue is shared
with  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)   Skin Unit Goes It Alone  Takeda “put a lot of value” on Daxas, Bjorklund said on a
conference call today. “This deal was not about synergies.”  The transaction, slated for completion by the end of
September, excludes Nycomed’s U.S. dermatology business, which
had revenue of 332.9 million euros last year, according to the
company’s annual report. The unit will become independent and
retain its current ownership structure, Bjorklund told reporters.
He declined to comment on the future of the business.  Takeda is paying about 3.4 times annual sales for Nycomed,
compared with an average multiple of 4.1 times in 13 prior
pharmaceuticals takeovers of $1 billion or larger announced in
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Japanese company, which traces its origins to a medicine
wholesale business opened in  Osaka  in 1781, bought Millennium
Pharmaceuticals Inc. for $8.9 billion in 2008. Actos, first sold
in the U.S. in 1999 and now the world’s best-selling diabetes
medicine, accounted for 27 percent of Takeda’s sales last year.  From  Norway  to  Switzerland   Nordic Capital , based in  Stockholm , owns 41 percent of
 Nycomed , while Credit Suisse’s DLJ Merchant Banking unit holds
26 percent, according to the company’s website. London-based
Coller Capital has a 9.7 percent stake and New York-based Avista
Capital Partners owns 8.9 percent.  Nycomed was  founded  in Norway in 1874 by pharmacist Morten
Nyegaard as an agent for imported pharmaceutical products. The
company has changed hands repeatedly over the past 12 years,
moving in the process from Norway to  Denmark  and then, in 2007,
to Switzerland.  Takeda was advised by Deutsche Bank AG. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG advised Nycomed.  Moody’s placed Takeda’s Aa1 credit rating on review for a
possible “multi-notch” downgrade, saying the transaction would
weaken the company’s balance-sheet liquidity.  Standard & Poor’s 
followed suit, noting that “Takeda’s financial profile will
deteriorate because it plans to cover the cost of the
acquisition with liquidity on hand and bank borrowings, although
the acquisition will strengthen the geographic diversification
of the company’s business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kanoko Matsuyama in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Zurich at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net  