-- 
Takeda to Buy Nycomed for 9.6 Billion Euros

-- B y   K a n o k o   M a t s u y a m a
-- 
2011-05-19T06:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/takeda-pharmaceutical-agrees-to-buy-closely-held-nycomed-for-14-billion.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. agreed to
buy closely held Nycomed for 9.6 billion euros ($13.7 billion),
the largest takeover by a Japanese drugmaker, broadening its
reach in emerging markets and adding a remedy for smokers’ cough
to its portfolio.  Asia ’s largest pharmaceutical company will pay cash for
Zurich-based Nycomed, which is  controlled  by  Nordic Capital  and
Credit Suisse Group AG’s private-equity unit, Osaka-based Takeda
said in a  statement  today. The purchase price includes 3.6
billion euros of net debt.  Nycomed, which gets more than a third of revenue from
emerging markets, will reduce Takeda’s reliance on sales in
Japan and the U.S. The purchase may help the Japanese company
buffer a drop in revenue once generic versions of its best-
selling diabetes pill Actos are released in 2012.  “Takeda is buying time with this acquisition, it was slow
to enter emerging markets,” said Atsushi Seki, an equities
analyst at Barclays Plc in Tokyo. “However, it’s an expensive
purchase and may not be enough to make up for revenue that will
be lost from Actos.”  The announcement was made after markets in  Japan  closed.
Takeda rose 0.5 percent to 3,790 yen at the 3 p.m. close of
trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The benchmark Topix index
fell 0.7 percent. The shares have shed 5.1 percent this year.  The Japanese drugmaker, which had 874.2 billion yen ($10.8
billion) in cash, deposits and short-term investments as of
March 31, will finance part of the transaction through a loan of
about 600 billion yen to 700 billion yen, it said.  Revenue Boost  Buying Nycomed will increase Takeda’s annual revenue and
per-share earnings by more than 30 percent and bolster operating
income, excluding certain items, by more than 40 percent, the
Japanese drugmaker said.  “Nycomed enables Takeda to maximize the value of our
portfolio and gives us an immediate strong presence in the high-
growth emerging markets while doubling Takeda’s European
sales,” Yasuchika Hasegawa, the company’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.  The deal, slated for completion by the end of September,
excludes Nycomed’s U.S. dermatology business, which had revenue
of 332.9 million euros last year, according to the company’s
annual report.  Takeda is paying about 3.4 times annual sales for Nycomed,
compared with an average multiple of 4.1 times in 13 prior
pharmaceuticals takeovers of $1 billion or larger announced in
the past two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Emerging Economies  Nycomed  earned  774.9 million euros before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization last year. It sells pantoprazole
for heartburn and the smokers’ cough drug roflumilast in Europe
as Daxas and as Daliresp in the U.S., where revenue is shared
with  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)   Emerging economies accounted for 39 percent of Nycomed’s
3.17 billion euros in revenue last year. The Swiss manufacturer
aims to increase that proportion to 60 percent by 2015, Chief
Executive Officer Hakan Bjorklund said in an interview in March.  Nycomed agreed in February to buy Laboratorios  Farmacol SA (FCL) 
of Colombia and in November said it had bought a majority stake
in Chinese biotechnology company Techpool Bio-Pharma Co. Nycomed
has about  12,500 employees , four research and development
centers in Europe and  India , and 15 production facilities and
two joint ventures in 13 countries, according to its website.  Takeda Sales  Takeda generated 86 percent of its 1.4 trillion yen of
revenue in Japan and  North America  last fiscal year. The company,
which traces its origins to a medicine wholesale business opened
in  Osaka  in 1781, bought Millennium Pharmaceuticals Inc. for
$8.9 billion in 2008.  Nordic Capital, based in  Stockholm , owns 41 percent of
 Nycomed , while Credit Suisse’s DLJ Merchant Banking unit holds
26 percent, according to the company’s website. London-based
Coller Capital has a 9.7 percent stake and New York-based Avista
Capital Partners owns 8.9 percent.  Nycomed was  founded  in  Norway  in 1874 by pharmacist Morten
Nyegaard as an agent for imported pharmaceutical products. The
company has changed hands repeatedly over the past 12 years,
moving in the process from Norway to  Denmark  and then, in 2007,
to  Switzerland .  Takeda was advised by Deutsche Bank AG. Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG advised Nycomed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Kanoko Matsuyama} in  Tokyo  at 
 kmatsuyama2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  