-- 
Malaysia Said to Plan Global Islamic Dollar Bond

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-05-20T02:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/malaysia-to-plan-global-islamic-dollar-bond.html
(Corrects spelling of source name in fourth paragraph in a
story first published yesterday.)  Malaysia  is said to be planning a 10-
year dollar-denominated Islamic bond, its second sovereign sale
of Shariah-compliant debt in a year, four people familiar with
the matter said.  Three local investment banks submitted pitches proposing a
size of $500 million to $1.7 billion, said the people who
couldn’t be named as the matter is confidential. The deadline
for the request for proposals from bankers has closed, they said.  An offering of 10-year overseas Islamic debt would set a
benchmark for the $1 trillion industry, where issuers tend to
favor shorter maturities such as five years or less. The
government may be willing to pay a higher yield on the notes
than non-Shariah-compliant bonds because it wants to strengthen
Malaysia’s position as the global hub for Islamic finance and
the biggest market for sukuk, the people said.  “Malaysia’s sovereign bonds have always been sought after
because they are rare,” Lum Choong Kuan, head of fixed-income
research at CIMB Investment Bank Bhd., a unit of Malaysia’s
second-biggest bank, said in a telephone interview in Kuala
Lumpur today. Proceeds are likely to be used to part-refinance a
$1.75 billion non-Islamic, dollar-denominated bond that matures
in July, he said.  The  finance ministry  has yet to take a final decision on
the potential sale, said a government official who also declined
to be named because of confidentiality. The prime minister’s
press aide Sarifudin Ahmad said he couldn’t comment when
contacted by phone.  Spread With Treasuries  The Southeast Asian nation sold $1.25 billion of the five-
year dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in May last year at a 180
basis-point premium over U.S. Treasuries. The yield difference
has since shrunk to 97 basis points today, approaching a March
31 low of 88 basis points, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.928 percent sukuk maturing in June 2015
was little changed today at 2.45 percent, prices from Royal Bank
of Scotland Group show. It reached 2.33 percent on Nov. 4, the
lowest since the debt was sold.  Average rates on global sukuk dropped three basis points to
4.06 percent yesterday, the lowest level since March 2005,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. The
difference between the average yield for sukuk and the London
interbank offered rate narrowed eight basis points to 242, the
index showed.  Ringgit Sales Surge  Shariah-compliant bonds gained 4.8 percent this year,
according to the HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai US Dollar Sukuk Index. Debt
in developing markets rose 3.8 percent, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Diversified Index shows.  Sales of ringgit-denominated Islamic bonds rose 72 percent
this year to 12.4 billion ringgit ($4.1 billion) from the same
period in 2010, Bloomberg data show. The government has
announced a $444 billion 10-year development plan that includes
a mass railway in  Kuala Lumpur . Malaysia may also sell local-
currency sukuk to help finance the construction of the 48
billion ringgit network, Prime Minister Najib Razak said on
March 29.  The Bloomberg-AIBIM-Bursa Malaysia Sovereign Shariah Index,
which tracks the most-traded ringgit-denominated  government
securities , was at 102.403 yesterday. The gauge has gained 1.3
percent this year.  Global sales of sukuk, which pay asset returns to comply
with Islam’s ban on interest, climbed to $5.9 billion this year,
from $5.4 billion in the same period of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 