-- 
Alberta Wildfires Wane as Winds Ease, Lessening Risks to Oil Production

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-19T19:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/alberta-wildfires-wane-as-winds-ease-lessening-risks-to-oil-production.html
Firefighters may begin to gain the
upper hand over  Alberta ’s wildfires as winds ease and humidity
rises, lessening the risk to crude production sites, said a
spokesman from  Alberta Sustainable Resource Development .  Wind speeds have fallen from a peak of almost 100
kilometers (62 miles) an hour on May 15 when fires forced the
evacuation of all 7,000 inhabitants of the town of Slave Lake,
Dave Ealey, a spokesman for the Alberta ministry, said
yesterday. About 1,000 firefighters were deployed across the
northern half of the province.  Strong winds and a lack of moisture at a time of year when
trees haven’t started to draw water into their stems facilitated
fires that have burnt more than double the area damaged in 2010,
Ealey said.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) ,  Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) 
and other oil producers either cut or said they may cut output
as the fire disrupts repair work on one of the main pipelines in
the region.  Slave Lake’s temperature was 17 degrees Celsius (63
Fahrenheit) with winds blowing at 4 miles an hour and a 60
percent chance of precipitation at 10:46 a.m. local time,
according to  Weather Underground , a private forecaster based in
 Ann Arbor ,  Michigan .  Eight new fires were reported in the past 24 hours and 19
wildfires are listed as “out of control,” according to the
ministry  website .  Cenovus Production  Cenovus today shut production of 22,000 barrels a day at
its Pelican Lake oil-sands project, Rhona DelFrari, a
spokeswoman for the Calgary-based company, said in an e-mail.
Cenovus has been storing oil in tanks at the site since May 15,
when a pipeline was shut. The company will conduct maintenance
at Pelican Lake until shipments on Rainbow resume.  Canadian Natural Resources may have to shut production of
40,000 barrels a day at its Pelican Lake oil project if the
pipeline doesn’t reopen, the Calgary-based company said in a May
17 statement.  Small producers like Calgary-based  Exall Energy Corp. (EE)  have
also turned off wells. Exall said in a May 16 statement that it
shut 921 barrels a day of output because of the fires and
mandatory evacuation orders in the town of Slave Lake.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  is limiting nonessential staff at its
Albian Sands site north of Fort McMurray because of smoke from
the fires, the company said today. Production isn’t affected.  ‘Rounding Error’  “This is a tiny volume of oil relative to what’s basically
an 88 million-barrel-a-day global market,” said  Tim Evans , an
energy analyst at CitiFutures Perspectives in  New York .
“Certainly it’s a significant development for those living in
Alberta, but more of a rounding error when it comes to global
oil supply.”  Fires forced  Plains All American Pipeline LP (PAA)  to stop
cleanup work from an earlier  oil spill  and shut down its Rainbow
pipeline system on May 15.  The northern portion of the 772-kilometer Rainbow pipeline
was closed after an April 29 leak of 28,000 barrels of oil.
Fires forced evacuation of the cleanup site and closure of the
southern portion. The system carried an average of 187,000
barrels a day in 2010, according to the company.  Alberta’s Energy Resources Conservation Board said on May
17 it won’t allow Plains to restart the Rainbow line until
further inspection is done.  Syncrude Evacuations  Wildfires have destroyed 186,000 hectares (460,000 acres)
this year, said Ealey, the Alberta government spokesman.  Syncrude Canada Ltd., the biggest oil-sands miner, is
evacuating nonessential personnel from its Aurora project in
northeastern Alberta because smoke from the fires is causing
air-quality and visibility concerns, said Alison Trollope, a
spokeswoman for Canadian Oil Sands Ltd., owner of the largest
stake in Syncrude.  “The facilities are not at risk” and production of
bitumen from the sandy deposits continues, Trollope said
yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net ;
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  