-- 
Aloe Plans $501 Million Fund to Back Renewable Energy Ventures in Asia

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-05-19T16:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/aloe-plans-501-million-fund-to-back-renewable-energy-ventures-in-asia.html
Aloe Private Equity , a Mauritius-
based company that focuses on  Asia , seeks to raise as much as
350 million euros ($501 million) to invest in companies
developing environmental technologies.  The company expects to close in the third quarter the first
funding round for its Aloe Environment Fund III with capital
commitments of about 100 million euros, according to Vivek
Tandon, co-founder and general partner at Aloe.  It expects to investment in eight to 10 companies in fields
such as waste management, recycling, water and  energy efficiency 
that want to expand into Asia, Tandon said in an interview
yesterday.  “Entrepreneurs in Asia were very quick to realize that
being green was a profitable business and the concept of reduce,
reuse and recycle could save their companies money,” he said.
Aloe has received commitments from two institutional sponsors
and some of its existing partners.  Companies in Asia benefit from legislation and subsidies
aimed at curbing air and river pollution caused by rapid growth
in the manufacturing and energy industries, he said. Many
countries in the region are also seeking to reduce their
dependence on coal and to develop infrastructure sustainably.  Low-Carbon Technology  Investment in low-carbon energy in  China  expanded 30
percent to $51.1 billion in 2010 in response to government
incentives and cheap debt, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The London-based research company reported a record
$243 billion in global investments in low-carbon technology last
year.  Aloe also expects to address the significant gap between
the supply of energy and the demand in  India , Asia’s third-
largest energy consumer, Tandon said. Low-carbon power
investment in India rose to $4.1 billion in 2010 from $3.2
billion a year earlier, according to New Energy Finance.  Aloe, founded in 2003, has 180 million euros in assets
under management and 10 companies in its portfolio. Three are in
discussions with potential acquirers or are considering initial
public offerings, he said.  Another Aloe-backed company, the Isle of Man-based
renewable energy developer  Greenko Group Plc (GKO) , raised 45 million
pounds ($73 million) selling shares in 2007 on  London ’s
Alternative Investment Market. It had 183 megawatts of installed
capacity in India as of July, including hydroelectric power and
biomass plants, and a total of 667 megawatts in operation or
under development.  “Listing these companies in the U.K. has proven to be very
successful due to comfort of the funds to invest and leverage,
structuring opportunities available to them,” Tandon said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  