-- 
Alstom Transformer ‘Issues’ at RWE, EON U.K. Power Plants

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-05-19T11:03:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/alstom-transformers-at-rwe-eon-u-k-power-plants-have-technical-issues-.html
Alstom SA (ALO) , the world’s third-largest
power-equipment maker, said there were “technical issues” with
generator transformers at new  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG natural-gas
fueled plants in the U.K.  The equipment is used at sites including RWE’s 1,700-
megawatt Staythorpe power station near  Nottingham , central
 England . It is being installed at RWE’s 2,000-megawatt Pembroke
plant in south  Wales  and EON’s combined heat and power facility
at the Isle of Grain, southeast England.  A “technical issue with the generator transformers is
being checked as a precaution” at Staythorpe, Deborah Risby, a
London-based spokeswoman for Alstom, said yesterday by
telephone. “It will be fixed as soon as possible.” Concerns
with the units at Grain have been resolved and the Pembroke
station is “ahead of schedule,” she said.  Two units at Staythorpe have been halted for nearly six
weeks because of “problems with the transformers” and will begin
to be returned to service within the next three months, Verity 
Barr, a Cheltenham, England-based spokeswoman for RWE, said 
yesterday by e-mail. Staythorpe has four units. The Pembroke 
power station is due to start testing electricity generation later
this year.  Commercial operations at the 1,275-megawatt Grain facility
have been delayed. The plant, when finished, will send waste
heat to National Grid Plc’s neighboring liquefied natural gas
terminal. The station, made up of three units, was due to start
selling power by the end of March. While one of the units was
generating this week, the plant was idle as of 10:55 a.m. London
time, grid data show. The three units may start producing power
from the week beginning June 6, according to data submitted to
National Grid Plc.  “We’re continuing testing as part of the commissioning
process and are working hard with our principal contractor to
resolve any remaining technical difficulties as soon as
possible,” Scott Somerville, a Coventry, England-based
spokesman for EON, said by e-mail.  A generator transformer is a unit that allows electricity
to be sent to the network for transmission around the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  