-- 
Ambassadors International Wins Court Approval of Sale to Anschutz Unit

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 
2011-05-19T20:16:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ambassadors-international-wins-court-approval-of-sale-to-anschutz-unit.html
Ambassadors International Inc. (AMIE) , the
operator of Windstar Cruises, won court approval to sell
virtually all its assets to a unit of billionaire Philip Anschutz’s Anschutz Corp. for about $39 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
said today that he will sign an order approving the sale once
final language has been drafted.  Ambassadors has “established their burden of proof” and
“the court is satisfied that the process was fair,” Gross said
during a hearing. The offer is fair, and the sale “will protect
trade creditors and customers” with about $19 million in claims
and deposits at stake that the Anschutz’s unit will take over,
in addition to saving hundreds of employees’ jobs, he said.  Ambassadors, based in  Seattle , operates Windstar’s three-
ship luxury yacht fleet, which shuttles patrons to “the hidden
harbors and secluded coves of the world’s most sought-after
destinations,” according to a company statement. The ships
carry 148 to 312 passengers to 50 nations in  Europe , the
Caribbean and the Americas.  The company listed $87.3 million in debt and $86.4 million
in assets as of Dec. 1 in Chapter 11 filings.  The Anschutz subsidiary, TAC Cruise LLC, beat Whippoorwill
Associates Inc. in a two-day auction that ended May 17 with an
all cash offer of about $39 million, which also includes taking
on certain liabilities, according to court documents.  Sales Agreement  Ambassadors entered bankruptcy with an agreement to sell
its assets to its lender Whippoorwill.  The Whippoorwill offer would have forgiven debt and assumed
other liabilities in exchange for the assets, which the company
valued at about $38.9 million, court papers show.  White Plains ,
New York-based Whippoorwill is Ambassadors’ secured lender,
owner of about 88 percent the secured notes, and largest
shareholder, with about 22 percent of the company’s equity.  “The auction did what it was supposed to do,” Kristopher Hansen, a lawyer representing Ambassadors, told Gross yesterday
when the hearing to approve the sale began. “It flushed out a
higher and better bid.”  A third party came in and bought the assets through an
auction process and that is a market test, and “a market test
is the best test.”  “This is not a process where people bid against each other
and the market spoke,”  John K. Sherwood , a lawyer for the
committee of unsecured creditors, said at yesterday’s hearing.  No Surprise  Whippoorwill drove the sale process so “it should not come
as a surprise that the exact number that was submitted was
exactly enough to pay off Whippoorwill and administrative
claims,” he stated. Sherwood told Gross he believed Ambassadors
could be worth more than $80 million.  Sherwood said that Steven Gendal, a principal of
Whippoorwill, told other bidders if they “bid one penny more”
than Whippoorwill’s offer they wouldn’t overbid and they could
have the company, in effect setting a ceiling on the bidding
rather than a floor. “We don’t think the process was a true
indication of value,” he said.  “McDonald’s hamburgers sell for the price they sell,
because that’s what people are willing to pay, and that’s what
we have here,” Whippoorwill attorney Mitchell Karlan said
defending the allegations.  The company was willing to provide financing to other
potential buyers, he said.  “That’s how eager we were not to be the owner of this
company,” he said. Whippoorwill just wanted to see its debt
repaid, he said.  The  bankruptcy code  “does not require a distribution to
unsecured creditors,” Gross said in a somber tone at the end of
his ruling. “The court itself would like to see a distribution,
but the code does not require it.”  The case is In re Ambassadors International Inc., 11-11002,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 