-- 
Billionaire Ambani Debt Risk Rises Most in Asia on Gas Slump: India Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 
2011-05-20T06:26:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ambani-debt-risk-rises-most-in-asia-on-gas-slump-india-credit.html
The cost of protecting the debt of
 Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  has risen the most among  Asia ’s oil
companies this quarter as the explorer’s natural-gas output
drops and profit growth slows.  Credit default swaps on the Mumbai-based company,
controlled by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani , have increased 15 basis
points to 165, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Contracts on Petroleo Brasiliero SA have slid
11 basis points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 132 after the Rio
de Janeiro-based company announced oil discoveries last month.  Spiraling global commodity prices have stoked inflation in
the world’s second fastest-growing major economy, underscoring
the need to secure energy supplies for the nation’s 1.2 billion
people. Bonds of India’s oil and gas explorers are slumping this
year, causing the difference in yields over government debt to
double in the past six months for Reliance and state-run rival
Oil & Natural Gas Corp.  “Reliance gas production has been falling and there is
still no certainty when it will increase again,” said Manoj Kulkarni, head of credit research at brokerage SJS Markets Ltd.
in  Hong Kong . “Lower output has curbed earnings and Reliance
hasn’t been able to gain from the commodity price rise.”  Bond Yields  Natural-gas output from India’s biggest deposit, the
Reliance-controlled KG-D6 field, has dropped 17 percent from a
peak of about 60 million cubic meters a day set in June year.
Net income at the company rose 14 percent from a year earlier in
the three months ended March, the least in six quarters,
following the drop in production.  The yield on Reliance’s 8.75 percent rupee bond due May
2020 was 9.37 percent today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rate has climbed 25 basis points since the
company filed its latest income statement on April 21. The yield
on the 4.5 percent dollar note due October 2020 has increased
five basis points this month to 5.16 percent.  “Profits have taken a hit as production has dropped,” Raj Kothari, a London-based fixed-income trader at Sun Global
Investments Ltd., said in an interview yesterday. “Gas output
will be the trigger for growth at Reliance. Everyone is waiting
very keenly for clarity on that.”  Yields at about 6 percent would be an opportunity for
investors to buy the debt, he said.  ‘Production Issues’  Bonds of ONGC Videsh, a unit of ONGC, are headed for a
fourth weekly drop. Natural-gas output at the New Delhi-based
company was little changed at 23.1 billion cubic meters in the
12 months ended March from the year-earlier period, according to
 petroleum ministry  data. The yield on the 8.54 percent note due
January 2020 fell three basis points today to 9.33 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  The difference in yields between Reliance’s nine-year note
and similar-maturity  government bonds  has widened 48 basis
points since the end of November to 104, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A similar measure for ONGC Videsh has
doubled to 100 basis points.  “With ONGC, it hasn’t been able to increase output, while
Reliance has a lot of production issues,” Jagdish Meghnani, a
Mumbai-based oil-and-gas analyst at Alchemy Share & Stock
Brokers, said in an interview yesterday. “A year ago, we were
looking at comfortable growth in supply, which included
Reliance’s output. But now the scenario has changed.”  Manoj Warrier, a Mumbai-based spokesman for Reliance,
declined to comment. A.K. Hazarika, chairman and managing
director of ONGC, didn’t return two calls made to his mobile
phone.  Diversified Earnings  The rise in the credit-default swaps of Reliance follows an
almost 8 percent increase in its outstanding debt to 674 billion
rupees ($15 billion) as of March from a year earlier. The
contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a company
fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The drop in natural-gas output isn’t a problem for the
company because of its diversified revenue stream, according to
Sun Global. Reliance, which gets about 38 percent of its profits
from refining, also produces chemicals, clothes and owns a
broadband company. The company announced in April last year that
it would take a stake in Deccan Cargo & Express Logistics Pvt.,
a Bangalore-based cargo airline.  “Repaying this debt shouldn’t be a problem for Reliance
since their cash flows from the refineries are very strong,”
Sun Global’s Kothari said. “When investors think of buying
Indian corporate debt, they think of Reliance.”  Crude Prices  Importing energy supplies has become more expensive for
 India  following the rupee’s depreciation this year. The
currency, which has lost 0.5 percent in 2011, traded at 44.93
per dollar yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Inflation in the nation, which relies on imports for 75
percent of its energy needs, has accelerated as crude oil traded
in  New York  has risen 9 percent this year. Wholesale prices in
the South Asian economy climbed 8.98 percent in March after
increasing 8.31 percent the previous month.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent bond due April 2021 was
8.34 percent today, according to the central bank’s trading
system. The rate, which rose 14 basis points in April, has
climbed 21 basis points this month. The yield is 514 basis
points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, up from a
nine-month low of 436 reached on April 8. India’s bonds have
returned 0.6 percent this year, the least among 10 local-
currency debt markets outside  Japan , according to indexes
compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Reliance has been spreading itself thin by getting into a
lot of areas that aren’t its specialization,” said Vienna-based
Juergen Maier, who helps manage about $1.3 billion of emerging-
market shares at Raiffeisen Capital Management in Vienna. “I’d
much rather have seen them investing more money into their  gas
field  to raise production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net . 