-- 
Mammals’ Sense of Smell May Have Jump-Started Brain Evolution

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-19T18:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mammals-sense-of-smell-may-have-jump-started-brain-evolution.html
A better  sense of smell  may have led
to mammals’ large, complex brains, as early species began
processing information by discerning odors, a study said.  Paleontologists reconstructed fossils of two skeletons from
the early Jurassic Period, about 190 million years ago, and
performed CT scans to reconstruct brain molds, according to a
paper published in the journal  Science .  The two mouse-like animals called  Morganuocodon  and
Hadrocodium, both found in  China , help provide evidence of how
mammals came to have bigger brains, relative to body size, than
any other animals. The scans showed that the largest area of
brain growth was the sense of smell. The pre-mammalian brains
also showed development in the region responsible for touch,
corresponding to a unique ability among mammals to sense touch
through fur.  “I was absolutely thrilled to see the shape of the brain
of our 190-million-year-old relatives,” said Zhe-Xi Luo, a
researcher at the  Carnegie Museum of National History . “I have
spent years studying these fossils, but until they were CT
scanned it was impossible to see the internal details unless you
were willing to destroy the skulls to look inside.”  The senses of smell and touch, as well as neuromuscular
coordination, gave the animals a jump-start on developing a
large brain, the researchers said. The Morganuocodon brain
reconstruction, based on the CT image, was almost 50 percent
larger than previous  mammal-like reptiles , wrote Glenn
Northcutt, a neuroscientist at the University of  California ,  San
Diego , in an accompanying editorial piece.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 