-- 
Lamprell to Fund Cash Offer for MIS Through Rights Offer

-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r   a n d   M e e r a   B h a t i a
-- 
2011-05-19T09:17:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/lamprell-to-fund-cash-offer-for-mis-through-rights-offer-1-.html
Lamprell Plc (LAM)  will use a rights offer,
debt and cash to acquire Dubai-based rig maker, Maritime
Industrial Services Co. The shares of both companies surged.  The 3-for-10 rights issue will be offered at 232 pence per
share to raise as much as 139.4 million pounds ($225 million),
the Douglas, Isle of Man-based oil-and-gas-rig builder said in a
statement. The rights offer will be fully underwritten by J.P.
Morgan Cazenove, HSBC and Merrill Lynch International.  “This transaction will rapidly create value for our
shareholders,” Lamprell Chief Executive Officer Nigel McCue
said in a statement.  “We can demonstrate the merits of
bringing together these two businesses both through new business
opportunities and operational and financial synergies.”  The acquisition represents growing interest in the offshore
drilling industry in the past year as  oil prices  have surged.
Earlier this week American miner  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)  agreed to buy
LeTourneau Technologies Inc. for $1.1 billion.  MIS rose as much as 26 percent to 37.7 kroner in Oslo, the
most in 14 months, while Lamprell gained as much as 15 percent
to 405 pence in  London , the biggest jump since September.  “The return on invested capital in the first full year of
ownership will at least match Lamprell’s cost of capital and
exceed it thereafter,” Lamprell said in the statement.  The consideration for each share under the offer will be 38
kroner payable in cash, valuing the share capital of MIS at
about 1.87 billion kroner ($337 million). The MIS board
recommended that shareholders accept the offer, it said in a
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Bhatia in Oslo at 
 mbhatia2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  