-- 
Canadian Banks, Energy Shares Fall as U.S. Home Sales Decline

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-19T16:34:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/anderson-energy-smart-technologies-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian bank and energy shares fell
after data on U.S. home sales and Philadelphia-region
manufacturing trailed most economists’ forecasts and natural gas
futures retreated.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s largest lender by
assets, slipped 0.6 percent after the National Association of
Realtors said U.S. sales of existing homes declined last month.
 Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-biggest
energy company by market value, decreased 0.8 percent after the
U.S. reported higher natural gas inventories than most analysts
forecast.  Canadian National Railway Co. (CNR)  rose 1.5 percent as
North American transportation shares gained on lower  oil prices .  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 1.64
point, or less than 0.1 percent, to 13,605.61 at 12:32 p.m. in
Toronto.  “The home-sales number for the States and the Philly Fed
index have dealt a reality check to the market,” said Andrew Pyle, who helps manage C$200 million ($206 million) as an
associate portfolio manager for Scotia McLeod in Peterborough,
Ontario. “It seems things are not as rosy as some had
believed.”  The S&P/TSX rose 1.7 percent this week through yesterday as
investors took advantage of the lowest share prices relative to
earnings in six months and oil, copper and agricultural
commodities rebounded. The stock benchmark remained down 3.6
percent for the quarter as of yesterday’s close.  Home Sales  U.S. existing-home sales fell 0.8 percent last month, the
National Association of Realtors said today in  Washington . All
but three of 75 economists in a Bloomberg survey had forecast a
gain.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s gauge of
regional manufacturing increased at the slowest pace in seven
months. The reading trailed all 59 economist forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey.  Natural gas futures dropped to the lowest level in a month
after the U.S. Energy Department said supplies increased by 92
billion cubic feet last week. Crude oil declined as much as 1.9
percent.  Canadian Natural slipped 0.8 percent to C$40.42.  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM) , an oil and gas producer with operations in  North
America , the  North Sea  and  Indonesia , lost 1.4 percent to
C$20.26.  Daylight Energy Ltd. (DAY) , which produces oil and gas in
 Canada , decreased 3.4 percent to C$9.85 after cutting its
production forecast.  CN, Canada’s largest railroad, gained 1.5 percent to
C$74.74 as oil prices slid. Trucking company  TransForce Inc. (TFI) 
advanced 1.6 percent to a four-year high of C$15.85.  Banks Retreat  The S&P/TSX Banks Index retreated for the first time in a
week. Royal Bank fell 0.6 percent to C$59.46. Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce, the country’s fifth-largest lender by assets,
dropped 0.5 percent to C$83.58.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , North
America’s fourth-biggest insurer, slipped 0.4 percent to
C$17.39.  Base-metals and coal producers declined after Hong Kong
Monetary Authority said it may ask some banks to set aside more
reserves, raising speculation  China  will take more steps to curb
inflation. Copper retreated for the first time in six days.  Teck Resources Ltd. (TCK/B) , Canada’s largest company in the
industry, lost 1 percent to C$48.20.  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd. (FM) , the country’s second-biggest publicly traded copper
producer, decreased 1.3 percent to C$133.30.  Fertilizer Producers  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc., the world’s largest
fertilizer producer, retreated 1.1 percent to C$52.91 as wheat
futures fluctuated after surging 12 percent this week through
yesterday.  Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Canada’s second-biggest fertilizer
producer, slipped 1 percent to C$78.84.  BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  fell 2.5 percent
to C$43.01 after market-research firm Gartner Inc. said its
share of the global smartphone market fell to 13 percent last
quarter from 20 percent a year earlier.  Electronic-whiteboard maker  Smart Technologies Inc. (SMA)  sank 23
percent to C$7.25, the lowest level since its July initial
public offering, after saying it lost 2 cents a share in the
fourth quarter, excluding certain items. All eight analysts in a
Bloomberg survey had forecast a profit. Analysts at Cowen Group
Inc. and Piper Jaffray Cos. cut their ratings on the company to
“neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  