-- 
Manulife Plans to Boost Insurance Sales to Poor in Vietnam

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-19T16:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/manulife-plans-to-boost-insurance-sales-to-poor-in-vietnam-in-expansion.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)  plans to
increase sales of insurance policies to lower-income earners in
Vietnam by expanding into more regions of the Asian country.  Canada’s largest insurer introduced so-called
microinsurance -- policies that cost clients about $15 a year --
in 2009 through nine Vietnamese provinces, and has sold about
80,000 policies,  Manulife Vietnam  Chief Executive Officer Carl Gustini said. The Toronto-based insurer plans to sell at least
50,000 more this year as it seeks regulatory approval to operate
in an additional 12 provinces.  “The underlying principle is to form a lifelong
relationship with these people,” Gustini said today in an
interview at Bloomberg’s Toronto headquarters. “There’s also
the word of mouth and indirect impact to our brand out in the
provinces.”  Microinsurance caters to about 70 percent of the Southeast
Asian nation that can’t afford a typical $400-a-year life
insurance policy, Gustini said. Manulife plans to use the
product to attract new clients who may become more affluent as
 Vietnam ’s economy improves.  “In many cases, the very concept of insurance, the concept
of paying a premium and providing a savings benefit, is actually
foreign,” said Gustini, 47.  Manulife, which competes with insurers including  AIA Group
Ltd. (1299)  and  Prudential Plc (PRU) , is the first company to offer
microinsurance in Vietnam. Other companies are likely to follow,
said the Australian-born Gustini, who has been head of the
country’s operations since January 2010.  Asset Management  Manulife is also talking with regulators in other Asian
countries including  Philippines  to sell microinsurance. The
insurer may also develop family insurance practices under the
same design.  The Vietnamese government is also “relatively close” to
deciding whether asset-management products such as mutual funds
can be sold in the country, said Gustini.  In the first quarter, about 36 percent of Manulife’s C$965
million ($997 million) in profit came from  Asia . About 1 percent
of Asian earnings comes from Vietnam, Gustini said.  “We would expect over time that as a percentage, that will
ramp up,” said Gustini, who said Manulife has been in Vietnam
for 11 years. “Countries like Vietnam are not short-term profit
players for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 