-- 
Apple, Google, Microsoft, Kodak, RIM: Intellectual Property

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-19T11:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/apple-google-microsoft-kodak-rim-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Google Inc. and other
smartphone technology companies may face tougher European Union
restrictions on the way they handle user-location data after
data privacy watchdogs said the information is private.  Information that could betray the location of devices such
as Apple’s iPhones and phones running Google’s Android software
must be treated as personal, requiring companies to comply with
European Union data protection law, EU privacy officials said in
a nonbinding opinion that was published yesterday.  Users must be given “clear, comprehensive” and
understandable information about how, why and for how long their
data is processed, the so-called Article 29 Data Protection
Working Party said in the  opinion . Technology firms can use
location data to deliver targeted advertising and help customers
find nearby businesses.  Data protection officials in  Europe , including Germany and
France, are investigating recent reports on the collection and
storage of location data on Apple’s iPhones. Apple and Google
last week defended their handling of user location before U.S.
lawmakers.  The opinion, dated May 16, said information collected
through the combination of a Wi-Fi access point with a mobile
device’s location is also personal data, and subject to EU
privacy rules.  “We have seen the Working Party’s paper and we are
reviewing it closely,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Mountain
View, California-based Google, said by telephone. “It’s worth
remembering that Google can’t identify anyone using Wi-Fi header
information, nor would we want to,” Verney said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and an e-mail seeking comment. Apple has said in
statements it is “not tracking the location of your iPhone”
and “has no plans to ever do so.”  While the opinion is nonbinding, it “confirms the position
of the regulators that are going to be policing compliance,”
Ustaran said. “It could potentially lead to sanctions
particularly if any infringements are seen to have an impact on
people’s privacy.”  Apple, Google, Microsoft Queried by U.S. Senator Over Privacy  Senator Richard Blumenthal asked Apple Inc., Google Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  for information about the companies’
collection of data from private wireless networks to create maps
of Wi-Fi service, saying the practice raises privacy concerns.  Blumenthal, a Connecticut Democrat who serves on the Senate
Judiciary Committee, made the request in a letter to the
companies that was released yesterday by his office in
 Washington . The letter also was sent to BlackBerry maker
Research In Motion Ltd., handset manufacturer  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and
Skyhook, a provider of wireless phone location services.  “Attempting to document the locations of personal wireless
networks in individuals’ homes without their knowledge or
consent raises issues what constitutes a reasonable expectation
of privacy for an ordinary citizen,” Blumenthal said in the
letter.  Google Rejects Skyhook’s Allegations Over Phone-Location Service  Google Inc. (GOOG)  rejected allegations that it undermined plans
by Samsung Electronics Co. and the former  Motorola Inc. (MOT)  to use a
competing location-finding service on Android-based mobile
phones.  Skyhook Wireless Inc. , a closely held software company in
Boston, claimed in a September lawsuit that Motorola and Samsung
were willing to pay for its service until Google threatened to
cut off the phonemakers’ access to third-party applications in
the Android Market. Motorola and Samsung rely on Google’s
Android operating system for some of their devices.  Google said it did nothing improper with regard to any
contracts Skyhook had with the phonemakers, according to a May
13 filing in response to the lawsuit in Suffolk County,
 Massachusetts , Superior Court in Boston. The service, a software
system that uses Wi-Fi positions, GPS and cell-tower
triangulation to pinpoint a phone’s location, is used by
advertisers and businesses to target potential customers.  “To the extent Google took any action that affected
Skyhook, those actions were the lawful exercise of legitimate
rights of Google and therefore are not actionable,” Mountain
View, California-based Google said in the filing. “If Skyhook
suffered any damages, which is denied, then any such damages
resulted solely from its own acts or omissions.”  In a separate complaint in federal court in Boston, Skyhook
has claimed that Google infringed four of its patents related to
ways to establish the precise location of a smartphone. Google
has denied infringing the patents, and said in court filings
that the patents are invalid.  The state case is Skyhook Wireless Inc. v. Google Inc.,
2010-3652, Massachusetts Superior Court, Suffolk County
(Boston). The patent case is Skyhook Wireless v. Google Inc.,
10cv11571, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  Patent  Genentech  Sues Apotex Claiming Valcyte Patent Infringement  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech unit sued Apotex Inc. for
planning to sell a generic version of Valcyte, which treats a
virus that afflicts transplant patients and people with AIDS,
before Genentech’s patent for the drug expires.  Apotex, based in Toronto, told Genentech on April 6 that it
had applied for approval from the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to make a generic of Valcyte, according to the
complaint filed May 17 in federal court in  San Francisco .  Genentech, based in South San Francisco, California, said
the plan to market the generic will cause “massive
infringement” of its patent covering the drug. Genentech seeks
a court order declaring that the Apotex generic is a patent-
infringing drug, blocking the FDA from approving it until
Genentech’s patent expires in 2015 and barring Apotex from
engaging in commercial activity that would infringe the
Genentech patent.  Genentech last month filed a suit based on similar claims
against Sandoz Inc., a unit of Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis
AG. (NOVN)   Roche has sued other drug manufacturers over generic copies
of Valcyte. The company settled a lawsuit with Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. last year with Ranbaxy agreeing to sell its
generic copy of Valcyte in 2013, two years before a patent
expires, Basel-based Roche said in an August statement.  Elie Betito, an Apotex spokesman, said the company hadn’t
reviewed the complaint and had no immediate comment.  The case is Genentech Inc. v. Apotex Inc., 11-2410, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  ITC Staff Issues Favorable Patent Recommendations for Kodak  The staff of the U.S. International Trade Commission has
sided with  Eastman Kodak Co. (EK)  in its patent dispute with  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  and Apple Inc. The staff found that RIM and Apple
have infringed a Kodak patent on a way to preview digital images
using less processing power and storage space. The
recommendations, originally filed last month, were made public
May 17. The six-member commission is scheduled to release its
decision June 23.  Kodak, based in Rochester,  New York , is “looking forward
to the full ITC’s decision,” David Lanzillo, a company
spokesman, said by e-mail. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for
Cupertino, California-based Apple, and Marisa Conway, a
spokeswoman for Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM, didn’t immediately
reply to e-mails and telephone calls seeking comment.  The staff recommended that the ITC issue an order barring
imports of Apple’s iPhone and RIM’s Blackberry, saying the
public interest and competition in the marketplace wouldn’t be
harmed.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial arbiter of trade disputes.
While the agency can’t order monetary damages, the threat of
being shut out of the U.S. market often provides the incentive
for settlements. The agency doesn’t always follow the
recommendations of its staff, which acts as a third party in ITC
cases.  The patent in dispute covers a feature that previews low-
resolution versions of a moving image while recording still
images at a high resolution. Higher resolution requires more
processing power and storage space. Kodak, which generated $838
million from patents last year, contends the image-preview
feature is used in every digital camera and phone with a camera.  On May 13, in a separate case, a U.S. International Trade
Commission judge said Kodak’s digital-camera technology doesn’t
violate Apple Inc.’s patent rights. The judge’s findings are
subject to review by the six-member ITC, which has the power to
block imports of products that infringe U.S. patents.  The case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile Telephones and
Wireless Communication Devices Featuring Digital Cameras, and
Components Thereof, 337-703, U.S. International Trade Commission
(Washington).  Mosaid Technologies Files Patent Claim Against Cisco at ITC  Mosaid Technologies Inc. (MSD)  filed a patent-infringement
complaint against  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s largest maker
of networking equipment, before the U.S. International Trade
Commission.  Mosaid claims certain Cisco routers and modems,
manufactured overseas and sold in the U.S., infringe six of its
patents. Those patents relate to power-over-Ethernet products,
which carry electrical current over data cables rather than
power cords, Ottawa-based Mosaid said in a statement yesterday.  Mosaid, a designer of semiconductors that received all of
its $71 million in revenue last year from patent licensing, is
already in a patent battle with San Jose, California-based
Cisco. That case, initiated by Cisco and pending in federal
court in Delaware, relates to the six patents in the ITC case
and four others.  The ITC, which can block imports of products found to
violate U.S. patents, must decide whether to investigate
Mosaid’s claims. If the agency takes the case, it would need
about 15 months to complete the review.  The case is In the Matter of Communications Networks,
including Switches, Routers, Gateways, Bridges, Wireless Access
Points, Cable Modems, IP Phones, 2807, U.S. International Trade
Commission (Washington).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Disney Defeats Trademark Suit Over ‘Little Miss’ T-Shirts  Walt Disney Co. won dismissal of a lawsuit alleging that
the entertainment company’s sales of t-shirts bearing the logo
“Little Miss” infringed trademarks held by London-based THOIP.  THOIP received the rights to the Mr. Men and Little Miss
marks, books and characters in 2004 from the family of
children’s author Roger Hargreaves, according to the complaint
filed in 2008 in Manhattan federal court. Hargreaves created the
characters in 1971 and died in 1988.  U.S. District Judge Shira Scheindlin said in a ruling
issued May 17 that she had previously found in favor of Disney
and had allowed the two sides to submit additional evidence to
determine if there was any product confusion.  The judge said that after further review, she stood by her
earlier ruling that there was “virtually no chance that a
consumer seeing an allegedly infringing ‘Miss Disney shirt’ or
‘Little Miss Disney shirt’ would think it came from, was
affiliated with or was approved by THOIP.”  The case is THOIP v. Walt Disney Co., 1:08-cv-06823, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  U.K. Looks at Loosening Copyright Laws to Boost Creative Jobs  U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable welcomed proposals to
loosen copyright laws, saying they’d help creative industries
grow by making it easier to use material.  A report yesterday by Ian Hargreaves, an academic at
Cardiff Business School, recommended the government set up a
Digital Copyright Exchange, where licenses to use material could
be traded, and make it easier to use “orphan works,” whose
authors can’t be traced.  Cable also welcomed proposals to make it legal to copy for
private purposes, including ripping music from compact discs,
something currently forbidden in the U.K.  “Such format-shifting is unlawful, though the music
industry has made it clear that it does not intend to act
against consumers who do it,” Cable said in a speech in  London 
yesterday. “So the consequence of the ban on format-shifting is
simply to make it harder for a British entrepreneur to compete
with technology developed in the U.S. and other countries where
there’s no such ban.”  For more copyright news, click here.  Internet  Baidu Accused in U.S. Lawsuit of Aiding Chinese Censorship  Baidu Inc., the owner of  China ’s most popular search
engine, was sued by eight Chinese residents of New York who say
the company helps the Chinese government censor political
expression in violation of the U.S. Constitution.  The plaintiffs’ “writings, publications and coverage of
pro-democracy events has been censored and banned from any
search performed on the Baidu.com Inc. search engine,” they
said in a complaint filed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  China “openly and routinely uses censorship of political
speech and information on the Internet to silence criticism of
the government in China and the ruling Chinese Communist
Party,” the plaintiffs allege in their complaint.  The plaintiffs are also charging that Baidu and China
violated New York state civil rights laws. They are demanding
$16 million in damages from Baidu and the Chinese government,
which is also a defendant.  “China will be required to answer the complaint or there
will be a default judgment against them,” Stephen Preziosi, the
New York-based lawyer representing the plaintiffs, said in a
telephone interview.  Baidu has enjoyed a “near monopoly” in Internet searches
in China since Google Inc. cut back on operations there,
according to a presentation this month by brokerage CLSA Ltd.  Kaiser Kuo, a spokesman for Baidu, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Zhang v. Baidu.com Inc., 11-3388, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  