-- 
Arab Spring Spurs Israel to Ice Peace Plan Before Netanyahu-Obama Meeting

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 
2011-05-19T12:12:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/arab-spring-spurs-netanyahu-to-abandon-peace-proposal-before-obama-meeting.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had been preparing to greet President  Barack Obama  at
the White House tomorrow with a proposal to resurrect Middle
East peace talks, advisers said.  That was until Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  this month signed a reconciliation accord with Hamas --
classified as a terrorist group by  Israel  and the U.S. -- and
dozens of Palestinians from  Syria  breached a border May 15, with
similar efforts on three other fronts.  Netanyahu decided, his advisers said, that peace talks can
wait.  “Three week ago, it was his intention to convey a message
that would express his commitment to the resumption of
negotiations aimed at establishing a Palestinian state,” said
Zalman Shoval, a foreign policy adviser traveling with Netanyahu
in the U.S. and a former Israeli ambassador to  Washington . “All
that was turned topsy-turvy.”  Palestinians paint the scenario differently, saying
Netanyahu has never been serious about the  peace process  and
keeps offering repackaged proposals they’ve already rejected.  Netanyahu and Obama meet Friday amid Palestinian efforts to
seek United Nations recognition for an independent state in
September. Obama has also been pressing for a resumption of
peace talks, which were launched in Washington last year and
broke down weeks after they began following Netanyahu’s refusal
to extend a 10-month partial settlement construction freeze that
Palestinian leaders demanded.  ‘Ever Have One’  “Netanyahu did not have a peace plan before the
reconciliation and not during or after the reconciliation,”
 Saeb Erakat , Abbas’s chief negotiator, said in a telephone
interview. “I don’t think he will ever have one.”  Emboldened by popular protests forcing change across the
Arab world, Palestinian leaders have been focusing on uniting
the  West Bank  and Gaza Strip and have largely abandoned efforts
to continue talks with Israel that they consider fruitless.  “Netanyahu needs to stop putting all these barriers in the
way and come back to peace talks so we can build a Palestinian
state,” said Ali al-Wazeer, 26, who works at a print shop in
Gaza City. “Palestinians will never go back to the negotiating
table while Israel keeps building settlements.”  The West Bank and Gaza Strip have been divided since 2006,
when Hamas took control of Gaza with a violent purge of
officials from Abbas’s Fatah movement. Since then, the
Palestinian Authority has ruled only the West Bank.  Broad Support  Netanyahu’s caution parallels the fears of his voters who
are concerned that pro-democracy protests throughout the Arab
world will lead to regimes that are more hostile to Israel,
while Palestinian unity will increase the influence of Hamas,
which doesn’t recognize the state of Israel.  “The reconciliation has solidified Netanyahu’s position at
home and plays to his strengths as a tough-talker,” Aaron  David Miller , a former member of the U.S. team mediating Middle East
peace talks. “He is no longer the bad guy. He is under no
pressure to make any concessions in these circumstances.”  Netanyahu told the Knesset, Israel’s parliament, this week
that he has not given up on peace talks with the Palestinians.
He outlined a series of requirements, though, that  Palestinian
Authority  President Mahmoud Abbas has rejected in the past as
conditions for a peace agreement, including Palestinian
recognition of Israel as a “Jewish state” and that no
Palestinian refugees be resettled in Israel.  Israeli opposition leader  Tzipi Livni , head of the Kadima
Party, said Netanyahu is “going to the U.S. with no vision or
action plan.”  New Initiative  Netanyahu was considering a new initiative that would have
called for a phased peace process if Palestinians balked at a
comprehensive agreement, a government official said in March,
speaking on condition of anonymity.  Netanyahu’s Oval Office meeting comes a day after Obama is
to give a speech outlining his approach to trying to improve
U.S. relations with the Arab world. Both Netanyahu and the U.S.
president will address the annual policy conference next week of
the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a pro-Israeli
lobbying group. Netanyahu is scheduled to deliver a speech to a
joint session of Congress May 24 before he returns to Israel.  Palestinians say they expect little from all the diplomatic
activity.  “It’s clever of Obama to present all these speeches
addressing the Muslims, Arabs and Palestinians, but he really
can’t do anything practical on the ground,” Talal Oukal, a
political scientist at Al-Azhar University in the  Gaza Strip ,
said in a phone interview. “Nobody thinks he’ll be able to
convince Netanyahu to change his policies and freeze
settlement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger at   jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 