-- 
Aramex of Dubai Targets Courier Business Growth, Acquisitions in Africa

-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-05-19T12:56:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/aramex-targets-courier-business-growth-acquisitions-in-africa.html
Aramex PJSC, the Middle East’s
largest courier company, wants to grow in  Africa  and has set
aside up to $70 million for expansion and acquisitions there
over the next two years.  Aramex is focusing on Africa because it sees the continent
as an underserved market, Chief Executive Officer Fadi Ghandour
said in an interview. “Africa is where we think our future
expansion is going to be,” the CEO said today in Dubai, where
Aramex is based. “All our energy is going to be on Africa.”  The company’s top line continues to grow 10 percent to 15
percent a year despite the impact on customers of rising oil
prices, the CEO said. Aramex also expects double-digit revenue
growth this year and second-quarter earnings in line with first-
quarter results, the CEO said, reiterating an earlier forecast.  Aramex plans at least two or three acquisitions in Africa,
the CEO said, adding that “most of the multinationals there
don’t provide their full-fledged services.” Competitors have
been ignoring the continent, and “they don’t invest in
technology or infrastructure,” he said.  Aramex earlier this year acquired Oneworld Courier and In-
Time Couriers in  Kenya . The east African nation expects its
economy to grow 6.1 percent this year compared with more than 5
percent a year ago, Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  said May 19.  Africa is home to six of the 20 projected fastest-growing
countries this year, according to the  International Monetary
Fund . Sub-Saharan Africa will be the fastest-growing region in
the world, after developing  Asia , this year and in 2012.  Uganda, Tanzania  The company expects to begin operations in Uganda in July
and to enter Tanzania at about the same time, Hussein Hachem,
chief executive officer for the Middle East and Africa, said
during the same interview. This may lead to openings in other
sub-Saharan markets, including  Rwanda ,  Burundi  and southern
 Sudan , Hachem said.  “Our positioning is to enable the small, medium and the
multinational firms to trade and connect east Africa to the
outside world,” the executive said.  Aramex, which has operations in the west African country of
Ghana, also wants to expand into Nigeria, Ivory Coast, Senegal,
Cameron and Angola, Hachem said.  South Africa , Africa’s biggest economy, has an advanced
logistics infrastructure and will be a key hub, the executive
said.  E-Commerce  The Gulf Arab region remains the key growth driver for
Aramex, comprising up to 70 percent of revenue, CEO Ghandour
said. Aramex’s biggest growth area is the e-commerce business,
which is expanding more than 25 percent globally year-on-year as
a “direct result of purchasing power in the Gulf,” he said.  Dubai, home to the company’s largest facility, is
recovering from the credit crunch, with revenue up 10 percent in
the first quarter, the first quarterly improvement since the
crisis began, Ghandour said. Bahrain, Syria and  Egypt  remain
slow, he said.  Egypt is suffering from “a gloomy mood in business, with
empowerment in the street but people are not working,” Ghandour
said. “Trading is back but industries have been affected and the
restrictions on currency transfers make trading it more
difficult.”  As business in other countries in the region slows due to
the unrest, growing demand in the Gulf will play a balancing
role, the CEO said, noting that several Gulf governments have
boosted public spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  