-- 
Large Earthquake Closer to Tokyo Is Possible, Study Suggests

-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-20T03:57:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/large-quake-closer-to-tokyo-is-possible-study.html
The earthquake that shook  Japan  in
March, triggering a tsunami that left more than 24,000 people
dead or missing, was bigger than seismologists expected and may
indicate another large temblor closer to Tokyo is possible, U.S.
researchers said.  Before the 9-magnitude quake on March 11, the buildup of
tension along a fault had suggested a smaller tremor, scientists
led by  Mark Simons , a professor of geophysics at the  California
Institute of Technology  in  Pasadena , wrote yesterday in
 Sciencexpress , the online version of the journal Science.  The so-called Great East Japan Earthquake happened on a
fault known as the Japan Trench megathrust, where the Pacific
Plate sinks below the plate on which Japan sits at about 8
centimeters (3 inches) a year, the researchers said. During the
 quake , some parts of the Pacific Plate slipped as much as 60
meters, which is as much as three times more than the temblor
that rocked Chile in February last year.  “The extent to which the 2011 earthquake was unexpected
suggests that we should consider the potential for similar large
events elsewhere on the Japan Trench megathrust,” Simons and
colleagues wrote. “An earthquake similar to the 2011 event is
possible offshore Ibaraki and Fukushima just south of the most
recent event.”  Sea Mountain  The researchers hypothesized that a mountain on the seabed
of the sinking plate may have prevented it from slipping for as
long as 1,000 years, leading seismologists to the false
conclusion that it was sliding slowly under the Japan plate
without building up quake-generating tension. Instead, the
mountain may have been limiting the amount of slip on
neighboring areas and accumulating tension, they wrote.  An area south of where the quake occurred that hasn’t
ruptured may hold the potential for another large temblor, the
researchers wrote.  Scientists should make “a concerted effort to determine
the extent to which this area is stuck with the potential for
generating a large earthquake or whether it is creeping, thereby
posing less of a threat,” Simons said in an e-mail.  A 6-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast east of  Tokyo 
at 9:46 a.m. today,  according  to the  U.S. Geological Survey . It
was the biggest aftershock to hit the country since  May 14 , when
a 6.2-magnitude temblor struck further north.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Singapore at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  