-- 
Argentine Plane Crashes in Patagonia, Killing All 22 Passengers and Crew

-- B y   B i l l   F a r i e s   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:18:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/argentina-sol-lineas-airline-crash-kills-22-people-in-rio-negro-province.html
A twin-engine airplane operated by
 Argentina ’s Sol Lineas Aereas SA crashed in the Patagonian
province of Rio Negro last night, killing all 22 people aboard,
the company said.  Sol flight 5428 was flying from the city of Neuquen to
Comodoro Rivadavia when the pilot reported an emergency at 8:50
p.m. local time, Sol said in an e-mailed statement. That was the
last communication between the airplane and controllers.
Nineteen passengers, including one child, and three crew members
were on board.  The airplane was a 34-seat Saab 340 model, Antonio
Perdomenico, a Sol airport official, said in an interview with
television channel Todo Noticias. Sol’s entire fleet is made up
of Saab 340s, Perdomenico said. The plane was built by
Stockholm-based  Saab AB (SAABB)  in 1985, company spokesman Peter Liander
said in a telephone interview.  Saab made 459 of the propeller planes from 1984 to 1999 and
they have had a total of four deadly crashes, Liander said.  “This is a very safe plane,” Liander said. “We don’t
want to speculate about the cause of the accident.”  Connecting Oil Regions  Sol operates primarily domestic flights within Argentina
and also flies to neighboring Uruguay. The flight between
Comodoro Rivadavia and Neuquen connects Argentina’s two largest
oil producing regions in the southern part of the country.  Argentina has had two major airplane accidents in the past
two decades. A Lineas Aereas Argentinas Privadas SA flight
crashed on takeoff at an airport in  Buenos Aires  in August 1999,
killing 67. Two years earlier, 74 people died when an Austral
Lineas Aereas plane crashed in Uruguayan territory shortly
before the flight was due to land in Buenos Aires.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bill Faries in Buenos Aires at 
 wfaries@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Buenos Aires at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  