-- 
Armstrong Rejects Accusation He Used EPO in Winning 1999 Tour de France

-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/armstrong-used-epo-in-1999-tour-former-teammate-hamilton-tells-cbs-news.html
Lance Armstrong  rejected an 
accusation by former teammate Tyler Hamilton that he used a
blood-boosting drug while winning the first of his record seven
Tour de  France  titles in 1999.  Hamilton told “60 Minutes” correspondent Scott Pelley
that he saw erythropoietin, or EPO, in Armstrong’s refrigerator
and that he witnessed his U.S. Postal Service teammate inject
the banned substance, which boosts the number of oxygen-carrying
red blood cells and improves stamina.  Hamilton’s interview, portions of which were shown last
night on the  CBS Evening News , will be broadcast May 22.
Hamilton tested positive for blood doping at the 2004 Athens
Olympics and later was suspended twice for using performance-
enhancing drugs.  “Hamilton just duped the CBS Evening News, 60 Minutes and
Scott Pelley all in one fell swoop,” Armstrong’s spokesman,
Mark Fabiani, said in an  e-mailed statement . “Hamilton is
actively seeking to make money by writing a book, and now he has
completely changed the story he has always told before so that
he could get himself on 60 Minutes and increase his chances with
publishers.”  Armstrong, 39, who retired from cycling in February, has
denied doping and has never failed a drug test. He won the  Tour
de France  every year from 1999 to 2005 after surviving
testicular cancer that spread to his brain.  “Greed and a hunger for publicity cannot change the facts:
Lance Armstrong is the most tested athlete in the history of
sports,” Fabiani’s statement said. “He has passed nearly 500
tests over 20 years of competition.”  Grand Jury Probe  Federal authorities have convened a grand jury in  Los
Angeles  to probe whether Armstrong and his former U.S. Postal
team -- which included Hamilton -- were involved in a doping
program.  Floyd Landis , another former teammate of Armstrong who was
stripped of the 2006 Tour de France title because of doping,
sent cycling authorities a series of e-mails last year accusing
Armstrong and U.S. Postal team officials of breaking doping
rules. Armstrong and other team officials denied those
accusations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  