-- 
Asia’s Rich Look to London Property Investments, Standard Chartered Says

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   H a s l i n d a   A m i n
-- 
2011-05-19T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/asia-s-rich-look-to-property-in-london-standard-chartered-says.html
Asian private banking clients are
investing in property in developed markets including  London  to
curtail risks, according to  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K.
lender that makes most of its profit in the region.  “We’re seeing quite a flow into the U.K., into prime
property in London, both commercial and residential,” the
bank’s global head of private banking, Shayne Nelson, said in an
interview in  Singapore . “The global financial crisis certainly
affected risk appetite and it’s not anywhere near back to what
it was.”  Standard Chartered  will focus on emerging markets for
private banking growth as it seeks to woo millionaires in Asia,
the Middle East and Africa, Nelson said. Asia, which generated a
record 5.9 billion pounds ($9.5 billion) in revenue for the
London-based bank last year, will have more rich people than the
Americas for the first time by 2013, he said.  “The wealth creation in  Asia  is pretty incredible,”
Nelson, 52, said yesterday. “In  China , there are 477,000 high-
net worth individuals, or people with $1 million or more of cash
to invest. And it’s not just China, but India and  Indonesia .”  Private banking assets under management globally grew 31
percent to $46 billion as of Dec. 31, according to a 2011
 outlook statement  issued March 2 by the bank. Assets in Asia,
where Standard Chartered is the sixth-largest private bank,
increased 39 percent as the region’s economic expansion drove
demand for credit cards and wealth management services.  Wooing Business Owners  Growth this year will be driven by selling more products
and services to Standard Chartered’s existing wholesale and
consumer banking clients, Singapore-based Nelson said. About 64
percent of high-net worth individuals are business owners, he
estimated.  “Because we have a huge business base, especially in
places like  India , tapping into that is very important,” he
said. “We’ve got the clients and they have private banking
relationships, just not with Standard Chartered.”  One of the biggest risks to growth is an industry-wide
escalation in costs as staff expenses increase, Nelson said. The
bank expects to hire another 300 private bankers globally by
2013, bringing the total to 750, Nelson said at a conference in
October.  “We’re seeing cost escalation right across the board,”
Nelson said from Singapore, where Standard Chartered employs 150
private bankers. “That’s because there is huge wealth
accumulation in Asia and not enough private bankers.”  Nelson was appointed to his current role in April last year
to replace Peter Flavel, who later quit. A 14-year veteran of
the bank, Nelson is also chairman of  Standard Chartered Saadiq ,
its Islamic banking unit, and was previously chief executive
officer of operations in the Middle East and North  Africa , based
in Dubai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net 
Haslinda Amin in Singapore at 
 hamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  