-- 
Massey Found to Be ‘Profoundly Reckless’ in Coal-Mine Blast That Killed 29

-- B y   H o l l y   R o s e n k r a n t z
-- 
2011-05-19T20:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/massey-energy-is-found-at-fault-in-fatal-west-virginia-coal-mine-explosion.html
Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  is to blame for the
fatal explosion at its Upper Big Branch mine in  West Virginia 
last year, the deadliest U.S. mining disaster in 40 years, an
investigator for the state said.  “A company that was a towering presence in the Appalachian
coalfields operated its mines in a profoundly reckless manner,
and 29 coal miners paid with their lives for the corporate risk-
taking,” according to a report released today. “The company
broke faith with its workers by frequently and knowingly
violating the law and blatantly disregarding known safety
practices.”  The report by former federal mine administrator J. Davitt McAteer, named in 2010 by West Virginia Governor  Joe Manchin  to
examine the blast, is among three government investigations of
the disaster. Federal and state mining agencies have yet to
issue reports. Massey agreed in January to be acquired by  Alpha
Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  for $7.1 billion.  Massey fell 84 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $60.97 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Alpha fell 88
cents, or 1.7 percent, to $50.27.  McAteer’s investigation found that the disaster was man-
made and preventable had Massey followed “basic, well-tested”
safety procedures. The report cited failures to maintain a
functioning ventilation system, comply with federal and state
rock-dusting standards and properly maintain the safety features
on mine machinery.  Gas Inundation  Massey has denied that a buildup of coal dust played a role
in the blast, and General Counsel Shane Harvey today repeated
that the company believes a massive inundation of natural gas is
to blame.  “Our experts continue to study the UBB explosion and our
goal is to find answers and technologies that ultimately make
mining safer,” Harvey said in an e-mail.  Alpha considered the continuing investment and litigation
in acquiring Massey,  Ted Pile , a spokesman, said in a phone
interview. “In regard to the report today, we haven’t had time
to thoroughly review it, but we will,” he said.  The report urges the U.S.  Mine Safety and Health
Administration  and state regulators to coordinate mine-safety
investigations more thoroughly. It recommends that every mine
superintendent be certified by a state agency in underground
mining and in carrying out the safety laws at individual mines.  Investigators found that safety laws let companies use
administrative or judicial reviews to avoid or delay penalties.
“Mine operators know they can contest violations and tie them
up in litigation for years,” according to the report.  Kline, Rockefeller  Representative  John Kline , a Minnesota Republican who is
chairman of the House committee that oversees mine-safety laws,
said the McAteer report is “deeply disturbing.”  Democrats including Senator  Jay Rockefeller  of West
Virginia and Representative  George Miller  of  California , the top
Democrat on Kline’s committee, said the recommendations should
encourage Congress to tighten mine safety laws.  Kline said overhauling laws won’t protect miners “if the
federal enforcement agency fails to do its job and mine
operators ignore safety standards.”  The McAteer report shows the mining company violated safety
rules and failed to fix compliance problems, said Joseph Main,
assistant secretary for MSHA.  “Massey promoted a culture that ‘prized production over
safety’ and where ‘wrongdoing became acceptable,’” Main said in
a statement.  Miner Intimidation  Massey used tactics to intimidate miners and discourage
them from reporting unsafe conditions, he said.  In its findings, the report said inspections at the start
of work shifts have become “a meaningless exercise” carried
out by mine operators. “Their examinations are characterized by
a monotonous routine and reliance on ‘dittos’ and
abbreviations,” according to the report.  McAteer’s report recommends requiring a quarterly study
certifying compliance with all safety standards, and sanctions
for knowingly or negligently falsifying an official document.  The report also calls for provisions similar to those
contained in the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  to make a company’s board
accountable for mine-safety compliance. A criminal penalty
should be assessed on board members who certify that a mine is
in compliance when it isn’t.  “There is a disconnect where the board of directors have
authority, but they do not have responsibility,” McAteer said
in a reporters’ briefing.  The report said regulators should require mine operators to
maintain and continually update records on the amount of rock
dust purchased and used daily. Failure to keep adequate records
would result in a citation with a monetary fine.  Manchin, a Democrat, was elected to the  U.S. Senate  last
year to succeed Senator  Robert Byrd , who died June 28 at age 92  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holly Rosenkrantz in Washington at 
 hrosenkrantz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  