-- 
Atlantic Hurricane Season May Have Above-Normal 18 Named Storms, U.S. Says

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-05-19T17:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/atlantic-may-produce-as-many-as-18-named-storms-u-s-says-2-.html
The Atlantic  hurricane season  will be
“above normal” this year with 12 to 18 named storms, the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  said.  Six to 10 of those storms may become hurricanes and 3 to 6
are likely to become major systems with winds of at least 111
mph (178 kph), the agency said today in a statement. The
Atlantic storm season begins June 1.  “The U.S. was lucky last year,”  Jane Lubchenco , NOAA
administrator, said today on a conference call with reporters.
“The winds that steer where storms go kept them away from our
coastline. We cannot count on having the same luck this year.”  Arlene, Bret, Cindy and Don are the  first names  that will
be assigned to storms this year, according to NOAA.  Climate conditions that developed in 1995 remain in place
in the Atlantic Ocean and will contribute to a higher-than-
average storm total and more powerful hurricanes, Lubchenco
said. Ocean temperatures are 2 degrees Fahrenheit (1.1 degrees
Celsius) above normal this year, compared with 4 degrees in
2010.  “We still expect it to support an above-normal hurricane
season,” Lubchenco said.  The Atlantic  storm season  began last year as  BP Plc (BP)  sought
to control its Macondo well in the  Gulf of Mexico , which spewed
millions of gallons of oil after a drilling rig exploded on
April 20. The well off the Louisiana coast was plugged Aug. 6
and work wasn’t interrupted by tropical storms.  Hurricane Karl  In September, Hurricane Karl intensified in the
southwestern Gulf, forcing closure of  oil wells  as it approached
 Mexico ’s east coast. The Gulf accounts for about 31 percent of
U.S. oil output and 10 percent of natural gas production.  “Far too many people will not be prepared and will try to
get ready in the last minutes when the hurricane is threatening
their community,” said  Craig Fugate , administrator of the
 Federal Emergency Management Agency . “Of all the hazards we
deal with, hurricanes are the ones that should be the least
surprising.”  The Atlantic season last year was the third-most active on
record, with 19 named storms, including 12 hurricanes and 5 that
were classified as major storms. None reached the U.S.
coastline.  A year ago, NOAA forecast as many as 23 named storms, with
8 to 14 becoming hurricanes. The forecast was scaled back in
August to as many as 20 named storms, with 8 to 12 hurricanes.  An  average season  has 11 named storms, according to NOAA.  A tropical storm gets a name when sustained winds reach 39
mph. It becomes a hurricane when winds reach 74 mph, and is a
major storm, known as Category 3, at 111 mph.  The season runs through Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  