-- 
Bank of Nova Scotia’s Mexico Chief Says Demand for Banks Loans Is Rising

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/bank-of-nova-scotia-s-mexico-ceo-says-demand-for-loans-rising.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s head of
operations in Mexico said the demand for mortgages and
commercial loans is increasing in the country as the economy
recovers.  “If you look at the macroeconomic indicators, there are
positive signs all around,” Chief Executive Officer Nicole Reich de Polignac said yesterday during an interview at
Scotiabank’s Toronto headquarters. “We’re starting to see
Mexico coming back.”  Latin America ’s second-biggest economy has been
accelerating faster than the government previously expected,
with the Mexican peso climbing 5.4 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this year. The expansion has increased confidence among
consumers and companies, de Polignac said.  “Things are really improving,” said de Polignac, who has
been head of  Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Inverlat  since 2007.
“We do see now mortgages and commercial loans going up.”  Lending at Mexican banks may increase by at least double
the growth of gross domestic product this year, said de
Polignac, who is also on the executive committee for the  Mexican
Bankers Association .  Canada’s third-largest bank by assets is also  Mexico ’s
seventh-largest lender with outstanding loans of 110.4 billion
pesos ($9.4 billion), or 5 percent of the market total,
according to a March report from the nation’s  Banking and
Securities Commission , known as CNBV.  Attracting ‘Under-Banked’  Scotiabank plans to attract Mexico’s “under-banked”
population by signing partnerships with retailers in remote
areas that allow customers to pay bills and deposit funds in
stores. The lender has agreements in 1,600 locations and may
sign as many as 10,000, de Polignac said.  “The opportunity is huge,” she said. “Getting to the
under-banked in Mexico is a challenge, but it’s going to take
time.”  Scotiabank is also considering allowing customers to make
transactions with their mobile phones. Banks in Mexico are
awaiting regulatory approval for the service, she said.  The bank has 710 offices in Mexico, including about 45
asset-management locations, compared with 1,024 branches in
 Canada  at the end of January.  “We’d like to reach 1,000 branches in Mexico in the long-
term,” de Polignac said. “That’s the minimum size we need” to
compete against lenders including BBVA Bancomer and Grupo
Financiero Banorte SA.  Scotiabank reported last month that first-quarter profit
from Mexico was C$75 million ($77.3 million), a 7.1 percent
increase from the year-earlier period on higher net interest
income and lower provisions for bad loans. The results will add
C$84 million to the bank’s profit when it reports fiscal second-
quarter results this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 