-- 
Bank of America Will Sell BlackRock Stake Back to Company for $2.5 Billion

-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 
2011-05-19T19:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/bank-of-america-will-sell-blackrock-stake-back-to-company-for-2-5-billion.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender by assets, agreed to sell its remaining stake in
 BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  back to the world’s biggest money manager for
about $2.5 billion.  The bank will sell 13.6 million shares to New York-based
BlackRock for $187.65 apiece, 3.6 percent less than the average
closing price for the preceding 15 days, BlackRock said today in
a statement. Bank of America acquired a 34 percent stake in
BlackRock when it took over Merrill Lynch & Co. in 2009 and has
been gradually reducing its holdings.  The proceeds may help Bank of America resolve mounting
claims from mortgage buyers, insurers and regulators tied to
defective home loans. Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
told investors this month his bank still “struggles mightily”
with fallout from the 2008 purchase of mortgage lender
Countrywide Financial Corp. Refunds and legal settlements
dragged down first-quarter profit 36 percent to $2.05 billion.  “This is cash coming in, which is a positive event, as
opposed to all the other remaining tasks” Moynihan has related
to resolving mortgage liabilities, said Jonathan Hatcher, a
credit strategist at Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “It’s nice to
get $2.5 billion, but that’s probably a drop in the bucket
relative to everything else they have going on.”  Bank of America slipped 8 cents to $11.71 at 2:18 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. BlackRock added
$5.06, or 2.6 percent, to $198.31.  Unwinding the Stake  The deal dissolves the last of what once had been a 49.8
percent stake in BlackRock acquired by Merrill Lynch in
September 2006, in exchange for the brokerage’s fund-management
unit. The transaction announced today would complete Bank of
America’s exit from what the firm considered a “non-core
asset,” said  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based lender. In November, the company raised
$8.3 billion by selling 51.2 million BlackRock shares.  “There is a long history of collaboration between Bank of
America Merrill Lynch and BlackRock that focuses on providing
exceptional investment solutions for our respective clients,”
Moynihan said in the statement. The transaction “will have no
effect on our commitment to continuing this very successful
partnership.”  The transaction will be completed about June 1, BlackRock
said. The stock will be retired, which will immediately boost
BlackRock’s earning per share, the statement said.  Competitors Pass Review  Bank of America was left behind as competitors including
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. passed a Federal
Reserve review of their capital plans and then increased their
dividends. The lender will resubmit its plan to raise its 1-cent
a share payout when management is sure regulators will accept
it, Moynihan told investors this month at the annual shareholder
meeting.  Thomas K. Montag, head of Bank of America’s global banking
and markets division, will remain on BlackRock’s board, the firm
said. Montag replaced  Sallie Krawcheck , president of Bank of
America’s wealth management division, on BlackRock’s board this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net .
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 