-- 
Bearish Options May Bode Well for S&P 500: Technical Analysis

-- B y   L u   W a n g
-- 
2011-05-19T06:48:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/bearish-options-may-bode-well-for-s-p-500-technical-analysis.html
Bearish options outnumbered bullish
bets by the widest margin since the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
made its bottom this year, a sign that U.S. stocks may be due
for a rebound, according to Birinyi Associates Inc.  The ratio of puts to calls on U.S. indexes increased to
1.15 on May 17, the highest in two months. Since the S&P 500
began its rally from a 12-year low in March 2009, the options
ratio had risen or stayed above that level on five occasions
analyzed by Kevin Pleines, an analyst with Westport,
Connecticut-based Birinyi, who found that four of those times
the market was higher a month later.  “Historic precedence in this  bull market  suggests this
might signal the end of a pullback,” Pleines said in an
interview. “This bearish indictor has been a positive signal
for the market.”  The S&P 500 has slipped 1.7 percent from an almost three-
year high on April 29 amid concern that  Greece  may have to
restructure its debt and as economic data on housing and
industrial production damped optimism about the U.S. recovery. A
Citigroup Inc. index tracking economic reports compared with
analyst estimates turned negative this month for the first time
since December, after reaching a record-high 97.5 in March.  Contrarian Indicator  A rising ratio of puts to calls shows traders are becoming
more pessimistic, a positive sign to some analysts who view
sentiment as a contrarian indicator. More pessimism suggests the
shares are likely to rise because bearish investors may have
sold their holdings and would have to buy to get back in. Calls
convey the right, without the obligation, to buy a security at a
set price by a given date, while puts give investors the right
to sell.  The  S&P 500  resumed its two-year rally on March 16, when
the ratio of puts to calls jumped to 1.17, the highest level
since September 2010. The benchmark advanced 5 percent in the
following month.  Technical analysts study charts of trading patterns and
prices to predict changes in a security, commodity, currency or
index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  