-- 
Belka Is Against ‘Too Many’ Polish Interest-Rate Increases, Rp.pl Reports

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-19T15:26:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/belka-is-against-too-many-polish-interest-rate-increases-rp-pl-reports.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek Belka said policy makers want to ensure there aren’t “too
many” interest-rate increases and that accelerating inflation
hasn’t led to secondary economic effects.  While Belka told the Polish newspaper Rzeczpospolita that
the current rate-increase cycle is “not finished,” policy
maker Andrzej Bratkowski said in an interview with the PAP
newswire that an expected slowdown in economic growth means the
central bank can’t raise rates “too far.”  “To reduce inflation to the desired level in the medium
term, we want to have as many interest rate increases as needed
so there are not too many,” Belka said in the interview
published today. “We do not raise rates ‘just in case.’ We
raise rates only when it is inevitable.”  The central bank unexpectedly raised its seven-day rate by
a quarter-point to 4.25 percent on May 11, the third increase
since January. Policy makers boosted borrowing costs because the
benchmark remained below the pace of consumer-price growth as
they sought to preempt pressure for higher wages, according to
minutes from the meeting published today.  Poland ’s inflation rate rose to a 2 1/2-year high of 4.5
percent last month and has remained above the bank’s 2.5 percent
target for seven months. Annual wage growth accelerated in April
to 5.9 percent, the fastest in 16 months as workers demanded pay
increases.  ‘Stabilized’ Rates  While inflation is accelerating, economic growth is
expected to slow in 2012 after growing between 3.8 percent and 4
percent this year, Bratkowski told PAP. This means the current
rate-increase cycle won’t be “typical,” the Monetary Policy
Council member said.  “We would expect the next rate increase in July and then
stabilization of the inflation rate should support a longer
period of stabilized interest rates and change in the rhetoric
of the MPC,” Warsaw-based BRE Bank said in its daily comment.  Core inflation  isn’t high, Belka said. The figure, which
excludes volatile food and fuel prices, rose to 2 percent in
April, from 1.2 percent in November. Central banks around the
world are struggling to contain inflation fueled by rising food
and energy prices.  “One may also say that the inflationary impulse is running
out of steam,” Belka said in the interview.  Forward-rate agreements used to lock in interest costs in
six months show investors expect rate increases of about half a
percentage point in that period, based on the difference between
the contracts and the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate
against which they are settled.  Buying Zloty  Belka also said the  Finance Ministry ’s sale of euros on the
market “isn’t an action to substitute for rate increases.” The
ministry and central bank on April 21 announced an agreement to
sell euros to support the zloty.  “The ministry’s decision has limited the scale of
speculation with the zloty on the  currency market ,” Belka said.  The zloty has advanced 1.3 percent against the euro since
the government announcement as the Czech koruna weakened 1.1
percent and the  Hungarian forint  declined 1.4 percent. The
Polish currency eased less than 0.1 percent to 3.9201 per euro
as of 4:23 p.m. in Warsaw.  The Finance Ministry has been selling euros “regularly”
since the announcement and will continue doing so
“consistently,” Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  told
reporters in Katowice, Poland, on May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  