-- 
Biden-Led Debt-Cutting Group Is Said to Agree on $200 Billion in Savings

-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 
2011-05-19T13:19:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/biden-led-bipartisan-debt-cutting-group-agrees-on-200-billion-in-savings.html
A bipartisan group of six Senate and
House lawmakers, led by Vice President  Joe Biden , has found
common ground on at least $200 billion in cuts by focusing on
mandatory federal spending, such as agriculture subsidies,
outside of politically sensitive entitlement programs like
Medicare, according to people close to the negotiations.  The negotiators are moving toward a package of immediate
spending cuts and deficit-cutting benchmarks -- intended to
reassure U.S. investors and the  bond market  -- as hopes faded
this week for a grand bargain sought by a separate group of six
senators to reduce the nation’s debt through revisions in
entitlement programs and the  tax code .  “You need to walk before you run,” said Maryland
Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top Democrat on the House
Budget Committee and a member of Biden’s group, which reconvenes
next week. “We have not engaged on the clearly politically
nuclear issues yet.”  The narrower focus of the Biden talks stands in contrast to
the work done by the so-called Gang of Six, led by Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and  Saxby Chambliss  of  Georgia , that hit an
impasse as it sought an agreement to reach $4 trillion in debt
reduction over 10 years by trimming defense spending and
entitlement-program benefits and raising revenue by closing tax
loopholes.  ‘Small-Ball’  Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , the chamber’s second-ranking
Republican and a participant in the Biden talks, told  Fox News 
on May 15 that the items his group is focused on are “small-
ball compared to the overall job that we’re going to have to
do.” There is probably $2 trillion in savings “we’ve got to
achieve in order to really get a handle on our out-of-control
spending,” he said.  The $200 billion wouldn’t satisfy Republican demands for
cuts equal to any increase in the U.S. debt ceiling and are a
starting point for future negotiations, according to the people
involved, who declined to be identified because they aren’t
authorized to discuss specifics publicly.  Biden’s group is seeking to broker a bipartisan package
that could satisfy Republicans and some Democrats, such as
Senator  Joe Manchin  of West  Virginia , who are insisting on
spending cuts in exchange for their votes to increase the
nation’s $14.3 trillion debt limit later this year.  “The center of gravity has shifted now to Vice President
Biden’s negotiations,” said Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican.  ‘At the Table’  “The president’s at the table through the vice president’s
group,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican. “That’s hopefully going to lead to something that
will get a presidential signature and actually have an impact on
the problem.”  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, said May 17
that he is boycotting future Gang of Six meetings after clashing
with Democrats over the scope of Medicare cuts. The breakdown of
those talks is the second high-profile bipartisan attempt at
taming the nation’s long-term debt to founder in the past
several months.  In a Washington Post opinion  article  today, Coburn said he
will present his own plan in the coming weeks “that puts
everything on the table” and cuts $9 trillion over a decade. He
said the full Senate should have an open debate on debt-
reduction measures and not rely on the Gang of Six.  “The lack of leadership and initiative in the Senate is
appalling,” Coburn wrote, blaming Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
 Nevada  for “failing to direct attention to the central
challenges of our time.”  President’s Commission  In December, the leaders of the president’s bipartisan
fiscal commission failed to gather enough votes to pass its $3.8
trillion plan as members from both parties opposed its mix of
tax increases and spending cuts in programs such as Social
Security and Medicare.  Senator  Mike Crapo , an Idaho Republican and member of the
Gang of Six, said it’s unlikely that his group, which has been
deliberating for most of this year using the fiscal commission’s
work as its model, can make progress without Coburn’s
participation. “I don’t think we can move forward as a group of
five,” he said.  The impasse has experts predicting that instead of the
grand bargain some had hoped for, lawmakers and the White House
are  prepared  to come together on a debt down payment, said Marc
Goldwein, who was associate director of the president’s fiscal
commission.  Sooner or Later  “We’re going to have to find that $4 trillion sooner or
later. The question is if we do it all at once or if we do it in
pieces,” said Goldwein, now policy director at the  Committee
for a Responsible Federal Budget , a Washington-based education
and policy group focused on budget issues. “If we could get a
serious down payment and some debt targets with triggers, that
would do a lot to reassure the markets that we’re serious about
bringing that debt under control.”  A person familiar with the Biden talks said the group has
identified cuts to programs, including  farm subsidies , as well
as savings by adjusting premiums paid by some defined-benefit
plan sponsors to the  Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp .  Still, there’s a real risk the Biden group will hit the
same speed bumps as the Senate-only working group. Coburn was
pushing for cuts to Medicare, the government health-care program
for Americans 65 and older, that would have gone beyond what
leaders of Obama’s debt-cutting commission proposed last year,
according to people familiar with the talks.  Entitlement Cuts  While the Biden negotiations thus far have avoided the
politically sensitive issues of Social Security and Medicare,
the person said Republicans intend to push the administration
for concessions on cuts to entitlement programs in future
meetings.  On May 17, Cantor previewed his demands on CNBC, saying
that in next week’s meetings of the Biden group, he is hoping
that  Van Hollen  “perhaps may present an actual reform plan,
something that’s been lacking.”  Despite Coburn’s departure, some members of the Gang of Six
are less pessimistic about their prospects for an accord over
the coming months.  Warner, the Democratic leader of the group, said before
another meeting yesterday that the talks will go on because it’s
“too important” to let slip an opportunity for a proposal
lawmakers in both parties agree to.  “We are still at it, and we’ve made enormous progress,”
he told reporters.  The group’s impasse underscores the difficult path to
finding a bipartisan approach to reducing the debt, said Senator
Barbara Mikulski, a Maryland Democrat.  “The debt ceiling is as hard to break as the glass
ceiling,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  