-- 
Bin Laden Praised Arab Revolts in Tape, Predicted More ‘Winds of Change’

-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 
2011-05-19T12:27:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/bin-laden-praised-arab-revolts-predicted-more-winds-of-change-in-audio.html
Osama bin Laden  praised the pro-
democracy protests in Egypt and  Tunisia  in a recording released
by al-Qaeda after he was killed by U.S. Navy SEALs, according to
excerpts of the audio message.  Bin Laden  described as a “revolution of destiny” the
Egyptian demonstrations that forced President  Hosni Mubarak  to
step down. The excerpts were posted on the websites of news
organizations including the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper.  “With the fall of the tyrant, humiliation, submission,
fear and apprehension also fell and freedom, dignity and courage
were revived,” bin Laden said. “Then the winds of change blew
in search of liberation and Tunisia took the initiative,” he
added. “I think that the winds of change will blow across all
the Muslim world, God willing.”  Al Arabiya  television cited al-Qaeda as saying the
recording was made a week before bin Laden’s May 2 death. It was
released yesterday on websites used by Islamic militants, Al
Arabiya said. The station said the entire recording was almost
13 minutes long.  Bin Laden was killed in a house in Abbottabad, 30 miles (50
kilometers) north of the Pakistani capital, Islamabad.  While bin Laden tapes have been an al-Qaeda tool for
recruiting and inspiring militants, his death is unlikely to
slow those efforts, according to a report by analyst Carl
Ungerer of the Australian Strategic Policy Institute.  His study, based on prison interviews with more than 30
convicted jihadists in  Indonesia , concluded that militant
violence is likely to shift to more and smaller terrorist plots
in coming years.  Returning to Movement  The change, already under way, may continue as a hard core
of convicted militants returns to the movement following their
expected releases from prison over the next 18 months, Ungerer
said in an interview with  Australia ’s ABC television.  The Yemeni-American militant cleric Anwar al-Awlaki is the
world’s main Islamic-militant security threat because he can
recruit directly in English to persuade a broader, more
disparate group of people to operate on their own, rather than
in the centralized organization built by bin Laden and largely
dismantled since 2001, Ungerer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Dubai at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 