-- 
Borders Seeks to End Agreement With Seattle’s Best Coffee

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-19T17:25:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/borders-seeks-to-end-agreement-with-seattle-s-best-coffee.html
Borders Group Inc. (BGP) , the bookstore
chain operating in bankruptcy, seeks to end a licensing
agreement with Starbucks Corp. unit Seattle’s Best Coffee LLC.  Borders asked in court papers filed in Manhattan court
yesterday that the request be filed under seal, “to protect the
confidentiality of the sensitive commercial information
contained therein.” Seattle’s Best had cafes in 225 of Borders’
stores that have closed in bankruptcy, according to a regulatory
filing from Starbucks for its quarter ended April 3.  “This change will allow Borders to operate its own Café
program, enabling us to reduce the licensing fees we pay,
generate significant cost savings, and boost cafe
profitability,” Borders spokeswoman Stef Goodsell said in an e-
mailed statement. The change will also let Borders “tailor menu
items” and its cafes based on customer preferences, she said.  According to a summary of Border’s largest creditors,
 Seattle ’s Best Coffee is owed about $5 million in trade debt.  In a December 2010 teleconference, Borders said it would
transform its stores with changes including more eReaders,
improved children’s education sections and partnerships with
Starbucks and a division of Seattle’s Best Coffee that would
expand its “café experience.”  Borders, the second-largest book chain after  Barnes & Noble
Inc. (BKS) , filed for bankruptcy in February and is closing about 225
stores, a third of its total. The company’s most recent
financial report filed before today with the  bankruptcy court 
showed a loss of $479.9 million for the year ended Jan. 29, on
revenue of $1.67 billion.  The case is In re Borders Group Inc., 11-10614,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 