-- 
Both Parties Get It Wrong on Big Oil Tax Breaks: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-05-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/both-parties-wrong-on-tax-breaks-for-big-oil-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Senate Democrats  want to eliminate a
tax break for the five biggest multinational oil companies.
Republicans oppose the idea on the grounds that rescinding a tax
break qualifies as a tax increase.  Both parties are missing the boat. By confining their
disagreement to select deductions for a few oil producers,
lawmakers are squandering an opportunity to examine all forms of
tax breaks and make a real dent in the deficit.  The  tax deduction  in question was enacted in 2004 and
applies to all domestic manufacturers, not just oil and gas
companies. It was designed to increase competitiveness in the
face of the U.S.’s 35 percent corporate tax rate, among the
highest in the developed world.  Democrats settled on the five biggest oil producers as
their first target. These companies just happened to earn a
combined $36 billion in the first quarter.  The Senate Finance Committee summoned the chief executive
officers of  Exxon Mobil , Chevron, ConocoPhillips, Royal Dutch
Shell and  BP Plc (BP/)  to  Washington  last week to discuss shared
sacrifice. At a time when consumers are struggling to fill the
tank with $4-a-gallon  gas , senators wanted to know if Big Oil
could relinquish a benefit that would save the government $21
billion over 10 years.  Of course, that saving, if it ends up being saved, is a
drop in the bucket when the U.S.  budget deficit  will top $1
trillion in 2011 for the third consecutive year.  Real Money  Eliminating the special exemptions that have been written
into the  tax code  over the years would be one of the simplest
and most fruitful ways to raise federal revenue. Tax policy
experts put the annual cost of these so-called  tax expenditures 
at roughly $1 trillion. That’s real money.  Unless you believe this loss of revenue leads to smaller
government, one person’s tax break is another person’s tax
increase. How did the anti-tax GOP justify these  tax
expenditures  in the first place?  The argument against tax breaks for  oil companies  is clear-
cut.  “They make the economy less, not more, efficient and do
nothing to reduce prices at the pump,” said Jerry Taylor, a
senior fellow at the libertarian  Cato Institute  in Washington.  Any preferred tax treatment attracts private investment in
search of higher artificial profits.  If lawmakers are serious about  deficit reduction , they
should look at all tax breaks for all industries and all
companies, not just those for five profitable oil and gas
producers.  Tax Neutrality  Tax neutrality should be the goal: a tax system that
encourages the private investment on its own merit, not for tax
reasons. Tax neutrality would broaden the tax base and allow the
government to lower income tax rates on individuals and
corporations.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO James Mulva was right when he said the
Senate proposal to rescind tax breaks on only five select
companies was “un-American.” (It was equally un-American to
enact them.) Exxon Mobil chief Rex Tillerson called it
“discriminatory” and “punitive.”  “Everything for everybody everywhere ought to be on the
table,” Tillerson told the Senate Finance Committee last week.  To her credit, Republican Senator  Olympia Snowe  of  Maine 
said all subsidies and tax incentives, many of which are on
“cruise control,” should be re-examined.  The last time Congress took a stab at reducing corporate
welfare was in 1986.  Hypocrisy Personified  Snowe’s colleagues were more interested in scoring points
and playing “gotcha.” Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York,
used language like “gouged” at the pump to strengthen his
argument for targeting Big Oil.  Every time Congress wants to raise the  tax rate  paid by his
Wall Street donors, er, constituents, Schumer argues that any
change has to be all-inclusive.  Members of the Senate Finance Committee tried to get the
oil executives to admit they don’t need incentives, at least in
the sense most of us think of need. Most successful companies
don’t need them. The ones that do probably shouldn’t be in
business.  The argument for government-subsidized investment goes
something like this. Government needs to intervene at times to
stabilize the economy; to correct for market failures such as
externalities, where economic transactions have an adverse
effect on third parties; and to encourage desirable behavior,
such as  home ownership .  In addition, certain investments may have a hurdle rate
before they turn a profit. Without government assistance, no
company could survive long enough to see the investment bear
fruit.  Ethanol Boondoggle  If you buy that logic, it means some bureaucrat or
committee determines the allocation of capital, often with
unintended consequences.  Ethanol subsidies, for example, were supposed to give us
cleaner air and energy independence. Instead they became a
boondoggle for farmers and ethanol producers, raised the price
of corn-based products and increased gasoline consumption,
according to a  study  by the Government Accountability Office.  Or consider the fallout from decades of promoting
affordable housing with subsidies and mortgage-interest
deductions, which are the third-largest category of  tax
expenditure , according to Congress’ Joint Committee on Taxation.
A lot of folks bought homes they couldn’t afford that are now in
 foreclosure . Housing finance agencies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac 
are wards of the state.  Home prices  are still falling five years
past the peak. The residential real estate market is a shambles.  Earth to Congress  One group at the Senate Finance Committee hearing seemed to
get the message. Shell’s Odum explained it to the senators.  If the goal is to reduce the deficit, the solution is more
oil and gas production, more revenue for the federal government,
more jobs for the  U.S. economy , Odum said.  It’s not clear any of the questioners were listening.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Mary Duenwald   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  