-- 
Brazil to Study Financial System Risks After Panamericano Fraud

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-19T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/brazil-to-study-financial-system-risks-after-panamericano-fraud.html
Brazil  is creating a committee to
evaluate risks to the financial system after last year’s fraud
probe of Banco Panamericano SA raised investor concern about the
strength of the country’s mid-size lenders.  Bank director Anthero Meirelles yesterday said the creation
of the committee, which will have an advisory role, wasn’t in
response to the probe of Panamericano or the central bank’s
takeover last month of Banco Morada SA. The committee, which
will meet every two months, will seek to improve monitoring of
credit conditions as Brazil adopts stricter global banking
standards, he said. Brazilian banks are “extremely solid,”
with capital levels higher than many developed nations,
Meirelles added.  Sao Paulo-based Panamericano was bailed out by Brazil’s
deposit guarantee fund in November and federal police began
investigating executives at the bank for accounting fraud from
the sale of its loan portfolios. On April 28, the Brasilia-based
central bank took control of Morada because the Rio de Janeiro-
based lender didn’t comply with  capital requirements  or provide
viable recovery plan to stay solvent.  Bank lending in March expanded at the second-slowest pace
in 13 months, rising 1 percent to 1.75 trillion reais ($1.09
trillion) from a month earlier and 20.7 percent from March 2010.
The central bank is scheduled to publish its April lending
report May 30.  ‘Constant Concern’  Brazil’s central bank raised  interest rates  three times
this year and increased bank reserve and capital requirements to
slow inflation and prevent a credit bubble.  “The creation of the committee transcends individual
events,” Luiz Pereira da Silva, a central bank director who
will oversee the group along with Meirelles, told reporters in
Brasilia. “The way credit influences the performance of the
economy is certainly a constant concern for the board.”  Brazil’s larger banks “severely” reduced purchases of
loan portfolios from smaller lenders since the Panamericano
probe, Rafael Guedes, managing director of the Brazilian unit of
 Fitch Ratings , said in a May 11 interview. These transactions
were an “important” source of funding for smaller banks, he
said.  Morada and Panamericano both had less than $2 billion in
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  