-- 
Gilts Fall as Equities Gain, U.K. Retail Sales Beat Forecasts

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/british-pound-weakens-versus-euro-on-april-decline-in-consumer-confidence.html
Gilts fell as equities rose and a
report showed U.K. retail sales increased more than economists
forecast in April, giving the Bank of England more scope to
raise  interest rates  to damp inflation.  The pound fluctuated between gains and losses against the
euro and the dollar after data showed retail sales climbed 1.1
percent from March, when they rose a revised 0.3 percent. The
median forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was
for a 0.8 percent increase. The pound fell earlier after an
index of consumer sentiment declined. The U.K. sold bonds
maturing in 2014.  “The retail sales figures provided a glimmer of light for
the U.K. household sector so that may have put some pressure on
gilts,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA
Capital Ltd. in Edinburgh. “We’re seeing a bit of an
improvement in risk appetite as well, equities are up and that’s
pushed core sovereign bonds down, consequently gilts have been
dragged lower.”  The 10-year gilt yield rose two basis points to 3.40
percent as of 4:35 p.m. in  London . Two-year yields were little
changed at 1.02 percent.  Short-sterling futures fell after the retail sales data.
The implied yield on the contract expiring in June 2012 rose one
basis point to 1.47 percent, indicating investors added to bets
that central bank interest rates will rise.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.6 percent and the U.K.
FTSE 100 rose 0.5 percent.  ‘Reasonable Result’  The U.K. debt management office sold 5 billion pounds of
2.25 percent bonds maturing in 2014 today. Investors bid for
1.67 times the securities on offer, compared with 1.97 times at
the last sale of the securities in July 2009. The average yield
at the sale was 1.456 percent, down from 3.224 percent at the
previous auction.  “Given all of the uncertainties in the market at the
moment, it’s a reasonable result,” said  Charles Diebel , head of
market strategy at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London.  Sterling was little changed at $1.6169, rebounding from a
0.2 percent decline earlier. The British currency traded at
88.19 pence per euro. It reached 88.42 pence yesterday, the
weakest since May 6. The pound strengthened 0.2 percent to
132.26 yen.  “The pound was on the back foot after the consumer
confidence data this morning and we needed a much bigger retail
sales number to give it a greater shot in the arm,” said Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and institutional
treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London.  Money Markets  The pound depreciated against the yen, dollar and euro
yesterday as minutes from the  Bank of England ’s May 5 meeting
showed the majority of policy makers warned against raising
borrowing costs and a report revealed unemployment claims rose.  Money markets now price in a 25 basis-point increase in the
key rate in January, according to sterling overnight interbank
average forwards, Tullett Prebon Plc data show. In February,
investors were betting on a rate rise as soon as this month.  U.K. annual inflation jumped to 4.5 percent in April, more
than twice the Bank of England’s target.  The central bank’s Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  said today
that allowing a “temporary” period of above-target inflation
is consistent with the bank’s mandate and is necessary to
support the economic recovery.  “The Monetary Policy Committee’s chosen approach has been
to accept a temporary period of above-target inflation, rather
than seeking to hold inflation as close to the 2 percent target
as possible at all times,” Bean said in a speech today in
 Belfast ,  Northern Ireland .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  