-- 
Brown California Budget May Be Credit ‘Crossroad,’ S&P Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   M a r o i s
-- 
2011-05-19T22:42:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/brown-s-california-budget-may-be-credit-crossroad-s-p.html
California  Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
plan to pay down years of accumulated loans used to paper over
past deficits may represent a “crossroad” for the state’s
credit rating, the lowest in the U.S.,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  The governor’s latest budget revision includes plans to
repay $29 billion of an estimated $35 billion in deficit debt
and loans by 2015. That’s twice as much as estimated in the
current year budget. He said the state’s persistent deficit had
declined to $9.6 billion from $15 billion because of better-
than-expected income tax revenue.  Brown, a 73-year-old Democrat, took office in January on a
pledge to fix the fiscal crisis that has left California with
the lowest credit rating of any state from S&P. The governor
this week revised his budget proposal for the fiscal year that
begins July 1, saying the state’s improving economy would drive
 tax revenue  $6.6 billion higher than forecast through June 2012.  “In the context of a modestly paced economic recovery and
the possibility of serious strain on state cash flow that could
occur early in fiscal 2012, we believe the terms of the final
revised budget could represent an important crossroad for the
state’s rating,” a Standard & Poor’s analyst, Gabriel Petek,
said in a report today.  Voters Decide  Brown’s budget calls for lawmakers to extend $9.1 billion
of expiring taxes and fees, and then asking voters to validate
that decision later. It doesn’t spell out how the state would
erase what is left of the deficit if voters reject the taxes.  The plan involves “much uncertainty” because of Brown’s
insistence that the tax and fee extensions go before voters, the
state Legislative Analyst’s Office, a nonpartisan body, said in
a  report  said today.  Mac Taylor, the state legislative analyst, said Brown’s
budget relies too heavily on passing tax extensions of a 0.25
percentage-point increase in personal income-tax rates, a 1
percentage-point boost in the retail-sales levy and a 0.5
percentage point increase in auto registration fees.  The election is “a big unknown,” Taylor said at a
Sacramento news conference.  Brown has said that if the taxes aren’t renewed, he’d have
to deal with the  budget deficit  through cuts alone. He said this
week that California won’t need to extend the increase in
personal income-tax rates until next year because of the better-
than-expected revenue, Brown said.  Other Options  Taylor said there are other scenarios, including a mix of
smaller budget reductions and scaled-back tax increases.  “You do have a lot of options in how you look at revenue
proposals,” he said.  The state won’t be able to issue short-term notes for  cash
flow  in July or August with that vote pending unless Brown and
lawmakers agree on spending cuts that would be activated if
voters turn down the tax plan, Treasurer Bill Lockyer has said.  The rating company also said the improved revenue may make
Brown’s efforts to win support for those taxes more difficult.
Republican lawmakers, whose votes will be needed to obtain a
two-thirds vote required on the measure, oppose the plan.  “We believe the stronger revenue trends may also have
undercut, to a degree, the political urgency to extend the
temporary tax increases from our perspective,” Petek said. “In
recent weeks, political opposition to the governor’s tax
proposal appears to have coalesced around the idea that
extending the temporary tax increases was less necessary because
tax collections were exceeding those assumed in the January
budget proposal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  