-- 
Stocks Advance: BP, Standard Chartered, Royal Dutch Shell Lead the Gains

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-20T08:27:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/bt-group-mitchells-butlers-sse-u-k-irish-equity-preview.html
U.K. stocks climbed, with the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  heading for its first weekly gain in
three weeks, as investors speculated that the U.S. Federal
Reserve will maintain its stimulus program.  The benchmark FTSE 100 Index advanced 47.28, or 0.8
percent, to 6,003.27 at 9:25 a.m. in London, poised for a weekly
increase of 1.3 percent. The gauge had fallen in the previous
two weeks amid the biggest commodities sell-off since 2008. The
 FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  also increased 0.8 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index rose 0.5 percent.  Fed Bank of Chicago President  Charles Evans  said
improvements in the economy, labor market and the outlook for
inflation aren’t sufficient for the Fed to begin withdrawing its
record monetary stimulus.  “Slow progress in closing resource gaps and a medium-term
outlook for inflation that is too low lead me to conclude that
substantial policy accommodation continues to be appropriate,”
Evans said yesterday.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley said it’s
important for the central bank not to “overreact” to the
recent pickup in inflation by tightening monetary policy.  BP Plc (BP/)  advanced 3.7 percent to 464.4 pence, its biggest
gain in a month, after  Europe ’s second-largest oil company by
revenue was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Investec Plc.  Micro Focus International Plc (MCRO)  surged 6 percent to 392 pence
after the Financial Times reported that Advent International
Corp. has approached the company about a potential takeover.
 Bain Capital  made a separate approach in April, the newspaper
reported. An external spokeswoman for the company wasn’t
immediately able to comment when reached by Bloomberg News.  Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB)  sank 5.5 percent to 318 pence after
posting first-half profit that dropped 29 percent as revenue
declined and the company incurred one-off costs. Net income
declined to 37 million pounds ($60 million) from 52 million
pounds a year earlier, the Birmingham, England-based company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  