-- 
Cadillac’s $70,000 Monster Wagon Leaves Mad Max, Mel in Dust

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/cadillac-s-70-000-monster-wagon-leaves-mad-max-in-dust-jason-h-harper.html
There’s something about the desert
that always makes you feel like you’re crawling along, even in a
556-horsepower monster like the CTS-V Wagon. Even with the
accelerator sunk to the floor, Joshua trees swing slowly by,
supplicating arms outstretched to the gray, turbulent sky.  I’m in the Mojave, outside of  Los Angeles , the two-lane
highway bereft of traffic and the weather threatening lightning
storms. My ride is a Cadillac.  It’s the car I want to be in, a monster of the asphalt,
perfectly suited for chomping through endless miles, a machine
to beat the solitude.  In the history of weird, automotive mash-ups, the CTS-V
wagon is a doozey. Take the old-school family station wagon,
evil it up with a glossy black paint job, man-eating grill and
wicked knifelike taillights, and then stick a supercharged
Corvette engine inside.  The result is a family vehicle with a heavy-metal attitude.  The  Mad Max  movies are scheduled for a reboot, and I hereby
nominate this $64,500 vehicle to have a starring role, replacing
the Ford Falcon Interceptor from the original 1979 film. A
better Road Warrior (preferably without  Mel Gibson  inside), I’ve
never seen. Let the post-apocalyptic motorcycle gangs come: I
can outrun them.  And since the rear hatch gulps 58 cubic feet, I could stuff
enough water, food and survival equipment to last a long time in
a dystopian future.  Dry Lakebed  I’ve come to a massive dry lakebed in the hopes of
executing car-commercial stunts like dusty drifts and figure 8s.
Sadly, it’s closed to the public due to recent rain which has
turned the clay to mud. Instead I just wander, letting the miles
hypnotize me as the 6.2-liter supercharged V-8 rattles in the
hood.  That stupidly big engine churns 551 foot-pounds of torque,
enough to help reach 60 mph in 4.3 seconds. The quarter mile
comes in about 12.6. Not exactly your dad’s wood-paneled station
wagon. The kids at school will not make fun of you for showing
up in this.  The downside is that its thirst would probably leave you
like the doomed, nameless characters in Cormac McCarthy’s “The
Road” -- pushing a shopping cart rather than driving. With an
18 gallon tank and gas mileage of 14 in the city, 19 on the
highway, you’d soon be bone dry, waiting for the vultures to
alight. (Maybe the next Mad Max movie will feature a Prius
instead.)  I motor down a road to a small airport that I find on the
map, and am turned away by a security guard who says it’s a
private government facility. When I ask what kind he frowns at
me. I turn around, scanning the sky for Predator drones, and
park outside a graveyard of rusting aircraft.  Russian Helicopter  The dead machines include an old Russian helicopter,
painted in dull camouflage and missing its rotors, and two
former Pan Am planes, each cut in half, with the company’s
distinctive pale blue stripe running down the side.  Cadillac could easily have gone the way of that famous
brand. It was certainly sliding that way until a design
resurgence pulled it back.  The product behind the reinvention was largely the CTS,
which comes in sedan, coupe and wagon forms. Each is available
in a supercharged “V” model, with prices from mid-$30,000s to
high $70,000s, spanning many needs and desires.  General Motors Co. (GM)  will not sell a lot of the CTS-V wagons,
but you’ve got to love the radical idea of mating a family
vehicle with a powerful sports car. Especially if you’ve got a
kid or two and hate minivans.  Midlife Crisis  The Cadillac wagon can put off a full-blown midlife crisis
for decades, and you’ll never be late to soccer practice.  Or you could opt for the less-mental CTS wagon. Available
in either rear- or all-wheel-drive, it has a V-6 with 270 hp
(enough power for most of us) or 304 hp. It retains the radical
styling, so it’s still an anti-minivan, but gets up to 27 mpg
highway. Pricing starts at just over $39,000.  On my lonely road, I perform a solitary burnout, the smoke
drifting into the sky. I can see how one might get drunk with
power in this zany station wagon. Mad Max -- and Mel -- have
nothing on me, baby.  The 2011 Cadillac CTS-V Wagon at a Glance  Engine: 6.2-liter supercharged V-8 with 556 horsepower and  551 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual or six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.3 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 14 city, 19 highway (manual); 12,  18 (automatic).  Price as tested: $70,790.  Best features: Lots of space, lots of attitude, lots of  power.  Worst feature: Lots and lots of gas.  Target buyer: The family man who hates minivans.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 