-- 
Canada’s Dollar Gains Before Report Forecast to Show Inflation Increased

-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 
2011-05-19T21:36:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/canada-s-dollar-gains-for-a-third-day-as-investor-risk-aversion-declines.html
Canada ’s dollar rose before a report
tomorrow that’s forecast to show inflation accelerated last
month amid a gain in equities and as the  U.S. dollar  fell
against most of its major counterparts.  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, reversed an
earlier decline. It gained 0.1 percent this week versus the
greenback, which underperformed all but two of its 16 most
traded counterparts.  “It’s more of a grind lower in the U.S. dollar” that’s
responsible for the rise in the Canadian currency, said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada  in Toronto.  The Canadian currency rose 0.3 percent to 96.76 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, from 97.01 yesterday. The
currency sank to 97.94 two days ago, the weakest level since
March. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0335 U.S. cents.  The Canadian dollar may get an exaggerated boost from the
government’s consumer-price report because the market hasn’t
taken inflation fully into account, Bank of America Corp. said.  A comment from Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  this
week that inflation remains subdued “may have set up the
market” for a larger response to tomorrow’s consumer price
index, Bank of America Merrill Lynch foreign-exchange
strategists including John Shin in  New York  wrote in a note to
clients today. The bank has taken a “very short-term,
temporary” bullish position in the Canadian dollar versus the
greenback, according to Shin.  ‘Outsized Impact’  “The CPI data could wind up having an outsized impact on
the Canadian dollar Friday morning,” Shin wrote. The report
“will likely provide support for our Canadian dollar views,
both in the short and long term,” according to Shin.  The bank recommended three days ago buying the Canadian
dollar at 97.40 cents against the U.S. dollar, targeting 95.80
cents and adding a stop-loss order at 98.05. By the end of the
year, the loonie will depreciate to C$1.03 versus the greenback
as crude oil falls to $88 a barrel on tepid U.S. growth, and the
currency will weaken to C$1.07 by the close of 2012, according
to Shin.  Canada’s consumer price index increased 3.4 percent in
April from a year earlier after a gain of 3.3 percent in the
previous month, according to the median forecast of 27
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s report
from  Statistics Canada . Bank of America is predicting a 3.6
percent advance.  Futures for crude oil, Canada’s largest export, dropped 1.6
percent to $98.51 a barrel after earlier climbing 0.7 percent.
Copper and gold also dropped. Canada gets about half its export
revenue from raw materials.  Crude tumbled to as low as $95.02
this week.  Interest-Rate Outlook  Carney said there’s less need to signal changes in  interest
rates  than last year, when he gave advance notice of his
intention to raise borrowing costs, according to CIBC World
Markets chief economist  Avery Shenfeld .  “He doesn’t see the need to be that specific in general at
policy turns,” Shenfeld said today in an e-mail, citing
comments he said Carney made at a fundraising dinner last night.
Shenfeld added that Carney “hopes that in looking at the same
data and Bank’s analysis, markets will generally converge in
expectations that are in line with where rates are headed.”  Shenfeld, who is based in Toronto, sent a later e-mail
asking people not to cite his earlier message because it was an
“off-the-record” event.  Government bonds  rose, pushing yields on 10-year notes down
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.21 percent. The
price of the 3.25 percent security due in June 2021 increased 13
cents to C$100.38.  Canada will auction C$3 billion ($3.1 billion) of three-
year notes on May 25, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. The 2.25 percent securities mature in August
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax, Nova Scotia, at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  