-- 
Canada Pension Has 12% Return Led by Stocks, Private Equity

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-05-19T19:17:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/canada-pension-has-12-return-led-by-stocks-private-equity-1-.html
The Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, the country’s second-biggest public pension manager,
posted a return of 12 percent in the latest fiscal year led by a
rise in stocks and private-equity investments.  Investment income for the year ended March 31 was C$15.5
billion ($16 billion), the Toronto-based  fund manager  said today
in a statement. Assets rose to C$148.2 billion from C$127.6
billion a year earlier.  “It was a very strong year across all of our asset classes
and investment programs,” Chief Executive Officer David Denison
said today in a telephone interview. “We’re not counting on
that every year, but when it all comes to a head simultaneously
that’s obviously a terrific end result.”  Canada Pension’s results beat the 11 percent average return
of the country’s pension funds over 12 months as Canadian stocks
surged, according to an April 20 report by RBC Dexia’s
investment services unit. The Canadian benchmark Standard &
Poor’s/TSX Composite Index rose 16 percent in the period.  The fund includes investment earnings and contributions not
needed to pay current pensions. Contributions in fiscal 2011
amounted to C$5.4 billion.  Canada  Pension had a five-year annualized return of 3.3
percent as of the end of March. For the 10-year period, the fund
had an annualized return of 5.9 percent. In fiscal 2010, Canada
Pension had a 15 percent return.  Private Equity Soars  Foreign assets represented about 52 percent of its
investment portfolio, with the rest held in Canada, the pension
fund said. Equities represented about 54 percent of its
holdings, compared with 30 percent for bonds, money-market
securities and other debt, and about 16 percent held in real
estate, infrastructure and inflation-linked bonds.  Canadian stocks, the fund’s best-performing asset, posted a
20 percent return for fiscal 2011, down from 44 percent a year
earlier. Canadian private equities rose about 17 percent,
compared with 13 percent a year earlier.  Private-equity investments abroad were among the best
assets in the year, with holdings in developed markets
increasing more than 19 percent and those in emerging markets
posting a 17 percent return. Both investments reversed declines
from a year earlier.  “We still think that equity markets are going to
outperform fixed income” over the next five years, Denison
said.  Real Estate  Real estate investments rose 14 percent in the year, while
infrastructure investments increased 13 percent. Bonds and
money-market securities had a 4.7 percent return, down from 6.1
percent in 2010, while foreign sovereign bonds rose 3 percent,
up from 2.1 percent.  Canada Pension will remain “a little cautious” on fixed
income, preferring investments in real estate and
infrastructure, Denison said.  “Real estate still has some recovery to do in developed
markets, including in the U.S., continental  Europe  and the U.K.,
so we think that’s a good asset for returns,” Denison said.  Canada Pension expects to be more of a seller than a buyer
of private companies and debt in the next year, as competition
heats up for assets and prices rise.  ‘We’re a Seller’  “Corporate buyers are back because they have cash on their
balance sheets, or because they have stock prices that have
recovered and they’re willing to use their equity to be
purchasers,” Mark Wiseman, executive vice president of
investments, said in a briefing today. “In those periods of
time, we’re a seller.”  Denison said Canada Pension won’t sell real estate or
infrastructure assets, though.  “We’re going to hold those for 20, 30 years,” he said.  One investment Canada Pension is pursuing is  TMX Group
Inc. (X) , the owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange. Canada Pension is
among a group of Canadian banks and pension funds that made a
C$3.6 billion counteroffer to TMX on May 13, trumping a bid by
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  for the Toronto-based exchange
owner.  “We’re doing this primarily as an investment opportunity,
and if we didn’t believe it had investment merits we would not
be doing this,” Denison said. “We do think it provides more
efficiency to capital markets in Canada and we do care about
that because we’re a major participant in those capital
markets.”  Canada Pension covers every Canadian province except
 Quebec . Caisse de Depot et Placement du Quebec, Canada’s largest
pension fund, said Feb. 25 it posted a 14 percent return on
investments in 2010.  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , the third-
biggest retirement-fund manager, also posted a 14 percent return
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  