-- 
Carlyle Said to Raise $950 Million for South America Fund

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-05-19T21:18:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/carlyle-said-to-raise-950-million-for-first-south-america-buyout-fund.html
Carlyle Group  is set to raise $950
million for investments in South America as the U.S. buyout firm
assembles its first private-equity fund dedicated to the region,
a person with direct knowledge of the plan said.  Carlyle has lined up about $730 million for the fund from
institutional investors, according to the person, who wasn’t
authorized to comment publicly. State-controlled lender  Banco do
Brasil SA (BBAS3)  is committing about $220 million to a related
partnership that will target investments in  Brazil , where
Carlyle’s nine-member South America team is based, two people
familiar with the venture said.  Carlyle and the bank formed the fund back in July, the
Folha de S. Paulo newspaper  reported  at the time.  Chris Ullman ,
a spokesman for Washington-based Carlyle, the second-largest
U.S. buyout firm by assets under management, declined to
comment. An official at Banco do Brasil declined to comment on
Carlyle’s fund-raising.  Managers in the U.S. are turning to emerging markets to
make up for lackluster deal-making and the worst fund-raising
environment since 2003 at home. The firms are capitalizing on
growing populations, increasing disposable income for consumer
products and the need for infrastructure development.  Carlyle and  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP) ,  Peru ’s largest financial
services company, have formed a joint venture to scout for
investments in that country’s mining, infrastructure, energy and
consumer industries.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s largest
private-equity manager, last year bought a 40 percent stake in
Patria, a Brazilian private-equity firm.  Brazil M&A Boom  Brazil has recorded the largest value and number of mergers
and acquisitions in at least 12 years, driven by economic growth
of 7.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Latin
America’s biggest economy had 482 deals in 2010, valued at
$146.4 billion.  Private-equity firms raised $8.1 billion for investment
across Latin America in 2010, according to Latin America Venture
Capital Association. The amount was more than double that raised
in 2009, according to LAVCA, as the association is known.  Carlyle, which began marketing its  South America  fund in
2009, had originally set a target of raising $500 million,
according to the person familiar with its plans. Led by Fernando Borges, the Brazil-based team has already committed or deployed
about $950 million in three deals, in part by drawing on other
Carlyle pools of capital, the person said.  Carlyle  hired Borges  in early 2008 to build the Brazil
office that now includes senior dealmakers Juan Carlos Felix, a
former McKinsey & Co.  partner , and Fernando Pinto, a former
 investment officer  at Capital International Research Inc. and
investment banker at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  The team’s first investment was in CVC Brasil Operadora &
Agencia de Viagens SA, the largest tour operator in  Latin
America , in December 2009. A deal for a controlling stake in
Brazilian health-insurance brokerage Grupo Qualicorp valued at
$1.2 billion followed last July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  