-- 
Carney Sees Less Need to Signal Bank of Canada Rate Changes Than in 2010

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-05-19T17:58:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/carney-sees-less-of-a-need-to-signal-bank-of-canada-rate-moves-than-in-10.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said there is less need to signal changes in  interest rates  than
last year, when he gave advance notice of his intention to raise
borrowing costs, according to CIBC World Markets chief economist
 Avery Shenfeld .  “He doesn’t see the need to be that specific in general at
policy turns,” Shenfeld said today in an e-mail, citing
comments he said Carney made at a fundraising dinner last night.
Shenfeld added that Carney “hopes that in looking at the same
data and Bank’s analysis, markets will generally converge in
expectations that are in line with where rates are headed.”  Shenfeld sent a later e-mail asking people not to cite his
earlier message because it was an “off the record” event.  Bank of  Canada  spokesman  Jeremy Harrison  said in a
telephone interview today that he wouldn’t “substantiate”
Shenfeld’s account of Carney’s remarks at the event in Toronto
because it was off the record.  Later he said that “to encourage a frank and open exchange
of views, these events are often closed to the media. However,
it is important to note that any comments by Bank officials on
these occasions will reflect views that have already been
communicated publicly.”  “When the Bank has new or updated views on the economy or
its monetary policy, it always provides this information
publicly, in an open and transparent manner,” Harrison said.  ‘Carefully Considered’  Carney reiterated in a May 16 Ottawa speech that future
rate increases would be “carefully considered” after raising
them three times last year from a record low. Carney began
increasing rates last June before the bank’s conditional
commitment to keep them unchanged had ended. The bank had given
investors a clear signal that rates would increase, saying six
weeks earlier it was “appropriate to begin to lessen the degree
of monetary stimulus.”  Investors are “waiting for a hint from the bank saying
that we’re ready to hike,” said Charles St-Arnaud, Canadian
economist and foreign exchange strategist at Nomura Securities
International in  New York , who has also worked at the Canada’s
finance department and central bank. “It seems that Mark Carney
is signaling that he won’t give any signal, that people should
be looking at the data and the bank’s analysis to make their
expectations.”  Shenfeld’s e-mail also said that Carney said he is
“concerned that the  bond market  isn’t sending America the
signal that it needs to act” on its budget shortfall. That is
“due in part to huge central bank holdings of Treasuries,” the
e-mail said. Carney said it will be a long time before there is
a meaningful tightening in monetary policy in the U.S., and also
said he doesn’t see the U.S. addressing its fiscal issues until
after 2012, the e-mail said.  Carney was at the United Jewish Appeal Federation of
Greater Toronto last night, spokeswoman Leigh Brown wrote in an
e-mailed message.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 