-- 
Chekhov’s Orchard Is Classy Gray; Albee Seeks Balance: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-05-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/chekhov-s-orchard-is-classy-gray-albee-pursues-balance-warwick-thompson.html
There’s an atmospheric decaying
wooden set, beautiful lighting, a fine ensemble of actors and a
sense of seen-it-before in the new staging of “The Cherry
Orchard” at the  National Theatre  in London.  Chekhov’s 1904 play deals with Ranyevskaya (Zoe Wanamaker),
a bankrupt landowner who refuses to believe that her beloved
estate and cherry orchard are about to be lost.  It’s also about beginnings: Complicated new possibilities
are represented by the wealthy peasant-turned-capitalist
Lopakhin, and the idealistic student Trofimov.  You wouldn’t necessarily guess that struggle from  Howard
Davies ’s off-the-peg, period-costume production. It’s clear and
finely paced. With its warm side lighting, melancholy music and
air of decay, it also offers the standard-issue nostalgic
atmosphere that’s often slathered over Chekhov. Sam Mendes did a
similar thing a couple of years ago in his staging at the Old
Vic.  Sepia tints are lovely. Wouldn’t it be more exciting to see
Chekhov in color?  Andrew Upton’s new performing version of the play injects a
kind of modernity. There are insults like “Boy, you are pushing
it, girlie,” and “You whiffy crap artist!,” and sentences
trail off into inarticulate hesitations. Sometimes it creates
naturalistic speech rhythms, and sometimes it jars.  With all that, there’s still plenty to savor. Bunny
Christie’s handsome sliding set presents the interior and
exterior of a stately, run-down wooden mansion. Clumps of grass
grow at the edges, and a rusty telegraph pole looms.  Girlish Zoe  Wanamaker is an enjoyably heart-on-sleeve Ranyevskaya,
skipping girlishly one moment, in tears the next. She beats
Trofimov’s chest with her fists and then, a beat later, hugs him
tenderly. Conleth Hill explores the vulnerability as well as the
bluster in the self-made Lopakhin. His sudden outbursts suggest
the pent-up frustration of a boy railing at injustice.  Mark Bonnar is fiery, if one-note, as naive speechifying
Trofimov. The rest of the cast makes a good ensemble.  Still, I couldn’t avoid the feeling that the characters
know they’re living in prerevolutionary  Russia . How much more
dynamic it could be if we felt they were actually in their own
present, with everything still to play for. Rating: **.  Frightened Guests  There’s another trip into the past at the  Almeida Theatre ,
where a superb cast stars in Edward Albee’s 1966 play “A
Delicate Balance,” finely directed by James Macdonald.  Agnes and Tobias (Penelope Wilton and Tim Pigott-Smith)
live an upper-middle-class East Coast life among expensive
sofas, sumptuous rugs and book-lined shelves. (Set by Laura
Hopkins). Their friends Harry and Edna turn up in distress. “We
were scared,” they say, choosing not to reveal any more about
their strange existential crisis. They then mention that they’ll
be moving in, much to Tobias and Agnes’s discomfort.  It’s a slow, stylized piece. Fear hovers amid the luxury.
The cool, hyper-articulate Agnes talks in perfectly modulated
sentences with labyrinthine clauses and sub-clauses. Agnes’s
sister Claire (Imelda Staunton in wonderful form) is a sharp-
tongued drunk who utters brilliantly bitter, comical truths.  The cast couldn’t be better. Wilton conveys tenderness
under a glacial, poised facade, and Pigott-Smith is terrific as
the bumbling, supposedly genial Tobias.  What is the “delicate balance” that must be found? Is it
the playoff between the demands of friendship and self
preservation? Between comfortable social conformity and
individual expression?  If Albee’s meandering play takes a long time -- too long,
at three hours with two intervals -- in serving up such question
marks, it also provides pithy insights along the way. That’s
still not enough to make it a must-see evening.  Rating: **.  “The Cherry Orchard” is in repertory at the National
Theatre as part of the Travelex 12 pound ($19.42) season, and
will be broadcast in movie houses for National Theatre Live on
June 30. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
+44-20-74532-3000.  “A Delicate Balance” is at the Almeida Theatre through
July 2. The principal sponsor is Coutts & Co. Information:
 http://www.almeida.co.uk  or +44-20-7359-4404.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer of the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 