-- 
China’s Zhejiang Plans Punitive Power Prices to Curb Consumer Demand

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T09:24:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/china-s-zhejiang-province-to-impose-punitive-prices-on-heavy-power-users.html
China will impose punitive power
prices on businesses that exceed consumption limits in Zhejiang
province, a manufacturing hub bordering  Shanghai , to curb demand
during an expected electricity supply shortfall this summer.  The provincial government has set power consumption limits
on 44 industries including electricity generation, cement and
dyeing businesses, according to a  statement  on its website
yesterday, which didn’t give a full list.  China faces the worst power shortage in seven years as the
economy grows faster than forecast and some utilities cut
production or shut, hit by rising coal prices and government
caps on tariffs. Zhejiang, on the eastern coast to the south of
Shanghai, is host to companies including automaker Zhejiang
Geely Holding Group Co., owner of Volvo Cars.  “We don’t think it will be much of a problem for us given
that our factories are in Taizhou and Ningbo, where the power
shortage hasn’t been as serious as that in bigger cities like
Hangzhou,” Zhang Xiaodong, a spokesman at Zhejiang Geely, said
by telephone today.  Zhejiang will monitor more than 2,400 businesses and charge
an additional 0.10 yuan (1.5 cents) to 0.30 yuan per kilowatt-
hour on power consumption above set limits, according to the
statement from the provincial government. The ruling comes into
effect on June 1.  The province’s 35.4-gigawatt generation capacity is 3.5
gigawatts short of what it needs during peak summer demand, the
local government said.  Power Stations  Solar cell maker Zhejiang Sunflower Light Energy Science &
Technology Co., machinery producer Zhejiang Jinggong Science &
Technology Co. and magnet-material manufacturer Hengdian Group
DMEGC Magnetics Co. are also based in Zhejiang.  About 20 provinces and regions started rationing
electricity this month, the official Xinhua News Agency reported
on May 3.  China  may face a summer shortage of 30 gigawatts, the
China Electricity Council said on April 29.  Some coal-fired power stations in provinces such as Gansu,
Hubei, Hunan, Shanxi and Shaanxi have closed because of rising
fuel costs, causing the worst electricity deficit since 2004,
according to Xinhua.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baizhen Chua in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 