-- 
China Mobile’s Wang Is ‘Very Confident’ Even as Stock Falls

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T08:41:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/china-mobile-very-confident-about-outlook-chairman-wang-says.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941)  Chairman  Wang Jianzhou  said he’s “very confident” about the carrier’s
prospects as an investor questioned the merits of holding the
stock after it fell 12 percent in the past six months.  China Mobile adds about 5 million subscribers a month and
has more room to grow as it shifts to a more advanced network
next year, Wang said at an annual shareholders meeting in  Hong
Kong  today. The company, the world’s largest wireless carrier by
customers, is also considering acquisitions in  Asia , he said.  The stock’s decline is worse than the 1.9 percent drop for
Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index in the same period. China Mobile
said in March it will invest as much as 132.4 billion yuan ($20
billion) on its current third-generation network and add
wireless hotspots to attract higher-spending customers to
download music and games, after expanding its user base by
luring customers in China’s rural areas who spend less.  “The share price is comparatively low, and our management
team is concerned about that and how to realize full value,”
Wang said in response to a shareholder’s question about the
stock’s decline. “Management is still very confident in the
outlook.”  The Hong Kong-based operator will look at opportunities to
buy companies in Asia, he said. Its parent has a unit in
 Pakistan  that may break even next year, and China Mobile may buy
over the unit “at any time,” Wang said.  China Mobile lost 0.3 percent to close at HK$69.00 in Hong
Kong trading, and the  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added 0.7 percent.  Surpassing 600 Million  The carrier became the world’s first phone company to
exceed 600 million subscribers in the first quarter, driven by
additions of customers in the countryside. China Unicom (Hong
Kong) Ltd., the nation’s second-biggest mobile-phone company
with 320.9 million subscribers, has 18.5 million 3G users,
trailing the larger rival’s 27 million.  China Mobile aims to maintain its lead with heavy-data
users by introducing the country’s first fourth-generation
network using the Chinese-developed TD-LTE technology next year,
Wang said. It received government approval in December to begin
a trial in seven major cities including Beijing, Shanghai and
Shenzhen, he said.  The company may also be able to offer  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone
with the shift to TD-LTE, Wang said. While Apple has decided not
to make a version of the phone for the third-generation TD-SCDMA
system that is used only by China Mobile, the Cupertino,
California-based company may produce one for the TD-LTE system,
he said.  Carolyn Wu, an Apple spokeswoman in Beijing, declined to
comment.  Wireless Attraction  Even without an iPhone that works on its 3G network, China
Mobile has been able to attract 4 million users of the popular
handset with its wireless hotspots, Wang said. The company
intends to have as many as 1 million hotspots, Chief Executive
Officer Li Yue said, without giving a timeframe.  IPhone users make greater use of data and downloads than
the average subscriber, Wang said, without providing figures.  China  Mobile said last month that 549 million customers
used value-added data services on their phones in the first
quarter, and 476 million accessed its wireless music service.
Value-added services were the “driving force” of sales growth
in the first quarter, the company said.  First-quarter net income climbed 5.4 percent from a year
earlier to 26.9 billion yuan, and sales rose 8.3 percent to
118.2 billion yuan, the company said April 20.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  