-- 
China Winning Big-Ship Deal May Threaten South Korea Grip: Freight Markets

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-05-19T00:32:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/china-winning-big-ship-deal-may-threaten-south-korea-grip-freight-markets.html
Yangzijiang Shipbuilding Holdings Ltd. (YZJ) 
may become the first Chinese yard to win an overseas order for
10,000-container vessels as the Asian nation challenges  South
Korea ’s dominance in building more profitable types of ships.  The shipbuilder is in discussions with  Seaspan Corp. (SSW)  on an
order, it said by e-mail yesterday without elaboration. Hong
Kong-based lessor Seaspan said in a filing earlier this month
that it had signed a letter of intent for a “significant
number” of 10,000-box ships with a Chinese yard it didn’t name.  Yangzijiang, Cosco Corp. Singapore Ltd. and  China  Rongsheng
Heavy Industry Group Co., the largest Chinese shipbuilders
listed overseas, have begun targeting orders for container,
liquefied-natural gas and car-carrying ships as a glut of dry-
bulk vessels saps demand for Chinese yards’ mainstay products.
The push may mean more competition for South Korean shipbuilders
including Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. and Samsung Heavy
Industries Co., the world’s biggest.  “The only things it takes to move up the shipbuilding
learning curve are engineers, financing and time,” said Jon Windham, a  Barclays Capital  analyst in  Hong Kong . “China has
all three of those in spades.”  Chinese shipyards have traditionally focused on building
dry-bulk vessels, used to carry  iron ore , coal and other
commodities, as they are less complex than container carriers or
tankers. Global orders for these types of ships, about half of
which are built in China, plunged 73 percent to $2.3 billion in
the first quarter, according to shipbroker Clarkson Plc.  Dry-Bulk Glut  Shipping lines have pared dry-bulk orders as the Baltic Dry
Index, the benchmark for commodity-shipping costs, has plunged
about 67 percent in a year on overcapacity. The existing global
order backlog is also about 46 percent the size of the in-
service fleet, according to Clarkson.  China’s government contributed to the commodity-vessel glut
by giving out financing for ships during the global financial
crisis to help prop up local yards and secure jobs. The country
has about 3,000 shipbuilders, including roughly 1,000 able to
build ships that can travel in deep seas, according to Henry
Mytton-Mills, managing director at Aries Shipbroking ( Asia ) Pte
in Singapore.  “That’s seriously scary,” he said. “It’s bigger than the
rest of the world’s capacity put together many times over.”  Chinese shipyards have orders for 134 million deadweight
tons of dry-bulk vessels, more than double their backlog for
other types of ships, according to Clarkson data.  Higher Prices  China’s bigger shipbuilders plan to make more sophisticated
vessels to escape the capacity glut and because they attract
higher prices. New vessels able to carry 9,600 boxes cost $118
million, about double the price for capesize dry-bulk ships, the
biggest component of Chinese yards’ orderbooks by tonnage,
according to Clarkson.  Yangzijiang plans to invest 4 billion yuan ($615 million)
in a yard in Jiangsu province, southern China, that will
eventually be able to build the equivalent of 10 very large
crude carriers or 12 10,000- container ships  a year to support
its expansion into larger vessels.  The shipbuilder delivered 17 vessels from its three
existing yards in the first quarter. It had orders for 45
container ships at the end of March, the biggest of which will
be able to haul 4,800 boxes. It also had 86 dry-bulk orders.  The company has jumped 33 percent in  Singapore  trading in
the past year, outperforming a 10 percent gain for the benchmark
Straits Times Index.  Cosco Singapore  Cosco Singapore, part of China’s largest shipping group,
this year delivered its first 5,000-car vessel, first shuttle
tanker and first ship for installing turbines at offshore wind
farms. Parent China Ocean Shipping (Group) Co.’s venture in
Nantong with Kobe, Japan-based Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.
has orders for eight 13,500-container vessels from another unit
of the state-controlled shipping group. Deliveries are due to
start next year, according to Clarkson.  Rongsheng Heavy, China’s largest shipbuilder not under
state control, is due to deliver its first offshore vessel, a
deepwater pipe-laying crane ship, to China National Offshore Oil
Corp. this year. The company is working with Gaztransport &
Technigaz SAS and STX France SA on developing LNG vessels.  “Chinese shipyards have been trying to strengthen their
skills to reduce their reliance on building bulk ships,” said
Lee Sokje, an analyst at Mirae Securities Co. in  Seoul . “It’s
not going to be easy for them because these things can’t happen
overnight.”  South Korean yards hold about 94 percent of global orders
for ships able to carry more than 10,000 containers, according
to Clarkson. They also have a 65 percent share for LNG tankers
and 51 percent of crude tankers.  Delay Concerns  Chinese shipyards may have to overcome concerns about
delays to win orders for new products. Rongsheng Heavy, for
instance, may only deliver as few as three very large ore
carriers this year, compared with the eight anticipated in its
2010 initial public offering prospectus, because construction is
behind schedule, according to Barclays Capital.  No one was available for comment at Shanghai-based
Rongsheng Heavy when Bloomberg News called yesterday.  Vale SA (VALE) ,  Brazil ’s largest iron-ore miner, has ordered a
total of 19 VLOCs from Rongsheng Heavy and Seoul-based Daewoo
Shipbuilding & Marine Engineering Co., according to Clarkson
data. Daewoo delivered the first of the seven VLOCs it’s
building in March, a month ahead of schedule.  On-Time Deliveries  “South Korean shipyards have a very good track record of
being on time or ahead of schedule,” said Cho In Karp, head of
research at Heungkuk Securities Co. in Seoul. “Some shipping
companies are willing to pay more because they know Koreans are
reliable.”  Korean shipbuilders still maintain a technology edge that
enables them to build ships beyond the scope of Chinese
shipbuilders, Cho said. Daewoo won an order from A.P. Moller-
Maersk A/S in February to build as many as 30 ships able to
carry 18,000 containers each, which will be the largest cargo-
box ships afloat. The contract will be worth as much as $5.4
billion.  “There is no question that the Chinese will eventually
catch up to the Koreans in high-end products,” Lee said. “But,
they have to address reliability issues before global shipping
lines will feel confident placing billion-dollar orders with
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  