-- 
Chrysler Debt Deal Changes for Second Time as Carmaker Jockeys for Terms

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 
2011-05-19T17:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/chrysler-group-increases-size-of-term-loan-by-500-million-to-3-billion.html
Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker
seeking private funding to repay U.S. and Canadian bailouts,
shifted the mix of loans and bonds it’s marketing for the second
time this week as it gauged investor interest.  The carmaker raised the size of a  term loan  it’s seeking
and cut the amount of high-yield bonds it plans to issue,
according to people familiar with the transaction. It now plans
to pay lenders 4.75 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate on a $3 billion term loan. The loan will
have a minimum floor on the Libor rate of 1.25 percent and be
sold at 99 cents on the dollar, said the people, who declined to
be identified because the terms are private. Chrysler is also
marketing $3.2 billion of  junk bonds , down from $3.5 billion.  “The company would like to do as much in loans as
possible,” said Marc Gross, a New York-based money manager at
RS Investments, who cited the cheaper cost of repaying loans.
Gross helps oversee $3 billion in fixed-income funds.  Chrysler is seeking as much as $7.5 billion of debt to
repay the U.S. and Canadian governments. At the same time,
Italian partner Fiat SpA wants to increase its ownership stake
in the U.S. automaker as Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  prepares to take Chrysler public.  Today’s shift marks the second change to the company’s
proposed debt structure this week. It decreased the size of the
term loan to $2.5 billion from the initially proposed $3.5
billion on May 17, and increased the interest it was willing to
pay along with the amount of bonds it planned.  Eileen Wunderlich, a spokeswoman for  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler, declined to comment.  Junk Yields Fall  The average absolute yield on junk bonds fell to a record
low of 7.19 percent May 16 from 7.85 percent at year end,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch U.S. High Yield
Master II Index. Companies have sold $149.5 billion of the bonds
this year through yesterday, compared with $110.5 billion during
the year earlier period, Bloomberg data show.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
closed yesterday at 95.59 cents on the dollar. It has been
trading this year at an average price of 95.67 cents, the
strongest since November 2007.  Lead Underwriters  Morgan Stanley is arranging Chyrsler’s term loan. Bank of
America Corp. will manage the bond sale and Citigroup Inc. is
arranging a revolving loan, two other people briefed on the
matter said last week. The size of the revolver Chrysler is
seeking decreased to $1.3 billion from $1.5 billion, three
people said today.  In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again
once it’s repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  Moody’s Investors Service rated Chrysler B2, its first-lien
senior secured loans Ba2 and the second-lien notes B2, it said
May 3. Standard & Poor’s rated the issuer B+.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  