-- 
Chrysler Group Term Loan to Repay U.S., Canada Debt Rises in First Trade

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-05-19T22:26:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/chrysler-group-term-loan-to-repay-u-s-canada-debt-rises-in-first-trade.html
Chrysler Group LLC’s $3 billion term
loan to repay borrowings from the U.S. and Canadian governments
rose in its first trade, according to information provider
Markit Group Ltd.  The six-year loan, issued at 99 cents on the dollar, first
changed hands at 100.375 cents, Markit said. The  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based company increased the size of the loan by $500
million earlier today.  Chrysler is raising $7.5 billion in leveraged loans and
 junk bonds  to pay back its government-funded bailouts as Italian
partner  Fiat SpA (F)  seeks to increase its stake in the U.S.
automaker. The company, which also is planning an initial public
offering, is taking advantage of record-low yields in
speculative-grade bonds, as well as loan prices at their highest
levels in more than three years.  The maker of Jeep and Dodge vehicles issued $1.5 billion of
eight-year, 8 percent notes and $1.7 billion of 10-year, 8.25
percent bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Chrysler
said today in a statement that it’s also raising a $1.3 billion
revolving  credit line .  Morgan Stanley arranged the term loan with an interest rate
that’s 4.75 percentage points more than the London interbank
offered rate and a 1.25 percent floor on the lending benchmark,
Bloomberg data show.  Chrysler can’t refinance the loan during the first year,
the data show. Lenders would be paid 102 cents on the dollar for
a refinancing during the second year and the premium would drop
to 1 cent more than face value the following year.  Second Change  Bank of America Corp. managed the bond sale and Citigroup
Inc. is raising the revolver, according to people briefed on the
transaction, who declined to be identified because the terms are
private. In a revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed
again once it’s repaid; in a  term loan , it can’t.  Chrysler revised the mix of debt it’s seeking to issue
twice this week as it gauged investor interest. The company had
said May 2 in a statement that it planned the refinancing mix to
include a $1.5 billion credit line and $2.5 billion in eight-
and 10-year notes.  The average absolute yield on junk bonds fell to a record
low of 7.19 percent today from 7.85 percent at year end,
according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch US High Yield
Master II Index.  The Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index
rose above 95 cents on the dollar on Jan. 13 for the first time
since November 2007 and has been trading this year at an average
price of 95.64 cents.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in  New York  at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 