-- 
Coal India Faces Profit Squeeze on Plan to Hold Price Increase

-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 
2011-05-19T18:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/coal-india-faces-profit-squeeze-on-plan-to-hold-price-increase.html
Coal India Ltd. (COAL) ’s profitability may
slip after the world’s biggest producer of the fuel said it will
refrain from raising prices as the government struggles to
control inflation.  State-owned Coal India doesn’t want to prompt increases in
power tariffs and will try to compensate for higher wage bills
through other means such as increasing volume, Chairman N.C. Jha
said in an interview yesterday. Almost half of India’s power
generation capacity is fueled by coal, according to the Central
Electricity Authority.  “The market is expecting an 8-10 percent price increase
after the wages are revised and if that does not happen, it’s
bad news,” said  Rahul Jain , an analyst with RBS Equities India
Ltd. in Mumbai. “I expect the salary bill to rise by 30 percent
and the last price increase will not be able to offset the
entire cost burden.” He has a sell rating on the stock.  India ’s utilities were spared when Kolkata-based Coal India
increased prices of various grades of coal in February, which
will add 62 billion rupees ($1.4 billion) to the company’s sales
in the current financial year. India’s central bank raised
borrowing costs this month for the ninth time since March 2010,
the fastest pace of rate rises among major Asian economies.
Inflation has remained above 8 percent for 16 months.  Wage Burden  Coal India may have to increase prices a second time in
2011 to lessen the burden of the wage revision, Coal Minister
Sriprakash Jaiswal said on March 22. Two calls made to his
office yesterday seeking comment went unanswered.  Coal India will continue with spot sales of coal through
electronic auctions to help consumers that don’t have supply
agreements with the miner, Jha said.  Private power producers want spot sales to be halted to
help bridge a shortfall in coal supplies, the Economic Times
reported May 18. Coal India sells about 10 percent of its coal
through auctions.  “There is no question of stopping e-auctions,” Jha said.
“The power ministry and the power companies have to address
transportation issues rather than blame us for their problems.”  Coal India set aside 335 million metric tons of coal in the
year ended March 31 for power utilities, which lifted 304
million tons, Jha said.  Coal India is discussing with the coal ministry a proposal
to buy a 15 percent stake in one of  Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ’s mines
in  Australia ,’’ Jha said, without elaborating.  “There are three active proposals with us and this could
be the first one to materialize,” he said. “Due diligence is
nearly over for all three.”  Besides Peabody, the company is evaluating stake purchase
proposals for a mine of  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  in the U.S. and one
mine of Novem Sinarma in  Indonesia , Jaiswal said on April 6.  Each of the assets is valued in the range of $400 million
to $800 million, Jha said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: 