-- 
College’s E-Mails About Slaying Suspect Loughner Ordered Released by Judge

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-19T23:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/college-s-e-mails-about-slaying-suspect-loughner-ordered-released-by-judge.html
E-mails about Jared Lee Loughner,
accused of killing six people and wounding U.S. Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords , must be released by the  community college  in
Arizona where he was once a student, a judge ruled.  The e-mails reveal campus police reports and exchanges
between administrators at Pima Community College about
Loughner’s increasing erratic behavior in classrooms, including
“creepy stares” and challenging teachers, saying that he has a
right to earn an “A” “regardless of what answers he gives
because of free speech.”  Phoenix Newspapers Inc., owner of the Arizona Republic,
sued to force to release of the e-mails, some of which were
written about Loughner in the months before Loughner was
suspended by the college. The e-mails must be made public under
the Arizona Public Records Law, Pima County Superior Court Judge
Stephen Villarreal said in an order released yesterday.  Loughner, 22, has pleaded not guilty to charges he killed
six people and wounded 13 atGiffords’s Jan. 8 community meeting
outside a supermarket in Tucson,  Arizona . U.S. District Judge
Larry Burns has scheduled a May 25 hearing to determine whether
Loughner is competent to stand trial.  Loughner told one counselor who questioned his behavior in
a math class that “my instructor said he called a number 6 and
I said I call it 18.” He also asked the instructor “how can
you deny math instead of accept it,” according to the e-mail
the counselor sent to campus administrators.  “He has extreme views and frequently meanders from the
point,” according to the counselor’s report. “He seems to have
difficulty understanding how his actions impact others, yet very
attuned to his unique ideology that is not always homogenous.”  Loughner was expelled from the college in September.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Loughner, 11-00187, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Tucson).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 