-- 
Copper May Climb on Rebound Speculation, According to Survey

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-05-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/copper-may-climb-on-rebound-speculation-according-to-survey.html
Copper may rise on speculation prices
are set to rebound further after falling almost 10 percent in
three weeks, a survey showed.  Ten of 16 analysts, investors and traders surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 63 percent, said prices will gain next week. Five
predicted a drop and one forecast little change. Copper for
three-month delivery was up 2.1 percent for this week at $8,972
a metric ton by 4:15 p.m. yesterday on the London Metal Exchange
after sliding 9.4 percent in the three weeks through May 13.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said May 16 copper presents a
“buying opportunity” as demand in  China  maintains its pace. A
day later, Macquarie Group Ltd. stopped advising investors to
sell the metal. Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. raised copper-
price estimates for this year and next on May 18, citing “some
signs” that demand is starting to build in China.  “Copper has bottomed for now and will see higher levels
next week,” said  William O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors
in  Upper Saddle River ,  New Jersey . “The funds have liquidated
heavily and could begin to return to the long side. Demand still
looks quite good to me. That’s really the key to any  bull
market .”  China is the world’s biggest consumer of copper, used in
wiring, pipes and roofing.  The red bars on the attached chart are derived by
subtracting bearish forecasts from bullish estimates, with
readings below zero signaling the majority of respondents expect
a decline. The green line shows the copper price. The survey
data shown are as of May 13.  The weekly copper survey has forecast prices accurately in
67 of the past 137 weeks, or 49 percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bearish: 5 Bullish: 10 Hold: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  