-- 
Corn Costs Advancing in Japan on Nuclear Crisis May Help Tyson Meat Sales

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a   a n d   Y a s u m a s a   S o n g
-- 
2011-05-19T11:56:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/corn-costs-advancing-in-japan-on-nuclear-crisis-may-help-tyson-meat-sales.html
Corn costs in Japan, the biggest
importer, are rising after shipping fees increased because of
concern over nuclear radiation, boosting expenses at animal-feed
makers and potentially helping meat sales by  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN)   Importers need to pay about 5 percent more to ship corn
from the U.S. Gulf to ports in eastern Japan compared with the
west on concern vessels may be tainted by radiation leaking from
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi power station, said Nobuyuki Chino, the
president of Tokyo-based grain company Continental Rice Corp.  Corn more than doubled in Chicago in the past year and
climbed to the highest since 2008 as global supplies failed to
keep pace with demand. That helped drive up world food costs by
36 percent to near a record in April, according to the  United
Nations , prompting central banks from Beijing to  New Delhi  to
increase  interest rates . For feed makers in Japan, the higher
shipping fees make ingredients more expensive.  “Freight operators are still showing an aversion for
eastern Japan,” said Hideo Harada, director for livestock-
policy planning at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries, in an interview in Tokyo. “It’s very costly to
deliver grains to eastern regions after unloading them at ports
in other areas.”  Higher feed prices may add to expenses at domestic meat
producers, helping exports by Springdale, Arkansas-based Tyson
Foods, the largest U.S. meat processor. U.S. meat may be a
cheaper option, said Susumu Harada, senior director at the Tokyo
office of the U.S. Meat Export Federation.  Pork, Beef  Pork orders from Japan advanced 20 percent in April from
March and gained more than 20 percent for beef, said Takamichi Tawara, head of Tyson’s  Tokyo  office. Its meat exports to Japan
reached $400 million last year, comprising 60 percent pork, 20
percent beef and the rest chicken and processed food, he said.  “The export demand out of Japan has remained very
strong,” said James V. Lochner, Tyson’s chief operating officer,
on a conference call May 9. “We’ve certainly seen no pullback,
and if anything we continue to see strong interest up front,”  Japan used 11.9 million metric tons of corn to help produce
24.8 million tons of feed in the year ended March 31, 2010, data
from the agriculture ministry show. Japan also buys 4 million
tons of the grain a year for sweetener and snacks.  “The difficulty in arranging corn shipments may prompt
end-users to switch from imported grains to domestic supplies as
the government is promoting local rice as an alternative to corn
in feed,” said Takaki Shigemoto, commodity analyst at research
company JSC Corp. in Tokyo.  Tightened Checks  Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the nuclear station
crippled by the March 11 quake and tsunami, said May 12 one
reactor core is more seriously damaged than thought, setting
back its plan to resolve the crisis. It detected this month that
radiation-tainted water leaked into the ocean through a crack.  The Netherlands found traces of radiation on 19 containers
originating from  Japan , the Food and Consumer Product Safety
Authority said May 10. Ports worldwide have tightened checks on
ships that left Japan after the temblor.  Kashima in Ibaraki prefecture, south of Fukushima, is the
largest port for the unloading of imported corn from vessels.
Because of its proximity to the stricken plant, site of the
worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl, importers are finding it
hard to arrange deliveries, said Chino, who has traded grains
for more than three decades, in an interview in Tokyo.  Feed production in Kashima reached 4 million tons in the
year ended March 31, 2010, representing 16 percent of total
Japanese output, government data show. As plants in the area
avoided serious damage, they can be used to boost output for
supplies to quake-stricken regions.  Costs Increase  The “disruption in Kashima’s operations boosts costs for
feed makers, which will eventually be passed on to livestock
farmers and consumers of eggs and meat,” Chino said.  In the northern prefectures of Iwate and Miyagi, 11 feed
plants are closed without restoration of water and electricity
supplies after the quake. Output in the facilities amounted to
1.8 million tons, or 7.4 percent of total production in the year
through March last year.  Six plants in Hachinohe city in Aomori prefecture, north of
Iwate, have resumed operation. Output is returning to the pre-
quake level of 1.82 million tons a year, said Harada at the
agriculture ministry.  Feed supplies to farmers in northern Japan have recovered
to about 8,800 tons a day from the pre-quake level of 10,000
tons, Harada said. Of the total, 5,300 tons are supplied by
restored plants in the region and the rest are shipped from
facilities outside, he said.  The price of corn on the  Chicago  Board of Trade advanced
0.9 percent to $7.565 a bushel today, the sixth day of gains,
and has climbed 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net 
Yasumasa Song in Tokyo at 
 ysong9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole in Singapore at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  