-- 
Crude Oil Declines as U.S. Economic Reports Signal Fuel Demand May Weaken

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-05-19T20:51:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/crude-oil-falls-in-new-york-as-japanese-economy-shrinks-commodities-drop.html
Oil fell for the third day this week
after the index of U.S. leading indicators dropped for the first
time in 10 months in April and sales of existing U.S. homes
declined, signals that fuel demand may weaken as the economy
struggles to recover.  Oil tumbled 1.7 percent as the index, the New York-based
Conference Board’s gauge of the economic outlook for the next
three to six months, unexpectedly decreased by 0.3 percent after
a revised 0.7 percent gain in March.  Japan ’s economy shrank more
than estimated in the first quarter, a government report showed.  “The leading indicator drop was a little bit of a surprise
and just confirms some broader-market fears about the economy in
its current position,” said Jason Schenker, president of
Prestige Economics LLC in Austin,  Texas .  Crude for June delivery fell $1.66 to settle at $98.44 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have risen 41
percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for July settlement slipped 88 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $111.42 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  The index of leading indicators decreased 0.3 percent, the
Conference Board reported. It was forecast to increase 0.1
percent, based on the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey
of economists.  Purchases of existing homes dropped 0.8 percent to a 5.05
million annual pace last month, the National Association of
Realtors said today in  Washington . Economists forecast 5.2
million in a Bloomberg survey before the report.  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil-consuming country,
followed by China and Japan.  IEA Production Call  The  International Energy Agency  trimmed its 2011 global
oil-demand forecast for the first time this year in a report
last week, saying the year’s price rally is beginning to weigh
on consumers, particularly in  North America . Nymex futures have
climbed 7.7 percent in 2011.  The IEA said today that oil producers need to increase
supplies as prices are threatening the global economic recovery.  “There is a clear, urgent need for additional supplies on
a more competitive basis to be made available to refiners to
prevent a further tightening of the market,” the IEA’s
governing board said today in an e-mailed statement. “The rise
in  oil prices  since September is affecting the economic
recovery.”  Japan GDP  Japan’s Cabinet Office reported that gross domestic product
shrank in the wake of the March 11 earthquake and tsunami. GDP
contracted an annualized 3.7 percent in the three months through
March, following a revised 3 percent drop in the previous
quarter, the Cabinet Office said today in  Tokyo .  “Despite the ongoing concerns about the world economy, not
all data indicate that the state of the economy is
deteriorating,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts led by New York-
based  Lawrence Eagles  said in a report today. “Looking past the
headlines of Japan’s economic downturn post the March earthquake
and tsunami, there is evidence that elsewhere in emerging
markets, economic growth is thriving.”  OPEC will raise exports by the most since mid-February this
month to meet growing demand from  Asia , according to tanker-
tracker Oil Movements. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will ship 22.91 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to June 4, up 1.9 percent from 22.49 million in the period
ended May 7, the consultant said today in a report.  Alberta Fires  Firefighters in northern Alberta,  Canada , may begin to gain
the upper hand over wildfires that shut a pipeline carrying
crude from oil-sands projects, Alberta Sustainable Resource
Development said.  Wind speeds have fallen from a peak of almost 100
kilometers (62 miles) an hour on May 15 when fires forced the
evacuation of all 7,000 inhabitants of the town of Slave Lake,
Dave Ealey, a spokesman for the  Alberta  ministry, said
yesterday.  The fires forced Plains All American Pipeline LP to stop
cleanup work from an earlier  oil spill  and shut down its Rainbow
pipeline system on May 15. Cenovus Energy Inc. has shut oil
production at its Pelican Lake project because of the pipeline
closure, Rhona DelFrari, a spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  Canada was the biggest source of U.S. oil imports last
year, providing  1.97 million barrels  a day, according to the
Energy Department.  Earlier, crude rose as much as 0.7 percent after U.S.
jobless claims declined by 29,000 to 409,000 in the week ended
May 14, the lowest level in a month, according to a Labor
Department report in Washington. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a drop to
420,000.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 524,535
contracts as of 3:26 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 803,153
contracts yesterday, 12 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.56 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 