-- 
Danish Banks Face Long-Term Rise in Funding Costs, Moody’s Says

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-19T09:43:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/danish-banks-face-long-term-rise-in-funding-costs-moody-s-says.html
Danish banks face a long-term
increase in funding costs after the February failure of regional
lender Amagerbanken A/S triggered the European Union’s first
senior creditor losses, Moody’s Investors Service said.  “We’ve seen some evidence funding costs are rising, but we
see this more as a long-term issue,” Oscar Heemskerk, an
analyst at the credit rating company, said by phone today. “It
could lead to foreign investors scrutinizing Danish banks more,
making funding more difficult to obtain or more expensive.”  Moody’s today cut the long-term ratings on six Danish
banks, including the country’s biggest, Danske Bank A/S, as it
factored out the likelihood of state support following the
failure of Amagerbanken. That event triggered Danish bank
insolvency rules effective since October and forced senior
bondholders to bear a 41 percent loss amid a Europe-wide debate
on burden sharing.  “Danske Bank was downgraded due to less systemic
support,” Heemskerk said. “The bank’s underlying issues
persist, which is why we’ve kept the outlook negative.”  Danske Bank and Denmark’s No. 2 and No. 3 lenders, Jyske
Bank A/S and Sydbank A/S, had their long-term grades cut to A2
from A1, Moody’s said. Spar Nord Bank A/S and BankNordik, which
yesterday said it bought the healthy parts of Amagerbanken, were
lowered to Baa2 from Baa1. Regional lender Ringkjoebing
Landbobank A/S was cut to A3 from A2, Moody’s said.  ‘Not Happy’  With the exception of Danske Bank, the banks’ financial
strength ratings were also lowered by one step, Moody’s said.  “We’re not happy with how assets have performed, and we
continue to be negative on agriculture, property and small- and
medium-sized enterprise exposures,” Heemskerk said.  According to Claus Groen Therp, an analyst at Enskilda
Securities in Copenhagen, “Danske is not the problem; it’s the
smaller banks that have an issue.” Still, the downgrades are
likely to have an impact because “some of the foreign investors
very much track rating agencies when deciding where to put their
money,” he said.  Heemskerk said Danske Bank’s rating was kept on a negative
outlook because of bank specific issues.  “This is the end of the review,” he said. “The only
other bank we’ve kept on negative outlook is Spar Nord due to
the fact that they have a relatively large government funding
that needs to be refinanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  