-- 
Democratic Groups Pool Money Efforts to Take On Rove, Republicans in 2012

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/democrat-groups-pool-money-efforts-to-take-on-rove-republicans.html
Three Democratic political groups
will team up with a new organization founded by former White
House aides to try to keep President  Barack Obama  in office and
win House and Senate seats in 2012, parroting a strategy
deployed successfully by Republicans last year.  The organizations, operating independently of individual
campaigns and the  Democratic National Committee , will copy the
tactics used by Republican strategist Karl Rove last year when
his party won control of the  House of Representatives  and gained
six seats in the Senate. The Democratic groups will meet
regularly to share information and resources and to target their
political advertising at races where it would be the most
effective.  Three of the organizations, like their Republican
counterparts, won’t have to disclose all of their donors.  “There will be a lot of coordination among the Democratic
groups,” said Alixandria Lapp, executive director of House
Majority PAC. “We’re trying to figure out how we can share
resources and spend our collective donors’ money efficiently.”  House Majority PAC will focus on House races, Majority PAC
will concentrate on the Senate, and Priorities USA will work to
re-elect Obama. They will be supported by American Bridge 21st
Century, which will raise money to dig up information on
Republican candidates that the other groups can use in the
campaigns.  Rove’s Efforts  Rove’s American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies raised $71 million for the 2010 midterm elections.
Rove met regularly with similar independent political groups to
coordinate advertising and spending on behalf of Republicans.
His allied groups included the American Action Network, run by
former Senator Norm Coleman of Minnesota, and Americans for
Prosperity, associated with billionaire brothers Charles and
David Koch, owners of Koch Industries Inc.  “Our goal is to keep pace with  Karl Rove  and the Koch
brothers, but we don’t think we’ll necessarily be able to match
them dollar for dollar,” said  Bill Burton , founder of
Priorities USA and a former White House spokesman.  Rove has set a goal of taking in $120 million for 2012.  Burton’s group, along with Majority PAC and American
Bridge, have corresponding non-profits, known as  501(c)4  groups
for the section of the IRS code that authorizes them. Those arms
can raise money and keep their donors secret as long as the
majority of their work isn’t directly related to a campaign.  Unlimited Donations  By creating political action committees and affiliated non-
profit “social welfare” organizations, the groups can pursue
unlimited donations from contributors willing to disclose their
identities and from those who wish to remain secret. Rove set up
a similar structure with his Crossroads groups last year.  Obama has said he is opposed to keeping the identities of
political donors secret. He has drafted an executive order that
would require government contractors to disclose some of their
political donations, though he hasn’t yet signed the directive.  “The Democrats simply could not allow Republicans to have
exclusive possession of these fundraising groups,” said  Ross Baker , a political science professor at  Rutgers University  in
 New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .  Baker said that in the 2010 campaign, Democrats were so
angered by the January 2010 Supreme Court decision in  Citizens
United  v.  Federal Election Commission  -- which allowed companies
to spend unlimited amounts of money from their corporate
treasuries on political advertising -- that they concentrated on
overturning it, rather than on exploiting it.  Legislative Fight  Last year the House, then controlled by Democrats, passed a
bill that would require political groups to make the names of
their donors public. In the Senate, procedural motions to end
debate and bring a similar measure to the floor failed twice, by
57-41 in July and by 59-39 in September, with 60 votes needed to
move the bill forward.  As the legislative fight was going on, Rove and other
Republicans set up nonprofit corporations that were free to
accept donations from individuals and corporations with no
campaign finance limits. They then spend that money running
television ads attacking Democratic candidates.  The two Crossroads groups reported spending $38 million on
political ads to the  Federal Election Commission , more than any
other outside organization.  The Koch brothers’ group,  Americans for Prosperity ,
reported spending $1.2 million to help elect Republican
candidates last year, according to FEC reports.  David Koch  is
head of the related Americans for Prosperity Foundation, which
said it spent at least $5.5 million on ads last year criticizing
the 2009 economic stimulus measure in districts of House
Democrats who faced close re-election campaigns.  ‘Do It Better’  “We saw how well Republican groups worked together in
2010. Going forward, Democrats will build on their successes,”
said Chris Harris, a spokesman for American Bridge. “We won’t
simply replicate them -- we’ll do it better.”  Burton, Lapp and Craig Varoga of Majority PAC and its
affiliated non-profit, Patriot Majority USA, didn’t specify a
fundraising goal.  American Bridge, founded by David Brock and chaired by
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, is looking to raise $15 million to
$20 million, though it won’t run political ads. It will focus on
providing research on Republican candidates to the other three
groups to use in their ads, Harris said.  “We’re aiming to build the biggest, fastest, hardest-
hitting research and tracking shop in politics,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  