-- 
Derivatives Dynamo Societe Generale Seeks to Make M&A Inroads

-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 
2011-05-19T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/derivatives-dynamo-societe-generale-seeks-to-make-m-a-inroads.html
Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the world’s
leader in equity derivatives, is striking into a business the
French bank once eschewed for its paltrier profits: mergers and
acquisitions.  The Paris-based lender added 15 senior M&A executives since
June and plans hires in places including  Turkey  and the Middle
East as it seeks be among the top 10 merger advisers in  Europe 
by 2015, said Thierry Aulagnon, 60, head of coverage and 
investment banking, in an interview in Paris.  The push into M&A comes in anticipation of new regulations
expected to impose stricter  capital requirements  on banks after
the raft of government bailouts during the financial crisis.
Societe Generale, which suffered a record trading loss from
unauthorized bets by  Jerome Kerviel  in 2008 and accumulated more
than 11 billion euros ($16 billion) of losses during the crisis,
is seeking to expand into less capital-intensive businesses. It
generates about two-thirds of corporate and  investment banking 
revenue from global markets, which includes sales and trading of
equities, fixed-income, currencies and commodities.  “M&A is one of our key ambitions within investment
banking,” Aulagnon said in an interview at SocGen’s
headquarters in Paris’s La Defense financial district. “The
development of investment banking is a response to the changing
banking environment and the relationships we develop with
clients.”  Hiring Bankers  Societe Generale in September hired Hubert Preschez, 40, a
former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker who in April was named to run
French M&A. Jan Sanders, 42, and Francois Vigne, 41, joined in
November, covering metals and mining and construction and
building materials, respectively. Those recruits came after the
hiring of former Credit Suisse Group AG banker Stefan Goetz, 47,
and Axel Malkomes, 45, from 3i Group Plc as well as Daniel Weisslinger, 46, from BNP Paribas SA and Luis Zubillaga, 43,
from JPMorgan.  The hires have helped catapult the French bank to
ninth in European M&A this year, up from 32nd four years ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bank is an adviser
to  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  on its $9.5 billion bid for NYSE Euronext
and is working with Groupe Lactalis on its 3.65 billion-euro
unsolicited bid for the rest of  Parmalat SpA. (PLT)   “Everyone wants to expand in fee-based, balance-sheet-
light businesses that don’t tie in much capital,” said Jorge Mayo, an analyst at RBS Global Banking & Markets in  London . “SG
has been hiring selectively in M&A but evidence of market-share
gains seem limited.”  M&A Revenue  Banks typically derive a small portion of earnings from
mergers and acquisitions advice, although the business brings
prestige and relationships with chief executive officers. Less
than 6 percent of last year’s total investment banking revenue
came from M&A at New York-based  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan.  In  France  it ranks first this year, compared with third for
all of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Globally,
Societe Generale ranks 14th.  In the past year, Societe Generale has worked on about $102
billion of deals and deployed its balance sheet on transactions
including Sanofi SA’s purchase of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Genzyme Corp., the largest maker of medicines for rare genetic
disorders, for about $20 billion. The French bank is also
providing funding to Lactalis, France’s largest maker of cheese.  “We hardly had teams outside of France two or three years
ago,” said Thierry d’Argent, 45, head of global M&A at Societe
Generale. “Volume is up and we’re on more significant deals
than we’ve ever worked on and ones you wouldn’t have seen us on
years ago and we are increasing our share.”  Profit Goal  Societe Generale, which makes about half of its earnings
from  consumer banking , aims to earn 6 billion euros of annual
profit next year, compared with 3.9 billion euros last year. The
bank has said it’s on course to reach its goal. And while the
contribution of M&A may be slight, Societe Generale is pressing
ahead.  “We have been strong in equity derivatives and structured
finance, where we’re leaders, but it’s the other areas --
investment banking, including M&A, that we have been developing
further,” Aulagnon said.  Societe Generale won IFR’s equity derivatives house of the
year award for 2010, according to a December statement on the
bank’s Web site.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net  