-- 
Doha Talks on Trade Face ‘Unbridgeable’ Gaps, APEC Ministers Say

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-05-20T20:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/doha-talks-on-trade-may-need-to-be-ended-u-s-envoy-kirk-says.html
The  Doha round  of World Trade
Organization negotiations faces an “unbridgeable” gap and
needs a new approach after a decade without striking a deal, a
group of 21 Pacific ministers said.  Trade ministers from the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation
group have been the most bullish backers of the talks, calling
for a speedy conclusion in annual gatherings. After two days of
meetings in Big Sky,  Montana , they pledged today to examine
“all options” because the Geneva-based WTO failed again to
reach agreement this year.  “The most important thing that came out of this conference
was a more honest assessment of where we are,” U.S. Trade
Representative Ron Kirk said at a press conference today.  Addressing the meeting of 21 trade ministers from Asian and
Latin American nations yesterday, Kirk said there were “three
possible paths: keep doing what we have been doing, give up or
start thinking of something different that will lead us in a
better direction.” In their statement today the group endorsed
the third option.  “Despite intensive engagement by officials in Geneva, the
gaps remain unbridgeable, as of now, in many key areas,” the
trade ministers said in their joint statement. “We must work
together to develop a clear and realistic path forward that is
consistent with our continuing aspiration for the successful
conclusion of the Round.”  Kirk’s assessment was the most emphatic statement from
President Barack Obama’s administration that the long-running
talks are foundering. Outside analysts such as former U.S. Trade
Representative Susan Schwab have called the negotiations
“doomed.”  Recognizing a Problem  Six months ago at a meeting in  Japan , the APEC trade
ministers pledged their “unwavering determination” to the
current agenda for the talks.  Kirk said in an interview yesterday that negotiators hadn’t
concluded how to rework the talks, or in what way the U.S., the
world’s largest economy and biggest trading nation, would push
for changes. “The beginning of fixing a problem is recognizing
that you have a problem,” Kirk said.  Kirk’s comments on the WTO talks contrasted with the
assessment from the U.S. and eight other Pacific Rim nations
negotiating the Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement.
Ministers from those nations met yesterday and said they would
try to reach the “broad outlines” of a regional pact before
leaders from APEC meet in  Hawaii  in November.  Doha Agenda  The Doha Round of talks, which began in Doha, Qatar, in
2001, has three primary areas of negotiation -- agriculture,
industrial goods and services.  The initial impasse emerged over agriculture subsidies in
rich nations. In recent years, the U.S. and European Union
demanded that  India , China and  Brazil  reduce tariffs on
industrial goods.  After the meeting today, China rejected complaints from the
U.S. that it has backed away from its push a decade ago on
joining the WTO to loosen restrictive market policies.  “We need Doha,” Yu Jianhua, assistant minister of
Commerce, said at the press conference. “Opening up is our
basic national policy and we will never change that. We cannot
go without the world economy, and Doha serves the interest of
 China .”  Schwab, writing in the publication  Foreign Affairs  last
month, proposed scrapping the Doha talks while continuing
efforts to reduce fishing subsidies, permit duty-free entry for
goods from the poorest nations and cut tariffs on environmental
goods.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  