-- 
Yen Falls Versus Euro, Heads for Weekly Loss as Bank of Japan Holds Policy

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 
2011-05-20T07:28:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/dollar-set-for-weekly-decline-on-bets-weak-housing-to-delay-fed-tightening.html
The yen fell against the euro,
heading for its first decline in three weeks, as the  Bank of
Japan  maintained monetary stimulus to support an economy in
recession after a record earthquake.  Japan ’s currency was set for a weekly loss against all of
its major counterparts as BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa and his
colleagues decided to keep a 30-trillion yen ($367 billion)
credit program and a 10-trillion yen asset-purchase fund that
represent the bank’s main policy tools. The dollar is poised for
a five-day decline against the euro before data forecast to show
U.S. new home sales grew at a slower pace.  “Given that policy options are pretty limited, the BOJ
probably wants to preserve as much ammunition as possible,”
said  Mari Iwashita , chief market economist at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Chances for additional easing are
still alive and we could see the BOJ expand asset purchases by 5
trillion yen, as the deputy governor proposed, around August.”  The yen weakened 0.2 percent to 117.04 per euro as of 8:15
a.m. in  London  from 116.79 in  New York  yesterday, down 2.7
percent this week. The dollar was little changed at $1.4307 per
euro, 1.3 percent lower since May 13. The yen depreciated 0.2
percent to 81.79 per dollar.  Japan’s gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7
percent in the three months through March, the Cabinet Office
said yesterday, after a magnitude-9 earthquake and a deadly
tsunami on March 11 disrupted supply lines and caused factories
to shut.  BOJ Meeting  The BOJ kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged at a
range of zero to 0.1 percent and refrained from increasing its
credit programs at the end of a two-day meeting today, as
predicted by all 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  “The BOJ is expected to emphasize its stance for monetary
easing to support recovery from the earthquake, while its
counterparts are moving toward tightening,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior strategist in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Trust & Banking
Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest bank. “That should be a
reason for people to avoid the yen.”  The yen has lost 5.4 percent this year in the biggest drop
among the 10 developed-nation exchange rates tracked under
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
fallen 4.7 percent, while the euro has risen 2.8 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was at 75.135 today, down from 75.757 on May 13.  U.S. Housing  Purchases of U.S. new houses advanced 1.7 percent to a
305,000 annual pace in April after gaining 11.1 percent the
prior month, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg before the Commerce Department’s report on
May 24. Existing home sales unexpectedly fell 0.8 percent to a
5.05 million annual pace last month, the National Association of
Realtors said yesterday.  “The U.S. economic recovery is losing momentum,” said
Misato Nakashima, a currency analyst at Himawari Securities Inc.
in Tokyo. “Expectations continue to fall about an early exit
from monetary easing by the Fed, which is likely to be a dollar-
sell factor.”  Fed Bank of New York President  William Dudley  said the
central bank is falling short of its goals because of the modest
pace of the recovery, with unemployment too high and headline
inflation likely to ease.  “The recovery remains moderate and we still have a
considerable way to go to meet the Fed’s dual mandate of full
employment and price stability,” Dudley said yesterday in a
speech in New Paltz, New York. Dudley is also set to speak about
regional economic conditions today in Fishkill, New York.  New Zealand Budget  New Zealand’s dollar strengthened against the yen as the
nation issues bonds to help pay for NZ$5.5 billion ($4.4
billion) of costs related to earthquake damage in Christchurch.
The government yesterday projected an operating surplus of
NZ$1.3 billion in the year ending June 2015.  “Demand for  New Zealand  government bonds is going to be
very strong as a result of this budget,” said Khoon Goh, head
of market economics and strategy at ANZ National Bank Ltd. in
Wellington. “That will provide a bit of buying support for the
currency.”  New Zealand’s dollar traded at 79.22 U.S. cents from 79.09
cents, set for a 0.6 percent gain this week. The so-called kiwi
was at 64.77 yen from 64.54 yen yesterday, when it reached 64.93
yen, the strongest since May 3.  -- With assistance from Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo and Allison Bennett in New York. Editors: Nate Hosoda, Matthew Brown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  