-- 
Dudley Says It’s Important Not to ‘Overreact’ to Inflation

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T18:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/dudley-says-it-s-important-not-to-overreact-to-inflation-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said it’s important for the central
bank not to “overreact” to the recent pickup in inflation by
tightening monetary policy.  “It is important for us not to overreact to this
inflation, raise  interest rates  dramatically, to snuff this
inflation out because if we did we would have a very bad
consequence for economic activity and employment,” Dudley said
today in response to questions in Middletown, New York. “We are
trying to strike the appropriate balance.”  Inflation of more than 3 percent is “somewhat above the
desired level” and has been pushed higher by rising
commodities, Dudley said in his speech as part of a two-day tour
of the Hudson Valley region. He said it was “noteworthy” that
“there has been limited pass-through into the prices of other
goods and services.”  “If we think the inflation pressures are temporary, then
it is very important we don’t overreact,” he said. While
saying, “I don’t like it anymore than you do,” Dudley also
said “when we conduct monetary policy, we have to figure out
the right balance so at the end of the day we achieve our
objectives,” which include full employment.  The  consumer price index  increased 3.2 percent in the 12
months ended in April, the biggest year-over-year gain since
October 2008, figures from the Labor Department showed May 13.
The index excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent from April
2010, the most since February 2010.  Dudley’s view echoed Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said
last month he expects inflation resulting from higher
commodities prices to be “transitory.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in New York at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Scott Lanman at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net  