-- 
Health Insurers Lose Push to Ease Rule on U.S. Overhaul Law’s Price Review

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-05-19T18:26:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/health-insurers-lose-push-to-ease-rule-on-u-s-overhaul-law-s-price-review.html
U.S. insurers led by  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) 
and  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  failed to get federal regulators to
change a rule in the 2010 health-care overhaul that triggers a
review of any premium increases exceeding 10 percent.  The ruling takes effect this year and adds pressure on
insurers to justify price increases. The health insurance
industry’s Washington lobbying group, America’s Health Insurance
Plan had asked the government to do away with the 10 percent
rate review threshold, calling it flawed.  The rules were prompted partly by a proposal from the
 California  subsidiary of Indianapolis-based WellPoint to raise
rates as much as 39 percent in 2010. After a review by
California’s insurance commissioner, the underlying calculations
were found to be incorrect and WellPoint cut the increase in
half, according to the  Department of Health  and Human Services.  “Effective rate review works,” said  Kathleen Sebelius ,
the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services, in a statement
announcing the rules. “It does so by protecting consumers from
unreasonable rate increases and bringing needed transparency to
the marketplace.”  Insurance exchanges set up by the health-care overhaul will
offer tax credits for Americans to buy private coverage by 2019.
Starting this year, insurers are to provide state and federal
regulators with justification for any premium increases of 10
percent or more.  Subject to Reviews  Insurers are subject to the reviews starting on Sept. 1,
the government said in announcing the process. In September
2012, the U.S. will set up new price thresholds for state-by-
state review to replace the 10 percent benchmark.  Karen Ignagni , the America’s Health Insurance Plan chief
executive officer, said policymakers should focus on lowering
underlying medical costs such as hospitals, doctors, technology,
and drug prices.  “Health plans are doing their part to restrain health-care
cost growth by partnering with providers across the country to
change payment models to promote and reward safe, high-quality,
cost-effective care,” Ignagni said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 