-- 
East African Gas Potential to Bolster Acquisitions, Analysts Say

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-05-19T11:25:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/east-african-gas-potential-to-bolster-acquisitions-analysts-say.html
Potential gas resources in East
 Africa  estimated at 40 trillion cubic feet will drive big
explorers to buy stakes in projects in the hope of new finds,
Wood Mackenzie Consultants Ltd. and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  have so far made
the biggest gas discoveries from the total 15 trillion cubic
feet (2.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent) found in the last
18 months across  Mozambique  and  Tanzania , according to the
analysts’ estimates. The world’s largest oil companies,
including  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , are
moving into the frontier where only a fraction of Africa’s wells
were drilled.  “The region will see increased corporate activity as
smaller companies look to farm-out their acreage in order to
fund drilling and the majors are attracted to the potential for
material gas discoveries,” Lucas Herrmann, a London-based
analyst at Deutsche Bank, wrote in the May 18 report. “Use of
the major’s balance sheets and project expertise seems a future
inevitability.”  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  together with  Apache Corp. (APA)  and  Origin Energy
Ltd. (ORG)  plan to drill  Kenya ’s first deep-water exploration well in
the  Lamu Basin  later this year. BG also plans to drill wells to
find enough gas for its possible liquefied natural gas project.
Anadarko and BG each may need about $20 billion to make LNG from
gas in East Africa to supply the fuel to world markets,
according to estimates from Edinburgh, Scotland-based Wood
Mackenzie.  ‘Financial Challenge’  “Both projects have the potential to create significant
value with internal rate of returns in the mid to high teens,”
Deutsche Bank said citing WoodMac estimates. “Even for a
company of Anadarko’s size, the $20 billion plus associated cost
of a full scheme development would prove a challenge to
finance.”  Only about 480 wells have been drilled in East Africa,
compared with 14,500 in the west of the continent and 19,000
wells in central and north Africa, according to  data  from U.K.
explorer  Afren Plc. (AFR)   Statoil and Exxon plan to drill their first well in
Tanzania in 2012, the Norwegian oil company’s chief executive
officer,  Helge Lund , said in February. Afren plans to drill
exploration wells in  Kenya ,  Tanzania  and  Ethiopia  this year and
next year, the London-based company said today in a statement.
Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd is also expanding in East
Africa.  Shell Chief Executive Officer Simon Henry in October said
that the Anglo-Dutch company has examined projects in Uganda and
Tanzania. Shell is applying for four licenses in the African
country, Deutsche Bank said in the report.  “Significant licensing activity over the past five years
across each of the major countries has meant that much of the
more prospective onshore and offshore acreage has now been
grabbed,” Deutsche Bank said. “At this stage the super-majors
are, as ever, largely notable by their absence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  