-- 
Ebersol Resigns as Chairman of NBC Sports After Failing to Reach Contract

-- B y   M i c h e l e   S t e e l e ,   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-05-19T21:37:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ebersol-resigns-as-chairman-of-nbc-sports-after-failing-to-reach-contract.html
Dick Ebersol, the executive who
secured NBC Sports’ grip on rights to broadcast the  Olympic
Games  in the U.S., resigned as chairman of the NBC Universal
division after 22 years as the helm.  Ebersol, 63, couldn’t reach agreement on a new contract,
said a person with knowledge of the situation who declined to be
identified because the details weren’t public. He will be
replaced by Mark Lazarus, president of NBC Sports Cable Group,
New York-based NBC Universal said today in a statement.  Without Ebersol, NBC’s chances to acquire future Olympics
are diminished, Harvey Schiller, former head of the U.S. Olympic
Committee, said in an interview. His resignation, four months
after  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  acquired control of NBC Universal, comes
ahead of next month’s bidding for U.S. rights. Ebersol’s
decision is unrelated to the games, said the person.  “The playing field is more level than it ever has been,”
Schiller said. “That said, it always gets back to the number,
who’s going to pledge the most.”  At stake are the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and
2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. The  International
Olympic Committee  has said the networks can also make offers on
a four-games package including the 2018 and 2020 Olympics.  NBC in 2005 acquired the rights to the 2010 and 2012
Olympics in a deal worth $2.2 billion. Before the Vancouver
games, GE said NBC would lose about $250 million broadcasting
the 2010 Winter Olympics. NBC will also likely lose money on the
2012  Summer Olympics  in  London , said Mike Weisman, a former NBC
Sports executive producer.  Rival Bidders?  “Dick is a guy that’s a visionary, always has been,” said
Charles Besser, chief executive officer of Intersport, a sports
marketing company. “He’s an unbelievably good producer.”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports are
likely bidders for the Olympic Games, Adweek reported this
month. NBC, under Comcast and without Ebersol, will be less
aggressive in bidding, Jason Armstrong, an analyst at Goldman,
Sachs & Co. in  New York , said in an interview.  “Comcast will bid, but with a much greater degree of
financial discipline that probably will limit the company’s
prospects of ultimately winning,” said Armstrong, who
recommends buying Comcast shares.  Comcast, the biggest U.S. cable system owner, acquired
control of NBC Universal from  General Electric Co. (GE) , and added
its Versus and Golf Channel to the sports unit.  Comcast, based in Philadelphia, gained 1 cent to $25.38 at
4;30 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The
shares have climbed 16 percent this year.  NBC Universal CEO Stephen Burke and Lazarus weren’t
available to comment beyond their statements in the press
release, according to Adam Miller, a spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michele Steele in New York at 
 msteele10@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in New York at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  