-- 
Mavericks’ Dirk Nowitzki, Bad Finger and All, Silences Conga Beat of Heat

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-06-03T05:57:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/lebron-conquers-kobe-in-china-with-nba-title-giving-nike-4-billion-boost.html
Dwyane Wade  had just hit a 3-point
shot, sending the house band into overdrive with seven minutes
and 14 seconds left in a game and championship series that
tilted heavily toward the hometown Heat.  Miami, buoyed by Wade and  LeBron James , built a 15-point
lead. The conga drums reverberated, adding a thumping beat to a
vociferous, clad-in-white crowd that believed their team was
halfway home in the first-to-four wins it all series.  The  Dallas Mavericks  called time out. The Heat, James
pounding on Wade’s chest, their teammates exchanging high-fives
and hugs, bounded toward their bench, a display that irked some
on the Dallas side.  The Mavericks, by contrast, walked toward their none-too-
pleased coach, Rick Carlisle, who delivered a simple and stern
message:  “Hang in. Hang around,” was the edict from Carlisle,
whose players hung in and hung around, setting the stage for
former Most Valuable Player  Dirk Nowitzki  to add a do-you-
believe-that moment to a career resume missing only a National
Basketball Association championship. “It wasn’t going to happen
unless we got stops.”  The stops came. One after another after another after
another. Miami missed. Again and again and again. James missed
three times. Wade missed. Udonis Haslem missed.  Chris Bosh 
turned it over. Nowitzki scored his 23rd and 24th points, which
proved the final margin.  Final score: Dallas 95, Miami 93.  Dallas Games  The best-of-seven series, all square at one apiece, resumes
June 5 in Dallas, site of Games 3, 4 and 5.  “That’s about as tough a fourth quarter as you can have,”
Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “When it started to slide, it
just kept on going.”  Late in the game, while the Heat could do little right,
Nowitzki opted to go left.  Much had been made about a torn ligament on the middle
finger of Nowitzki’s left, non-shooting hand. Questions abounded
whether the splint covering the finger would prevent Nowitzki
from effectively using his left hand.  It was Nowitzki driving left, spinning past Bosh and laying
the basketball into the net with 3.6 seconds left on the clock.
The Heat had a foul to give, but chose not to use it. Game over.  “The foul never came so I was able to get to the basket,”
Nowitzki said. “Definitely a huge comeback.”  No Early Celebration  Bosh quashed any notion of the Heat celebrating too early,
of making the mistake of figuring the game was over before it
was over.  “We’re not really guys that exhale much,” he said. “I
don’t really know what happened.”  None of the Heat players could pinpoint what made their 15-
point advantage disappear. For whatever reason the ball movement
stopped, Spoelstra said. Fluidity became funk. More bothersome
to James and Wade was their porous defense.  “We didn’t have to score another point to win the game,”
Wade said. “Our defense, we didn’t play the way that we
normally play.”  Dallas  went on an 8-0 run after the timeout that followed
Wade’s 3-pointer.  With the score 90-84 Miami, James missed a jumper. Jason Terry cut the Dallas deficit to four, prompting a Miami timeout.
Bosh turned it over. Nowitzki made it a two-point game. James
missed a pair of jumpers. Nowitzki tied it and then hit a 3-
point shot, giving Dallas a 93-90 advantage.  Cussed Out  Miami’s Mario Chalmers hit a game-tying 3-point shot,
taking advantage of a blown defensive assignment from Terry, who
got a four-letter earful from Nowitzki during an ensuing
timeout.  “I’m sure there was a little cussing,” Nowitzki said.
“In this league you have to play until the end.”  Wade finished with a game-high 36 points. James had 20,
only two of them in the fourth quarter.  After the game, James and Wade repeatedly were asked about
their celebration, the one backed by drumbeats and a 15-point
cushion.  “A celebration is confetti,” Wade said. “A celebration
is champagne bottles.”  The conga section celebrated for much of the night. Until
Nowitzki went left. The band didn’t play as the crowd headed for
the exits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  