-- 
ECB Could Still Take Greek Collateral After Default, RBS Says

-- B y   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-05-19T13:02:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ecb-could-still-take-greek-collateral-after-default-rbs-says.html
The  European Central Bank  could still
accept collateral from Greek banks for loans in the event the
nation restructures debt, contrary to suggestions by Executive
Board member  Juergen Stark , Royal Bank of Scotland Plc said.  According to ECB rules, any decision on whether to accept
Greek  government bonds  as collateral from the nation’s banks to
obtain ECB funding seems to be “largely discretionary and there
is no automatic legal constraint,”  Jacques Cailloux , chief
euro-region economist for RBS in  London , said in an e-mailed
note today.  Stark, speaking at an event near Athens yesterday, said any
restructuring of Greek debt would be a “catastrophe” that
would “undermine the collateral adequacy” of Greek bonds and
make it “impossible” for the ECB to provide most funding for
Greek lenders. “A restructuring would wipe out part or all the
capital of the Greek banks,” he said.  ECB officials have clashed with European Union political
leaders over a solution to the debt crisis. Stark and fellow
board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  yesterday ruled out a Greek
restructuring after EU leaders floated the idea for the first
time this week of extending the nation’s debt repayments as it
struggles to meet the terms of a 110 billion-euro ($156 billion)
rescue last year.  EU officials say Greece won’t be able to return to markets
and sell 27 billion euros of bonds next year as scheduled under
the bailout, leaving them searching for alternatives to avoid a
default. Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group
of euro-area finance ministers, has said a Greek “soft
restructuring” is possible after the government in Athens takes
additional steps to cut the deficit, such as state-asset sales.  ‘Increasingly Sidelined’  The Frankfurt-based ECB “seems to have been increasingly
sidelined from the political debate surrounding the debt crisis
over the last few months,” Cailloux said. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet walked out of a meeting of euro-region finance
ministers meeting earlier this month because he was upset over
talk of a voluntary restructuring, the Financial Times reported
today, citing people familiar with events at the meeting.  The ECB is concerned that allowing  Greece  to renege on some
of its obligations would create similar expectations for other
indebted euro-area nations such as Portugal and Ireland, which
followed Greece in accepting aid. The ECB has bought 76 billion
euros of bonds of fiscally stressed countries in the past year
and may suffer along with private investors in a restructuring.  A Greek debt restructuring would “jeopardize all of
Europe,” Bini Smaghi said in Milan yesterday. It would have a
“dire” impact on Greece’s banks and economy, ECB Vice
President  Vitor Constancio  told reporters in Brussels.  Greek banks’ reliance on ECB liquidity totaled 87.9 billion
euros at the end of March. Greece’s government and central bank
will extend 30 billion euros in further guarantees, contingent
on banks detailing how they will wean themselves off ECB money.  “The ECB is playing its last card but unfortunately the
restructuring debate has now been so politicized that it seems
the decision is now somewhat remote from the central bank,”
Cailloux said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeffrey Donovan  at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling@bloomberg.net . 