-- 
Hedge Fund Charity RICE Seeks More for Kids in Slums, Hospital

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 
2011-05-19T02:01:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/hedge-fund-charity-rice-seeks-donations-for-kids-in-asia-s-slums-hospital.html
Returns Invested in Children and
Education, the charity set up by  Asia ’s hedge-fund industry, is
stepping up efforts to raise money for minors, including the
sick in Cambodia and those growing up in  India ’s brothels.  The charity, known as RICE and started by hedge fund
managers in 2006, is seeking to widen the source of its funds
and allocate the money to projects in Asia after registering in
Singapore as an International Charitable Organization in
September, said Paul Smith, the international chief of its fund-
raising committee. It previously raised money privately and was
funded mainly by a few wealthy individuals, Smith said.  Asia-focused  hedge funds  attracted more than $3.6 billion
in net new capital in the first quarter, taking the industry’s
total assets to $88 billion as investors returned after the
global financial crisis, lured by the region’s economic growth
that is outstripping the rest of the world, according to the
Chicago-based research firm Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “It’s a successful industry that generates a lot of cash
and a lot of the profitability of the industry comes because
it’s here in Asia,” said  Peter Douglas , a RICE director who is
principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises investors
seeking to allocate money to hedge funds and runs a wealth-
management business. “There’s a genuine need to give back and a
means to do so.”  RICE  will seek donation pledges at the Asian hedge-fund
awards dinner organized by  Eurekahedge Pte , an industry data
provider, in Singapore tomorrow, said Smith, who is also chief
executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset manager and hedge
fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.  Fund Raising Events  The charity is in the later stages of registering in  Hong
Kong  and is preparing “a series of small fund-raising events”
there, Smith said. RICE targets the “average person” working
in a hedge fund or in an industry service provider, he said.  The Robin Hood Foundation gala, Wall Street’s largest
single-evening fundraising event, had Lady Gaga onstage and took
in $47.4 million at its annual New York dinner this month. Its
board includes Paul Tudor Jones II, Greenlight Capital’s  David
Einhorn  and SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Steven A. Cohen. Absolute
Return for Kids, the charity founded by Arpad Busson, raised
14.1 million pounds ($23 million) about a year ago in  London .  Smith said he “would be very happy” if RICE were to raise
at least $100,000 this year.  The charity raised a “biggish five-figure sum” at a
dinner in Singapore in March for a group of 16 at the home of
Stephen Diggle, who set up Vulpes Investment Management in April
after closing Artradis Fund Management Pte, said Douglas.  Full Allocation  RICE’s administration costs are funded by members of its
committees, and “every cent” it gets from donors goes to the
projects that it supports, Smith said.  Tessa Boudrie, who previously did projects for Unicef and
Oxfam, sources for recipients, conducts due diligence on their
organizations, and monitors projects focusing on children and
education for the hedge-fund charity. RICE has supported
projects in  Indonesia , Nepal,  Thailand ,  Cambodia ,  Laos  and  China ,
Boudrie said. She declined to disclose the amount the charity
has raised so far.  The charity focuses on organizations that aren’t yet funded
by big donors, said Hong Kong-based Boudrie.  The next allocation will probably go mainly to India,
Boudrie said. The organizations that the social worker has
visited this year include one that helps children growing up in
the brothels of Mumbai’s slums and another that provides night
education for minors who work during the day, she said.  RICE is also considering allocating more funds to Siem
Reap-based Angkor Hospital for Children, which provides
pediatric care and offers education for Cambodian health workers,
Boudrie said.  “In hedge fund terms you use the word ‘seed funding,’”
she said. “It’s a bit like that, to ensure that these
organizations can grow to a level where they can receive funding
from the bigger donors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  