-- 
Egypt’s Dollar-Bond Yield, Credit Risk Decline on U.S. Aid Expectations

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 
2011-05-19T18:00:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/egypt-s-dollar-bond-yield-credit-risk-decline-on-u-s-aid-expectations.html
Egypt ’s 10-year dollar bonds rose,
pushing yields to the lowest level since January, and the
country’s credit risk dropped as U.S. President  Barack Obama 
pledged to provide debt relief of as much as $1 billion.  The yield on the 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020
tumbled 32 basis points to 5.88 percent at 1:38 p.m. in New
York, the lowest since Jan. 25, according to Bloomberg composite
prices. The cost of protecting government debt against default
for five years fell 30 basis points before Obama’s address at
the State Department in  Washington  to 322, according to CMA
prices in  London .  Obama announced the cancellation of up to $1 billion in
debt, about a third of what Egypt owes the U.S., and said his
administration will be working to create enterprise funds for
the most populous Arab country. Egypt’s President  Hosni Mubarak 
was ousted in February after a popular revolt.  “We’re seeing a definite trend of unilateral and
multilateral support for the new Egyptian government and the
political process,” said Cape Town-based Antoon De Klerk, an
Africa economist who helps manage $5 billion in emerging-market
debt at Investec Asset Management. “So it makes sense that the
market would grind lower.”  Obama said a “new chapter in American diplomacy” is
opening with democracy movements sweeping across the Middle East
and North Africa and the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  “The events of the past six months show us that strategies
of repression and strategies of diversion will not work
anymore,” Obama said.  Budget Deficit  Rising borrowing costs and a budget deficit the government
expects to widen to a six-year high have prompted Egypt’s
 Finance Minister  Samir Radwan to turn to the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  for as much as $6.2 billion of
loans. The ministry plans to sell 135 billion Egyptian pounds
($23 billion) in domestic debt this quarter, 15 percent more
than in the same period a year ago, according to an issuance
calendar on its website.  The North African country today fell 20 percent short of
raising the 6 billion pounds it targeted at a treasury bill
auction as yields rose on six-month and one-year notes.  The ministry sold 2.5 billion pounds of six-month T-bills
yielding an average of 12.605 percent, six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, higher than at an auction of similar maturity
bills last week. It sold 2.28 billion pounds of one-year notes
yielding 12.938 percent, two basis points higher than last week,
according to data on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  