-- 
Embraer E-190 Jets Need Checks for Metal Cracks, Brazil Regulator Says

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-05-20T00:57:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/embraer-e-190-jets-need-checks-for-metal-cracks-brazil-regulator-says.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s E-190 jets, flown by
carriers including  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , need more frequent
inspections after tests turned up cracks that may indicate a
structural flaw,  Brazil ’s aviation authority said.  Cracks were found after metal-fatigue checks in unspecified
“structural components” that could compromise the plane’s
integrity, the regulator, known as Anac, said in an
airworthiness directive on its  website . It set a 90-day deadline
starting June 16 to comply with the new procedures.  “Failure to inspect these structural components, according
to the new tasks, thresholds and intervals, could prevent a
timely detection of fatigue cracking,” Anac said. “These
cracks, if not properly addressed, could adversely affect the
structural integrity of the airplane.”  The E-190 can carry as many as 114 passengers and is
operated by airlines such as US Airways,  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU) ,
Air Canada and Brazil’s Azul Linhas Aereas Brasileiras, founded
by former JetBlue Chairman David Neeleman. Sao Jose Dos Campos,
Brazil-based Embraer has delivered 332 of the jets.  Embraer “is aware of the matter and evaluates a solution
to comply with this directive by June 16,” a press officer said
in an e-mail on condition of anonymity, citing policy at the
world’s fourth-largest commercial planemaker.  Embraer rose 0.93 percent to 12.97 reais today in Sao Paulo
trading.  Air Canada, JetBlue  Air Canada found “no anomalies” in inspections of its E-
190s, said Angela Mah, a spokeswoman. The airline has 45 of the
planes, according to its website.  JetBlue also has completed inspections of its E-190s, said
Sebastian White, a spokesman for the New York-based airline.  “We are fully compliant and have seen no operational
impact,” he said in an e-mailed statement. JetBlue operated 45
of the planes at the end of 2010, according to a regulatory
filing.  Azul will meet Anac’s deadline, and the change in
maintenance procedures is “perfectly compatible with present
operations,” the carrier said in an e-mailed statement. It has
10 E-190s, according to the Ascend Online Fleets database.  A spokesman for New York-based  US Airways  couldn’t
immediately comment. Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways operates 15
of the Embraer planes, according to Ascend Online Fleets.  The twin-engine E-190 began flying in 2004. Embraer has 170
firm orders for the plane, according to the company’s first-
quarter earnings release.  Airlines regularly inspect planes for metal fatigue because
of the strain on parts from changes in atmospheric pressure in
flight and the jolt of landings.  Boeing Co. (BA)  said last month that fatigue checks needed to be
stepped up on older 737s after cracks developed sooner than
expected on a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  jet that split open in
flight. The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  required new
crack inspections on certain 737 models, covering about 175
planes worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in  Sao Paulo  at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  