-- 
England’s F.A. to Abstain in Soccer Body’s Election After Corruption Probe

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:15:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/england-s-f-a-to-abstain-in-soccer-body-s-election-after-corruption-probe.html
England ’s Football Association will
abstain from voting in next month’s presidential election of
soccer’s governing body after corruption allegations were made
about the bidding for the 2018 and 2022 World Cups.  FIFA President Sepp Blatter is running for a fourth term in
the June 1 vote, and is being opposed by Mohamed Bin Hammam, the
Qatari who heads the Asian soccer federation. A former employee
of the successful Qatari bid to host the 2022 event told the
Sunday Times newspaper that the Gulf state paid FIFA Vice
President Issa Hayatou and Ivory Coast official Jacques Anouma
$1.5 million each to choose Qatar over four other nations. The
men and Qatar deny the allegations.  “There are a well-reported range of issues both recent and
current which, in the view of the F.A. board, make it difficult
to support either candidate,” Chairman David Bernstein said
today in a statement on the F.A. website.  Former English F.A. Chairman  David Triesman  earlier this
month told a U.K. parliamentary committee that four other
members of the 22-man panel voting on the World Cup hosts asked
for favors. England came last of four bidders for the 2018
tournament, which was won by  Russia .  Blatter questioned the F.A.’s decision.  “It’s a little bit strange when the No. 1 association in
the world, which is the F.A., and they have in front of them two
candidates and they cannot make decision which one they could
support,” the 75-year-old Blatter told a small group of
reporters at FIFA’s headquarters in Zurich.  Blatter travelled earlier this month to  London  and made a
pitch to the F.A.’s chairman David Bernstein. He told Bernstein
that England had a great responsibility to soccer because the
sport was founded in the U.K.  England, along with  Northern Ireland ., Scotland and  Wales ,
continues to hold half the  voting rights  over soccer’s rule-
making body and the U.K. also holds one of FIFA’s eight vice
president roles.  “They have a lot of prerogatives and rights but it’s also
a responsibility for them and I think he got the message but I
don’t know if the whole board is the same way,” Blatter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  