-- 
Henkel Sees 5 Million-Euro Impact From Better Rating, CFO Says

-- B y   H o l g e r   E l f e s
-- 
2011-05-19T11:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/henkel-sees-5-million-euro-impact-from-better-rating-cfo-says.html
Henkel AG, the German maker of Persil
detergent, will save on interest costs after yesterday’s credit-
rating increase and doesn’t intend to seek further upgrades,
Chief Financial Officer Lothar Steinebach said.  "We can get short-term loans at an interest rate that’s 30
to 40 basis points lower, which will save us about 5 million
euros this year," Steinebach said in an interview in  Frankfurt 
today. The company isn’t seeking a better rating as it plans to
spend money as soon as next year on acquisitions, he added.  Henkel’s long-term rating was raised yesterday to A from A-
and its short-term rating was lifted to A-1 from A-2 by Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Services, citing the company’s improved
financial risk profile after two years without acquisitions.
Henkel Chief Executive Officer Kasper Rorsted said in a March
interview that Henkel has the capacity to spend as much as 3
billion euros ($4.3 billion) on acquisitions, and takeover
candidates include adhesive makers supplying the electronics and
aerospace industries.  The Dusseldorf, Germany-based company will also benefit in
2013 from the improved rating as major credit lines will mature
then, the CFO said.  Henkel hasn’t been able to raise prices as planned yet in
its main markets to counter rising raw-materials costs,
Steinebach said.  "Price increases for our home-care products haven’t been
sufficient so far," he said. The company has targeted price
increases of between 5 percent and 10 percent this year for the
segment.  Prices for products including Purex detergent and Renuzit
air fresheners declined 3.2 percent in the first quarter as
volume sold rose 4.8 percent, Henkel said May 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Holger Elfes in Dusseldorf at 
 helfes@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 