-- 
Meredith Whitney Trips Over Her Muni Default Tale: Joe Mysak

-- B y   J o e   M y s a k
-- 
2011-05-19T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/meredith-whitney-trips-over-her-muni-default-tale-joe-mysak.html
It’s no wonder  Meredith Whitney  wants
to distance herself from her prediction of the municipal
market’s meltdown.  “I never said that there would be hundreds of billions of
defaults. It was never a precise estimate over a specific period
of time.” So said Whitney on Bloomberg Radio on Wednesday
morning.  This is what she said on an episode of CBS’s “60 Minutes”
that aired on Dec. 19, 2010:  “You could see 50 sizeable defaults. Fifty to 100 sizeable
defaults. More. This will amount to hundreds of billions of
dollars’ worth of defaults.”  As for timing, “It’ll be something to worry about within
the next 12 months.”  What this sounds like is Meredith Whitney saying there will
be hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of municipal bond
defaults within the next 12 months. That sounds like a precise
estimate over a specific period of time. And that’s how it has
been reported and dissected in the press since then, with not a
word of protest from Whitney.  Until this week. Whitney told Bloomberg Radio host  Tom Keene  that she thought “60 Minutes” did a “really good job”
on the story. “But the risk is that they take bits and pieces
of an hour-and-a-half interview and certain portions are more
magnified than others.”  Whitney also later told Keene: “In the cycle of this
municipal downturn, I stand by it. But we never had a specific
estimate for that. That’s not the nature of our research.”  See It Yourself  So now we have Whitney standing by something she said she
never said, and unfortunately -- for her -- recorded for
posterity. You can watch the  video  for yourself on the CBS
website. I saw the original segment when it was broadcast and
have watched it several dozen times since then, just to make
sure I heard what I thought I heard: that there would be
hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of municipal bond
defaults this year.  I guess the call is still for hundreds of billions of
dollars’ worth of municipal bond defaults, but now over the
duration of “this municipal downturn,” whatever that means. So
far this year, 14 municipal bond issues totaling $605 million
have defaulted, according to  Richard Lehmann  of the Distressed
Debt Securities Newsletter. The record year for defaults was
2008, when $8.5 billion in municipals went bust.  What so astonished municipal market investors about the
Whitney call was its outlandishness -- “hundreds of billions”
in a market that hasn’t seen a year in which defaults reached
even $10 billion. Nobody denied that states and municipalities
were in heavy weather, on many fronts, and that some issuers
might default. Still, Whitney’s outlook, then and now, sounds
absurd.  Essence of Whitneyism  Whitney shed some light on the “60 Minutes” call earlier
this month at the  Milken Institute Global Conference . The
states, she said, were cutting aid to localities. “The local
municipalities have nowhere to go and their bias is to save
their constituents before they save their bondholders,” she
said.  This, then, was the underpinning of the Whitney
prognostication, which acted as a sort of punctuation mark to
almost two years of hysterical headlines, misguided commentary
and know-nothing blog posts about the municipal market. The
numbers didn’t add up because her prediction really wasn’t about
the numbers. It was about mass repudiation of municipal debt
obligations.  As arguments go, there’s a certain logic to it. Make a few
bondholders suffer, and some people may think you’re a hero.
Raise taxes, and lose the next election.  And yet, as arguments go, Whitneyism is an unsupported
assertion. In the modern era, there is little to suggest that
serious public officials will shirk their duty to bondholders.
The results would be catastrophic, far worse than any temporary
boon to taxpayers. Past performance is no guarantee of future
behavior, but there has been nothing to signal that mass
repudiation will become fashionable at any time, let alone
within the next eight months.  ( Joe Mysak  is editor of Bloomberg Brief’s daily Municipal
Market. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Joe Mysak in New York at 
 jmysakjr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  