-- 
Hermes Minority Investors Say Family Shouldn’t Shield LVMH From Takeovers

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 
2011-05-19T12:53:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/hermes-investors-object-to-lvmh-takeover-defense.html
Hermes International (RMS)  SCA’s founding
family shouldn’t have received a waiver of market rules allowing
them to shield the firm from takeovers, minority investors in
the luxury-goods maker told a French court today.  The Autorite des Marches Financiers erred in granting the
family permission to pool a 50.2 percent Hermes stake into a
holding company without bidding for the rest of the business, as
the regulator would normally require for a group with that large
a stake joining together, lawyers for minority investors said.  “There must be existing control” to warrant a waiver of
rules requiring an offer for all shares that would normally be
triggered by grouping together such a large block of shares,
lawyer Alain Geniteau told the court today. “The reality is
that there was no control of the Hermes company by the family,”
as demonstrated by the need to form a new structure to block
hostile bids.  The court has the power to uphold or quash the AMF waiver,
though not to issue a new ruling on the request. The family has
said it wants to keep Hermes, the maker of Birkin bags,
independent since  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC) , the
world’s largest luxury-goods maker, unveiled a 17.1 percent
holding in October. Paris-based LVMH now owns 20.2 percent of
the equity and, while it has said it’s not seeking control or a
board seat, the stake has prompted takeover talk.  The case hinges on whether the new structure alters the
company’s control, according to Hermes family lawyers and
Olivier Douvreleur, the AMF’s director of legal affairs.  ‘Well Known’  The family’s control of Hermes was “perfectly well
known to the market,” said Olivier Diaz, one of the Hermes
family lawyers, calling the new structure a
“reclassification.”  The court is expected to rule on the appeal Sept. 15.  The holding company, formed by 52 of the 53 members of the
founding family who directly own shares, controls more than half
the shares of Hermes and at least as many  voting rights . The
family sought permission for the takeover defense on the
condition they wouldn’t have to bid for the rest of the company.
They won approval from the AMF using the same argument that
doing so didn’t change the company’s controlling structure.  The regulator agreed, saying Jan. 7 that the stability with
which the family had managed its stake, its involvement in the
running of Hermes and willingness to entrust its shares to a
holding company showed it was acting as a family group seeking
to bring its shares under one roof.  The AMF is expected to rule in the coming months on whether
LVMH violated market-disclosure rules by using derivatives to
build its stake. LVMH won’t have to cut its Hermes stake
regardless of the decision, the regulator has said. The minority
shareholder group filed an emergency request with the Paris
court to block the family from exercising their votes at an
annual shareholder meeting, a move Hermes said in a statement
today was “destabilizing.” A hearing is scheduled for May 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 