-- 
Thermo Fisher Rises to Record After $3.5 Billion Phadia Buy

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-19T20:15:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/thermo-fisher-buys-testing-company-phadia-for-3-5-billion-2-.html
Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. (TMO) , the
largest maker of laboratory instruments, rose to a record high
in New York trading after agreeing to buy Sweden’s Phadia AB to
expand in testing for allergies and autoimmune diseases.  Thermo increased $2.64, or 4.2 percent, to $65.38 at 4
p.m., the shares’ highest value since they began trading on the
New York Stock Exchange in 1980. The Waltham, Massachusetts-
based company’s stock has gained 18 percent this year.  Thermo’s 2.47 billion-euro ($3.5 billion) cash purchase of
Phadia follows its $2.1 billion acquisition of Dionex Corp., a
maker of chemical analysis products, in December. The company is
bolstering its stable of diagnostics products while moving away
from services, and divested two medical-testing businesses last
month. Thermo will fund the Phadia deal with about $500 million
in cash and the balance with debt, Chief Executive Officer Marc Casper said in a telephone interview today.  “This is a company that’s executing on its plan,” Aaron Vaughn, an analyst at  Edward Jones  & Co. in  St. Louis , said in a
telephone interview today. “They said they’re going to use
their capital allocation to do M&A. They’re walking the walk
right now.”  Thermo is buying Phadia from Cinven Ltd., a London-based
private equity firm, and said it expects the deal to be
completed in the fourth quarter. Phadia will immediately add to
adjusted profit and contribute as much as 30 cents a share next
year, Thermo said in a statement.  Neat Fit  “It’s a very neat fit,” Peter Lawson, an analyst with
Mizuho Securities in New York, said in a telephone interview
today. “It fits in with their specialty diagnostic business and
it moves them deeper into allergy testing and autoimmune
testing.”  There have been 240 acquisitions of medical diagnostics
companies announced in the last five years, according to
Bloomberg data. The average disclosed size was $110 million, and
the average premium was 31 percent, the data show.  Thermo had been named as a potential buyer of  Gen-Probe
Inc. (GPRO) , a maker of diagnostic tests for gonorrhea and human
papillomavirus that earlier this month hired Morgan Stanley of
New York to find a buyer, according to three people familiar
with the matter. Today’s purchase of Phadia makes it unlikely
Thermo would pursue Gen-Probe, Edward Jones’s Vaughn said.  “From a balance-sheet perspective, that would stretch
 Thermo Fisher  too much at this point,” Vaughn said. He
recommends buying the company’s shares. “I’d be very surprised
if they were to pursue Gen-Probe.”  Gen-Probe Falls  Gen-Probe, based in  San Diego , dropped $3.79, or 4.4
percent, to $82.87 in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The
shares have gained 42 percent this year.  Cinven bought Uppsala, Sweden-based Phadia in 2007 in a
deal valuing the company at 1.29 billion euros. The buyout fund
manager said today’s deal gave it a return of more than three
times its original investment. Cinven acquired Phadia, formerly
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s medical-test unit, from investment firms PPM
Capital and Triton Advisers Ltd.  The firm, which is seeking to raise a new 5 billion-euro
fund, is aiming to return cash to investors after the financial
crisis almost halted private-equity deal-making for two years.
Last year, Cinven agreed to buy Sebia SA, a French maker of
medical diagnostic equipment, for about 800 million euros from
London firm Montagu Private Equity LLP.  Barclays Capital  acted as financial adviser and Wilmer
Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP provided legal counsel for
Thermo, according to the statement. Goldman, Sachs & Co. was
financial adviser to Phadia, and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer
LLP served as legal counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 