-- 
Madoff Trustee Says New York Mets Owners ‘Refuse’ to Return $300 Million

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-20T12:13:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mets-owners-hold-300-million-from-madoff-picard.html
A lawyer for the trustee liquidating
the estate of Bernard L. Madoff said Mets owners  Fred Wilpon ,
Saul Katz and the Sterling Equities Inc. partners “refuse to
return” $300 million in “other people’s money” received from
the jailed con man.  Trustee Irving Picard’s lawyer,  David Sheehan , made the
statement yesterday as part of a move to persuade a bankruptcy
judge not to dismiss Picard’s $1 billion lawsuit against the
Mets owners. In addition to $300 million in what he called
“fictitious profits,” the trustee is seeking the return of
their principal invested with Madoff.  Picard said in a bankruptcy court filing he had evidence
that the Sterling partners were “well aware” that Madoff may
have been fraudulent, including handwritten notes by one
partner, Arthur Friedman, that they were “shopping” for fraud
insurance to protect their Madoff investments.  A note from Friedman to Wilpon and Katz, dated Feb. 26,
2001, with “Madoff insurance” in the subject line, said
Friedman had been referred by American Securities, another
Madoff investor, to an agent at Frank Crystal & Co., according
to a copy included in Picard’s filing.  The fraud policy had a $500,000 deductible and cost 30
cents per $100, he wrote.  “The cost per $1.0 M = $3,000. If we were to insure
$200.0M the cost would be $600,000.”  ‘Define Fraud’  Scrawled at the bottom of the note was, “How to define
fraud. get Robt Duran here.”  Friedman again explored fraud insurance, with insurance
broker Robert Duran of Frank Crystal, after a Barron’s article
questioning Madoff’s investment strategy circulated among the
Sterling partners, Picard said.  The Sterling partners, who had $400 million with Madoff at
the time, told Picard their inquiries about fraud insurance were
irrelevant as they never bought any, according to Picard’s
filing.  The court filing “recklessly rehashes the same fictitious
claims” from the trustee, Sterling said yesterday in a
statement. “He has no evidence, and no witnesses, to support
his baseless claims.”  Picard said his case against Sterling and its partners
stems from a bankruptcy-law concept of good faith. The concept
doesn’t require that those sued acted illegally or knew they
were dealing with a  Ponzi scheme , he said.  ‘Blind Eye’  “Under bankruptcy law, a defendant did not act in good
faith if what it knew about BLMIS gave it a reason to inquire
further, but instead it turned a blind eye and continued to take
money from an enterprise it should have known might be a
fraud,” he said in a statement. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC was Madoff’s investment firm.  Asking a judge in March to dismiss the Picard suit, the
Sterling partners said they weren’t professional investors and
saw no warning signs.  Picard’s calculation that the Sterling partners and
companies made $300 million in false profit from the Ponzi
scheme ignored their Madoff accounts that had net losses, they
said. After losses, Sterling’s fake profit was about $150
million over 25 years, according to the filing.  According to Picard, Peter Stamos, who ran the Sterling
Stamos hedge fund and was part of the Mets owners’ inner circle,
“repeatedly warned” that Madoff’s results were “too good to
be true.”  The trustee ignored Stamos’s testimony under oath that he
assumed Madoff was “honorable” and a “legend” in the hedge
fund industry, Sterling said in its filing. According to
Sterling, Picard cited an e-mail that referred to Madoff as a
“scam,” although Stamos had testified that he couldn’t recall
ever describing Madoff that way.  Trusted Friend  In yesterday’s filing, Picard cited additional e-mails from
Stamos and reiterated his claims that the Mets owners should
have suspected Madoff’s fraud. He deemed it “implausible” that
the owners and operators of a baseball franchise, a sports
entertainment network and real estate properties, “are
unsophisticated investors who were duped by a trusted friend.”  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-ap-1789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 