-- 
EU’s Sugar Shortage Leads to 70% Price Increase, Rabobank Says

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:43:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/eu-s-sugar-shortage-leads-to-70-price-increase-rabobank-says.html
A shortage of sugar in the European
Union has caused prices in some member states to rise as much as
70 percent this year, according to Rabobank International.  The domestic price for sugar delivered in the second-
quarter is ranging between 600 euros ($854) a metric ton and 850
euros a ton for new contracts, up from 499 euros a ton in
January, the bank said in a report e-mailed today.  “There are signals of large price increases in at least
 Portugal ,  Greece , the Baltic countries and possibly other
structural-deficit regions of the EU,” analyst Gorjan Nikolik
said in an e-mailed response to questions today.  The EU authorized imports of 300,000 tons of sugar at zero
duty in March to ease shortages in the 27-nation bloc. It also
backed the sale of 500,000 tons of so-called out-of-quota sugar
into the domestic market. Under EU rules, local producers can
usually supply a limited amount of sugar to the market, and any
surplus must be exported or put to non-food use.  The bloc should permit another 200,000 tons of imported raw
sugar duty-free because of the shortage, the European Sugar
Refiners’ Association said last month. The EU was facing a
deficit of 1 million tons before the bloc took steps to increase
supplies, according to Joao Pereira, the association’s chairman.
Rising prices in the international market and a lower European
reference price eroded EU sugar inventories, broker C. Czarnikow
Sugar Futures Ltd. said in a report in March.  “Some residents in  Poland  and the Baltic countries are
reportedly buying sugar from retailers in  Germany  to be re-sold
at a sizable profit in their domestic markets,” Rabobank said
in the report.  Poland will ask the EU to boost the sugar production quota
by 15 percent, either in one move or with the increase spread
over three years, Polish Farm Minister Marek Sawicki said on May
17.  White, or refined, sugar for August delivery fell $10.40,
or 1.6 percent, to $622.60 a ton by 2:56 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in
 London . That was the first decline in six sessions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 