-- 
EU to Decide on Nuclear Stress Tests by June, Oettinger Says

-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 
2011-05-19T15:09:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/eu-to-decide-on-nuclear-stress-tests-by-june-oettinger-says.html
The European Union will probably
agree on parameters for stress tests on nuclear power plants by
next month, EU Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger said.  The bloc is likely to reach an accord on the remaining
“two or three” points in the next few days, and the tests may
begin as soon as June 1, the commissioner said today at a press
conference following a nuclear energy meeting in Prague.  The EU wants to reassess safety risks after the Fukushima
nuclear disaster in  Japan . Oettinger wants the tests to include
man-made threats such as terrorist attacks, going beyond the
recommendation by the Western European Nuclear Regulators’
Association, which has said the checks should focus on
resistance to earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters.  The  Czech Republic  is already testing its nuclear and other
energy facilities for a potential terrorist attack, Prime
Minister Petr Necas said at the press conference. Individual
members of the European Union should remain in control of their
respective energy policies, he said.  The Czech Republic, which plans to add two nuclear reactors
at its Temelin power plant, is hosting a two-day nuclear energy
forum in Prague. Czech Industry Minister Martin Kocourek and his
French counterpart, Eric Besson, signed an agreement on nuclear
cooperation yesterday in Prague.  France ’s Areva SA is one of the three bidders for
construction of the Temelin reactors. The other bidders are
Westinghouse Electric Corp. and a Russian-Czech group led by ZAO
Atomstroyexport. Temelin’s owner, state-controlled CEZ AS, is
scheduled to pick a winner in 2013.  “Even though each candidate offers a different solution,
all three offer very high quality and are equal,” Kocourek said
last night after the signing of the agreement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  