-- 
European Stocks Climb; BP Gains, Pandora Slumps, Glencore Debuts in London

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-05-19T16:17:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/european-stock-index-futures-climb-glencore-shares-may-advance-at-opening.html
European stocks rose for a second day
as industrial stocks led gains on the benchmark Stoxx  Europe  600
Index after the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled that  interest
rates  will remain low.  Glencore International Plc was unchanged on its first day
of trading in London after it sold $10 billion of stock in its
initial public offering.  BP Plc (BP/)  climbed 1.6 percent as BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research advised buying the shares. Pandora
A/S, the Danish maker of jewelry, slumped 22 percent after
saying it has lifted prices globally for the first time in its
history because of the rising cost of silver and gold.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained 0.7 percent to 280 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London. The gauge has still fallen 3.8
percent from this year’s high on Feb. 17 as a selloff in
commodities and concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
derail the economic recovery overshadowed company profits and
government stimulus measures.  “The last 24 hours have certainly seen the ‘risk on’
switch flicked,” said  Ben Potter , a market strategist at IG
Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne . “For the first time in a long while,
participants are starting to talk about strong demand
fundamentals for commodities, which is an encouraging sign. It
feels like sentiment has definitely improved; people seem to be
talking about the driving forces in a much more positive
light.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in 16 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index gained 0.6 percent,
while Germany’s DAX Index rallied 0.8 percent. France’s CAC 40
Index rose 1.3 percent.  Fed Minutes  Minutes of the Fed’s April policy meeting said that talks
about an exit strategy from record stimulus measures don’t mean
monetary tightening “would necessarily begin soon.”  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said in an
interview in  New York  that the central bank may keep its
monetary policy unchanged until late this year, and that
declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to begin
withdrawing record stimulus.  A report showed fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week. Jobless claims
declined by 29,000 to 409,000 in the week ended May 14, Labor
Department figures showed today in  Washington . The median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a drop
to 420,000.  Stocks pared earlier gains as sales of existing U.S. homes
unexpectedly declined in April, indicating that the industry is
struggling to gain traction as the economy expands. Purchases of
previously owned homes dropped 0.8 percent to a 5.05 million
annual pace last month, the National Association of Realtors
said today in Washington. A 5.2 million rate was the median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey.  Global EPS  Global per-share earnings will rise 18 percent this year,
faster than an earlier forecast, amid stronger revenue growth
and sustained margins, according to Citigroup Inc.  Earnings per share, or EPS, are estimated to increase 11
percent in 2012 and 9 percent in 2013, analysts led by  Robert Buckland , Citigroup’s chief global strategist, wrote in a report
yesterday. The brokerage had predicted in September earnings-
per-share growth of 12 percent this year.  Dominique Strauss-Kahn , once considered a leading contender
to win the French presidency next year, resigned as head of the
 International Monetary Fund  after being charged with the
attempted rape of a New York hotel maid. He denied charges that
he attacked a 32-year-old woman at a Sofitel hotel in midtown
Manhattan on May 14.  Glencore, the world’s largest commodities trader, priced
its shares at 530 pence apiece in an initial public offering,
the company said. The shares were unchanged at 530 pence,
erasing gains of as much as 3.8 percent.  BP, ITV  BP gained 1.6 percent to 447.9 pence as BofA Merrill Lynch
said the shares may rally 31 percent with a price estimate of
680 pence.  ITV Plc (ITV)  jumped 4 percent to 69.7 pence as Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. raised its recommendation on the shares to
“outperform” from “market perform,” saying it expects a
strong second half to be driven by ITV’s exclusive rights to the
 Rugby World Cup .  Pandora slumped 22 percent to 199 kroner for the biggest
decline on the Stoxx 600 index.  Invensys Plc (ISYS)  slid 3.1 percent to 299.8 pence. Its shares
may be removed from the FTSE 100 Index following the initial
public offering of Glencore today, which is likely to be
included at its expense, according to a report from John Carson,
a London-based quantitative analyst at Societe Generale SA. The
shares fell even as full-year operating profit of 262 million
pounds ($423.8 million) topped the average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg of 248 million pounds.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA fell 1.5 percent to 55.15
Swiss francs after reporting full-year net income that missed
estimates as restructuring at a watch business crimped
profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in  London  at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  