-- 
Former BP Chief Hayward Said to Plan $1.6 Billion Oil Fund IPO in 3 Months

-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-05-19T14:11:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ex-bp-chief-hayward-is-said-to-plan-1-6-billion-oil-fund-public-offering.html
Former  BP Plc (BP/)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tony Hayward  plans to raise at least 1 billion pounds ($1.6
billion) in an initial public offering of an energy investment
fund, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The investment vehicle, backed by financier Nathanial Rothschild and veteran Goldman Sachs Group Inc. investment
banker Julian Metherell, will sell shares on the London Stock
Exchange in the next three months, said one of the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans are private. Hayward
is working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Credit Suisse Group AG.  The proposed fund has had expressions of interests for the
full amount it wants to raise and held talks with sovereign
wealth funds in Qatar,  Abu Dhabi  and  Singapore , the people said.  Hayward declined to comment.  Hayward, who resigned as BP CEO in October after the
company’s Macondo well blew out in the  Gulf of Mexico  last year,
is seeking to raise the funds to buy assets from the largest  oil
companies , which are selling mature assets and directing capital
at exploration. London-based BP has sold assets valued at more
than $25 billion to help pay for the costs of the disaster.  Former Petrofac Plc chairman Rodney Chase and James Leng,
former chairman of Corus Group Plc, may take board positions,
the people said.  While the fund has targets in different regions under
consideration, no decisions on what to pursue will take place
until the funds have been raised, the people said. It plans to
return money to investors if they don’t do a deal within two
years, the people said.  Rothschild’s Vallar  The as-yet-unnamed fund will be modeled on Rothschild’s
Vallar Plc, an investment vehicle that raised 707.2 million
pounds in a  London  initial public offering in July to buy mining
and commodity assets. Vallar agreed in November to invest $3
billion in Indonesian coal companies PT Bumi Resources and PT
Berau Coal Energy in a stock and cash transaction.  Before becoming CEO in 2007, Hayward headed BP’s
exploration and production division for five years, making him
responsible for all the company’s oil and gas fields worldwide.
He was part of the team that negotiated the TNK-BP joint venture
in 2003, creating  Russia ’s third-largest oil company. He joined
the TNK-BP board after stepping down as BP CEO.  Metherell, who retired from Goldman earlier this year,
advised U.K. clients including BP. Leng is a non-executive
director of TNK-BP and Hayward used to be an independent
director on the board of Corus, which was bought by India’s Tata
Steel Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stanley Reed in London at 
 sreed13@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeff St.Onge at   jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 