-- 
Mexico Quarterly GDP Grew Less Than Calderon Forecast

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a
-- 
2011-05-19T15:13:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mexico-quarterly-gdp-grew-less-than-calderon-forecast-correct-.html
Mexico’s economy expanded less than
analysts and President Felipe Calderon forecast in the first
quarter, as the  mining industry  and agriculture underperformed.  Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of a country’s
output of goods and services, grew 4.6 percent in the first
quarter from the same period a year earlier, the national
statistics agency said today on its website. Economists expected
GDP to rise 5 percent, according to the median of 17 forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey. GDP expanded a revised 4.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier.  Calderon, in a May 10 interview, said Latin America’s
second-biggest economy likely expanded 5 percent in the January-
March period as a recovery in the U.S. gains momentum. The U.S
economy, the destination for 80 percent of  Mexico ’s exports,
rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate from January through March
after a 3.1 percent pace in the last three months of 2010.  “Mining seemed to under-perform, but the sector has been
growing well in previous quarters,” said Mario Correa, chief
economist at Grupo Financiero Scotiabank Mexico, in Mexico City.
“Agriculture grew very little but this sector tends to under-
perform in the first quarter due to seasonal factors.” Correa
had forecast 4.3 percent first quarter growth.  Mining activity fell 2.5 percent in the quarter from a year
ago, while non-oil mining production declined 8 percent and oil-
related output fell 1.2 percent, the statistics agency said. The
service sector grew 4.4 percent, as trade expanded 9.5 percent.
Financial services and the insurance sector rose 2.65 percent.  Record-Low Rate  Record-low  interest rates  are helping fuel growth, Correa
said. Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens signaled last week
that he will keep the benchmark lending rate at 4.5 percent as
expectations for rising prices are “well-behaved.” Policy
makers have kept the benchmark rate on hold since July 2009.  The central bank last week maintained its 2011 inflation
forecast of between 3 percent and 4 percent after prices rose
3.36 percent in April from a year ago. In  Brazil , Latin
America’s biggest economy, inflation quickened to 6.51 percent
last month, breaching the upper limit of the government’s target
range for the first time since 2005.  Scotiabank Mexico expects the central bank to start
increasing the benchmark rate in January ending in December 2012
at 6 percent. The bank forecast Mexico’s GDP will grow 4.3
percent this year.  Auto Output  Mexican production of cars and light trucks, the bulk of
which is exported to the U.S., rose 21 percent in the first
quarter to 632,914 units, according to the nation’s Automobile
Industry Association. Remittances reached $5.1 billion in the
January-March period, a 5.6 percent increase compared with a
year earlier.  Same-store sales at Wal-Mart de Mexico,  Latin America ’s
biggest retailer, rose 4.3 percent in January and 1.8 percent in
February before declining 1.1 percent in March.  The peso rose 0.2 percent to 11.6794 per  U.S. dollar  at
11:10 a.m.  New York  time.  Calderon said May 10 in an interview at Bloomberg’s
headquarters in New York that he’s “very comfortable” with the
strength of the peso, which has appreciated 5.6 percent this
year, more than all other major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Mexico’s economy may grow 4.2 percent in the second
quarter, with a risk of slowing even more, due to uncertainty
over  Europe ’s debt crisis, the strength of the  U.S. economy  and
the behavior of commodity prices, said  Alejandro Cuadrado , chief
Latin America economist at Societe Generale SA, in a telephone
interview from New York.  The effect of the March 11 earthquake in  Japan  may also
affect output in the second quarter, he said.  “In the coming month we probably will see weaker support
from industrial production, manufacturing and auto production,”
Cuadrado said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  