-- 
U.S. Economy: Previously Owned Home Sales Unexpectedly Fall

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-19T20:13:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/existing-u-s-home-sales-unexpectedly-decrease-0-8-to-5-05-million-pace.html
Sales of existing U.S. homes
unexpectedly declined, manufacturing in the Philadelphia region
slowed and  consumer confidence  dropped, pointing to an economy
that is struggling to regain momentum following the surge in
energy costs.  Purchases of existing homes decreased 0.8 percent to a 5.05
million annual pace in April, the National Association of
Realtors said today in Washington. The Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia’s general economic index fell in May to the weakest
reading in seven months, and the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index slumped to a nine-month low, other reports showed.  Gasoline prices hovering close to $4 a gallon and rising
grocery bills may discourage American households from taking on
big purchases like houses just as manufacturing cools after
leading the economy out of the recession. Another report showing
claims for jobless benefits are retreating after an April surge
raises the odds any economic slowdown will prove temporary.  “We’re going through a soft patch,” said  Eric Green ,
chief market economist at TD Securities Inc. in  New York .
“Housing is just bouncing along the bottom. Job demand is real,
and we’re going to emerge past this soft patch.”  Stocks advanced, helped by the larger-than-forecast decline
in jobless claims. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2
percent to 1,343.6 at the 4 p.m. close in New York. Earlier,
stocks declined after the reports on housing, confidence and
manufacturing, combined with a worse-than-projected reading for
the index of leading economic indicators.  Worse Than Forecast  The median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected sales of existing houses would climb to a 5.2
million rate. Estimates ranged from 5.09 million to 5.40
million. Purchases reached a record 7.08 million in 2005, and
slumped to a 13-year low of 4.91 million last year.  As of March 31, about 5.6 million houses were either in
foreclosure or their owners were more than 30 days late in
making mortgage payments, according to Bloomberg calculations,
raising the risk that property values will keep falling. That
would make any sustained recovery difficult to achieve.  About 37 percent of all transactions last month were of
distressed properties, which were either in foreclosure or short
sales where a bank agrees to take less than the outstanding
mortgage balance, according to today’s report from the agents’
group. Cash transactions accounted for 31 percent after a record
35 percent in March, NAR chief economist  Lawrence Yun  said in a
press conference as the figures were released.  The Realtors group began tracking the monthly figure in
August 2008, and the share on a yearly basis before that was
around 10 percent, Yun has said.  Distressed Sales  “Existing-home sales continue to have a strong bent to
distressed sales and all-cash deals, which implies ongoing
weakness in prices,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch.  Manufacturers, facing a less pressing need to rebuild
inventories and supply disruptions following the earthquake and
tsunami in Japan, may also be slowing down. The Federal Reserve
Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index fell to 3.9, the
weakest reading since October, from 18.5 a month earlier.
Figures greater than zero signal expansion in the area covering
eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The report “points to a slowing, but not a dramatic
slowing, in manufacturing,” said Bricklin Dwyer, an economist
at BNP Paribas in New York. “The inventory rebuilding cycle has
tapered off and now we have a normalization,” he said, and
“Japanese supply-chain disruptions are likely reflected.”  Confidence Wanes  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 49.4
in the period to May 15, the worst reading since August, from
the prior week’s minus 46.9. A gauge of personal finances
plunged to the weakest level since October 2009, and a monthly
measure of economic expectations held at a seven-month low.  Retailers like  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  are among those seeing
sales drop as energy prices climb, pointing to a slowdown in
consumer purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy. The world’s largest retailer this week said sales at
U.S. stores open at least a year dropped 1.1 percent, the eighth
decline in a row. Customers are still struggling with economic
uncertainty, buying more generic items rather than their more
costly name-brand counterparts, executives said in a May 17 pre-
recorded call.  Customers are making fewer trips to stores because of the
increase in fuel prices, U.S. stores chief  Bill Simon  said on
the call.  Leaders Drop  The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators, a gauge
of the outlook for the next three to six months, fell 0.3
percent in April, the first drop in 10 months, the New York-
based group said. The measure was depressed by a pickup in
jobless claims that reflected temporary setbacks including auto-
plant shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan .  “Momentum is softening,” said Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Dutta. “The manufacturing sector is losing some of its
luster, softening alongside the broader economy.”  Another report today showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed first-time claims for  unemployment benefits  last week.
Applications declined by 29,000 to 409,000, according to figures
from the Labor Department. Economists projected 420,000,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey.  Applications for unemployment benefits surged last month
due to events that seasonal variations failed to take into
account, such as a late school holiday in New York, a new
emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto shutdowns caused
by the disaster in Japan, the Labor Department has said.  Claims “are unwinding the run-up in April,” said Michael Englund, chief economist at Action Economics LLC in Boulder,
 Colorado . “The labor market is slowly improving. It allows
slow, but positive growth in  consumer spending .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  