-- 
MF Global Posts Loss as Legal, Operational Costs Hurt Profit

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-05-19T21:27:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mf-global-posts-loss-as-legal-and-operational-costs-hurt-profit.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MF) , the futures
and options broker that’s transforming into an investment bank,
posted a net loss for the eighth time in the last nine quarters
as restructuring costs and legal reserves eroded profit.  The company’s fourth-quarter loss narrowed to $51.5
million, or 31 cents a share, compared with $96.5 million, or 78
cents, a year earlier, the New York-based company said in an e-
mailed statement. Excluding severance, restructuring, legal and
other costs, MF Global earned 5 cents a share for the period
ended March 31, meeting the average estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Jon Corzine , the former governor of
 New Jersey  who ran Goldman Sachs Group Inc. from 1994 to 1999,
wants to remake MF Global into a mid-size investment bank by
2015. Employee productivity rose 38 percent and trading with the
firm’s money, both initiatives set by Corzine, helped drive
revenue up 22 percent compared with a year ago, MF Global said.  “Undoubtedly, measured risk-taking will be part of our
buildout to an investment bank,” Corzine said on a conference
call with analysts today. He said the firm will be profitable on
an unadjusted basis by the second half of its fiscal year, the
period ended March 2012.  While the size of MF Global’s loss was disappointing, “the
strength of revenues was a clear positive and points to MF
seeing results from new hires and new desks,” Chris Allen, an
analyst with Evercore Partners Inc., wrote in a note to clients
today. Allen estimated MF Global would earn 6 cents a share and
rates the stock “overweight.”  Stock Falls  MF Global dropped 11 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $7.85 in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined
3.3 percent in the past year.  Net revenue rose to $292.5 million from $240.5 million a
year earlier, MF Global said. Growth areas for the company
include trading in mortgages, corporate credit and commodity
derivatives, Corzine said on the conference call.  About 1,000 MF Global employees have left the firm in the
last year, while about 600 replacements have been hired. Asked
if the new employees had one-year or multiyear pay guarantees,
Corzine said, “Multiyear situations are not a part of our
bringing people on.” The new hires “reflect a dramatic
upgrading and repositioning of our people,” he said.  The quarterly loss included pretax charges of $34.1 million
for legal reserves and $14.3 million for restructuring that the
company excluded from its adjusted earnings. Earlier this month,
MF Global said its Paris and Zurich offices would be
consolidated into its London and Geneva operations.  MF Global stock began a slide in 2008 that wiped out $3
billion in shareholder equity. The decline began after it was
revealed that an employee in its Memphis office lost $141.5
million through unauthorized trades. Corzine said the firm was
progressing with upgrading its operational risk management.  “Making sure you don’t have the kind of car crash this
organization had a few years ago is essential,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  