-- 
FBI Wants Unabomber’s DNA for Tylenol Probe

-- B y   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-05-19T15:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/fbi-wants-unabomber-s-dna-for-tylenol-probe.html
The FBI is seeking DNA from Unabomber
Theodore Kaczynski, who’s serving a life sentence for killing
three people with homemade bombs, in connection with the 1982
Tylenol poisonings  Seven people in the  Chicago  area died, and thousands of
bottles of the over-the-counter painkiller were withdrawn. The
case was never solved.  Kaczynski made the disclosure in court papers in an effort
to stop an auction of his belongings now in progress. It was
confirmed today by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  “As part of our re-examination of the evidence developed
in connection with the 1982 Tylenol poisonings, we have
attempted to secure DNA samples from numerous individuals,
including  Ted Kaczynski ,” the agency said today in a statement.
“To date, Mr. Kaczynski has declined to voluntarily provide
this sample.”  Kaczynski said in a handwritten court document that prison
personnel told him the Chicago office of the  FBI  “wanted a
sample of my DNA to compare with the partial DNA profiles
connected with a 1982 event in which someone put potassium
cyanide in Tylenol.”  “I have never even possessed any potassium cyanide,”
wrote Kaczynski, 68, a former mathematics professor.  Kaczynski, who grew up in the Chicago area, said he refused
to surrender a sample unless “the FBI would satisfy a certain
condition that is not relevant here.”  DNA Request  Kacyzinski wrote that two prison officers approached him on
April 27 and told him the FBI would seek a court order unless he
voluntarily gave a DNA sample.  He cited the visit in his attempt to prevent the auctioning
of his belongings, asking federal courts in  San Francisco  and
Sacramento,  California , to keep until his death some of the
things seized from his Montana cabin when they arrested him in
1996.  He wants the government to keep all his journals, which
“may provide evidence as to my whereabouts and activities in
1982,” for example.  Assistant U.S. Attorney David Shelledy, who represented the
government in the auction case, said in an e-mail, “We will not
comment further on the investigation” Kaczynski mentioned.  In court papers responding to Kaczynski’s motion, Shelledy
wrote, “Kaczynski has not been indicted” in the Tylenol case,
and “no such federal prosecution is currently planned.”  Possible Evidence  Kaczynski wrote that some of the items the government is
auctioning could “turn out to be important” in resolving
whether he had anything to do with the poisonings.  DNA testing, he said, might cast suspicion on innocent
people because 1 percent to 5 percent of Americans share partial
profiles.  He also asked that everything he wrote in code be withheld
from the sale, because that’s how he wrote when describing his
illegal acts.  Neither court ruled on the auction, which started yesterday
and will end June 2.  Kaczynski attended high school in Evergreen Park in
suburban Chicago. He graduated from Harvard College, then got
master’s and doctorate degrees from the  University of Michigan .  Tracked and caught  by the FBI, he pleaded guilty in 1998 in
Sacramento, California, to 13 charges. They included allegations
growing from four Sacramento-area explosions that left two men
dead and accusations related to a third death, in  New Jersey ,
the  Associated Press  reported at the time.  Case Still Open  The Tylenol case was being examined by grand juries in two
Illinois counties in January 2010, the  Chicago Tribune  reported,
citing people familiar with the investigation. DNA was taken
from one suspect after a court order, the Tribune said.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , maker of the drug, was viewed as a
“hero” for withdrawing 31 million bottles of Tylenol and
offering replacements in tablet form, which was safer,  according
to  the New York Times.  Bill Price , a J&J spokesman, declined to comment in an e-
mail today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 