-- 
Fed’s Dudley Says ‘Moderate’ Economic Recovery Is Falling Short of Goals

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-05-19T14:33:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/fed-s-dudley-says-moderate-economic-recovery-is-falling-short-of-goals.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President  William Dudley  said the central bank is falling short
of its goals because of the modest pace of the recovery, with
unemployment too high and headline inflation likely to ease.  “The recovery remains moderate and we still have a
considerable way to go to meet the Fed’s dual mandate of full
employment and price stability,” Dudley said today in a speech
in New Paltz, New York.  Fed officials are considering how quickly to begin an exit
from record stimulus after purchasing a total of $600 billion in
U.S. Treasuries by the end of June. They are also discussing a
strategy for how to remove stimulus, with a majority favoring
ending the policy of reinvesting proceeds from maturing
securities first before raising  interest rates  or selling
assets, minutes of their April 26-27 meeting showed yesterday.  Inflation of more than 3 percent is “somewhat above the
desired level” and has been pushed higher by rising commodities
prices, Dudley said during a two-day tour of the Hudson River
Valley. “It is noteworthy, however, that even with the sharp
rise in oil and food prices over the past year -- and
notwithstanding the more recent drops -- there has been limited
pass-through into the prices of other goods and services.”  Gauges of  core inflation , excluding food and energy,
“remain below levels consistent with our mandate for price
stability,” he said. If commodities prices stabilize or fall,
“I would expect headline inflation to move back to a more
mandate-consistent rate.”  Still Stable  Measures of the public’s view of inflation “remain
stable,” Dudley said, adding “it is critical that we ensure
that inflation expectations do not become unmoored.”  In response to audience questions, Dudley said the Fed has
had a “difficult” time in promoting employment growth and that
while the central bank’s bond purchase program was not “a
panacea,” it has had a positive impact on jobs.  Dudley said he is confident the Fed will achieve  price
stability  even in the face of a rising federal deficit.  “Regardless of what happens in  Washington , we are going to
do our job” and keep inflation in check, he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and other policy makers last
month reduced their forecasts for U.S. growth this year after
the economy slowed in the first quarter, while increasing
estimates for inflation excluding food and energy prices.  The consumer-price index increased 3.2 percent in the 12
months ended April, the biggest year-over-year gain since
October 2008, figures from the Labor Department showed May 13.
The index excluding food and energy rose 1.3 percent from April
2010, the most since February 2010.  ‘Transitory’ Increase  Dudley’s view echoed Bernanke, who said last month he
expects inflation resulting from higher commodities prices to be
“transitory.”  Weakness in growth in the first quarter was probably
temporary and was caused by lower  consumer spending  due to
higher gas and food prices, Dudley said. He said he was
encouraged by the latest report on employment.  The Labor Department said May 6 the economy added 244,000
jobs in April with non-government employers added 268,000 jobs,
the best month for the private sector of the economy since 2006.
Other job market data remain weak, as the  unemployment rate  has
been stuck near 9 percent or higher for 25 months.  Still, “unemployment remains unacceptably high” and
“even if the economy added 300,000 jobs per month from now on,
we would likely still have considerable labor market slack at
the end of 2012.”  ‘Downside Risks’  The New York Fed leader said “downside risks” to growth
included the effect on food and energy prices on households,
declining  home prices  and the effect of lower  government
spending  on growth.  The economy grew at a 1.8 percent pace in the first quarter
of 2011, according to Commerce Department data.  Growth will pick up to 3.3 percent in the current quarter
and 2.7 percent for the year, according to the median of 67
economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Steve Matthews  in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  