-- 
Fed’s Evans Says ‘Slow Progress’ in Economy Justifies Maintaining Stimulus

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-05-19T19:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/fed-s-evans-says-slow-progress-in-economy-justifies-maintaining-stimulus.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
President  Charles Evans  said improvements in the economy, labor
market and the outlook for inflation aren’t sufficient for the
Fed to begin pulling back record monetary stimulus.  “Slow progress in closing resource gaps and a medium-term
outlook for inflation that is too low lead me to conclude that
substantial policy accommodation continues to be appropriate,”
Evans said today in a speech in Chicago.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and the  Federal Open Market
Committee  plan to complete a $600 billion bond purchase program
in June while holding interest rates “exceptionally low” for
an “extended period,” according to a Fed statement last month.
They have yet to settle on a plan for withdrawing stimulus and
are divided about the timing.  “Despite recent improvements to the outlook, we are not
yet at that point” where the Fed would adjust the stance of
monetary policy, Evans said at the Association for Financial
Professionals Global Corporate Treasurers Forum.  Another regional Fed bank president,  New York ’s William C. Dudley, echoed that view in a speech today.  “The recovery remains moderate and we still have a
considerable way to go to meet the Fed’s dual mandate of full
employment and price stability,” Dudley said in New Paltz, New
York.  Revering Stimulus  Policy makers’ views have begun to coalesce around a
strategy to reverse stimulus by first ending their reinvestment
policy and later raising interest rates and selling assets,
according to minutes of the Fed’s April meeting, which were
released yesterday in  Washington .  Almost all Fed officials agreed that the “first step
toward normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of
principal payments on mortgage debt that began in August. A
majority preferred to sell the Fed’s securities after raising
short-term  interest rates , and most wanted to put asset sales on
a preannounced schedule while using their target interest rate
as an “active tool.”  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said in an interview
with Bloomberg News yesterday that the central bank may keep its
monetary-policy unchanged until late this year, and that
declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to begin
withdrawing record stimulus.  Evans said that given his economic forecast for the
economy, “I’m still going to be looking for accommodative
policy” at the end of 2011.  ‘Particular Elements’  “I continue to think accommodation is really important so
I’m not focusing as much on the particular elements of how we
would tighten,” he told reporters after his speech.  “I know that some people are concerned that exuberance is
coming back a little too quickly in certain market segments,”
though supervisors have a “stronger eye” on some prices, Evans
said in response to audience questions.  “I’m hard pressed to second guess the market pricing
mechanism” for such assets, he said.  In his speech, Evans said the economic outlook is
improving.  “Following a deep and lengthy recession, the  U.S. economy 
is now on firmer footing,” Evans said. “There are many reasons
to be optimistic.”  “Despite these clear signs of progress, the roughly 3.75
percent growth we anticipate for the next couple years is too
low to generate swift relief in the labor market,” he added.  Payrolls Grow  The Labor Department said May 6 that the economy added
244,000 jobs in April with non-government employers adding
268,000 jobs, the best month for the private sector of the
economy since 2006. The  unemployment rate  has been stuck near 9
percent or higher for 25 months.  Evans said it “could take quite some time” for
unemployment to return to the 5.3 to 5.5 percent range that most
Fed officials would like to see.  “Such a forecast for moderate real GDP growth and its
implications for slow improvement in the labor market lead me to
believe that accommodative monetary policy continues to be
warranted,” he said.  Evans also underscored the Fed’s message that commodity
price increases are likely to prove transitory.  “Inflation is a continuing increase in the price level
over time: A one-off increase in the price level is not
inflation,” Evans said. “Price increases have to be
sustained,” he said, citing data from 1981 to 2010 showing
“little systematic relationship” between  oil prices  and
overall inflation.  The national average price of gasoline has risen 38 percent
in the last year to $3.91 a gallon as of yesterday. Prices have
fallen 8 cents from their peak earlier this month.  Oil Prices ‘Volatile’  “Petroleum prices are quite volatile,” Evans said.
“Think about the past few weeks: Oil prices fell about $15 per
barrel in a matter of days early in May and have stayed down
since then.”  A lack of wage growth is also likely to help restrain
further increases in inflation, he said.  “Without rising wages and incomes, price increases may be
difficult to sustain -- and sustainability is an important
aspect of inflation.”  One caveat that would cause Evans to “reassess my
inflation outlook” would be if “medium term inflationary
expectations were to rise,” he said.  “If inflation expectations were to start to creep up
because of rising commodity prices or any other factor, the FOMC
would consider this important development and act accordingly to
keep inflation expectations well grounded,” he said.  In response to audience questions, Evans also noted that a
weak dollar poses some risk of “higher inflationary pressures”
as import prices rise and that he was looking at “how much of
that can be passed along” into other prices.  Evans, 53, has led the  Chicago  Fed since September 2007 and
is a voting member this year of the Federal Open Market
Committee. He has been among the FOMC’s strongest supporters of
monetary stimulus since last year. He represents a five-state
region that includes  Iowa  and most of  Illinois ,  Indiana ,
 Michigan  and  Wisconsin .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Chicago at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  