-- 
Fed Nears Accord on How to Exit Record Stimulus With Timing Still Unclear

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-05-19T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/fed-nears-agreement-on-how-to-exit-stimulus-with-timing-unclear.html
Federal Reserve policy makers neared
agreement on the sequence of tools they will use to withdraw
record monetary stimulus, with little accord on when to start.  The central bank should first end its policy of reinvesting
proceeds from maturing securities and later raise interest rates
and sell assets, majorities of policy makers said at their April
26-27 meeting, according to minutes released yesterday. The
caveat: Talks about the exit strategy don’t mean that tightening
“would necessarily begin soon,” the report said.  “It’s almost like planning for retirement but not knowing
when you’re going to retire,” said  Keith Hembre , a former Fed
researcher who’s now chief economist and investment strategist
in  Minneapolis  at Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees about
$205 billion.  The discussion shows how Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
his colleagues are trying to reassure investors that they can
manage an unprecedented effort to unwind a $2.6 trillion
securities portfolio and raise a near-zero benchmark interest
rate. Getting the timing right may determine whether the Fed can
contain inflation without unnecessarily harming economic growth
and employment.  “There’s a fairly stark division” among Fed officials
about when to exit, Hembre said. Still, he said there’s no hurry
among the Fed’s top three officials -- Bernanke, Vice Chairman
 Janet Yellen  and William C. Dudley, president of the Federal
Reserve Bank of  New York . Those three are “driving the boat
here.”  Dollar, Stocks  The dollar pared losses against the euro, while U.S. stocks
and 10-year Treasury yields extended gains after the release of
the minutes. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent
to 1,340.68 at 4 p.m. in New York, and the 10-year yield rose to
3.18 percent from 3.12 percent.  The minutes reflected the first detailed discussion of the
Fed’s exit strategy since the central bank started to buy $600
billion of Treasury securities in November. The purchases are
the second round of so-called quantitative easing, following a
$1.7 trillion program that ended in March 2010.  The timing of an exit got less discussion in April than in
the March 15 meeting, when policy makers differed over whether
to begin withdrawal this year. A “few” took the position on
each side, minutes of that meeting said.  Last month, a “few” members saw the “increase in
inflation risks as suggesting that economic conditions might
well evolve in a way that would warrant the Committee taking
steps toward less-accommodative policy sooner than currently
anticipated,” the report said.  First Step  Talks on the exit were deeper. Almost all officials agreed
that the “first step toward normalization” should be ceasing
reinvestment of principal payments on mortgage debt that began
in August, the FOMC said. A majority preferred to sell the Fed’s
securities after raising short-term interest rates, and most
wanted to put asset sales on a preannounced schedule while using
federal-funds rate increases as an “active tool.”  Policy makers agreed that the Fed’s securities portfolio,
set to reach $2.6 trillion next month, would be shrunk “over
the intermediate term” and return to “essentially only
 Treasury securities ,” the minutes said.  The minutes were the first to be released since Bernanke,
57, held his first regular press conference after the FOMC
meeting ended April 27. The Fed released the quarterly economic
projections of its governors and regional bank presidents the
same day. The forecasts were previously disclosed with a three-
week delay in the minutes.  Officials Divided  Officials were most divided in April over how and in what
order to use asset sales and interest rates to tighten credit.
Many of the policy makers who wanted to put sales on a
preannounced path said the pace should be gradual and could
still be adjusted based on the economic outlook, while several
preferred to use the pace as a “key policy tool” that could be
“varied actively.”  A few policy makers said asset sales should precede any
interest-rate increase, and a few others indicated both moves
should “commence at the same time,” the minutes said.  “They were just laying out the strategy but very clearly
not moving toward implementation,” said  Carl Riccadonna , senior
U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in New York.
“There is not a lot of conviction on the strength of the
economy as well as the upturn in inflation” in the minutes.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said any tightening
campaign should begin by shrinking the Fed’s balance sheet,
which could be done “passively” by not reinvesting maturing
mortgage-backed securities or by actual sales.  ‘Controversial and Undecided’  “Whether you would supplement that with actual sales is
controversial and undecided at this point,” Bullard said
yesterday in an interview before release of the minutes.
Interest-rate changes would represent “bringing out the big
guns” and likely come later, he said. Bullard indicated he
would favor shrinking assets “a fair amount” before raising
rates.  When officials met in April, crude oil was trading close to
its highest price since 2008. Inflation expectations, as
measured by the breakeven rate for five-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, had climbed to 2.41 percentage points from
1.73 points at the end of 2010.  Bernanke took several questions about inflation at his
press conference, saying that “ultimately, if inflation
persists or if inflation expectations begin to move, then
there’s no substitute for action.” He indicated that he wasn’t
concerned yet because “medium-term inflation expectations” had
“not really moved very much.”  Crude Oil Drops  Since that briefing, crude oil has dropped to $99.65 a
barrel from $112.76, while the five-year TIPS breakeven rate has
declined to 2.18 percentage points.  The decline may help validate the FOMC’s judgment in the
April statement that higher inflation from a rise in commodity
prices earlier this year will be “transitory.” The Fed’s
preferred price index, which excludes food and fuel costs, rose
0.9 percent in March from a year earlier, close to a five-decade
low of 0.7 percent in December.  U.S. central bankers aim for an inflation rate of about 1.7
percent to 2 percent, based on last month’s long-run economic
projections of Fed policy makers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  