-- 
Finance Executive Killed by Cyclist Recalled in Foundation Gala

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/finance-executive-run-down-by-cyclist-recalled-in-widow-s-foundation-gala.html
Stuart Gruskin saw his wife and twin
daughters for the last time at their Westfield,  New Jersey , home
one workday morning two years ago.  He commuted to his job as a senior vice president at
 Manhattan  advisory firm  Valuation Research Corp . and was run
down at lunchtime by a man delivering food on a bicycle. Gruskin
died a few days later at age 50 from brain injuries.  “The delivery cyclist was driving the wrong way,” said
Nancy Gruskin, his wife, in an interview at Bloomberg News
headquarters in Manhattan.  About a year later she started the  Stuart C. Gruskin Family
Foundation  in his memory, and tonight the organization will hold
its inaugural fundraiser at City Winery in Manhattan.
Entertainment will be the  Rick Cantor Band , which covers classic
rock-and-roll hits and is led by one of the family’s Westfield
neighbors.  New York  City Council member Rosie Mendez will be honored
with the foundation’s 2011 Visionary Award. Mendez introduced a
bill that became law this year requiring the city to compile
bicycle-on-pedestrian  incidents .  George C. Matthews, an executive at Eurohypo AG in New
York, also will be honored with the foundation’s Community
Impact Award for helping it promote its bicycle-safety campaign.  A 2010  study  by the New York City Department of
Transportation showed that while pedestrians accounted for 52
percent of traffic fatalities from 2005 to 2009, it’s unknown
how many died from collisions with cyclists.  “I feel like his death was not in vain,” Gruskin said.
“He was a person who would help others, and this is a way to
carry on his name.”  Safety Rules  The nonprofit has launched a program called  5 to Ride.org 
to encourage restaurants to educate their delivery workers about
bicycle safety rules. They include stopping at every red light,
riding in the same direction as traffic, staying off the
sidewalk and staying in one lane.  About 50 businesses have signed the pledge, including The
Odeon in Tribeca, Landmarc, Dorian’s Seafood Market on the Upper
East Side and ‘Wichcraft’s 13 locations in New York. Gruskin is
also working with  SeamlessWeb.com , a network of 6,500
restaurants in the U.S. and in  London  that employ delivery and
takeout workers, to adopt the 5 to Ride.org principles.  “We hope that eventually we will have 1,000 restaurants
that will adopt this,” Gruskin said. “We hope to take this
nationally, but one step at a time.”  (The Stuart C. Gruskin Family Foundation’s 2011 Inaugural
Fundraising Gala is tonight at City Winery, 155 Varick St. in
Manhattan, from 6 to 10. Tickets are $150 in advance, or $175 at
the door. Information: +1-646-278-6727 or
 http://gruskinfoundation.org/fundraiser )  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 