-- 
Florida’s Scott Takes On Texas for Top Business State

-- B y   J e r r y   H a r t   a n d   S i m o n e   B a r i b e a u
-- 
2011-05-19T21:09:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/florida-s-scott-takes-on-texas-for-top-business-state.html
Florida Governor  Rick Scott  squared
off against  Rick Perry  of  Texas  in a duel over which state is
the most business-friendly.  “Seven years is long enough,” the first-term Republican
wrote his counterpart after Texas was ranked the best state for
business for a seventh time in a poll by Chief Executive
magazine. “I am certain Texas’s days at the top are numbered.”  Scott, 58, a former hospital-chain executive, was elected
in November with a promise to create 700,000 jobs and abolish
Florida’s 5.5 percent company-profit tax. On Jan. 4, his first
day in office, he signed an  executive order  to freeze new
regulation. This month, the Legislature sent him a budget that
increases the amount of corporate earnings exempt from taxes.  “We have no personal income tax and are phasing out the
business tax, starting with eliminating it entirely for half the
businesses that paid it,” Scott told Perry in his letter,
released by his Tallahassee office today. “ Florida  is
definitely on the road to be No. 1. Thank you for giving us the
motivation we needed.”  Perry, 60, a third-term Republican, “would respectfully
say, ‘Bring it on,’” Katherine Cesinger, a spokeswoman in
Austin said via telephone today. The Texas governor touted his
own state after CEO magazine’s poll was released May 3.  ‘Successful Model’  The result is a “testament to our successful model for job
creation and economic prosperity,” Perry said in a  news
release . “I am proud of our state’s accomplishments and remain
committed to upholding principles like low taxes, restrained
spending, reasonable regulations and a fair legal system.”  California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom, a Democrat,
was among a group of elected officials and business executives
who traveled to Texas last month to learn how the Lone Star
State created 165,000 jobs over the past three years.
 California , with the largest U.S. workforce, lost 1.15 million
jobs in the same period, according to the trip’s organizer,
Assemblyman Dan Logue, a Republican.  Florida, the fourth-most-populous state, ranked third in
 CEO magazine’s poll  of more than 500 executives, up from sixth
last year. That’s wasn’t good enough for Scott.  “While we are grateful to move up three places, Florida
will not settle for third place,” he wrote.  Scott’s letter isn’t the first time he singled out Perry in
his rivalry with the second-most-populous state. In an  interview 
on PBS television Jan. 11, he said he emulates the governor.  “I always tell people, ‘I see Rick Perry in Texas, doing a
great job of  job creation ,’” he said. “I say, ‘Whatever he did
well, we’ve got to do a little bit better.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jerry Hart in Miami at 
 jhart@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Baribeau in Miami at 
 sbaribeau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 