-- 
For-Profit Colleges Fail to Put Words in Mouths of Lawmakers

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/for-profit-colleges-fail-to-put-words-in-mouths-of-u-s-congress-members.html
U.S. Representative  Danny Davis , a
Democrat from  Chicago ’s South Side, was surprised to see his
name in an October ad that criticized proposed regulations on
for-profit colleges.  Davis, who is black, supports the federal rules because he
says they will help protect black and Hispanic students from
going into debt and paying too much for worthless degrees. The
 Coalition for Educational Success , a for-profit college trade
group, said it put Davis’s name in the ad without his knowledge,
apologized and withdrew the ad.  For-profit colleges are clashing with minority lawmakers
and advocacy groups over student-aid rules that the Obama
administration has proposed to keep poor students out of debt.
While the colleges say they give black and Hispanic students
access to higher education, most minority lawmakers in the U.S.
House of Representatives voted to let the rules go forward in
February’s budget negotiations.  “The way the for-profits and their lobbyists point to their
supposed care for and support of low-income students and people
of color is, to me, offensive,” said  California  Representative
Maxine Waters, a Democrat and member of the Congressional Black
Caucus.  The  Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights , a
coalition of more than 200 U.S. advocacy groups for minorities
and the poor, and the  National Association for the Advancement
of Colored People  support the proposal, called the gainful
employment rule. Under the regulation, for-profit colleges would
lose access to federal student aid if they fail to meet
benchmarks for loan repayments and if graduates’ incomes are too
low to repay debts.  ‘Public Service’  Supporting for-profit colleges are such groups as the
National Black Chamber of Commerce, which represents 130 U.S.
chapters with about 100,000 member businesses. The  National
Urban League  has asked for a study of the rules’ impact on
minorities. The  Hispanic Leadership Fund , an Alexandria,
Virginia-based group that promotes “limited government,
individual liberty and free enterprise,” has also publicly
opposed the rules.  About 57 percent of students who attend U.S. for-profit
colleges are minorities, compared with 37 percent at public non-
profits and 33 percent at private non-profits, according to the
Education Department. For-profit college students, who represent
about 12 percent of U.S. college students, get a quarter of the
federal Pell Grant funds designated for the poor.  For-profit colleges “offer minority students opportunities
they don’t have at many traditional schools,” said  Harris Miller , president of the  Association of Private Sector Colleges
& Universities , a Washington-based trade group. “We really are
performing a public service that benefits a lot of lower-income
people, including minorities.”  Loan Benchmarks  Black and Hispanic lawmakers are crucial to the $33 billion
industry because minority students represent both a mission and
a business opportunity for the for-profit colleges, said Jarrel Price, an analyst at  Height Analytics  in  Washington . Poor
minority students have been underserved by the traditional
educational system, and support from their representatives in
Congress would show that companies such as University of Phoenix
parent  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL)  are filling an important gap, he said.  “It’s a key political group for explaining the mission and
risk profile of the industry,” he said in a telephone interview.  A study commissioned by for-profit colleges found that
programs serving 300,000 students might be closed or sanctioned
by the rules. More than 3 million students attend these schools
annually, according to the APSCU trade group. A revised version
of the Education Department’s regulations went to the White
House Office of Management & Budget May 2 for review before
becoming final.  Lobbying Budget  For-profit colleges doubled their annual spending on
Washington lobbying to at least $6.6 million in 2010 to head off
the Education Department’s rules. The lobbying touched off a
massive letter-writing campaign to the department, resulting in
a delay of the regulations.  Representative Alcee Hastings of  Florida , a Democratic
member of the Congressional Black Caucus, supports an amendment
to halt the rules. He didn’t return calls to his office seeking
comment.  While the amendment passed 289 to 136 in the House, all
three minority caucuses opposed it. In the Congressional Black
Caucus alone, members voted 30 to 10 against it with two
abstentions. The Senate voted down a similar measure and it was
later cut from a budget compromise between the Obama
administration, the House, and the Senate.  “For-profit colleges have rushed to paint the perspectives
of a few minority lawmakers as the view of all,” said Democratic
Representative Michael Honda of California, a member of the
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus, which voted in
favor of the Education Department’s rules.  Lanny Davis  At the forefront of the forces opposing the rules is Lanny Davis, a one-time special counsel to President  Bill Clinton . He
criticized the agency and Education Secretary Arne Duncan in a
May 4 press release for “secrecy” on the gainful employment
rules and for ignoring the impact on low-income and minority
students. He isn’t related to Danny Davis.  Six months earlier, Lanny Davis apologized to
Representative Davis for including the congressman’s name in the
Washington Post ad that criticized the proposed rules. At the
time, Lanny Davis was a lobbyist for the Coalition for
Educational Success, the trade group that paid for the ad. Davis
is no longer with the coalition, according to the group.  Headlined “Stop the Rush to Regulate: Minority Leaders Ask
Secretary Duncan to Reconsider Proposed Changes to College
Access Rules,” the ad said the tougher rules would “block access
to higher education and jobs for underserved groups.”  Ad Misrepresentation?  “African-American and Hispanic leaders voiced their
concern,” the advertisement said.  The ad quoted from a Sept. 8 letter Representative Davis
sent to the Education Department, which said that for-profit
colleges offer a “flexible” option for students whose schedules
conflict with those of traditional schools. The ad left out the
rest of Davis’s letter, which praised the proposal to toughen
restrictions on for-profit colleges as “an important step in
strengthening higher education and helping vulnerable students.”  Lanny Davis sent an apology Oct. 28 to Representative Davis
for the unauthorized use of his name in the ad. In a meeting a
few days later, Lanny Davis pointed out to Representative Davis
that his letter to the Education Department did make suggestions
for improving the proposed rules, and it was quoted accurately.  ‘Protocol Violation’  The failure to ask the congressman’s permission to use his
name in the ad was “a protocol violation, a lack of professional
courtesy,” Lanny Davis said in a telephone interview.  Representative Davis said the ad mischaracterized his view,
which supports the Education Department’s regulations.  Lanny Davis now lobbies for the  National Black Chamber of
Commerce . Minority lawmakers who support the Education
Department’s rules don’t know how many low-income students will
lose their student aid when the rules go into effect, Lanny
Davis said.  “They don’t understand the details and the fine print,” he
said. “I would change their minds if I were able to spend some
time with them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  