-- 
U.K. Shares Gain for Second Day; Glencore Debuts

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 
2011-05-19T16:12:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ftse-100-rises-as-glencore-starts-trading-rio-tinto-bp-lead-the-advance.html
(Corrects to remove direction of trading for Glencore in
headline.)  U.K. shares rose for a second day,
for the gauge’s largest two-day gain in a month, after U.S.
jobless claims fell more than expected and oil companies climbed
as investors bet that Chinese demand will escalate.  Glencore International Plc was unchanged after its first
day of trading in London after selling $10 billion of stock in
its initial public offering.  BP Plc (BP/) , which makes up 5.5 percent
of the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX) , climbed 1.6 percent as BofA
Merrill Lynch Global Research advised buying the shares.
 Invensys Plc (ISYS)  sank 3.1 percent.  The FTSE 100 rose 32.5, or 0.6 percent, to 5,955.99 at the
4:30 p.m. close in London. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  advanced 0.6
percent, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index increased 1.4 percent.  “Today is all about Glencore” said Simon Maughan, co-head
of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in London. “We expect it
to trade up to a billion shares and as a consequence of that
issue both finance and trading is concentrated in that space and
leaves everything else fairly quiet.”  In the U.S., Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard 
said in an interview in New York that the central bank may keep
its monetary policy unchanged until late this year.  A weekly report from the Labor Department in Washington
showed that fewer Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week, suggesting that last month’s
surge in claimants was temporary rather than an indication of a
weakening economy.  Glencore was unchanged at 530 pence in its first day on the
London Stock Exchange, erasing a gain of as much as 3.8 percent,
after selling $10 billion of stock in an initial public
offering. Demand for the stock overcame a decline in oil, nickel
and aluminum prices. The world’s largest commodities trader had
sold its shares at 530 pence apiece.  BP, Barclays Advance  BP, Europe’s second-largest oil company by sales, climbed
1.6 percent to 447.9 pence. BofA Merrill Lynch upgraded the
shares to “buy” from “neutral.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  rose 2.5 percent to 277.5 pence after
Berenberg Bank increased its rating on the stock to “buy” from
“hold”.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  gained 1.1 percent to
42.2 pence. Exane BNP Paribas initiated coverage of both banks
with an “outperform” rating.  ITV Plc (ITV)  jumped 4 percent to 69.7 pence as Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. raised its recommendation to “outperform” from
“market perform.” The brokerage said ITV’s exclusive rights to
the  Rugby World Cup , which starts in  New Zealand  in September,
will give the broadcaster a strong second half.  Invensys, Investec  Invensys Plc sank 3.1 percent to 299.8 pence even after the
U.K. maker of controls that help run Whirlpool Corp. washing
machines reported full-year net income that beat analysts’
estimates. Invensys, which retreated for a seventh day, may drop
out of the FTSE 100, following Glencore’s IPO, analysts at
Societe Generale SA wrote today. The company is one of the
smallest stocks in the index.  Investec Plc (INVP) , the South African private bank with a dual
London-Johannesburg listing, surged 5.4 percent to 487 pence.
Full-year profit climbed 21 percent to 420.5 million pounds
($680 million) as earnings from its wealth and asset-management
units increased, the company reported. Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Koseff said the dividend could rise further in the
current financial year.  Close Brothers Group Plc (CBG) , the 133-year-old British
investment bank, jumped 3.3 percent to 800.5 pence after
reporting a “sound performance” in its fiscal third quarter,
helped by a 4 percent increase in its loan book to 3.3 billion
pounds. Close Brothers’ asset-management unit made a “small
loss” in the quarter ended April 30.  Lamprell Plc (LAM)  soared 9.6 percent to 385.1 pence, its highest
price since September last year. The Douglas, Isle of Man-based
offshore engineering group said it will use a rights offer of as
much as 139.4 million pounds, debt and cash to acquire Dubai-
based oil-rig maker, Maritime Industrial Services Co. Oilfield
service company Petrofac Ltd. jumped 3.9 percent to 1,528 pence
after the shares was raised to “buy” from “hold” at Collins
Stewart Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Peter Levring} in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  