-- 
Japan’s Fukushima Reactor May Have Leaked Radiation Before Tsunami Struck

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a ,   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-05-19T10:21:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/fukushima-may-have-leaked-radiation-before-quake.html
A radiation alarm went off at Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima nuclear power plant before the
tsunami hit on March 11, suggesting that contrary to earlier
assumptions the reactors were damaged by the earthquake that
spawned the wall of water.  A  monitoring post  on the perimeter of the plant about 1.5
kilometers (1 mile) from the No. 1 reactor went off at 3:29
p.m., minutes before the station was overwhelmed by the tsunami
that knocked out backup power that kept reactor cooling systems
running, according to documents supplied by the company. The
monitor was set to go off at high levels of radiation, an
official said.  “We are still investigating whether the monitoring post
was working properly,” said Teruaki Kobayashi, the company’s
head of nuclear facility management. “There is a possibility
that radiation leaked before the tsunami arrived.” Kobayashi
said he didn’t have the exact radiation reading that would
trigger the sensor.  Officials at the company, known as Tepco, had earlier said
the plant stood up to the magnitude-9 quake and was crippled by
the tsunami that followed, causing the world’s worst nuclear
crisis since Chernobyl in 1986. The early radiation alarm has
implications for other reactors in Japan, one of the most
earthquake prone countries in the world, because safety upgrades
ordered by the government since March 11 have focused on the
threat from tsunamis.  Earthquake Risk  Many scientists have considered the possibility of damage
to Fukushima reactors from the quake, said Tetsuo Ito, head of
the Atomic Energy Research Institute at Kinki University in
western Japan. “Utilities should reinforce safety measures at
nuclear  power plants , particularly ones housing old reactors
like the Fukushima station."  The company’s shares fell 8 percent today to 358 yen.
They’ve  fallen 83 percent since the disaster. The cost of
protecting the Tepco’s debt from default rose to a record today,
according to data provider CMA.  Tepco this week released thousands of pages of documents
that highlight the chaos in the early hours of the disaster as
workers frantically tried to prevent meltdowns in three of six
reactors at Fukushima. They included pictures of whiteboards
with scribbled notes of times and events.  Among the documents, the pressure and water level inside of
No. 1 reactor inner vessel fluctuated after the earthquake hit
at 2:46 p.m. Most of the readings for the No. 1 reactor go blank
a little after 3:30 p.m. when the waves swamped the plant.  Venting Attempts  The company is still verifying the accuracy of the data,
Takeo Iwamoto, a spokesman for the utility, said. Tepco
submitted the documents to the Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency on May 16 after the watchdog requested them, Iwamoto
said. The files were released to the media to increase
transparency, he said.  The documents show that a little after 9 a.m. on March 12,
workers at the No. 1 reactor started trying to vent steam and
gas as pressure in the reactor exceeded design specifications.
The vent was partly opened manually at about 9:15 a.m. and
attempts to get it fully opened were abandoned about 15 minutes
later due to high radiation levels.  Workers in the control room then opened it by remote
control, only for it to keep closing, according to the
documents. A build up of hydrogen gas in the reactor building
then caused an explosion that blew out part of the structure at
3:36 p.m. the same day.  Attempts to vent gas at the No. 2 and No. 3 reactors
probably also failed and the pressure inside exceeded design
levels for their containment vessels, the records show. Gauges
in these buildings, which later were damaged by hydrogen
explosions, also failed.  Instrument Blindness  Reading radiation and pressure levels was the only way to
establish whether venting succeeded, Kobayashi said.  On May 15, or more than two months after the disaster at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, Tepco said conditions were worse
than expected in reactor No. 1 when it found all uranium fuel
rods had melted.  Two workers entered the Fukushima the No. 3 reactor
building to check radiation levels yesterday, the first time
they’ve been in since March 14, spokesman Takeo Iwamoto said by
telephone.  Yesterday it sent four workers into reactor No. 2 for the
first time since March 14 to measure radiation levels and assess
whether work can be done to fix gauges that will show the
condition of the core.  Beside radiation leaks into the atmosphere forcing about
50,000 families near the plant to evacuate, more than 10 million
liters (2.6 million gallons) of radiation-contaminated water
have leaked or been released into the sea.  Millions of liters of radiated water have also filled
basements and trenches at the station from leaking reactor
vessels and piping.  Japan ’s government in April raised the severity rating of
the Fukushima crisis to the highest on an international scale,
the same level as the Chernobyl disaster. The station, which has
experienced hundreds of aftershocks since March 11, may release
more radiation than Chernobyl before the crisis is contained,
Tepco officials have said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
小笹俊一 in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  