-- 
Full-Year Handset Sales May Miss Forecast, Gartner Reports

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-05-19T06:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/full-year-handset-sales-may-be-lower-than-expected-gartner-says.html
Full-year sales of mobile handsets
may be less than 1.8 billion units, missing earlier estimates,
 Gartner Inc. (IT)  said.  “The 13.3 million-unit growth in channel inventory, along
with some softness in demand from users in emerging markets
registered at the start of the second quarter, is leading us to
be cautious about sales in the remainder of the year,”  Carolina Milanesi , a Gartner analyst, said in a  report .  The research firm is cutting its full-year sales forecast
and expects unit sales may be between 1.79 billion and 1.795
billion, Milanesi said. That represents growth of about 12
percent from  last year’s shipments  of 1.6 billion units reported
by Gartner. First-quarter sales grew 19 percent to 427.8 million
units, driven by sales of smartphones that accounted for almost
a quarter of all handsets sold globally, the researcher said.  “Overall the earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  will have a
smaller effect on the market than initially anticipated,”
Gartner analysts wrote in the report. They forecast lower sales
by manufacturers to retailers and phone companies and flat sales
to consumers in the second quarter.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s market share declined 5.5 percentage points
from a year earlier to 25.1 percent in the first quarter as it
retained its position as the world’s largest handset maker by
end-user sales.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  moved up the rankings to fourth place
after Samsung Electronics Co. and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
displacing  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)   Nokia will try to prop up shipments of Symbian smartphones
by lowering prices in carrier-dominated markets while it
prepares its new line running Microsoft Corp.’s Windows Phone 7,
Gartner says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  