-- 
Galleon, Deutsche Bank, Smurfit, Madoff, Lehman, BTA Bank in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-05-19T10:23:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/galleon-deutsche-bank-smurfit-madoff-lehman-in-court-news.html
Zvi Goffer , a former deputy of
Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , employed corrupt
lawyers who passed tips on deals and used disposable mobile
phones to communicate, a prosecutor told a jury in  New York .  “This is a case about corruption, about traders who bribed
lawyers to get secrets from companies,” Assistant  Manhattan 
U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told federal court jurors yesterday in
his opening remarks. “Traders who then used this information to
buy stock and make millions of dollars.”  Goffer, 34, who left Galleon to work at Schottenfeld Group
LLC and then founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC, went
on trial with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael
Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at Incremental.  All three men are charged with securities fraud and
conspiracy, stemming from one of three overlapping rings tied to
Galleon, prosecutors said. They face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  “This man, Zvi Goffer, was the ringleader of that
scheme,” Fish said, pointing to Goffer. “He paid tens of
thousands of dollars in cash bribes for inside information.”  Fish told jurors they would hear wiretaps of telephone
calls Goffer made discussing the scheme with his co-defendants
that were secretly recorded by the U.S. He also said the jury
would hear from three cooperating witnesses who were
participants in the scheme, including Brien Santarlas, one of
two former Ropes & Gray LLP lawyers who pleaded guilty to
passing tips to another codefendant.  Fish said that when Goffer sought to get a job at Galleon,
he passed inside information he’d learned about a transactions
involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan Pharma Inc. to Craig Drimal, a
former Galleon trader. Drimal earned more than $6 million on the
deal, Fish said.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyer, William Barzee, said in his opening
statement to jurors that his client was actually fired by
Rajaratnam for his failure as a trader.  Barzee said Goffer based trades on research and by speaking
to analysts and listening to rumors prevalent on  Wall Street .  Barzee told jurors the government’s wiretaps are less than
1 percent of the telephone conversations actually recorded by
the U.S. He called his client a “braggart” and said Zvi Goffer
liked to exaggerate what he knew.  “It’s stupid, it’s immoral, it’s probably wrong,” he
said. “But it’s certainly not  insider trading  and it’s not
illegal. It’s what happens every single day.”  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  J&J Failed to Warn Parents About Motrin Risks, Lawyer Argues  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  failed to warn parents that its
Children’s Motrin and Children’s Tylenol pain relievers can
cause allergic reactions that leave kids blinded and burned, a
lawyer for the family of a girl allegedly injured by the drugs
said.  J&J officials had studies linking the pain relievers to a
drug reaction that can cause skin burns and eye damage and
didn’t provide warnings on the medicines’ labels, Keith Jensen,
an attorney for the family of Brianna Maya, told a Philadelphia
jury yesterday. Maya was left blind in one eye and suffered
burns over 84 percent of her body after taking Motrin and
Tylenol in 2000 when she was 3 1/2, Jensen said. She’s now 13
years old.  The pain relievers “destroyed her life before she was old
enough to understand” what was happening to her, Jensen said in
closing arguments in the trial of the family’s lawsuit against
 New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J.  “McNeil complied with every federal regulation and that’s
what the proof is,” Jones told jurors.  The panel will begin deliberating the case today after
Judge Nitza I. Quinones Alejandro instructs jurors about the
applicable law.  The case is Maya v. Johnson & Johnson, 002879, February
Term 2009, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia County
(Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Ex-IMF Chief Strauss-Kahn Seeks Court Review of Bail Denial  Former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-
Kahn is asking a second New York judge to release him on bail
after being jailed on charges he sexually assaulted and
attempted to rape a hotel maid in Manhattan.  Strauss-Kahn, who resigned his post today, has been held in
New York’s Rikers Island jail complex since he was ordered held
in custody at his arraignment May 16 before Judge Melissa
Jackson. In a filing today in state court, Strauss-Kahn said he
didn’t intend to leave the U.S. without court permission and
waived his extradition rights.  “In the event I fail to voluntarily appear in the New York
court for any such proceedings, I waive the issuance and service
of the warrant provided by law for my extradition from the
Republic of  France  or any other jurisdiction,” Strauss-Kahn
said in an affidavit filed in court.  A bail hearing is scheduled for today and may be heard by
State Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus.  Strauss-Kahn’s proposal includes a requirement that he be
confined to home detention 24 hours a day in Manhattan with
electronic monitoring, in addition to posting $1 million in cash
for bail, according to court filings. He previously surrendered
his French passport to the District Attorney’s Office. His so-
called laissez-passer travel document issued by the  United
Nations  will be given to his lawyers, who will turn it over to
prosecutors, according to the filing.  In denying bail, Jackson agreed with prosecutors that
Strauss-Kahn was a flight risk.  Erin Duggan , chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District
Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr., declined comment on today’s bail
hearing.  At the May 16 bail hearing, Benjamin Brafman, Strauss-
Kahn’s lawyer, asked Jackson to let his client stay with his
daughter, who lives in Manhattan.  Camille Strauss-Kahn is a graduate student at Columbia
University and lives permanently on the Upper West side of
Manhattan, according to yesterday’s filing.  For more, click here.  Smurfit Holders Ask Judge to Block $3.5 Billion Buyout Bid  Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. investors urged a judge to
block a $3.5 billion buyout of the packaging maker by  Rock-Tenn
Co. (RKT)  because it doesn’t provide enough for the company’s shares.  Smurfit-Stone directors didn’t properly shop around to get
the highest bid for the Chicago-based company and allowed Rock-
Tenn executives to include language in the deal to scare off
other potential suitors,  Stuart Grant , a lawyer for disgruntled
Smurfit-Stone shareholders, argued yesterday.  “This company is worth a heck of a lot more” than Rock-
Tenn’s $35-a-share offer, Grant told  Delaware  Chancery Court
Judge Donald Parsons at a hearing. Parsons said he would rule on
the investors’ request to block the buyout by May 20.  Rock-Tenn, based in Norcross, Georgia, agreed earlier this
year to buy Smurfit-Stone for about $35 a share, half in cash
and half in Rock-Tenn stock, according to court papers. The
combination would create North America’s second-biggest
containerboard producer after Memphis, Tennessee-based
 International Paper Co. (IP)   Third Point LLC,  Royal Capital Management LLC  and  Monarch
Alternative Capital LP , which collectively own about 9 percent
of Smurfit-Stone’s shares, have vowed to vote against the deal,
which the funds contend undervalues Smurfit-Stone. A shareholder
vote on the offer is set for May 27.  Smurfit-Stone’s lawyer countered yesterday that the
company’s directors weighed at least one other buyout bid for
the container company and forced Rock-Tenn officials to bump up
their offer several times.  “There’s no evidence that these directors fell down on the
job,” William Savitt, a New York-based lawyer for the company,
told Parsons at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware.  The Chancery case is Marks v. Smurfit-Stone, CA-6164,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington). The bankruptcy case was
 Smurfit-Stone Container Corp. (SSCC) , 09-10235,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
District of Delaware (Wilmington).  For more, click here.  Madoff Trustee Drops $212 Million Claims Against Feeders  The trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s firm agreed not
to pursue $212 million from two bankrupt U.S. funds related to
the Fairfield Greenwich Group, the biggest so-called feeder fund
in Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  As part of a settlement with the trustee, the funds,
Greenwich Sentry LP and Greenwich Sentry Partners LP, reduced
their claims against the Madoff bankruptcy estate and signed
over claims they had made against Fairfield Greenwich Group,
trustee  Irving Picard  said in a statement yesterday. Greenwich
Sentry cut its claim against the Madoff estate to $35 million,
from more than $140 million, and the other fund’s claim dropped
to about $2 million, from $2.5 million, he said.  “The agreements greatly further the interests of the
customers” of the conman, Picard said in a court filing
yesterday in U.S. bankruptcy court in Manhattan.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lehman Suit Belongs in District Court, Michigan Agency Says  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority, which
sued  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  in bankruptcy court over
derivatives transactions, said it is seeking to move its suit to
a higher court.  The Lehman bankruptcy judge’s interpretation of swap
contracts is “surpassingly broad” and requires U.S. District
Court review because it has ramifications for international
securities markets, the authority said May 17 in court papers.
The global over-the-counter derivatives market is valued at $601
trillion by the Bank for International Settlements.  The Michigan agency is “one of many” derivatives trading
partners of Lehman disputing who gets paid first on a swap
agreement as a result of a previous ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy
Judge James Peck, it said in the filing. While that case
involving a  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  trustee unit was
settled, Peck’s ruling stands, it said.  “The bankruptcy court continues to adhere to the reasoning
of BNY Trustee -- while the correctness of that decision remains
very much unresolved,” it said, referring to Peck’s ruling.  In the BNY case, Peck ruled in Lehman’s favor, saying that
a swap agreement written to protect both parties from default by
the other party didn’t apply under bankruptcy law. He used a
similar principle earlier this month when he refused to dismiss
a Lehman suit against an entity known as Ballyrock ABS CDO 2007-
1 Ltd., the Michigan agency said.  The authority sells bonds to raise money to help fund home
mortgages and rental housing developments. It struck a swap
agreement with a Lehman unit in 2000 to offset its interest rate
risk as a borrower, according to the filing. The agreement
allowed either party to end the transaction if the other
defaulted, it said.  The lawsuit is Michigan State Housing Development Authority
v. Lehman Brothers Derivative Products, 09-01728, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
bankruptcy case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  BTA Bank Seeks U.K. Arrest of Ex-Chairman Ablyazov Over Assets  BTA Bank, the Kazakh lender suing former executives for
alleged fraud during the credit crunch, said it asked a U.K.
judge to jail ex-Chairman Mukhtar Ablyazov for failing to fully
disclose his assets to the court.  Kazakhstan’s third-biggest lender, which seeks $4 billion
in the case, said it filed the request with the  High Court  in
 London  on May 16, after forensic accountants found evidence of
more than 600 shell companies used by Ablyazov to hide his
wealth in violation of a U.K. order freezing his assets.  “Mr. Ablyazov has not complied with numerous orders
requiring full disclosure of all his assets,” BTA said
yesterday in a statement. It wants him to “comply with the
court’s orders and unwind the improper transactions that he has
carried out.”  BTA, whose creditors include  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , claims Ablyazov and ex-
Chief Executive Officer Roman Solodchenko conspired to siphon
money from the bank before fleeing from Kazakhstan to London.
The lender was nationalized in 2009 and later defaulted on $12
billion of debt held by some of the world’s biggest banks.  “Mr. Ablyazov is meeting all the conditions of the
freezing order,” his spokesman, Locksley Ryan of London-based
 RLF Partnership Ltd. , said in a phone interview. “There’s
absolutely no suggestion of him not meeting the court order.”  The case is JSC BTA Bank v. Mukhtar Ablyazov, [2011] EWHC
1136 (Comm), Royal Courts of Justice (London).  For more, click here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Ex-Diamondback Capital Manager Pleaded Guilty in 2010  A former Diamondback Capital Management LLC portfolio
manager, Anthony Scolaro, pleaded guilty to conspiracy and
securities fraud in November, according to a plea agreement
unsealed yesterday in Manhattan federal court.  Scolaro admitted to conspiring with Franz Tudor, a trader
at New York-based Schottenfeld Group LLC, from October 2007 to
sometime in 2008. Tudor, who cooperated with prosecutors after
pleading guilty to securities fraud in October 2009, gave
Scolaro an illegal tip on the acquisition of Axcan Pharma Inc.,
announced on Nov. 29, 2007, according to the criminal charges.  “The defendant, Franz Tudor, and others known and unknown,
executed trades in the securities of Axcan prior to the public
announcement of the acquisition, earning thousands of dollars in
unlawful profits,” the government alleged in the seven-page
charging document.  The charges against Scolaro make public for the first time
the connection between the federal insider-trading probe of
Galleon Group LLC, where Tudor also worked, and a series of
raids by the FBI of hedge funds in November. The searches were
carried out as part of an insider trading investigation of hedge
fund and expert networking firms.  Steve Bruce, a spokesman for Stamford, Connecticut-based
Diamondback, declined to comment. Roger Jassie, chief compliance
officer at Schottenfeld, didn’t return a voice-mail message
seeking comment.  The plea agreement, dated Nov. 12, requires Scolaro to
cooperate with the government’s investigation and to testify as
a prosecution witness at any trial in the matter.  On Nov. 22, FBI agents from New York and  Boston  executed
search warrants at the offices of Level Global Investors LP as
well as Diamondback, firms founded by alumni of SAC Capital
Advisors LP. Agents that day also searched the offices of Loch
Capital Management in Boston.  The case is U.S. v. Scolaro, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Ageas (AGS) , Dutch State Win Ruling on Fortis Investors’ Damages  Ageas, the insurer that groups the remains of Fortis, and
the Dutch state defeated a court bid by Fortis shareholders
seeking damages for a 95 percent share-price decline in 2008
following the company’s bailout.  The Amsterdam district court rejected demands from Adriaan
de Gier, a lawyer who claimed to represent about 1,600 Fortis
investors, to reverse the nationalization of Ageas’s Dutch
insurance and banking businesses in October 2008 or be
compensated for damages, according to a ruling published
yesterday.  Fortis was forced to sell parts of the company in a state-
organized breakup in 2008 to avert collapse as the credit crunch
worsened, customers pulled deposits and investors lost
confidence. The Netherlands bought the Dutch banking and
insurance units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV for 16.8
billion euros ($23.9 billion) after an earlier rescue plan was
deemed insufficient.  “The Fortis ship ended up in financially heavy weather at
the end of September 2008” and “its cargo, valuable to many
for different reasons, threatened to get lost,” Judge Hans
Vrakking wrote in the ruling. “Drastic measures at full sea
were unavoidable.”  The ruling is “very disappointing” and an appeal is
foreseen, De Gier said.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Manhattan Prosecutor Said to Withdraw From Strauss-Kahn Case  A top Manhattan prosecutor withdrew from handling the
prosecution of former International Monetary Fund chief
Dominique Strauss-Kahn because her husband works for his defense
lawyer’s firm, a person familiar with the matter said.  Karen Friedman Agnifilo, chief of the trial division at the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office, disqualified herself from
the case of Strauss-Kahn, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. The former IMF
chief, who resigned today, is charged with sexual assault and
attempted rape in an alleged attack on a New York hotel maid.  Agnifilo is married to Marc Agnifilo, an attorney at the
New York firm of Brafman & Associates. Benjamin Brafman has been
hired as defense counsel for Strauss-Kahn.  Agnifilo recused herself from the case “as soon as the law
firm of Brafman & Associates, with which her husband is
associated, was engaged as counsel for the defendant,” Erin
Duggan, the chief spokeswoman for Manhattan District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr., said in a statement. “This is consistent with
routine practice.”  Neither Karen Friedman Agnifilo nor Marc Agnifilo responded
immediately to calls for comment.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  On the Docket  U.S. Defends Minimum Coverage Mandate in Health-Care Appeal  The Obama administration defended its health-care
legislation’s minimum-coverage mandate in a court filing that
sets the stage for next month’s appeal hearing over a U.S.
judge’s decision to strike down the law.  A federal appeals court in Atlanta on June 8 will hear
argument from attorneys for the U.S. and for 26 states that sued
successfully to void the Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act signed into law by President Barack Obama in March 2010.  The U.S. is appealing Judge C. Roger Vinson’s Jan. 31
ruling that the mandate compelling most Americans to obtain
coverage starting in 2014 exceeds Congress’s power to regulate
commerce. The Pensacola,  Florida , judge concluded that without
that requirement the remainder of the act was unworkable and
invalid.  The states have urged the appeals court to uphold Vinson’s
ruling.  The Atlanta-based court will be the third federal appeals
court to hear argument over the legality of the legislation. The
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Richmond, Virginia on May 10 heard
arguments on the appeals of rulings by two federal judges in
that state, one of whom upheld the act’s constitutionality and
another who held the individual mandate portion alone invalid.  A U.S. appellate panel in Cincinnati is set to hear
arguments June 1 in an appeal by  Thomas More Law Center , a
nonprofit law group that advocates for Christian values, of a
Detroit federal judge’s ruling last year upholding the law.  Inconsistent decisions rendered by the three appellate
panels may set the stage for later review by the U.S. Supreme
Court.F  The case is State of Florida v. U.S. Department of Health
and Human Services, 11-11021, 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
(Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  