-- 
Gap Cuts Annual Profit Forecast by About 22% as Costs Soar; Shares Decline

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-19T20:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/gap-cuts-annual-profit-forecast-by-about-23-as-costs-soar-shares-decline.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S. apparel
chain, cut its full-year profit forecast by 22 percent as costs
to make clothes rose faster than expected. The shares tumbled.  Gap fell as much as $3.44, or 15 percent, to $19.85 in
extended trading, after closing up 21 cents to $23.29 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Fiscal 2011 profit will be as much as $1.50 a share, the
San Francisco-based company said today in an e-mailed statement.
Gap had previously forecast a maximum of $1.93 a share.  Expenses per unit will rise 20 percent in the second half,
outweighing price increases, Gap said. The apparel industry is
facing cost inflation for the first time in two decades because
of surging cotton prices and increased pay for workers who make
clothes in China and other parts of  Asia . Retailers have said
they plan to raise prices to counter the higher costs.  “While we acknowledge that costing pressure is impacting
our business, we’re working hard to navigate this short-term
macro challenge to our profitability in the current fiscal
year,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Glenn Murphy said
in the statement.  First-quarter net income fell 23 percent to $233 million,
or 40 cents a share, in the period ended April 30, from $302
million, or 45 cents, a year earlier. Analysts projected 39
cents, the average of 28 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Total
sales declined 1 percent to $3.3 billion while online revenue
gained 18 percent to $348 million.  Murphy has boosted profits by closing underperforming
stores and shrinking other locations in a U.S. market the
company describes as mature. The retailer is now looking
overseas for sales growth by expanding into new regions in the
past year, including  China  and  Italy .  Murphy has also shaken up the Gap North America brand,
which has posted sales declines at stores open at least 52 weeks
for six straight years, by replacing its president and head
designer. So-called same-store sales fell 3 percent in the first
quarter at the chain’s namesake brand.  “We are disappointed in our quarterly performance, however
remain invigorated by the opportunities ahead,” Murphy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  