-- 
GCL-Poly Can’t Explain Six-Day Stock Slide, Says Business Is ‘Normal’

-- B y   J o s h u a   F e l l m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T20:30:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/gcl-poly-can-t-explain-six-day-stock-slide-says-business-is-normal-.html
GCL-Poly Energy Holdings Ltd. (3800) ,
 China ’s largest polysilicon maker, said operations are normal,
production and sales are on schedule and expansion is going
smoothly, and it can’t explain its falling share price.  The stock fell for a sixth consecutive day in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, dropping 47 Hong Kong cents, or 10 percent,
to HK$4.09. It has lost 27 percent since May 11, while the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index  slipped 0.6 percent over the same
period. GCL-Poly addressed the decline in a statement issued
yesterday after the market closed.  Prices and margins are being squeezed in the solar
industry, from wafers to cells to modules. The spot price of
polysilicon, the main raw material used to make photovoltaic
panels, dropped 5.1 percent this month from April to $74.40 a
kilo, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  “What you’re seeing is a realization that polysilicon will
not be immune from the supply issues roiling the industry,”
Paul Leming, an analyst at Soleil Securities Corp. in  New York ,
said in a phone interview today. GCL-Poly has “huge exposure to
falling wafer and polysilicon prices.”  Still, the market hasn’t noticeably deteriorated in the
past week, and most equity analysts seem bullish about the
stock, said Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at New Energy
Finance. Of 20 analysts tracked by Bloomberg who follow GCL-
Poly, 19 recommend that investors buy the stock. There is only
one “sell” rating.  Credit Ratings  “The slide in GCL-Poly’s share price could possibly be
related to its first credit ratings, by S&P and Fitch last
week,” Chase wrote in an e-mail. Some investors may have
expected higher ratings.  Standard & Poor’s Rating Services rated GCL-Poly BB+, the
highest non-investment grade, and its proposed bonds BB, the
second-highest. Fitch Ratings gave the company and the issue
BBB-, the lowest investment grade.  The company is “susceptible to high industry risk” and
has a short record of large-scale operations, S&P said on May
13. The ratings company said GCL-Poly’s outlook is stable
because of “strong market position and competitive cost
structure.”  GCL-Poly said its board “has noted the recent decrease of
the price of the shares of the company and wish to state that
they are not aware of any reasons for the decrease,” according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Fellman in New York at 
 jfellman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Bruce Grant  at 
 bruceg@bloomberg.net  