-- 
Georgia Says Russia Shoots, Wounds Two People on Disputed Border

-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 
2011-05-19T12:04:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/georgia-says-russia-shoots-wounds-two-people-on-disputed-border.html
Georgia  said Russian forces based in
South Ossetia shot and wounded two Georgian civilians, one 17
years old, on the border of the separatist region yesterday, the
first such incident since March 2009.  The shooting occurred after Russian troops attempted to
detain five young men from a nearby village who were collecting
edible plants, the government said today in an e-mailed
statement. In a separate incident, four Georgian citizens were
“illegally” apprehended, according to the statement.  South Ossetia said a group of Georgian citizens crossed the
border illegally and were detained, the New York-based Georgian
Daily website reported yesterday, citing a statement from the
region’s security service. Unidentified people then fired on
South Ossetian border guards in an effort to free those
detained, the website said, adding that fire was returned.  Russia defeated Georgia in a five-day war over South
Ossetia in August 2008. While Russia recognizes the region as an
independent state and has agreed to defend its borders, Georgia
still claims sovereignty over the territory.  Georgia’s Interior Ministry disputed the South Ossetian
account of yesterday’s incident, saying no shots were fired from
its sided of the border.  A  European Union  monitoring mission was informed and sent a
patrol to investigate, Ia Makharashvili, spokeswoman for
Georgia’s Foreign Ministry, said today by phone. South Ossetia
has made no contact with Georgia over the matter, she said.  “We urge all parties to exercise restraint in the wake of
the incident, to share fully all details with the European Union
Monitoring Mission and to participate as soon as possible in an
ad hoc meeting of the Incident Prevention and Response
Mechanism,” the U.S. embassy in Tbilisi said yesterday in a
statement on its website. “This incident highlights the ongoing
need for EUMM access to both sides of the administrative
boundary line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  