-- 
German Stocks Climb for Second Day on Fed Minutes; BASF Gains in Frankfurt

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-05-19T16:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/german-stocks-climb-for-second-day-on-fed-minutes-basf-gains-in-frankfurt.html
German stocks climbed for a second
straight day after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s policy
meeting signaled  interest rates  will remain low in the world’s
largest economy.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  rallied 3.1 percent as investors bought
shares ahead of weighting adjustments in the MSCI and FTSE
Indexes.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  gained 2.3 percent as JPMorgan
Chase & Co. reiterated the company is likely to boost third-
quarter earnings guidance. K+S AG advanced as corn climbed for a
sixth day in  Chicago .  The  DAX Index (DAX)  gained 54.7, or 0.8 percent, to 7,358.23 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge, which
yesterday snapped a five-day losing streak, has advanced 6.4
percent this year as government stimulus measures helped drive
the global economic recovery. The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  also rose
0.8 percent today.  Minutes of the Fed’s April policy meeting said that talks
about an exit strategy from record stimulus measures did not
mean monetary tightening “would necessarily begin soon.”  Almost all officials agreed that the “first step toward
normalization” should be ceasing reinvestment of principal
payments on mortgage debt that began in August, the Federal Open
Market Committee said in records of its April 26-27 session,
released after the close of European trading yesterday.  Commerzbank Climbs  Commerzbank, Germany’s second-biggest lender, rallied 3.1
percent to 3.92 euros. Investors bought shares before the bank’s
weighting is increased in FTSE and MSIC indexes tomorrow
following the sale and conversion of more than 1 billion
conditional mandatory exchangeable notes, or Comen.  Separately, Reuters reported the bank will announce a
capital increase early next week. The lender is likely to sell
new shares at about 55 percent of current market value, Reuters
reported, citing four people close to the transaction.  Infineon gained 2.3 percent to 8.09 euros after JPMorgan
reiterated in a report that it sees a “high possibility” the
chipmaker will raise third-quarter guidance.  K+S,  Europe ’s largest potash producer, climbed 0.9 percent
to 52.82 euros as corn futures climbed for a sixth day, the
longest winning streak this year.  Siemens AG (SIE)  climbed 2.3 percent to 93.84 euros, the largest
gain in a month. Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said that
while growing the company’s existing businesses is a priority,
the engineering firm may make bolt-on acquisitions for 1 billion
euros ($1.4 billion) to 5 billion euros.  Merck KGaA (MRK)  dropped 1.7 percent to 75 euros after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. lowered its recommendation for the German chemical
and drug company to “underweight” from “neutral.” Analysts
cited mounting risks at its pharmaceutical business and
consensus that is “too bullish” on its royalty forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  