-- 
Greek Government Bonds Fall on Reprofiling; Spanish, German Debt Declines

-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-19T15:56:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/german-government-bonds-decline-before-spanish-and-french-debt-auctions.html
Greek 10-year bonds slumped for a
fourth day on concern that a potential extension of the nation’s
bond maturities would deter the  European Central Bank  from
accepting the debt as collateral.  The spread, or yield difference, between benchmark Greek
debt and German bunds widened for a fourth day. ECB President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  told finance ministers this week that,
should  Greece  be given more time to repay debt, the central bank
would revoke a special arrangement under which Greek debt is
accepted as collateral,  Financial Times Deutschland , citing
unidentified officials. Spanish bonds fell as the nation sold
less bonds than the maximum target. German bunds dropped as
stock gains eroded demand for the safest assets.  “This further underlines the clear divisions within euro-
area officialdom as regards how to deal with Greece’s debt
funk,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-income strategist
at Rabobank International. “A refusal to accept Greek debt as
collateral would result in an unsustainable bout of illiquidity
in the Greek banking sector. The mixed messages underpin the
risk of further peripheral tension as the market frets over this
apparent policy disarray.”  Yields on 10-year Greek debt rose 22 basis points to 16.02
percent as of 4:33 p.m. in  London . Two-year Greek note yields
declined 17 basis points to 24.82 percent. Spanish 10-year
yields were four basis points higher at 5.40 percent, while two-
year yields climbed five basis points to 3.5 percent.  ‘Reprofiling’  European Central Bank officials yesterday ruled out a Greek
debt restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a
solution to the crisis.  “A Greek debt restructuring is not the appropriate way
forward -- it would create a catastrophe,” ECB Executive Board
member Juergen Stark said today in Lagonissi, Greece. Fellow
board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said in Milan that “a solution
for reducing debt but not paying for it will not work.”  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  this week
proposed the “reprofiling” of Greek maturities, damping
concern that private bondholders will be forced to absorb
losses. European governments have thus far favored taxpayer-
funded bailouts to stamp out the region’s sovereign-debt woes.  The European Union’s two bailout funds today revised their
debt-sale schedule to take account of the planned aid for
 Portugal , saying they will sell bonds for a total of 15.3
billion euros in “various” operations between May 23 and July
15 to help fund the Portuguese and Irish rescue packages.  Spanish Sale  Euro-region nations will sell 246 billion euros of bonds in
the second quarter compared with 253 billion euros in the first
three months of this year, according to a forecast by HSBC
Holdings Plc.  Spanish 10-year bonds fell after the country sold 3.2
billion euros of 10-year and 30-year bonds, below the 4 billion-
euro upper limit. Investors bid for 1.83 times the amount
offered of the 10-year bonds, compared with 2.1 at a previous
sale of the securities, according to the Bank of  Spain .  Bids for 30-year debt exceeded supply by 1.97 times,
compared with 2.06 previously.  “The total amount sold was less than we expected, but
overall it’s a reasonable auction,” said Achilleas Georgolopoulos, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banks
Corporate Markets. “There’s a lot of uncertainty in the market
given the latest developments on the debt crisis.”  Inflation Bonds  German bonds fell as the Stoxx Europe 600 Index gained as
much as 1.2 percent, curbing demand for fixed-income assets.
Two-year  note yields were little changed at 1.84 percent while
10-year bund yields were also little changed, at 3.13 percent.  France  sold 8.48 billion euros of debt maturing in 2013,
2015 and 2016 and 1.98 billion euros of inflation-linked
securities, maturing in 2016, 2019 and 2027.  French index-linked bonds have outperformed their nominal
counterparts this year as investors sought protection against
inflation. They handed investors a 1.8 percent gain compared
with a loss of 0.5 percent from conventional securities,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Inflation in the euro region accelerated to 2.8 percent in April
from a year ago, the fastest pace in 2 1/2 years.  German  government bonds  have handed investors a loss of 0.9
percent this year, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg, while
Treasuries have returned 1.9 percent. Spanish debt earned 2.3
percent and French bonds lost 0.6 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  