-- 
Global Company Earnings to Grow Faster-Than-Estimated 18%, Citigroup Says

-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-05-19T04:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/global-earnings-to-grow-faster-than-forecast-citigroup-says-1-.html
Global per-share earnings will rise
18 percent this year, faster than an earlier forecast, amid
stronger revenue growth and sustained margins, according to
Citigroup Inc.  Earnings per share, or EPS, are estimated to increase 11
percent in 2012 and 9 percent in 2013, analysts led by  Robert Buckland , Citigroup’s chief global strategist, wrote in a report
yesterday. The brokerage had predicted in September earnings-
per-share growth of 12 percent this year.  The MSCI All Country World Index may end the year at 380,
higher than an earlier forecast of 360, the analysts said. The
MSCI index rose 0.2 percent to 344.60 as of 12:02 p.m. in
 Singapore . The index has jumped 21 percent in the past 12 months
and is valued at 12.6 times estimated profits, compared with the
average of 13.8 times over the last four years.  “Companies are generating faster revenue growth than we
originally expected,” Buckland said in the report. “In
addition, cautious cost management means that current margins
are at least sustainable for now.”  Among the 471 members on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
that have released quarterly results, about 67 percent have
beaten analyst estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts’ average estimates for  S&P 500  companies
have risen 9.3 percent this year, according to Bloomberg data.  UBS, RBC  UBS AG lifted its estimates for combined profit by
companies in the S&P 500 for this year and 2012 on productivity
growth, share buybacks, rising oil prices and strength in
emerging markets.  Their recommendations contrast with that of Myles Zyblock,
the chief institutional strategist at Royal Bank of Canada, who
said in a note to clients yesterday that investors should reduce
their U.S. equity holdings because weaker-than-forecast economic
data suggest earnings estimates are too high and a stronger  U.S.
dollar  is threatening exports.  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s second-largest personal-computer
maker, reported on May 17 first-quarter profit that topped
analyst forecasts, bolstered by corporate technology spending.
 Vivendi SA (VIV) , the owner of the world’s biggest music and video-
game companies, said this month first-quarter profit rose 29
percent, joining other European companies from PSA Peugeot
Citroen to Ericsson AB in beating analyst estimates.  “Recent reporting seasons in the U.S. and  Europe  have been
strong,” said Buckland in the report. “We continue to believe
that we are in the stage of the market cycle when stock prices
grind higher with EPS.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  