-- 
Goffer Trial Witness Says He Traded Merger Tips for Cash-Filled Envelopes

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/goffer-trial-witness-says-he-traded-merger-tips-for-cash-filled-envelopes.html
The jury in the trial of former
Galleon Group LLC trader Zvi Goffer heard from a disbarred
lawyer who told of using prepaid cell phones to pass along
merger tips gleaned from his former law firm and taking cash-
stuffed envelopes in return.  Brien Santarlas, 34, who worked as an attorney in the  New
York  office of the firm Ropes & Gray LLP, testified yesterday in
the trial of Goffer, a former employee of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , and two other men on trial for  insider
trading  in federal court in Manhattan.  Santarlas, testifying under a cooperation agreement with
the government, said he and another former Ropes & Gray
attorney, Arthur Cutillo, told  Brooklyn , New York, lawyer Jason
Goldfarb in 2007 about acquisitions involving 3Com Corp. and
Axcan Pharma Inc. He said Goldfarb gave him $25,000 for the 3Com
information and $7,500 for Axcan.  “When I received the cash, Jason had told me to dispose of
the phone -- break it in half, submerge it in water and put it
in a garbage can,” Santarlas testified.  Prosecutors claim Goldfarb passed the information to
Goffer, who used it to get a job at Galleon. Santarlas, Cutillo
and Goldfarb have all pleaded guilty in the case.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish played recordings of
wiretapped phone calls between Goffer and Goldfarb in which they
discuss Goffer’s new job at Galleon.  ‘Bigger Scale’  “I’m playing on a bigger scale,” Goffer said on the
recording.  Santarlas told jurors he and Cutillo began passing tips
after a conversation over drinks in the summer of 2007.  “While we were making good money, it seemed like nothing
compared to what they were making on  Wall Street ,” Santarlas
said. “Art made the suggestion that there’s other ways to make
money.”  A friend of Cutillo’s knew a trader who would pay for tips
about corporate acquisitions, Santarlas said Cutillo told him.  “My understanding was the trader would buy the stock and
he could essentially make money when the acquisition was
announced publicly,” Santarlas testified.  Santarlas said he picked up information from talking with
colleagues, trolling office printers for deal-related papers and
searching Ropes & Gray’s document management system for keywords
including “3-Com” and “merger.”  Fired by Galleon  Goffer, 34, founded his own firm, Incremental Capital LLC,
after he was fired from Galleon, his lawyer, William Barzee,
said in his opening statement to jurors May 18. Goffer is being
tried with his brother, Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both former traders at Incremental.  All three men are charged with securities fraud and
conspiracy, stemming from one of three overlapping rings tied to
Galleon, prosecutors said. They face as long as 20 years in
prison if convicted of fraud.  Santarlas is scheduled to continue his testimony when the
trial resumes on May 23.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  