-- 
Gold Fields May Face Higher Peru Royalties, Taxes After Presidential Vote

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-19T16:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/gold-fields-may-face-higher-peru-royalties-taxes-after-presidential-vote.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , the fourth-largest
producer of the metal, faces the threat of higher royalties and
taxes in Peru after elections next month as the country seeks a
greater return from its resources amid record-high prices.  “It’s conceivable that we might see some higher royalties,
higher taxes,” Chief Executive Officer Nick Holland said in an
interview in Johannesburg today. The company, based in the city,
paid global royalties of 165 million rand ($24 million), up 40
percent, last quarter. Peru’s presidential vote is on June 5.  A 25 percent surge in London-traded gold in the past year
to $1,490 an ounce has added to mining companies’ earnings and
encouraged nations such as  South Africa ,  Australia ,  Chile ,  Ghana 
and Namibia to seek changes in their share of the profit. Gold
Fields operates in Peru’s Cerro Corona and Chucapaca, where BHP
Billiton Ltd., the largest mining company, has copper mines.  Gold Fields will cooperate with Peru, and prefers a system
“linked to added taxes on profits as opposed to royalties,”
which may limit the size of projects, Holland said.  Peru’s gold-export revenue rose 23 percent to a record $809
million in March, the central bank said on May 17. Prices of the
metal in  London  reached an all-time high of $1,577.57 on May 2.  Without changes in Peru, Gold Fields’ royalty payments in
the next few quarters should be similar or just “a little bit
higher” than those in the first three months, Holland said.  Labor, Power Costs  Gold Fields and Johannesburg-based rivals  AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd. (ANG)  and Harmony Gold Mining Ltd. are seeking to boost output
and cut costs to counter higher labor, power and royalty fees.
They face the possibility of “very tough” and “drawn out”
South African wage talks from the next few weeks, Holland said.  Northam Platinum Ltd. lost 43 days of production during a
strike last year before workers settled for pay increases of 10-
13 percent. Inflation in the country, where Gold Fields mines
most of its metal, was an annual 4.2 percent in April.  The company,  Africa ’s second-largest producer of the metal,
posted first-quarter profit, following a loss in the prior three
months, on rising prices and as the sale of a stake to black
investors previously wasn’t repeated. Profit excluding one-time
items was 1.1 billion rand, or 1.51 rand a share, compared with
a loss of 776 million rand, or 1.09 rand, in the previous
quarter, the company said today in a statement.  Output fell 8 percent to 830,000 ounces. Second-quarter
output at the Beatrix mine should recover from the first,
Holland told reporters in Johannesburg today.  Philippine Project  Gold Fields prefers developing the reserves it already has
to acquiring companies, he said. It is advancing studies at
Chucapaca, the Far South East project in the  Philippines  and
Yanfolila in  Mali , where it’s looking for 200,000 to 250,000
ounces annually, Holland told investors on a conference call.  Gold Fields rose 0.1 percent to 106.80 rand by the 5 p.m.
close of Johannesburg trading, paring an 11 percent decline this
year. The slide compares with a 4.6 percent drop in AngloGold
shares so far in 2011 and an 11 percent slump in Harmony.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , Newmont Mining Corp. and AngloGold are
the world’s largest producers of the metal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 