-- 
Gold May Gain on Europe Debt Concern, Inflation, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-19T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/gold-may-gain-on-europe-debt-concern-inflation-survey-shows.html
Gold may gain as concern about
 Europe ’s debt crisis and faster inflation spur demand for the
metal as an alternative investment, a survey found.  Twelve of 19 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 63 percent, said bullion will rise next week.
Three predicted lower prices and four were neutral. Gold for
June delivery was down 0.3 percent for this week at $1,488.60 an
ounce by 11:02 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York . It
reached a record of $1,577.40 on May 2.  Gold demand gained 11 percent to 981.3 metric tons in the
first quarter as  China  helped boost investment and jewelry
purchases, the World Gold Council said yesterday. European
Central Bank officials this week ruled out a Greek debt
restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a solution
to the crisis.  “The medium- and long-term trend remains bullish due to
continuing strong investment demand,” said Mark O’Byrne,
executive director of brokerage GoldCore Ltd. in Dublin.
“People continue to buy gold due to the uncertain outlook due
to the sovereign debt crisis in the euro zone, deepening
inflation and the uncertain geopolitical outlook in north  Africa 
and the Middle East.”  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of May 13.  The weekly gold survey, which started about seven years
ago, has forecast prices accurately in 208 of 363 weeks, or 57
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 12 Bearish: 3 Neutral: 4  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 