-- 
Goodwin Won Order to Halt Reports of Affair

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y ,   J a m e s   L u m l e y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 
2011-05-19T12:54:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/goodwin-won-order-to-halt-media-reports-of-affair.html
Former  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  Chief Executive Officer Fred Goodwin obtained an injunction
to keep the media from reporting allegations that he had a
“relationship” with a senior colleague, a U.K. lawmaker said
during a public hearing in Parliament today.  Ben Stoneham, a Liberal Democrat member of the upper House
of Lords, said that the injunction makes it impossible for bank
regulators to investigate what may have been a breach of
corporate governance at the Edinburgh-based bank, which required
the largest bank bailout in the world.  “Every tax payer has a direct public interest in the
events leading up to the collapse of the Royal Bank of  Scotland ,
so how can it be right for a super-injunction to hide the
alleged relationship between Sir  Fred Goodwin  and a senior
colleague?” Stoneham asked. “If true, it would be a serious
breach of corporate governance and not even the Financial
Services Authority would be allowed to know about it.”  Two of the U.K.’s most senior judges may attempt to rein in
so-called super-injunctions in a report tomorrow in response to
political and media outcry over the orders emanating from London
courts in cases involving more than 30 soccer players, athletes
and politicians who are attempting to hide their peccadilloes.  Goodwin’s lawyer, Geraldine Proudler, declined to comment
when contacted by telephone. RBS spokesman Michael Strachan also
declined to comment.  RBS Bailout  RBS posted the biggest loss in corporate history in 2008
and required a bailout following the bank’s 73.3 billion-euro
($104.6 million) acquisition of  ABN Amro  of the Netherlands.
Goodwin was cleared of responsibility in December in a report by
the FSA on RBS’s 45.5 billion-pound ($73.7 billion) rescue.  Another member of Parliament, John Hemming, disclosed the
existence of Goodwin’s super-injunction in March, saying the
court order prevented Goodwin from being identified as a banker.  Chief Justice Igor Judge and Master of the Rolls Lord David Neuberger are scheduled to issue a report on super-injunctions
tomorrow that may be unable to make many changes to the
controversial orders until Prime Minister  David Cameron  and
other politicians reform U.K. privacy laws, said Robin Shaw, a
media lawyer at Davenport Lyons.  “I’d be surprised if they make any changes to the law of
privacy, or even recommend any changes,” said Shaw, who
represents satirical magazine Private Eye. They will more likely
concern themselves with procedure because changing the law is
the job of legislators, he said.  Mosley Ruling  The court orders have been on the rise since Formula One
President Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his  privacy
rights  had been violated by a story by News Corp.’s News of the
World that claimed he took part in a Nazi-themed sex party.  Hemming, a Liberal Democrat who sits in the lower House of
Commons, says judges are to blame for the rise in super-
injunctions. Parliament never intended to create “the most
rigid privacy regime in the world where people can be jailed for
gossiping,” he said in an interview.  Judges “are not interpreting statute in the way parliament
intended,” Hemming said. They should have more regard the right
for freedom of expression, and less for the right to a private
life, he said.  While the injunctions generally limit descriptions of the
celebrities to a “sportsman” or a “businessman,” their
identities are increasingly being released. A Twitter Inc. user
posted messages on May 8 claiming a number of U.K. celebrities
had won super-injunctions and made allegations detailing the
activities that the notable people sought to keep out of the
public eye, causing lawyers to question the effectiveness of the
orders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net 
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  