-- 
Lawmakers Aim Mobile Privacy Push at Apple, Google, Facebook

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-05-19T17:14:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/google-s-davidson-defends-company-s-use-of-mobile-location-data.html
U.S. lawmakers, considering
legislation aimed at protecting consumers’ online privacy, said
the market for smartphone applications needs to be regulated to
prevent the inappropriate sharing of user data.  As mobile devices “become more powerful, more personal
information is being concentrated in one place,” Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat, said today during a
Senate Commerce subcommittee hearing in  Washington  on mobile
privacy. “These devices are not really phones -- they are
miniature computers.”  “The mobile marketplace is so new and technology is moving
so quickly that many consumers do not understand the privacy
implications of their actions,” Rockefeller, who chairs the
Commerce Committee, said in prepared remarks released before the
subcommittee hearing.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Facebook Inc., along with the
thousands of developers who make applications for their
platforms, are facing increasing scrutiny from Congress over how
they collect, use and store customer information, including data
gathered from smartphones and other wireless devices. Executives
from the three companies appeared before the panel today.  In its testimony, Google defended its handling of user data
tied to mobile devices using its Android software, telling U.S.
lawmakers that the company seeks consent for the collection and
use of location information.  “Google is also very careful about how we use and store
the data that is generated by these services,” Alan Davidson,
the  Mountain View , California-based company’s director of public
policy, said in his testimony.  Protect Children  Rockefeller  said  yesterday that he sent letters to Apple
and Google asking them whether applications that run on their
mobile platforms comply with online privacy laws for children.  Catherine Novelli, vice president of worldwide government
affairs for Cupertino, California-based Apple, told lawmakers
today that the company doesn’t knowingly collect any information
on children under age 13.  All location data gathered by Apple from iPhones and iPad
tablet computers is anonymous and can’t be traced to individual
users, Novelli said. The information is used to improve the
functionality of the devices.  “Apple does not track users’ location, has never done done
so and has no plans to do so,” she said, repeating what the
company said during a May 10 hearing of a Senate Judiciary
subcommittee.  ‘Great Incentive’  When Apple finds that an app misuses customer data, the
company gives the developer 24 hours to fix the problem or be
removed from the  App Store , Novelli said. That kind of warning
is a “great incentive” for developers to correct such
problems, she said.  Google provides parental controls to protect children and
requires developers to rate the maturity level of apps offered
in the Android market, Davidson said.  ‘The location information sent to Google servers when users
opt in to location services on Android is anonymized and stored
in the aggregate,’’ Davidson said. “It’s not tied or traceable
to a specific user.”  Facebook Chief Technology Officer Bret Taylor told
lawmakers that the  Palo Alto , California-based company has
“robust privacy protections.” If customers “lose trust in a
service like Facebook, they will stop using it,” he said.  Taylor said that mobile technology “will play an
increasingly important role” in how people use  Facebook , the
world’s largest social networking site. The company is “testing
a new policy that communicates about privacy in a simple,
interactive way,” according to his testimony.  FTC Role  Facebook requires developers of applications and websites
that connect to its service to be “responsible stewards” of
user information, Taylor said.  Pressed by Rockefeller on children’s use of Facebook,
Taylor said that no one under the age of 13 can create an
account and that Facebook removes underage users’ profiles.  “Whenever we find out that someone’s misrepresented their
age on Facebook we shut down their account,” Taylor said. “We
don’t allow people to misrepresent their age.”  Rockefeller, who introduced legislation May 9 that would
let consumers choose not to have their online activities
tracked, said the Federal Trade Commission wasn’t being
“aggressive” enough on Internet privacy.  He asked  David Vladeck , director of the FTC’s bureau of
consumer protection, whether the agency is making sure that
mobile applications comply with laws governing children’s online
privacy.  Vladeck said the FTC “has a number of investigations
ongoing in the mobile space, including apps aimed at children.”  “We are looking for good enforcement targets in this
space,” Vladeck said.  Asked by Senator Claire McCaskill, a Missouri Democrat,
about agency staffing, Vladeck said the FTC was “short-
staffed” but pursuing “vigorous” enforcement.  “I need more people,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in Washington at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  