-- 
Google-Backed $5 Billion Offshore Wind Project Wins Reduced U.S. Rate

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-05-19T19:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/google-backed-5-billion-offshore-wind-project-wins-reduced-u-s-rate.html
A  Google Inc (GOOG) .-backed project to build
a $5 billion undersea power line carrying wind energy along the
coast from New York to Virginia won U.S. approval for a 12.59
percent profit, less than the developers requested.  The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission today granted the
return on equity to the  Atlantic Wind Connection , a project in
which Google of Mountain View,  California , owns a 42 percent
stake. Atlantic Wind sought 13.58 percent.  “All orders are compromises,” FERC Chairman Jon
Wellinghoff told reporters today after the agency’s monthly
meeting. He said Atlantic Wind is an “extremely innovative”
project that may reduce grid congestion.  FERC conditioned its approval for Atlantic Wind’s
incentives on the project’s inclusion in a transmission
expansion plan under consideration by regional electric-grid
operator PJM Interconnection LLC of Norristown,  Pennsylvania ,
the agency said in a statement.  “This appears to be very good news,” Elias G. Farrah, a
partner in the Washington office of Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP,
Atlantic Wind’s counsel, said in an e-mail. He declined further
comment until he had seen FERC’s full decision, he said.  Atlantic Wind also is awaiting a U.S. Interior Department
permit to build the line on the seabed and would need approval
from  New Jersey , Delaware and Maryland regulators for its first
phase of development,  Markian Melnyk , president of Atlantic Grid
Development LLC, the project’s developer, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Virginia, New York  Expansions, which may be complete by 2021, would need
approval from regulators in Virginia and  New York .  In addition to Google, the world’s biggest Internet-search
company, investors in Atlantic Wind Connection include Tokyo-
based trading company Marubeni Corp. and Good Energies, a clean-
energy investment firm in Zug,  Switzerland .  The  Maryland Public Service Commission  and the National
Rural Electric Cooperative Association were among groups
questioning whether Atlantic Wind’s requested incentives to
build the project were too high, according to regulatory filings
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 Bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  