-- 
Greek Debt Restructuring Stymied by Default Swap Concern, Citigroup Says

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-05-19T11:56:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/greek-debt-restructuring-stymied-by-default-swap-concern-citigroup-says.html
Greece  is unlikely to restructure its
debt in the short term because it would be difficult to do so
without triggering payouts of credit-default swaps, according to
Citigroup Inc.  “It is certainly possible to envisage forms of
restructuring which fail to trigger CDS, but we are doubtful
that they will be employed in practice,” said Michael Hampden- Turner, a strategist at Citigroup in  London . “We suspect that
European and ECB policy makers will duck the hard decisions.”  Political leaders and European Central Bank officials are
likely to “muddle through” with another “state-funded
bailout, perhaps this time collateralized by future asset
sales,” he said. New steps are needed after last year’s 110
billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue failed to restore Greece’s
financial health.  European officials are trying to avoid tripping swaps, with
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  saying this week that
“anything that would constitute a  credit event , is for me off
the table.” Speculation is increasing that a restructuring of
Greek bonds may be possible without meeting the  International
Swaps & Derivatives Association ’s definitions of such an event.  That could be avoided if changes are voluntary rather than
binding,Hampden-Turner said. But even a voluntary
restructuring, or “reprofiling” as officials are calling a
possible maturity extension, might still trigger the contracts,
he said.  Stigma, Contagion  Officials struggling to stem the crisis want to avoid
triggering swaps out of concern for stigma, contagion and
rewarding speculators, whom they blame for worsening the
region’s crisis, Hampden-Turner said. Greek debt will likely
have to be restructured at some point, he said.  It would be difficult to persuade investors to willingly
accept changes without some sort of coercive “stick,” and
options including taxes and retroactively applying collective
action clauses could still trip swaps, Hampden-Turner said.
Official pressure is unlikely because it would be “politically
unpalatable” to force losses only on European financial
institutions, while  hedge funds  and proprietary trading desks
outside the region escape such demands, he said.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “We are less convinced by the argument that politicians
are determined to see CDS holders punished and hedge funds
lose,” Hampden-Turner said. “Politicians might like to avoid a
scenario in which CDS trigger, but contagion seems like a more
significant and legitimate concern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  