-- 
Barnes & Noble Jumps Higher Than Offer by Malone’s Liberty

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-20T20:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/liberty-media-offers-1-billion-for-barnes-noble.html
Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  jumped 30 percent
in U.S. trading to a higher price than a buyout offer by  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp., suggesting investors are expecting
an increased bid.  Liberty Media offered $17 a share, the New York-based
bookstore said yesterday in a statement, a 20 percent premium to
yesterday’s closing price. The shares advanced $4.22 to $18.33
at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  “There is a solid chance of an improved offer,”  Michael Souers , a retail equities analyst with  Standard & Poor’s  who
recommends holding the stock, wrote in a note today.  Barnes & Noble, facing increasing competition as more
consumers buy electronic readers such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s
Kindle, hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  last year to explore a sale. Barnes &
Noble makes the Nook e-reader, and some potential bidders balked
at a purchase because of how long it may take the chain to
generate more digital sales, two people said last month.  “It’s making a bet on an industry that is rapidly changing
with every download being a vote against Barnes & Noble’s
business model for brick-and-mortar stores,” said  Brian Sozzi ,
a retail analyst for Wall Street Strategies in New York. “Every
time somebody goes out and buys an iPad or a Kindle, Barnes &
Noble’s assets are depreciating.”  A board committee will evaluate the proposal, which values
the company at about $1 billion and is subject to an accord and
to shareholder and regulatory approvals.  Liberty Media Stakes  Liberty Media, controlled by billionaire Malone, holds
stakes in the Starz Group media business,  Sirius XM Radio Inc. (SIRI) 
and  HSN Inc. (HSNI) , the home-shopping retailer.  Mary Ellen Keating , a spokeswoman for New York-based Barnes
& Noble, declined to comment beyond the statement. Courtnee Ulrich, a spokeswoman for Liberty Media, didn’t return a call
seeking comment.  Under Liberty’s plan, Barnes & Noble Chairman Leonard Riggio would maintain his about 30 percent equity stake and a
management role in the company. Liberty, based in Englewood,
 Colorado , would own 70 percent, it said in a separate statement.
Liberty will contribute about $500 million in cash and finance
the rest of its stake, it said.  In its statement, Liberty cited the bookseller’s management
team and transition to digital formats as drivers for growth.
Liberty Capital, the tracking stock that would include the
Barnes & Noble stake, fell $1.84 to $87.50 in Nasdaq trading and
had climbed 43 percent this year before today.  Chain’s Growth  The February bankruptcy of  Ann Arbor , Michigan-based
Borders Group Inc. may reduce competition for Barnes & Noble.
Borders, which plans to close about one-third of its stores,
hasn’t yet found a buyer, people with knowledge of the situation
said on May 14. Barnes & Noble offered to buy about 10 stores,
they said.  Riggio’s empire began in 1965 with a college bookstore in
 Manhattan ’s  Greenwich Village . In 1971, he bought the Barnes &
Noble name and its flagship store in Manhattan. The company
expanded through acquisitions, buying B. Dalton Bookseller and
Doubleday Bookshops.  The chain shifted from mall-based locations to superstores
in the early 1990s. An initial public offering in 1993 provided
the capital to expand across the U.S., and by 1996 Barnes &
Noble had more than 400 of these locations. The company now has
more than 700 superstores and has closed its mall sites.  Nook vs. Kindle  Barnes & Noble added to its retail locations in August 2009
after buying Barnes & Noble College Booksellers Inc. from Riggio
for more than $500 million.  More recently, the company’s investments in developing the
Nook and creating an e-book library have fueled revenue gains.
Sales at Barnes & Noble stores open at least a year rose 7.3
percent in the quarter ended Jan. 29, the first increase since
2007. Online revenue, where all digital content purchases are
recorded, surged 52 percent to $319.4 million last quarter.  The spending has helped Barnes & Noble narrow the gap with
market leader Amazon, which released its Kindle digital book
reader in 2007, two years before the Nook’s debut.  While Barnes & Noble put itself up for sale last August and
attracted little interest, the success of the Nook in the
burgeoning e-book space has garnered attention, said Souers, the
S&P analyst.  Kindle Lead  The Kindle has 67 percent of the e-reader market in the
U.S., followed by the Nook at 22 percent, according to a
February report from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  Amazon generates
58 percent of e-book sales, followed by Barnes & Noble’s 27
percent and Apple at 9 percent.  Being acquired by a larger company such as Liberty would
give Barnes & Noble the flexibility to close stores faster, said
Peter Wahlstrom, an analyst for Morningstar Investment Services
in  Chicago . The bookseller would also gain access to capital to
invest in its digital unit and advertising, he said.  “They are going up against some pretty big companies in
Amazon and Apple with really deep pockets, and if you get into
something like a Liberty Media they might be willing to spend
more money,” Wahlstrom said. “Barnes & Noble is kind of
hamstrung now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  