-- 
Libyan Rebel Official Says Death Toll After Revolt Reaches at Least 15,000

-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-05-19T15:51:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/libyan-rebel-official-says-death-toll-after-revolt-reaches-at-least-15-000.html
At least 15,000 people have been
killed in  Libya  and NATO should step up attacks against Muammar Qaddafi’s forces besieging cities in the western mountain range,
said Abdel Hafiz Ghoga, vice president of the rebels’ National
Transitional Council.  “We hope for greater intervention to protect our people
and civilians,” Ghoga said in an interview late yesterday in
Benghazi, the rebels’ eastern stronghold. “As long as there is
a threat to civilians, strikes must be intensified against the
military machine” of the Libyan leader.  The conflict that has been raging for three months between
Qaddafi’s troops and rebels opposing his four-decade rule has
left most of the east in rebel hands, curbed the country’s oil
exports and drawn in a NATO air campaign against pro-government
forces. Uprisings in the Arab world led to the toppling of the
leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia  and inspired pro-democracy protests
across the region, including in Yemen and  Syria .  The unrest in Libya, holder of  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, caused supplies from the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries to decline last month, the  International
Energy Agency  said on May 12. Supplies from the North African
nation “will remain absent from the market for the rest of
2011,” the agency said.  Crude for June delivery fell $1.12, or 1.1 percent, to
$98.98 a barrel at 10:52 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have risen 42 percent in the past year.  ‘Better Job’  The casualty figure is certain to exceed 15,000 though
“the exact number will become clear when military operations
are stopped,” Ghoga said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization is “doing a better
job now” protecting civilians in Libya, he said, though more
NATO attacks are needed in the western mountains, where fighting
has flared. “The towns of the western mountains are still
besieged, attacked and shelled,” Ghoga said. “The  living
conditions  are difficult.”  Qaddafi “is trying to choke off our people in these towns
by desperately trying to control the Wazin crossing point” with
Tunisia, “which is the only lifeline for our people” in the
area, he said.  The situation in the Nafusa Mountains in western Libya is
worsening, the rebel council said today. Qaddafi’s forces are
preventing aid from entering the village of Kiklah and stopping
the wounded from leaving, it said in a statement.  Smuggled Atop Donkeys  “Many of the wounded have had to be smuggled out of the
area on donkeys,” the council said.  Other areas in the mountain range are also being besieged
and the main hospital in the town of Yafren is running out of
supplies, it said. The council said it has made “urgent calls
for assistance in providing a safe corridor to deliver
humanitarian aid” and allow the evacuation of the wounded.  Saleh Mohammed, a member of the local council of Zintan in
the mountains, said Qaddafi “is trying to starve the people and
leave them with no fuel so they will surrender,” adding in an
interview in Benghazi: “There’s no milk for the children.”  More than 2,000 forces loyal to Qaddafi have amassed about
50 kilometers (31 miles) east of the western port city of
Misrata, Ghoga said.  ‘Rebels Are Ready’  “This is to attack the city, which has been fully
liberated,” he said. “Our rebels are ready. Their morale is
high and they are able to defeat any attempt by Qaddafi to
attack Misrata.”  Ghoga said a Russian call on Qaddafi’s regime to stop
attacks on civilians is a “positive development.” Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said after meeting with a Qaddafi
envoy in Moscow on May 17 that  Russia  “urged the Libyan
leadership to fully implement the UN Security Council
resolutions, which demand an end to any attacks on civilians.”  While the rebels haven’t been presented with a Russian
initiative, “we don’t object to dealing with any proposal that
fulfills the aspirations of the Libyan people and insists
Qaddafi and his sons leave power,” Ghoga said.  Lavrov said a delegation from Benghazi that had been
invited to Moscow delayed its trip for “technical” reasons.
Ghoga said the rebels haven’t been invited to Russia.  Russia has criticized the NATO-led air campaign that
allowed the rebels to regain the initiative against Qaddafi. It
accused the U.S. and its allies of violating the March Security
Council vote that authorized military intervention to protect
civilians and in which Russia abstained.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariam Fam in Benghazi, Libya, at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  