-- 
Iceland Declares Victory Over Credit Downgrade, Revives Eurobond Ambition

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:23:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/iceland-declares-victory-on-downgrade-revives-eurobond-plans.html
Iceland is reviving plans to sell
Eurobonds this year after avoiding a credit downgrade as the
fallout of an international depositor claims dispute recedes,
Finance Minister Steingrimur J. Sigfusson said.  “This is a defensive victory and the danger of getting a
credit downgrade has been averted,” Sigfusson said in a phone
interview in Reykjavik. Asked how that affects Iceland’s plans
to sell Eurobonds for the first time since 2006, he said “we
can now review our position” and “we’ll do that -- that’s for
sure.”  Fitch Ratings  on May 16 raised the outlook on Iceland’s
junk grade to stable from negative, while Standard & Poor’s a
day later removed the island’s BBB- rating from CreditWatch
negative. The government shelved its Eurobond plans after voters
last month rejected a $5.9 billion depositor claims accord with
the U.K. and  Netherlands . Both rating companies said this week
the so-called Icesave dispute, which will now be settled through
an international court battle, is unlikely to derail Iceland’s
recovery.  The island’s Eurobond plans “were put on hold while we
waited for what the outcome would be following the Icesave
referendum,” Sigfusson said. “Now we believe the picture is
pretty clear, following the latest estimate from the rating
companies and now we can sit down and review the position. The
plans are in place and we’re considering them for this year.”  CDS Beat  Spain   Credit default swaps on Iceland’s government debt have
eased almost 20 percent since the end of April as investors see
a reduced risk of default. CDS on five-year debt dropped to 210
basis points yesterday, the lowest since June 2008. The cost of
insuring against an Icelandic default is now lower than that of
guarding against losses on debt sold by Spain, the fourth-
largest economy in the euro area.  Iceland’s CDS “properly reflect the  risk premium  we can
expect on Icelandic bonds,” said Gisli Hauksson, an economist
at Reykjavik-based asset manager Gamma. “However, we expect
that investors that participate in the first offering will enjoy
very good terms in comparison with the issues that will
follow.”  “It’s obvious that our position is much better now,”
Sigfusson said in the May 17 interview. The government’s plans
to sell Eurobonds “are in place and we’ll now consider them in
light of the fact that our credit grade has been upheld,” he
said. Sigfusson declined to give more details of the timing.  ‘Coming Weeks’  The government is likely to start a roadshow to drum up
investor interest in “coming weeks” with a view to selling its
first Eurobond next quarter, said Jon Bjarki Bentsson, an
economist at Islandsbanki hf in Reykjavik.  “It is quite important to launch a new issue in hard
currency this year, both due to upcoming maturities and also
because such an issue would prove the ability of Iceland to
access international markets, pace the way for issues by other
Icelandic names and facilitate the lifting of  capital
controls ,” he said.  Iceland has reduced its reliance on foreign funding by
repurchasing Eurobonds due this year and next. The country
bought back 346 million euros ($493 million) this month, leaving
about 454 million euros outstanding, the  central bank  said on
May 6. The island had foreign reserves of 759.2 billion kronur
($6.6 billion) in April.  ‘On Track’  The “repurchase of the Treasury’s Eurobonds has resulted
in lower CDS spreads for the simple reason that now the volume
of outstanding bonds that need to be guaranteed is considerably
smaller than it was a year ago,” Islandsbanki head of economic
research Ingolfur Bender said in a note. “This is,
nevertheless, positive news for the Treasury, since the CDS
spreads on Iceland give some indication of the terms the
Treasury can expect when it decides to issue foreign currency
bonds.”  The Treasury will probably sell about 500 million euros
denominated either in euros or dollars, Bentsson said.  “Iceland’s economy is close to stabilizing and could post
growth of around 2 percent in 2011,” Fitch said this week.
“Fiscal consolidation is on track.” The island’s “foreign
debt service is secure,” Fitch also said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  