-- 
Time Warner Cable Selling First Bonds in British Pounds

-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:07:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/time-warner-cable-selling-first-bonds-in-british-pounds-1-.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , the second-
largest U.S. cable-television provider, is raising 625 million
pounds ($1 billion) from its first bond sale in the currency as
issuance of pound-denominated debt soars.  The notes will be priced to yield 1.53 percentage points
more than U.K. government debt, according to a banker involved
in the transaction. Proceeds from the 20-year notes will be used
for general corporate purposes, which may include the repayment
of debt, the New York-based company said in a statement.  “The company is looking to diversify away because they
were always exclusively only ever funded in dollars and they’re
suddenly realizing that it makes sense to approach another set
of investors,” said Marco Baldini, head of European corporate
bond syndication at  Barclays Capital , one of the banks that is
managing the deal. “It takes the pressure off their home market
and their home investors.”  Time Warner Cable is the first U.S. non-financial company
to sell debt in pounds since Comcast Corp. raised 625 million
pounds from 19-year bonds in November, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Investment-grade corporate bond sales in
the U.K. currency jumped to 3.3 billion pounds this month, from
none in April, data show.  The company’s first-quarter net income rose to $325 million
from $214 million a year earlier, it said on April 28. Excluding
one-time costs, earnings per share were $1.01, topping the 99-
cent estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Time Warner
Cable last sold bonds in November, when it raised $1.9 billion
from a two-part offering to pay for buying back shares and
refinancing debt.  Time Warner Cable spokesman Justin Venech said selling
bonds in pounds enabled the company to diversify its investor
base and was “attractive financing.”  Barclays, Deutsche Bank AG, Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc and UBS AG are managing the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net . 