-- 
Strauss-Kahn Resigns as IMF Managing Director

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-19T08:23:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/imf-says-strauss-kahn-resigns-effective-immediately-after-arrest.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , once
considered a leading contender to win the French presidency next
year, resigned as head of the  International Monetary Fund  after
being charged with attempting to rape a New York hotel maid.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, informed the Executive Board of the IMF
of his intention to resign as managing director with immediate
effect, the IMF said in an e-mailed statement.  “I want to protect this institution which I have served
with honor and devotion, and especially -- especially -- I want
to devote all my strength, all my time, and all my energy to
proving my innocence,” Strauss-Kahn said in a letter included
in the IMF’s statement.  Strauss-Kahn’s arrest reshaped the race for the French
presidency, eliminating President  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s biggest
rival. His resignation from the IMF, more than 17 months before
his term was scheduled to end, opens the fight for succession
between Europeans that have held the job for 65 years and
emerging markets such as South Africa and  Russia  that seek to
end the monopoly.  “Strauss-Kahn was an important figure and it will cast a
long shadow on the IMF even though he has resigned,” said
Venkatraman Anantha-Nageswaran, the Singapore-based global chief
investment officer at Bank Julius Baer & Co., which has about
$304 billion of client assets. “Now that he has departed, the
stakes are high and the Europeans will dig in their heels to
keep the top seat for themselves. There will be a lot of
bargaining taking place before his successor is appointed.”  Charges Denied  Strauss-Kahn denied charges that he attacked a 32-year-old
woman at a Sofitel hotel in midtown  Manhattan  on May 14. He was
ordered held without bail by a New York judge after prosecutors
said he presented a flight risk and he is now asking a second
judge to release him on bail. He had been taken into custody and
removed from an Air France flight at John F. Kennedy
International Airport.  The IMF chief is charged with criminal sexual act,
attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible
touching, according to court papers. Strauss-Kahn, a former
French finance minister, faces as long as 25 years in prison if
convicted of the most serious charges, prosecutors said. His
lawyer said he will plead not guilty.  Acting Head  John Lipsky, the first deputy managing director at the IMF,
was serving as acting managing director while Strauss-Kahn was
out of  Washington , in accordance with standard IMF practice.  The IMF, set up after World War II to promote global
financial stability, said it will “communicate in the near
future on the Executive Board’s process of selecting a new
managing director,” adding that Lipsky remains acting chief.  “Strauss-Kahn’s resignation clears the path for the IMF
Board to shift from crisis mode to credibility mode,” said
Julie Chon, senior fellow at the Atlantic Council and former
senior adviser to the U.S. Senate Banking Committee. “The Board
should now formally appoint  John Lipsky  as managing director and
announce a longer-term plan for Fund leadership that will
increase transparency and geographic diversity.”  Doing so would remove any question as to who speaks for the
IMF during European sovereign debt negotiations, provide
continuity of leadership, and buy the Fund time to evaluate
longer term leadership options, she said.  Strauss-Kahn’s arrest cast a shadow over a meeting of
European finance chiefs in Brussels, who on May 16 endorsed a 78
billion-euro ($111 billion) aid package for  Portugal , the third
euro-area country to receive a bailout after  Greece  and Ireland.  Europe  Risk  The IMF was represented at the euro-area finance ministers’
meeting by Deputy Managing Director Nemat Shafik, who oversees
the organization’s work in a number of European Union nations.
Seventeen nations use the euro.  European officials are working to prevent the region’s
first default as Greek ministers plead for terms to be relaxed
on 110 billion euros of aid from the IMF and European Union.  “It’s certainly, in these negotiations with Europe, very
hard to replace him,” said David Dodge, a former governor of
the Bank of  Canada . “He understands so deeply and profoundly
the European political and economic situation. I don’t think
there’s anyone at the Fund who would come close to having
that.”  Strauss-Kahn has consistently been among the most popular
possible candidates to contest  France ’s 2012 presidential
election, opinion polls show.  Opinion Polls  Sarkozy would have trailed Strauss-Kahn by 5 percentage
points in the first round of the presidential voting if the
election had been held at the end of last month, a CSA poll for
20 Minutes newspaper, BFM Television and RMC radio showed April
28. Strauss-Kahn had declined to say whether he was planning to
run for office.  Strauss-Kahn’s arrest improves the odds for his Socialist
Party rival, Francois Hollande. The two-round French
presidential elections will be held April 29 and May 6, 2012.
The Socialist Party plans to hold its primaries in October. The
ruling Union for a Popular Movement has no primaries planned and
Sarkozy, 56, has yet to declare his candidacy.  Strauss-Kahn was chosen in 2007 to a five-year IMF term in
keeping with an informal agreement under which a European heads
the fund while an American leads the  World Bank .  The World Bank saw its own chief resign when former U.S.
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul Wolfowitz quit in May 2007 after
controversy over his role in a pay increase for his companion.  Emerging Markets  The announcement may bolster a drive by  Brazil ,  China  and
other emerging markets for a selection process that’s based on
qualifications rather than nationality. Officials have already
starting jockeying for the post.  At stake is leadership of an institution that approved a
record $91.7 billion in emergency loans last year and provides a
third of bailout packages in Europe.  European officials this week including German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  closed ranks to defend their hold over the top job,
with finance ministers from  Sweden  to  Spain  saying the region
needs one of its own to get a handle on its debt crisis.  They were rebuffed by  South Africa  and Russia who say the
next chief should come from an emerging economy. Still,
developing economies haven’t aligned behind a name.  Potential candidates include Singapore Finance Minister
Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Trevor Manuel, head of South Africa’s
National Planning Commission, and Kemal Dervis, who was  Turkey ’s
minister of economic affairs at a time his country got aid from
the IMF, according to Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at the
Brookings Institution in Washington and a former IMF official.  ‘Merit-Based’  On the European side, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg
endorsed his French counterpart  Christine Lagarde , telling Sky
News yesterday that she “presents very strong leadership.”  The choice “should be absolutely merit-based,” said Dodge.
“But I would argue that, all other things being equal, it would
be very nice to have someone who has at least deep roots in, if
not necessarily a current representative of, one of the major
emerging-market countries.”  Strauss-Kahn took the helm of the IMF in November 2007,
following his loss in the primaries of his French Socialist
Party ahead of the 2007 presidential elections.  Strauss-Kahn, who succeeded Spain’s Rodrigo Rato, helped
reshape the agency’s mission and restore its relevance. When he
arrived, its emergency lending dropped to $58.7 million in 2006
from $66.4 billion in 2002. Among his first moves there was to
cut about 400 jobs.  The global financial panic triggered by the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008 restored the
IMF’s relevance as its emergency loans soared to a record of
$91.7 billion last year from $1.1 billion in 2007.  New Missions  Strauss-Kahn gained backing from the Group of 20 to triple
the fund’s resources, and the group has over the past two years
given the agency a host of new missions to help avoid another
crisis. The IMF is helping the G-20 single out countries whose
policies threaten global growth, and has also submitted
proposals to fortify the international monetary system.  More recently, he played a key role in efforts to stem the
European debt crisis which started last year in Greece, with a
pledge to contribute about a third of future bailouts in the
region by the European Union. The IMF has co-funded aid packages
to Greece and Ireland.  Under Strauss-Kahn, the IMF also approved a plan that will
make China the third-strongest voice in the 187-member
organization, founded in 1945, while weakening Europe’s
influence to make room for emerging countries.  “I think also of my colleagues at the Fund,” Strauss-Kahn
said in his letter. “Together we have accomplished such great
things over the last three years and more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  