-- 
Limited Falls After Profit Forecast Meets Estimates

-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 
2011-05-19T19:17:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/limited-brands-falls-after-profit-forecast-meets-estimates.html
(Corrects executive’s title in third paragraph.)  Limited Brands Inc., owner of the
Victoria’s Secret lingerie chain, forecast second-quarter profit
that met analysts’ estimates and said rising costs will hurt
margins this year. The stock dropped the most in two months.  Profit will be in a range of 38 cents to 43 cents a share
in the three months ending July 31, the Columbus, Ohio-based
company said yesterday in a statement after U.S. markets closed.
Analysts projected 43 cents, the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We continue to expect some impact from increasing cost
pressures this fall and therefore our outlook does call for some
decline in our merchandise margin rate in 2011,” Chief
Financial Officer Stuart Burgdoerfer said today on a conference
call with analysts. The company still expects this year’s gross
margin rate to be slightly up from last year’s 37.8 percent, he
said.  The retailer has boosted sales over the past year at
Victoria’s Secret, its largest chain, and Bath & Body Works by
introducing fashionable and decorative items at a faster pace as
 consumer spending  rebounded from the worst recession in 70
years. Revenue surged 15 percent in the first quarter to $2.22
billion, led by a 19 percent gain at Victoria’s Secret.  Limited fell $1.45, or 3.4 percent, to $42 at 1:07 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier
touched $40.62 for the largest intraday decline since March 15.  The company also forecast sales at stores open a year to
increase by low- to mid-single digits for the second quarter and
for the year. The retailer posted a 9 percent gain in so-called
same-store sales, a key measure of a retailer’s growth because
new and closed stores are excluded, last year after three
straight annual declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at   rajello@bloomberg.net  