-- 
Insurers May Owe More Than $1 Billion in Unpaid Policy Benefits

-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 
2011-05-19T19:39:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/insurers-may-owe-more-than-1-billion-in-unpaid-policy-benefits.html
Life insurers may be keeping at least
$1 billion in unclaimed benefits owed to policyholders,
beneficiaries or states, according to a  Florida  regulator.  Florida Insurance Commissioner Kevin McCarty, who made the
estimate, said it was a “conservative number,” in a conference
with reporters during a break in a hearing today in Tallahassee.
Officials from  MetLife Inc. (MET) , the largest U.S. life insurer, and
Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co., the policyholder-owned insurer,
were subpoenaed to appear at a hearing by the Florida Office of
Insurance Regulation to explain how they determine when
policyholders have died.  “We want to ensure that insurance companies use as much
effort to find and pay benefits as they do to find and collect
premiums,” McCarty said during the call with reporters.  The hearing, which was attended by representatives from
about 15 states, was held to help determine whether life
insurers use Social Security Administration death records to
stop annuity payments, without using that same data to identify
life insurance policyholders who have died.  Liability for  life insurance  begins when the company
receives proof of death, which is different than what happens in
the annuity business, according to testimony by Todd Katz,
executive vice president of insurance products for  New York- 
based MetLife. If annuities continue to be paid out to deceased
recipients, the insurer may have to reclaim those payments, he
said.  Death List Check  MetLife began using Social Security data to stop some
annuity payouts starting in the late 1980s, Katz said. The
insurance company started using the death list to identify some
life insurance policyholders’ deaths around 2004. The insurer
used the death record to conduct a sweep of most of its life
insurance policies in 2007 and in 2010 decided it would check
the list at least once a year. When matches are made, an
investigation begins and beneficiaries are contacted, Katz said.  MetLife paid more than $11 billion to beneficiaries in 2010
and turned over $51 million to the states, according to a
statement from the insurer.  Using the Social Security death list “can be valuable as
an aid in preventing errors and fraud and as a safety net to
identify the small fraction of deceased insureds and account
holders for which the company may not receive a claim in the
ordinary course,” a MetLife statement said.  MetLife officials have also been subpoenaed to appear at a
hearing in  California  on May 23. The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners, the organization of state regulators,
said this week it had formed a national task force, led by
Florida, to help coordinate investigations into whether
companies failed to pay benefits to beneficiaries of life
insurance policies.  Hancock Settlement  The group includes members from California,  Illinois ,  Iowa ,
 Louisiana ,  New Hampshire ,  New Jersey , North Dakota,  Pennsylvania 
and West Virginia, according to a statement from the NAIC. Model
laws may be established to provide more uniformity for unclaimed
benefit practices, McCarty said.  Florida’s insurance office announced a settlement with John
Hancock yesterday, in which the insurer agreed to pay money to
beneficiaries with interest dating from the date of death. The
settlement also includes a payment of $3 million to the state,
of which $600,000 was waived, according to a statement from the
insurance office.  John Hancock, a unit of Toronto-based  Manulife Financial
Corp. (MFC) , agreed to restore the full value of more than 6,400
accounts, denied any wrongdoing and also agreed to establish a
$10 million fund to facilitate payments to beneficiaries that
cannot be contacted, the statement said.  “This agreement is consistent with John Hancock’s
longstanding commitment to keeping our promises to owners and
beneficiaries of our products,” the company said in statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net  