-- 
Insurers to Face ‘Tepid Market’ Absent Hurricanes, Hiscox Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/insurers-to-face-tepid-market-absent-hurricanes-hiscox-says.html
Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , the second-biggest
Lloyd’s of London insurer by market value, said the cost of
coverage may fall unless hurricanes cause at least $10 billion
in industry losses in the U.S. this year.  “If we have another hurricane-free year, it will be a
tepid market,” Bronek Masojada, Hiscox’s chief executive
officer, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in  New
York  yesterday. A “material event,” such as a $10 billion to
$20 billion loss from a hurricane striking the U.S., would lead
to further price increases, he said.  The pace of decline for insurance rates slowed in the first
quarter -- or began to rise for some types of commercial
coverage -- after catastrophes including the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami in Japan and flooding in Australia. Natural
disasters erased underwriting gains in the period at the
insurance operations at  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  and profit at
 Munich Re , the world’s largest reinsurer.  “Because of those losses around the world, people are
nervous, so prices are going up,” said Masojada, 49. “They’re
going up for catastrophe-exposed business by 10 percent.”  Hiscox insures assets such as ships, planes and oil rigs
through its London market business. The Bermuda-based company
also sells reinsurance, or coverage for primary carriers.  The  Atlantic hurricane season , which runs from June through
November, will be “above normal” this year with 12 to 18 named
storms, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said
yesterday in a  statement . Six to 10 of those storms may become
hurricanes. Last year’s hurricane season was the third-most
active on record, with 19 named storms, including 12 hurricanes.  The costliest hurricane in U.S. history was Katrina, which
struck in 2005 and cost insurers $45.1 billion, adjusted for
inflation, according to the  Insurance Information Institute , a
trade group. Andrew, which struck in 1992, was the second-most
expensive at $22.2 billion, followed by Hurricane Ike in 2008 at
$12.6 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  