-- 
Intesa Sanpaolo Prices Stock at 25% Discount as Bank Increases Its Capital

-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 
2011-05-20T13:23:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/intesa-sanpaolo-prices-stock-at-25-discount-as-bank-increases-its-capital.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  will sell new
shares at about one-fourth less than yesterday’s closing price
in a 5 billion-euro ($7.1 billion) offer, as the lender
strengthens finances before stricter capital rules are approved.  Intesa will sell stock at 1.369 euros each and offer 2
common shares for every 7 common or savings shares held,  Italy ’s
second-biggest bank said in a statement yesterday. The price is
24 percent less than the theoretical value of the shares
excluding the rights.  Investors including Compagnia di San Paolo, Fondazione
Cassa di Risparmio di Padova e Rovigo, and Fondazione Cariplo,
have already said that they will fully subscribe their rights
for 24 percent of the offer.  “The stock will be ideally positioned to take full
advantage of the cyclical upturn we expect in the Italian
banking market,” Silvia Benzi, an analyst at Cheuvreux with a
“strong buy” recommendation, wrote in a note today.  Intesa is boosting capital in response to a request from
central bankers and policy makers seeking to avert a repeat of a
global financial crisis. Chief Executive Officer  Corrado Passera 
said April 6 that Intesa aims to increase the common equity
ratio to 10 percent, to comply with “what is believed will
become the ‘new normal’ for Basel III” capital rules.  Intesa’s investors can exercise rights to buy stock from
May 23 to June 10, while the rights will be tradable from May 23
to June 3, it said yesterday.  Intesa fell 0.4 percent to 2 euros in Milan, giving the
company a market value of 25.4 billion euros. The Bloomberg
Banks and Financial Services Index, which was up 0.1 percent
today, has declined 1 percent in the past six months, compared
with Intesa’s 11 percent decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  