-- 
Intuit Forecasts Fourth-Quarter Sales That Miss Some Analysts’ Estimates

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-19T23:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/intuit-forecasts-quarterly-sales-below-analysts-estimates-shares-decline.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , seller of the TurboTax
online tax-preparation software, forecast fourth-quarter sales
that missed some analysts’ estimates.  Revenue in the quarter ending July 31 will be $567 million
to $587 million, Intuit said in a statement today. Analysts on
average projected $587.2 million, based on a Bloomberg survey.
Excluding some items, Intuit said earnings will range from a
loss of 2 cents a share to a profit of 2 cents, compared with
average predictions for a loss of less than 1 cent. The shares
slipped in extended trading.  “The top end of the fourth-quarter revenue guidance was
where the consensus was,” Yun Kim, an analyst with Gleacher &
Co. who recommends investors buy the company’s stock. “Fourth-
quarter revenue guidance could be interpreted as conservative.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith , aiming to reduce
Intuit’s reliance on tax-preparation products, has been seeking
to transform Intuit from a maker of financial software for
personal computers to a provider of websites, services and
programs that help consumers and small businesses manage money.
This year has been a “tough one to model by quarter,” Smith
said in an interview after the report.  “I think it was a really complicated year to try to create
models around if you’re in the analyst business,” Smith said.  One-time events, including an accounting adjustment and an
acquisition, that benefitted results in last year’s fourth
quarter may have led analysts to expect similar gains in the
recent period, he said.  Annual Forecast  Intuit, based in  Mountain View ,  California , rose $1.62 to
$55.90 at 4 p.m. New York time on the Nasdaq Stock Market. The
shares have gained 13 percent this year. The stock fell as low
as $53.26 after the earnings report.  The company expects yearly revenue to be $3.83 billion to
$3.85 billion, compared with its previous forecast of $3.74
billion to $3.84 billion, the company said in the statement.  The quarter coinciding with U.S. tax-filing season marks
Intuit’s most profitable period of the year, when it typically
books more than 90 percent of its annual earnings. Net income in
the third quarter, which ended April 30, rose to $688 million,
or $2.20 a share, from $576 million, or $1.78, a year earlier,
the company said in the statement.  Excluding some costs, third-quarter profit increased to
$2.33 a share on sales of $1.85 billion. Analysts on average
projected profit of $2.28 a share on revenue of $1.82 billion,
based on a Bloomberg survey.  International Expansion  The company is expanding its  Mint.com  website and
QuickBooks Online financial software internationally, Smith said
in an April interview. Intuit also is developing a version of
its GoPayment credit card-swiping technology for tablet
computers, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc.’s Xoom.  “The question people are asking themselves is how well is
the rest of the business going to do in the six months that we
don’t care about taxes as much,” said Gil Luria, an analyst at
Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , who expects the stock to
outperform the market.  Intuit may make more acquisitions in the coming year,
focusing on products that help small businesses gain and hold on
to customers from startups that take advantage of smartphones
and tablets, Smith said.  “Where we’re leaning into the wind is online and
mobile,” he said. “If you look at our track record, we’ve done
several over the last 15 to 18 months. So that neighborhood of a
handful every 12 to 15 months tends to be our track.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  