-- 
Investec’s Annual Profit Surges 21% on Its Wealth, Asset Management Units

-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 
2011-05-19T10:44:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/investec-full-year-adjusted-earnings-per-share-unexpectedly-declines-4-2-.html
Investec Plc (INVP)  led gains on the FTSE
100 share index after the South African private bank boosted its
dividend and reported a 21 percent increase in full-year profit.  Net income rose to 420.5 million pounds ($678.8 million) in
the 12 months ended March 31, from 346.1 million pounds a year
earlier, the  London  and Johannesburg-listed lender said today in
a statement. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Koseff said the
dividend, which climbed 6.3 percent to 17 pence, could rise
further in the current financial year.  The dividend increase is “positive” because many other
banks are holding onto capital given the regulatory outlook,
said Neville Chester, who helps oversee more than $33 billion at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML)  in  Cape Town .  Investec is moving away from lending to conserve capital
while investing in its asset-management and wealth business to
boost earnings. The bank, which is traded in London and
Johannesburg, bought British fund manager Rensburg Sheppards Plc
in March last year to expand the division, which now accounts
for almost 40 percent of operating profit.  Investec rose as much as 6.6 percent, the biggest intraday
gain in almost 12 months, and was up 6.3 percent at 490.9 pence
as of 11:42 a.m. in London.  “It’s a good turnaround story that says earnings should
grow,” Koseff said in a phone interview from London. “In the
past, people might have been battling with when things would get
tidied up.”  Transaction Flows  The bank wants to expand into  India  and  Hong Kong  to
capture more of the transaction flows between Chinese and Indian
companies buying resources in Africa and  Australia . This year it
bought Access Capital in Hong Kong and has received South
African regulatory approval to set up an advisory business in
India, according to Koseff.  Investec’s strategy “looks on track” and Koseff made a
point of saying there will be no major negative impact from
regulation expected in the U.K., said Patrice Rassou, a banking
portfolio manager at Cape Town-based Sanlam Investment
Management.  Investec’s credit-loss ratio of 1.27 percent was
“marginally” ahead of expectations, the lender said, adding
that it expects the ratio to decline over the next 12 months.  “We expect earnings to benefit from continued momentum in
our businesses and the normalizing of impairment losses,”
Koseff said in the statement. “Regulatory uncertainties remain
and we will continue to maintain excess levels of liquidity and
capital until there is further clarity.”  The Tier 1 capital ratios for Investec Plc and  Investec
Ltd. (INL)  were 11.6 percent and 11.9 percent respectively.  The bank reported adjusted earnings per share of 43.2
pence, below the median 45.15 pence estimate of nine analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  