-- 
Treacherous ‘Old Girl’ Mississippi Tasks Pilots Ferrying Toxic Chemicals

-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mississippi-flooding-adds-danger-for-pilots-ferrying-oil-toxic-chemicals.html
The first signs of Captain Cory F.
Heitmeier’s unsettling work on the mighty  Mississippi  this week
came before he even boarded a boat.  At the dock where the river pilot would catch a crewboat to
an awaiting Panamanian-flagged freighter, a temporary gravel
driveway had been constructed to cover creeping water and a car
in the nearby parking lot was inundated half-way up its doors.  Heitmeier and his fellow pilots help keep the 500 million
tons of cargo that passes through the mouth of the Mississippi
each year flowing around the clock. On the best of days, the job
can be tricky on the fourth-longest river on the planet, full of
shifting currents, submerged hazards and constant traffic.  With the river stoked as it is now by a deluge of northern
rain and melted snow, Heitmeier’s task becomes treacherous and
wisdom reaches its limit.  “On the river, if you screw up, someone can get killed or
you can wipe out an entire population,” Heitmeier said.  Historic flooding along the Mississippi in recent weeks has
limited the amount of freight moving on the river and pushed
much of it to the daylight hours.  60% of Grain  The Mississippi and its connecting waterways are home to
20,500 barges, according to a 2010 report by  Informa Economics 
Inc., a Memphis, Tennessee-based research firm. Much of the rest
of the traffic on the river comes from tankers and cargo ships
moving in and out of the  Gulf of Mexico  to far-flung corners of
the globe.  Cargo passing through the Port of  New Orleans , part of the
stretch of river Heitmeier works, accounts for about  $37 billion 
a year of national economic output, said Chris Bonura, a
spokesperson, in a telephone interview. About 60 percent of all
grain exported from the U.S. is shipped on the Mississippi
through the Port of New Orleans and the Port of South Louisiana,
according to the  U.S. National Park Service  website.  Water this high breaks any workaday routine that settles in
on those who toil on the river. It is a kind of high alert. The
commerce changes, too. Normally, a towboat might push 30 to 40
barges weighing from 1,200 to 1,500 tons up the river, said
Steve Jones, navigation manager for the  Army Corps of Engineer’s
Mississippi Valley Division . Conditions have cut that number to
about 20 barges per towboat.  ‘Floating Bo..’  The risks to ships on what river pilots call the “old
girl” are both financial and human. Tankers carry everything
from oil to toxic chemicals. A spill could be catastrophic to
ship crews and nearby towns. A wayward ship breaking into levees
that line the river could cause disastrous flooding, Heitmeier
said.  “Some of these things are floating bo…,” he said,
stopping short of the word “bombs.” “I don’t even like to
think of it.”  Ships on the Mississippi are required to hire licensed
river pilots stationed locally to take over navigation of the
waterway. Pilots know every nook and cranny of the river.
Heitmeier, a 10-year veteran, had to draw in detail the 147
miles, or 237 kilometers, of the Mississippi he’s certified to
pilot, including every underwater pipeline and navigation
beacon. He has to know every depth, every slope on the river’s
muddy bottom.  Swelling Currents  On most days, Heitmeier’s commute to work includes a ride
on a crewboat to whatever ship awaits his command. The
freighters are rarely stopped. He typically climbs a rope ladder
several stories to the deck. This day, however, the client ship
is anchored and has been unable to free itself because of the
heavy silt pushed down the muddy river by swelling currents.  The Federal Baffin, a bulk carrier longer than two football
fields, has shipped a load of potash fertilizer on a 22-day
journey from  St. Petersburg ,  Russia . The freighter, equipped
with four cranes and a helicopter pad, will pick up a load of
gravel for a 31-day sail to  Japan .  The crewboat nuzzles up to what looks, up close, like the
side of a steel building. Heitmeier, shouldering a large
backpack, waits for the tiny boat to rise before hopping onto a
metal staircase hanging over the ship’s side. Wearing khaki
pants and a blue madras button-down Brooks Brothers shirt, the
37-year-old looks like a banker on casual Friday.  Heitmeier, who shaves his head clean, will guide the ship
out of its anchorage and navigate four miles up river to a set
of four bouys, where it will be tied and unloaded.  ‘Most Dangerous’  “This is one of the most dangerous things we do,” he
said. Especially now. “Just how high the damned thing is. How
fast it’s moving.”  Once on the bridge at the top of the freighter, Heitmeier
is in charge. Even the ship’s full-time captain will answer to
him. Communication will be tricky. The captain, a Chinese
national, speaks broken English. The chief mate below, who
coordinates the anchors and other rigging, speaks Russian.
Heitmeier already anticipates the commands  “Starboard 10” 
(turn right 10 degrees) and “Stop Engine” will be confused.  Heitmeier, a  Louisiana State University  political science
graduate, sets up a laptop with satellite navigation software
that shows a detailed schematic of the river and traffic. The
sparse bridge, with its sterile light green instrument panels,
looks like the control room of a nuclear plant one might see in
a movie. From this vantage point, Heitmeier is higher than the
tree line on either side of the Mississippi, which laps mere
feet from the top of the levees. Dozens of barges are tied down
on both banks.  Heroic Striker  Before the short trip begins, Heitmeier sees something that
gives him pause. In front of him, the currents are pushing
another cargo ship, the Heroic Striker, in an unnatural angle
toward the shore and too close for comfort to the levee. He
relaxes after a few minutes of watching.  The high, fast water causes other problems. Boats must take
water into their  hulls  as ballast so they can set lower in the
river to clear bridges, making them even slower to respond to
 rudder controls . Ships traveling down the river actually have to
go faster than usual to counter the current. Ships going up
river cruise more slowly against the current even as they use
more power to compensate, leaving less power for emergency
maneuvers.  On the many curves in the river, ships have to make larger
corrections to account for currents that can push them off
course and potentially into a bridge or the path of another
vessel. Earlier in the day, a ship’s  anchor  snapped off in the
hard current.  Language Barrier  “With the river like this, you have to be on top of it,”
he said. “One minor little thing that you overlook can cause
everything to go wrong.”  Once underway, it wasn’t long before the language barrier
caused problems. Approaching a turn, Heitmeier called out “hard
to starboard” for a right turn. The second mate repeated the
command. The  quartermaster  turned the rudder wheel left. Seeing
the error on a compass above, Heitmeier commanded  “midship,” 
asking for the rudder to be centered. Once again, the
quartermaster turned the wheel hard left to the port side of the
ship.  Heitmeier began snapping as he barked to the captain to
boost the ship’s power to “sea speed,” which is used on the
ocean and held in reserve on the river. The captain was slow to
respond, prompting Heitmeier to snap louder and faster at the
compass above. “Sea speed, captain. Emergency sea speed, now.”  The additional power pushed the ship back onto course after
a wheel correction, turning the vessel away from a line of
barges tied to a loading dock. Heitmeier ordered the
quartermaster replaced.  “That’s only the second time in my career that I’ve had to
order the quartermaster changed,” he said.  Then, this was no ordinary week on the Mississippi.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane Stanford in  Baton Rouge , Louisiana at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anita Sharpe at   asharpe6@bloomberg.net  