-- 
Japan’s Non-Life Insurers See 228 Billion Yen Profit This Year After Quake

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-19T07:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/japan-s-non-life-insurers-forecast-profit-this-year-after-quake-losses.html
Japan ’s three-biggest casualty
insurers, including  MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings (8725)  Inc.,
forecast 228 billion yen ($2.8 billion) in net income for this
fiscal year after posting a decline in profit following the
nation’s strongest earthquake in March.  The non-life insurers posted a combined full-year profit of
64.4 billion yen for the year ended March 31 on insurance
payments related to the magnitude-9 temblor and valuation losses
on their securities holdings. The three companies expect
insurance claims that will affect their earnings to total 203.6
billion yen, according to their statements.  While claim losses are limited for Japan’s non-life
insurers, which are protected under a government framework that
limits coverage, their assets dropped in value as stocks fell
following the March 11 disaster. The three insurers posted
losses on securities holdings of 65.9 billion yen, 37 percent
higher from a year earlier.  MS&AD Insurance Group, Japan’s biggest casualty insurer,
expects profit to rise to 67 billion yen for the year through
March 2012 from 5.42 billion yen a year earlier.  Tokio Marine
Holdings Inc. (8766) , the second biggest, is forecasting annual profit
to more than double to 145 billion yen, while  NKSJ Holdings Inc. (8630) ,
the third largest, said it expects to return to profit of 16
billion yen, according to company statements.  Earthquake Insurance  Residential earthquake insurance in Japan is structured so
that much of the risk is reinsured to the government. Coverage
for nuclear power also comes under the government, shielding
local insurers from potential claims from the accident at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant that followed the quake and tsunami.  Non-life insurers have set aside reserves for earthquakes
that they can tap for claims, according to Japan’s  General
Insurance Association , while Japan Earthquake Reinsurance will
pay all losses amounting to 115 billion yen on residential
earthquake insurance, it said.  MS&AD shares rose 1.3 percent to 1,917 yen, Tokio Marine
advanced 3.4 percent to 2,271 yen and NKSJ climbed 1 percent to
510 yen at the close of trading in  Tokyo  today.  The following table shows net income of Japan’s three-
biggest casualty insurers for the 12 months ended March 31, as
well as their forecasts for this fiscal year. Bloomberg News
compiled the figures from their statements released today. All
numbers are in millions of yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  