-- 
Japan’s Deepening Economic Slide May Heighten Pressure for Faster Stimulus

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-05-20T06:34:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/japan-s-deepening-slump-heightens-pressure-for-faster-stimulus.html
Japanese consumers are making deeper
cutbacks after the March 11 earthquake than anticipated,
heightening the urgency for policy makers to unveil measures to
end the nation’s third recession in a decade.  Household spending had the largest back-to-back quarterly
drop since the global financial crisis, the Cabinet Office said
yesterday. The figures contrast with comments by Japan’s central
bank, which refrained from adding more stimulus today, that the
economy’s main challenge is one of supply chain disruptions
caused by the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear crisis.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan , whose public approval rating is
less than 30 percent, has held off on outlining the scale of
further reconstruction spending as officials gauge the impact of
an initial 4 trillion yen ($49 billion) package. BOJ Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa has taken a similar stance since the central
bank expanded its asset-purchase fund on March 14.  “Speed is key here, and the government needs to act,”
said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , a senior economist at Itochu Corp. in
Tokyo. “A delay in the second budget is not only going to
postpone the economy’s return to growth, but it’s also going to
reduce Japan’s capacity to grow in the long run. Companies
aren’t going to invest in a country that takes forever to
rebuild itself.”  GDP shrank an annualized 3.7 percent in the three months
ended March, almost double the pace that economists projected
and the biggest contraction since the financial crisis.  Consumer
spending  slumped 0.6 percent, worse than economist projections
for a 0.4 percent drop.  Household Cut Back  Households cut back on eating out and entertainment after
the disaster disrupted power and transportation and left more
than 24,000 dead or missing. Companies also slashed spending on
plant and equipment and drew down on inventories.  “I see this as only a temporary phenomenon,” Economic and
Fiscal Policy Minister  Kaoru Yosano  told reporters in Tokyo
yesterday. He said the situation was “fundamentally different”
from the financial crisis, when demand plunged globally.  The BOJ’s Shirakawa has repeatedly said since the quake
that the economy will recover as power shortages and supply
constraints recede later in the year.  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. reported a 1.25 trillion yen loss
today, exceeding the largest corporate loss so far, Nippon
Telegraph & Telephone Corp.’s 812 billion yen deficit in the
year ended March 2002, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Resisting Calls  Japanese banks are resisting government calls for lenders
to support Tokyo Electric by forgiving loans or easing interest
charges. Masayuki Oku, chairman of the Japanese Bankers
Association, said yesterday banks aren’t considering writing off
or cutting interest payments on existing loans.  Japan’s GDP is now near a 20-year low in nominal terms, a
reminder of the entrenched deflation that was weighing on growth
even before the temblor disrupted production and spending.  The Bank of  Japan ’s policy board unanimously voted today to
maintain a 30-trillion yen credit program and a 10 trillion yen
asset-purchasing fund that represents the bank’s main policy
tools, and kept the benchmark overnight rate at zero to 0.1
percent. Deputy Governor Kiyohiko Nishimura dropped the proposal
he made last month of expanding the fund to kickstart growth.  The yen was little changed after the central bank’s
decision, trading at 81.72 against the dollar at 3:30 p.m. in
Tokyo. All 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expected no
change in monetary policy today.  “This decline in GDP is huge, and the BOJ may have to take
additional steps to ease policy,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior
economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. That
monetary stimulus may come this summer to match the timing of
when the government unveils its second extra budget, he said.  May Expand  Shirakawa has said the BOJ may expand its asset-purchase
program if needed.  Predictions by Yosano and Shirakawa that underlying demand
will remain intact may prove too optimistic. While an increase
in machinery orders point to an improvement in business spending
in coming months, wages slipped in March for the first time in
more than a year, payrolls slumped the most in two years and
household sentiment slumped by a record in April.  Data for April suggests the economy will continue shrinking
this quarter. Exports, traditionally Japan’s biggest driver of
growth, slid 12.7 percent in the first 20 days of April from a
year earlier as supply-chain disruptions held back manufacturers.  Renesas Electronics Corp. is among companies that are
restarting their damaged factories. Net loss at the world’s
biggest maker of microcontrollers used in cars, mobile phones
and cameras widened to 115 billion yen in the year ended March,
the company said this week.  Relief Package  So far, Kan has pushed through a relief package to build
temporary homes and clean up debris in the northeast region,
where the quake did the most damage. Planning a second budget
will be harder as policy makers must agree how they will finance
the extra spending with a debt burden already twice the size of
the economy. Calls for a bigger additional relief package will
intensify as signs of a deteriorating economy abound, according
to  Yasunori Sone , a political science professor at Tokyo-based
 Keio University .  Former Bank of Japan deputy governor Toshiro Muto said
damage from the quake may linger. Power shortages sparked by a
nuclear accident in Fukushima may force companies to relocate
overseas, sapping spending and jobs at home.  “My biggest concern is the possibility of companies moving
factories abroad,” Muto, now head of the Daiwa Institute of
Research, said yesterday. “Some companies may have already
started considering that. When that turns to reality, we may see
a hollowing out of the Japanese economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  