-- 
Japan Economy Shrinks More-Than-Forecast 3.7% After Record Quake, Tsunami

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-05-19T06:59:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/japan-s-economy-shrinks-more-than-forecast.html
Japan’s economy shrank more than
estimated in the first quarter after the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami disrupted production and prompted consumers to cut back
spending, sending the nation to its third recession in a decade.  Gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7 percent
in the three months through March, following a revised 3 percent
drop in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said today in
 Tokyo . The median forecast of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a 1.9 percent drop.  The March disaster hit an economy already weighed down by
years of deflation and subdued  consumer spending , and slashed
profits at companies including Toyota Motor Corp. as factories
were shut. The economy, now the smallest size since 1991
unadjusted for price changes, may shrink further this quarter
before rebounding later in 2011 as reconstruction kicks in.  “The contraction in the second quarter will probably be
even bigger as consumer spending and exports slump,” said  Norio Miyagawa , senior economist at Mizuho Securities Research and
Consulting Co. in Tokyo. “The economy will likely return to
growth from the third quarter once the supply-chain disruption
eases and reconstruction work begins.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.4 percent today on the
worse-than-expected GDP data. The Nikkei has lost 8 percent
since the quake and tsunami, which left more than 24,000 dead or
missing. The yen traded at 81.70 against the dollar at 3:48 p.m.
in Tokyo, compared with 81.69 before the report was published.  ‘Temporary Phenomenon’  The economic contraction may only be a “temporary
phenomenon,” and two straight quarters of shrinkage “doesn’t
necessarily mean the economy’s trajectory has changed,”  Kaoru Yosano , the economy minister, told reporters today.  Economists typically define a recession as two consecutive
quarters of contraction. The Japanese government instead
determines recessions by having a committee of academics decide
when recoveries and retreats begin and end.  The revised fourth quarter GDP figure showing a 3 percent
annualized contraction was more than double the previous
estimate, after the government revised data going back to 1980,
according to the Cabinet Office.  Capital investment  dropped 0.9 percent in the first quarter,
the first decline in six quarters, today’s data showed.  ‘Shocking’ Data  “It’s hard to think that companies will become aggressive
about increasing business spending when uncertainties remain
strong,” said  Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Consumer spending fell 0.6 percent in the January-March
period from the previous three months, the second straight
quarter of declines, today’s report showed. In a sign that
customers are returning to shops, nationwide department store
sales fell 1.5 percent in April, easing from March’s 14.7
percent decline, a report today showed.  From the previous quarter, the economy shrank 0.9 percent
in the first three months of 2011, today’s report showed. In
nominal terms, the economy contracted an annualized 5.2 percent
in the first quarter, the most since the first quarter of 2009,
today’s report showed.  Net exports, or shipments less imports, subtracted 0.2
percentage point from GDP.  The GDP figures today were “shocking,” Toshiro Muto, a
former deputy governor of the Bank of  Japan , said today in Tokyo.
While the economy may resume growth in the fourth quarter, for
the fiscal year ending March 2012 as a whole it may shrink by
0.4 percent to 0.5 percent, said Muto, now the head of Daiwa
Institute of Research.  Shrinking Economy  The economy will probably contract at a 3.3 percent annual
pace this quarter, and then resume growth the next two quarters,
according to the average forecast of 43 economists in a survey
by the government-affiliated  Economic Planning Association 
released on May 16.  Japan’s GDP shrank for four straight quarters during the
global financial crisis, and contracted for three straight
quarters in 2001. Consumer prices excluding fresh food costs
have dropped every month since March 2009, underscoring the
deflationary pressure that has sapped consumer demand.  The  GDP deflator , a gauge of price trends, fell 1.9 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed.  Highlighting the disaster’s effect on companies, Toyota
Motor, the world’s largest carmaker, said last week that profit
slumped 77 percent to the lowest in 1 1/2 years for the three
months ended March 31. The earthquake forced it to halt
production and depressed its domestic sales.  Kan Stimulus  Nippon Steel Corp., Japan’s biggest steelmaker, said in
April it posted a worse-than-expected loss in the fiscal fourth-
quarter after the temblor damaged plants. The company’s output
is expected to drop by 7 percent to 8 percent this quarter as
damaged carmaker facilities damp orders.  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  plans to come up with second extra
budget for reconstruction after parliament approved a 4 trillion
yen ($49 billion) budget this month. He will need the
cooperation of opposition party politicians, who control the
Upper House of parliament, to get the second budget enacted. The
government in March estimated that damage from the disaster will
swell to as high as 25 trillion yen.  Japan’s central bank injected record amounts of cash into
the money market after the quake, and doubled to 10 trillion yen
a fund to buy assets such as corporate bonds and real estate
investment trusts. The  Bank of Japan ’s policy board last month
rejected a proposal by a deputy governor to expand that fund.  ‘V-Shaped Recovery’  Some data suggest that demand may recover earlier than
expected after the quake.  Machinery orders, an indicator of future  capital spending ,
unexpectedly increased in March, while companies said they plan
to increase factory output in April and May.  Honda Motor Co., Japan’s third-largest automaker, said this
week it will return to normal production before the end of the
year as its production has recovered faster than it expected.
Toyota Motor and Nissan Motor Co. have also said the recovery in
production is quicker than expected.  “We look for a classic V-shaped recovery in the July-to-
September period and after,” said  Kyohei Morita , chief
economist at  Barclays Capital  in Tokyo. “A self-sustaining
recovery in production, an increase in government consumption
and reconstruction demand centered around public works will
likely support the economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  