-- 
Jobless Claims in U.S. Fall More Than Forecast to 409,000, Reversing Surge

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:16:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/jobless-claims-in-u-s-fall-more-than-forecast-to-409-000-reversing-surge.html
Fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, making it more
likely that the surge in April was caused by temporary events
rather than a deterioration in the labor market.  Jobless claims declined by 29,000 to 409,000 in the week
ended May 14, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
News survey called for a drop to 420,000. The number of
applications were the lowest in a month.  Declining firings and gains in hiring are helping sustain
consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of the
economy, even as food and fuel costs increase. While payrolls
have climbed for seven consecutive months, a jobless rate close
to 9 percent underscores the need for a pickup in employment
that will spur growth.  “We have essentially come full-circle and are unwinding
the run up in April,” said Michael Englund, chief economist at
Action Economics LLC in Boulder,  Colorado . “The labor market is
slowly improving. It allows slow, but positive growth in
 consumer spending .”  Other reports today showed that an index of U.S. leading
economic indicators unexpectedly fell in April after nine months
of gains,  consumer confidence  declined last week to the lowest
level in nine months, and manufacturing slowed in the
Philadelphia area.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index erased gains and was little
changed at 1,340.56 at 10:11 a.m. in New York. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year Treasury note, which moves inversely to
prices, rose to 3.20 percent from 3.18 late yesterday.  No Special Factors  There were no special factors affecting last week’s data, a
Labor Department spokesman said as the figures were released to
the press.  The median forecast was based on a survey of 49 economists.
Estimates ranged from 398,000 to 435,000. The Labor Department
revised the prior week’s figure up to 438,000 from the 434,000
initially reported.  Claims in April surged to the highest level in eight months
due to events that seasonal variations failed to take into
account, such as a late school holiday in  New York , a new
emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto shutdowns caused
by the disaster in  Japan , the Labor Department has said.
Flooding in the South hasn’t been a significant influence so far
on the number of applications, the department official said
today.  Claims in New York dropped by about 23,000 in the week
ended May 7, the report showed, evidence of the unwinding of the
late holiday. Applications in  Alabama  increased by almost 6,000
during the same period as a result of the storms and tornadoes
that ravaged the state the prior week.  May Jobs Report  Today’s report covers the week the Labor Department surveys
businesses to calculate the monthly payroll figures. The four-
week moving average, a less volatile measure than the weekly
figures, rose to 439,000 last week from 437,750.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
dropped by 81,000 in the week ended May 7 to 3.71 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments increased by about
4,400 to 4.11 million in the week ended April 30.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 3 percent.  Twenty-nine states and territories reported a decline in
claims, while 24 reported an increase. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Claims, Payrolls  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  High fuel costs are among reasons consumers are limiting
purchases.  Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest U.S. discount
retailer, reported first-quarter earnings that exceeded analyst
estimates as its credit-card business helped to counter softer-
than-anticipated sales.  “Unemployment remains stubbornly high, hampering overall
consumer sentiment and spending,” Gregg Steinhafel, chairman
and chief executive officer of Minneapolis-based Target, said on
a conference call yesterday. “While the  U.S. economy  is showing
some signs of improvement, we expect the recovery will continue
to be slow and uneven.”  Payrolls expanded last month by the most since May 2010,
even as the jobless rate climbed to 9 percent, Labor Department
data showed. Job market conditions had “continued to improve,
albeit gradually,” Fed officials said in minutes of their April
26-27 meeting released yesterday.  “We still have a long way to go before labor markets can
be described as healthy,” Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said in a May 11 speech in Cincinnati.
“I expect it could take about five years for the unemployment
rate to reach its longer-run sustainable rate of 5.5 to 6
percent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  