-- 
Kazakh Chemicals Producer May Borrow $3 Billion Next Year

-- B y   N a r i m a n   G i z i t d i n o v
-- 
2011-05-20T12:23:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/kazakh-state-chemicals-producer-to-borrow-3-billion-next-year.html
United Chemical Co., a unit of
 Kazakhstan ’s sovereign wealth fund, may borrow about $3 billion
from banks next year as the nation seeks to boost exports of
refined oil and gas products.  The chemicals producer may tap banks including  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to help attract project-financing loans, Chief
Executive Officer Dauren Yerdebai said in an interview yesterday
in Astana, the Kazakh capital.  The company plans to spend $20 billion to build chemical
plants in the next 15 years, he said. Revenue is expected to
reach $6.7 billion a year, Yerdebai said.  Kazakhstan set up United Chemical in 2008 as part of a plan
to boost production of value-added goods and lessen the
economy’s reliance on exports of raw materials. An affiliate is
overseeing the construction of a $6.3 billion gas chemicals
complex to produce polypropylene and polyethylene, used to make
plastics, according to the company’s  website .  United Chemical is also in talks with  Lanxess AG (LXS) , the
German chemical maker, on an $800 million project to produce
butadiene, the petrochemical used to make synthetic rubber,
Yerdebai said.  The Central Asian nation holds about 3 percent of the
world’s crude oil reserves, according to BP Plc. Exxon Mobil
Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Eni SpA, OAO Lukoil and China
National Petroleum Corp. have contributed to $120 billion in
foreign investments in the country, which is also the world’s
largest uranium producer.  Kazakhstan’s National Wellbeing Fund Samruk-Kazyna, which
controls United Chemical, was used to bail out banks and
companies during the credit crisis, leaving it in control of
assets accounting for half of the country’s economic output.
Among its holdings are energy company KazMunaiGaz National Co.
and uranium miner Kazatomprom.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nariman Gizitdinov in Almaty at 
 ngizitdinov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  