-- 
Kenya’s Economy Llikely to Grow 6.1 Percent in 2011, Finance Minister Says

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-19T10:20:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/kenya-s-economy-llikely-to-grow-6-1-percent-in-2011-finance-minister-says.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  forecast economic growth would accelerate to 6.1
percent this year, faster than an estimate given by the Planning
Ministry two days earlier.  “Without a doubt we’re going through some major hits,”
Uhuru told reporters today in  Kenya ’s capital, Nairobi, when
asked to explain the divergence with the Planning Ministry’s
forecast of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent. “That hasn’t dampened
growth projections that we have.”  The  Central Bank of Kenya  unexpectedly raised its benchmark
interest rate on March 22, the first increase since June 2008,
pushing it up a quarter-point to 6 percent, stressing the need
to curb inflation rather than focus primarily on economic
growth. That followed eight reductions to the lending rate
between December 2008 and January 2011 in response to post-
election violence, the global financial crisis and drought.  The economy grew 5.6 percent last year, the National Bureau
of Statistics calculates, up from 2.6 in 2009 and 1.7 percent in
2008, when clashes broke out following the disputed December
2007 presidential election, killing 1,500 people.  The monetary policy committee will next meet in the western
town of Eldoret between May 30 and May 31, the bank’s head of
communications, Samson Burgei, said today. The MPC typically
announces its rate decision the final day of its meeting.  Growth Factors  Planning Minister Wycliffe Oparanya pinned his forecast for
slower growth on a combination of higher  oil prices , an unstable
 exchange rate , inadequate rainfall and rising global food
prices.  Global crude prices are declining and rainfall has recently
begun to pick up, which will probably ease domestic price
pressures on staple foods, Kenyatta said today.  Kenyatta in budget documents published in March said the
economy would expand 5.7 percent this year.  Inflation in East Africa’s largest economy accelerated for
the sixth consecutive month in April, reaching 12.05 percent,
the fastest pace in two years, driven by higher food and fuel
prices.  The government lowered tariffs on kerosene and diesel
imports last month to counter rising international oil prices,
and introduced plans to abolish duties on corn and wheat shipped
into the country by private companies.  The decline in revenue stemming from these measures may
force the government to increase borrowing, Kenyatta said,
declining to provide more details.  The functions of  Kenya’s Planning, National Development and
Vision 2030  Ministry include coordinating economic policies,
helping to prepare budget documents, and overseeing statistical
data, while the  Finance Ministry  takes the lead on overall
fiscal and economic management, according to their websites.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 