-- 
Kesa Electricals May Seek Specialist Restructuring Firm for Comet Chain

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-19T23:01:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/kesa-electricals-may-seek-specialist-restructuring-firm-for-comet-chain.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) ,  Europe ’s third-
largest electronics retailer, may need a specialist
restructuring firm to buy its U.K. Comet chain or to discard
more of the unprofitable unit’s stores to placate activist
investor Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, analysts say.  The London-based company should seek to make the 248-outlet
chain “more saleable,” said  Kate Calvert , a retail analyst at
Seymour Pierce in  London . Kesa may sell Comet and developing-
market businesses in Spain, Turkey and  Italy , two people
familiar with the matter said this week.  “There are plenty of private-equity restructuring-style
firms who may look at this,” said Calvert, who has a “hold”
recommendation on Kesa stock. “It’s unlikely that industry
players would be interested.”  Knight Vinke, which has built up a stake of 18 percent in
Kesa since last June, succeeded this month in getting Carrefour
SA of  France  to postpone a plan to list 25 percent of its
property unit. Comet Managing Director Hugh Harvey stepped down
earlier this month before the chain posted a 15 percent decline
in same-store sales in the past three months.  The Kesa chain is struggling to arrest the decline in
revenue as U.K. consumers defer spending on major purchases.
Rival  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS)  is shifting its focus to adding services
such as customer support and computer repairs even for products
it doesn’t sell to stem the drop in spending on new goods. The
shift could add tens of millions of pounds in profit, Chief
Executive Officer John Browett said this week.  A spokesman for Kesa declined to comment on the company’s
plans for Comet.  Closure Plans  An “accelerated restructuring” in which Kesa closed the
worst-performing Comet stores and kept the chain would be “the
most benign solution,” said  Simon Irwin , an analyst at Liberum
Research in London. Retaining the brand and some stores would
allow the company to tap into any upturn in consumer sentiment.  “Shrinking the portfolio faster is a sensible strategic
option because they still have a significant market share,”
said Calvert of  Seymour Pierce .  Kesa has already committed to closing five to 10 Comet
stores this year.  Other options include placing the whole U.K. unit under a
so-called company voluntary arrangement, or CVA, where creditors
such as landlords are offered compensation in return for ending
leases, though this isn’t being considered, one person said,
declining to be identified because the talks are private.  Move to France?  Kesa’s biggest unit is Darty in France, where sales rose
7.6 percent in the three months ended April 16, compensating for
declines in the U.K. and developing markets.  Kesa may consider moving its stock listing from London to
Paris, the Sunday Times reported this week. Doing so would mean
funds that track the  FTSE 250 Index (MCX)  having to withdraw from
their investment in Kesa.  “It would kill the share price, but I can see long-term it
would create value for the new shareholders,” Calvert said.  Kesa Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin has
said consistently that he will stick to his plan of refitting
Comet stores, extending its Web offering and cutting costs by
closing service centers and warehouses.  “Should this corporate shake-up happen, it would have to
be seen as a significant positive” for both Kesa and Dixons,
said Andy Wade, an analyst at Numis Securities in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  