-- 
Kremlin Private-Equity Fund Said to Seek 30 Managers to Handle $10 Billion

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-05-19T14:06:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/kremlin-private-equity-fund-said-to-consider-hiring-30-bankers.html
The Russian private equity unit being
set up by President  Dmitry Medvedev  is seeking to hire 25 to 30
investment managers, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the plan.  The fund, which will get at least $10 billion of Russian
government money over the next five years and be managed by VEB,
or Vnesheconombank, the state development bank, will begin
hiring in June, the person said, declining to be identified
before the information is made public.  Medvedev announced the creation of the fund in January, as
part of his drive to wean the economy off its dependence on
natural-resource extraction. The venture may attract another $40
billion of co-investment from foreign buyout firms and sovereign
wealth funds over the next five years, the head of the fund,
Kirill Dmitriev, said by phone from Moscow today.  A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  banker and president of
Moscow-based Icon Private Equity, Dmitriev was appointed
yesterday by the government. “Foreign funds with several
trillion dollars under management are hovering and considering
making investment in Russian private equity,” Dmitriev said.  Putin, Goldman Sachs  Co-investors, who will include international buyout funds,
sovereign wealth funds and pensions plans, will be announced at
the St. Petersburg economic forum in June, Dmitriev said. Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin , who is seeking investors to join the
fund, yesterday introduced Dmitriev to representatives from
Goldman Sachs,  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority and other funds from the U.S.,  Europe ,  Asia  and the
Middle East, Dmitry Peskov, the premier’s spokesman, said.  Dmitriev said the fund will focus on infrastructure,
telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and aerospace.  Russia ’s government is finding it difficult to lure
international private-equity firms, even as investors
increasingly look to emerging markets. Private-equity managers
in Russia raised $1.4 billion over the last three years, the
least among the BRIC countries, though they are seeking $4
billion this year and next, according to the Washington-based
Emerging Markets Private Equity Association. The figure for
China in the same period was $28.6 billion, followed by $15
billion for  India  and $5 billion for  Brazil .  Among the top global leveraged buyout firms, only Fort
Worth, Texas-based TPG Capital is active in the country. TPG
partnered with VTB Capital, the investment arm of Russia’s
second-largest bank, to buy 35.4 percent of superstore chain
Lenta in 2009. The investors are embroiled in a legal dispute
with Svoboda, Lenta’s largest shareholder, over the control of
the retailer.  China , India  “Russia has not proven to be a place where Western
private-equity investors can have the returns and realize the
profits commensurate with the risks they’ve had to take,”
Carlyle co-founder David Rubenstein said in Berlin in March.  Bader Al-Saad, managing director of  Kuwait ’s sovereign
wealth fund, the  Kuwait Investment Authority , or KIA, said it
would work with the private equity unit to increase the $600
million it has invested in Russia to date.  “This is a unique concept,” Al-Saad said yesterday in
 comments  to state-controlled channel Russia Today. The presence
of the government would be a “comfort,” he said.  Dmitriev said one of the main goals of the Kremlin fund is
to reduce the “unfair perception” of Russia being a risky
place for investors. “Experienced investors understand that the
Russian economy is growing very rapidly and can provide very
higher returns.”  ‘Big Checks’  The fund will buy minority stakes in companies and offer
the same share to investors from “a club,” Dmitriev said.
Investors will not be obliged to take part and can do so on a
case-by-case basis.  “There are major opportunities to modernize infrastructure
and some very big checks will be written,” Dmitreiv said.
“Toll roads, ports, bridges need to be built and these might be
more interesting for sovereign funds and pension funds who have
a longer investment horizon.” Buyout funds might be more
interested in telecoms, energy, health care and financial
services where the risk and reward may be higher, he said.  Dmitriev, a graduate of Stanford and Harvard universities,
worked for McKinsey and Goldman before returning to Russia to
work with Delta Private Equity and later Icon, which has about
$1 billion under management.  With assistance from Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow and Anne-
Sylvaine Chassany in  London  Editors:  Brad Cook , Alex
Nicholson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  