-- 
New Zealand Budget May Limit RBNZ Rate Rises Through Earthquake Rebuilding

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-19T12:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/n-z-budget-set-to-return-to-surplus-in-2014-15.html
New Zealand ’s planned spending cuts
to achieve a  budget surplus  in four years may add to the case
for interest rates to stay low through rebuilding from the
country’s deadliest earthquake in eight decades.  Prime Minister John Key announced more than NZ$5 billion
($4.1 billion) in spending cuts and the end of deficits by
fiscal 2015 in a budget that predicted inflation will moderate
this year and wages will fall in the year ending March 31. He
told parliament that lower borrowing costs were a “dividend”
of the strategy.  Key has overseen a surge in borrowing as the nation faces
NZ$15 billion of costs to rebuild the South Island city of
Christchurch after an earthquake closed the central business 
district and killed more than 180 people. The smallest share of
government spending in the economy since 2008 may take pressure
off central bank Governor Alan Bollard to raise  interest rates .  “The planned rapid tightening of the fiscal position in
the out years may help to do some of the  Reserve Bank ’s work for
it next year,” Paul Bloxham, chief economist for Australia and
New Zealand at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in Sydney, said in a research
note.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond dropped
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.11 percent,
the lowest since September. New Zealand’s dollar bought 79.15
U.S. cents at 6 p.m. in Wellington yesterday from 78.97 cents
immediately before the budget.  Rate Outlook  Twelve of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
Bollard won’t raise borrowing costs from a record-low 2.5
percent until next year, curbing demand for the  New Zealand
dollar . The so-called kiwi is the second-worst performing Group
of 10 currency this year against the  U.S. dollar , gaining about
1.5 percent.  “A National government will deliver interest rates that
are lower,” Key, who is seeking reelection in November, said in
parliament yesterday.  The operating surplus will be NZ$1.3 billion in the year
through June 2015 from a record NZ$16.7 billion deficit in the
current period ending June 30, Finance Minister Bill English
said in the budget released yesterday in Wellington. The
government said it will save NZ$5.2 billion over four years to
spend on rebuilding from earthquakes, and health and education.  The government is reducing spending on family payments and
subsidies for a worker savings plan to redirect money into a
NZ$5.5 billion fund to help rebuild Christchurch.  ‘Quite Ambitious’  Standard & Poor’s , which has New Zealand’s AA+ sovereign
rating on negative outlook, signaled the nation’s credit rating
is secure as long as budget targets are met.  The plan is “quite ambitious” and “looks achievable,”
Kyran Curry, a sovereign credit analyst at S&P, said in an
interview from  Kuala Lumpur . “The government has made some
difficult decisions.”  Still, the budget is consistent with the negative outlook
and S&P will continue to review the nation’s external position,
which is the primary driver of the rating, he said.  Moody’s Investors Service said the budget “shows future
deficit and debt levels that remain supportive of the
government’s Aaa bond rating and stable outlook.”  Key’s  National Party  will attempt to win a second term at
the Nov. 26 election. The Nationals had 54 percent support in a
Colmar Brunton poll of 1,000 eligible voters for One News in
early April. The main opposition  Labour Party ’s backing was 34
percent.  New Zealand’s government net debt is expected to rise to
20.8 percent of gross domestic product this year from 14.1
percent in 2010 as it borrows to meet immediate costs from the
February quake. Debt is likely to rise to 29.6 percent of GDP at
its peak in 2015 and decline to less than 20 percent by the
early 2020s, according to the budget.  Debt-to-GDP  Without cuts announced in the budget, debt could have
accelerated to a peak of 35 percent of GDP, which “is simply
too high,” English told reporters yesterday.  By extracting operating savings and committing to sales of
five state-owned assets, the government expects to borrow NZ$10
billion less than previously forecast over the next five years,
he said. The government today confirmed it will sell no more
than 49 percent of four energy companies and reduce its stake in
Air New Zealand Ltd. The sales will begin in 2012.  The NZ$16.7 billion deficit in the current year is wider
than the NZ$11.1 billion forecast in December amid a drop in
revenue as economic growth slowed, one-time costs for the
earthquake and the government’s guarantee of depositors with
failed finance companies.  The deficit is forecast to narrow to NZ$9.7 billion in
2011-12 and NZ$4.1 billion a year later.  Slower Spending  Government spending ’s share of the economy will decline in
fiscal 2015 to 31.3 percent, from 36.4 percent this year and the
lowest level since 2008.  New Zealand’s annual average economic growth is forecast to
be 1.8 percent in the year ending March 31, the Treasury
Department said today. Spending from the finals of the Rugby
 World Cup  which the nation hosts in September and October is
expected to buoy demand. Growth will accelerate to 4 percent in
2012-13 amid rebuilding of Christchurch, the nation’s second-
biggest city.  Annual inflation will slow to 3.1 percent by the end of
2011 from 4.5 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, and real
wages will fall 0.5 percent, the Treasury Department forecast.
It will slow to 2.5 percent by the end of 2012, within the 1
percent-to-3 percent band Bollard is required to target.  “There are signs the economy is moving onto a more
sustainable footing,” English said. “Strong growth in emerging
markets has given us a period of high prices for exports. Our
strong links to  Australia  and  China  are a cause for optimism.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  