-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise for Fifth Day as Energy, Gold Shares Gain

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-05-20T21:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/nal-energy-transglobe-apartment-reit-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a fifth day,
capping its biggest weekly gain in three months, as gold rallied
after  Fitch Ratings  cut  Greece ’s credit rating and natural gas
rebounded from a five-week low.  Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s largest natural gas producer, gained
2.3 percent as the fuel advanced on forecasts for warmer weather
in the U.S.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold
producer by market value, increased 1.4 percent as the metal
climbed to a one-week high. Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.,
the world’s biggest fertilizer producer by market value, fell
2.6 percent as wheat dropped because of forecasts for rain in
dry areas of  Europe .  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index climbed 27.18
points, or 0.2 percent, to 13,652.27. For the week, the S&P/TSX
rose 2.1 percent.  “The global economic data is softer but still positive,”
said Philip Petursson, managing director of the Portfolio
Advisory Group at Manulife Asset Management, a  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  unit that oversees $217 billion. “Valuations
and earnings growth in the U.S.” are also favorable.  Nine of 10 S&P/TSX industry groups gained this week as the
lowest prices relative to earnings in six months attracted
investors back into Canadian stocks. The S&P/TSX’s 3.5 percent
quarterly decline through yesterday was the third-most among
developed-market stock benchmarks behind the Austrian Traded
Index and the Athens Stock Exchange General Index.  S&P/TSX financial, consumer-staples and technology stocks
advanced the most this week in three months and an index of
pipeline companies surged the most in 19 months. Utility and
telecommunications stocks both climbed for a fifth week.  The S&P/TSX Energy Index gained as natural gas jumped 3.3
percent and oil rose 1.2 percent. Encana advanced 2.3 percent to
C$32.60.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, increased 0.7 percent to
C$40.88.  Crew Energy Inc. (CR) , a western Canadian oil and gas producer,
rallied 6.9 percent to C$15.72 after Kim Page, an analyst at
Wellington West Capital Markets Inc., raised her rating on the
shares to “strong buy” from “buy.”  Trilogy Energy Corp. (TET) , which also produces oil and gas in
Canada, surged 13 percent to a five-year high of C$25.81 after
its first-quarter  cash flow  topped the average analyst estimate
by 10 percent. At least five analysts raised their price
forecasts for Trilogy shares.  Gold Rises  Gold gained 1.1 percent, the most in three weeks, after
Fitch cut Greece’s credit rating to B+ from BB+, saying a
restructuring of the country’s debt would be considered a
default. The S&P/TSX Gold Index climbed for a sixth day, the
longest streak since August.  Goldcorp rallied 1.4 percent to C$47.50.  Silver Wheaton
Corp. (SLW) , Canada’s fourth-biggest precious-metals company by market
value, advanced 1.9 percent to C$34.17 as silver rallied. Alacer
Gold Corp., which mines in  Turkey , climbed 5.7 percent to
C$8.76.  Fertilizer producers retreated as wheat dropped for a
second day. Potash Corp. decreased 2.6 percent to C$50.58.
 Agrium Inc. (AGU) , Canada’s second-biggest fertilizer producer, fell
0.8 percent to C$77.85.  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a forest-products company that operates
in  China , lost 4.3 percent to C$20.33. China’s power shortage
may cut economic growth by 0.4 percentage points this year, Lu
Yanjin, an analyst at Fuzhou, China-based Industrial Securities
Co., wrote in a report today.  New Millennium Capital Corp. (NML) , which is developing an iron
ore project in  Quebec , soared 15 percent to C$2.95 after
ArcelorMittal said it will spend C$2.1 billion ($2.2 million) to
raise output at its nearby Mont-Wright mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  