-- 
Natchez Record Flood Means Boon and Bust for Old Gambling Town

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-05-19T13:13:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/natchez-record-flooding-means-boon-bust-for-old-mississippi-gambling-town.html
Sherry Harmon looked out the window
and shook her head at a temporary levee of plastic and sand, all
that is keeping the  Mississippi River  from taking a seat by the
bar at Natchez’s Magnolia Grill.  “I think that wall had kept us open,” said Harmon, 47,
who lives across the river from the  Mississippi  town in Vidalia,
Louisiana. The staff had just been told to close the popular
eatery, which behind its barrier is the last dry spot on Silver
Street before the river starts.  The river has already swallowed Water Street in  Natchez ’s
historic Under-the-Hill district, closing the Isle of Capri
casino and turning the rest of the neighborhood into a sand
castle. Just outside the city, it has left the U.S. Coast Guard
office an island surrounded by sandbags, forcing staff to take a
boat to get to and from their cars.  The river broke a 73-year-old record of 58 feet in Natchez
last week and hasn’t stopped rising. The level was 61.84 feet
early today and is forecast to reach at least 62.5 feet on May
21, according to the  National Weather Service .  The floods of 2011 have forced more than 5,000 people from
their homes in five states, inundated more than 2 million acres
of farmland and have forced the  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  to
open three of its four major spillways on the Mississippi system
for the first time in history.  Dredging Needed  The water has moved so much silt that 21 harbors along the
river will have to be dredged, as well as the channel from Baton
Rouge to  New Orleans , said Mike Petersen, a Corps of Engineers
spokesman. On top of that, the entire flood protection system
will have to be “reset,” and the cost of all of that can’t be
calculated yet, he said.  From Natchez’s overlook about 200 feet above the river,
three friends stood in the growing heat of day yesterday to
contemplate the Mississippi.  “I haven’t seen this much water since I was in the Navy,”
said Larry Woods, 53. One of his friends, Joan Perry, 62, a
housekeeper at the Isle of Capri, has been out of work since the
river closed the casino last week. Perry said she isn’t sure
when she will get back to work.  Mississippi, the U.S.’s third-largest gaming-employment
market, may lose $13 million a month in taxes and thousands of
jobs are in jeopardy because 17 of the state’s 19 riverfront
casinos have had to close.  Levee Protection  While a large part of Natchez is protected by a bluff,
across the river in Vidalia the protection that topography can’t
provide is supplied by levees. Still, at least $100 million
worth of businesses employing 300 people are on the wrong side
of a large earthen levee that protects the town, said Heather
Malone, executive director of the Concordia Parish Economic &
Industrial Development District.  A Comfort Suites hotel, Vidalia’s 37,000-square-foot
convention center, an out-patient surgery center and  Promise
Hospital of Miss Lou , an acute health care facility, are all
barricaded by temporary levees as the Mississippi threatens to
surround them.  Vidalia brought in 18,000 tons of sand, enlisted 1,500
convict laborers and started preparing for this flood three
weeks ago, said Sheri Rabb, Vidalia’s spokeswoman. The flood
threat is greater along the river’s  Louisiana  bank given its
flatter contour.  “We have been extremely nervous,” said Lillian Pugh, 60,
of Monterey, Louisiana. “You can’t rest.”  Threat to Cattle  Pugh said her family has several hundred head of cattle,
which they haven’t sold and haven’t been able to evacuate. She
is afraid the flood will drown them.  The Mississippi’s flow is so powerful now the corps is
diverting more water through the  Morganza spillway  to keep Baton
Rouge and New Orleans from flooding than is flowing in the
Potomac by Harper’s Ferry,  West Virginia , on its way to
 Washington , according to weather service figures.  The corps has 17 of 125 gates open at Morganza and is
sending 108,000 cubic feet of water per second away from the
Mississippi and toward the Atchafalaya basin and Cajun country.
The Potomac at Harper’s Ferry, which is forecast to reach flood
stage today itself, is sending about 100,000 cubic feet per
second downstream, according to the weather service.  To maintain the integrity of  Baton Rouge ’s levees, the
corps is keeping the flow past Louisiana’s capital at 1.5
million cubic feet per second, or 15 times the Potomac’s flow.  Lawn Fishing  In Natchez, James Keyes, 29, sits on an old plastic cooler
and casts his fishing lines into what should be a lawn next to
the buildings of the  Natchez-Adams County Port .  A red surgery scar runs up his spine and disappears under
his t-shirt. Keyes said he hasn’t worked since he fell through a
ceiling and broke his back in two places last year.  “Everything is running from the river, worms, deer,
everything,” said Keyes, while not far away a six-foot
alligator floats along with the current. “You go to the end of
that road and you’ll see worms, handfuls of them. That’s what
the fish are biting on right now.”  Keyes’ friend Tommy Heathcoat, 26, pulls a bullhead catfish
out of the water at the end of a yellow nylon rope.  “I caught him this morning,” Keyes said. “Perfect eating
size, you can get one filet on each side.”  At the  Under-the-Hill Saloon  up Silver Street from the
Magnolia Grill, the bartender was looking for a silver lining in
the murky brown clouds of river water.  “I hate to say it, but it’s been good for business,” said
Beth Hite, 53. “People want to see it, so they are walking down
and then stop in and have a beer. I think everything is going to
be alright.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Baton Rouge at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 