-- 
National Grid Full-Year Profit Rises as U.S. Margins Improve

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:47:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/national-grid-profit-rises-as-u-s-margins-improve-correct-.html
National Grid Plc (NG/) , the operator of
Britain’s power-distribution network, said full-year profit rose
as margins improved at the utility’s U.S. business.  Earnings from continuing operations climbed 23 percent to
1.75 billion pounds ($2.8 billion), London-based National Grid
said in a statement today. The company will pay a dividend per
share of 36.37 pence, compared with 33.68 pence a year earlier.  Cold weather in the U.K. and warm weather in the U.S. drove
up demand for both gas and electricity in the first nine months
of the year. Regulated returns from the U.S. climbed to 8.2
percent, boosted by higher weather-related volumes, National
Grid said. The company will complete the sale of its New
Hampshire unit in the second half of fiscal year 2012.  “It’s been a year in which our costs have been very
tightly managed across our businesses,” Chief Executive Officer
Steve Holliday said on a conference call today. The company
invested 3.6 billion pounds of new capital during the period,
mostly in the U.K., and is targeting a total investment of 22
billion pounds through the end of March 2015, he added. “The
U.K. is the heart of the investment,” he said.  National Grid rose 8 pence, or 1.3 percent, to 622.5 pence
in  London . The stock has risen 13 percent this year, valuing the
company at 22 billion pounds.  One-Off Gain  “While the numbers may appear at first glance to be very
strong, in our view the reason for the solid performance was due
to a one-off over-recovery of revenue at the gas distribution
U.S. business and for electricity distribution and generation
U.S., which will not repeat in fiscal year 2012,” Unicredit
analyst Scott Phillips said today in a note to investors.  Timing “benefits” contributed about 5 pence to earnings
per share, National Grid said in the statement. The company
recovered 108 million pounds of revenue at its U.S. electricity
distribution and generation business. Its U.S. gas distribution
unit gained 97 million pounds-worth in owed and over-recovered
revenue.  “Operating profit of 3.6 billion pounds for the year
included a number of timing differences, including the
collection of revenues owed to our regulated businesses from
previous years plus an over-recovery of revenues in fiscal year
2011,” National Grid said. “These timing differences are, by
their nature, very unpredictable, but our current expectation is
that they will not recur in fiscal year 2012.”  Cost Savings  The company is on track to achieve cost savings announced
earlier this year, Finance Director Andrew Bonfield said on the
call. National Grid is targeting a 7 percent reduction in
management and administrative positions, which will account for
more than 70 percent of a $200 million cost-reduction plan. The
utility is also delaying smart grid pilots in  Massachusetts  and
 New York .  Regulators in New York and Massachusetts rejected the
London-based utility’s requests for higher transmission rates.
The lower returns drove National Grid to announce 1,200 job cuts
and plans to restructure its U.S. operations in January.  “There is the short term focus around business
performance,” Bonfield said, “but at the same time, this is a
very long term business and we need to make sure we have the
right mix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  