-- 
Obama Says Development Key to Strengthening Democracy Movements in Mideast

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 
2011-05-20T04:00:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-says-new-chapter-of-u-s-diplomacy-opening-amid-mideast-uprisings.html
PresidentBarack Obama said economic
development must follow political reforms in the Middle East and
North Africa, promising aid for  Egypt  and Tunisia while warning
leaders in other countries that repression ultimately will prove
to be a losing strategy.  “Just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack
of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions
depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity,”
Obama said in a speech at the State Department in Washington
intended to define the U.S. role in promoting freedom and
economic opportunity in the region.  Obama also criticized the governments in Libya, Syria and
 Iran  for turning to brute force to stay in power, and he called
on leaders in Bahrain and Yemen to heed calls for reform.  Almost two years after he called for a “new beginning”
with the Arab world, Obama sought to offer offered a fresh
blueprint for the U.S. role in the Middle East and North Africa
at a historic moment.  “America must use all our influence to encourage reform in
the region,” Obama said in yesterday’s speech. “Our message is
simple: If you take the risks that reform entails, you will have
the full support of the  United States .”  Shadi Hamid, director of research at the Brookings Doha
Center, called the speech “disappointing.”  “It was passable but nothing new or surprising. No
creative policy options,” Hamid said in a telephone interview.
“It was a rehash” of past speeches and statements by Obama and
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton .  Broad Audience  Shashank Joshi at the  Royal United Services Institute , a
policy research organization in  London , said Obama tried to
cover too much ground.  “It was almost an impossible balancing act designed to
placate an enormous array of people -- Americans who saw him as
indecisive in the face of the Arab Spring, Arabs in the region,
protesters in the Middle East,” Joshi said. “It took on too
much and will end up disappointing absolutely every one.”  Obama tied the broader transformation going on in the
region to the need for resolution of the conflict between Israel
and the Palestinians, which he said has “cast a shadow over the
region” for decades.  For the first time, he called for a settlement based on the
1967 borders “with mutually agreed swaps” of land. He also
said a future Palestinian state must be demilitarized. Other
“core issues” such as the status of  Jerusalem  and the fate of
Palestinian refugees must be negotiated, he said.  Pushing the Process  In an interview afterward with the  BBC , Obama said
negotiating the issues of territory and security may clear the
way for accords on the other fundamental disagreements.  “If we make progress on what two states would look like,
and a reality sets in among the parties, that this is how it is
going to end up, then it becomes easier for both sides to make
difficult concessions to resolve those two other issues,” Obama
said, according to an excerpt released by the BBC.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who is scheduled
to meet with Obama at the White House today, dismissed the 1967
borders as “indefensible.”  Obama compared the upheaval in the Middle East and North
Africa to the American Revolution. He said democracy movements
have accomplished more change in a matter of months than
terrorists were able to achieve in decades.  “The events of the past six months show us that strategies
of repression and strategies of diversion will not work
anymore,” Obama said. “Two leaders have stepped aside. More
may follow.”  ‘Narrow Pursuits’  He said that for decades the U.S. has pursued key interests
in the region, including countering terrorism, stemming the flow
of nuclear weapons and standing up for  Israel ’s security along
with pursuing Middle East peace.  While those goals remain important, he said, the U.S.
“must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow
pursuits of these interests will not fill an empty stomach.”  The aid for Egypt includes $1 billion in loan guarantees
through the  Overseas Private Investment Corp.  and cancellation
of $1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt owes the U.S.
An additional several billion dollars’ worth of financing for
Egypt and Tunisia would come from multilateral development
banks,  While the loan guarantees don’t require congressional
approval, the debt relief is subject to authorization from
lawmakers.  Egypt’s Debt  Egypt owes the U.S. about $3 billion and it costs the
country as much as $330 million a year to service that debt. The
U.S. last forgave Egypt’s debt in 1990 because of its
participation in the first war in  Iraq . The amount was $6.7
billion.  Aid to  Tunisia  has declined from $62 million in 1987 to
$1.2 million in 2005. For next year, administration has
requested $6.6 million from Congress, $4.9 million of that for
military assistance.  Egypt’s 10-year dollar bonds rose, pushing yields to the
lowest level since January, and the country’s credit risk
dropped.  The yield on the 5.75 percent debt due in April 2020
tumbled 32 basis points to 5.88 percent at 1:38 p.m. in  New
York . The cost of protecting government debt against default for
five years fell 30 basis points before Obama’s address.  Obama also said Syrian PresidentBashar al-Assad must
choose to lead a transition to greater freedom or “get out of
the way.”  “The Syrian regime has chosen the path of murder and the
mass arrests of its citizens” in response to pro-democracy
demonstrations, Obama said.  He also called on U.S. ally Bahrain to “create the
conditions for dialogue” on the demands of anti-government
protesters and for the government of Yemen to follow through on
commitments to transfer power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  