-- 
Obama’s $210 Million Man Draws on IPO Past to Revamp Government

-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-s-210-million-aide-zients-brings-ipo-skills-to-government-overhaul.html
Jeffrey Zients, who made as much as
$210 million while building two consultancies, is focusing his
business skills on a much larger task these days: overhauling
the “1960s-style” organization of U.S. federal agencies.  The clock is ticking for the 44-year-old runner. The last
time he wasn’t prepared for a race,  Oprah Winfrey  passed him in
a marathon.  President  Barack Obama  has instructed Zients, deputy
director for management at the Office of Management and Budget,
to complete, by June 9, a review of 12 agencies involved in
exports. It’s the first step in a government reorganization that
may result in a scaled-back Commerce Department and eventually
extend to the entire federal bureaucracy in Washington.  “I am big believer in deadlines,” Zients said. “They are
great forcing functions.”  The reorganization is central to Obama’s goal of doubling
U.S. exports by 2015 to spur  job creation  and curb a trade
deficit that surged 43 percent last year, even as exports grew
the most in two decades.  For Zients, who has also been leading an effort to sell
unneeded federal properties to save as much as $15 billion over
three years, the government reorganization amounts to a third
job, along with his White House budget office duties.  “There may be five or six interesting jobs in this town
that most people don’t even know,” and Zients has one of them,
said  Tom Donohue , the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
He’s the “truth-teller” in the federal government and “tells
people that this is the way it’s going to be.”  Days before a potential government shutdown in April, it
was Zients who sent a memo to federal agencies, ordering them to
prepare their workforces for furloughs.  Like an IPO  Zients compares the government-reorganization process with
a company’s initial public offering. “When you decide you are
going to take a company public, you put a stake in the ground,
and there’s a whole calendar,” he said. “Same thing here.”  He has interviewed more than 100 chief executive officers
from large and small businesses, including Brian Roberts of
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Ellen Kullman  of E.I. du Pont de Nemours &
Co., to try to find corporate solutions for a government
problem: How to make federal export agencies function more like
the companies they are supposed to serve.  “Learning from that group can be very, very valuable,” he
said. “In essence, it’s intellectual arbitrage.”  Defeated by Oprah  Zients, who runs 15 to 20 miles a week, also learned
something from one of his early failures. His training regimen
for the  Marine Corps Marathon  in 1994 suffered because of a busy
work schedule. When Winfrey passed him at mile 17, Zients
decided to drop out of the race.  “You clearly have to train hard,” he said.  Raised in the Washington suburbs, Zients attended St.
Albans School, a private school for boys in the city, before
graduating summa cum laude from  Duke University  in Durham,  North
Carolina . In his early 20s, he worked at Bain & Co., a Boston-
based consulting firm, where he met his wife, Mary. They have
four children.  Zients is drawing on his experience at the  Advisory Board
Co. (ABCO)  and the  Corporate Executive Board Co. (EXBD) , the two consultancies
he helped take public. While working at the Advisory Board,
which studies best practices in the health-care industry, he
helped found the Corporate Executive Board to provide more
general research on corporate practices. They took the spinoff
company public first in 1999 and followed with the Advisory
Board in 2001.  ‘Richest Under 40’  By 2004, Zients had landed on  Fortune magazine ’s “40
Richest Under 40” list. He has since estimated his net worth as
high as $210 million, according to  financial-disclosure reports .
He invested in Timbuk2, a privately held San Francisco-based
messenger bag company, and still owns a 50 percent share,
according to disclosure reports. He founded an company,
Portfolio Logic LLC, to manage his investments and is required
to recuse himself from any involvement in businesses whose
shares he owns.  “Jeff has a practice of just always rising to the top,”
said David Bradley, who founded the Advisory Board and, with
Zients, built the Corporate Executive Board.  “He was the 23-year-old research director for me, and
within two years he’s president,” said Bradley, who owns
 Atlantic Media Co.   The challenge for Zients in his latest task is to import
his low-key approach to a political environment where sharp
elbows are often more effective than a smooth PowerPoint
presentation, say his associates.  No Sucking Air  “He wouldn’t come in a room and suck all the air out,”
Donohue said. “But when he gets finished with the room, he
generally has people supporting what he’s trying to do.”  His effort for Obama may eventually grow into a broader
reorganization of the federal government, including the
elimination of some Cabinet-level departments.  For now, he is likely to recommend to the president that
the  Department of Commerce  become a pared-down agency, stripping
it of the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration ,
according to a person familiar with the matter. And in addition
to negotiating export agreements, the office of the  United
States Trade Representative  is likely to receive power to
litigate trade disputes as well.  Even if Obama embraces his plan, there is no guarantee that
Congress will act.  “The problem is not so much opposition in Congress, but
apathy,” said David Osborne, who advised then-Vice President  Al Gore  on the Clinton administration’s plan to reinvent
government, which worked to root out waste in federal spending.  Paring the Workforce  While the government reduced its workforce by 324,580
people from 1993 to 2001, cutting the federal civilian payroll
to its lowest level since 1950, most of the reductions came from
the Defense Department after the  Cold War  ended, according to a
2001 Office of Management and Budget  report .  Zients’s plan may have a better chance for success than
previous efforts because he is taking a piecemeal approach.  “You don’t want to bite off too much,” said Osborne, now
a partner at Public Strategies Group, a consulting firm for
public organizations. “In 1993, when we did the national
performance review, we bit off the whole federal government.”  Zients is “biting off one policy arena at a time,”
Osborne said. “That makes sense.”  One problem with the government’s trade architecture is
that it doesn’t serve its customers, Zients said. Small
businesses, for example, have difficulty navigating federal
programs that could help them promote their goods abroad.  Conglomerates Don’t Work  Gathering different agencies “into a sort of 1960s-style
conglomerate is not the right answer,” Zients said. He cited
the Department of  Homeland Security , which combined 22 agencies,
including the Customs Service and the Coast Guard, when it was
created in 2002, and the 38,000-employee Commerce Department as
two organizations that weren’t well-designed.  “If you are going to bring things together, you need to
integrate in order to take advantage of potential
efficiencies,” he said.  Zients’s background in business has won him praise from
some of the president’s critics, including the finance chairman
for the presidential campaign of Senator  John McCain , the
Arizona Republican whom Obama defeated in 2008.  “He’s not ‘maybe one of the few’ who has experience in the
private sector, he’s the only one of the few,” said Frederic Malek, chairman of Thayer Lodging Group, an Annapolis, Maryland-
based hotel investment group.  “It gives him an advantage of understanding organization
and of understanding how to get things done,” said Malek, who
worked with Zients and other investors to bring baseball back to
 Washington . “He’s accustomed by being measured by results.”  Zients agreed that the lack of performance standards in
government is a recurring problem.  “In the private sector there’s one clear bottom line, and
that’s your profitability,” he said. “In the public sector we
have many metrics, probably too many. But there’s no single
bottom line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  