-- 
Obama, Ryan, Gingrich Muddle Health Debate: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-05-19T23:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-ryan-gingrich-muddle-health-talk-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Love it or hate it, Medicare is
driving itself and our country broke. The president’s proposed
policy and that of  Paul Ryan , the House Budget Committee
chairman, are viewed as miles apart. The reality is different.
And the silly name-calling is obscuring their considerable
common ground. It’s even confusing a major presidential
candidate.  President  Barack Obama  is relying on a special panel, to be
formed in 2014, to get Congress to cut payments to doctors and
hospitals, keeping the national health-insurance program for the
elderly solvent.  If Congress succeeds, older Americans would end up paying a
larger share of their health-care costs via the Medicare Part B
premium, which is deducted from one’s Social Security check
using a complicated progressive formula that isn’t indexed for
inflation. The elderly would also pay, if they can afford it,
more for supplemental policies that cover what Medicare
increasingly doesn’t.  Ryan wants to give Medicare participants money to buy a
basic health-care policy, with the amount of money dependent on
their pre-existing conditions and with the proviso that no one
can be turned down. A panel would decide what the basic policy
covers.  Older Americans who can afford it would buy supplemental
policies to cover what the basic plan doesn’t. As with the
president’s plan, the elderly would likely pay a larger share of
their health-care costs over time.  More Transparency  Both visions for Medicare limit the spending growth in
government-paid old-age health care. But Ryan’s plan has a more
transparent and reliable means of doing so. Under Medicare’s
current fee-for-service structure, the elderly and their doctors
order services and the government pays the fees. Yes, the fees
are set by the government, but the medical system can generate
more income, even at lower fees per service, simply by ordering
up more services.  Ryan’s plan is different. It defines the government’s
contribution to Medicare as the sum of the voucher payments --
and that’s it. The government’s liability is capped.  Ryan’s plan is more progressive than the president’s
because the poor are, on average, sicker than the rich and will
receive, on average, larger vouchers. And his plan, as I
understand it, would retain Medicare’s progressive premium
formula.  Future Retirees  Ryan’s plan has been criticized for letting today’s elderly
stay in the old system, while future retirees wouldn’t enjoy the
same increases in benefits. His plan should be modified to
include today’s elderly and to keep Medicare expanding at the
right rate -- namely, the growth rate of the economy. One just
sets the voucher budget each year as a fixed share of gross
domestic product.  The president also doubts the role of insurance companies
in Ryan’s plan. Ryan’s plan encourages competition among
insurers, which would supply the same basic health-care coverage
set by a government panel. The insurance companies would be
regulated, earn modest profits, and be insulated from
congressional meddling when the public starts lobbying for more
medical services than the country can afford.  Today’s system also features insurance companies, albeit a
single one called Medicare. The president wants to keep our
single insurance company and get it to simply reject bills that
are too high. Ryan’s plan scores more points here as well.  Not Far Apart  Given that Obama’s and Ryan’s plans aren’t that far apart,
what can be done to make a marriage?  They need to agree first on the share of GDP to be spent on
Medicare each year, and then to find an efficient, progressive
and foolproof way to make those and only those expenditures. I
think Ryan should give on the Medicare-to-GDP spending share and
Obama should go for Ryan’s mechanism, which, incidentally, is
the same one used in the president’s health-exchange system.  Getting these grownups to play nice may be impossible,
especially after Obama criticized the Ryan plan because it
relies on “privatization” and “vouchers,” as if that’s a
dirty word.  In fact, the current Medicare system provides a voucher in
the form of a Medicare card entitling one to health care
subsidized by the government. Ryan’s plan doesn’t actually use
the V word, but it too provides a right for participants to buy
health care subsidized by the government.  The big difference is that the current system’s voucher is
open-ended, whereas Ryan’s is capped. But the president wants to
have his panel fix what his voucher will cover and pay. So it
too is capped. As for privatization, both the current system and
Ryan’s plan rely on private companies to provide health care.  Gingrich’s Jump  To make matters murkier, presidential candidate  Newt Gingrich  has jumped into the fray, calling the current system
“left-wing social engineering” and Ryan’s plan “right-wing
social engineering.” I guess a Democratic open-ended voucher
that would be limited by a panel in what it can buy is left
wing, and a Republican voucher that pays for a fixed set of
basic health-care services is right wing. Glad Gingrich sorted
out the essence of our political differences.  But Gingrich did let slip one thing that made sense. In the
process of castigating social engineering, he endorsed it by
saying that people must be forced to buy or simply be given
health insurance so they don’t free-ride on society.  Since then, Gingrich has said he is in favor of Ryan’s
plan, no longer supports health-care mandates, and is “glad to
answer any Democrat who attempts to distort what I said.”  That’s a tough assignment, given that Gingrich seems to
have no idea what he said and less idea what he meant.  Our politicians’ childish word games would all be great fun
were the nation’s solvency and our economy’s future not hanging
in the balance.  (Laurence Kotlikoff is a professor of economics at  Boston
University , and is the author of thepurplehealthplan.org. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  