-- 
Obama Calls for Israel-Palestine Talks on 1967 Borders

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T21:07:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-says-israeli-palestinian-peace-negotiations-more-urgent-than-ever-.html
President  Barack Obama  said peace
negotiations between  Israel  and the Palestinians are “more
urgent than ever” and for the first time called for a
settlement based on the 1967 borders.  While saying the U.S. commitment to Israel’s security is
“unshakable,” Obama called on the country to “act boldly to
advance a lasting peace.” He said all Palestinians must accept
Israel’s legitimacy and forgo an attempt to isolate the Jewish
state in the United Nations.  “The international community is tired of an endless
process that never produces an outcome,” Obama said in an
address on U.S. policy amid the upheaval in the Middle East and
North Africa.  Obama’s address sought to frame U.S. policy at what he
called a “moment of opportunity” created by pro-democracy
movements that are sweeping the region and ousted longtime
leaders in Egypt and  Tunisia . The changes also have brought
violent crackdowns against protesters in Syria and Bahrain and
an armed revolt in  Libya .  Obama tied the broader transformation going on in the
region to the need for resolution of the conflict between Israel
and the Palestinians, which he said has “cast a shadow over the
region” for decades.  More Urgent  “At a time when the people of the Middle East and North
Africa are casting off the burdens of the past, the drive for a
lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims is
more urgent than ever,” he said.  Negotiations must be based on the goal of creating a viable
Palestinian state and a secure Israel, Obama said.  “The borders of Israel and  Palestine  should be based on
the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and
recognized borders are established for both states,” Obama said
at the State Department in Washington. “Palestinians should
know the territorial outlines of their state; Israelis should
know that their basic security concerns will be met.”  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, in a statement,
rejected a return to the 1967 borders, “which are both
indefensible and which would leave major Israeli population
centers in Judea and Samaria beyond those lines.”  Definitions  Netanyahu, who is under domestic political pressure from
members of his government not to make territorial concessions,
said he expects Obama to reaffirm a 2004 statement by the
administration of then-President  George W. Bush  that the final
agreement not entail a “full and complete return” to the 1967
borders.  Obama is set to meet with Netanyahu tomorrow at the White
House. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas  wrote in an
opinion article published in the New York Times that, in the
absence of negotiations, the Palestinians would unilaterally
seek  United Nations  recognition of an independent state within
the 1967 borders.  The 1967 boundaries with mutually agreed swaps have always
been a frame of reference to settle issues over territory, said
Haim Malka, deputy director of the Middle East program at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.  “It’s pretty consistent with how this crisis is going to
be resolved,” he said. “The question is how the president gets
Netanyahu and Abbas back to the negotiating table based on a
process that tries to tackle borders and security first.”  Policy Movement  Daniel Kurtzer, a former ambassador to Israel and to Egypt
who is now a professor of Middle Eastern policy studies at
 Princeton University , said that while it has been assumed that
the 1967 borders will form the basis for an agreement, “when
you finally get an articulation of U.S. policy, it means
something.”  “Policy does evolve incrementally, and this is an
incremental step forward,” he said.  About 500,000 Jews have moved to the  West Bank  and
 Jerusalem  since Israel captured the territories in the 1967
Middle East war. The UN says the settlements are illegal, and
the International Committee of the Red Cross says they breach
the  Fourth Geneva Convention  governing actions on occupied
territory.  Israel says the settlements don’t fall under the convention
because the territory wasn’t recognized as belonging to any
country before the 1967 war, in which Israel prevailed, and
therefore isn’t occupied.  Malka said Obama’s language on the  peace process  was more
robust than expected because he called for a specific framework
of negotiations to deal directly with borders and security as
opposed to a more comprehensive approach that dealt with all the
outstanding issues.  Further Negotiations  Obama said the status of Jerusalem and agreement on the
rights of Palestinian refugees to return to the new nation
should be determined once the stalled talks resume.  “They’re issues that are less symbolic, more practical,”
Malka said. “The president believes there’s a greater chance of
reaching an agreement on borders and security at this point.”  Obama said both sides will have to move from entrenched
positions to achieve an agreement.  For Israel, “the dream of a Jewish and democratic state
cannot be fulfilled with permanent occupation,” he said. “For
the Palestinians, efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in
failure.”  Kurtzer said the president offered even-handed rebukes and
expressions of support to both the Israelis and the
Palestinians.  “Both sides are going to find parts of this speech that
they’re not going to like, and both should find parts that they
do like,” he said.  Economic Development  On the broader issues in the Middle East and North Africa,
Obama said economic development must follow political reforms in
the region, promising $2 billion in loan guarantees and debt
forgiveness for  Egypt  and measures to stabilize Tunisia’s
economy.  The democracy movements sweeping from  Yemen  to Tunisia and
the death of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden are opening a “new
chapter in American diplomacy,” Obama said.  “Just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack
of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions
depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity,”
he said.  The aid for Egypt includes $1 billion in loan guarantees
through the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation  and
cancellation of $1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt
owes the U.S. An additional several billion dollars’ worth of
financing for Egypt and Tunisia would come from multilateral
development banks,  U.S. Interests  Obama said that for decades the U.S. has pursued core
interests in the region, such as countering terrorism, stemming
the flow of nuclear weapons and standing up for Israel’s
security along with pursuing Middle East peace.  While those goals remain important, he said, the U.S.
“must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow
pursuits of these interests will not fill an empty stomach.”  Obama said Syrian PresidentBashar al-Assad must choose to
lead a transition to greater freedom or “get out of the way.”  “The Syrian regime has chosen the path of murder and the
mass arrests of its citizens” in response to pro-democracy
demonstrations, Obama said.  He also called on U.S. ally Bahrain, home of the U.S.
Navy’s  Fifth Fleet , to “create the conditions for dialogue” on
the demands of anti-government protesters and for the government
of Yemen to follow through on commitments to transfer power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Washington  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  