-- 
Obama Tells Party Donors of Women’s Rights and Opportunities

-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-05-20T01:42:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-tells-party-activists-opportunities-for-women-are-improved.html
President  Barack Obama  addressed
women’s issues during two fundraising events for the  Democratic
National Committee  today, telling supporters that the part of
his Middle East speech that resonated most with the audience at
the State Department was his call for “unleashing the untapped
power of half of that population.”  Obama told donors at a private dinner that the “headlines”
from his remarks outlining U.S. policy amid the upheaval in the
Middle East and North Africa were “we stand squarely behind
democratic and political reforms” and “we will continue to
pursue a just and equitable peace between Israelis and the
Palestinians.” Still, he said, the “biggest applause” was for
his argument that democratic reform and human rights reform in
the region hinge on improving  women’s rights .  Earlier, at the DNC’s  Women’s Leadership Forum National
Issues Conference , he told about 550 party activists that
“obviously the economy as a whole has an enormous impact on
women and everything women are doing to hold families together
during extraordinarily rough times.”  He said his administration’s approach on the economy --
including the revival of the U.S. auto industry, job-creation
programs and the revamping of the health-care system -- has
improved opportunities for women.  Equal-Pay Law  As he listed his administration’s accomplishments, he noted
that as part of the health-care overhaul enacted last year, it
is now illegal to charge women more than men and the costs of
preventive care -- including mammograms -- are fully covered. He
also said he was trying to help women get equal pay, citing
passage of legislation making it easier for workers to win pay-
discrimination lawsuits -- the first bill he signed into law as
president.  “I want to make sure that my daughters and all of our
daughters have the chance to be whatever they want,” he said at
the Grand Hyatt hotel in downtown  Washington , where the group
held a daylong meeting to encourage women to be active within
the party by campaigning and raising funds for Democratic
candidates.  Planned Parenthood  The largest round of applause came when he said “I’m not
willing to defund Planned Parenthood,” a reference to the
congressional battle earlier this year over government funding
for the family planning agency, which supports abortion rights
and performs abortions in some locations.  As he began his remarks, Obama joked that he had just left
a women’s leadership forum of his own at dinner -- his wife,
Michelle Obama, and his daughters, Malia and Sasha.  Earlier today the group heard from, among others,  Michelle
Obama  and Florida Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, whom
the president has picked to lead the DNC.  Afterward, Obama spoke at a dinner for 50 people at the
Washington home of lawyer  John Phillips , who was on Obama’s 2008
national finance committee, and his wife, Linda Douglass, who
until last year served as spokeswoman for the White House Office
of Health Reform. Phillips was the host for the event and
Douglass, now vice president for strategic communications at
Atlantic Media, was not in attendance, according to a Democratic
Party official who spoke on condition of anonymity to provide
details.  Unfinished Tasks  Obama said that while his administration has helped the
economy grow again, “our goal was never just to get back to
where we were in 2007 and 2008.” He listed implementation of
the health-care overhaul and the financial regulatory law, along
with a new clean  energy policy , as things yet to be done, and
said he is “confident” that he will get “five and a half more
years to finish the job” his administration has started.  Ticket prices for the two events ranged from $250 to
$35,800, the legal maximum limit, according to the party
official.  Obama has already opened his 2012 re-election campaign
headquarters in  Chicago , and he raised millions of dollars last
month at events in  Illinois ,  California  and  New York .  The president is similarly active this month: On May 16 he
raised more than $1 million at two DNC fundraisers in Washington.
Yesterday Obama raised money for the DNC at two events in the
Boston area -- a reception with about 900 people at the Boston
Center for the Arts, where he raised an unspecified amount, and
a dinner with 130 supporters at a home in suburban Brookline,
 Massachusetts , where the host, Jack Connors, the chairman
emeritus of the marketing and communications company  Hill
Holliday , said $2.2 million was raised.  The total cost of the 2012 presidential election campaign
is likely to exceed the more than $2 billion the  Federal
Election Commission  said was spent in 2008 by candidates,
political parties and outside groups.  Obama raised a record $745 million in 2007-08, and he was
the first major-party nominee to reject public financing for the
general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  