-- 
Obama Speech to Test Extent of U.S. Influence in a Fast-Changing Mideast

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-speech-to-test-extent-of-u-s-influence-in-a-fast-changing-mideast.html
When President  Barack Obama  outlines
his vision of U.S. policy in the Middle East today, his
challenge will be to get people in the region to care.  The excitement generated by Obama’s call two years ago for
a “new beginning” in U.S.-Arab relations evaporated as people
waited for changes that haven’t come, said  Robert Danin  of the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and others who study the region.  As protests have swept the Arab world, toppling some
leaders and challenging others, U.S. influence has been
diminished by a response seen as cautious and inconsistent,
Danin and other analysts said. And the U.S. has suffered some
public diplomatic setbacks in dealing with Bahrain, Yemen,
Syria, and the Israelis and Palestinians.  “It’s not clear what the  United States  says right now
matters to the people of the Middle East,” Danin said. “The
people of the Arab world are more interested in seeing what the
United States does, not what it has to say.”  To be sure, the Obama administration had an impact in
urging the Egyptian army leadership not to crush protests and
ended up playing a leading role in sending NATO to protect
Libyan rebels. Still, analysts said, many in the region are
skeptical of U.S. pronouncements at a time when they are taking
events into their own hands.  People in the region will be listening for what specifics
Obama offers on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and on his
administration’s position on the Arab Spring, said several
analysts.  Influence ‘Fading’  “U.S. influence was already fading in a lot of places”
before the Arab Spring movement erupted, said  Marina Ottaway ,
Middle East program director at the  Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace  in Washington. “The U.S. has had very
limited capacity to determine what was going on inside these
countries, and very often it has found itself having to follow
the lead of these countries.”  Ghaith al-Omari, a former Palestinian negotiator, said
“expectations for this speech in the Arab world are so low.”  “Arabs are skeptical about this speech,” he said in a
telephone interview. “They do not have their hopes up. More
importantly, the U.S. has not figured highly in the Arab
revolts.”  Aid has long been one lever of influence in the region.
Obama will announce a series of economic measures intended to
help nations in the Middle East and North Africa, such as  Egypt 
and  Tunisia , that are going through a transition to democracy,
according to administration officials who briefed reporters on
the condition of anonymity.  $1 Billion  The aid for Egypt includes $1 billion in loan guarantees
through the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation  and
cancellation of $1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt
owes the U.S. An additional several billion dollars’ worth of
financing for Egypt and Tunisia would come from multilateral
development banks, the officials said, without providing
details.  The new proposal is on top of the $2 billion that Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  in March pledged through OPIC for the
region. The officials said Obama will also reiterate his
administration’s support for a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund,
which, pending approval by Congress, would be created with $60
million to stimulate private-sector investment and provide
businesses with access to low-cost capital.  Obama said this week after meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II at the White House that it is critical that economic
reforms accompany political changes.  Seize the Opportunity  The assistance is one element of Obama’s speech at the
State Department, scheduled for 11:40 a.m. local time, in which
he will outline how the U.S. can seize the opportunity from the
changes that have swept across the Middle East and North Africa
over the past five months.  The unrest in the region has sent the  Bloomberg GCC 200
Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf shares down 2.3 percent this year and helped drive
the price of oil up 43 percent the past year on concern that it
might spread to major oil producers. Crude for June delivery was
at $100.35 a barrel, up 25 cents, in electronic trading on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:38 p.m. Sydney time.  Obama will outline several areas that form a long-term
vision for the region’s economy. The initiatives focus on
supporting institutions -- such as non-government organizations
and universities -- that contribute to economic policy making;
providing international support to modernize and promote the
stability of local economies and financial institutions; and
creating frameworks for regional and global trade opportunities.  U.S. Setbacks  The administration has seen that there are limitations on
its influence, as well as opportunities.  Longtime ally  Saudi Arabia  recently signaled its intent to
pursue foreign policy goals that at times will go against U.S.
interests in the region. In a May 15 opinion article in the
 Washington  Post, former Saudi adviser Nawaf Obaid wrote that the
oil-rich kingdom is breaking its lockstep with “misguided”
U.S. policy in the region, including its “unconscionable
refusal to hold  Israel  accountable for its illegal settlement
building.”  Bahrain’s Sunni Muslim monarchy has ignored Obama
administration calls to respect human rights and negotiate with
the Shiite-majority protesters. Instead, it has put doctors and
activists on trial and has torn down some Shiite mosques.  Defying U.S. warnings against unilateral action,
Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is intent on a
United Nations vote in September to recognize a Palestinian
state. In a recent opinion article in the New York Times, Abbas
highlighted the U.S. failure to stop Israeli settlement-
building, even using political pressure and “promises of
rewards.”  Saying ‘No’  Yesterday, Yemeni president Ali Abdullah Saleh rebuffed an
appeal by  John Brennan , Obama’s top counterterrorism adviser, to
step down and implement a political transition agreement. And
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad continues to ignore U.S. calls
to address the demands of protesters.  Another lever of U.S. influence, American military power,
has proven disappointing so far to Libyan rebels, as  Muammar Qaddafi  continues to withstand military attacks and defy U.S.
demands that he leave office.  The success of the U.S. and NATO involvement in  Libya  will
be “evaluated against the regime’s survival or its collapse,”
Obama’s former national security adviser, retired Marine Gen.
James Jones, said at the  National Press Club  on May 16. “That
may be unfortunate, but it happens to be the reality.”  Ottaway said that one factor in the decline of U.S.
influence in the region was the invasion of  Iraq , which many in
Persian Gulf nations saw as benefiting their rival,  Iran .
“There was a lot of anger at the United States in the Persian
Gulf for changing the balance of power, for serving Iraq to Iran
on a platter,” she said.  Inconsistency  Another factor has been the administration’s seeming
inconsistency, Ottaway said. While the U.S. and allies bombed
Libya in order to protect civilians from attacks by government
forces, they have not been nearly as assertive about  Syria  or
Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s Fifth Fleet.  “The reality is that even as freedom is more popular, as
individual freedoms and rights are more popular, U.S. direct
influence may diminish,” said Robin Wright, a senior fellow at
the  U.S. Institute of Peace , a nonpartisan policy center that
serves Congress.  That could be inevitable in places like Egypt, where   Hosni Mubarak , during his three decades as president, got aid and
political support from his alliance with the United States.  “If you open up political systems, you clearly are going
to have more complicated relationships and possibly less sway
because you’re dealing with lots of different parties,” Wright
said. “You’ve got to accommodate more than just one man.”  Marwan Muasher, a former foreign minister of Jordan, said
that if Obama’s approach fails to impress, “the U.S. will lose
influence in this process.”  “This is a new Arab world, and you cannot address new
realities by applying old policies,” he said in a May 17
telephone interview. “People are not looking for a lesson on
democracy; people are looking for action.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  