-- 
Obama to Push Development to Aid Democracy Movements

-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/obama-to-push-economic-development.html
President  Barack Obama  tomorrow will
propose a multibillion-dollar plan to support economic
development and promote democratic movements in the Middle East
and North Africa as part of a speech that seeks to clarify the
U.S. role in the region’s historic transformation.  The package combines debt relief and loan guarantees
focused on Egypt and  Tunisia , where democratic transitions have
already taken root after the toppling of longtime regimes and
where the economies are projected to grow at a rate of 
1 percent or less, according to administration officials who 
briefed reporters on the condition of anonymity.  Egypt’s and Tunisia’s “economic outlooks were positive
before recent events, but they are now facing a series of
economic dislocations,” according to a White House fact sheet.
“Absent action, we run the risk of allowing economic
instability to undermine the political transition.”  The assistance is one element of Obama’s speech at the
State Department in which he will outline how the U.S. can seize
the opportunity presented by the still evolving upheaval that
has swept across the Middle East and North Africa over the past
five months. The outcomes remain uncertain, and in nations such
as Yemen, Libya and  Syria , demonstrations have been met with
violent crackdowns. The turmoil also has implications for the
stalled  peace process  between  Israel  and the Palestinians.  Loans and Debt  The aid for Egypt includes $1 billion in loan guarantees
through the  Overseas Private Investment Corporation  and
cancellation of $1 billion in debt, about a third of what Egypt
owes the U.S. An additional several billion dollars’ worth of
financing for Egypt and Tunisia would come from multilateral
development banks, the officials said, without providing
details.  The new proposal is on top of the $2 billion that Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  in March pledged through OPIC for the
region. The officials said Obama will also reiterate his
administration’s support for a U.S.-Egypt Enterprise Fund,
which, pending approval by Congress, would be created with $60
million to stimulate private-sector investment and provide
businesses with access to low-cost capital.  While the loan guarantees don’t require congressional
approval, the debt relief is subject to authorization from
lawmakers.  The unrest has sent the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of Gulf
shares down 2.3 percent this year and helped drive the price of
oil up 43 percent the past year on concern that it might spread
to major oil producers. Crude for June delivery was at $99.83 a
barrel, down 27 cents, in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  at 9:14 a.m. Sydney time.  Economic Reforms  Obama said this week after meeting with Jordan’s King Abdullah II at the White House that it is critical that economic
reforms accompany the political changes.  “So much of what’s taking place has to do with the
aspirations of young people throughout the Arab world for their
ability to determine their own fate, to get an education, to get
a job, to be able to support a family,” Obama said May 17.
“And that means some of the old structures that were inhibiting
their ability to progress have to be reworked.”  Describing Egypt and Tunisia as beacons for the democratic
movements in the Arab world, officials said successful
transitions will depend on making sure those countries remain
attractive to financial markets and for private-sector
investment.  Region’s Economy  Obama will outline several areas that form a long-term
vision for the region’s economy. The initiatives focus on
supporting institutions such as non-government organizations and
universities that contribute to economic policy making;
providing international support to modernize and promote the
stability of local economies and financial institutions; and
creating frameworks for regional and global trade opportunities.  The turmoil in Egypt that led to the ouster of President
 Hosni Mubarak  after three decades in office has slowed economic
growth, while foreign investors have dumped Egyptian government
debt and factory output has declined as a result of protests and
strikes. The country has asked the  International Monetary Fund 
for financial assistance so it can meet $12 billion in financing
needs through June 2012.  Officials said the administration will work to generate
international support through institutions, including the IMF
and the  World Bank , to provide additional resources.  Obama is also committed to reorienting the  European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development  to play a similarly
transformative role in North Africa as it did in post-Communist
eastern  Europe . The 61-member EBRD has said it may be able to
invest as much as $1.4 billion in  Egypt  and  Morocco .  U.S. Aid  The U.S. currently provides Egypt about $1.5 billion a year
in aid, including $1.3 billion for its military. Egypt owes the
U.S. about $3 billion and it costs them as much as $330 million
a year to service that debt. The U.S. last forgave Egyptian debt
-- $6.7 billion worth -- in 1990 following Egypt’s participation
in the first war in  Iraq .  The U.S. has provided Tunisia with almost $400 million over
the past 25 years, and the administration has requested $6.6
million for the next fiscal year, with the bulk, $4.9 million,
in military aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  