-- 
Lockheed Addressing F-35 ‘Development Risks,’ Congress Told

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-05-19T21:58:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/lockheed-addressing-development-risks-of-f-35-congress-told.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and the U.S.
Defense Department have begun a “risk management” program to
keep the  F-35 Joint Strike Fighter  within budget and on
schedule, U.S. defense officials told Congress today.  “We want it, but it has to be affordable,”  Ashton Carter ,
the Pentagon’s top weapons buyer, told the Senate Armed Services
committee. “At the moment in its projections, it’s not.”  Carter said the cost of an F-35 has increased to about $95
million apiece in 2002 dollars, up from an original estimate of
$80 million. In today’s dollars, the planes would cost $133
million each, according to the Government Accountability Office.
The Pentagon plans to buy more than 2,400.  “The four highest development risks” are the software,
pilot controls, safely touching down with a full load on the
vertical-landing version of the plane, and helmet-mounted
displays, said Carter, who testified with Vice Admiral  David
Venlet , the F-35 program manager, and David Van Buren, the  Air
Force ’s top weapons buyer.  The department has begun a “detailed risk-management
process to address these,” Carter said.  At $382 billion, the F-35 fighter program is the Pentagon’s
most expensive. This estimate is likely to increase after a
Pentagon review scheduled next week provides updated information
on the program’s status.  Costs Increasing  The first batch of 28 jets being made by Lockheed may be as
much as 15 percent more expensive than the $6.43 billion
estimate, Venlet said on May 2. The fiscal 2012 budget seeks
$9.7 billion for the jet’s development.  “This committee has been a strong supporter of the Joint
Strike Fighter from the beginning,” panel chairman Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat, said in his opening statement.
“Nonetheless, people should not conclude that we will be
willing to continue that kind of support without regard to
increased costs.”  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the committee’s senior
Republican, said Lockheed Martin “has done an abysmal job in
meeting the original contract’s objective” in the now $51
billion development phase that’s slipped another 13 months.  Carter and the Pentagon’s director of cost assessment and
program evaluation, Christine Fox, said they also needed to cut
the program’s estimated $1 trillion long-term maintenance and
support costs.  Long-Term Costs  “We can’t afford to pay that much,” Carter said of the
combined per-plane cost increase and maintenance and other
support estimate.  Fox said the F-35’s estimated maintenance and support
costs, while less than those of the F-22, the military’s other
stealth fighter, are about 33 percent more than the older F-16s
and F-18s it’s replacing.  Lockheed Martin Executive Vice President Tom Burbage in
prepared testimony said the company “is attacking every element
of cost within our operation, both direct and indirect.  ‘‘We have invested over $1 billion in factory efficiencies
and another $450 million in information system improvements.’’  The Pentagon has placed orders for four trial lots of the
plane from Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed. The first three
were cost-plus basis contracts and the fourth was a fixed-price
one.  Lockheed has submitted a proposal for the fifth lot, which
is currently under negotiation, the Pentagon officials told
Congress today. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  has put the jet’s
short take-off, vertical-landing model on a two-year probation
pending fixes.  ‘High Confidence’  Venlet told the panel he had ‘‘high confidence’’ that the
Marine Corps version would emerge successfully from the
probation.  Engineers have redesigned components of the complex main
propulsion system and auxiliary air inlet doors. Changes are
required because of lift-fan clutch drag and driveshaft
expansion, issues unique to the short-takeoff and vertical
landing version, he said.  ‘‘We have engineering solutions for each of those,’’ Venlet
told reporters after the hearing. Still, ‘‘I don’t declare
victory until I have tests that proves the design is good,’’
Venlet said.  Allies Buying  The U.S. has commitments from allies to buy as many as 500
jets, the officials said in their testimony today.  Israel  placed an order in October for 19 jets valued at
$2.75 billion and the Pentagon is exploring foreign sales beyond
the eight current F-35 partner countries, the officials said.  During the last year, the program delivered the first four
conventional take-off model jets to Edwards Air Force base in
 California , the officials said. Two short take-off models and
one aircraft-carrier variant were delivered to the Naval Air
Station Patuxent River in  Maryland  for testing, they said.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit, based in
Hartford,  Connecticut , which supplies the F-35 engines, was
three weeks late in delivering the first seven in 2011, the
defense officials said today.  One more engine will be delayed before Pratt catches up
with the schedule, they said. The engine delays won’t affect the
plane’s delivery dates, they said.  ‘500 Percent’  Carter disagreed with Senator  Scott Brown , Republican of
 Massachusetts , who said the engine’s cost had increased by 500
percent since 2008.  ‘‘The 500 percent number is not correct,” Carter said. The
engine cost has increased by a “factor of two in real terms
over the decade.”  Gates has canceled an alternative engine to the F-35 being
developed by  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/) , and
the Pentagon is in the process of terminating that contract.
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric has said it will
continue developing the engine on its own.  Whatever GE does “is up to them,” Carter said and
reiterated that continuing development of the second engine
would have cost the Pentagon an additional $2.9 billion -- an
amount that General Electric disputes.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  