-- 
Oil, Subsidies May Thwart India’s Deficit Goal, RBI Governor Subbarao Says

-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 
2011-05-19T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/oil-subsidies-may-thwart-india-s-deficit-goal-rbi-governor-subbarao-says.html
Rising crude oil and commodity prices
may force  India  to increase spending on subsidies, thwarting the
government’s goal of cutting the  budget deficit  to a four-year
low, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said yesterday.  Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee on Feb. 28 forecast a 4.6
percent budget shortfall for the year ending March 31, the least
since 2008, assuming cuts in fuel and fertilizer subsidies. The
government, which caps prices of diesel to curb inflation and
appease voters, hasn’t allowed state-owned refiners to charge
more for the fuel since June 26.  “Given that crude prices and fertilizer prices have gone
up since the budget, unless some adjustment is made, either on
the expenditure side or on the tax side, it is difficult to
deliver on the target,” Subbarao told reporters in the
northeastern city of Agartala.  The  Reserve Bank of India , which raised  interest rates  on
May 3 for the ninth time in 15 months, said containing the
deficit is key to moderating demand and inflation. Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government partially compensates
state-refiners for selling fuels below market prices, with the
companies losing 4.95 billion rupees ($110 million) in daily
revenue.  India’s wholesale-price index rose 8.66 percent in April
from a year earlier, more than economists’ estimated.  Oil prices 
have risen 44 percent in the past year. Mukherjee assumed a 38
percent cut in oil subsidies.  Gasoline Prices  India increased the cost of gasoline by as much as 8.5
percent last week, the biggest rise in three years, triggering
protests by the main opposition party.  “When inflation is running at a faster pace, it’s
difficult to understand how the government will be able to keep
its expenditure at the projected 4 percent increase level,”
said Rupa Rege Nitsure, an economist at state-owned  Bank of
Baroda . “Higher spending on subsidies to keep a lid on
inflation will result in the government overshooting its deficit
target.”  She estimates the deficit gap to widen to 5.1 percent in
the current fiscal year, compared with the 4.6 percent
government estimate.  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said on May 3 inflation will stay
at an “elevated level” until September as he raised the
central bank’s repurchase rate by half a percentage point to
7.25 percent.  Rate increases in India will slow growth this year and help
ease inflation to 6 percent “with an upward bias” by March 31,
2012, Subbarao said.  India’s economy  may expand “around 8
percent” in the year through March from 8.6 percent in the
previous 12 months, he estimated.  “The  Reserve Bank  of India will monitor the situation and
take appropriate action at the appropriate time,” to control
inflation, Subbarao said. “This is our priority and I only want
to reiterate that we have said in the annual policy statement.
We need to bring inflation down to acceptable levels in order to
make our growth sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  