-- 
Oil Climbs in New York on Signs of Fuel Demand, Heads for Weekly Decline

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-20T12:02:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/oil-for-july-delivery-rises-0-5-percent-today-heads-for-weekly-decline.html
Oil rose in  New York , trimming its
weekly decline, on signs of growing fuel demand in the world’s
two biggest crude-consuming nations.  July delivery futures climbed as much as 1.2 percent
following a 1.6 percent drop yesterday. U.S. jobless claims fell
by a more-than-forecast 29,000 in the week ended May 14,
according to the Labor Department. China’s diesel demand may
climb as factories turn to the fuel this summer for power
generation amid electricity rationing,  Barclays Capital  said.  “Oil is tracking macroeconomic events,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “With volumes
pretty low we’re likely to remain within a narrow trading range,
capped at about $114 for Brent, provided no fresh geopolitical
jitters emerge.”  Crude for July delivery, the most active contract for West
Texas Intermediate, rose as much as $1.16 to $100.09 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , and was
at $99.19 at 12:54 p.m. London time. The June contract, which
expires today, gained 30 cents to $98.74. Futures are 0.9
percent lower this week and up 45 percent in the past year.  Brent crude  for July settlement was at $111.35, down 17
cents, at $111.25 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange. It slipped 88 cents to $111.42 a barrel
yesterday, the lowest settlement since May 17.  German Growth  Oil pared earlier gains after  Germany ’s Bundesbank said
Europe’s largest economy will probably lose some growth
momentum. The dollar gained 0.6 percent against the euro,
reducing the appeal of commodities price in the U.S. currency.  European benchmark Brent traded at a premium of $12.05 a
barrel to U.S. futures, compared with $12.49 yesterday. The
difference between front-month contracts in  London  and New York
surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as unrest spread in the
Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles climbed at Cushing.
The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  A gauge of the outlook for the  U.S. economy  for the next
three to six months slid for the first time since June and sales
of existing U.S. homes unexpectedly declined, reports showed
yesterday.  “The market is still divided about the economic numbers
out of the U.S.,” said  Jonathan Barratt , managing director of
Commodity Broking Services Pty in Sydney, who predicted oil will
average $100 this year.  The longest decline in the profit from producing diesel in
Asia since August 2008 may be ending as  China ’s worst energy
shortage in seven years forces factories to rely on the fuel to
power generators, a Bloomberg survey showed.  China Demand  The return from processing crude into diesel, known as the
crack spread, is likely to stay at about $18 a barrel through
the summer after tumbling 24 percent over the past six weeks,
according to the median estimate of four traders and refiners
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The spread was $17.38 yesterday.  Diesel demand in China may increase 6.5 percent this year
to 3.35 million barrels a day as manufacturers use the fuel in
generators, according to the  International Energy Agency . China
is rationing electricity as utilities cut output because of
rising coal costs and government price caps at the same time as
supplies are curbed by the lowest water levels since 2003 on the
 Yangtze River , site of the world’s biggest hydropower dam.  Crude oil may rise next week as economic growth bolsters
fuel demand in the U.S., the biggest oil-consuming country, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Eighteen of 43 analysts, or 42 percent, forecast oil will
increase through May 27. Fifteen respondents, or 35 percent,
predicted prices will decline and 10 projected little change.  OPEC will raise exports by the most since mid-February this
month to meet growing demand from  Asia , according to tanker
tracker Oil Movements. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries will ship 22.91 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to June 4, up 1.9 percent from 22.49 million in the period
ended May 7, the consultant said yesterday in a report.  The International Energy Agency said yesterday that oil
producers need to increase supplies as prices are threatening
the global economic recovery. OPEC is next due to meet on June 8
in Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  