-- 
Mol First-Quarter Net Soars on Higher Oil Prices, Output

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-19T15:26:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mol-first-quarter-net-soars-on-higher-oil-prices-output-2-.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
said net income in the first quarter more than quadrupled from a
year earlier because of rising  oil prices , record-high
production and a gain on inventory revaluation.  Profit jumped to 92.7 billion forint ($492 million) from 19
billion forint a year earlier, the company said in a filing to
the Budapest Stock Exchange. That compares with a mean estimate
of 95.6 billion forint of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Oil prices advanced 9 percent this year as unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
 Egypt  and spread to  Libya . Crises in the Middle East, coupled
with the impact from  Japan ’s worst nuclear crisis, will have a
“significant” effect on long-term energy prices, Ray Eyles,
chief executive officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s commodities
business in  Asia , said in an interview.  “We estimate similar external conditions for the full year
as in the first quarter,” Mol Chief Executive Officer Jozsef Molnar said in a phone interview today. “The operating result
should reflect the first-quarter performance.”  Mol shares dropped 1.7 percent to 22,895 forint at the
close in Budapest, falling the most in two weeks. The stock
gained 10 percent this year, compared with a 7 percent return on
the benchmark BUX index.  Mol sees Brent crude prices of between $100 and $110 a
barrel this year, the same as diesel crack spread per ton,
Molnar said. The petrol crack spread may average $120-$130 per
ton, Molnar said. Diesel demand in central  Europe  could rise as
much as 3 percent this year while demand for petrol may
stagnate, he said.  Mol expects to continue producing 150,000 barrels of oil
equivalent per day for the full year, he said. The company’s
daily output rose to a record 151,200 barrel of oil equivalent
in the first quarter.  The company is “examining” downstream acquisition targets
in central Europe and is also considering upstream expansion,
Molnar said. He declined to elaborate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs at   ebalazs1@bloomberg.net 
Zoltan Simon at   zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  