-- 
Tombini Says Brazil Has ‘Work Ahead’ to Slow Inflation to Target in 2012

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-05-19T15:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/tombini-says-brazil-has-work-ahead-to-slow-inflation-to-target-in-2012.html
Brazil  has “work ahead” of it to
bring inflation back to target next year amid demand pressures,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said today.  Tombini, in a conference call with reporters today, said
the central bank already stated it will adjust monetary policy
for a period sufficiently long to align consumer price increases
with the mid-point of its 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target
range.  “We have work ahead of us in order to consistently anchor
and bring inflation to the 4.5 percent target,” Tombini said.
“The center of the target will be met in 2012.”  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is relying on a
mix of higher  interest rates , spending cuts and measures to curb
credit growth to fight the fastest inflation in more than five
years. Tombini said the economy is on a “consistent path” to
meet its inflation target in 2012 as economic expansion slows.
He said he expects monthly consumer price increases to be in
line with the year-end target in the months ahead.  Consumer prices rose 6.51 percent in the year through
April, breaching the upper limit of the government’s target
range for the first time since 2005.  Yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing January
2013, the most traded on the BM&F Bovespa stock exchange today,
rose 1 basis points to 12.51 percent at 11:09 a.m. New York
time. The real fell 0.4 percent to 1.6156 per  U.S. dollar .  The central bank increased the benchmark interest rate by a
quarter-point to 12 percent in April, after raising it half a
percentage point in each of its previous two meetings.  As a result of government measures to curb credit growth,
especially to consumers, bank lending will grow by no more than
15 percent this year, Tombini said.  While borrowing will increase at a faster pace in some
segments like housing, where there’s pent-up demand, credit
overall is growing at a “sound” pace, he said.  Tombini said that Brazilian exporters have taken advantage
of a recent weakening of the real to repatriate dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  