-- 
Mortgage Foreclosures Decline From Record in U.S. as Employment Improves

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-19T15:46:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/mortgage-foreclosures-decline-from-record-in-u-s-as-employment-improves.html
Mortgage foreclosures declined in the
first quarter from a record high as U.S. employment and personal
income rose, a sign the economic recovery may be helping to
limit defaults.  The share of home loans in foreclosure fell to 4.52 percent
from 4.64 percent in the prior three months, the  Mortgage
Bankers Association  said in a report today. New foreclosures
slid to 1.08 percent of loans from 1.27 percent.  American household budgets are improving as employment
increases, wages rise and consumers limit new debt. More than
500,000 workers got jobs during the first quarter while U.S.
personal income gained 2.1 percent, according to Labor
Department and Commerce Department data. A Federal Reserve gauge
tracking the amount of disposable income going to mortgage and
credit card bills shrank to a 12-year low at the end of 2010.  “As the economy has improved, as  job creation  has
improved, we are beginning to see that reflected in the
foreclosure numbers,”  Jay Brinkmann , chief economist of the
Washington-based mortgage bankers group, said in a telephone
interview. “Real estate markets reflect what’s going on in the
rest of the economy.”  Seriously Delinquent  The so-called seriously delinquent rate, or mortgages more
than three months late including foreclosures, dropped half a
percentage point to 8.1 percent, according to the report. It was
the biggest decline since the beginning of the real estate bust
in 2006. Legal actions to seize a home typically start at three
months. The rate is tracked by economists because it captures
foreclosures delayed by bank backlogs.  A reduction in defaults doesn’t mean the housing crisis is
coming to an end, said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at
Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York . About 6.4 million home
loans were either delinquent or in foreclosure in April,
according to Lender Processing Services Inc., a Jacksonville,
Florida-based mortgage-transaction and data firm.  “It’s going to take a crazy amount of time for the process
to play out, because of the sheer volume,” Shapiro said in an
interview. “We may see some of the numbers come down a bit, but
foreclosures are going to stay very high for a prolonged period
of time -- a year or two, or even more.”  Home Sales Drop  Sales of previously owned homes unexpectedly fell 0.8
percent to a 5.05 million annual pace in April, the National
Association of Realtors said in a report today. Economists had
expected a 5.2 million rate, based on the median of 75 estimates
in a Bloomberg survey.  The median U.S. sales price dropped 5 percent from a year
earlier to $163,700. About 37 percent of transactions were of
foreclosed properties or short sales, when a lender agrees to
accept less than the balance of the mortgage.  The share of mortgages overdue by one month or more rose in
the first quarter to 8.32 percent from 8.25 percent, according
to the MBA data. The increase was caused by a gain in 30-day
delinquencies, to 3.35 percent from 3.26 percent, Brinkmann
said.  Florida had the highest foreclosure rate in the first
quarter, at 14 percent, followed by  Nevada , at 9.3 percent,
according to the report.  New Jersey  was next, at 7.7 percent.  New York’s foreclosure rate was 5.3 percent,  Connecticut 
was 4.4 percent and the Massachusetts rate was 3.3 percent,
according to the report.  The foreclosure rate for prime loans, traditionally the
best-performing, declined to 3.52 percent from a record high of
3.67 percent in the prior quarter, according to the report.  Job Gains  Employment is the most important indicator for predicting
the level of future foreclosures, said Brinkmann. A seven-month
increase in jobs reported by the Labor Department signals
foreclosure rates may continue to decline, he said.  “Unless people have a paycheck, they can’t make a mortgage
payment,” Brinkmann said.  American employers have added 2 million jobs since payrolls
reached a more than 10-year low in February 2010, according to
the  Bureau of Economic Analysis . In April, there were 131
million workers, a two-year high.  The jobless rate probably will average 8.7 percent this
year and 8.1 percent in 2012, according to the median estimate
of 68 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Last year, the rate was
9.6 percent, the highest since 1983, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 