-- 
Judge Sets June 22 Hearing for Jamie McCourt’s Request for Dodgers Sale

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-05-19T20:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/los-angeles-dodgers-hearing-set-for-june-22-after-jamie-mccourt-request.html
The ex-wife of  Los Angeles  Dodgers
owner Frank McCourt asked the judge overseeing the couple’s
divorce to order a sale of the Major League Baseball team so
they can divide the proceeds.  California Superior Court Judge Scott M. Gordon today
scheduled a hearing for June 22 on Jamie McCourt’s request. The
judge said he will at the same hearing consider an earlier
request by Jamie McCourt for information about the Dodgers’
business, as well as a new request by Frank McCourt for a ruling
that his ex-wife has no say in a pending deal with News Corp.’s
Fox Entertainment unit for media rights.  Dennis Wasser , a lawyer for Jamie McCourt, said after
today’s hearing that Gordon agreed to help negotiate a
settlement before June 22.  “We want to bring this to a conclusion rapidly,” Wasser
told reporters outside the courthouse in downtown Los Angeles.
“Jamie felt she had sat on the sideline long enough.”  In her request, Jamie McCourt said that  Major League
Baseball  Commissioner Bud Selig’s decision to take over
management of the team showed that her ex-husband isn’t
operating the franchise “in the best interests of the club or
the marital estate.”  She said the commissioner has the right to seize and sell
the team, and wouldn’t be obligated to maximize the proceeds.  ‘Maximum Value’  “If MLB invokes its power to terminate the Dodgers
franchise and sell the team, it is almost certain that Jamie and
Frank will not receive the maximum value for these assets,”
Jamie McCourt said in her request. “Only a private sale
controlled by Jamie and Frank under the court’s supervision will
result in the highest possible sales price.”  Sorrell Trope, a lawyer for  Frank McCourt , said after the
hearing that his client is open to a negotiated settlement and
he had been ready to settle last year.  Frank McCourt said in response to his ex-wife’s request
that the Dodgers are his separate property. He said Jamie
McCourt engaged in “a letter-writing campaign” to Major League
Baseball in which she claims that an extension of the media-
rights deal with Fox required her consent.  “This had the devastating effect of causing Major League
Baseball to question who controls the Dodgers and contributed to
its decision to try to seize control of the team,” Frank
McCourt said. His ex-wife’s conduct “has hindered the approval
of the Fox transaction, which if approved will inject hundreds
of millions of dollars into the Dodgers.”  News Conference  McCourt said at an April 27 news conference in  New York 
that a proposed 17-year TV deal with Fox Sports was being
blocked by Selig. Baseball officials have responded that Selig
hasn’t vetoed the proposed deal, and that McCourt was told a
decision awaited completion of a probe of the team’s finances.  MLB took over management of the team on April 20 because of
what Selig called “my deep concerns regarding the finances and
operations of the Dodgers.” Former Texas Rangers President Tom
Schieffer was appointed on April 25 as MLB’s monitor of the
Dodgers.  The Los Angeles Times reported on May 3, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter, that the Dodgers
lacked the cash to meet their end of May payroll.  Frank McCourt last year lost a trial over the validity of a
postnuptial agreement with Jamie that he said made him the sole
owner of the Dodgers.  Meeting of Minds  Gordon decided in December that the 2004 agreement that
McCourt and his ex-wife made when they bought the Dodgers and
moved to  California  couldn’t be enforced. The judge said there
was no “meeting of the minds” between the two when they made
the agreement and that it isn’t valid under California law.
Frank McCourt is appealing the judge’s ruling.  Jamie McCourt claims that in the absence of an enforceable
postnuptial, the team is community property under California
law.  “As I’ve said all along, my goal is to resolve this
situation for my family in a way that also advances the best
interests of the Dodgers fans, players and franchise,” she said
today in an e-mailed statement. The request for a court order to
sell the team “will hopefully provide some momentum in the
right direction.”  Frank McCourt bought the Dodgers from Fox Entertainment
Group Inc. in 2004 for $421 million. The team is now worth about
$800 million, making it the third most valuable baseball team
after the  New York Yankees  and the  Boston Red Sox , according to
Forbes.  The case is McCourt v. McCourt, BD514309, California
Superior Court (Los Angeles County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 