-- 
Toshiba to Buy Meter Maker Landis+Gyr for $2.3 Billion in Smart Grid Boost

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-05-19T19:00:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/toshiba-reaches-agreement-to-purchase-landis-gyr-for-2-3-billion-in-cash.html
Toshiba Corp. (6502) ,  Japan ’s biggest maker
of nuclear reactors, agreed to buy Swiss electronic-metering
company Landis+Gyr AG for $2.3 billion in cash and assumed debt
to bolster its smart-grid operations.  The sale will probably be completed in the three months to
Sept. 30, pending regulatory approvals, the companies said in a
statement today. Hiroki Yamazaki, a Tokyo-based spokesman for
Toshiba, declined to specify the breakdown of the debt assumed.  The purchase, Toshiba’s biggest since its Westinghouse
Electric acquisition five years ago, would give the Japanese
company access to Landis+Gyr’s customers across 30 markets as
countries including the U.S. upgrade their electrical systems.
The global smart-grid market may surge sixfold to 5.8 trillion
yen ($71 billion) over the next decade, according to Toshiba.  Toshiba fell 3.4 percent to close at 431 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, compared with a 0.4 percent decline in the
benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average. The stock has lost 2.5
percent this year.  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  advised closely held
Landis+Gyr, while Deutsche Bank AG and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
advised the Swiss company’s shareholders, including Allianz
Capital Partners and Australian Capital Equity, according to the
statement. JPMorgan Chase & Co. is advising Toshiba.  Smart Meters  Founded in 1896, Zug, Switzerland-based Landis+Gyr makes
so-called smart meters that allow utilities to check energy use
remotely and can be connected to equipment that shows customers
when rates are highest. Its clients include E.ON AG,  Centrica
Plc (CNA) ’s British Gas unit and PG&E Corp.  Smart-grid systems monitor electricity usage to regulate it
more efficiently and to manage fluctuations in supply from
renewable sources such as wind and solar power. The networks
reduce reliance on a centralized energy source, better handling
spikes in demand and reducing the likelihood of power
disruptions.  In January, Landis+Gyr was chosen by State Grid Corp. of
 China  to help build the world’s largest smart grid, agreeing to
supply more than 10,000 commercial and industrial advanced
electricity meters in six Chinese provinces.  Toshiba, which makes power-generating equipment including
nuclear reactors, is expecting sales of 700 billion yen from
smart-grid and “smart communications” businesses, the company
said last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  