-- 
Takeda Joins Toshiba in $16 Billion Overseas Deals to Overcome Japan Slump

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-05-19T23:57:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/toshiba-joins-takeda-in-16-billion-cross-border-deals-as-economy-shrinks.html
Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. and  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  announced a combined $16 billion of cross-border takeovers,
as cash-rich Japanese companies seize on a rising currency to
overcome a slumping domestic economy.  Takeda agreed to buy closely held Nycomed for 9.6 billion
euros ($13.7 billion), while Toshiba said it will pay $2.3
billion for Swiss electronic-metering company Landis+Gyr AG. The
two deals took the value of overseas takeovers by Japanese
companies announced in May to $18.2 billion, putting it on track
to become the country’s biggest month for acquisitions abroad
since December 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Japanese companies have money and strong yen on their
side, so it’s a very sound decision to look abroad for growth,”
said Masahiko Ejiri, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Mizuho Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $41 billion. “The question
domestic companies considering overseas expansion should be
asking is: ‘Why not?’”  Cross-border acquisitions by Japanese companies almost
tripled this year from the same period of 2010, data compiled by
Bloomberg show, as the country’s strongest earthquake worsened
an economic slump. Companies are drawing on swelling cash piles
and a currency that’s risen 12 percent against the dollar in the
past year to buy rivals from  Switzerland  to  Indonesia .  The push for overseas takeovers got added impetus yesterday,
as the Cabinet Office announced Japan’s economy shrank an
annualized 3.7 percent in the first quarter, sending the nation
to its third recession in a decade.  ‘Very Aggressive’  Japanese companies “cannot survive by just staying in
 Japan ,” Yuichi Akai, chairman of Daiwa Capital Markets
Singapore, said in an interview last week. “For Japanese
investors, if they believe it’s a very good asset, they are very
aggressive.”  Takeda is buying Nycomed, which gets more than a third of
revenue from emerging markets, to reduce its reliance on sales
in Japan and the U.S.  Asia ’s largest pharmaceutical company
generated 86 percent of its 1.4 trillion yen ($17 billion) of
revenue in Japan and  North America  last fiscal year.  Toshiba, Japan’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors, is
tapping growing demand for more efficient electrical networks, a
market it expects will surge sixfold to 5.8 trillion yen over
the next decade. The company’s biggest purchase since its
Westinghouse Electric acquisition five years ago would give it
access to Landis+Gyr’s customers across 30 markets as countries
including the U.S. upgrade their electrical systems.  As Japan’s economic malaise persisted, companies hoarded
cash, bolstering their ability to strike deals. Excluding
financial companies, members of the Topix Index increased their
cash holdings 23 percent in the past three years to a combined
57 trillion yen, Bloomberg data show.  Shrinking Economy  Financial firms are also pursuing M&A. Mitsui Sumitomo
Insurance Co. said this month it agreed to pay 7 trillion rupiah
($818 million) for half of PT Sinar Mas Multiarta’s life
insurance unit in Indonesia.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., Japan’s second-
largest bank by market value, is in talks about buying a 25
percent stake in Malaysian lender  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC)  valued at 4.9
billion ringgit ($1.6 billion), two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Years of deflation and a shrinking population have dented
domestic demand even as overseas economies pick up from the
global recession sparked by the 2008 credit crisis. Japan’s
economy, now the smallest size since 1991 unadjusted for price
changes, may shrink further this quarter before rebounding later
in 2011 as reconstruction kicks in.  “Domestic Japan is constrained by deflation, biting
demographics and policy passivity,” Macquarie Group Ltd.
analysts led by Peter Eadon-Clarke wrote in a May 10 research
report. “We believe there are many Japanese companies embarking
on major M&A deals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in  Tokyo  at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  