-- 
Tottenham Wants Chelsea Striker Didier Drogba, Express Reports: Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-05-19T10:15:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/tottenham-wants-chelsea-striker-didier-drogba-express-reports-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Drogba for Spurs?  Tottenham wants to sign Chelsea striker  Didier Drogba  as
the north London club tries to boost its goalscoring for next
season,  the Daily Express said .  The 33-year-old may be sold by Chelsea, whose billionaire
owner, Roman Abramovich, plans to rebuild the team around 50
million-pound ($81 million) signing Fernando Torres, the
newspaper said.  Spurs coach Harry Redknapp wants Drogba, who scored 95
league goals in 201 games since arriving in west London in 2004,
but he’ll face competition from Marseille and Real Madrid, the
Express said.  United Defense  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  wants to sign
French under-21 defender Raphael Varane as a long-term
replacement for injury-prone  Rio Ferdinand , the Telegraph said.  The Lens player is valued at about 9 million pounds and is
also being tracked by Paris Saint-Germain and Real Madrid, the
newspaper said. The 18-year-old may be signed by United and
loaned to PSG to make sure he gets playing time, the Telegraph
said.  Wolves Warning  United must face a fine or other punishment if the team
doesn’t put out a full-strength team with players such as  Wayne
Rooney  and  Ryan Giggs  against Blackpool this weekend, Wolves
Chairman Steve Morgan said, according to the Telegraph.  Wolves, Blackburn, and Birmingham are just out of the
relegation zone, and are at most just a point above Blackpool
and Wigan, which occupy the drop zone. West Ham’s already been
relegated.  Morgan’s team was given a 25,000-pound suspended fine in
2010 after resting 10 first-team regulars in a 3-0 loss at Old
Trafford, which Wolves coach Mick McCarthy didn’t expect to win.
Nine players were brought back in the next match against fellow
strugglers Burnley, a game Wolves won.  The fining of Wolves set a precedent and United, which
already has clinched the league and plays in the Champions
League final later this month, should be held to the same
standard, Morgan said.  Arsenal’s Samba?  Arsenal is planning to pursue Blackburn defender
Christopher Samba, who is a cheaper option than Everton’s  Phil
Jagielka , Bolton’s  Gary Cahill  and Mamadou Sakho of PSG,  the
Daily Mail said.   The 27-year-old, who almost moved to the Emirates Stadium
in January, may be valued at 12 million pounds, the newspaper
said.  QPR Target  Queens Park Rangers, who will move to the Premier League
next season, are planning to add former Chelsea striker Eidur Gudjohnsen, whose contract with Fulham ends this summer,  the Sun
said.   The 32-year-old may be a cheaper option than Tottenham’s
 Robbie Keane , and is already settled in west  London , the
newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  