-- 
Toyota Says U.S. Prius Supply to Recover to 70% in June

-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T07:39:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/toyota-says-u-s-prius-supply-to-recover-to-about-70-in-june.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s
largest seller of hybrid cars, expects U.S. supply of its
top-selling Prius to recover to about 70 percent of normal
next month after output was disrupted by Japan’s record
earthquake.  Toyota’s U.S. unit should get at least 36,000 Prius cars
to sell in June, July and August, or about 12,000 a month,
 Bob Carter , group vice president for U.S. sales, said
yesterday. The figure could grow if production in Japan
rebounds at a faster pace, he said.  Supply in the next three months will be “in the 60
percent to 70 percent range,” Carter said at a briefing in
Half Moon Bay,  California . “It’s much improved.”  Increasing supply would help the Toyota City, Japan-
based carmaker take advantage of rising demand for the
gasoline-electric model amid higher fuel prices. Toyota said
early this year it might set a U.S. sales record for the
Prius, before the 9-magnitude earthquake and tsunami that
struck  Japan  on March 11 damaged parts factories and power
plants, disrupting auto production and leaving U.S. dealers
with little or no inventory.  U.S. gasoline cost an average of $3.926 a gallon on May
17, according to AAA’s Daily Fuel Gauge  website . That’s up 28
percent from Jan. 1.  Even so, this month’s U.S. Prius sales may decline from
a year ago because of the supply shortage, Carter said in an
interview, without elaborating.  “If I had twice as many Priuses, we’d be selling twice
as many,” he said.  ‘No Inventory’  The company will get cars to people who want them,
though it’s going to take a little while, Carter said.  “We have allocation right now, just no inventory,”
said Bob McGlone, general manager of Tansky Sawmill Toyota, a
dealership in Dublin,  Ohio . “I’m taking orders every day for
the car. It’s, ‘Ma’am, I’ll put you on the list, but it may
be a year before we can get your Prius.’”  Toyota shares fell 0.3 percent to 3,300 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in  Tokyo . The stock has declined 9.6 percent since March 10,
the day before the earthquake.  The carmaker’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance,
California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  