-- 
Pakistan May Extend Rate Pause as Bin Laden Fallout Intensifies

-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-19T19:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/pakistan-may-extend-rate-pause-as-bin-laden-fallout-intensifies.html
Pakistan is set to extend a six-month
pause in interest-rate increases as inflation eases and the
government prepares to tighten fiscal policy amid concern the
killing of  Osama bin Laden  will lead to a cut in U.S. aid.  The  State Bank  of Pakistan will leave the discount rate at
14 percent, among the highest in the world, according to all 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The decision is scheduled
for 4 p.m. in Karachi tomorrow, a week before the government is
due to deliver its budget.  The central bank raised rates in three consecutive meetings
from July to November, blaming excess state spending for pushing
inflation to more than 15 percent late last year. The government
may be forced to cut spending in its May 28 budget after the
discovery of al-Qaeda leader bin Laden in Pakistan led some U.S.
lawmakers to call for a reduction in aid.  “The central bank is likely to prefer to wait and see the
steps the government takes in the budget and will keep the rate
unchanged,” said Saad Khan, an economist at Arif Habib Ltd., a
brokerage in Karachi. “Another reason not to raise rates is the
easing in inflation last month.”  Pakistan’s consumer prices rose 13.04 percent in April from
a year earlier, after a 13.16 percent gain in March, a  Federal
Bureau of Statistics  report showed on May 3.  The South Asian nation has received $14.6 billion in
economic and military aid from the U.S. since 2005 to help
revive growth and fight Taliban militants along the border with
 Afghanistan .  Insurgent Groups  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who leads
the Foreign Relations Committee and was an architect of a 2009
bill committing $1.5 billion annually to Pakistan, said this
week many members of the  U.S. Congress  are questioning that aid
after bin Laden was found sheltering in the country. They say
President Asif Ali Zardari’s administration must crack down on
insurgent groups that target American forces in Afghanistan.  The government needs external aid as it aims for economic
growth of 4.2 percent next fiscal year and a reduction in the
 budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of gross domestic product, the
 Finance Ministry  said last month. The shortfall is expected to
reach 5.5 percent this year, compared with the official target
of 4 percent, it said April 27.  The  International Monetary Fund  told Pakistani economic
officials in a weeklong review of the economy that ended May 17
that the government needs to keep cutting the deficit to take
pressure off monetary policy and allow more credit to companies.  ‘Better Understanding’  “The budget announcement will help the central bank to
develop a better understanding of how to mix monetary with
fiscal policy,” said Khalid Iqbal Siddiqui, head of research at
Invest & Finance Securities Ltd. in Karachi.  The Washington-based IMF stopped disbursing money to
Pakistan in May last year after the country failed to meet
conditions attached to an $11.3 billion loan first issued in
2008. In December, the fund approved a nine-month extension of
the loan to give Pakistani authorities time to comply with some
elements of the agreement, including implementing an overhauled
sales tax.  President Zardari announced in March a 15 percent surcharge
on income tax to counter losses from the nation’s worst monsoon
flooding last year, and an increase in  import duties  to 2.5
percent from 1 percent. The government will also withdraw sales
tax exemptions on fertilizer, pesticides and tractors.  Pakistan ’s $162 billion economy, sapped by terrorism and
floods in 2010, is lagging behind emerging markets including
neighbors India and  China , which helped lead the global economic
rebound from the deepest postwar recession.  Fuel Prices  The government raised domestic fuel prices as much as 12
percent on May 1, after increasing them 13 percent on April 1,
to bring charges in line with international  oil prices ,
according to the Islamabad-based Oil & Gas Regulatory Authority.  “The fuel-subsidy reduction and the tax measure indicate
the budget will bring tight fiscal policy,” said Arif Habib’s
Khan.  The Pakistan rupee has fallen 0.2 percent to 85.74 against
the dollar since the current financial year started July 1. The
Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index has gained more than 22 percent
this financial year after advancing 36 percent in the previous
year ended June 30.  “Once the impact of the tight budget starts to show by the
second quarter of next fiscal year, we might see an easing in
monetary policy, which will be good for the private sector and
support growth,” said Khan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  