-- 
Farmers in India Set to Increase Oilseed Crop to Reduce Palm-Oil Imports

-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 
2011-05-19T13:11:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/palm-oil-imports-by-india-may-decline-as-farmers-boost-oilseed-production.html
India , the world’s biggest user of
cooking oil after China, will ensure higher oilseed prices for
farmers, helping them boost output of soybeans and peanuts and
potentially reducing imports of palm oil.  The government may offer a higher profit on monsoon-sown
oilseeds than on food grains, said Ashok Gulati, chairman of the
Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices, in an interview.
The commission is part of the  Agriculture Ministry .  India is the largest buyer of palm oil, which represents
more than 80 percent of its edible-oil imports. A decline in
imports may pressure futures in Malaysia that jumped 38 percent
in the past year on higher demand in everything from noodles to
fish sticks to candy bars.  “The real deficit at present is in oilseeds,” Gulati said.
“So the question is do we want to pay more to the farmers of
Indonesia and  Malaysia  or should we pay more to our own farmers?
I would say oilseeds are main priority this year.”  The cost of producing crops including rice, lentils, corn
and oilseeds has increased about 20 percent in the past year,
boosted by higher farm wages and rising energy and fertilizer
expenses, Gulati said.  “We try to assure them a 20 percent to 30 percent increase
over the cost of production,” said Gulati, whose recommendations
on crop prices to the government are usually accepted. Assured
prices are meant to protect farmers from distress sales in the
open market. If rates drop below those levels, the government
buys the crops.  Output Surge  Oilseed production may jump 21 percent to 30.25 million
metric tons in the year to June, the farm ministry said April 6.  The country may import a record 9.37 million tons of
vegetable oils in 2010-2011, including 7.6 million tons of  palm
oil , also an all-time high, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . India meets more than half its edible-oil demand
through imports, buying palm oil from Indonesia and Malaysia and
 soybean oil  from Brazil and  Argentina .  The South Asian nation, the second-biggest producer of rice
and wheat, has raised the minimum paddy purchase price 79
percent since 2004-2005, while the benchmark rate for soybeans
has increased 40 percent, according to the farm ministry. Lentil
prices more than doubled in the same period.  “The government should give equal preference to oilseeds
that it gave to cereals in the past,” B.V. Mehta, executive
director of  Solvent Extractors’ Association , said in a phone
interview from Mumbai. “India is short of oilseeds and farmers
should be encouraged to produce more.”  ‘Ample Stocks’  State reserves of rice and wheat were 44.2 million tons on
April 1, more than double the emergency stockpile requirement,
according to the Food Corp. of India.  “Currently the country has ample and comfortable grain
stocks,” Gulati said. “There is no compulsion or pressure on
us at this stage to attract more land under cereals.”  Palm oil futures in Malaysia advanced for a fourth day
today, gaining as much as 2.1 percent to 3,367 ringgit ($1,114)
a ton and ending at 3,360 ringgit on speculation that  China  and
India, the largest consumers, may start to replenish inventories.  Exports from Malaysia, the second-biggest producer, climbed
28 percent to 533,419 tons in the first 15 days of May from the
same period in April, independent surveyor Intertek said May 16.
Shipments rose 33 percent to 601,984 tons, rival Societe
Generale de Surveillance estimated.  Stockpiles of cooking oils in India, including those at
ports, totaled 1.27 million tons on May 1, down from 1.34
million tons on April 1, the Solvent Extractors’ Association
said May 13. Imports fell 15 percent from a year earlier to 2.69
million tons in the six months ended April 30, on increased
supplies from the domestic oilseed harvest, it said.  China’s palm oil imports fell 28 percent to 1.08 million
tons in the three months ended March 31, according to data from
the nation’s Customs Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  