-- 
Paraplegic Stands for First Time in Years With Medtronic Device

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-19T22:30:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/paraplegic-stands-for-first-time-in-years-with-medtronic-device.html
Rob Summers, a 25-year-old day trader
paralyzed from the chest down five years ago, now stands on his
own with the aid of a  Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  device originally designed
for a different application.  The device, sold by Minneapolis-based Medtronic to control
pain, delivers electrical stimulation to Summers’ lower spinal
cord that helps him move his toes, ankles, knees and hips, and
even take steps on a treadmill with the aid of a harness. The
Los Angeles man’s case, described in the U.K. medical journal
 The Lancet , may spell hope for about 12,000 U.S. patients who
incur spinal cord injuries yearly.  “It was my ultimate goal to recover from day one” after 
being hit by a car and injured, Summers said today in a telephone
interview. “I had it in my mind I was going to walk again.”  Summers, who had feeling in his legs but couldn’t move
them, first underwent 170 sessions of physical therapy in which
his legs and feet were manipulated to mimic the movement of
walking. The repetition retrained nerves in his spinal cord to
recognize the motion needed to walk.  The device, implanted in Summers’ spine, helps the nerves
understand the signals they get, said V. Reggie Edgerton, a
specialist in spinal control at the University of California  Los
Angeles , who treated Summers.  “The stimulation doesn’t induce movement,” Edgerton said
in a conference call with reporters. “It lets the spinal cord
hear the information from the legs.”  Surprising Response  It was a surprise when Summers was able to regain voluntary
control in his leg, Edgerton said.  “We have no idea what the mechanisms are,” he said. “I was
afraid to believe it when I first saw it. You can regain
voluntary control but only in the presence of the stimulation.”  Spinal cord injuries  damage the body’s nerve-relay system,
paralyzing a patient below the point of injury. The
breakthrough, which builds on 30 years of research, was
demonstrated in 1998 in cats that were able to stand and step
with the assistance of drugs, stimulation, and training,
according to the report.  It took Summers three years of  physical therapy  to become
eligible for the study, he said. Before the device was
implanted, he had no control over movement of his legs, even
after two years in training. Three days after resuming therapy
with the device implanted, he stood, Summers said.  “This is not a trivial process, and it’s not ready for
primetime in the patient community,” said Susan Howley, the
executive vice president for research at the  Christopher and
Dana Reeve Foundation , which provided funding for the study.
“It’s the first step on a journey.”  College Baseball Player  Summers was a pitcher for  Oregon State University  in 2006
when the team won the college baseball title. He was  struck by a
hit-and-run driver  while playing in the 2006 offseason for the
West Coast Collegiate Baseball League’s Aloha Knights, he said.
Spending his life as an athlete may have aided him in his
recovery, Howley said.  In addition, Summers’ injury was rated “B” on the
 American Spinal Injury Association’s classification system ,
which means he had feeling below the injury although he couldn’t
move. It’s not clear how well the method will work in patients
with more serious injuries, who have no sensation below the hurt
part of the spinal cord.  Medtronic’s device, called  RestoreADVANCED , is “dated
technology developed for pain management” though it could be
improved, wrote Gregore Courtine, Rubia van den Brand and Pavel
Musienko, authors of a related editorial, who are neurology
researchers at the University of Zurich. Still, today’s results
“should stimulate a surge of research,” they said.  Funding for the study came from the U.S. National
Institutes of Health and the Christopher and Dana Reeve
Foundation.  Medtronic ‘Intrigued’  Medtronic wasn’t involved in the study, though it supports
“exploration of new applications for spinal cord stimulation,”
the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We are intrigued by the results of the study and pleased
the patient is doing well,” Medtronic said.  About 12,000 new spinal cord injuries occur every year in
the U.S, and most people are hurt in car accidents, according to
the  National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center  in
Birmingham,  Alabama . Complications can include difficulty
breathing, urinating, and psychological side-effects like
depression and anxiety, according to the Atlanta-based Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention.  Summers also experienced improved bladder functioning,
sexual function, and internal temperature regulation. He’s also
feeling more confident, and is planning on making a movie to
tell his life story, he said.  New Confidence  “You don’t see a lot of paralyzed people in the world
because you’re ashamed or embarrassed,” Summers said. “I know
I was. And this has given me back my confidence.”  For now, he is focusing on recovery full-time, and working
as a day trader out of his apartment in Los Angeles because it
doesn’t interfere with his therapy. He likes to trade commodity
futures, he said.  “The farmers in the Midwest finally got their corn crops
up,” Summers said. “Looks like a good harvest this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 