-- 
Patriot Act to Be Extended to 2015 in Congressional Accord

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-19T23:02:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/patriot-act-to-be-extended-to-2015-in-congressional-accord-1-.html
Congressional leaders reached
agreement on extending the USA Patriot Act until June 1, 2015,
providing  law enforcement  continued powers to track suspected
terrorists that include the use of roving wiretaps.  The Senate will move the legislation on May 23 under a
timetable Senate Majority  Harry Reid  established late today, and
a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  said he plans to have
a House vote on it before the law expires May 27.  “The speaker supports this common-sense proposal because
this law has been crucial to detecting and disrupting terrorist
plots and protecting the American people,” said Boehner
spokesman  Michael Steel .  The law was passed after the Sept. 11 attacks, and some of
its surveillance powers have been controversial with lawmakers
and outside groups, including civil liberties activists. The
leaders who agreed to the four-year extension -- potentially
removing it as an issue in 2012 elections -- include Boehner, an
Ohio Republican, Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and Senate Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  Both chambers approved a three-month extension in February.
The measure agreed to by the leaders includes the wiretap power,
as well as the government’s ability to get access to suspected
terrorists’ business and other records and to monitor so-called
“lone wolf” suspects.  The roving-wiretap provision enables federal agents to
obtain a single warrant, from the secret court that supervises
counter-intelligence investigations, to monitor the phone calls
of suspected terrorists who use a series of mobile phones and
other communications devices.  The records provision allows agents, with approval from the
secret court, to obtain any “tangible item” that aids
investigations of a suspected plot by foreign-based terrorists.
It is known as the library records provision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim Rubin at 
 jimrubin@bloomberg.net  