-- 
Peso Gains on Speculation Remittances Rising, Fed Rate Signal

-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 
2011-05-19T08:35:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/peso-gains-on-speculation-remittances-rising-fed-rate-signal.html
The peso strengthened for a second
day on speculation Filipinos living overseas are sending more
money home to pay for school fees ahead of the start of classes
next month.  The currency rose to its highest level this week as the
 Federal Reserve  signaled U.S. interest rates will stay low,
increasing investor appetite for higher-yielding emerging-market
assets. The amount of cash transfers from Filipinos working
abroad was highest in the months of May and June in the first
half of last year, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The seasonal remittances are probably keeping the peso
closer to the 43 level,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market
strategist at Manila-based Banco de Oro Unibank Inc., the
nation’s largest lender.  The peso rose 0.1 percent to 43.177 per dollar as of the 4
p.m. local time close in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.
It touched 43.095 earlier, the strongest level since May 13.  The Philippine central bank seeks to clearly communicate
policy direction with the financial market, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an interview with ABS-CBN News Channel aired
yesterday. “It’s the assessment of the inflation outlook that
will guide the Monetary Board,” he said.  The Bureau of Customs, responsible for a fifth of
government revenue, may meet this month’s collection target of
around 24 billion pesos ($556 million), Deputy Commissioner
Gregorio Chavez told reporters today in  Manila .  The yield on the 6.25 percent January 2014 peso bond rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 5.00 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  