-- 
PGA Tour Asks Court to Bar Stanford Receiver’s Pursuit of Sponsorship Fees

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-19T18:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/pga-tour-asks-judge-to-block-stanford-receiver-s-pursuit-of-sponsor-fees.html
PGA Tour Inc. , claiming it’s an
“innocent third-party vendor,” asked a judge to dismiss a
lawsuit by indicted financier R. Allen Stanford’s receiver that
seeks the return of $12.9 million in golf sponsorship fees.  The association argued in papers filed yesterday in federal
court in  Dallas  that the suit should be dismissed because it
presents no evidence PGA Tour knew of or assisted Stanford’s
alleged scheme.  The lawsuit brought by Ralph Janvey, Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver, “does not (and cannot) allege that PGA Tour
was even aware of the Ponzi scheme prior to law enforcement
authorities discovering it,” PGA Tour’s lawyer, Randall Kucera,
wrote.  Janvey and the court-sanctioned Official Stanford Investors
Committee have sued more than 50 individuals and vendors who
provided services to Stanford’s companies before the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission seized his operations in
February 2009. Targets in these actions include the owners of
the  Miami Heat , Houston Rockets and  Memphis  Grizzlies
professional basketball teams, the Golf Channel and the
management company for pro golfer Vijay Singh.  Stanford Financial Group  was the name sponsor of what is
now the PGA Tour’s FedEx St. Jude Classic golf tournament in
Memphis,  Tennessee , from 2006 until 2009, when the financier’s
businesses were seized on suspicion of fraud.  ‘CD Proceeds’  Earlier this year, Janvey sued the sanctioning body of
men’s professional golf to recover what he claims were “CD
proceeds” taken from swindled investors. The PGA Tour contends
the payments were standard sponsorship fees that covered
television broadcasting expenses, donations to host charities
and players’ prizes.  “Indeed, under the plaintiffs’ expansive view of
fraudulent transfer claims, this court can soon expect to be
reading a motion to dismiss from the electric company that
provided the Stanford parties with electricity,” Kucera wrote.  Stanford, 60, who denies all wrongdoing, is in jail
awaiting a September trial on charges that he defrauded
investors of more than $7 billion through a  Ponzi scheme  built
on bogus certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank.  The case is Janvey v. PGA Tour Inc., 3:11-cv-226, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 