-- 
Philadelphia Area’s Manufacturing Expands at Slowest Pace in Seven Months

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:28:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/philadelphia-fed-manufacturing-index-declines-to-3-9-on-slowdown-in-growth.html
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region unexpectedly grew in May at the slowest pace in seven 
months, a sign the world’s largest economy may get less of a 
boost from the industry that led it out of the recession.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index fell to 3.9, the weakest reading since October, from 18.5
a month earlier. Readings greater than zero signal expansion in
the area covering eastern  Pennsylvania , southern  New Jersey  and
 Delaware . The median forecast of 59 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for an increase to 20.  Factories may be settling down to a more balanced pace of
production as the need to replenish stockpiles becomes less
pressing. At the same time, demand from overseas markets and
U.S. corporate investment in new equipment are prompting
companies like  Deere & Co. (DE)  and  Harsco Corp. (HSC)  to raise profit
forecasts, a sign assembly lines will be busy in coming months.  “We’re reaching the point where manufacturing moves to a
sustainable pace of growth as opposed to the early-cycle, strong
pace we had earlier,”  Russell Price , a senior economist at
Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said before the report.
“The sector is a beneficiary of the weaker dollar. Consumer and
business demand continues to improve.”  Other reports today showed sales of existing houses
unexpectedly dropped in April, the number of workers filing
applications for  unemployment insurance  fell last week, and
 consumer confidence  dropped to a nine month low.  Housing Slump  Purchases of previously owned homes dropped 0.8 percent to
a 5.05 million annual pace last month, the National Association
of Realtors said. A 5.2 million rate was the median projection
in a Bloomberg News survey and the April figure was less than
the most pessimistic forecast. The median sales price declined
from a year earlier and 37 percent of transactions were of
distressed dwellings.  Jobless claims declined by 29,000 to 409,000 in the week
ended May 14, the fewest in a month, Labor Department figures
showed. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a drop to 420,000.  The decrease makes it more likely that the April surge in
applications was caused by temporary events rather than
deterioration in the labor market.  Confidence Erodes  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index declined to minus 49.4
in the period to May 15, the worst reading since August, from
the prior week’s minus 46.9. A gauge of personal finances
plunged to the weakest level since October 2009, and a monthly
measure of economic expectations held at a seven-month low.  Stocks erased earlier gains after the reports. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index was little changed at 1,341.14 at 10:26 a.m.
in  New York .  Treasury securities  dropped, sending the yield on
the benchmark 10-year note up to 3.21 percent from 3.18 percent
late yesterday.  Estimates for the Philadelphia Fed Index of 59 economists
surveyed ranged from 10 to 28.  The bank’s new orders measure fell to 5.4 from 18.8 the
prior month. The shipments gauge dropped to 6.5 from 29.1.  The index of prices paid decreased to 48.3 from 57.1 the
prior month, while its gauge of prices received fell to 16.8
from 27.5.  The one positive from the report was an increase in hiring.
The employment index increased to 22.1 from 12.3 a month ago.  Outlook Wanes  The group’s index measuring the outlook for the next six
months fell to 16.6, the lowest since January 2009, from 33.6 in
April.  The Philadelphia Fed’s overall index isn’t composed of the
individual measures, one reason some economists consider it a
gauge of sentiment among manufacturers.  The report was more negative that a similar measure from
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  issued earlier this week.
The figures from the New York Fed showed factories expanded in
May at a slower pace than forecast, while measures of orders and
sales dropped less than the headline reading, and managers were
more upbeat about the future.  Economists monitor the New York and Philadelphia Fed
factory reports for clues about the Institute for Supply
Management national figures on manufacturing during the month.
The ISM data is due on June 1.  Some reports have begun to reflect the shortage of parts
after the March earthquake and tsunami in Japan, a weakness
economists say may be temporary. Industrial production
unexpectedly stalled in April as the Fed said supply disruptions
led to a plunge in automobile output.  Growing Exports  Manufacturing, which makes up about 12 percent of the
economy, is getting a boost from expanding world trade. Exports
jumped 4.6 percent in March, the biggest gain since 1994, as
U.S. sales to customers in South and Central America reached a
record, according to Commerce Department data.  Philadelphia-area businesses benefiting from overseas
demand include Harsco, a provider of railway maintenance and
engineered products, which this month announced a new order for
track maintenance in  Saudi Arabia  and a four-year extension of a
services contract in the U.K. The Camp Hill Pennsylvania-based
company in April increased its annual profit forecast.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, yesterday
raised its fiscal 2011 earnings forecast and said sales of large
farm machinery are rising, particularly in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Brazil . Still, the Moline, Illinois-based company expects
disruptions linked to  Japan ’s earthquake will trim revenue.  -- With assistance from Chris Middleton in  Washington . Editor:
 Carlos Torres   To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  