-- 
Poland Raised Rates in May to Preempt CPI, Wage Expectations

-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 
2011-05-19T14:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/poland-raised-rates-in-may-to-preempt-cpi-wage-expectations-1-.html
The Polish central bank’s  Monetary
Policy Council  raised borrowing costs in May to head off further
inflation and wage expectations after price growth accelerated
to the fastest pace in more than 2 1/2 years.  “The majority of council members said that bringing
forward interest rate hikes would be a more effective means of
limiting the risk of persistently higher inflation than raising
them at the same tempo as hitherto,” the bank said today in the
minutes of the Monetary Policy Council’s May 10-11 meeting.  The Narodowy Bank Polski unexpectedly raised the benchmark
seven-day  reference rate  by a quarter-point to 4.25 percent at
this month’s meeting, after the annual inflation rate increased
to 4.5 percent in April. East European countries, including
 Russia , are also increasing rates as central bankers combat
inflation caused by rising food and oil prices.  Policy makers who voted for higher rates “said the need to
preempt the increasing risk that the rising costs faced by
enterprises, as well as higher inflation expectations, will
transfer to prices and wages is a reason for faster increases,”
the central bank said today.  Wage growth is accelerating in the largest economy among
the European Union’s eastern members, with average corporate pay
rising 5.9 percent in April, compared with 4 percent the
previous month, the  Central Statistical Office  reported
yesterday. The government expects economic growth of 4 percent
this year after a 3.8 percent expansion in 2010.  Tightening ‘Justified’  “Council members were agreed that the current assessment
for economic growth and inflation justified further monetary
policy tightening,” the central bank wrote in today’s report.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile food and fuel
prices, increased to an annual 2 percent in March, while the
April figure will be 2.1 percent, according to the medium
forecast of 19 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. This compares
with 1.7 percent in February. The central bank is due to publish
core inflation figures at 2 p.m. tomorrow.  “I prefer to conduct monetary policy with a scalpel and
not with a pneumatic drill,” central bank Governor Marek Belka
said in an interview published today in the newspaper
 Rzeczpospolita . “We do not raise rates ‘just in case.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  