-- 
Prudential’s McGrath Stays Chairman After One-Fifth of Investors Protest

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-19T16:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/prudential-says-it-needs-to-improve-relations-with-investors-1-.html
Prudential Plc (PRU)  Chairman Harvey
McGrath said he has a mandate to continue in the role after more
than a fifth of investors opposed his re-election following the
British company’s failed bid for AIA Group Ltd last year.  About 78 percent of investors voted in favor of McGrath’s
re-election, compared with more than 99 percent in 2009,
according to figures released at Prudential’s annual general
meeting in London today. Other directors up for re-election
received more than 94 percent investor approval.  “Getting the support of 80 percent of the shareholders is
a pretty good mandate and we will take it forward on that
basis,” McGrath told reporters after the vote. “The chairman
becomes the lightening rod for shareholders’ issues at large and
I suppose that’s what’s reflected in the voting today.”  McGrath was under pressure to step down from investors
including Schroders Plc and  Jupiter Fund Management Plc (JUP) 
following the firm’s failed $35.5 billion bid for AIA,  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Asian business last June. While Chief
Executive Officer  Tidjane Thiam  also faced calls to step down,
99 percent of investors supported his re-election. The bid cost
the insurer 377 million pounds ($610 million) before tax in fees
to lawyers and advisers.  There is “more work to be done” to improve the insurer’s
relationship with investors following the bid for AIA, McGrath
told the meeting earlier.  “The transaction did place strain on the company’s
relationship with institutional investors,” McGrath said.
“We’re seeking to allay any remaining concerns over the
stewardship of the company,” he said.  Quality of Advice  Prudential last month hired law firm Clifford Chance LLP at
the request of the Financial Services Authority to investigate
the quality of advice Prudential received during its attempt to
buy AIA, according to two people briefed on the matter. Credit
Suisse AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  advised
Prudential on its bid.  McGrath and Thiam apologized last year for the cost of the
deal, which would have made Prudential the biggest international
insurer in  Asia . The bid foundered after Prudential’s investors
forced the company to cut its offer, which AIG rejected.  The insurer has since appointed  Howard Davies , former
director of the  London School of Economics , and Paul Manduca,
founding CEO of  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd ., as non-
executive directors. Manduca replaces James Ross, who is
retiring, as the firm’s senior independent director from today.  Prudential, Britain’s biggest insurer by market value, has
climbed almost a third in London trading since the deal
collapsed at the start of June. The insurer raised its dividend
by 20 percent in March after 2010 profit beat expectations,
helped by a 29 percent gain in earnings at its Asian operations.  The stock climbed 1.6 percent to 740 pence a share in
 London  trading, valuing the firm at about 18.9 billion pounds.  Prudential Plc has no relation to Newark, New Jersey-based
Prudential Financial Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  