-- 
Quebec Sees Northern Plan Public Spending at C$47 Billion

-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 
2011-05-19T20:37:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/quebec-says-governments-will-spend-c-47-billion-on-northern-mining-plan.html
Governments will shoulder more than
half of the expected C$80 billion ($83 billion) investment plan
that aims to develop  Quebec ’s northernmost area in the next 25
years, Premier Jean Charest said.  About C$47 billion of the planned spending will come from
Canadian governments, while companies will contribute C$33
billion, Charest told reporters today after a speech to the
Board of Trade of Metropolitan Montreal. He didn’t provide
details on specific projects.  Charest unveiled the so-called Plan Nord on May 9,
promising an “orderly development” to tap mining and energy
resources in an area twice the size of  France . The French-
speaking Canadian province also plans to build roads and
housing, develop 3,500 megawatts of power and lure mining
investments to the region, Charest said today. Quebec is
planning to spend C$2.1 billion on the plan in the next five
years.  “These are our best estimates over the life of the Plan
Nord,” Charest said. “Twenty-five years is a long time, so
these figures could change. But you will see investment
decisions being announced very soon.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, said
yesterday it will announce an “important investment” tomorrow
in its Mont-Wright mining site and Port-Cartier industrial
complex in northern Quebec.  Northern Development  Quebec is stepping up economic development of its north to
help raise living conditions in the region and to make better
use of natural resources such as timber, minerals and wind
power. An agency, Societe du Plan Nord, will be created to
coordinate the projects, Quebec said.  The plan covers the part of the province north of the 49th
parallel, which comprises almost 1.2 million square kilometers
(463,000 square miles). The region has almost 500,000 lakes and
thousands of rivers and accounts for more than three-quarters of
the province’s hydroelectric-generation capacity. Northern
Quebec has mineral resources including nickel, cobalt, zinc and
iron ore, the provincial government said last week.  Quebec also earmarked C$500 million to allow its
 Investissement Quebec  agency to acquire stakes in specific
projects, Charest said today. He didn’t elaborate.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 