-- 
Ralcorp Said to Approach KKR, General Mills on Post Sale

-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 
2011-05-19T21:27:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ralcorp-said-to-approach-kkr-general-mills-on-sale-of-post-cereals-unit.html
Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH) , the cereal
maker that snubbed offers from  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) , has explored
the sale of the Post cereals division in an attempt to fend off
its suitor, said people with knowledge of the matter.  Ralcorp has gone to  General Mills Inc. (GIS) , PepsiCo Inc.,
 Kellogg Co. (K)  and  B&G Foods Inc. (BGS)  in recent weeks, seeking almost
$2 billion for the unit, said the people, who declined to be
identified because the negotiations are private. The St. Louis-
based company also talked with buyout firms  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
KKR & Co. and Apollo Global Management LLC, the people said.  There has so far been little interest in Post, the people
said. The unit generated about one-fourth of Ralcorp’s $4
billion in 2010 sales with brands like Grape-Nuts and Alpha-
Bits. The goal of any sale would be to come up with cash that
Ralcorp can return to shareholders, the people said.  “With the proceeds from Post, Ralcorp could maybe issue a
special dividend,”  Jack Russo , an analyst at Edward Jones &
Co., said in an interview. “Maybe it would be enough to placate
Ralcorp’s shareholders.” The St. Louis-based analyst recommends
holding ConAgra shares and does not cover Ralcorp.  If no sale of Post occurs, Ralcorp is likely to rely on its
poison pill, staggered board and takeover laws in Missouri to
prevent an acquisition by ConAgra, said a person familiar with
the matter. Ralcorp could also accelerate further cost-cutting
efforts to persuade shareholders of improved profitability, the
person said.  Shares Fell  Ralcorp fell 50 cents to $90.01 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 38 percent
this year.  Jim Golden, a spokesman for Ralcorp, declined to comment,
as did representatives at General Mills, PepsiCo, Kellogg, B&G,
KKR, Blackstone and Apollo.  Ralcorp Chairman William Stiritz has already rebuffed two
overtures from ConAgra, which has signaled it may pursue a
hostile bid. Ralcorp’s base in  Missouri  may make an offer harder
for ConAgra, since takeover rules are more stringent there than
in other states. The terms of Ralcorp’s directors expire at
different times, making it impossible for a potential buyer to
replace the whole board in one go. The company also requires a
buyer to get approval from at least 85 percent of shareholders.  Stumbling Block  One stumbling block to a sale of the Post unit may be that
Ralcorp wants a transaction that would limit the tax
implications of any deal, said the people. When Ralcorp bought
Post from Kraft Foods Inc. in 2008, the division was spun off
from Kraft and merged into its buyer. Ralcorp inherited a low
tax basis for Post, meaning it would have a large tax liability
if it got too much cash for the business, the people said. That
tax basis is $500 million to $800 million, said a person
familiar with the specifics of the Kraft-Ralcorp sale.  Any sale to Kellogg or General Mills, the two biggest U.S.
cereal makers, could draw antitrust scrutiny, the people said.  Ralcorp has explored various options for Post since
ConAgra’s approach, including mostly stock deals with other food
companies and so-called sponsored spins to private equity, the
people said. In a sponsored spin, Ralcorp would spin out Post to
a buyout firm in return for a pre-arranged investment by the
private-equity fund. The company has also looked at selling Post
to a smaller food company in a Reverse Morris Trust, where
Ralcorp shareholders would own a majority of the smaller
company, the people said.  Second Snub  Ralcorp rejected a $4.9 billion takeover offer from ConAgra
on May 4, its second snub of the Omaha, Nebraska-based
foodmaker. ConAgra first contacted Ralcorp in late February and
Ralcorp began exploring a potential sale of Post soon after,
people familiar with the matter said. At the time Ralcorp shares
traded around $64.  Last year the Post division was Ralcorp’s worst-performing,
hurt by surging costs for ingredients like wheat and escalating
competition for budget-minded shoppers. Post’s profit margins
are the widest among Ralcorp’s businesses, according to the
company. Still profit declined 12 percent to $221 million last
year as Post discounted many of its cereals.  Ralcorp, also the biggest maker of store-brand foods in the
U.S., said this month that ConAgra’s latest bid, of $86 a share
in cash, wasn’t in the best interests of shareholders. The
company adopted a so-called poison pill strategy to prevent its
suitor, the maker of Chef Boyardee pasta and Healthy Choice
frozen meals, from buying shares without paying a premium.  Courting  ConAgra Chief Executive Officer Gary Rodkin is courting
Ralcorp to expand the company’s store-brand food business, which
operates out of Naperville,  Illinois , and has annual sales of
about $850 million. ConAgra is the biggest supplier of store-
brand cereal bars for retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc., a
product that Ralcorp also makes.  Heather Jones, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets, said in
a May 17 note that a ConAgra-Ralcorp deal “makes strategic
sense” because of generic product overlaps. ConAgra also has a
grain-milling business that could help supply Ralcorp’s grain-
based products, according to Eric Serotta, analyst at Wells
Fargo Securities.  ConAgra’s pursuit of Ralcorp comes as retailers of all
stripes are stocking more private-label products to appeal to
cash-strapped consumers.  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) , owner of the Sav-A-Lot
discount chain, said this month it wants to boost the percentage
of its sales from store brands by one percentage point in each
of the next three years.  ‘Shake Up’  Total sales of store-brand products increased 1.8 percent
to $88.5 billion in 2010, according to the Private Label
Manufacturers Association, a New York-based industry group.
Sales of branded goods fell 1.1 percent to $419.2 billion. From
2006 to 2010, store-brand items increased their share of units
sold in U.S. retailers from 20.2 percent to 21.8 percent.  “At least this deal, even if it does not work, shows that
ConAgra is willing to shake things up a little bit and grow the
company,” Russo, the Edward Jones analyst, said.  Centerview Partners LLP and Bank of America Corp. are
advising ConAgra, which plans to fund a purchase with cash and
debt. ConAgra also has hired proxy solicitor Innisfree,
signaling that it may pursue a hostile bid. Credit Suisse Group
AG is advising Ralcorp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  