-- 
Treasuries Snap Decline as Bullard Sees Fed’s Monetary Policy on Hold

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-19T05:58:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/treasuries-snap-decline-as-bullard-sees-fed-s-monetary-policy-on-hold.html
Treasuries snapped yesterday’s
biggest decline in six weeks after Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis President  James Bullard  said the central bank may keep
monetary policy unchanged until late this year.  U.S. government securities have returned 0.8 percent in May,
following a 1.2 percent gain in April, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data, as economic data fell short of
forecasts. The MSCI All Country World Index of stocks returned
0.8 percent this quarter. The government will sell $11 billion
of 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities today and
announce the sizes of three auctions set for next week.  “We’re getting people bailing out of risky assets,” said
Roger Bridges, who oversees the equivalent of $16 billion in
Sydney at Tyndall Investment Management Ltd., a unit of  Japan ’s
Nikko Asset Management Co. “The equity market is stalling a bit
and has fueled the rally in the Treasury market.”  Ten-year yields were little changed at 3.18 percent as of
6:58 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.125 percent note due in May 2021 traded at 99 17/32. The
yield rose six basis points yesterday, the most for a benchmark
note since April 6.  Declining inflation expectations have curbed the need to
begin withdrawing record stimulus.  “It does take some pressure off the Fed,” Bullard, who
doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said yesterday in an
interview in New York. “Market indicators of inflation have
come down. The data has been softer.”  Inflation Outlook  The difference between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of expectations for
consumer prices over the life of the debt, has narrowed to 2.38
percentage points from 2.67 percentage points on April 11, the
widest in three years.  Sales of existing homes took place at an annual rate of 5.2
million units in April, versus the average of 5.81 million over
the past decade, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
National Association of Realtors report today. U.S. unemployment
has been more than 8 percent since February 2009.  The spring home-selling season has been “disappointing,”
Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive at Toll Brothers Inc., the
largest U.S. luxury-home builder, said at a conference in  New
York  last week.  Goldman’s View  The Fed probably won’t raise borrowing costs until 2013,
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., one of the 20 primary dealers
authorized to trade directly with the central bank, said in a
report yesterday.  Treasuries fell yesterday after minutes of the central
bank’s April meeting showed officials discussed how to withdraw
record stimulus. Most policy makers favored a strategy of
raising  interest rates  before selling assets.  “There was consensus that selling the assets they have
been purchasing is not necessarily the first step in the process
of normalization, which gives the market some insight into how
it will exit the easing,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about
$3 billion of bonds at  Wells Fargo & Co . in  Milwaukee .  Almost all Federal Open Market Committee officials agreed
the “first step toward normalization” should be ceasing
reinvestment of principal payments on mortgage debt, according
to the minutes of the April 26-27 session.  Fed Buying  Central bank policy makers said in November they would buy
$600 billion of Treasuries by the end of June, a plan known as
quantitative easing, as part of their efforts to spur economic
growth. The Fed is scheduled to purchase $1.5 billion to $2.5
billion of Treasuries due from August 2021 to November 2027
today, according to its  website .  Returns that are less than the rate of inflation show how
the Fed’s manipulation of the financial system cheats investors,
said  Bill Gross , manager of the world’s biggest bond fund.  The BGOV Barometer shows the difference between the yields
on 10-year Treasuries and the rate of inflation, known as the
real yield, has become negative for the first time since the end
of 2008. The real yield was negative 2 basis points today.  “How far does it have to go before investors say this is
ridiculous?” Gross, who runs the $240.7 billion Total Return
Fund for  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., said during an interview May 16.  Ten-year TIPS yield 0.74 percent, compared with 0.92
percent at the previous offering of the securities on March 24.  Investors bid for 2.97 times the amount of debt offered at
that sale, versus the average of 2.79 for the past 10 auctions.
Indirect bidders, the investor class that includes foreign
central banks, bought 25.2 percent, versus the 10-sale average
of 41.7 percent.  TIPS have returned 2.26 percent this quarter, Bank of
America figures show.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year debt on May 24,
the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on May 26, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, which is based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey ,
and specializes in  government finance .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 