-- 
Renaissance Plans More Africa Investments as Assets Climb Above $1 Billion

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-05-20T12:36:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/renaissance-capital-plans-more-investments-in-africa-ceo-jennings-says.html
Renaissance Group, the Russian
emerging-markets group of investment companies, plans to make
more investments in  Africa  as the value of its assets in the
world’s poorest continent climbs to more than $1 billion,  Chief
Executive Officer Stephen Jennings said.  “We’ll invest several more billions in the coming years,”
he said in a telephone interview from Lagos,  Nigeria ’s
commercial capital, where Renaissance organized an Africa
investment conference. “The continent will deliver the fastest
growth in the world, faster than Asia has ever done.”  The  International Monetary Fund  estimates sub-Saharan
Africa’s economy will expand 5.5 percent this year and 5.9
percent in 2012, and that seven of the world’s 10 fastest-
growing economies in the next five years will be in the region.  By 2015, 221 million African consumers will advance from
destitution to basic-needs status, making from $1,000 to $5,000
a year, according to a McKinsey & Co. analysis of data from IHS
 Global Insight , a subsidiary of Englewood, Colorado-based data
provider IHS Inc.  “We responded to the facts at a time a lot of people were
blinded by history and prejudice,” Jennings said of his group’s
decision to start operations in Africa in 2006. “At the time we
came the fiscal situation had improved across the continent.”  Asian Investors  Renaissance is extending its investments in the continent
to several areas, including real-estate and infrastructure
projects, said Clifford Sacks, the chief executive officer for
Africa. These will include “urban renewal” projects similar to
Tatu City, a $5 billion residential complex near  Kenya ’s
capital, Nairobi, that was funded by the investment group and
houses 62,000 people.  “The reason we are doing this is that not many banks can
do it,” Sacks said. “It’s a long-term, capital-intensive
business.”  Renaissance has six operational offices and more than 120
people in Africa.  The quality of African assets is increasingly attracting
investors from  Asia , Sacks said. Renaissance recently advised an
Asian investor to put $750 million in a formerly state-owned
steel mill in  Zimbabwe .  Asian investors are “comfortable with the African risk,
which is becoming better understood,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net ;
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  