-- 
Resona Chief Pledges to Repay Taxpayer Money

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 
2011-05-20T02:11:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/resona-chief-pledges-to-repay-taxpayer-money.html
Resona Holdings Inc. (8308) , the Japanese
bank that was bailed out in 2003, plans to repay the remaining
872 billion yen ($10 billion) owed to taxpayers by boosting
lending profit and using cash reserves without selling shares.  “Our five-year repayment program is on the right track,”
Chairman Eiji Hosoya said in an interview on May 18. “We’ll
bring most of our focus to bear on smaller businesses in the
 Tokyo  and Osaka areas, while avoiding severe competition with
megabanks for loans to big enterprises.”  Japan’s fourth-biggest bank raised about 550 billion yen
from share sales in the last quarter to pay back public funds.
The lender will craft plans for repaying the rest as soon as
 Japan ’s Financial Services Agency sets out capital rules for
domestic banks in the wake of Basel III regulations announced
last year for banks operating worldwide, Hosoya, 66, said.  Hosoya, who joined Tokyo-based Resona in 2003 to lead the
bank’s recovery, expects the economy to rebound next quarter,
bolstered by rebuilding efforts after a record earthquake and
tsunami in March devastated coastal areas of northern Japan.  The economy shrank more than analysts estimated in the
first quarter as the disaster crimped production and consumer
spending, sending Japan into its third recession in a decade.
The catastrophe crippled Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi power plant, the worst nuclear accident since Chernobyl
in 1986.  Quake Rebuilding  “A brief contraction is unavoidable after such a massive
natural disaster, and we’re going to see a slow but sure
economic recovery that’s backed by reconstruction efforts,”
Hosoya said. “Some time next month, we’ll see more of these
lending needs from businesses related to post-quake
rebuilding.”  Resona fell 0.3 percent to 368 yen at the 11 a.m. trading
break in Tokyo. It’s the worst performer on Japan’s 83-stock
 Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK)  this year after plunging 24 percent,
outstripping a 13 percent drop in the benchmark. Hosoya’s bank
forecasts net income will decline 6.3 percent to 150 billion yen
in the year ending March 2012.  Cash and equivalent assets climbed 88 percent to 3 trillion
yen as of March 31 from a year earlier as the bank posted higher
profit, according to a May 13 statement. Net income climbed 21
percent to 160.1 billion yen as fees and commissions offset a
drop in net interest income.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  agreed in
November to boost the minimum capital requirements of global
banks over eight years. While all of Resona’s revenue comes from
Japan, it may face stricter capital rules as the FSA develops
domestic standards taking Basel norms into account.  Resona and its larger rivals are competing for a declining
pool of loans in Japan as the population shrinks and deflation
prompts people and businesses to hoard cash. Bank lending has
fallen for 17 months, the worst losing streak since 2005.  “One of Resona’s areas of expertise is its banking
services to smaller and mid-sized companies in Tokyo and
 Osaka ,” Hosoya said. “We’re not going to be swayed by tough
loan competition for larger businesses with megabanks in a local
race that’s pressing interest margins lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
 ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  