-- 
Richemont Profit Surges as Chinese Buy Watches

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-19T08:05:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/richemont-profit-surges-as-chinese-buy-more-cartier-watches-1-.html
Cie. Financiere Richemont SA fell in
Zurich trading after reporting full-year profit that missed
estimates as restructuring at a watch business crimped
profitability.  The shares fell as much as 5.1 percent. Net income in the
12 months through March rose 82 percent to 1.09 billion euros
($1.54 billion), the Geneva-based maker of Jaeger-LeCoultre
watches said today in a statement. That missed the 1.19 billion-
euro average estimate of 15 analysts.  The maker of Baume & Mercier timepieces reported an
operating margin at its specialist watchmaker unit of 21.4
percent for the full year, narrower than the 28.8 percent posted
for the first six months, as higher material costs and the
appreciation of the Swiss franc eroded earnings. The company was
also hit by the restructuring of Baume & Mercier’s product
offering, which hurt sales.  The full-year results “are clearly disappointing,” Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a telephone
interview. “The main issue looks to be the watch division where
margins halved from the first half to the second half.”  A rising franc cut into gross margin due to the company’s
watch manufacturing in  Switzerland . The franc was on average 12
percent higher against the euro and 5.2 percent higher against
the dollar in Richemont’s past fiscal year.  Richemont stock fell as much as 2.85 Swiss francs to 53.15
francs, giving the maker of Chloe handbags a market value of
30.6 billion francs ($34.7 billion). Today’s intraday decline
was the biggest since March 15. The stock has advanced 37
percent in the past year.  The company plans to extend its share buyback program by an
additional 5 million shares. The company also proposed a 29
percent increase in its dividend payout.  More Jobs  Revenue rose 33 percent to 6.89 billion euros, boosted by
higher sales in the Asia Pacific region, where an increase in
the number of millionaires is fuelling demand for high-end
goods. Wealthy Chinese consumers own 4.4 luxury watches on
average and  Cartier  is the most preferred jewelry brand,
according to the  Hurun Wealth Report . Richemont said today sales
in the Asia-Pacific region rose 48 percent.  The company is going to add 800 jobs in Switzerland to help
keep up with demand, which is currently outpacing supply,
according to the company.  More Demand  “We are actually facing more demand than we can cope
with,” Deputy Chief Executive Officer Richard Lepeu said on a
conference call with journalists. Richemont’s capital
expenditure will rise between 6 and 7 percent next year and
between 7 and 8 percent in the fiscal year 2013. About half of
the investments will be in manufacturing and infrastructure,
with the rest on expanding Richemont’s sales network.  Capital expenditure will be focused on production and
enlarging the company’s retail network, Lepeu said.  The company would rather invest in its existing brands than
make acquisitions as it’s better for shareholders, Rupert said.
It doesn’t plan to use equity to fund acquisitions.  Sales in April rose 32 percent, Richemont said today,
adding that “we hope that this positive trend will be confirmed
in the coming months.” While revenue from  Japan  fell 27 percent
in yen terms in March following the Japanese earthquake, sales
gained 3 percent in April in yen terms, according to the
company.  Even given the company’s profitability, revenue “looks
very good and the April figures were very strong, so I don’t
think consensus will come down,” Kepler’s Cox said.  Richemont sells products under 19 brands including Purdey,
the luxury hunting gun maker founded in 1814, and Alfred
Dunhill, the London-based maker of  leather goods , fashion and
lighters. Richemont and Polo Ralph Lauren Corp. created a joint
venture in 2007 to sell watches.  The Swiss company bought full control last year of online
fashion retailer Net-a-Porter.com, which sells Miu Miu sandals
and Robert Cavalli blue jean. Net-a-Porter this year started a
version for men called Mr. Porter.     Excluding Net-a-Porter
and currency swings, full-year sales rose 19 percent, Richemont
said. The unit is performing ahead of its business plan.  Richemont’s fashion and accessories business was profitable
during the fiscal year, according to presentation slides posted
on the company’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 