-- 
Ringgit Advances on Higher Rates Outlook, Growth; Bonds Decline

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-05-19T08:49:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ringgit-climbs-for-third-day-on-rate-outlook-singapore-growth.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit advanced for a
second day after inflation accelerated and  Singapore  raised its
2011 growth forecast, boosting the outlook for exports to the
nation’s biggest overseas market.  Consumer prices rose 3.2 percent in April, the most since
March 2009, the statistics department said after trading in
local markets ended yesterday.  Bank Negara Malaysia  eased more
currency rules yesterday to spur investments, saying the economy
remains on a steady growth path. Singapore, which buys about 13
percent of Malaysia’s exports, said a stronger currency won’t
derail growth.  Government bonds  declined.  “We still expect to see at least another rate hike as a
preemptive measure on inflation,” said Akira Banno, a treasury
adviser in  Kuala Lumpur  at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd.
“The market appreciates the currency measures and we should see
a sustained risk appetite this week.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.2 percent to 3.0288 per dollar
as of 4:15 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency, which touched a two-month low of 3.0655
on May 17, may rise to 3 this week, Banno said.  Bank Negara raised its overnight rate to 3 percent from
2.75 percent on May 5, while raising banks’ reserve ratio for a
second time this year. Policy makers next meet on July 7 to
review  interest rates .  The central bank said yesterday it will ease regulations in
the nation’s foreign-exchange market to help cut transaction
costs for direct investments and trade financing. The measures
will take effect on June 1.  Growth Estimate  Malaysia’s economy grew at an annual pace of 4.6 percent
last quarter versus 4.8 percent in the final quarter of 2010,
central bank data showed yesterday. Economists in a Bloomberg
News survey had forecast a 4.9 percent increase. Growth this
year will likely be at the top end of  Bank Negara ’s 5 percent to
6 percent estimate, Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said.  Singapore’s gross domestic product will increase 5 percent
to 7 percent this year, compared with an earlier forecast for 4
percent to 6 percent growth, the trade ministry said in a
statement today.  Benchmark 10-year bonds fell, pushing yields to the highest
in almost four weeks, on concern faster inflation will erode
returns. The yield on the 4.16 percent note due July 2021 jumped
12 basis points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 4.12 percent,
according to Bursa Malaysia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  