-- 
Risky Banks to Face Restrictions on Dividends, Bonuses, Hector Sants Says

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-19T14:52:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/risky-banks-to-face-restrictions-on-dividends-bonuses-hector-sants-says.html
The  Prudential Regulatory Authority 
plans to crack down on risky U.K. banks when it takes over
financial regulation next year, restricting the dividends and
bonuses of lenders at an earlier stage.  Lenders considered a risk to financial stability by the
PRA, which will take over bank supervision by the end of 2012,
will also face limits on leverage until their business
stabilizes, the Financial Services Authority said in a statement
today.  “This supervisory approach, to be effective, will need to
be based on judgment and a forward-looking assessment of risk,”
 Hector Sants , who will lead the PRA and is the current chief
executive officer of the FSA, said in a speech in London today.  Sants has been pledging more “intrusive” regulation since
shortly after the start of the global financial crisis. The
government is pushing through the biggest shakeup in financial
regulation since 1997, scrapping the  FSA  and handing its
supervisory powers to the new regulator within the  Bank of
England .  The plan would also create a Financial Policy Committee in
the central bank to oversee economic stability risks.  “In cases where a firm’s viability is under threat, the
PRA will take supervisory action at an early stage to reduce the
probability of disorderly failure,” Andrew Bailey, the deputy-
CEO of the PRA, said in a speech.  Bank Failure  The new regulator will allow banks to fail and “will not
view the failure of an institution in an orderly manner as
regulatory failure, but rather as a feature of a properly
functioning market,” the FSA said in its statement.  “Clearly the new supervisory process will look at all
aspects of each bank’s operations and we feel that the specific
reference to bonuses is sadly playing to politicians and the
press rather than providing a greater insight into the
supervision process,” a  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  analyst said in a note
to clients.  The U.K. government provided a 45 billion-pound ($73
billion) bailout to Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in 2008 after it
ran up the biggest loss in U.K. corporate history following its
acquisition of ABN Amro Holding NV.  Sants said in his speech that part of the reason for the
FSA’s failures was that “it never achieved the full support of
Parliament and the public.” The PRA must be able to repair
those relationships.  Judgmental  “The PRA is prepared to be judgmental and will challenge
managers on fundamental aspects of their business," said Ash
Saluja, a financial services lawyer at CMS Cameron McKenna LLP
in  London . ‘‘Unlike the FSA, the new regulator will be able to
reach a different view than managers and confront them on the
risk involved in their operations."  Sants said the agency needs public support.  ‘‘It is vital to its reputation and authority and
ultimately its ability to deliver on society’s expectation that
the PRA’s powers and statutory obligations are fully understood
and supported by society,’’ Sants said.  U.K. banks will also be required to publish more detailed
information about their activities to encourage greater market
discipline, Bailey said.  ‘‘We recognize that management, shareholders, creditors and
auditors all play an important role in managing prudential
risk,’’ Bailey said. ‘‘To encourage more market discipline, the
PRA will seek to publish some regulatory returns, though it will
not go so far as to disclose its own supervisory judgments about
firms.’’  U.K. Lenders  Bailey last month joined the FSA as the deputy head of its
Prudential Business Unit, as well as becoming director of the
organization’s division overseeing U.K. lenders.  He will become the deputy head of the PRA, which is
proposed to be responsible for regulating all deposit-taking
institutions, insurers and investment banks.  Sants said that the PRA would scrutinize firms’ bonus
payouts on an ‘‘individual and aggregate level” to make sure
that banks that make large payments keep enough capital in
reserve to whether crises.  The regulator would examine “total payouts to employees
and make sure they aren’t putting at risk the capital position
of the institution,” Sants said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  