-- 
Roubini Sees Europeans Securing France’s Lagarde as IMF Chief

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 
2011-05-19T15:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/roubini-sees-europeans-securing-france-s-lagarde-as-imf-chief.html
Europe  is likely to succeed in naming
France Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  the next International
Monetary Fund’s chief as developing nations are too divided to
back a single candidate, said  Nouriel Roubini .  “The Europeans are going to be united in wanting a
European and I think the European candidate is going to be
Christine Lagarde,” Roubini, the economist who predicted the
global financial crisis, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Last Word” with  Andrea Catherwood  today.  Lagarde, 55, would have to restore the Washington-based
fund’s image after the former French finance minister Dominique Strauss-Kahn was forced to quit after being charged with
attempted rape and other offenses in  New York . European
officials are defending the region’s 65-year hold over the top
job of the fund amid opposition from nations including  South
Africa  and Russia. Sergei Shvetsov, Russia’s central bank deputy
chairman said a developing country should be given the chance to
run the IMF to better reflect their role in global trade.  The U.S. doesn’t “want to give up on the leadership of the
 World Bank  and the emerging market economies are going to be too
fragmented, there are too many candidates and it’s very hard to
coalesce around one of them,” Roubini said in the interview
from Milan today. Lagarde “is definitely very smart,
understands things and is a political leader.”  The incoming IMF chief will have to address the possibility
of a restructuring of Greece’s debt, that could cause Ireland
and Portugal to reorganize their borrowing, Roubini said. Last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($157 billion) bailout of  Greece  and the
economic and financial reforms the country has undertaken to cut
spending and debt, won’t be sufficient to enable Greece to
refinance itself on the market.  “Lagarde recently has made the argument that debt
restructuring would be a bad idea,” said Roubini. “But she’s a
very pragmatic personality, and understands the political trade-
offs.”  For Roubini, Strauss-Kahn’s departure leaves a vacuum that
will weigh on the sovereign-debt debate.  The fact “that there’s not going to be strong leader for
some time negatively affects the entire process of figuring out
whether to bail in private creditors or whether to provide
additional official money to the euro-zone economies under
distress,” said Roubini.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  