-- 
Donald Trump School’s Business Practices Said to Be Probed by New York

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/trump-for-profit-school-s-business-practices-said-to-be-probed-by-new-york.html
New York State Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman ’s office subpoenaed a for-profit school founded by
 Donald J. Trump  in a probe of its business practices, a person
familiar with investigation said.  The Trump Entrepreneur Initiative is one of five schools
being examined by Schneiderman’s office, said the person, who
requested anonymity because the investigations haven’t yet been
made public.  For-profit colleges’ marketing practices, job-placement
claims and student loan default rates also are being studied by
the U.S. government and Illinois and Florida attorneys general.  “Like many in this business, we have received an inquiry
from the State of New York,” the Trump school said in a
statement. “We look forward to cooperating with the inquiry and
providing the information requested.”  The other for-profit school operators being studied by
Schneiderman are  Career Education Corp. (CECO)  of Schaumburg, Illinois;
Santa Ana, California-based  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) ;
 Bridgepoint Education Inc. (BPI)  of San Diego; and  Lincoln Educational
Services Corp. (LINC) , based in West Orange,  New Jersey , according to
the person.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment.  Enrollment Increase  For-profit college enrollment has increased 236 percent in
the past 10 years, U.S. Senator  Dick Durbin  of Illinois said at
a public hearing in Chicago on April 28. Ninety-seven percent of
enrollees in the colleges’ two-year programs borrow money for
tuition, compared with 14 percent at public community colleges,
he said.  “That might be a good investment if students were
receiving education and job training to take the next step up
the economic ladder. There are certainly many for-profit schools
that do just that,” the senator said. “But there are also for-
profit schools that are leaving students poorly trained and over
their heads in debt.”  One quarter of those attending for-profit schools will
default on those loans within the first three years of starting
repayment, Durbin said, compared with 11 percent in public
colleges and 8 percent in private, non-profit schools.  “We received an inquiry today and obviously we will
cooperate,” Kent Jenkins, a spokesman for Corinthian Colleges,
said yesterday.  The company, with more than 120 campuses in 26 states and
the Canadian province of Ontario, has one campus in  New York , he
said. It also has an on-line division.  Bridgepoint Subpoena  Bridgepoint disclosed its receipt of a subpoena from
Schneiderman’s office in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission filing yesterday, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We intend to evaluate and comply with the attorney
general’s request,” Bridgepoint said in the statement.  Mark Spencer, a spokesman for Career Education, declined to
comment. Lincoln Education Chief Financial Officer Cesar Ribeiro
also didn’t reply to a voice-mail message left at his office
after regular business hours yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  