-- 
Rusal Plans $11.3 Billion Refinancing, Allowing Dividends

-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-05-19T13:32:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/rusal-to-refinance-11-billion-of-debt-in-2011-allow-dividends.html
United Co. Rusal will refinance its
entire $11.3 billion of debt by as early as September, removing
curbs bankers imposed on the world’s largest aluminum producer
during  Russia ’s biggest corporate restructuring in 2009.  Limits on paying dividends will be among the restrictions
to be lifted, said Oleg Mukhamedshin, head of capital markets.  Rusal expects to agree the terms of a $4 billion five-year
syndicated loan with foreign lenders in May, he said by phone.
“We’re in negotiations with Russian lenders to refinance and
prolong loans for at least five years until 2016.”  Rusal, controlled by billionaire Oleg Deripaska, signed a
$17 billion accord in 2009 that prevented it paying dividends
until the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization fell to 3. The $4 billion will
refinance a loan Rusal used at that time to restructure debt
during the world financial crisis, Mukhamedshin said in Moscow.  “We’ll be able to remove restrictions on paying dividends
and making investments by the end of this year,” he said in an
interview yesterday. “Technically, there will be a possibility
of paying dividends for 2011 if shareholders decide to.”  Rusal follows Metalloinvest, owned by billionaire Alisher Usmanov, in using a syndicated loan to refinance debt. In April,
Metalloinvest said its units borrowed $3.1 billion at a rate of
2.25 percentage points above the London interbank offered rate
from banks led by  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Foreign Lenders  Rusal, which has a written policy of paying half of its net
income in dividends, may report 2011 profit of $3.08 billion, or
$1.8 billion excluding the contribution from the 25 percent it
owns in OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Marat Gabitov, an analyst in
Moscow at Unicredit, said by phone today. “Even if Rusal pays
half of this sum in dividends, it will be good,” Gabitov said.  Rusal held talks with foreign borrowers in April including
BNP Paribas,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
Natixis, Royal Bank of Scotland NV, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp.,  Societe Generale (GLE)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Euroweek reported.
BNP Paribas,  Credit Agricole , Commerzbank,  Natixis (KN) , Societe
Generale and ING weren’t immediately able to comment when
Bloomberg contacted their press services by phone and e-mail.
RBS sent an e-mailed reply declining to comment.  OAO Sberbank and VTB, the Russian state-run banks that are
Rusal’s biggest creditors, also declined to comment on Rusal’s
borrowings when Bloomberg News contacted their respective
spokesmen, Vladimir Gubarev and Vadim Sukhoverkhov.  Taishet Smelter  Rusal expects to gain by as early as June the approval from
the supervisory board of state-run VEB it needs for a loan to
resume building the Taishet aluminum smelter, Mukhamedshin said.  The company is open to other funding options, though yuan
debt is less attractive as the Chinese currency rises. It also
aims to spur trading in its shares, including through a possible
listing in  New York  or Toronto, Mukhamedshin said.  “Toronto looks more interesting as a major exchange for
mining companies and, since  Rio Tinto  took control of Alcan,
there are no pure aluminum producers traded there,” he said.
“Potentially we see big interest in our stocks from investors
from  Canada  but no decision has yet been made.”  Rusal held a dual initial public offering for a 10.6
percent stake in Hong Kong and Paris in early 2010.  “It doesn’t mean that we want to delist our shares from
Paris’s Euronext but we see very low liquidity,” Mukhamedshin
said, adding that trading in depositary receipts in Russia is
about 25 percent to 30 percent of volumes in  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 