-- 
SABMiller Studying Acquisitions and Organic Growth, CEO Says

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-19T12:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sabmiller-studying-acquisitions-and-organic-growth-ceo-says.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, is studying potential acquisitions
even as it focuses on organic growth from expanding its existing
business, according to its chief executive officer.  “We don’t need M&A to grow,” CEO Graham Mackay said today
on a conference call with reporters. “We obviously examine
attractive-looking opportunities all the time, as you know and
as you would expect, but we spend almost all of our time
worrying about how to continue to extract growth from our
established positions. We think that those are performing pretty
well.” He declined to comment on any specific acquisition
targets.  London-based SABMiller has attracted merger and acquisition
speculation in recent months as the company continues to pay
down debt. Analysts at Goldman Sachs including Mitch Collett
wrote in May that the company is the brewer “most likely” to
benefit from making acquisitions. The Sunday Times reported in
April that it may be interested in bidding for  Brazil ’s Primo
Schincariol Industria de Cervejas e Refrigerantes SA.  SABMiller, which has the lowest net debt to Ebitda ration
of the four top global brewers, was studying a bid for  Foster’s
Group Ltd. (FGL) ’s beer unit, a person familiar with the situation
said in September. Mackay declined today to comment on all
speculation.  Emerging Markets  SABMiller is among brewers looking to emerging markets to
drive growth as tough economic conditions hold back sales in
more traditional markets. The company said today that there are
“uncertainties in the outlook for inflation and the pace of
recovery in  Europe  and  North America ” even as demand continues
in most developing markets.  The company would assess assets in developed markets as
well as developing markets, Mackay said.  “We’re not just an emerging-market brewer, we’re a global
brewer, so we obviously keep on the radar screen anything that
we think might be attractive in our space,” he said.  Analysts at Credit Suisse suggested in a note dated Feb. 2
that SABMiller may also be the most suitable takeover target for
 Anheuser-Busch InBev NV. (ABI)  Mackay said he didn’t feel pressured by
the suggestion, adding that he couldn’t comment on AB InBev’s
intentions.  “If anyone wants to buy us at any time in the future, they
must pay a very high price,” he said. “That’s my job.”  SABMiller doesn’t have a target for how much it intends to
reduce the net debt-to-Ebitda ratio, according to Mackay. Chief
Financial Officer Malcolm Wyman said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today that the brewer isn’t considering a share
buyback currently, but would consider “all opportunities and
possibilities to make our balance sheet more efficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 