-- 
SABMiller Full-Year Profit Beats Estimates on Lower Cost of Beer Materials

-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 
2011-05-19T09:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sabmiller-full-year-profit-beats-estimates-on-lower-cost-of-beer-materials.html
SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-
largest brewer by volume, reported full-year profit that beat
analysts’ estimates, aided by lower raw-material costs in
 Europe , Latin America and South  Africa .  Earnings before interest, taxes and amortization rose
15 percent to $5.04 billion from $4.38 billion, the company said
today, beating the $4.87 billion median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue advanced 7.7 percent to
$19.4 billion, matching the average estimate of 12 analysts.  The maker of Grolsch and Peroni is among brewers that are
seeking to offset weak growth in the U.S. and Europe with sales
in emerging markets including  Asia  and Africa. The London-based
company got more than a third of revenue last year from  Latin
America , where it owns brands including Aguila, and said that
“selective price increases” and lower costs of goods to make
beer aided an 11 percent profit increase in the region.  “It was a good set of results,” said Jason Derise, an
analyst at UBS AG in London. “A bit of their outlook statement
reads cautiously, but in general, they tend to be cautious.”  SABMiller said in a statement that there are
“uncertainties in the outlook for inflation and the pace of
recovery in Europe and  North America .”  Share Performance  The company’s stock was unchanged at 2,266 pence as of
9:40 a.m. in London trading. SABMiller shares have advanced
11 percent in 12 months, compared with a 7.6 percent increase
in Brussels for  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest
brewer.  Beermakers are facing increasing costs this year for raw
materials used to make and distribute beer, including barley and
packaging. SABMiller doesn’t expect “significant rises” in raw
material costs this fiscal year and is “well over” 50 percent
hedged for 2011, Chief Financial Officer Malcolm Wyman said
today in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The company reiterated a forecast of a “low single-digit”
increase in commodity prices. SABMiller said earlier this month
that Wyman will retire in August, to be replaced by Jamie
Wilson.  Excluding acquisitions, disposals and currency shifts,
Ebita increased 12 percent in the year ended in March, SABMiller
said. Profitability was helped by “the strength of key
operating currencies against the  U.S. dollar ,” the company
said. Ebita margin, a measure of profitability, widened by 1.2
percentage points to 17.8 percent.  Africa, Asia  Profit grew 20 percent on an organic basis in Africa even
as the company spent more on expansion. Ebita rose 33 percent in
Asia as Indian and Chinese drinkers bought more beer. Lower raw-
material prices and “cost efficiencies” aided a 4 percent
increase in European earnings, even as volumes fell due to tough
economic conditions.  SABMiller, which got its start selling beer to gold
prospectors in  South Africa  in 1895, said it “stabilized” its
market share in the country, where the brewer competes with the
Brandhouse Ltd. joint venture of Heineken NV and  Diageo Plc. (DGE)  The
company has stepped up investment in the country and said
volumes grew 2 percent. Ebita rose 11 percent as lower costs for
brewing beer offset the expense of making soft drinks, it said.  The company declined to discuss whether it is studying
acquisition targets. “We can’t comment on speculation about
M&A,” Chief Executive Officer Graham Mackay said on a
conference call. “We don’t need M&A to grow” and the company
is focusing on developing current assets, Mackay said.  SABMiller was formed when South African Breweries Ltd.
bought Milwaukee-based Miller Brewing Co. in 2002.  The brewer increased its dividend 19 percent to 81 cents
for the full year, including a final dividend of 61.5 cents. CFO
Wyman said the company is not considering a share buyback now
and “would consider all opportunities and possibilities to make
our balance sheet more efficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 