-- 
Safaricom to Grow Voice Revenue Amid Price War, CEO Says

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 
2011-05-19T14:44:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/safaricom-to-grow-voice-revenue-amid-destabilizing-price-war-ceo-says.html
Safaricom Ltd. (SAFCOM) , East Africa’s biggest
mobile-phone operator, expects to grow voice revenue this year
by boosting market penetration and raising coverage amid a price
war that it said is “destabilizing” the industry.  The number of mobile-phone users in  Kenya  is estimated at
about 45 percent of the population, Chief Executive Officer Bob
Collymore said in an interview today in Nairobi, the capital. To
capture more customers, the company is spending 26 billion
shillings ($300.6 million) this year building infrastructure to
improve coverage in the nation of 38.6 million people.  “There is still more penetration to be got,” Collymore
said. “We also have a lot more rural coverage to go chase.”  Mobile-phone companies in the East African country have
slashed voice-call rates after the regulator in August halved
the tariffs operators charge each other to connect voice calls
across networks. That led to a 1.7 percent decline in
Safaricom’s voice revenue in the year through March, when the
company posted a 13 percent drop in full-year profit to 13.2
billion shillings, missing the median estimate of 13.9 billion
shillings of seven analysts polled by Bloomberg.  A  task force  appointed by Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  backed a further reduction in cross-network charges,
Nairobi-based Business Daily reported on May 17. The decision
means the fee that operators charge each other to connect calls
across networks will decline in July to 1.44 shillings per call
from 2.21 shillings, the newspaper said.  Moratorium  While Safaricom hasn’t seen the task force’s report, the
company has requested that a moratorium be placed on further
cuts in the so-called mobile termination rates, or MTRs,
Collymore said.  “We’ve always made our position clear on MTRs and that it
is that it has in large parts destabilized the industry,” he
said. “The unintended consequences have been demonstrated by
the announcement recently by one of our competitors on job
losses and cutbacks on marketing spend and reductions on dealer
commissions.”  Rival Telkom Kenya Ltd., a unit of  France Telecom SA (FTE) ,
earlier this month announced plans to cut 400 jobs and sell
billions of shillings of assets to boost cash reserves after
voice revenue declined, Business Daily reported on May 11.  Safaricom’s response to the price war was to increase
spending on marketing that contributed to a 25 percent increase
in operating expenses last year. Total costs as a percentage of
revenue grew to 62 percent from 56 percent a year earlier,
according to the company’s results.  Cost Cuts  In the current fiscal year, Safaricom will reduce expenses
as a percentage of sales by maintaining a freeze on hiring and
improving its “demand planning” to cut costs in areas such as
logistics and warehousing, Collymore added.  “Costs as a proportion of revenue will come down,” this
year, he said. “Ultimately we want those controllable costs to
be in line with European standards in the teens.”  For the financial year ending March 31, Safaricom planned
to have 3,083 employees. The company closed the year with 2,883,
Collymore said.  As part of plans to increase penetration, the company,
which increased the number of its base stations to 2,501 from
2,162 in the fiscal year to March 31, intends to boost its
towers by the same margin in the current fiscal year. Safaricom
has put up 400 third-generation mobile-phone towers in Nairobi
during the last four months, Collymore said.  Capital Expenditure  Safaricom is able to finance its capital expenditure from
operating free  cash flow , the company will return to the market
this year to borrow more funds as it seeks to increase its debt
to equity levels, known as gearing. Net debt as a ratio of
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization was
0.28 last year.  “We will be coming back to the market to increase our
leverage in the current fiscal year,” Collymore said. “I think
we need to get up to our peer level. There is massive headroom
for us.”  Safaricom’s shares closed trading unchanged at 3.9
shillings at 3 p.m. in Nairobi.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  