-- 
Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Probably Rose on Distressed Purchases

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-05-19T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-rose-on-distressed-purchases.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
probably rose for a second month in April as investors used cash
to buy distressed properties, a reminder real-estate is
struggling to gain traction almost two years into the recovery,
economists said before a report today.  Purchases of existing houses rose 2 percent to a 5.2
million annual pace, according to the median forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Other reports may show
fewer Americans applied for  unemployment benefits  last week and
manufacturing expanded in the Philadelphia region.  The increase in home demand is helping clear the market of
inventory even as renewed foreclosures will probably continue
weighing on prices. Manufacturing has so far carried the
economy, validating the  Federal Reserve ’s decision to maintain
record stimulus until the recovery becomes self-sustaining.  “We are seeing a pickup in all-cash transactions,” said
Yelena Shulyatyeva, a U.S. economist at BNP Paribas in  New York .
“All-cash bargaining power and investment activity is helping
absorb the supply. We will continue to see a gradual pickup in
demand.”  The National Association of Realtors will release the
figures at 10 a.m. in Washington. Estimates for home sales in
the Bloomberg survey ranged from 5.09 million to 5.40 million.
Purchases reached a record 7.08 million in 2005, and slumped to
a 13-year low of 4.91 million last year.  Homebuilders are seeing no gain in demand as they are
forced to compete with foreclosed properties. Builders began
work on 523,000 houses at an annual rate in April, down 11
percent from the prior month, the Commerce Department reported
this week. Housing starts dropped to a record low of 478,000 in
April 2009.  Reduced Optimism  Confidence among homebuilders remains at recession levels.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment
index held at 16 in May as a measure of sales expectations for
the next six months fell to an eight-month low, the group said
this week.  Douglas Yearley Jr., chief executive officer at Toll
Brothers Inc., the largest U.S. luxury-home builder, last week
said the spring home-selling season has been “disappointing”
and that “people are still scared.”  Demand for new houses will remain weak into 2012, said Bill Wheat, chief financial officer of D.R. Horton Inc., who last
week also projected a housing recovery will take time to
develop.  “We don’t see the economic drivers to change in 2011,”
said Wheat, whose  Fort Worth , Texas-based company is the second-
largest homebuilder by revenue. “We feel it could still be a
struggle in 2012.”  Fed Minutes  The Fed, in minutes of its April 26-27 policy meeting
released yesterday, said the housing market “remained very weak
as the large overhang of foreclosed and distressed properties
continued to restrain new construction.”  The manufacturing industries that make up 12 percent of the
economy continue to spearhead the recovery that began in June
2009, led by business spending on new equipment and demand from
emerging economies like  China ,  Brazil  and  Mexico . American
exports in March rose to the highest level on record.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory index
may have climbed to 20 this month from 18.5 in April, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed before the 10 a.m.
release.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  last month posted first-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates and raised its full-year
earnings forecast as sales surged in  developing countries . The
Peoria, Illinois-based maker of earthmoving equipment said its
outlook would have been higher had it not been for the March 11
earthquake in  Japan .  Factory Shares  Industrial companies have outperformed homebuilders this
year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Machinery Index has
gained 5.9 percent since Dec. 31, compared with a 1.3 percent
decline for the S&P Supercomposite Homebuilding Index.  Another report today may signal the economic recovery is
cooling. The Conference Board’s index of leading indicators rose
0.1 percent in April, compared with a 0.4 percent gain the prior
month, economists forecast the 10 a.m. report will show. The
projected increase in the gauge, which is designed to signal the
economy’s path over the next three to six months, would be the
smallest since August.  A jump in claims for unemployment insurance benefits last
month is one reason the leading index moderated. A Labor
Department report at 8:30 a.m. may show that increase through
April is now reversing.  The number of applications for jobless benefits fell to
420,000 last week from 434,000 the prior week, according to the
survey median. Claims would still exceed the 375,000 reached in
February, a two-year low.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  