-- 
Salesforce.com Sales and Profit Forecast Tops Estimates on Customer Gains

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-20T00:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/salesforce-com-forecast-tops-estimates-on-software-sales-gain-shares-jump.html
Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) , the largest
supplier of online customer-management software, forecast fiscal
second-quarter sales and profit that topped estimates as the
company adds clients amid an economic recovery. The shares
jumped in extended trading.  Excluding some costs, earnings will be 29 cents to 30 cents
a share, with sales of $526 million to $528 million, San
Francisco-based Salesforce said today in a statement. Analysts
in a Bloomberg survey had estimated profit of 27 cents and
revenue of $505.2 million for the period ending in July.  Salesforce, which sells cloud-computing applications that
companies rent over the Web rather than install on their own
computers, gained 5,400 customers in the quarter, for a total of
97,700. The company is benefiting from clients hiring more
sales, marketing and customer-service workers. It’s also getting
a boost from newer products, such as the Chatter social network
for businesses and the Service Cloud customer-support software.  “They’ve really accelerated the product line,” said Brad Whitt, an analyst with Gleacher & Co. in  Dallas . “You combine
that with the general growth in cloud computing and you have a
perfect environment.”  Salesforce rose as much as 8.2 percent to $146.99 in late
trading after the earnings report. The shares, up 66 percent in
the past year, had closed at $135.81 earlier in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading.  ‘Crazy’ Growth  Billings, an indicator of future sales, rose 44 percent
from a year earlier, compared with 36 percent in the fourth
quarter, said Whitt, who recommends buying the shares. That
allayed investors’ concerns that growth would slow, he said.  “The bears were looking for a deceleration and we got the
exact opposite,” Whitt said. “We got another quarter of
acceleration, which is crazy.”  Chief Executive Marc Benioff said customers are buying more
software as they put the recession in the rear-view mirror.  “What I see in the enterprise buying environment is the
recession is behind these customers,” he said during a
conference call with analysts today. “We see a big buying
environment out there.”  First-quarter net income fell to $530,000, or break-even on
a per-share basis, from $17.7 million, or 13 cents, a year
earlier. Higher spending on research, marketing and overhead
expenses ate into profit. Excluding some items, earnings were 28
cents a share, beating the average analyst projection by 1 cent.  Hiring, Acquisitions  “The company continues its pattern of spending on
growth,” Citigroup analyst Walter Pritchard said in a research
note today after the earnings report. That’s not surprising
given the hiring of sales staff and acquisitions, said San
Francisco-based Pritchard, who recommends holding Salesforce
shares.  Revenue rose 34 percent to $504.4 million. Analysts had
expected $482.3 million on average.  By using data centers to deliver software online,
Salesforce lets customers cut costs by not having to store the
programs locally.  On March 30, Salesforce agreed to buy Radian6 Technologies
Inc. for about $340 million, adding software that tracks what’s
being said about companies on the Web. Salesforce said the
acquisition will boost its fiscal 2012 revenue by about $45
million to $50 million and reduce earnings per share, excluding
some items, by about 11 cents.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  