-- 
SAP Chief Says Software Support Fees Needed to Fund Research

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-05-19T14:31:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sap-co-chief-mcdermott-says-software-support-fees-needed-to-fund-research.html
SAP AG (SAP)  co-Chief Executive Officer
Bill McDermott said the fees charged to customers for software
support and maintenance are fundamental to fund research and
development of new offerings.  In 2009, toward the end of now-Hewlett Packard Co. CEO  Leo Apotheker ’s reign at SAP, the company had quarreled with some
customers about maintenance prices. A company such as  Siemens
AG (SIE) ,  Europe ’s top engineering firm, may spend about 30 million
euros ($43 million) in annual maintenance fees, said  Helmuth
Guembel , managing director at consulting firm Strategy Partners.  “The systems that SAP sells and that customers use to run
their business are mission critical to the operation of their
company so the investment in support is well worth it,”
McDermott, 49, said in an interview in  Orlando ,  Florida . “The
only way software companies can stay in business is by refueling
the research and development machine and constantly
innovating.”  Amid a maturing market, software makers face weaker growth
in sales of enterprise software. Walldorf, Germany-based SAP,
the world’s largest maker of business management software, is
planning for about a quarter of its 2015 sales goal of 20
billion euros to come from new mobile handset products, services
and real-time analytics technology.  In January 2010, SAP caved in to customer pressure and
froze planned fee hikes. The company also started offering
clients a choice between a full range of tailor-made services
and a lower-priced standard package with basic software backup.  Disagreements  Karl Liebstueckel , the head of the German-speaking SAP user
association  DSAG , with more than 2,000 member companies
including Siemens, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG and Deutsche Bank
AG, said at the time that the group’s “core demands” had been
met after “intense disagreements and heated discussions
regarding the pricing of support.”  Guembel, formerly responsible for research firm Gartner
Inc.’s software market strategies in Europe, said the  software
industry  needs to become more sustainable, comparable to the
automotive industry, where an engine can handle many more
kilometers today than it could a couple of decades ago before it
needed an oil change.  “This is pure gravy for the software industry,” Guembel
said in a phone interview. “It isn’t in sync with the rest of
the economy.” He added that many software maintenance contracts
can’t be revised downwards even if a company’s number of users
drops.  Innovative Offerings  SAP had 6.1 billion euros in support revenue in  2010 ,
representing 49 percent of total sales. In the  first quarter, 
support made up 55 percent of the total as last year’s price-
increase freeze came to an end.  “We now have a choice between enterprise support, standard
support and a defined ramp-up curve, where there is an upper
limit for price increases, and in most countries the price
increases depends on the development of the economy,” said DSAG
Vice Chairman Andreas Oczko. “That means that when times are
bad there will be no price increase, or an increase below the
ramp-up curve.”  McDermott said customers benefit from the development of
innovative offerings which are financed by maintenance fees.  New services that allow clients to analyze information in
real time or access data through mobile phones and tablet
computers such as Apple Inc.’s iPad can make operations “far
more efficient” and lower costs of  information technology  as a
percentage of revenue, he said.  Improving Relationships  SAP is “on the right track in improving customer
relationships,” said DSAG’s Oczko. “But there’s still a long
way to go before we get back to the same situation as it was
before the maintenance conflict. It’s like in real life: when
something goes fundamentally wrong, it takes time to get back to
where you were before.”  McDermott and Jim Hagemann Snabe were named co-CEOs in
February 2010 and have been racing to get products out the door
more quickly.  Last year, they acquired database and mobile-device
software maker Sybase Inc. in a transaction valued at $5.8
billion, to boost SAP’s presence and revenue from mobile devices
such as laptops and tablet computers and help it fend off
competition from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in
Frankfurt at   rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  