-- 
Sbarro Pizza Chain Said to Be Negotiating Higher Bid Than Bankruptcy Plan

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-05-19T14:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sbarro-pizza-chain-seeks-sale-instead-of-bankruptcy.html
Sbarro Inc., a chain of fast-food
Italian restaurants, is negotiating an offer that’s more
valuable than the plan it entered bankruptcy with in April, a
person familiar with the matter said.  The offer that’s being negotiated is from a “strategic”
buyer, not a private equity or other financial firm, the person
said.  Sbarro ended its plan-support agreement and equity
commitment accord with MidOcean Partners and Ares Corporate
Opportunities Fund II LP to explore “other strategic
alternatives,” according to a statement today.  Sbarro, based in Melville,  New York , is talking to an
entity that may offer to buy the entire chain in a deal worth
more than the original proposal to give itself to creditors in
exchange for cutting its debt, said the person, who declined to
be identified because details about the talks are private. That
deal included a $30 million rights offering.  Sbarro, led by interim Chief Executive Officer Nicholas McGrane, filed for  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection  on April 4.
The company, which owns or franchises more than 1,000 fast-food
Italian restaurants, said the eateries will operate as usual.  Best Interests  “We believe it is in the best interest of all stakeholders
for the company to dedicate its resources to exploring all
available value maximizing alternatives,” McGrane said in a
statement. The company said the entity it is talking to is a
“qualified bidder.” Bankruptcy courts use that term to
distinguish between investors who have been cleared to
participate in an auction and those who have not.  Sbarro is still negotiating with its pre-petition creditors
to pursue a reorganization plan, according to the statement.  The Sbarro family founded the company as a single Italian
delicatessen more than half a century ago in  Brooklyn , New York,
according to its  website . The family opened its first mall
location about a decade later. MidOcean Partners bought Sbarro
in 2007.  The case is In re Sbarro,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  for the
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ), 11-11527.  To contact the reporters on this story: Steven Church in
Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  