-- 
HSBC Client Schiavo Accused of Failing to Report Offshore Account to U.S.

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 
2011-05-19T17:18:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/hsbc-client-schiavo-accused-of-failing-to-report-offshore-account-to-u-s-.html
A managing director at SCG Consulting
Group in  Boston  was charged with failing to report his offshore
account at  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to U.S. authorities.  Michael F. Schiavo, 53, failed to file a Report of Foreign
Bank and Financial Accounts form, or FBAR, disclosing an account
at HSBC Bank Bermuda, according to a criminal charge filed today
in federal court in Boston. Schiavo has agreed to plead guilty,
according to a Justice Department statement.  Schiavo, of Westford,  Massachusetts , is one of at least
three clients of HSBC, the largest European bank by assets,
charged in a U.S. crackdown on offshore  tax evasion . Prosecutors
also have charged at least two dozen clients of UBS AG,
 Switzerland ’s largest bank, four UBS bankers, and five bankers
at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest bank.  Schiavo’s firm serves the venture capital and private-
equity industries, according to the charge. Since July 2003, he
has been a director at Boston Private Bank and Trust Co., a
Boston-based commercial bank.  He has been a partner in business deals since the 1990s
with Peter Schober, who pleaded guilty Nov. 23 to failing to
file an FBAR over a  UBS AG (UBSN)  account that held at least $1
million. Schober is cooperating with prosecutors, court records
show.  Schiavo faces as many as five years in prison. James W.
Lawson, an attorney for Schiavo, didn’t immediately return a
call seeking comment.  Consultancy Agreement  Schober and Schiavo entered a partnership in 2004 to invest
in an American medical device company, according to the charge.
Headway Investment Partners LP, a London-based venture capital
firm, also was involved. In December 2005, Schober sought a
payout, and asked Headway to create a “consultancy agreement”
without Schiavo’s name, the charge said.  In September 2006, Headway wired $297,816 to Schober’s
undeclared account at UBS in Switzerland, and he directed UBS to
to transfer $99,273 to Schiavo’s undeclared account at HSBC Bank
Bermuda. From 2003 to 2008, Schiavo willfully failed to file
FBARs with the Treasury Department disclosing his Bermuda
account, according to the charge.  He also failed to report his account to the  Internal
Revenue Service , avoiding $40,624 in tax, the charge said. In
October 2009, amid publicity about taxpayers voluntarily
disclosing offshore accounts to the IRS, Schiavo made a so-
called silent disclosure in which he filed FBARs and amended tax
returns for 2003 to 2008, according to the charge. He did not
report income from the Headway transfer in 2006, it said.  Three weeks after his filing, an IRS agent tried to
interview Schiavo at his home, according to the charge. Two days
later, Schiavo filed a second amended tax return for 2006 in
which he reported the Headway income, according to the charge.  ‘Silent Disclosure’  “A silent disclosure does not constitute a voluntary
disclosure,” according to the charge. “On its website, the IRS
strongly encourages taxpayers to come forward under the
voluntary disclosure program and warns them that taxpayers who
instead make silent disclosures risk being criminally prosecuted
for all applicable years.”  Schiavo began work at SCG in February 2009, according to
the criminal charge, known as an information. From May 2000 to
August 2008, he was chief financial officer at Kodiak Venture
Partners, a  venture capital  firm based in Waltham,
Massachusetts.  The case is U.S. v. Schiavo, U.S. District Court, District
of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 