-- 
Schwarzenegger Puts ‘Terminator’ Return on Ice After Affair, Child Exposes

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 
2011-05-20T18:16:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/schwarzenegger-halts-movie-projects-after-disclosing-affair.html
Former California Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who returned to show business when his term
ended in January, put his film projects on hold after disclosing
that he fathered a child with his housekeeper.  “Governor Schwarzenegger is focusing on personal matters
and is not willing to commit to any production schedules or
timelines,” his lawyer, Patrick Knapp, said yesterday in an e-
mailed statement.  The decision sets back projects including “Cry Macho” and
the next “Terminator,” and indicates widening fallout over
Schwarzenegger’s separation from his wife, Maria Shriver. The
producer of “Cry Macho,” Albert Ruddy, said this week that the
picture was scheduled to start filming on Aug. 24.  “We have the perfect star for the role,” Ruddy, the
Oscar-winning producer of “The Godfather” and “Million Dollar
Baby,” said in a May 17 telephone interview. “We’re making
this film.”  Ruddy, reached yesterday, declined to comment.  “Cry Macho” is the story of a retired horse trainer who
becomes involved in an international kidnapping scheme,
according to the  Internet Movie Database , a Hollywood
information website.  Megan Ellison, daughter of  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Larry Ellison  and executive producer of last year’s
“True Grit,” purchased the rights to produce the fifth in the
“Terminator series,” according to Missy Davis, a spokeswoman
for  Creative Artists Agency .  Ticket Sales  No studio has signed on to release the film, according to
the Internet Movie Database. “Cry Macho” also lists no
distributor.  The 2009 release “Terminator Salvation,” which was
distributed by  Warner Bros . in the U.S. and by Sony Pictures in
most other countries, grossed $371 million in worldwide ticket
sales, according to researcher Box Office Mojo.  Schwarzenegger announced on  Facebook.com  April 4 that he
was working on a cartoon show called “The Governator” with
Spider-man creator Stan Lee. The producers of that program said
yesterday they were putting the project on hold, according to
Lisa Schwartz, a spokeswoman.  “In light of recent events, A Squared Entertainment, POW,
Stan Lee Comics and Archie Comics have halted production,”
according to the statement.  Schwarzenegger and Shriver announced on May 9 that they
were separating after 25 years of marriage. The  Los Angeles 
Times reported on May 17 that the 63-year-old former Mr.
Universe had fathered a child with his former housekeeper.  “After leaving the governor’s office I told my wife about
this event, which occurred over a decade ago,” Schwarzenegger
said in a statement this week. “I take full responsibility for
the hurt I have caused.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  