-- 
Sears Holdings Posts Loss of $170 Million on Lower Spending

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-05-19T10:09:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sears-holdings-posts-loss-of-170-million-on-lower-spending.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) , the department-
store chain majority-owned by  Edward Lampert , swung to a first-
quarter loss as shoppers cut back on spending.  The net loss was $170 million, or $1.58 a share,  Hoffman
Estates , Illinois-based Sears said today in a statement. That
compared with a $16 million profit a year earlier. The retailer
said May 2 the loss for the period ended April 30 would be in a
range of $1.35 to $1.81.  Sales declined 3 percent to $9.7 billion. Sears faces
increasing competition for customers from other department
stores and discount chains such as  Target Corp. (TGT)  Minneapolis-
based Target, which reported first-quarter results yesterday,
said shoppers are staying cautious on spending.  Sears rose 0.9 percent to $75.85 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market composite trading. The shares had risen 2.9 percent this
year before today, compared with a 6.6 percent increase in the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sears brought in Chief Executive Officer Lou D’Ambrosio in
February after a three-year search. D’Ambrosio is the former CEO
of telecommunications company Avaya Inc., and had worked as a
consultant to the Sears board on strategy and operations.  D’Ambrosio told shareholders at the company’s annual
meeting this month that Sears will expand services and
technology to boost sales and understand customers better. The
company also hired a new head of apparel, long a struggling
unit, earlier this year.  Sales at stores open at least a year fell 5.2 percent at
domestic Sears stores and 1.6 percent at the Kmart chain last
quarter, according to the company’s May 2 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  