-- 
SEC Credit-Rating Rules, 401(k) Bill, WTO’s Airbus Aid Ruling: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-05-19T12:39:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sec-credit-rating-rules-401-k-bill-ecb-greek-aid-compliance.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  resigned as
the 10th leader of the International Monetary Fund, kicking off
a contest for his successor as Europeans seek to retain the job
amid a lack of unity among emerging-market nations.  “I want to devote all my strength, all my time, and all my
energy to proving my innocence,” Strauss-Kahn said in a
statement released by the Washington-based IMF four days after
his arrest on sexual-assault charges. The fund said it will
comment “in the near future” on the succession. Strauss-Kahn,
62, had been leading polls for France’s 2012 presidential
election.  European officials, who have picked IMF heads for 65 years
under a deal that also gives the U.S. the lock on the top  World
Bank  post, moved to retain the privilege, with Sweden backing
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .  Russia  and  South
Africa  have called for an emerging-market candidate, while some
Asian policy makers suggested someone from their region.  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the fund, remains as
acting leader. Lipsky, a former chief economist at  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , is scheduled to retire in August.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
arrested May 14 on accusations of sexually assaulting a hotel
maid and has been held at  New York ’s Rikers Island jail complex
since he was ordered held in custody at his arraignment May 16.
He is asking a second judge to release him on bail.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Looks to Revamp Credit-Rating Practices Under Dodd-Frank  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will seek
comment on Dodd-Frank Act rules that would expand disclosure
requirements and grading methods for firms that provide ratings
for debt securities.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 yesterday in  Washington  to
release a proposal that would make it easier for investors to
assess the quality of credit ratings and identify potential
conflicts of interest.  Under the SEC proposal, each rating would have to include
background on how grades were determined, including information
on the likelihood of default and any third-party due-diligence
services used to examine asset-backed securities. Firms would be
required to send the SEC annual reports about the effectiveness
of their internal controls.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July, sought
to force changes in the credit-rating industry after lawmakers
faulted inflated grades from ratings firms for fueling the
housing bubble before the 2008 credit crisis.  The vote will release the measure a 60-day comment period
before commissioners can give final approval.  For video of the vote, click here.  Senate Bill Would Limit Use of 401(k)s as Rainy Day Funds  Workers will be limited in tapping their 401(k) retirement
plans for loans under legislation two senators introduced
yesterday that’s designed to counter the erosion of retirement
assets.  Senator Herb Kohl, a Wisconsin Democrat, said in a
statement yesterday that “A 401(k) savings account should not
be used as a piggy bank,” noting that many Americans are
treating retirement savings as “rainy day funds” because of
difficult economic times.  Kohl, 76, who’s chairman of the  Senate Special Committee on
Aging , introduced the “SEAL 401(k) Savings Act” with Senator
Mike Enzi, 67, a Wyoming Republican. The bill would reduce the
number of loans workers may take from a 401(k) and give
participants more time to repay after losing a job. It will
allow savers to contribute to their plan after taking a hardship
withdrawal and ban debit cards linked to the accounts, according
to the  legislation .  The Senate bill would limit the number of outstanding loans
for each participant to three. Employers would have the option
to reduce the number for their plans, said Joe Bonfiglio, a
spokesman for Kohl’s aging committee. There is no rule right now
limiting the number of loans workers may take and it varies by
company, Bonfiglio said.  For more, click here.  U.S. Seeks Airbus Rudder-Control Changes on UPS, FedEx Jets  U.S. operators of the Airbus SAS A300 and A310 jetliners
must modify rudder-control systems within four years to prevent
excessive movements of a tail-fin part that caused an American
Airlines crash in New York in 2001, the Federal Aviation
Administration said in a proposal.  The modification would need to be made on 215 planes in the
U.S. and cost $42.7 million if one option outlined in the
proposal is followed, according to a notice to be published in
the Federal Register today.  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  and  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  are the lone U.S. carriers still operating the planes,
said Clay McConnell, a spokesman for Toulouse, France-based
Airbus.  The sensitivity of the A300-600 jet’s rudder-control system
contributed to the American accident, the  National
Transportation Safety Board  found in 2004, killing 265 people,
making it the second deadliest U.S. aviation accident.  FSA’s Sants Says PRA to Monitor Bank Bonuses, Dividends, FT Says  U.K. Financial Services Authority Chief Executive Officer
 Hector Sants  said British banks’ future bonus and dividend
payments will depend on their satisfying regulators that the
payments won’t weaken capital reserves or erode sound risk
management, the Financial Times reported, citing an interview
with Sants, who is to become head of the planned Prudential
Regulatory Authority.  The assessments will be “part of the ongoing supervisory
process,” and “part of a dialogue, not a pass, fail process,”
Sants said, according to the FT.  Banks will also have to publish detailed information about
their assets that they so far only share with regulators, the FT
said, citing Sants.  Apple, Google, Smartphone Firms Risk EU Location-Data Curbs  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Google Inc. (GOOG) , and other smartphone technology
companies may face tougher European Union restrictions on the
way they handle user-location data after data privacy watchdogs
said the information is private.  Information that could betray the location of devices such
as Apple’s iPhones and phones running Google’s Android software
must be treated as personal, requiring companies to comply with
EU data protection law, EU privacy officials said in a
nonbinding opinion published yesterday.  Data protection officials in  Europe , including Germany and
France, are investigating recent reports on the collection and
storage of location data on Apple’s iPhones. Apple and Google
last week defended their handling of user location before U.S.
lawmakers.  The opinion, dated May 16, said information collected
through the combination of a Wi-Fi access point with a mobile
device’s location is also personal data, and subject to EU
privacy rules.  “We have seen the Working Party’s paper and we are
reviewing it closely,” Al Verney, a spokesman for Mountain
View, California-based Google, said by telephone. “It’s worth
remembering that Google can’t identify anyone using Wi-Fi header
information, nor would we want to,” Verney said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and an e-mail seeking comment. Apple has said in
statements it is “not tracking the location of your iPhone”
and “has no plans to ever do so.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  WTO Overturns Parts of Ruling Saying Airbus Got Illegal Aid  World Trade Organization  appellate judges upheld a ruling
that Airbus SAS got illegal subsidies from European Union
governments to build some aircraft while saying some aid was
less egregious than initially found.  The WTO’s Appellate Body backed parts of an EU appeal of
the June 30 report. While it said Airbus received billions of
dollars in illegal EU aid, it reversed a ruling that so-called
launch aid provided by Germany, Spain and the U.K. for Airbus’s
A380 superjumbo is a prohibited export subsidy -- considered to
be the most blatant form of aid.  Appeals judges in Geneva yesterday agreed with the initial
panel that loans by EU governments were unfair subsidies that
had an adverse effect on U.S. rival  Boeing Co. (BA)   Yesterday’s ruling is the latest in the almost seven-year
legal battle over aid to Airbus and Boeing, the world’s two
biggest commercial planemakers.  For more, click here.  ECB Rejects Greek Restructuring in Clash With Policy Makers  European Central Bank officials ruled out a Greek debt
restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a solution
to the sovereign financial crisis.  European Union finance ministers for the first time this
week floated the idea of extending  Greece ’s debt-repayment
schedule as the nation struggles to meet the terms of last
year’s 110 billion-euro ($156 billion) rescue. EU officials say
that Greece won’t be able to return to markets and sell 27
billion euros of bonds next year as scheduled under the bailout,
leaving them searching for alternatives to avoid a default.  Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker, who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said a “soft restructuring” is
possible for Greece after the government in Athens takes
additional steps to cut the budget, such as state-asset sales.
He spoke in an interview with Austria’s ORF, according to a
transcript posted on the state broadcaster’s website yesterday.  Soft restructuring, also referred to by EU officials as
“reprofiling,” is a “pure extension of maturities of existing
bonds without changing the principal and the  interest rates ,”
German Deputy Finance Minister Joerg Asmussen said in Brussels
yesterday. Such a setup would be designed to avert a chain
reaction of claims linked to credit-default swaps.  For more, click here.  EU Delays Vote on CO2 Trade, Sales From $7 Billion Reserve  The European Union said it will discuss proposed changes to
carbon-registry rules with member states today and will call a
vote on the issue in June, a month later than originally
planned.  The regulation designed by the  European Commission , the EU
executive in Brussels, will improve protection against abuse and
fraud in the region’s carbon market and facilitate the creation
and transfer to the European Investment Bank of permits from a
special post-2012 reserve valued at around 5 billion euros ($7
billion). The EIB will sell the permits and the proceeds will be
used to support low-emission technologies.  The EU Climate Change Committee, composed of
representatives from national governments, was previously
scheduled to vote today on the commission draft presented
earlier this month.  “Given the broad range of proposals” the commission has
decided to debate the amendments May 19 and call the vote on the
proposals in mid-June in the next Climate Change Committee
meeting,’’ Isaac Valero-Ladron, spokesman for the commission,
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The EU is tightening carbon trading rules and upgrading
infrastructure security after thieves stole in January more than
2 million allowances from three national registries that track
emissions transactions.  For more, click here.  Global Regulators Quiz Banks on Remuneration, Bonus Policies  Banks are to be quizzed by global regulators on how they
have put in place international guidelines on pay and bonuses,
following a review last year that showed implementation was
incomplete.  The  Financial Stability Board  plans to “assess the
different approaches to implementing” its principles by
surveying “a sample of major firms directly” as well as
national supervisors, the FSB said in a  statement  on its
website. The FSB also intends to examine the impact of country-
level measures to curb excessive pay.  Financial watchdogs and politicians across the world have
sought to overhaul bonus policies in the wake of the financial
crisis to prevent bankers from taking excessive risks in order
to reap short-term gains. Under European Union rules, as much as
60 percent of a bonus payout for risk-takers and senior managers
must be deferred for at least three years, and half of the
remaining amount must be in the form of shares.  The  European Banking Authority  will conduct a separate
review of how effectively pay guidelines have been implemented
by banks.  Courts  Goffer Trial Begins in New York on Insider-Trading Charges  Opening arguments began yesterday in the trial of Zvi
Goffer and two others on insider-trading charges in a probe
related to the prosecution of Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj
Rajaratnam.  Goffer, 34, is a former deputy of Rajaratnam’s who left
Galleon and later founded Incremental Capital LLC. His brother,
Emanuel Goffer, 32, and Michael Kimelman, 40, both ex-traders at
Incremental, are codefendants in a second round of cases growing
out of a nationwide insider-trading investigation.  Zvi Goffer was at the center of the insider-trading scheme,
one of three overlapping rings tied to Galleon, according to
prosecutors. The Goffer brothers and Kimelman are charged with
conspiracy and securities fraud.  Prosecutors allege that Zvi Goffer paid tens of thousands
of dollars to two Ropes & Gray LLP attorneys for information on
transactions the law firm was handling.  All three men denied wrongdoing.  Emanuel Goffer last week lost a bid for a two-week
postponement of the trial because of what he called
“inflammatory” publicity from Rajaratnam’s May 11 conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Blanchflower Doesn’t Rule Out Brown for Top IMF Post  David Blanchflower, a professor of economics at Dartmouth
College and former policy maker at the  Bank of England , talked
about the outlook for a restructuring of Greek debt and former
U.K. Prime Minister Gordon Brown as a potential replacement for
 International Monetary Fund  chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn.  European Central Bank officials yesterday ruled out a Greek
debt restructuring, clashing with political leaders over a
solution to the sovereign financial crisis. Blanchflower, a
Bloomberg contributing editor, spoke on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here and for more about Greece and the
ECB, see Compliance Action section, above.  U.K. Banks Will Be Made to Disclose More Data, BOE’s Bailey Says  U.K. banks will be made to publish more detailed
information about their activities to encourage greater market
discipline, according to the future deputy head of the British
regulator tasked with overseeing lenders.  “We recognize that management, shareholders, creditors and
auditors all play an important role in managing prudential
risk,” Andrew Bailey, who will become the deputy chief
executive of the Bank of England’s planned Prudential Regulation
Authority, said in prepared remarks for a speech in  London 
today. “To encourage more market discipline, the PRA will seek
to publish some regulatory returns, though it will not go so far
as to disclose its own supervisory judgments about firms.”  Governments around the world are seeking to provide
standard systems for coping with failing banks after the global
financial crisis. Bailey said the PRA will regulate with the aim
that all lenders it oversees can fail or be closed in an
“orderly manner with minimal impact” on the financial system.  Bailey last month joined the  Financial Services Authority 
as the deputy head of its Prudential Business Unit, as well as
becoming director of the organization’s division overseeing U.K.
lenders.  Comings and Goings  Obama Makes SEC Picks, Nominates Gallagher and Incumbent Aguilar  President Barack Obama announced plans to fill two seats on
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, selecting a former
SEC official, Daniel M. Gallagher, and nominating current
commissioner Luis A. Aguilar for a second term.  Gallagher, 38, a Republican, will replace outgoing
commissioner Kathleen L. Casey. Gallagher became a partner in
the Washington office of Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP
after leaving the agency last year.  Gallagher declined to comment on the announcement
yesterday.  Aguilar, 57, whose term expired in June, has continued
serving in the position as permitted by the agency’s rules.
Senator Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, endorsed his re-
nomination in September.  Both nominees will face a Senate confirmation process.
Aguilar is permitted to continue serving until the end of the
year while he awaits the process. Casey’s term is set to expire
next month.  Boucher Joins Sidley Austin in Government Strategies Group  Former U.S. Congressman Frederick “Rick” Boucher has
joined Sidley Austin LLP as a partner in the firm’s Government
Strategies Practice Group, according to a statement yesterday on
the firm’s website. He will be the practice group’s Coordinator,
said Peter Pochna, a Sidley Austin spokesman.  Boucher will be resident in Sidley Austin’s Washington
office.  Boucher, a Democrat who served 28 years representing
Virginia’s 9th Congressional District, finished out his last
term in January 2011, after losing his final race in November,
2010, Pochna said.  He was a member of the  House Energy and Commerce Committee ,
and the  Judiciary Committee , and served as chairman of
subcommittees relating to energy and telecommunications, where
he was a “bipartisan leader” on those issues, the firm said in
the statement.  Boucher will “help unify and expand Sidley Austin’s strong
public policy efforts under a single practice group,” according
to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  