-- 
Secret Donors Multiply in U.S. Election Spending

-- B y   J .   C r e w d s o n ,   A .   F i t z g e r a l d ,   J .   S a l a n t   a n d   C .   B a b c o c k
-- 
2011-05-19T10:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/secret-donors-multiply-in-u-s-with-finances-dwarfing-watergate.html
In the weeks before last November’s
election, television viewers in South Carolina were treated to
an animated caricature of Representative John Spratt high-
kicking in a chorus line with President  Barack Obama  and then-
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.  “It’s the worst economy in decades,” the ad intoned,
“and the folks in Washington are living it up, spending our tax
dollars like there’s no tomorrow.”  That ad and a second one mocking Spratt appeared at least
723 times between Sept. 25 and Election Day and were paid for by
a group called the  Commission on Hope, Growth and Opportunity, 
according to ad trackers at Campaign Media Analysis Group, a
unit of WPP Plc. Spratt, a 14-term Democrat, saw a seven-point
lead in an early poll vanish and lost the election.  Commission on Hope and four other Republican-leaning groups
spent at least $4.05 million attacking candidates in the run-up
to the November voting, according to Campaign Media estimates
and TV station records obtained by Bloomberg News. None of that
spending can be found searching the public database of the
 Federal Election Commission , and FEC spokeswoman Mary
Brandenberger said the commission has no record of it.  Federal law requires FEC disclosure of money spent on ads
mentioning or depicting a candidate in the 60 days before a
general election. The five groups whose spending wasn’t reported
either declined to comment, were unreachable, or said they
deemed the spending not reportable under the law.  Secret Donors  The five are among the outside, or non-party, organizations
that have played a growing role in federal elections. They
include trade groups, unions and nonprofits started by political
operatives that raise and spend money for advertising. The $305
million they reported spending in the 2010 elections was more
than four times the amount such entities paid out in the midterm
elections in 2006, according to the Washington-based  Center for
Responsive Politics , a research group that tracks FEC filings.  Growing more sharply is a subset that keeps secret the
identities of donors who bankroll the ads. These outside
organizations told the FEC they spent $137 million in the 2010
cycle -- 25 times the 2006 level. Commission on Hope represents
an even more secretive type that has taken itself off the radar
of federal regulators entirely -- by reporting neither spending
nor donors to the FEC.  Unlimited Donations  Non-party groups, including the secretive ones, are already
planning to raise more money in the 2012 elections. They
received a boost from the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in the
Citizens United case last year, which for the first time allowed
corporations and unions to spend unlimited amounts on ads
advocating the election or defeat of a candidate.  The organizations face little scrutiny from the FEC, where
split votes between Republican and Democratic commissioners have
stymied enforcement in case after case for almost three years.  As a result, voters may find themselves choosing the next
U.S. president knowing less about those trying to shape their
views of the candidates than they have since secret money helped
finance the Watergate burglary and re-elect President  Richard Nixon  in 1972. Watergate led to his resignation and ushered in
the law that created the FEC. Investigators found more than $20
million had been given behind the scenes to Nixon’s campaign.  In the 2010 election, donors tested how secret spending
through outside groups works, and used it on a small scale,
according to  Linda Fowler , a government professor at Dartmouth
College in Hanover,  New Hampshire . “There will be more next
time,” she said.  Watergate Looking ‘Quaint’  “The amounts of corporate money involved in Watergate will
look quaint by the standards of secret corporate funding that
will take place in 2012,” said Donald Simon, a director of
 Democracy 21  and former general counsel of Common Cause, both
pro-disclosure organizations.  Obama is considering an executive order that could undercut
these predictions and reduce secrecy. It would mandate
disclosure of political contributions over $5,000 a year by any
company vying for a federal contract, according to a draft
reviewed by Bloomberg News. The  U.S. Chamber of Commerce , which
collects secret money for political ads, has vowed to fight it.  Expenditure and broadcasting records collected by Bloomberg
provide a glimpse of secretive groups’ strategy, their
willingness to co-operate with one another on tactics and their
spending on close races in the final days of the 2010 campaign.
The records also show how the identities of those who funded
false advertising were shielded in some cases by tax laws.  Avoiding Disclosure Requirements  In the Citizens United decision, the high court expressed
confidence that interested voters could easily discern the
identities of those paying for campaign ads.  “With the advent of the Internet, prompt disclosure of
expenditures can provide shareholders and citizens with the
information needed to hold corporations and elected officials
accountable for their positions and supporters,” Justice
Anthony Kennedy wrote for the 5-4 majority.  The  Supreme Court  didn’t reckon with political operatives
who quickly turned toward tax-exempt non-profits to avoid
disclosure requirements.  Examples of how this money worked in 2010 were found
largely on the Republican side. That’s because conservative
outside groups, who overwhelmingly spend on behalf of
Republicans, outspent the liberal ones that favor Democrats by
about two to one -- and by seven to one when the money came from
secret donors, CRP data show.  The restocking of the outside-money war chests for the
presidential election has already begun.  Rove, Gillespie  American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy
Strategies -- created by Karl Rove and  Ed Gillespie , former
aides to President  George W. Bush  -- have set a $120 million
goal for 2012.  They gathered $71 million in 2010, according to spokesman
Jonathan Collegio. Crossroads GPS keeps its donor list secret.  “Democrats, having watched what happened last time, are .
. . not going to roll over,” said David Axelrod, former senior
adviser at the White House, who recently left to help plan
president Obama’s re-election campaign. He predicted “a lot”
of new groups appearing on his side of the political divide.  Democratic activists have already formed at least three
designed to raise money without disclosing donors. “Our goal is
to keep pace with Karl Rove” and other Republican-leaning
groups, “but we don’t think we’ll necessarily be able to match
them dollar for dollar,” said  Bill Burton , a former White House
deputy press secretary and co-founder of Priorities USA, one of
the new organizations.  Effectiveness Magnified  Outside groups were responsible for only about 8 percent of
the total spending in the 2010 elections, which handed the
Republicans a majority in the U.S. House of Representatives,
where they hold 240 of 435 seats.  Still, the spending surprised Democrats in the days just
prior to the election and helped the Republicans offset the
money-raising advantage many Democrats had.  And the effectiveness of the outside money was magnified by
coordination efforts by the Republican-leaning groups. Leaders
of about 15 met regularly to discuss where to concentrate their
firepower, said Collegio, the Crossroads spokesman.  “What happened exceeded our expectations, in terms of the
activity on the other side,” Axelrod said. “Hundreds of
millions of dollars came into the campaigns, much of it from
unnamed sources. And they were meaningful dollars. Where you
really felt it was in the House races. They came in late with a
large amount of money and ended up making a big difference.”  A Desk Downtown  Former Democratic Representative Dan Maffei said he would
have been re-elected “if it were not for the outside
advertising which came in exclusively for my opponent late in
the campaign.” Maffei lost to Republican Ann Marie Buerkle in
 New York ’s 25th Congressional District, which includes Syracuse.  Nationally, Maffei said, outside money made the difference
between the Republicans picking up “30 or 40” seats in the
House and the 63 they won in the end.  Commission on Hope paid at least $2.10 million for ads
against Spratt, Maffei and nine other Democrats in seven states
in the 60 days prior to voting, according to estimates by
Campaign Media. Ten of the 11 Democrats lost.  Formed in March 2010, Commission on Hope lists only one
person on its website -- William B. Canfield, a former
Republican Senate aide who is the group’s general counsel. Its
address is a downtown  Washington  law office where he has a desk.
Canfield declined to comment.  Coordinated Effort  Eleven other groups with secret donors bought ads taking on
one or more of the 11 Democrats that Commission on Hope
targeted, spending $5.87 million, according to CRP data and
Campaign Media estimates.  One, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, spent $1.13 million in
five of the 10 races, according to CRP. Another, the  60 Plus
Association , which has favored steps toward privatizing Social
Security, spent $1.09 million in six of the races.  Eight of the groups joined Commission on Hope in attacking
Democrat John Salazar, who was defeated in  Colorado . In the
 Florida  panhandle, vanquished Democrat Allen Boyd was hit by ads
bought by Commission on Hope and at least seven others. Spratt
lost to state Representative Mick Mulvaney, the first Republican
congressman from the district in 127 years.  Two of the organizations that didn’t report to the FEC, the
California-based Taxpayer Network and  Water for All , bought ads
against Democratic Senator Barbara Boxer of  California . Campaign
Media numbers show Water for All spent at least $102,000 for ads
in Spanish that ran in central California featuring photos of
Boxer and Fresno Congressman Jim Costa framed by red circles
with lines drawn across them. Boxer and Costa were re-elected.  Exemption Claim  Water for All didn’t report its campaign expenditures to
the FEC because the ads weren’t political in nature and “we
don’t need to file,” said Brian C. Leighton, the group’s
attorney. “The rules do not require us to file.”  Protecting America’s Future, a Wisconsin group, bought ads
attacking Democrat Julie Lassa, according to TV-station logs
from Wausau. Lassa was defeated in her bid to win a seat in the
district that includes Wausau. James R. Troupis, a Middleton,
Wisconsin, attorney who incorporated the group, said he didn’t
know why the organization hadn’t reported its expenditures.  The National Federation of Independent Business, a
Nashville-based trade group, acknowledged it didn’t report about
$1.5 million of the money it spent during the 60-day window. It
said that portion was exempt from the FEC’s reporting
requirements.  Obama’s Old Seat  In the Illinois race for Obama’s old Senate seat, combined
candidate and party spending was $19.8 million for Republican
Mark Kirk and $18.3 million for Democrat Alexi Giannoulias,
according to CRP. Non-party players came up with $7.1 million
favoring Kirk and $2.2 million for Giannoulias -- expanding the
money advantage for the Republican, who won.  The largest expenditure on behalf of Giannoulias was
$692,128 from a political action committee funded mostly by
labor unions, including $500,000 from the  Service Employees
International Union .  More than half of the outside surge benefiting Kirk came
from the U.S. Chamber and Rove’s Crossroads GPS. Five months
after the election, the names of the unreported donors remain a
mystery to the public.  “If you find out, let me know,” said Colin Van Osten,
campaign manager for Ann Kuster, who lost her bid for a New
Hampshire congressional seat by a single percentage point after
an ad assault from American Action Network and 10 other non-
party groups, CRP data show.  ‘Fool’s Gold’  Commission on Hope paid $302,300 to three Baltimore TV
stations for ads in which Democratic Representative Frank Kratovil took John Spratt’s place in the “DC Follies” chorus
line, according to the stations. In Manchester, New Hampshire,
Portland, Maine, and  Boston , Campaign Media data show the group
spent at least $388,522 for television ads opposing two-term
incumbent Democrat Carol Shea-Porter before her defeat.  In all, the group paid at least $741,928 to show the DC
Follies in  South Carolina , Maryland,  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio  and
Florida, according to Campaign Media. The ads were identical
except for the candidate’s name and photo, and the southern
inflections in the announcer’s voice below the Mason-Dixon line.  In nine cities, the group spent $586,801 on an ad inviting
viewers to call Democratic representatives to order a
collectible coin “clad in 14-karat fool’s gold” commemorating
their votes for the “Pelosi agenda.”  Maffei, the New York Democrat, led Buerkle by 12 points two
weeks before the election. He spent more than $3 million on his
campaign, compared to less than $800,000 by Buerkle.  ‘Collectible Coin’  Outsiders including American Crossroads added more funds to
the race and cut the Democrat’s advantage. They reported
spending more than $600,000 for ads hitting Maffei or boosting
Buerkle, according to CRP.  Commission on Hope chipped in $154,000 -- unreported to the
FEC -- to plaster Maffei’s district with the “collectible
coin” and another anti-Maffei ad, which ran for 10 days in
Rochester, according to Campaign Media.  Maffei’s lead evaporated, and Buerkle defeated him after a
recount by 648 votes. The outside money spent against him late
in the campaign proved more influential than his own funds,
Maffei said in an interview. Buerkle attributed her victory to a
“grassroots campaign” based on volunteers who had never been
politically active before, said Liza Lowery, her spokeswoman.  ‘Less Accountable’  “What has happened in American politics with the advent of
campaign finance (changes) is the parties have taken a back seat
to the interest groups,” said Tom Davis, who served as chairman
of the National Republican Congressional Committee from 1999 to
2002. “So the people who are running these other things have as
much to say as the party operatives. They’ve got spending, and
they’re less accountable.”  Commission on Hope and others have non-profit, tax-exempt
status as “social welfare” organizations under section
501(c)(4) of the tax code, and must report the names of donors
to the  Internal Revenue Service , which doesn’t make them public.
To maintain their tax-exempt status, they must limit their
politicking to less than half their activities.  In its application to the IRS for recognition as a tax-
exempt organization, Commission on Hope went farther, checking
the “no” box on the form when asked if it planned to “spend
any money attempting to influence the selection, nomination,
election, or appointment of any person to any federal, state or
local public office.”  The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002, known as McCain
-Feingold after its two sponsors, prohibited the use of
corporate and union money for ads mentioning candidates running
within 60 days before a general election.  ‘Massive Influence-Seeking’  Five years later, a group called Wisconsin Right to Life,
which had been urging voters to demand that senators oppose the
filibustering of judicial nominees, argued that even though
their ads named lawmakers running for re-election, they were not
political since they didn’t ask voters to vote for or against a
particular senator.  The Supreme Court accepted the argument, ruling 5-4 that
unless an ad was explicit in giving voting guidance on a
candidate, it was not an illegal use of corporate money and not
prohibited by McCain-Feingold.  Then, in the Citizens United case last year, the Court went
farther, ruling that corporations and labor unions could spend
with no limit on ads that did explicitly call for a candidate’s
defeat or re-election.  The decision has the potential to unleash “massive
influence-seeking corporate expenditures and opened the door to
enormous damage to our democracy,” said Fred Wertheimer, the
president of Democracy 21.  Advantages of Anonymity  The biggest of the groups that kept its donors secret in
2010 was the U.S. Chamber, which reported $32.9 million in
campaign spending to the FEC. After the chamber, the largest
were American Action; Crossroads GPS; and the  American Future
Fund , an Iowa-based group founded with seed money from an
ethanol executive.  For donors, one of the advantages of anonymity is
insulation from controversies -- such as challenges about the
accuracy of political attacks.  In 2010, one of these erupted in Colorado over ads bought
by American Action that claimed Representative Ed Perlmutter had
endorsed Viagra for rapists and pedophiles. The ad ran 178
times, at a cost of $215,402, according to Campaign Media.  Perlmutter, it turns out, had done no such thing. During
the debate over the health-care law, the  U.S. Senate  had voted
on a proposed amendment seeking to restrict federal health
spending for the erectile dysfunction drug. The House never took
a vote on the question.  Pulling An Ad  Denver’s KUSA pulled the ad when it concluded it was
inaccurate, said Mark Cornetta, the station’s president.
American Action, chaired by Washington financier and former
Nixon aide Frederic V. Malek, continued to run it for several
days afterward against Connecticut Representative Christopher
Murphy, according to Campaign Media. Perlmutter and Murphy
defeated their Republican challengers.  Malek said he wasn’t involved in choosing ads the group
decides to run. “I don’t have any idea about the specifics,”
Malek said in an interview. “I know that we advertised on
behalf of center-right candidates. But I really haven’t seen
most of the ads.”  Malek declined to disclose American Action’s donors. “When
people give to an organization under the assumption that it’s
anonymous, people expect it to be anonymous,” he said. ”We’d
be violating them by releasing any names without their
concurrence.”  ‘False And Misleading’  Taxpayer Network, the California group, spent more than
$300,000 to finance anti-Boxer ads, according to four Sacramento
TV stations. The spending wasn’t reported to the FEC. One of the
ads asked, “Would you deny our veterans ongoing health care
when they’re wounded defending us?”  “Boxer did,” it declared.  The ad featured a small text reference, which remained on
the screen for four seconds, identifying an amendment discussed
during the health-care overhaul law passed last year. Boxer, who
was re-elected, joined the majority in voting to table the
amendment, which proposed a tax exemption on medical devices
provided to military veterans. In the debate, the Senate never
voted on any measure that would have denied veterans health care
benefits under federal law.  “This is the worst kind of false and misleading attack,”
said Boxer spokesman Zachary Coile.  Taxpayer Network’s donors remain undisclosed. On its
website, the group says that it “does not endorse or oppose
candidates for election.”  ‘Spending Spree’  Its address is a UPS mailbox in the small California town
of Rocklin. Two of its three directors, Bruce and Lisa Hughes,
are divorce lawyers from Orange County, California. The third is
former Indiana Representative David McIntosh, a lawyer with the
firm Mayer Brown LLP. None of the directors responded to
repeated calls and emails.  The NFIB spent $1 million for ads urging viewers to vote for
17 Republicans, all but three of whom won, and reported this
spending to the FEC as required by law.  NFIB spokesman Kipp Maloney acknowledged not reporting
$1.53 million to the commission. The money, according to
Campaign Media, paid for 3,683 showings of ads that ran between
Oct. 13 and Nov. 2 and accused seven incumbent Democrats of
engaging in a “spending spree.”  Lobbying, Not Politics  FEC rules mandate the reporting of ads that mention
candidates within 60 days of an election, and that target “the
relevant electorate.” The unreported NFIB ads were aimed at
“constituents,” who may or may not vote, and not the
“relevant electorate” specified in the law, Maloney said.
“They were not political ads. They were lobbying efforts.”  In the closing weeks of the 2010 campaign, Max Baucus, the
Democratic chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, asked the
IRS to review the activities of groups with tax-exempt status to
see whether they violated tax laws by overdoing their political
activities.  Baucus’s staff and the IRS are “still talking,” according
to a Finance Committee aide. Grant Williams, an IRS spokesman,
said the agency had “no immediate comment.”  The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee filed a
complaint with the FEC before the election accusing Commission
on Hope of illegally keeping its spending secret. At least a
half-dozen other groups have complained about alleged violations
in the 2010 election cycle. FEC spokeswoman Judith Ingram
declined to comment on the status of any pending complaint.  FEC Deadlock  Based on its recent history, the FEC as constituted won’t
be in a hurry to bring any enforcement actions. Inaction has
been its usual course since July 2008, when three Republicans --
Caroline Hunter, Donald McGahn and Matthew Petersen -- attended
their first meeting of the six-member commission, which also has
three Democrats. Four votes are needed to take action.  Since then, there have been 14 party-line votes on
enforcement cases in which the Republicans disregarded the FEC
general counsel’s recommendation and voted not to investigate
alleged campaign-law violations. In four other cases, partisan
splits caused the FEC to reject proposed settlement agreements
negotiated by its general counsel.  An early deadlock came when the new Republicans rejected a
settlement FEC lawyers had negotiated after a previous
commission concluded that the November Fund had broken the law.
The settlement would have penalized the group, which received $3
million from the U.S. Chamber and ran ads attacking Senator John Edwards, the 2004 Democratic candidate for vice president.  Generating Penalties  That November Fund vote and two similar ones were the first
made along party lines in five years. The previous commission
said the fund had failed to register as a political committee
and had taken donations in violation of a $5,000 limit.  The impasses snapped a string of 11 enforcement cases
between November 2006 and November 2007 in which the FEC took
action against outside groups -- some pro-Republican, some pro-
Democratic -- that were accused of exceeding donation limits in
the 2004 elections.  Those cases generated more than $3 million in penalties,
part of a record $11.8 million collected in 2006 and 2007. From
2008 through 2010, including the 34 months since the new
Republican members arrived, the FEC has collected just over $2
million in penalties, agency figures show.  “What started to change was that, ideologically, you have
three commissioners who do not believe the law should exist,”
said Larry Noble, a former FEC general counsel.  ‘Rendered Irrelevant’  McGahn took issue with the extent of FEC’s enforcement
actions and fines before he and his Republican colleagues
arrived and said lower penalties the last few years are
historically “much more in line” with past commissions.  He rejected the idea that the Republicans aren’t enforcing
the law. “The core of the agency is doing just fine,” he said.  “I feel bad for” the reform groups that call the agency
dysfunctional, he said. “Much of their life’s work has been
rendered irrelevant by a series of stinging court cases.”  The agency can do a lot to promote disclosure even with a
deadlocked commission, said FEC Chairwoman Cynthia Bauerly, a
Democrat.  “While I’d prefer that we could find a way to get those
votes through, we still do a lot of work here.” Her staff, she
said, can ask groups for information via letters and can issue
public reports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Crewdson in Washington at 
 jcrewdson@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;  Charles R. Babcock in Washington at 
 cbabcock1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at +1-617-410-4625 or  gputka@bloomberg.net  