-- 
Senate Blocks Confirmation of Court Nominee Liu

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-19T18:51:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/senate-blocks-confirmation-of-court-nominee-liu-1-.html
The  U.S. Senate  blocked the
nomination of Goodwin Liu to the  9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals  in  San Francisco , the first rejection of one of
President Barack Obama’s judicial choices.  With 60 votes needed to end debate on the  University of
California  law professor’s nomination, the largely party-line
tally was 52 in favor of proceeding to a confirmation vote, 43
against. Joining 51 Democrats voting to end debate was Senator
Lisa Murkowski, an Alaska Republican, while 42 Republicans and
Senator  Ben Nelson , a Nebraska Democrat, opposed the motion.
Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of  Utah  voted “present.”  The procedural vote came after more than a year of delays
in the confirmation process stemming from Republican opposition
to Liu’s selection.  Opponents said Liu, 40, lacks necessary courtroom
experience and has activist judicial views reflected in writings
and speeches supporting expanded welfare rights, gay marriage
and privacy rights. Senator Chuck Grassley of  Iowa , the top
Republican on the  Judiciary Committee , said Liu as a judge might
favor contemporary ideas over the Constitution’s legal
standards.  “I am concerned by his apparent lack of appreciation for
the proper role of a judge in our system of checks and
balances,” Grassley said. “His philosophy leads to an
inevitable expansion of the power of the judiciary.”  Alito Issue  Also at issue for many Republicans were comments Liu made
during testimony to the Judiciary Committee opposing  Samuel Alito ’s nomination to the Supreme Court in 2005 by then-
President  George W. Bush . Liu said Alito’s record as a federal
appeals court judge “envisions an America where police may
shoot and kill an unarmed boy to stop him from running away with
a stolen purse” and where “federal agents may point guns at
ordinary citizens during a raid, even after no sign of
resistance.”  Liu told the Judiciary panel this year he regretted the
language he used.  Republicans, though, said Liu’s rhetoric was intemperate
enough to disqualify him for the judgeship.  ‘Bridge Too Far’  “These statements about Judge Alito and the decisions he’s
rendered and his philosophy are designed to basically say that
people who have” those beliefs “are uncaring, hateful, and
really should be despised,” Senate Lindsey Graham, a South
Carolina Republican, said during floor debate today. “That is a
bridge too far because I share Judge Alito’s philosophy.”  Alito was confirmed to the high court in January 2006.  Liu’s Democratic backers pointed to his years of
scholarship and his background. A native of Augusta,  Georgia ,
Liu is the son of Taiwanese immigrants. He attended public
schools and went on to Yale Law School in  New Haven ,
 Connecticut , a Rhodes scholarship and a clerkship for  Supreme
Court  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg . The  American Bar Association 
rated him “unanimously well qualified” to join the Circuit
court.  Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy said
Liu’s testimony to the panel and his answers to hundreds of
written follow-up questions from Republicans demonstrated that
he would add great weight to the appellate court.  ‘Exceptional Lawyer’  “This is an exceptional lawyer and scholar who would make an
outstanding judge -- a judge who understands the rule of law and
reveres the Constitution,” said Leahy, a Vermont Democrat.  Though the Senate confirmed Obama’s two Supreme Court
justices,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan , some of his lower-
court nominees have experienced delays in Senate consideration.  There are 16 federal appeals court vacancies and 70 on
federal trial courts, according to the  Administrative Office of
the U.S. Courts . A Senate logjam in pending nominations has
eased after partisan feuding over delays last year. Twenty-four
federal judges have won Senate confirmation this year, and last
week the Democratic-led Senate overcame a Republican filibuster
and confirmed John J. McConnell to the federal district court in
 Rhode Island .  Liu’s nomination tested whether he met the “extraordinary
circumstances” warranting a filibuster, which can be broken
only by a 60-vote supermajority, rather than a simple majority
vote for confirmation. That test was established after a bitter
showdown over Bush’s court nominees yielded a bipartisan 2005
agreement to expedite court confirmations.  Republican View  Two of the Republican senators who participated in that
agreement, Graham and  John McCain  of  Arizona , said before
today’s vote that they believed concerns about Liu merited a
filibuster.  “Goodwin Liu should run for elected office, not serve as a
judge,” Graham said in a statement. “Ideologues have their
place, just not on the bench.”  Obama first nominated Liu in February 2010 and renominated
him on Jan. 5. The Senate Judiciary panel approved him twice in
party-line votes.  Liu’s name never went to the Senate floor last year in the
face of a likely filibuster by Republicans, many of whom cited
his past opposition to Bush’s two Supreme Court nominees, Chief
Justice John Roberts and Alito.  Liu has been viewed as a possible future Supreme Court
nominee by Obama. He is a former chairman of the board of the
 American Constitution Society , a Washington-based group whose
website says it seeks to counter the “activist conservative
legal movement.”  Privacy Issue  Liu is co-author of a book, “Keeping Faith with the
Constitution,” that said judges should interpret some portions
of the Constitution, including those pertaining to  privacy
rights , using modern-day views.  At his confirmation hearing in March, Liu defended his
writings and told the judiciary panel he agreed that judges must
follow court precedents.  “He has made absolutely clear that if confirmed he would
follow not any academic theory or writing, but the law as it is
written and handed down by the U.S. Supreme Court,” said
Senator Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat and Judiciary
panel member, said on the Senate floor yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  