-- 
Italy, Spain Fail to Implement Banker Bonus Rules, EU Says

-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-05-19T16:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/seven-states-failing-to-apply-eu-bonus-curbs-commission-says.html
Italy ,  Spain , Greece and four other
European Union nations have failed to implement rules on bank
bonuses aimed at curbing excessive risk taking and preventing
staff from being rewarded for poor results.  Poland ,  Portugal , Slovenia and Slovakia have also missed a
Jan. 1 deadline to adopt the remuneration limits, the European
Commission said in a statement on its website. The commission
gave the countries two months to comply.  “If common rules are not upheld at the same level across
the EU, this would leave room for current loopholes to be
exploited,” the commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
said today.  The EU law, approved last year, restricts cash payments of
bank bonuses and forces lenders to disclosure the number of
people earning more than 1 million euros ($1.4 million).  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services commissioner, has said
further action may be needed in the region to prevent payouts at
“unjustifiable levels,” claiming that lenders had failed to
heed calls for moderation in this year’s bonus round.  Under the EU rules, as much as 60 percent of a bonus payout
for risk-takers and senior managers must be deferred for at
least three years, and half of the remaining amount must be in
the form of shares.  Ten nations have also failed to “fully” put in place
measures in the same law to increase the capital reserves that
lenders must hold against potential losses.  Italy, Spain, Greece, Poland, Portugal,  Slovenia ,  Belgium ,
 Luxembourg , Sweden and Slovakia may face legal action unless
they fully apply the capital rules, the commission said.  Two-Month Deadline  “If the national authorities do not notify the necessary
implementing measures” on the bonus and capital rules “within
two months, the commission may refer the member states concerned
to the Court of Justice,” it said today.  Spain has already implemented “practically all” of the EU
measures and will implement the remaining aspects
“imminently,” the nation’s  finance ministry  said in an e
mailed statement.  Italy’s finance ministry didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail and two phone calls seeking comment.  Sweden plans to comply with the rules by June 30, Victoria
Ericsson, a spokeswoman for the Swedish financial ministry, said
in a telephone interview.  “In the wake of the financial crisis, there’s been a need
for comprehensive regulatory work both on a global and EU level
and these things take a bit of time to implement,” Ericsson
said.  Draft Law  The Slovak finance ministry has prepared a draft law that
will be discussed by the country’s government and then submitted
for approval by lawmakers, Martin Jaros, a spokesman for the
ministry said in a phone interview.  Greece  intends to comply with the rules, a finance ministry
press officer, who wouldn’t be named in line with official
policy, said by phone from  Athens .  Legislation incorporating the EU rules into Slovenian law
is scheduled to be adopted by the end of June, the finance
ministry in Ljubljana said in an e-mail.  Poland’s finance ministry said the country is working on a
law to partially implement the EU rules. The January deadline
originally set by the EU didn’t give Poland enough time to enact
the rules, the ministry said in an e-mail.  Spokespeople at the Portuguese and Belgian finance
ministries couldn’t be immediately reached. The Luxembourg
government declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  