-- 
Severstal Said to Consider Raspadskaya Purchase, Weigh Risks

-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/severstal-said-to-consider-raspadskaya-purchase-weigh-risks.html
OAO Severstal, Russian billionaire
Alexey Mordashov’s steelmaker, is considering a possible
acquisition of the OAO  Raspadskaya (RASP)  coal miner, said two people
with knowledge of the plans.  After looking at the assets, Severstal is weighing the
risks and benefits, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is confidential. They declined to
give specific timelines.  Severstal plans to expand in mining to boost margins.
Prices for raw materials have been outpacing steel on Chinese
demand as the world economy starts to recover after the
financial crisis.  The risk is that Raspadskaya may be worth “significantly
less” than its current market value of 132 billion rubles ($4.7
billion), the people said. Underground fires continue to burn
after blasts a year ago killed 90 people and disabled
Raspadskaya’s flagship mine for half a year, while water used to
put out the fires might have damaged the equipment, they said.  Evraz Group SA (EVR) , the Russian steelmaker part-owned by
billionaire  Roman Abramovich , and Raspadskaya management led by
Chief Executive Officer Gennady Kozovoy hired Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley to find a buyer for their combined 80 percent
stake in the coal producer, two people with knowledge of the
plans said March 10. On March 11, Evraz said it is considering
options for its 40 percent.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) ,  Russia ’s largest steel-making coal producer,
controlled by billionaire Igor Zyuzin, studied buying
Raspadskaya, people familiar with the matter said March 15.
Raspadskaya shareholders rejected Mechel’s $2 billion bid for
the company as too low, RBC Daily  reported  May 11.  Alexander Andreev, spokesman for Raspadskaya in the
Kemerovo region couldn’t be reached by phone today. Tatyana Drachuk, a Evraz spokeswoman, and Natalia Ivanova, a Severstal
spokeswoman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net 
Yuliya Fedorinova at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  