-- 
Sex Scandal Is Another Travesty at IMF’s Door: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-19T04:34:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sex-scandal-is-another-travesty-at-imf-s-door-william-pesek.html
In the annals of career suicide,
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  may warrant his own chapter.  The sex charges against him in  New York  are a matter for
the courts. Yet we do know this: The  International Monetary Fund  
lost a capable leader after Strauss-Kahn bowed to the inevitable 
and resigned today. French voters may say au revoir to a man who
might have become president and Europeans are questioning how
the scandal might affect the debt-crisis rescue.  Asians should be asking a different question: Isn’t now the
time to install one of their own as IMF managing director?  Tradition holds that a European runs the  IMF , while an
American heads the World Bank. It’s as anachronistic as the idea
that the West still comprises the core of a financial system
that is tilting toward Asia. Europe wants a local to help it
oversee the bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . It makes
more sense to tap someone from a region that rebounded from its
own crisis in stunning fashion.  Here are four of many worthy Asian nominees who should be
considered to run the IMF.  -- Haruhiko Kuroda. Since 2004, the Japanese economist has
headed the Asian Development Bank with remarkable success. The
former Ministry of Finance bigwig brought a sense of purpose and
accountability to an unwieldy, Manila-based lender with more
than 2,800  staffers  around the globe. He focused his institution
on upgrading infrastructure and education, a move that will
broaden the benefits of rapid growth and boost competitiveness.  Among the tragedies of Strauss-Kahn being charged with
sexually assaulting a hotel housekeeper is that he was good at
his day job. My most memorable interview with him was in 1998,
when he was French finance minister. In his Paris office, we
discussed the IMF’s huge missteps a year earlier in  Asia . A
decade later, Strauss-Kahn would be in a position to correct
those errors as Europe went the way of Asia.  Course Correction  Kuroda might be able to engineer an even bigger IMF course
correction: a more forward-looking take on where the global
economy is heading. He also may have the clout in  Tokyo  to keep
officials from balking at the mounting reconstruction costs
following a March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  -- Sri Mulyani Indrawati. Few developing nations have made
bigger advances over the last dozen years than Indonesia. During
her stint as finance minister from 2005 to 2010, Sri Mulyani did
a stellar job reducing growth-squandering regulations,
modernizing the banking system and increasing accountability in
ways the nation hadn’t seen in generations. Her anti-corruption
campaign cheered investors and  Transparency International  alike.  Street Credibility  She was so effective that Indonesian opposition parties
engineered her departure to a senior gig at the  World Bank  --to
get her out of the way. Why not invite her to walk down 19th
Street in  Washington  to run its sister institution? The IMF
would get some serious street credibility among developing
nations and the Muslim world. And judging from my own
conversations with Sri Mulyani, she would know better than to
stay in a $3,000 hotel suite.  -- Zeti Akhtar Aziz. She is as internationally respected a
central banker as any these days. The Bank Negara Malaysia
governor played a key role in turning  Kuala Lumpur  into the
global hub of the $1 trillion Islamic finance industry.  Zeti also was part of the team that bet against the IMF and
won. In the late 1990s, it seemed inevitable that Malaysia would
join Thailand,  Indonesia  and South Korea in accepting
multibillion-dollar IMF bailouts and stringent conditions like
raising  interest rates , cutting spending and letting
irresponsible companies fail.  Malaysia said no and Zeti helped it weather the turbulence.
And then she watched the U.S., in the height of hypocrisy, do
all the things it told Asian officials not to do. Zeti would
bring a different perspective to the IMF, one much-needed.  Different Angle  --  Montek Singh Ahluwalia . As the former head of the IMF’s
independent evaluation office, Ahluwalia, also has seen the
institution at its worst. The deputy chairman of  India ’s
planning commission would come at the job from a grass-roots
angle. He was a top Finance Ministry official in 1991, when
India began opening its economy. While it’s a work in progress,
his handiwork helped set the stage for today’s 8 percent growth.  India is an example of a financial system that did a better
job than the West at navigating the 2008 crisis that killed
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Say what you want about India’s
inefficiencies and corruption -- its regulatory environment has
served the nation well in recent years. One possible demerit: At
67, Ahluwalia may be deemed too old for the job.  There are many other Asian possibilities. Min Zhu, a
special adviser to the IMF and a former deputy governor at
 China ’s central bank, may get a look. So might Singapore Finance
Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, former  Hong Kong  Monetary
Authority Chief Executive Officer Joseph Yam and, a bit farther
west, Kemal Dervis, Turkey’s former minister of economic affairs.  New Chapter  Europe  has some solid candidates.  Christine Lagarde ,
 France ’s finance minister, is a case in point. Gordon Brown is
not, given his unsteady leadership while serving as U.K. prime
minister. Brown’s successor, David Cameron, would be right to
oppose his bid for Strauss-Kahn’s job.  Cameron is even more correct about something else --that it
might be time for a candidate from another part of the world.
With $6 trillion of currency reserves and the kind of dynamism
and demographics so many investors are counting on, that part is
Asia. The world is ready for a new chapter in Washington.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Hong Kong at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  