-- 
Seychelles Voting Starts as Parties Exchange Accusations

-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m   a n d   M a r i e - A n t o i n e t t e   L a u r e n c e
-- 
2011-05-19T13:27:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/seychelles-presidential-voting-starts-opposition-plans-to-lodge-complaint.html
Voters in the Seychelles began
casting their ballots in a presidential election today with the
ruling party and the opposition exchanging allegations of voter
fraud.  President James Michel’s People’s Party was bribing voters
at their offices,  National Party  spokesman Sandy Arrisol said in
a telephone interview from the capital, Victoria, today. The
ruling party will issue counter-complaints against the National
Party, Michel’s campaign spokeswoman Marie-Antoinette Rose said.  “We dismiss claims that we have bribed anyone and are
confident that we’ve followed all electoral laws because it is
in our interest to have the election declared free and fair,”
Rose said in a mobile phone interview from the main island of
Mahe today.  The Electoral Commissioner’s office said it had received
complaints about campaign posters within 200 meters (656 feet)
of polling stations. No complaints had been lodged alleging
bribery, said a spokeswoman for the commission, who declined to
be named in line with the organization’s policy.  Michel has been in office since 2004 after replacing the
 People’s Party  leader France Albert Rene, who came to power in a
coup in 1977. Michel was re-elected in 2006 with 53.7 percent of
the vote against the 45.7 percent won by the National Party’s
candidate, Wavel Ramkalawan.  Rose said allegations of “heavy bribery in the north of
the island” had been made against the National Party. The
charges were denied by Arrisol.  Voting on the first day of the three day election was
confined to people living on the outer-islands of the
archipelago, essential services, the elderly and the disabled.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Johannesburg at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gordon Bell at   gbell16@bloomberg.net . 