-- 
Warne Retires From Indian Premier League, Ending Cricket Career

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-05-19T18:31:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/shane-warne-retires-from-indian-premier-league-ending-his-cricket-career.html
Shane Warne today brings down the
curtain on a cricket career that’s had its share of records, as
well as controversy.  Warne, the second-highest wicket-taker in Test history,
plays his final match today for the Rajasthan Royals in the
Indian Premier League. The 41-year-old Australian has spent four
seasons playing Twenty20, the newest and shortest form of the
game, after retiring from international and first-class cricket.  “It was a hard decision to make as I have really enjoyed
playing the IPL,” Warne said this month on his  website . “It’s
time to move on and concentrate on my post-playing life and
business career.”  Warne took a then-record 708 Test wickets for  Australia 
from 1992-2007. The mark was broken the year he retired by  Sri
Lanka ’s  Muttiah Muralitharan , who has 800 Test wickets.  Leg-spinner Warne was named one of the five “Cricketers of
the 20th Century” by the Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack. His first
delivery against England in 1993, which dismissed Mike Gatting,
was described as the “ball of the century.”  “Warne’s certainly been the greatest spinner to have
played the game in the modern era,” Ajay Jadeja, a former
Indian cricketer, said by telephone from  New Delhi . “I doubt
you will ever see a spinner with the quality of skills that he
had.”  Controversy has also followed Warne. He failed a drug test
before the 2003  World Cup  in  South Africa , claiming he swallowed
a fluid-reducing tablet without realizing it contained a
prohibited substance.  Lost Vice-Captaincy  He was also stripped of the Australian vice-captaincy in
2000 after admitting to making lewd telephone calls, was fined
six years earlier for taking money from an Indian bookmaker and
lost a contract with Nine Network in Australia following U.K.
newspaper reports of a series of extra-marital affairs that led
to the breakup of his marriage.  Two days ago he was fined $50,000 by the Board of Control
for Cricket in India for a dispute with an administrator after
an IPL game last week. His personal life has also come under
scrutiny this season as he has frequently been photographed with
English actress Elizabeth Hurley.  “My life, like everyone’s, has been full of highs and
lows,” Warne said on his website. “I have been fortunate to
experience many more highs than lows and for that I am very
lucky.”  Warne made his Test debut against  India  in 1992 and played
in the Ashes against England for the first time the following
year, starting out with the Gatting ball, a delivery that
pitched outside leg stump and spun to hit off stump.  Gatting Dismissal  “No matter how much time passes, I am still asked about it
regularly and I expect I always will be,” Gatting wrote in the
 Times of London  in 2006. “I suppose I can say ‘I was there’ at
the moment he first indicated his potential to the wider
world.”  The ball -- which Warne says “literally changed my life”
-- and his performance helped Australia to a 4-1 series win, and
when the teams met again in 1994 he took a hat-trick to help
retain cricket’s oldest trophy. His only Ashes series defeat was
in  England  in 2005, and his retirement from international play
two years later came after Australia regained the trophy with a
5-0 whitewash.  Warne took 293 wickets in 194 one-day matches and was named
man-of-the-match in Australia’s 1999 World Cup final win. His
ability to confuse batsmen with any of his six spinning
deliveries helped Australia to the top of the Test and one-day
forms of the game.  IPL Success  Warne continued to play and was captain of English county
team Hampshire until he quit in 2008. He finished his career
with 1,319 first-class wickets.  Warne joined Rajasthan when the lucrative IPL began in
2008, on an initial annual contract of $450,000, helping the
Royals to the league title in his first season. He’s taken 12
wickets in 12 matches this season, heading into today’s game at
Mumbai. Rajasthan hasn’t made the playoffs.  “Sometimes you feel like your life is constantly see-
sawing and it is difficult to keep everything in perspective,”
Warne said on his website. “Right now I am in the best place I
have ever been.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 