-- 
Shell’s U.S. Shale Gas May Be Refined Into Diesel, Jet Fuel

-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 
2011-05-19T13:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/shell-s-u-s-shale-gas-may-be-refined-into-diesel-jet-fuel-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s
largest oil company, said a $19 billion investment in Qatar may
prove that abundant natural gas coaxed from shale rocks across
the U.S. could be converted into diesel and  jet fuel .  Shell, which is completing the world’s largest gas-to-
liquids plant in Qatar, could use the technology on a smaller
scale in the U.S. if  capital costs  can be reduced,  Marvin Odum ,
head of Shell in the Americas, said in an interview in  London .
The technology uses catalysts to turn natural gas into jet fuel,
diesel and other liquids.  The development of shale fields made the U.S. the world’s
largest gas producer in 2009 and caused a slump in prices.
Today’s price of $4.18 is equivalent to about $24 a barrel of
crude. Oil is trading at about $100 a barrel in  New York .  “It’s an important thing for the U.S. that they found this
huge shale gas resource” to reduce dependence on oil imports,
said  Hannes Loacker , an analyst with Raiffeisen Bank AG in
Vienna. “The longer gas prices will stay at such a low level,
the more will happen” because producers will look for ways to
gain from mispricing.  Oil, Gas Arbitrage  U.S. gas producers are examining different ways to benefit
from the arbitrage between oil and gas prices. In the nearer
term, compressed and liquefied gas is likely to play a greater
role as a transportation fuel, Odum said. Exports of liquefied
natural gas by ship are possible from  North America , more likely
from Canada than the U.S., where there are political obstacles
to exports, he said.  Shell expects to produce the equivalent of 400,000 barrels
of gas in the Americas in 2015, double the figure in 2009, as it
invests $40 billion in the region, The Hague-based company said
last year.  Shale gas may account for 47 percent of total U.S.
production in 2035, up from 16 percent in 2009, according to the
Energy Information Administration.  Shell’s  Pearl GTL plant  in  Qatar  will start production this
year and make enough diesel to fuel 160,000 cars a day when it
reaches full output. It will also make kerosene and base oils.  BG Group Plc (BG/) , a U.K.-based producer that has U.S. shale
fields, agrees that gas-to-liquids may have a future in North
America.  ‘Huge Differential’  BG expects producers to find ways to benefit from “the
huge differential between the cost of oil and the cost of gas,”
Chief Executive Officer Frank Chapman said last week. That may
help to reduce petroleum imports to the nation with the help of
“middle distillate synthesis from gas.”  The U.S. government is examining at least nine proposals to
allow exports of LNG produced from domestic gas. BG and  Southern
Union Co. (SUG)  were the latest to seek permission from the Department
of Energy. Companies would like to supply the fuel to Asia or
Europe where prices are higher.  “There are many other proponents talking about not only
exporting gas, but finding other uses for it in the U.S.,” such
as chemicals and fertilizers, Chapman said. The gap between oil
and gas prices will narrow over time and it “will be good for
owners of substantial gas reserves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  