-- 
Siam Industrial Shares Gain Most in 12 Years on Share Offer

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-05-19T06:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/siam-industrial-shares-gain-most-in-12-years-on-share-offer-1-.html
Siam Industrial Credit Pcl (SICCO) , a Thai
financial company, climbed the most in more than 12 years after
its biggest shareholder offered to buy stock at a premium.  Siam Industrial surged 56 percent to 6.60 baht as of the
12:30 p.m. lunch break, the largest intraday gain since August
1998. The stock was the best performer in the 481-member SET
Index, which was little changed.  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) , Thailand’s fourth-largest lender,
offered to buy Siam Industrial shares at 6.89 baht each and said
it will remove the stock from the nation’s bourse. The offer, a
63 percent premium to Siam Industrial’s closing price yesterday,
came after Siam Commercial failed to find a buyer for its
existing 38.7 percent stake in the company.  “Siam Commercial Bank’s offering indicates its desperation
to resolve Siam Industrial’s lingering problem after the failure
to find new investors,” said Sasikorn Charoensuwan, head of
research at Phillip Securities ( Thailand ) Pcl. “The offering
price will make Siam Industrial’s shareholders happy because
it’s close to the company’s book value, which is much higher
than the market price.”  Siam Commercial had planned to sell its Siam Industrial
stake after the central bank told lenders to pare holdings in
financial institutions that take deposits from the public, it
said in a statement today. Siam Commercial on May 10 said it
didn’t receive any bids for its Siam Industrial stake.  Siam Industrial’s book value, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, is about 6.92 baht a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The Thai exchange today removed the 30
percent trading ceiling for Siam Industrial’s stock.  Siam Commercial dropped 1.3 percent to 114 baht.  Sicco
Securities Pcl (SSEC) , Siam Industrial’s brokerage unit, jumped 29
percent to 1.15 baht. Siam Commercial will probably have to
offer to buy Sicco Securities after the Siam Industrial buyout,
Sasikorn said.  Siam Industrial owns 70 percent in the brokerage, according
to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  