-- 
Siemens Will Return $927 Million to Areva to End Nuclear Venture Dispute

-- B y   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-05-19T22:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/siemens-to-return-927-million-to-areva-in-nuclear-exit-dispute.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  will pay France’s  Areva SA (CEI) 
648 million euros ($927 million) after an arbitration tribunal
found the German company failed to meet contractual obligations
in a nuclear joint venture that it exited earlier this year.  The payment, plus interest, will be booked in Siemens’s
fiscal third quarter ending June, the Munich-based company said
in a statement late yesterday. Siemens had sold its stake in the
joint venture to Areva in March for a pretax gain of 1.52
billion euros. The tribunal also cut in half the term of the
non-compete clause of the former joint venture to four years.  The French joint venture, previously called Framatome, was
the world’s biggest maker of nuclear reactors and was created a
decade ago when Areva and Siemens merged their nuclear reactor
businesses in  France ,  Germany  and the U.S.  Siemens said in March that its 34 percent share in the
partnership may be worth 1.62 billion euros, according to an
independent expert appointed by the two companies. That
assumption was lower than the 2 billion euro-value that Siemens
had assigned in September 2009.  In the second quarter, the sale of the stake helped profit
at Siemens’s fossil power division rise more than sixfold to
2.05 billion euros. Siemens has sought to expand in renewable
energy including wind and solar and focus more on
infrastructure, health-care systems and factory automation.  Germany is reconsidering its nuclear-energy future
following the reactor accident in  Japan ’s Fukushima power plant.
 Europe ’s largest economy had previously extended the lifespan of
its nuclear facilities, and the government has now suspended
that extension as it weighs the risk of keeping the facilities
hooked up to the grid for longer.  Siemens shares rose 2.08 euros, or 2.3 percent, to 93.84
euros in Frankfurt trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  