-- 
Singapore Raises 2011 GDP Growth Forecast, Sustaining Pressure on Currency

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-05-19T01:56:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/singapore-raises-growth-forecast.html
Singapore raised its growth forecast
for 2011 after the island’s economy expanded the most in
 Southeast Asia  last quarter, sustaining pressure on the central
bank to allow the currency to appreciate.  Gross domestic product will increase 5 percent to 7 percent
this year, from an earlier forecast of 4 percent to 6 percent,
the trade ministry said today. The economy expanded 22.5 percent
in the three months through March from the previous quarter,
compared with a preliminary estimate of 23.5 percent.  Singapore’s expansion has fueled a surge in the cost of
living that helped propel opposition parties to a record share
of the vote in this month’s election. The report spurred a third 
straight day of gains in the local dollar, bringing the advance 
against its U.S. counterpart to 13 percent over the past year as 
policy makers use currency appreciation to temper inflation.  “Domestic and external demand remains strong and we’ll
probably continue to see more gains in the  Singapore  dollar this
year,” said Kit Wei Zheng, a Singapore-based economist at
Citigroup Inc. “Consumer price inflation may have peaked but
pressures in the pipeline will remain elevated.”  The  Monetary Authority of Singapore  said last month it
would allow further gains in the currency in the third
tightening of monetary policy in a year. Global central banks
are raising  interest rates , removing excess cash from their
financial systems or allowing their currencies to appreciate as
rising oil and commodity prices fuel inflation.  Best Performer  The  Singapore dollar  is the best performer in  Asia  outside
Japan in the past 12 months. The currency rose 0.5 percent to
S$1.2377 against its U.S. counterpart as of 9:49 a.m. local time.  The island’s expansion came even as the GDP of Japan, the
island’s seventh-biggest trading partner, shrank at a more-than-
estimated 3.7 percent pace in the first quarter, according to a
government report today.  Singapore’s government has boosted financial services and
tourism to reduce its reliance on exports. Companies from
 Singapore Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  to hotel operator Shangri-La Asia Ltd.
have benefited from record tourist arrivals.  Genting Singapore
Plc (GENS) , one of the two casino operators in the city, turned to a
first-quarter profit of S$305.4 million ($247 million) in the
three months ended March 31 as sales almost tripled to S$922.6
million.  Global Recovery  While Japan’s GDP is shrinking, economies from  Germany  and
 China  to  Brazil  have sustained their economic rebounds.
Singapore’s trade ministry said today advanced economies “remain
on a path of modest recovery,” citing an improving labor market
in the U.S., rising exports and household spending in the
European Union and “healthy” growth in emerging Asia.  “The global recovery story remains largely intact and
Singapore is a beneficiary of that expansion,” Selena Ling,
head of treasury research at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
Singapore, said before the report. “While inflation has
probably peaked, the economic environment may get a bit more
challenging in coming quarters.”  Singapore, located at the southern end of the 600-mile
(965-kilometer) Malacca Strait, benefited from improving
overseas demand for manufactured goods as the global economy
recovered from the 2009 slump.  The Southeast Asian nation’s economy grew a record 14.5
percent in 2010. Singapore’s economic performance will probably
stay at “high levels” for the rest of 2011, spurring
inflationary pressures even as the island tightens monetary
policy, the central bank said last month.  Labor Market  A “tight” labor market will add to business costs, the
trade ministry said today. Cost pressures may build up further
and impact business activity, Kwek Mean Luck, a deputy secretary
at the Ministry of Trade and Industry, said in Singapore today.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s government is distributing
cash to its citizens and giving out utility rebates to limit the
effect of price increases. The country held elections this month,
and the ruling People’s Action Party was returned to power with
the smallest percentage of popular votes since independence in
1965 as citizens complained about the rising cost of living.  Inflation may have peaked and a stronger currency has
helped damp price gains, central bank Managing Director Ravi Menon said yesterday. Singapore’s monetary policy remains
appropriate and the central bank still expects inflation to
average 3 percent to 4 percent this year, Ong Chong Tee, deputy
managing director at the Monetary Authority of Singapore, said
at a press briefing today.  Property Curbs  Central banks in  Vietnam , India and  Malaysia  raised
borrowing costs this month to curb price increases. Malaysia
reported yesterday that inflation accelerated to a two-year high.  In Singapore, where demand for private homes and mortgages
has boosted earnings for companies including lender DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. and real-estate developer City Developments Ltd.,
policy makers have introduced measures to curb property
speculation.  The revised economic expansion in the first quarter
compares with the 22 percent median forecast of nine economists
in a Bloomberg News survey. Compared with a year earlier, the
economy grew 8.3 percent last quarter, the ministry said. That’s
higher than the growth rates of Malaysia,  Indonesia , Vietnam and
the  Philippines , and exceeds the 2.7 percent pace estimated for
 Thailand  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Singapore’s manufacturing will be bolstered by new plants
in the chemicals industries and higher production by biomedical
companies, while economic growth will spur lending and insurance,
the trade ministry said in a statement today.  Growth Risks  Risks to growth include “continued concerns of sovereign
debt sustainability in  Europe , further increases in global  oil
prices  arising from the political turmoil in the Middle East and
North Africa region, and a prolonged disruption of industrial
activities in  Japan ,” it said.  Neighboring Malaysia, Singapore’s biggest trade partner,
reported yesterday growth slowed to 4.6 percent last quarter as
manufacturing and services moderated.  “Local manufacturers could be affected should the
disruption supply from Japan persist into the second half of
2011,” the Singapore trade ministry’s Kwek said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  