-- 
Six Danish Banks Downgraded at Moody’s

-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 
2011-05-19T07:50:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/six-danish-banks-downgraded-at-moody-s.html
Danske Bank A/S and five other Danish
lenders had their ratings cut by Moody’s Investors Service after
the February failure of a regional bank triggered the European
Union’s first senior creditor losses.  The financial strength ratings for five of the lenders was
also downgraded by one step, reflecting Moody’s “assessment of
the banks’ weakened intrinsic strength,” it said in a statement
today. Danske Bank had its financial strength rating affirmed.  The Feb. 6 failure of Amagerbanken A/S forced a 41 percent
loss on unsecured senior bonds and prompted Moody’s 10 days
later to cut ratings on five Danish lenders, including Danske,
as it factored out state protection. The insolvency was the
first to test rules  Denmark  put in place in October and set a
European Union precedent for senior creditor losses amid a
region-wide debate on burden sharing.  Amagerbanken’s resolution “clarified that the Danish
government would favor market solutions in future bank
bailouts,” Moody’s said.  “We’ve seen some evidence that funding costs are rising,
but we see this more as a long-term issue,” Moody’s analyst
Oscar Heemskerk said by phone today. “It could lead to foreign
investors scrutinizing Danish banks more, making funding more
difficult to obtain and more expensive.”  Swap Rates  Moody’s today cut the long-term ratings and financial
strength ratings of Jyske Bank A/S, Sydbank A/S, Spar Nord Bank
A/S, Ringkjoebing Landbobank A/S and BankNordik P/F, it said.  The cost of insuring against losses on senior five-year
notes issued by Danske Bank is almost twice that of guarding
against losses on same-maturity notes sold by Stockholm-based
Nordea Bank AB. Credit default swaps on Danske Bank’s debt
traded at 109 basis points yesterday, compared with 65.5 on
Nordea’s notes, according to Bloomberg data.  “Danske Bank was downgraded due to less systemic
support,” Heemskerk said. “The bank’s underlying issues
persist, which is why we’ve kept the outlook negative.”  BankNordik, based in the Faroe Islands capital of Torshavn,
late yesterday said it agreed to buy the healthy parts of
Amagerbanken for a net goodwill fee of 235 million kroner ($45
million) from Denmark’s state-backed winding-down unit Financial
Stability. BankNordik will also receive as much as 300 million
kroner in equity as part of the agreement, it said.  Workaround Bill?  Danish lawmakers on May 13 started debating a proposal from
Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen that will make it easier to
sidestep  Europe ’s toughest winding-down rules. The bill would
promote consolidation by allowing healthy banks to tap cash in
the country’s depositor guarantee fund to finance acquisitions
of troubled lenders.  The move could help Denmark weather any funding disruptions
that may yet hit the country while it waits for others in the
region to copy its model. According to Jesper Berg, senior vice
president at Nykredit A/S, as long as Denmark is an outlier with
its bail-in precedent, its banks face a potentially inhospitable
funding environment.  “The impact of Amagerbanken on the funding situation of
Danish banks was not helpful,” Berg said in an interview last
week. “Denmark is still ahead in Europe in its implementation
of bank resolution schemes at a time when financial markets are
very nervous about these. Other countries will follow, but until
then, Danish banks will have a funding disadvantage.”  Moody’s expects that “over time, the Danish authorities
will continue to develop the necessary legal and regulatory
tools to enable the practical application of bail-in procedures
even to large banks,” the rating company said in the statement.  Danske Bank, Jyske Bank and Sydbank had their long-term
grades cut to A2 from A1, Moody’s said. Spar Nord Bank and
BankNordik had their ratings lowered to Baa2 from Baa1, it said.
Ringkjoebing Landbobank had its rating cut to A3 from A2.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 Plevring1@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  