-- 
Soccer Body to Get Bribery Evidence From ‘Whistleblower,’ Blatter Says

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-19T14:15:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/soccer-body-to-get-bribery-evidence-from-whistleblower-blatter-says.html
Soccer’s governing body will hear
evidence from a former employee of Qatar’s successful bid for
the 2022  World Cup  that the country paid bribes to two officials
to secure the event, FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  said today.  The unidentified person will appear in person, Blatter told
reporters today at FIFA’s headquarters. The whistleblower told
the Sunday Times newspaper that the Gulf state paid FIFA Vice
President Issa Hayatou and Ivory Coast official Jacques Anouma
$1.5 million each to choose Qatar over four other nations,
including the U.S. Both men and Qatar deny the allegations.  “The newspaper has agreed that they will bring this
whistleblower here to Zurich and then we will have a discussion,
an investigation of this,” Blatter said. The person will meet
with FIFA General Secretary  Jerome Valcke  and its head of legal
affairs Marco Villiger.  Blatter, who has been in charge of FIFA for 12 years, is
running for a fourth term and has said he’ll fight corruption.
He’s being opposed by Mohamed Bin Hammam, a Qatari, who heads
soccer in  Asia . As well as the claims made in the Sunday Times
newspaper, former English F.A. Chairman David Triesman told a
U.K. parliamentary committee that four other members of the 22-
man panel voting on the World Cup hosts asked for favors.  England came last of four bidders for the 2018 tournament.
Last week it hired a senior U.K. lawyer to conduct an
independent inquiry into Triesman’s allegations. He’ll report
back shortly before the June 1 FIFA presidential election.  Blatter said “we must know if the allegations are true or
not true or unproven” before the vote. England’s Football
Association said today it will abstain from voting in the
election.  Other Allegations  Triesman was forced to resign from his post after being
secretly recorded saying a joint Spanish-Portuguese 2018 bid had
colluded with Qatar’s offer for the 2022 World Cup to share
votes and that  Spain  would consider stepping down if Russia
helped it bribe referees at the 2010 World Cup. None of the
allegations were proven.  The English official said Jack Warner, a FIFA vice
president from Trinidad & Tobago, Brazil’s Ricardo Teixeira,
Paraguay’s Nicolas Leoz and Thailand’s Worawi Makudi made
improper demands for their votes. All four have denied the
claims.  Blatter refused to rule out a rerun of the vote for the
2022 World Cup. Russia won the 2018 event. The panel had already
been reduced to 22 from 24 after two officials were suspended
following an earlier inquiry into vote selling.  “This an idea circulating around the world,” Blatter said
about the chances of another poll. “Don’t ask me yes or no.”  Blatter, who’s already received the endorsements of the
governing bodies in  Europe ,  South America , Africa and the
Oceania region, said Warner, the head of soccer in central and
North America sent him an e-mail saying his region was the 75-
year-old’s “home ground.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich via  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 