-- 
Sotheby’s Stock Drops 25% After Tepid Sales in Hong Kong, N.Y.

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-05-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sotheby-s-stock-drops-25-after-top-lots-disappoint-in-hong-kong-new-york.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  shares have lost a quarter
of their value in the past month, a much steeper decline than
this volatile stock has seen during any of the critical spring
auction periods of the past five years.  The closing price of $40.46 on Tuesday represented a 25.6
percent decline from a 3 1/2-year high of $54.41 on April 5.
Sotheby’s gained yesterday to close at $41.95, making the
decline about 23 percent.  After falling as low as $6.47 on March 6, 2009, the auction
house came back strongly starting late that year and rode its
recovery to the April peak. Then the stock got hit hard by
disappointing sales in Hong Kong and  New York .  “The expectations were getting higher and higher and it
was reflected in the stock price,” said Jason Benowitz,
portfolio manager at Roosevelt Investment Group Inc., one of
Sotheby’s major shareholders which bought the stock in the
beginning of 2010 for a price in the low $20s.  In March, a Chinese vase estimated to fetch $800 to $1,200
soared to $18 million at Sotheby’s, becoming the most expensive
lot among a dozen Asia Week auctions in New York.  “That story began to change during the last days of the
Hong Kong auctions in April where the results were within the
estimate range, not exceeding them,” Benowitz said.  The  Hong Kong  auctions brought in $447 million, a 75
percent increase from last year’s total, said William F. Ruprecht, Sotheby’s president and chief executive officer,
during a teleconference with investors last week.  ‘First Crack’  Still, Hong Kong saw a major setback with the Meiyintang
Collection, marketed as one of the greatest private collections
of imperial Chinese porcelain in the world. It brought in $51.2
million including fees, below the $91 million to $137 million
presale estimate. Even with some pieces selling privately after
the auction, the $88.4 million total fell short of the low
estimate.  “That was the first crack in the bubbly confidence that
characterized the Asian buying until then,” said Vikram Mansharamani, author of “Boombustology: Spotting Financial
Bubbles Before They Burst.”  The stock responded by dropping 5 percent and closing at
$50.96 on April 7.  About 20 percent of the recent decline occurred since the
auction house’s major evening sales of Impressionist, modern and
contemporary art, which began on May 3.  The company sold $170.5 million of Impressionist and modern
art, close to the low end of the presale range of $159 million
to $230 million. A week later, an evening contemporary art sale
totaled $128.1 million, just over the low presale estimate of
$120 million. Both results were the smallest for a New York
evening sale in those categories in two years.  ‘At the Low End’  “People have come to expect they will continue to deliver
the tremendous results they have been,” said Benowitz. “In
this case, the results were at the low end of the estimate.”  Smaller margins resulting from the need to compete with
rival Christie’s may also have contributed to the weakness of
Sotheby’s stock, analysts said.  “We see some deals that seem proffered by competitors,
which don’t make sense to us,” Ruprecht said during the
teleconference discussing its first quarter results last week.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 