-- 
South Korea Will Tighten Curbs on Currency Derivatives After Won Advances

-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-05-20T06:15:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/south-korea-tightens-limits-on-holdings-of-currency-derivatives-at-banks.html
South Korea  said it will tighten
limits on the amount of currency derivatives banks can hold as
it seeks to curb swings in capital flows and the won.  Local branches of overseas banks will be allowed to hold
currency derivatives contracts equivalent to no more than 200
percent of equity capital, down from 250 percent, and the cap
for domestic banks will be reduced to 40 percent from 50 percent,
the  finance ministry  said in a statement late yesterday.  The won has strengthened 3.7 percent this year after
advancing 3.4 percent in 2010, putting pressure on an economy
that depends on exports for half its output. Regulators have
probed banks including  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  ING Groep NV (INGA)  and
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  amid concern derivatives are contributing
to a buildup in short-term external debt that makes South Korea
vulnerable to shocks from overseas.  “The move is sensible and should help to limit volatility
of capital flows,” said Wai Ho Leong, an economist at  Barclays
Capital  in  Singapore .  South Korea’s currency rose 0.35 percent today to 1,082.45
per dollar as of 2:40 p.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Forward Markets  The changes to derivatives caps will take effect on June 1,
with one-month grace period, and come as emerging countries from
 Brazil  to  Thailand  take steps to cool currency gains and slow
inflows of foreign money. South Korea will consider adjusting
the caps each quarter, according to yesterday’s statement.  South Korean exporters such as shipbuilders have been
selling the dollar for the won in forward markets to hedge
expected export income. Banks on the other side of these
transactions typically borrow dollars to lock in an  exchange
rate  and reduce risk.  The nation’s short-term debt from overseas jumped the most
in three years in March, rising by $6.72 billion, central bank
data showed.  “High short-term external debt can increase volatility in
the FX market and the wider economy, especially if the global
economy and financial markets deteriorate suddenly,” Kwon Young Sun, a Hong Kong-based economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said
yesterday before the announcement. “The government sees market
expectations for the dollar-won largely one-way, for rise in the
won, and they believe this is unwarranted speculation.”  Smoothing the Won  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said in an interview on
May 3 that South Korea will smooth “extreme volatility” in the
won. The jump in external debt at some financial companies
prompted the  Financial Supervisory Service  to inspect currency
derivatives transaction, Yoon said on April 22.  The ministry also said yesterday that it will come up with
regulations for kimchi bonds soon, without giving details. Sales
of kimchi bonds, or foreign-currency debt sold in South Korea,
has also driven the increase in short-term external debt, Deputy
Finance Minister Choi Jong Ku said April 28. Kimchi bonds sales
rose to about $3.7 billion for the first quarter of this year,
compared with $6.1 billion for all of 2010, Choi said.  South Korea is considering stricter regulation of foreign
currency-denominated bonds sold in the nation in cases where the
seller converts the proceeds back into won, Financial Services
Commission Vice Chairman Shin Jae Yoon told reporters today.  Bank Probes  The 12-month non-deliverable forward rose 0.3 percent to
1,108.45 dollar yesterday, a 2 percent discount to the spot rate.
Forwards are agreements to buy and sell assets at current prices
for delivery at a future specified time and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The Financial Supervisory Service said on April 25 it would
audit currency derivatives at  Credit Agricole , ING Groep,
Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Ltd. and Woori Finance
Holdings Co.’s main banking unit and then begin inspecting more
companies. The regulator hasn’t disclosed the outcome of its
investigations and spokesmen for the banks declined to comment
on the matter.  ING Bank NV’s Seoul branch may ask its headquarters for
more equity or cut its currency derivatives position to meet the
new foreign exchange rules, the branch manager Jeroen Plag told
reporters today in Seoul.  South Korea has introduced several “macro-prudential”
measures to reduce volatility in capital flows and trading of
the won. It first initiated the caps on banks’ holdings of
foreign-exchange derivative in October 2010 and revived taxes on
foreign investors’ bond holdings in January.  The government plans to impose a levy on non-deposit
foreign-currency liabilities held by domestic and foreign banks
beginning Aug. 1, with short-term debt facing higher charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  