-- 
South Africa’s Cope Party  Sees Voter Support Slump After Power Struggle

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-19T14:14:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/south-africa-s-cope-party-sees-voter-support-slump-after-power-struggle.html
The Congress of the People, formed by
dissidents from  South Africa ’s ruling African National Congress,
hemorrhaged support in yesterday’s municipal election following
a power struggle between its two top leaders.  With 9.1 million votes counted, the party garnered 2.6
percent of ballots cast, compared with 7.4 percent in
parliamentary elections in 2009, just four months after its
formation.  Mosiuoa Lekota, a former defense minister and ANC chairman,
and his deputy, Mbhazima Shilowa, an ex-labor union leader and
governor of the central Gauteng province, waged a protracted
battle for the leadership of Cope. Lekota emerged the victor
following several lawsuits that alienated many party followers
and caused the resignation of its parliamentary leader, Mvume
Dandala.  Cope would have “definitely done far better” without the
dispute, Lekota said in an interview in  Pretoria  today. “There
were lots of internal problems. I’ve never had any illusions
that Cope could become a party in one year or two years of the
size that could take government.”  Many of Cope’s leaders are veterans of South Africa’s
struggle for democracy who backed former President Thabo Mbeki’s
failed 2007 bid to win a third term as head of the ANC, losing
out to the current president,  Jacob Zuma . Their credibility
among the black majority gave them hope that the party could
challenge the monopoly on power the  ANC  has held since winning
the nation’s first all-race elections in 1994.  No Surprise  Cope’s loss of support was unsurprising, given the internal
wrangling, Ebrahim Fakir, an analyst at the Johannesburg-based
Electoral Institute for the Sustainability of Democracy in
 Africa , said in a telephone interview.  Some of Cope’s supporters may have switched to the
Democratic Alliance, the main opposition party, which won 22.3
percent of the preliminary vote tally. The party garnered 16.7
percent of votes in 2009.  “The collapse of Cope is the great tragedy of this
election,” DA leader  Helen Zille  said in an interview in
Pretoria today. “We need strong opposition parties if we want
to boost democracy.”  Lekota said he expects a rebound in his party’s fortunes.  “We still have a presence in all of the provinces,” he
said. “We can only grow and go forward.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 