-- 
South African Vote a Two-Party Race as Main Opposition Party Gains Ground

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-20T18:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/south-african-vote-a-two-party-race-as-main-opposition-party-gains-ground.html
South Africa’s Democratic Alliance
consolidated its position as the only serious challenger to the
17-year dominance of the  African National Congress , taking
support away from all its rivals in May 18 municipal elections.  With 13.5 million ballots counted, the ANC had 63 percent
of the vote, while the Democratic Alliance won 24 percent, the
 Independent Electoral Commission  said today in Pretoria, the
capital. That compares with 65.9 percent and 16.6 percent
respectively in the national election in 2009.  None of the other 119 parties that contested the poll
received more than 4 percent of the vote. The  Congress of the
People , formed in 2008 by a group of ANC dissidents, saw its
share plummet to 2.2 percent from 7.4 percent in 2009, while
that of the Inkatha Freedom Party slid to 3.6 percent from 4.6
percent. The DA, backed mainly by white and mixed-race voters,
grew its support in all the main cities.  “We are now moving toward a two-party-dominant system,”
Dirk Kotze, a politics professor at the University of South
Africa, said by telephone from  Pretoria  today. “From the DA’s
point of view, this election was a huge success. There are
certainly concerns in the ANC. This is the second consecutive
election in which they have seen a decline in support.”  Unemployment  The ANC swept to power under  Nelson Mandela  in 1994, and
has won every election since then with more than 60 percent of
the vote. While the party has the loyalty of most of the black
majority because of the leading role it played in vanquishing
all-white rule, the DA has chipped away at its support base amid
rising discontent over a 25 percent unemployment rate and lack
of basic services in many of the country’s 2,700 shanty towns.  The election “has once again demonstrated the power of the
ANC,” President  Jacob Zuma  told thousands of singing and
cheering supporters who celebrated the party’s victory outside
its headquarters in downtown Johannesburg today. “We have
scored a victory that has been forecast by others as a loss.
They were saying the ANC is not going to make it.”  While the ANC kept control of five of the six largest
cities, its share of the vote in  Port Elizabeth  dropped by 15
percentage points to 52 percent, and slid in Johannesburg to 59
percent from 62 percent. The DA secured an outright majority in
Cape Town, where it has been governing in a coalition with the
Independent Democrats since 2006. The Independent Democrats,
which won 10.8 percent in  Cape Town  in 2006, agreed to merge
with the DA before this year’s election.  Cape Town  With 92.3 percent of ballots counted in the city, the DA
had 62.7 percent of the vote, up from 41.9 five years ago. The
ANC’s support dropped to 34.1 percent from 37.9 percent.  “We are succeeding beyond our own expectations,” DA
leader  Helen Zille , 60, told reporters in Pretoria today. “This
election creates a strong platform for growth in 2014” when the
country next holds a national election.  Of 270 of the country’s 278 municipalities where the vote
count had been completed, the ANC won outright control of 201
and the DA 18. The opposition party increased its vote in all
nine provinces, while the ANC’s support weakened in each of
them, except KwaZulu-Natal.  Zuma, 69, used the campaign to highlight the ANC’s role in
bringing about democracy and its achievements since taking
power, including building 2.7 million homes for the poor and
giving 6 million households access to clean water.  No Policy Change  “Where service delivery is not happening or is badly done,
our people have every right to stand up and protest,” Jeff Radebe, the ANC’s head of policy, said in an interview in
Pretoria. “We are not going to make any changes in terms of
policy because our policies are the correct ones. What we are
going to be changing is to speed up service delivery.”  Africa’s biggest economy shed 14,000 jobs in the first
quarter.  South Africa  had a record 111 protests against a lack
of basic services such as water and housing last year, according
to Johannesburg-based Municipal IQ, an independent local
government research group.  “Local government is in many respects dysfunctional,”
said Susan Booysen, a politics professor at the Johannesburg-
based University of Witwatersrand. “The ANC gets the message
that people are unhappy with the level of services. They will
certainly be working very hard to address that.”  The rand has gained 1.2 percent against the dollar since
the elections were held two days ago. The benchmark FTSE/JSE
Africa All Share Index has slid 0.2 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  