-- 
South African Opposition Gains in Local Elections, ANC Keeps Its Cities

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-05-19T21:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/south-african-opposition-gains-in-local-elections-may-not-win-more-cities.html
South Africa ’s opposition Democratic
Alliance increased its share of the vote in yesterday’s
municipal elections, while failing to win control of any more
major cities, partial results show.  With about 11.9 million ballots counted, the  African
National Congress  had 62.8 percent of the vote, while the DA had
24.2 percent, said the  Independent Electoral Commission  in
Pretoria, the capital. That compares with 65.9 percent and 16.6
percent, respectively, in the national election in 2009.  “The ANC should be worried,” Prince Mashele, executive-
director for the Johannesburg-based Centre for Politics and
Research, said in an interview. “We now know the DA is a
permanent feature of the political landscape. This boost will
set them up for the long-term.”  The ANC has won every election since 1994 with more than 60
percent of the vote as many black supporters remain loyal to the
party because of its decades-long fight against apartheid. Now,
rising unemployment in a country where one in four people are
without jobs, and a lack of basic services such as sanitation in
many townships, is beginning to weaken that support.  The DA is unlikely to win control of any major city outside
Cape Town, which it already governs, said Ryan Coetzee, the
party’s elections strategist.  The ANC kept control in  Pretoria ,  Port Elizabeth  and
Ekurhuleni council, with runs towns to the east of Johannesburg,
and led in Johannesburg and Durban. The DA led with a majority
in Cape Town after running it in a coalition since 2006.  ‘Ready for Change’  Winning more than 20 percent of the vote “would mean a big
breakthrough,” DA party leader  Helen Zille  said in an interview
in Pretoria. “It’s great to grow at that rate. It shows that
voters are ready for change.”  The ANC could lose a few percentage points nationwide,
Secretary-General Gwede Mantashe told reporters in Pretoria
today.  “Any loss is a wake-up call for a political party,” he
said. “But we must remember that our traditional voter base
doesn’t always come in great numbers for the local elections.”  Preliminary results showed the ANC leading in Johannesburg
with 56.1 percent of the vote, while the DA had 37.4 percent. In
 Cape Town  the DA had 64.9 percent support to the ANC’s 29.7
percent.  ANC Reaction  With all ballots counted in Nelson Mandela Bay
municipality, which runs the city of Port Elizabeth, the ANC
retained control with 52.1 percent, compared with 40.2 percent
for the DA.  The country has 278 municipalities and districts, down from
283 in the last local government elections in 2006, following
the reconfiguration of voting districts. The DA has already
secured a majority in 17 municipalities, up from the seven it
won outright in 2006.  A decline in the ANC’s support may “sharpen leadership
battles” within Africa’s oldest political movement, Ebrahim
Fakir, an analyst with the Electoral Institute for the
Sustainability of Democracy in  Africa , said in an interview in
Pretoria. “They could also become more populist as they seek to
attract discontented voters.”  The ANC Youth League has been campaigning for the
nationalization of South Africa’s mines, banks and land, arguing
that the country’s assets should benefit the population more
directly.  Youth League  A May 16 survey by polling company Ipsos Markinor showed
the ANC’s support may drop to 59 percent from 66 percent in
2009. The poll of 2,050 likely voters gave the DA 19 percent.  President  Jacob Zuma  has highlighted the ANC’s role in
bringing about democracy and its achievements since taking
power, including building 2.7 million homes for the poor and
giving 6 million households access to clean water.  Africa’s biggest economy shed 14,000 jobs in the first
quarter, pushing the  unemployment rate  to 25 percent, the
highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg. South Africa had a
record 111 protests against a lack of basic services such as
water and housing last year, according to Johannesburg-based
Municipal IQ, an independent local government research group.  “I voted for change,” Lebogang Mohlue, 18, a student,
said yesterday after casting her ballot for the DA in
Johannesburg’s Brixton area. “I want to have a job when I
finish my studies so I voted for a party that can help create
jobs.”  The rand has declined 3.6 percent against the dollar this
year, while the benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index has
fallen 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  