-- 
Spaniards Protest in Madrid Against Austerity

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-19T08:14:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/spaniards-protest-in-madrid-against-austerity.html
Spaniards marched and pitched tents
in central Madrid for a fourth night to protest budget cuts,
bank bailouts and the country’s electoral system ahead of
regional voting on May 22.  Thousands of people last night filled Puerta del Sol, where
demonstrators have used Twitter to attract supporters to a
makeshift camp in the central Madrid plaza, mirroring the use of
social media that fueled the recent protests in Tunisia and
 Egypt . They’ve plastered buildings with posters and slogans and
are holding political discussions throughout the day.  Spain’s Socialist government, which faces regional and
local elections on May 22, turned against its traditional base
to push through the deepest budget cuts in at least three
decades and overhaul labor and pension laws. The collapse of
Spain’s debt-fueled property boom left the country with an
unemployment rate of 21 percent, and 45 percent of young people
out of work.  “The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting
poorer,” Pepa Garcia, a 34 year-old unemployed actress, said in
an interview yesterday at the Puerta del Sol. “People should be
indignant; some banks are getting rescued with our money while
we’re almost drowning.”  Bank Bailouts  Spain ’s bank-rescue fund has committed around 11 billion
euros ($16 billion) to lenders suffering from the collapse of
the real estate market. Savings banks need another 14 billion
euros to meet new  capital requirements , the Bank of Spain
estimates. The government is pushing lenders to raise those
funds from private investors, with the national rescue facility
known as FROB acting as a backstop.  The protest movement behind the march says it doesn’t
represent any political party, wants politicians facing
corruption charges to be barred from running for election and
for the Senate, the upper house of Parliament, to be scrapped,
according to a manifesto hanging up in the square, one of
 Madrid ’s best-known landmarks. It also seeks changes to the
voting system to make it more representative and less dominated
by the two main parties, said Noelia Moreno, a spokeswoman for
the group.  “The management of the crisis has been directed by the
markets, the governments have sold out and the measures don’t
solve the problems of the people,” Moreno, 29, who is
unemployed, said in an interview yesterday in Sol.  Defense Minister Carme Chacon, who polls suggest may lead
the Socialists into next year’s general election after Prime
Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero stands down, said she is
“listening” to the protesters’ demands. Some of their
proposals are “not only reasonable but also possible,” she
said in comments carried by state broadcaster TVE.  A leadership battle within the Socialists party will start
after the May 22 vote, with Chacon and Deputy Prime Minister
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba seen as favorites to succeed Zapatero,
who said last month he wouldn’t seek a third term.  Regional Vote  The Socialists are set to suffer a setback in most of the
regional elections, polls show. The party will be beaten in the
region of Castilla-La Mancha, which it has controlled for three
decades, and may lose the city of Barcelona for the first time
since Spain’s return to democracy in 1975, according to a poll
by the state-run Center for Sociological Research on May 5.  Zapatero has angered traditional supporters by slashing
public wages, freezing pensions and seeking to change wage-
bargaining rules as part of his efforts to cut the euro-region’s
third-largest budget deficit and shield the Spanish economy from
the sovereign debt crisis. Even as the economy returns to growth
after a three-year slump, Spain is home to almost a third of the
euro region’s unemployed and the jobless rate among young people
is more than twice the region’s average.  “If you don’t let us dream, we won’t let you sleep,”
read one of the slogans stuck to the metro in the Puerta del
Sol.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  