-- 
Sprint Nextel Wants States to Review AT&T’s Proposed T-Mobile Purchase

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   G r e g   B e n s i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-20T20:17:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/sprint-wants-states-to-review-at-t-s-proposed-t-mobile-deal-1-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  said it wants
state agencies in  California  and  West Virginia  to follow
 Louisiana  in scrutinizing  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase of T-
Mobile USA Inc.  Third-largest U.S. wireless carrier Sprint filed a request
with the California Public Utilities Commission yesterday
requesting an investigation into the $39 billion transaction,
the company said in an e-mail.  “This transaction is bad for consumers and bad for the
economy, and we look forward to having some regulatory sunshine
cast upon it,”  John Taylor , a spokesman for Overland Park,
Kansas-based Sprint, said in an interview. California and West
Virginia should open reviews, as Louisiana has, he said.  On May 17, the Louisiana Public Service Commission voted 4-
1 to open an inquiry, Commissioner Foster Campbell said in a
phone interview yesterday.  “It’s too big a deal to let it go through without getting
everybody’s questions answered, and making sure this is a good
deal for the consumer,” said Campbell, a Democrat.  The deal needs approval from two U.S. agencies, the  Justice
Department  and the Federal Communications Commission.  States can keep companies from transferring assets within
their borders, a possibility that can lead to concessions by
companies,  Rebecca Arbogast , a Washington-based analyst with
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., said in an e-mail. States haven’t blocked
past deals, she said.  Louisiana, West Virginia  “Sprint’s letter to the CPUC merely reiterates
substantially the same unfounded accusations it has been
peddling,” Margaret Boles, a Washington-based AT&T spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. “We’re confident that the FCC and DOJ, after
a full review of the facts, will determine that this transaction
will be good for consumers, for workers, and for the economy.”  Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal, a Republican, in a letter
yesterday told the FCC that he supports the merger because it
will add mobile high-speed Internet capacity in the state.  Sprint on May 2 asked the West Virginia Public Service
Commission to review the deal. AT&T in a May 12 filing asked the
agency to reject that request, saying Sprint offers limited
service in the state.  AT&T on March 20 proposed buying  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile in a deal that would combine the second- and fourth-
largest carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of No. 1
Verizon Wireless.  Sprint added 14 cents, or 2.6 percent to $5.47 at 4 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading and has gained 29
percent this year. AT&T lost 8 cents to $31.32. The shares are
up 6.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Bensinger in New York at 
 gbensinger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  