-- 
Strauss-Kahn Quits IMF, Succession Begins

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-19T15:17:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/strauss-kahn-starts-succession-fight-as-europe-fends-off-emerging-nations.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  resigned as
the 10th leader of the  International Monetary Fund , kicking off
a contest for his successor as Europeans seek to retain the job
amid a lack of unity among emerging-market nations.  “I want to devote all my strength, all my time, and all my
energy to proving my innocence,” Strauss-Kahn said in a
statement released by the Washington-based IMF four days after
his arrest on sexual-assault charges. The fund said it will
comment “in the near future” on the succession. Strauss-Kahn,
62, had been leading polls for France’s 2012 presidential
election.  European officials, who have picked IMF heads for 65 years
under a deal that also gives the U.S. the lock on the top World
Bank post, moved to retain the privilege, with Sweden backing
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde .  Russia  and South
Africa have called for an emerging-market candidate, while some
Asian policy makers suggested someone from their region.  “Time is of the essence,” said Julie Chon, a senior
fellow at the Washington-based Atlantic Council and former
adviser to the U.S. Senate Banking Committee. “The longer the
IMF allows the specter of uncertainty to hang over its
leadership, the more exposed it becomes to the jittery actions
of sovereign debt and foreign-exchange traders who have been
speculating on what the leadership vacuum means for their
portfolios.”  Lipsky in Charge  The Washington-based lender that approved a record $91.7
billion in emergency loans last year and provides a third of the
euro-region’s bailout packages said  John Lipsky , the No. 2
official at the fund, remains as acting leader, according to its
statement late yesterday. Lipsky, a former chief economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., is scheduled to retire in August.  “John Lipsky will provide able and experienced leadership
to the fund at this critical time for the global economy,” U.S.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said in a statement. “We
want to see an open process that leads to a prompt succession
for the fund’s new managing director.”  Strauss-Kahn’s five-year term had 17 months remaining. In
past successions, incoming managing directors were appointed to
fresh five-year tenures.  Under the IMF’s rules, its executive board selects the
managing director and any member can make a nomination. Prior to
appointing Strauss-Kahn in 2007, the board said candidates must
have a “distinguished record in economic policy making at
senior levels” and “demonstrated the managerial and diplomatic
skills needed to lead a global institution.”  Meeting Candidates  The 2007 nomination period ran from early July to the end
of August. The board then met with each candidate and sought to
make its choice through consensus rather than majority vote. The
appointment was made three months to the date after the
resignation of Rodrigo de Rato.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters today that
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis “speaks for a European
candidate” and that a decision must be made swiftly. She
declined to specify who she would prefer to get the job.  Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said he can’t
confirm a report in Handelsblatt newspaper today that the German
government is preparing to throw its support behind Lagarde.  “I would argue that Christine Lagarde has outstanding
credentials,” Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Her sex is also an
“advantage” since “half of the world has not been represented
as managing director.”  Must Be European  Lagarde, 55, declined to comment on her potential candidacy
when questioned by reporters in Paris today. She said that any
successor to Strauss-Kahn should come from  Europe .  Lagarde is the favorite for the job, according to odds at
London-based bookmaker William Hill Plc. It is offering six
pounds ($9.71) for every four pounds bet that Lagarde will be
the next IMF head, down from odds of 20-1 previously.  Nout Wellink, a European Central Bank Governing Council
member, told the Dutch talk show Knevel & Van den Brink late
last night: “I know a fantastic candidate, that’s Jean-Claude Trichet,” whose term as ECB president ends in October.  Japan , which has the second-biggest share of voting power
at the IMF with 6.25 percent, has yet to decide on its stance,
Tetsuro Fukuyama, the government’s deputy chief cabinet
secretary, told reporters in  Tokyo  today.  The U.S., which has the largest share of votes, at 16.8
percent, has also given no indication of a preference.  Choice on Merit  World Bank President Robert Zoellick said he is “sure”
that the choice of a new managing director will be made on the
basis of merit.  “One thing I would underscore is you have a very strong
IMF staff,” he told reporters today in  Washington .  South African and Russian officials said yesterday the
next head should come from an emerging economy. Trevor Manuel,
head of  South Africa ’s National Planning Commission, is “highly
respected in the world,” Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said
of his predecessor in an interview in Pretoria.  Russian central bank Deputy Chairman Sergei Shvetsov said a
developing country should be given the chance to run the IMF to
better reflect the role of those economies in global trade.
South Korea’s central bank governor made similar remarks before
the announcement late yesterday that Strauss-Kahn would resign.  “A new brand of leadership will send a positive signal
that the IMF is indeed responsive to the changing world,”
Philippine Finance Secretary Cesar Purisima said in a mobile-
phone text in response to questions. “Wherein  Asia  increasingly
plays a major role as a growth driver of the global economy,
there is no time more fitting than now for an Asian leader to
take the helm.”  Thai Candidate  Thai Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said in an
interview today that Asia has “good candidates” for the role.
 Singapore  Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam is “one of
the most capable, technically sound, well rounded and
experienced finance ministers in the world,” he said. He
described former Indonesian Finance Minister  Sri Mulyani Indrawati  as “capable.”  “So far the leader of IMF is always from Europe,”
Indonesia’s current finance minister,  Agus Martowardojo , told
reporters today in Jakarta. “We would welcome an opening to a
candidate from Asia.”  Morris Goldstein, a fellow at the Peterson Institute for
International Economics in Washington who was an IMF official
for 24 years, said earlier this week that potential emerging-
market candidates include Singapore’s Shanmugaratnam, former
Turkish Economic Minister Kemal Dervis and  India ’s  Montek Singh Ahluwalia , a top aide to the prime minister.  Turkey, Kazakhstan  Turkish Finance Minister Mehmet Simsek said there’s no
reason it can’t be him. Kazakh Prime Minister Karim Massimov
wrote on his Twitter account today that his government will
nominate central bank Chairman Grigori Marchenko for the post.  “The most important thing is to move decisively to appoint
the best qualified person for the job,” Australian Treasurer
Wayne Swan said through a spokesman. “Uncertainty around a new
managing director of the IMF is not in the interests of the
global economy or the institution itself.”  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
arrested May 14 on accusations of sexually assaulting a hotel
maid and has been held at  New York ’s Rikers Island jail complex
since he was ordered held in custody at his arraignment May 16.
He is asking a second judge to release him on bail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  