-- 
Strauss-Kahn May Have Spent Last Night in Jail as $1 Million Bail Granted

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d ,   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-20T13:31:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/strauss-kahn-granted-bail-pending-trial-in-hotel-maid-sexual-assault-case.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief charged with sexually
assaulting and attempting to rape a hotel housekeeper, may have
spent his last night in jail on Rikers Island after a judge said
he can go free on bail while awaiting trial.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, who was granted bail yesterday after his
fifth night in custody, will be released when he meets the
requirements set by the court, said William Taylor, his lawyer.
Taylor said he thought Strauss-Kahn would be able to leave the
prison today.  The bail conditions imposed by New York state Supreme Court
Justice Michael Obus include posting $1 million in cash and a
$5 million insurance bond. He must wear an electronic monitor
and have an armed guard at all times. He won’t be able to leave
his residence except for legal, medical and religious purposes.  “Money alone is not going to be sufficient to give us the
assurance we need to have,” Obus said at yesterday’s bail
hearing in Manhattan. “Primarily these other conditions that I
am setting will simply make it impossible for the defendant to
leave, which is really what I am concerned with.”  Strauss-Kahn was taken into custody May 14 on an Air France
flight minutes before it was scheduled to leave  John F. Kennedy
International Airport . Two days later, the French national was
remanded to Rikers Island, New York’s main jail complex, after a
judge agreed with prosecutors that he might flee.  Indictment  In the indictment filed yesterday, Strauss-Kahn is charged
with seven counts including criminal sex acts, attempted rape,
sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible touching. While
he has denied the accusations, he hasn’t entered a formal plea
to any of the charges. He’s scheduled to be arraigned on the
indictment on June 6.  Strauss-Kahn is accused of attacking a housekeeper at the
Sofitel hotel in Midtown Manhattan on May 14. He allegedly
closed the door of the room to keep the woman from leaving,
grabbed her breasts and tried to pull down her pantyhose,
according to court papers. He also forced her to perform oral
sex, prosecutors said. The maid escaped and later picked
Strauss-Kahn out of a lineup, police said.  “Under American law, these are extremely serious
charges,”  Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. told
reporters after yesterday’s hearing. “He will receive all the
protection available in our justice system.”  Prosecutors said Strauss-Kahn faces as long as 25 years in
prison if convicted on the most serious charges.  Accuser ‘Concerned’  Jeffrey Shapiro, a lawyer for Strauss-Kahn’s accuser, who
hasn’t been publicly identified, didn’t return a call seeking
comment after the bail ruling. Earlier yesterday, he said his
client was “very concerned about the idea that this man would
be free.”  At the hearing, Taylor said his client would live with his
wife, Anne Sinclair, in New York under video surveillance and
armed guard. Under the terms set out, Strauss-Kahn would have a
limited number of visitors. Sinclair rented an apartment in
Manhattan where she and her husband would stay, the defense told
the judge.  Strauss-Kahn has been married for more than 10 years to
Sinclair, a French television journalist. She and Strauss-Kahn’s
daughter, Camille Strauss-Kahn, attended yesterday’s hearing and
left the courthouse without speaking to the throng of reporters
outside.  Living in  Washington   Strauss-Kahn and his wife have lived in Washington since
November 2007, when he was named managing director of the IMF,
according to a court filing.  He informed the executive board of the IMF of his intention
to resign as managing director effective immediately, the IMF
said in a  statement  dated May 18.  Prosecutors opposed the bail application, saying that
France doesn’t extradite its citizens. They also argued that
Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, has extensive
contacts and resources.  “The proof against him is substantial,” Assistant
District Attorney John McConnell said at yesterday’s hearing.
“It is continuing to grow every day.”  Defense lawyers said Strauss-Kahn was prepared to surrender
all his travel documents and pledged not to fight extradition.  “The idea that he would attempt to live the rest of his
life as an accused sex offender in  France , as a fugitive, is
ridiculous,” Taylor said.  Security Company  According to a proposal prepared by  Stroz Friedberg , a
private security company, and submitted by the defense, Strauss-
Kahn would wear a personal tracking device on his ankle and his
movements would be monitored 24 hours a day. The company said it
would investigate all alarms from the device. The company said
it would notify authorities of any suspicious activity or
attempt to flee.  Taylor said the defense had retained Stroz Friedberg, which
was recommended of the district attorney’s office. The company
 monitored  the home detention of  Bernard Madoff  before he went to
prison for running a  Ponzi scheme .  Strauss-Kahn would be accompanied by Stroz Friedberg for
court-authorized travel. The company would report on his
activities, visitors and travel as required by the court.  McConnell said the monitoring could cost more than $200,000
a month. He also said a single guard may not be enough.  “We are very relieved and very happy and now we can focus
on some other aspects of the case,” Taylor told reporters after
yesterday’s hearing.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of  New York  (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld at Manhattan Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  