-- 
Make Strauss-Kahn Succession Quick: Geithner

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-05-19T20:07:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/strauss-kahn-succession-process-should-be-quick-treasury-s-geithner-says.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called for the quick appointment of a successor to
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn  to head the  International Monetary Fund 
as European governments rallied to support French Finance
Minister Christine Lagarde.  “We want to see an open process that leads to a prompt
succession,” Geithner said in a statement today.  John Lipsky ,
the Washington-based IMF’s acting managing director, “will
provide able and experienced leadership to the fund at this
critical time for the global economy,” Geithner said.  European officials, who have picked IMF heads for 65 years
under a deal that also gives the U.S. control over the top World
Bank post, moved to retain the privilege. Italy and  Sweden 
backed Lagarde and Handelsblatt newspaper reported that the
German government is preparing to support her. Emerging-market
nations haven’t unified behind one candidate.  “I would argue that Christine Lagarde has outstanding
credentials,” Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said in a
Bloomberg Television interview today. Her gender is an
“advantage” since “half of the world has not been represented
as managing director” of the IMF, Borg said.  Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  said Lagarde would
be “an excellent choice” as Europe’s candidate, the Italian
government said in an e-mailed statement today. Berlusconi said
it’s “fundamental” that Europe should reach a common position
on who the candidate should be as soon as possible, the
statement said.  Resignation  Strauss-Kahn resigned as the 10th leader of the IMF four
days after his arrest in New York on sexual-assault charges.  “I want to devote all my strength, all my time and all my
energy to proving my innocence,” Strauss-Kahn said in a
statement by the Washington-based IMF. The fund said it will
comment “in the near future” on the succession. Strauss-Kahn,
62, had been leading in polls for  France ’s 2012 presidential
election.  Strauss-Kahn was indicted today on two counts of a criminal
sex act in the first degree; one count of attempted rape in the
first degree; one count of sexual abuse in the first degree;
unlawful imprisonment in the second degree; sexual abuse in the
third degree; and forcible touching.  Strauss-Kahn, a former French finance minister, was
arrested May 14 on accusations of sexually assaulting a hotel
maid and has been at  New York ’s Rikers Island jail complex since
he was ordered held in custody at his arraignment May 16. He was
granted bail today pending trial.  Quick Decision  European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  urged a quick
decision on a new IMF leader, saying Strauss-Kahn’s arrest has
hurt efforts to tackle  Greece ’s financial crisis.  “We can’t lose time,”  Van Rompuy  told a conference today
in Brussels. “We are feeling a lack of leadership in solving
the Greek crisis.”  The IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in emergency loans
last year and provides a third of the euro-region’s bailout
packages. Lipsky, 64, the No. 2 official at the fund, will
remain acting leader, the fund said in a statement yesterday.
Lipsky, a former chief economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , is
scheduled to retire in August.  Strauss-Kahn’s five-year term had 17 months remaining. In
past successions, managing directors were appointed to fresh
five-year tenures.  IMF Rules  Under the IMF’s rules, its executive board selects the
managing director and any member can make a nomination. Prior to
appointing Strauss-Kahn in 2007, the board said candidates must
have a “distinguished record in economic policy-making at
senior levels” and “demonstrated the managerial and diplomatic
skills needed to lead a global institution.”  The 2007 nomination period ran from early July to the end
of August. The board then met with each candidate and sought to
make its choice through consensus rather than majority vote. The
appointment was made three months to the date after the
resignation of Rodrigo de Rato.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis “speaks for a European
candidate” to head the IMF and that a decision must be made
swiftly. She declined to specify a preference for the job.  Merkel’s chief spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said he can’t
confirm the Handelsblatt report that the German government is
preparing to throw its support behind Lagarde.  Must Be European  Lagarde, 55, declined to comment on her potential candidacy
when questioned by reporters in Paris today. She said that the
successor to Strauss-Kahn should come from Europe.  Writing in Time magazine in 2009, Geithner said Lagarde had
shown “what it takes to break down barriers” by becoming the
first female Group of Seven finance minister and that he admired
her “lightning-quick wit, genuine warmth and ability to bridge
divides while remaining fiercely loyal to French interests.”  “Rarely do the names Descartes and Voltaire emerge during
a debate on global economic policy. But when they do, it often
means  Christine Lagarde  is using philosophy to drive home a
sophisticated point about the markets,” Geithner wrote.  Europe is likely to succeed in getting Lagarde the job as
developing nations are too divided to back a single candidate,
said  Nouriel Roubini .  “The Europeans are going to be united in wanting a
European, and I think the European candidate is going to be
Christine Lagarde,” Roubini, an economist who predicted the
recent global financial crisis, said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Last Word” with  Andrea Catherwood 
today.  The IMF will likely name another European to the post, a
Canadian government official said on the condition of anonymity
because he isn’t authorized to discuss the subject publicly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  