-- 
Strauss-Kahn ‘Perp Walk,’ Naming Victim Show Divide in France-U.S. Norms

-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-05-19T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/strauss-kahn-perp-walk-naming-victim-show-divide-in-france-u-s-norms.html
The  New York  “perp walk” of
 Dominique Strauss-Kahn , charged with sexually assaulting a hotel
maid, underscores the differences in U.S. and French norms that
are causing misunderstandings between the two countries.  Images of a haggard Strauss-Kahn in handcuffs being led
away by police officers created an uproar in France. Meanwhile,
the name of the alleged victim was published in French
newspapers, something the mainstream U.S. press has refrained
from doing to preserve her privacy.  “There are certain cultural mores which plainly differ
between France and the U.S.,” said Floyd Abrams, a partner at
Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP in New York. In the U.S., “after
someone is arrested, he is treated as a public person so there is
not the view of it being a violation of privacy.”  Strauss-Kahn, 62, until this week the head of the
 International Monetary Fund  and a leading French presidential
contender, was granted bail yesterday after being held at New
York’s Rikers Island jail complex following his arraignment May
16 on charges he attempted to rape a hotel maid in  Manhattan . He
has denied the charges.  French television stations, which initially ran footage of
the handcuffed, unshaven Strauss-Kahn being led to his
arraignment -- popularly known to New Yorkers as the perp walk-
- were asked by the  Conseil Superieur de l’Audiovisuel , the
broadcast authority, to exercise “the greatest restraint” in
showing the images.  Former Culture Minister Jack Lang called the coverage a
“lynching.” Former Justice Minister Elisabeth Guigou called it
“absolutely shocking.” Guigou was behind a 2000 law that bars
French media from showing suspects in handcuffs, on grounds that
it undermines their presumption of innocence.  American Way  That’s not how it’s seen in America.  “The perp walk is a pretty much honored part of the legal
process,” said Robert Balin, a partner with Davis Wright
Tremaine LLP in New York. “In the U.S., it is serving the
public interest for the public to be seeing the beginning of the
judicial process and serves as a deterrent effect.”  For the U.S., the public’s right to know about an arrest is
paramount, while in  France  the privacy -- even of a criminal
suspect -- takes precedence.  “For the moment, the French media has been very
restrained” in avoiding saying or writing anything to imply
guilt, said Dominique de Leusse de Syon, a member of Strauss-
Kahn’s legal team. “The problem is the images, whether they
convey Mr. Strauss-Kahn as guilty.”  Naming the Victim  Strauss-Kahn’s indictment, made public yesterday, has seven
counts including criminal sex act; attempted rape; sexual abuse;
unlawful imprisonment; and forcible touching. He is scheduled to
be arraigned in New York on June 6. Defense lawyers said
Strauss-Kahn will plead not guilty.  France’s ban on showing perp walks might not survive a
challenge at the  European Court  of Human Rights, said Christophe
Bigot, a French media lawyer.  “The law is completely against freedom of the press,” he
said. While there have been convictions in France under the law,
no one so far has taken a challenge to Human Rights Court in
Strasbourg, France.  Meanwhile, some French media have named Strauss-Kahn’s
accuser. U.S. media have only gone as far as identifying her as
a 32-year-old immigrant from  Guinea  who goes by Ophelia, which
is not her real name.  The U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that the press can’t be
barred from printing the name of rape victims, although states
have shield laws protecting them.  Protecting Victims  Hiding their name has a long history in American
journalism, said Sandra Baron, executive director of the Media
Law Resource Center in New York.  “Sexual abuse victims will be far more reluctant to come
forward and make the claim if they know their identity will be
made known to the community at large,” she said. “In an effort
to protect the victims, and to encourage their coming forward
and reporting criminal sexual assaults, the authorities and the
press have not identified them, for the most part.”  Le Figaro, France’s leading morning newspaper, named the
alleged victim only after other media had done the same, said
Philippe Gelie, editor-in-chief and former Washington bureau
chief.  “It’s something that we did struggle with, and it’s
something we don’t normally do, but we figured it wouldn’t harm
her to have her name in a French newspaper,” he said. “Our
paper is not that well distributed in New York.”  Public Interest  Afternoon newspaper Le Monde and news magazine Le Nouvel
Observateur didn’t return calls seeking comment on why they
chose to publish her full name. Newspaper Liberation said in
yesterday’s issue that it wouldn’t divulge her name.  “Some in the press have contended that it is unfair to the
accused to identify him or her, but not to allow public exposure
of the accuser,” Baron said.  In a case like this where Balin says “the public interest
is exceedingly strong,” he and Abrams agree it is only a matter
of time before her name and photo appear in major U.S. press
outlets.  “Surely we’ll be seeing a picture of her soon,” said
Abrams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
5068 or  gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 