-- 
Indictment Filed Against Dominique Strauss-Kahn: Judge

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-05-19T19:40:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/strauss-kahn-said-to-be-moved-to-courthouse-amid-second-request-for-bail.html
A  Manhattan  judge said he may decide
today whether to grant bail to  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  and
announced that the former International Monetary Fund chief, who
is accused of sexual assault, has been indicted.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Michael Obus called
for a brief recess to consider the application. Obus said the
key point in deciding to grant bail was whether Strauss-Kahn’s
appearance in court could be guaranteed.  “The apparent strength of the people’s case is a bail
consideration,” Obus said.  Strauss-Kahn was indicted today on seven counts including
criminal sex act; attempted rape; sexual abuse; unlawful
imprisonment; and forcible touching.  Strauss-Kahn “intentionally and for no legitimate purpose
forcibly touched the sexual and other intimate parts of an
individual known to the grand jury, for the purpose of
degrading and abusing said individual and for the purpose of
gratifying the defendant’s sexual desire,” according to the
indictment.  McConnell said that prosecutors oppose bail for Strauss-
Kahn.  “Our position is there is no bail package at this time
that would ensure his return,” McConnell said. “This court
must be satisfied that he will come back...His own conduct in
this case has shown a propensity for impulsive criminal
conduct.”  Rikers Island  Strauss-Kahn, who until yesterday was head of the
 International Monetary Fund , was transported from Rikers Island,
New York’s main jail complex.  Strauss-Kahn was arrested May 14 and sent to Rikers Island
May 16 after a judge deemed him a flight risk. He’s scheduled to
make another request to stay free pending trial before Obus.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, informed the Executive Board of the IMF
of his intention to resign as managing director effective
immediately, the IMF said in a  statement  dated yesterday.  “I want to say that I deny with the greatest possible
firmness all of the allegations that have been made against
me,” Strauss-Kahn said in a letter included in the IMF
statement.  At the hearing today, William Taylor, a lawyer for Strauss-
Kahn, said that as part of his bail proposal, his client would
live with his wife in  New York .  Home Detention  His bail proposal includes 24-hour home detention in
Manhattan with electronic monitoring, in addition to posting $1
million in cash, according to court filings. He previously
surrendered his French passport to the district attorney’s
office. His so-called laissez-passer travel document issued by
the  United Nations  will be given to his lawyers, who will turn
it over to prosecutors, according to the filing.  In Strauss-Kahn’s request for bail, his lawyers said his
family has ties in the U.S.  “Mr. Strauss-Kahn is a loving husband and father and a
highly regarded international diplomat, lawyer, politician,
economist and professor with no prior criminal record,” they
said.  He has been married for more than 10 years to Anne Sinclair, who was born in New York, according to court filings.
She completed part of her secondary schooling in the U.S.  The couple has lived in  Washington  since November 2007,
when he was named managing director of the IMF, according to the
filing. A copy of a deed in Sinclair’s name to a Georgetown home
bought in 2007 for $4 million was included in yesterday’s
filing.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 1225782, Criminal Court
of the City of New York (New York County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York Criminal Court at 
 kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  