-- 
Swiss Investor Sentiment Declines, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-05-19T15:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/swiss-investor-confidence-declines-first-time-in-three-months-on-outlook.html
(Corrects number of monthly drops in first paragraph.)  Swiss investor confidence dropped for
the first time in four months in May as a worsening European
debt crisis and an appreciating franc clouded the economic
growth outlook.  An index of investor and analyst expectations that aim to
predict economic developments six months in advance fell to
minus 11.5 from 8.8 in April, the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim,  Germany , and Zurich-based  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said in an e-mailed statement today. The survey
was conducted May 10-16.  Switzerland ’s economy is showing some signs of slowdown as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and a stronger franc threaten to
undermine exports. Manufacturing growth weakened in April. Swiss
central bank President Philipp Hildebrand said on April 29 that
while a renewed economic recession seems “unlikely,”
“downside risks” to growth remain “substantial.”  The indicator reflects “expectations that economic
momentum in Switzerland will lose steam relative to the current
levels on a six-month horizon,” Credit Suisse said in the
statement. Still, “it should be taken into consideration that
the assessment of the prevailing economic picture continues to
hover at a very high plateau.”  A gauge measuring confidence in the current economic
environment rose to 68.6 in May from 61.8 in the previous month,
today’s statement showed. Sixty-nine percent of participants
considered the current climate to be “good.”  German Confidence  Adding to signs of cooling growth, Swiss  consumer
confidence  unexpectedly worsened in April, as households grew
less optimistic about the possibility to save money. The central
bank forecasts the economy to expand about 2 percent this year,
down from 2.6 percent in 2010.  The franc’s ascent against the euro and the dollar this
year is threatening to curb exports by making goods less
competitive abroad as European growth weakens. In Germany,
Europe’s largest economy, investor confidence dropped for a
third straight month in May after Europe’s debt crisis worsened
on increasing concern that  Greece  may need a debt restructuring.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , Switzerland’s largest watchmaker, lost
about 150 million francs ($170 million) in revenue in the first
quarter because of the strong franc, Chief Executive Officer
Nick Hayek told NZZ am Sonntag on April 10.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ,
the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, said last month the
currency hurt first-quarter sales.  Forty-three percent of analysts surveyed forecast the franc
to weaken against the euro over the coming six months, while 46
percent projected the currency to depreciate versus the dollar
over that period.  The  Swiss National Bank  is scheduled to hold its next
monetary policy assessment on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  