-- 
U.K. Retail Sales Rise More Than Forecast on Warm Weather

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-05-19T08:41:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-k-retail-sales-rise-more-than-forecast-on-warm-weather-royal-wedding.html
U.K. retail sales rose more than
economists forecast in April as warm weather and the extra bank
holiday for the Royal Wedding boosted  consumer spending .  Sales including auto fuel climbed 1.1 percent from March,
when they rose a revised 0.3 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said today in London. The increase was the biggest
for an April since 2002 and exceeded the 0.8 percent median
forecast of 20 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. From a
year earlier, sales increased 2.8 percent.  Britons spent more during two consecutive holiday weekends
at the end of April to mark Easter and the wedding of  Prince
William  and  Kate Middleton . The Bank of England held its key
interest rate at a record low this month on concern that an
increase in borrowing costs would dent spending and undermine
the recovery, minutes of the decision yesterday showed.  “We got a boost last month from Easter and the wedding,
but we’re going to treat it as a one-off,” said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “If we get back to a
sluggish trend for consumers and investment, rates could be on
hold past November.”  The pound pared its loss against the dollar after the data
were published. It traded at $1.6175 as of 9:31 a.m. in London,
little changed on the day.  Food Sales  Excluding fuel, sales rose 1.2 percent in April from the
previous month and were up 2.7 percent on the year, the
statistics office said. Food sales jumped 2.2 percent on the
month, the most since May 2008, clothing sales increased 3.2
percent and sales at household-goods stores rose 1.5 percent.  The statistics office said it was an “unusual month,”
citing the impact of the warmest April on record, the extra bank
holiday and the wedding on April 29.  An index of  consumer confidence  fell to 43 in April from 45
in March,  Nationwide Building Society  said today. A measure of
shoppers’ willingness to spend on household goods and major
purchases fell 5 points to 62.  Mothercare Plc (MTC) , a retailer of clothes for children and
pregnant women, said yesterday it will shut more than a quarter
of its U.K. stores and expand overseas after full-year profit
fell 72 percent. Alliance Boots Holdings Ltd., owner of the
largest U.K. drugstore chain, said May 16 it is “planning for
consumer demand to be subdued” over the coming year.  “An increase in  bank rate  in current circumstances could
adversely affect consumer confidence, leading to an exaggerated
impact on both spending and firms’ perceptions of their desired
productive capacity,” the majority of the  Bank of England ’s
Monetary Policy Committee said yesterday.  BOE Rate  The central bank held the key rate at 0.5 percent this
month, even as the fastest inflation in more than two years
squeezes household finances. Consumer prices rose an annual 4.5
percent in April, the fastest since October 2008.  The retail sales deflator, a measure of changes in shop
prices, rose to 3.7 percent in April from 3.4 percent in March,
the statistics office said. Excluding auto fuel, the deflator
rose to 2.7 percent, the highest since June 1996, from 1.9
percent. The deflator for food sales jumped to 4.6 percent from
4.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  