-- 
U.K. Banks Will Be Made to Disclose More Data, BOE’s Bailey Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-19T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-k-banks-will-be-made-to-disclose-more-data-boe-s-bailey-says.html
U.K. banks will be made to publish
more detailed information about their activities to encourage
greater market discipline, according to the future deputy head
of the British regulator tasked with overseeing lenders.  “We recognise that management, shareholders, creditors and
auditors all play an important role in managing prudential
risk,” Andrew Bailey, who will become the deputy chief
executive of the Bank of England’s planned Prudential Regulation
Authority, said in prepared remarks for a speech in  London 
today. “To encourage more market discipline, the PRA will seek
to publish some regulatory returns, though it will not go so far
as to disclose its own supervisory judgments about firms.”  Governments around the world are seeking to provide
standard systems for coping with failing banks after the global
financial crisis. Bailey said the PRA will regulate with the aim
that all lenders it oversees can fail or be closed in an
“orderly manner with minimal impact” on the financial system.  “Maintaining financial stability does not mean that we
have an industry in which no one can fail,” Bailey said in the
speech, to be made at a conference hosted by the  Financial
Services Authority  and the  Bank of England . “A financial
services industry in which failure is not possible is unlikely
to be able to serve the needs of the economy effectively.”  Bailey last month joined the  Financial Services Authority 
as the deputy head of its Prudential Business Unit, as well as
becoming director of the organization’s division overseeing U.K.
lenders. In 2013, he will become the deputy head of the PRA, the
agency being set up to regulate all deposit-taking institutions,
insurers and investment banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  