-- 
Slide in U.S. Consumer Confidence Ends as Gas Falls, Bloomberg Index Shows

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-26T13:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-consumer-confidence-declines-to-nine-month-low-bloomberg-index-shows.html
A monthlong slide in U.S. consumer
confidence ended last week as gasoline prices retreated.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index rose to minus 48.4 in
the period to May 22 from a nine-month low of minus 49.4 the
prior week. Readings of minus 40 or less are generally
associated with recessions and their aftermaths, the report
said.  “The combination of a difficult labor market, falling
housing prices and rising inflation has given the consumer a
case of the blues that will not likely fade any time soon,”
said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New
York .  A 12-cent decline in gasoline prices last week, the biggest
drop since November 2008, may limit further strains on sentiment
and help underpin consumer spending, which makes up 70 percent
of the economy. At the same time, gains in wages have failed to
keep up with the jump in prices, giving Americans little reason
to cheer.  The rise in the comfort gauge last week was within the
survey’s margin of error of 3 percentage points.  Other reports today showed the economy grew less than
forecast in the first quarter, and the number of Americans
filing first-time applications for  unemployment benefits 
unexpectedly increased last week.  Gross domestic product expanded at a 1.8 percent annual
rate, reflecting a smaller gain in  consumer spending  than
previously calculated. Growth was the same as estimated last
month by the Commerce Department and compared with a 2.2 percent
increase forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Claims Rise  Jobless claims increased by 10,000 to 424,000 in the week
ended May 21, according to the Labor Department. Economists had
predicted a drop to 404,000.  Two of the three components of the Bloomberg comfort index
gained last week, the figures showed.  The personal-finances gauge rose to minus 13.7 from minus
16.5 the previous week. The 2.8 percentage-point increase, the
biggest improvement in two months, failed to make up for ground
lost over the prior four weeks.  The buying-climate index increased to minus 55.8 from minus
56.1 the previous week.  A gauge of Americans’ views of the economy was minus 75.7,
little changed from the previous week’s minus 75.6.  “The biggest concerns that I have on an ongoing basis are
anything that impacts the consumer’s ability to buy
discretionary items: gas, jobs,” said Ken Hicks, chief
executive officer of  Foot Locker Inc. (FL) , the largest U.S. athletic
shoe store chain. “As those stay up, that is a challenge.”  The two-year extension of Bush-era tax cuts President
Barack Obama signed into law in December has helped consumers
cope with higher food and energy costs, Hicks said during a May
20 conference call with analysts.  Gasoline Price  The average price of a gallon of regular gasoline
nationally dropped to $3.84 on May 22, down from $3.96 seven
days earlier, according to AAA, the nation’s largest auto club.  “Having prices go down undeniably is better than their
going up,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research Associates
LLC in New York, which compiles the index for Bloomberg, said in
a statement. “There may be relief in sight.”  Nonetheless, Langer said fuel prices were the highest on
record during the month of May going back to 1990, when the U.S.
Department of Energy began keeping record.  A housing market struggling to stabilize is also weighing
on consumers’ spirits as home values fall alongside an
 unemployment rate  that indicates more homeowners may risk
defaulting on their mortgage payments.  Unemployment Rate  The jobless rate climbed in April for the first time in
five months, rising to 9 percent. It averaged 5.3 percent during
the expansion that ended in December 2007.  Home prices  dropped 5.5 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the biggest decline in almost two years, as sales
of discounted foreclosures undermined real estate values, the
Washington-based Federal Housing Finance Agency said yesterday.  The Bloomberg comfort index for consumers in the South fell
for the fifth-consecutive week to the lowest level this year.
The index remained most negative in the West, where it rose from
the lowest level since record-keeping began in 1990.  Comfort among unmarried Americans also fell to minus 61.1,
the lowest level in more than a year, from minus 37 five weeks
earlier.  A five-week period in which sentiment among Democrats was
higher than Republicans also came to an end last week as the
former lost confidence while the latter gained.  Buying Climate  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  