-- 
U.S. Index of Leading Economic Indicators Falls

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-05-19T14:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-index-of-leading-economic-indicators-falls.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
fell in April after nine months of gains, depressed by a pickup
in jobless claims that reflects temporary setbacks including
auto-plant shutdowns.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.3 percent after a revised 0.7
percent gain in March, the New York-based group said today.
Economists forecast a 0.1 percent increase, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  A jump in firings that moved opposite to increased hiring
last month indicated unevenness in the labor market. At the same
time, Federal Reserve policy makers noted during their April
meeting that job prospects “continued to improve gradually”
and economic growth will persist at a “moderate pace.”  “We’re probably not going to see the same pace of
contraction as the first quarter, but the economy certainly has
throttled back a little bit,” said Charmaine Buskas, chief
strategist at 4Cast Inc. in  New York . “The leading indicators
are not only giving back some of the gains that we’ve seen over
the last months, but we’re also seeing temporary setbacks,
partly as a result of some shutdowns from the auto sector.”  Estimates of 58 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a 0.2 percent decrease to a 2.0 percent increase.  Six of the 10 indicators in the leading index subtracted
from the total, led by jobless claims, which took away 0.33
percentage point.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,342.75 at 10:02 a.m., after the report was released. The yield
on the benchmark 10-year note, which moves inversely to prices,
rose to 3.22 percent from 3.18 late yesterday.  Jobless Claims  In April, the four-week moving average of jobless claims
rose four out of the five weeks. The Labor Department attributed
the gains to unusual events that seasonal variations failed to
take into account, including a spring break holiday in New York,
a new emergency benefits program in  Oregon  and auto-plant
shutdowns caused by the disaster in  Japan .  A report today showed fewer Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, adding to
evidence that temporary events caused last month’s surge.  Jobless claims declined by 29,000 to 409,000 in the week
ended May 14, according to Labor Department figures. Economists
in a Bloomberg News survey projected a drop to 420,000.  The gauge of supplier deliveries and the number of building
permits also subtracted from the Conference Board index total.  The spread, or difference between the overnight federal
funds rate and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note, boosted
the index by 0.35 point.  Seven of 10  Seven of the 10 indicators that make up the Conference
Board’s leading index are known ahead of time: stock prices,
jobless claims, building permits, consumer expectations, the
yield curve, factory hours and supplier delivery times.  The Conference Board estimates new orders for  consumer
goods , bookings for capital goods and the  money supply  adjusted
for inflation.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, rose 0.1 percent after a 0.2
percent gain the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.5 percent last
month. The index measures business lending, length of
unemployment, service prices and ratios of labor costs,
inventories and  consumer credit .  U.S. Economy  The U.S. economy grew less than forecast in the first
quarter as  government spending  declined by the most since 1983
and household purchases cooled. Gross domestic product rose at a
1.8 percent annual rate from January through March after a 3.1
percent pace in the final three months of 2010, the Commerce
Department said April 28.  Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, posted a
2.7 percent gain in first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
projections, bolstered by the credit-card business. Still, Chief
Executive Officer Gregg Steinhafel said a faster expansion would
help boost consumer purchases.  “While the  U.S. economy  is showing some signs of
improvement, we expect the recovery will continue to be slow and
uneven, particularly for more moderate-income households,”
Steinhafel said May 18 in a call with analysts. Those households
“need to see further improvements in housing and income growth
before they’ll have the capacity to meaningfully increase the
discretionary spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  