-- 
Workers Must Lower Expectations on U.S. Jobs, Wells Fargo Says: Tom Keene

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-05-19T17:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-workers-must-lower-expectations-on-jobs-wells-fargo-says-tom-keene.html
Workers have to accept a “lower
level of expectations” for employment amid tepid economic
growth and may need to retrain and move to find opportunities,
said  John Silvia ,  Wells Fargo Securities LLC ’s chief economist.  The bank forecasts U.S. gross domestic product will grow at
2 percent in the second quarter, compared with a median estimate
of 3.3 percent by 71 economists in a Bloomberg survey. GDP
cooled to 1.8 percent in the first quarter, compared with 3.1
percent from October through December, the Commerce Department
said on April 28.  “We’ve got economic growth, just not as strong as many
people had hoped for or expected,” Silvia said in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken
Prewittt in the studio in  New York .  The U.S. unemployment rate has stayed above 8.5 percent
since March 2009, even as payrolls climbed for the past seven
consecutive months.  “The patterns are very, very different than the past,”
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Silvia said. “For many people
that means retraining, moving when they can, it means searching
out new opportunities.”  Housing has yet to recover from a five-year slump after
prices peaked in 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller
Composite-20 Home Price Index. That’s impeding workers’
flexibility in finding job opportunities, Silvia said.  Growth Bets  The gap between yields on two- and 10-year Treasuries has
widened for two days, reaching 2.65 percentage points today. The
so-called yield curve flattened to 2.58 percent on May 5, the
narrowest since Dec. 6. A steeper yield curve typically signals
that investors anticipate economic growth to increase.  Jobless claims dropped by 29,000 to 409,000 last week,
Labor Department figures showed today. The median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey called for a decline to
420,000.  “With jobless claims coming down, it suggests that we are
perhaps correcting the second-quarter weakness, looking for
stronger economic growth in the second half of the year,”
Silvia said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  