-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending May 17 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-19T12:35:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-may-17-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln, Nebraska:  Weekly Weather Summary: An unsettled weather pattern brought
widespread light to moderate rains to most of the eastern half
of the Nation, and a series of Pacific frontal systems dropped
unseasonable precipitation on the Northwest and parts of
 California .  A slow-moving upper-air low meandered along a
stalled front, traveling from the central High Plains to the
Ohio Valley and then tracking southeastward into the Carolinas.
The system triggered numerous showers and thunderstorms from
northeastern Colorado eastward to the mid-Atlantic and Carolinas,
while welcome rains fell on drought-stricken portions of central
and eastern Texas and central Oklahoma. More rain fell on the
saturated middle Mississippi, Tennessee, and Ohio Valleys,
although totals were much less than previous weeks. The record
crests along the lower Mississippi River flood waters were
diverted into central  Louisiana ?s Atchafalaya River Basin (via
the Morganza spillway) to ease the potential flooding of Baton
Rouge and  New Orleans , LA. Unfortunately, little or no rain fell
on drought-hit areas of the Southwest, parts of the southern
High Plains, and along sections of the central Gulf Coast.
Temperatures were subnormal along the West Coast and in the
Plains, and above-normal in the northern Rockies and eastern
third of the U.S.  Upper Great Lakes Region: Light to moderate rains (1 to 2
inches) across most of northern Wisconsin, the Upper Peninsula
of  Michigan , and northern lower Michigan was enough to alleviate
D0(H) in much of the region. Precipitation has been 1.5 to 2
times above-normal at the short and medium-term (30-, 60-, and
90-days), and even above normal at the long-term (180- and 365-
days). USGS average stream flows (1-, 7-, 14-, and 28-days) were
mostly in the upper 75th percentile and soil moistures indicated
wet conditions. However, there were a few spots where the
precipitation was less than the surrounding areas, and this
included the Arrowhead of  Minnesota  and the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan?s Keweenaw Peninsula and adjacent area. In Minnesota,
stream discharge was in the lower end of normal, fire danger was
moderate, and April 1-May 16 precipitation was near to somewhat
below normal. In the Upper Peninsula of Michigan, long-term
deficits remained (e.g. Houghton, MI was 85 percent of normal
during the past 34 months, with a deficit of 13.87 inches).
Accordingly, D0(H) remained in these two areas.  South Atlantic Seaboard and Eastern Gulf Coast States: Scattered
showers and thunderstorms provided localized relief to some
areas in  Virginia  and the Carolinas where the rains exceeded 2
inches (near Richmond, VA, Wilmington, NC, Myrtle Beach, SC, and
north-central South Carolina and south-central  North Carolina ),
but elsewhere overall precipitation (0.5 to 1 inch) kept
conditions status-quo. An exception to this was in extreme
eastern North Carolina where weekly rain totals were less than
0.3 inches and short-term precipitation remained well below-
normal (30-days: 25-50 percent; 60-days: 30 to 70 percent; 90-
days: 40 to 75 percent). The two separate D1 areas in southeast
Virginia and southeast North Carolina were merged to include
northeastern North Carolina, with D1(A) emphasizing the short-
term dryness. Additionally, the D0(A) was pushed northward into
the Delmarva Peninsula where precipitation totals for the past
30-, 60-, 90-, and 180-days were less than 75 percent of normal.  Farther south, another week of subnormal rainfall in southern
 Mississippi , southern  Alabama , most of  Georgia , and western
South Carolina, combined with near to above-normal temperatures,
produced deteriorating soil moisture conditions along the
central and eastern Gulf Coast. Both short- and long-term
deficits exist, and USGS average stream flows have dropped into
the lower 10th percentile in much of this region. Along the Gulf
Coast where La Nina-induced winter precipitation shortages (6-
months: 50 to 70 percent of normal), the spring rains have also
been disappointing. As a result, D3 was added to areas where
less than 50 percent of normal precipitation was observed at 30-,
60-, and 90-days. D1 and D2 were also edged northward in eastern
Alabama and central Georgia, and extended into southwest South
Carolina. Fortunately some rain (0.75 to 1.5 inches) fell on
southeastern Georgia, maintaining D3 conditions there. In
 Florida , a general increase in shower activity provided some
stability to conditions, and where heavier rains (1 to 3 inches)
fell, some slight improvements were made. This included parts of
north-central, central, and southwestern Florida.  Lower Mississippi Valley: The opening of the Morganza Spillway
has relieved pressure on Mississippi River levees downriver,
producing lower crests earlier than what had been predicted at
Baton Rouge and New Orleans, LA. While sparing Louisiana?s
largest cities from widespread Mississippi River flooding,
hundreds of thousands of acres of farmland and thousands of
homes in south-central Louisiana will be flooded as water from
the spillway pours out into the Atchafalaya River basin. Since
the last time this area was intentionally flooded (1973), the
heart of Cajun country is much drier and absorbing more water,
thus slowing the flow. Accordingly, this area of south-central
Louisiana is depicted with no drought as drawn last week. And
fortunately, little or no rain fell on most of Louisiana,
western Mississippi, and southern Arkansas, preventing
additional runoff into the lower Mississippi River basin but
providing no relief to drought-stricken and non-flooded
locations. Additional moderate-heavy rains (1.5 to 3 inches)
fell on northern Arkansas, western Tennessee, and northern
Mississippi, with the latter region receiving some improvement
in the D0 and D1 areas.  Central and Southern Plains: Persistent rains that had brought
relief to parts of north-central and northeastern  Texas  since
early April finally became more widespread and heavier, soaking
parts of  central and eastern Texas, near Del Rio, TX, and
portions of the TX Panhandle with 1.5 to 4 inches. Unfortunately,
little or no rain fell on southwestern, extreme western, west-
central, and extreme southern Texas, and along the western Gulf
Coast. Accordingly, where the heaviest rains occurred, a 1-
category improvement was made, while continued dryness in the
west & southwest maintained or expanded D3 and D4. In north-
central Texas where 2 to 4 inches of rain fell, conditions
improved to D1 from Runnels and Coleman counties northeastward
to Tarrant county, and to D0 from Tarrant and Dallas counties to
the  Oklahoma  border (Grayson to Bowie counties). D2-D4 were also
improved by one category in surrounding areas where the rainfall
was greatest. Similarly, in south-central Texas, 1.5 to 4 inches
of rain eased D4 conditions near Del Rio (Val Verde county), in
La Salle, Dimmit, and Webb counties, and Bell, Burnet, & Llano
counties. In eastern Texas, D4 was eased from Houston, northern
Trinity, Angelina, southern Nacogdoches, and southern Cherokee
counties. Although this week’s rains fell on the watershed for
Sam Rayburn Reservoir, the lake continued to drop, reaching 1.99
million acre-feet (normally at 2.9 million acre-feet), and much
of what remained was inaccessible.  In the extreme northern
Panhandle, 1 to 2 inches of rain diminished the D3 in Hansford &
Sherman counties. Farther north, moderate to heavy rains (1 to 3
inches) fell on central and northeast Colorado, most of  Nebraska ,
and parts of eastern  Kansas  and central and eastern Oklahoma. A
1-category improvement was made where the largest totals
occurred. In addition, the eastern edge of the drought (D0-D2)
in the central Great Plains was trimmed as decent rains fell
there. In Nebraska, releases on the Platte River from Lake
McConaughy increased on May 17. Flows doubled to 4000 cfs, with
7000 cfs entering the lake. Low land flooding will increase in
intensity with North Platte River stage expected to reach the
1971 record. A more dire situation is possible as 2 million acre
feet of water is estimated in the central Rockies snow pack, but
only a million acre feet of storage is available in McConaughy
now. Any additional heavy rains in this region will aggravate
conditions.  In contrast, exceptional short-term dryness continued in western
sections of the state, expanding D4 into the Big Bend region and
D3 into the northern Texas Panhandle. Elsewhere, another dry
week in northeastern  New Mexico  pushed D3 northward and into
southeastern  Colorado . According to AHPS precipitation, this
region has observed less than 10 percent of normal precipitation
the past 90-days, and less than 25 percent the past 6 months.
Similar conditions existed in western Oklahoma northward into
south-central Kansas, and D3 was added here. According to the
USDA/NASS, May 15 state winter wheat conditions rated very poor
or poor included: CO 41 percent; KS 55 percent; OK 80 percent,
and TX 75 percent. Similarly, May 15 pasture and range
conditions considered very poor or poor included: AZ 55 percent;
CO 41 percent; KS 35 percent; NM 80 percent; OK 50 percent, and
TX 71percent.  The Southwest: Little or no rain fell on much of  Arizona , New
Mexico, southern Utah, and southeastern Colorado. Normal
precipitation totals in the Southwest are generally low during
the spring months, although rainfall will usually increase
during the late summer southwestern monsoon. An exception to
this is in the southern High Plains (west Texas, eastern New
Mexico, and eastern Colorado) where precipitation typically
increases during mid- to late spring. Unfortunately, the spring
rains have failed to materialize in the southern High Plains,
and with the subnormal winter precipitation courtesy of the
strong La Nina, deficits have gradually accumulated. During the
past 90 days, less than 5 percent of normal precipitation has
fallen on southwestern Texas and the southern two-thirds of New
Mexico, and less than 25 percent was measured in west Texas,
southeastern Colorado, the Oklahoma Panhandle, and eastern
Arizona. Since mid-November (6-months), less than 5 percent of
normal precipitation fell on southwestern Texas and southeastern
New Mexico, and less than 25 percent in southeastern Arizona,
southern half of New Mexico, and west Texas. For example,
Midland-Odessa, TX, has received only 0.11 inches since October
1, 2010 (normally about 6 inches, or 2 percent of normal). With
deteriorating pasture and range conditions and poor to very
poorly rated non-irrigated crops, D3 was expanded northward into
northeastern New Mexico & southeastern Colorado, and D4
increased into nearly all of southwest Texas, eastern New Mexico,
and extreme southeastern Colorado.  Hawaii and  Alaska : Scattered light to moderate (1 to 3 inches)
showers fell on the eastern (Kauai and Oahu) and western (Big
Island) Hawaiian Islands, while little or no rains fell on the
middle (Maui, Molokai, Lanai) islands. Recent past rains,
however, have been adequate enough to maintain current
conditions. According to the May 5 Hawaii drought information
statement from Honolulu, agricultural conditions have recovered
enough from rains earlier in the year in parts of Maui to
justify the improvement of D2 to D1 in southwestern sections. On
the Big Island, rain totals increased in April over the leeward
slopes, but it was too soon to determine how much improvement
would occur over the existing drought areas. On Molokai, water
levels in the Waimanelo Reservoir remained steady during the
past month, leaving the mandatory 30 percent cutbacks in
irrigation water consumption in place.  In Alaska, mostly dry and seasonable temperatures were observed
across the state. Weekly temperatures generally averaged within
2 to 4 degrees F of normal, and the largest precipitation totals
(0.5 to 1.5 inches) were found in the southwest and southeast
sections of Alaska. No changes were made to this week’s
depiction as adequate precipitation fell on most of the D0 area
last week. However, as temperatures normally begin to increase
during the late spring and summer months, subnormal rainfall
will need to be closely monitored.  Looking Ahead: During the next 5 days (May 19-23), heavy
precipitation (more than 2 inches) is forecast for the north-
central Rockies and Plains (Wyoming and  South Dakota ), and for
the central and south-central Great Plains and lower Missouri
Valley. Additional light to moderate rains may fall on
northeastern and central Texas. Unsettled weather is also
expected across the Midwest and Northeast, and in the Great
Basin. Unfortunately, little or no rain is forecast for most of
the Southwest, southern High Plains, and the central and eastern
Gulf and southern Atlantic Coast States. Temperatures are
expected to average below normal in the western half of the
Nation, and above-normal in the Southeast.  The 6-10 day CPC outlook (May 24-28) calls for a continued wet
pattern across the northern portion of the Nation, from the
Pacific Northwest to the north-central Plains to the Ohio Valley
and northern Appalachians. Odds favor subnormal precipitation
along the southern tier of the U.S., from southern California to
the southern Great Plains and along the Gulf Coast into Florida.
Above-normal temperatures are expected along the Gulf and
Atlantic Coast States, with subnormal readings forecast for the
North-Central States. Alaska should have mostly dry and mild
conditions, especially in the northern half of the state.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  