-- 
U.S. Reactor Owners May Seek Retrofits to Avoid Japan-Style Nuclear Crisis

-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a ,   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-reactor-owners-see-retrofits-to-avoid-japan-style-blasts.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) , the second-largest
U.S. nuclear operator, and  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  said the industry
may need to retrofit reactors or bolster safety systems after a
pressure-relief system failed in Japan, contributing to the
worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl.  Venting systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi reactors were designed to allow engineers to release
pressurized gas into the atmosphere to avoid dangerous hydrogen
explosions. The systems were installed in the U.S. and in Japan
after the partial core meltdown at Three Mile Island Unit 2 in
1979.  The vents were built into  General Electric Co. (GE)  boiling-
water reactors, including the stricken Japanese plant that was
rocked by at least two blasts blamed on trapped, exploding
hydrogen. A conclusion that the vents were at fault may add
costs for nuclear-power generators as politicians from  Germany 
to  India  question the safety of atomic energy.  The hydrogen explosions in Fukushima “call the
modification into question,” said  Tony Roulstone , who directs
the University of Cambridge’s masters program in nuclear
technology in  England . “If these vents don’t work, then the
design looks wrong. Fixing it will take some design work, but
won’t be wildly expensive.”  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission is “looking at
effectiveness of containment venting strategies,” Charlie
Miller, head of the post-Fukushima safety review, said at  a May
12 agency meeting . The vent system is “worthy of a look” after
the disaster, he said.  ‘Fully Expects’  Entergy “fully expects” the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission to order new equipment installed and new procedures
to be adopted as a result of the accident in  Japan , said Jim Steets, a spokesman for the New Orleans-based company that owns
11 reactors. Exelon Corp. owns the largest number of U.S.
reactors.  Operator error or lack of power at the facility may explain
why venting systems didn’t work at Fukushima. “There are
multiple explanations for failure of venting systems in Japan to
prevent hydrogen explosions,” Michael Burns, another Entergy
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The meltdown at the Dai-Ichi plant in Japan began after it
was damaged by an earthquake March 11. A subsequent tsunami took
out the primary power supply, and diesel generators either
worked only briefly or also were flooded, according to a  May 18
interim review  of the incident by the U.K.’s Office for Nuclear
Regulation.  Adequate Power?  Because loss of power needed to open valves may have
contributed to the hydrogen explosions, “one of the things we
expect to be testing with our own units is, do we have adequate
auxiliary power, could it withstand fire or flood?”  Jim Rogers ,
chairman and chief executive officer of Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Duke Energy, told  Kathleen Hays  on Bloomberg
Radio “The Hays Advantage” yesterday.  It’s still unclear whether Japanese engineers opened the
vents to release pressure in the containment building, according
to the U.K. report.  “It is certainly possible that inadequacies in the venting
routes may have featured in the devastating explosions that were
seen in Reactor Units 1 and 3,” the review found. “This may
indicate that more attention should have been given in the
design and safety assessment to the robustness of the venting
routes.”  The hardened-vent systems were designed by a consortium of
reactor owners advised by GE. U.S. regulators recommended
installation of the systems in a  September 1989  letter to
owners.  Meeting Requirements  “At this point, we still believe that under design-basis
conditions, the hardened-vent system would operate as designed
and meets the current regulatory requirements,” said Jim
Klapproth, chief consulting engineer for GE Hitachi, the
nuclear-power joint venture of GE and Hitachi Ltd. “We are
evaluating the situation in Japan to determine if there’s any
difference in the design or operator actions.”  Scott Burnell, a spokesman for the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, declined to comment on any similarities between the
venting and suppression systems at the Japanese plant and U.S.
reactors.  It’s “still too early to be drawing conclusions on either
events at Fukushima or possible recommendations from our  task
force ” that’s leading a safety review of U.S. reactors, Burnell
said in an e-mail yesterday.  U.S. reactor operators are able to decide for themselves
whether to vent radioactive gas when reactor pressure is high,
said Carrie Phillips, a spokeswoman for Atlanta-based  Southern
Co. (SO) , which operates two GE reactors with containment systems
similar to the Japanese plant.  Hatch Tests  Southern and U.S. regulators tested the venting system at
its GE-designed Hatch reactors in Georgia in March and they
worked as intended, Phillips said.  Explosions at the Japanese reactors destroyed the
buildings, satellite photos show, making it more complicated for
engineers to restore power and bring the units under control.
Thousands of people were evacuated after radiation levels near
the plant soared.  More information is needed about the explosions at Dai-
Ichi, including a still unexplained blast at Unit 2, said  David Lochbaum , the director of the nuclear safety project at the
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Union of Concerned Scientists, a
nonprofit.  “We haven’t yet heard what the most likely scenario is,”
said Lochbaum. “There are some signs that the vents may not
have worked.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in  New Delhi  at   msrivastava6@bloomberg.net ;
 Jim Polson  in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 