-- 
U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for May 19 to Aug. 2011 (Text)

-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 
2011-05-19T13:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-may-19-to-aug-2011-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - A classic and very persistent La
Nina precipitation pattern has dominated the country since
Autumn 2010, resulting in broad areas of drought across the
southern tier of states, in the southern half of the Plains, and
along parts of the lower and middle Atlantic seaboard as of mid-
May 2011. Extreme to exceptional drought covers most areas
across the southern Rockies, the central and southern Plains,
the immediate  Gulf Coast , and the southernmost Atlantic seaboard.
Drought has been most acute through Texas and the southern High
Plains where many locations experienced the driest October
through mid-May period on record, in some cases by wide margins.
Frequently high wildfire danger, dramatic agricultural impacts,
and increasing hydrologic concerns have been felt throughout
these areas. Farther east, drought dates back more than a year
in much of eastern  Texas  and Louisiana. However, an historic
influx of water from the north wiped out any drought impacts in
the large sections of southeastern Louisiana; specifically, in
areas along and near rivers, across the region’s extensive
marshland and natural levees, and through a large area east of
the Atchafalaya River intentionally inundated to divert
floodwaters away from the Baton Rouge to New Orleans corridor of
the  Mississippi River .  The La Nina precipitation pattern should gradually loosen its
grip through late spring and the meteorological summer of 2011,
leaving a lot of uncertainty about how drought conditions will
evolve by the end of August 2011. The mid-May 2011 Drought
Outlook map was synthesized from a combination of initial
drought conditions, current drought duration, forecasts for the
last two weeks of May, and Climatology (especially whether June
- August is a relatively wet or dry season) to varying degrees.
Drought is expected to persist in the interior Carolinas and
through much of  Louisiana  and adjacent areas, where drought
dates back farther than in most other areas. In other existing
areas of drought, the odds at least nominally favor some degree
of improvement, though there is nothing pointing toward anything
broad-scale and substantial. To wit, the forecasts of “some
improvement” and “improvement” for the parched areas of Texas
and the southern High Plains were driven by the approach of a
neutral to climatologically wet season (summer) which should
provide at least some surface moistening, even if amounts aren’t
unusually heavy. There is nothing to indicate that widespread,
significant drought relief should be expected during the
forecast period, though that of course is a possibility.  The first Drought Outlook valid through the 2011 meteorological
summer (August 2011) finally anticipates the dissolution of the
classic La Niña precipitation pattern across the contiguous
 United States  dating back approximately to October 2010. As of
mid-May 2011, this pattern has covered the southern tier of the
country from  Arizona  eastward through  Florida , parts of the
southern and middle Atlantic Coast, and the southern half of the
Plains in drought. Extreme to exceptional drought covers many
areas from southeast Arizona and central  New Mexico  eastward
through Florida and southern  Georgia , and much of the central
and southern Plains. Precipitation has been most critically
lacking in much of Texas and the southern High Plains, where
October through mid-May totals were unprecedentedly low in many
areas.  The unwavering La Niña pattern is expected to wane as spring and
summer 2011 progress, and this, along with the typical decline
in long-lead precipitation predictability during these seasons,
has led to a sharp drop in Drought Outlook confidence nationwide
compared to the forecasts issued for more than the last half-
year. In fact, the June - August 2011 long-lead forecast
indicates no tilt of the odds toward either above- or below-
normal precipitation in any of the areas currently experiencing
drought (except in  Hawaii ). As a result, the mid-May 2011
Drought Outlook valid through August 2011 leans primarily on
initial drought conditions, the day 1 through 14 forecasts
extending through the end of May, and climatology.  From southern Mississippi northeastward into the lower mid-
Atlantic coast, drought recently expanded northwestward into
interior  Alabama  and Georgia, and intensified in a few areas
near the immediate Gulf and Atlantic coasts. Only light
precipitation is expected through May 23, but thereafter through
the end of May the odds favor below-normal rainfall only in
southeastern Georgia and adjacent Florida. June - August is
climatologically a little wetter than other times of the year
along the immediate coasts and the southeastern half of Georgia.
Given these factors, most of the region should experience
limited improvement by the end of August except through interior
portions of the Carolinas, where drought is expected to persist.
Drought dates back farther in the central Carolinas than in
other parts of this region, and therefore will not respond as
readily to any rain that falls. Confidence in the Southeast and
along the eastern Gulf and southern Atlantic coasts is low.  Drought has also gripped the  Florida Panhandle  to varying
degrees for the past several months, which coincides with its
driest time of the year. The odds favor continued below-normal
precipitation through the end of May, but the advent of the
rainy season in June should at least alleviate any surface
moisture shortages existing at that time, even if June - August
2011 totals are unremarkable. Confidence in the Florida
Panhandle is high.  In the lower Mississippi Valley, and in particular southeastern
Louisiana, a dramatic contrast between drought and flooding
exists. Seriously deficient precipitation has fallen since
Autumn 2010, and consistently below-normal amounts date back
well over a year through much of Louisiana. At the same time,
upstream rains led to historic flooding along rivers and across
the swamps, marshes, and natural levees that cover most of
southeastern Louisiana, with a large area along and east of the
Atchafalaya River intentionally inundated in an effort to divert
floodwaters from the  Baton Rouge  to New Orleans corridor of the
Mississippi River. As of mid-May, drought is the least of this
region’s concerns; however, with serious, protracted rainfall
deficits in place and unlikely to change substantially over the
summer, drought is expected to redevelop. Meanwhile, in other
sections of the state, including some places within a few miles
of swampland and inundated areas, impacts from the protracted
drought are more readily apparent. Odds tilt only nominally
toward drier than normal conditions through the end of May, and
June - August is climatologically neither a wet nor dry time of
year. However, the entrenched and long-term nature of
precipitation deficits in this area will not respond readily
even to increased precipitation. Confidence in the lower
Mississippi Valley is moderate.  The southern half of the Plains states, and in particular the
southern High Plains, are experiencing the most acute drought
conditions in the country. Even though dryness dates back only
to last October, the period since then has brought record
dryness to many locations, with some parts of western Texas and
eastern New Mexico recording only a few tenths of an inch during
the period. Serious and intensifying agricultural impacts and
frequently high wildfire danger has been a mainstay for several
months now, and longer-term hydrologic impacts have been on the
rise. Fortunately, between one and three inches of rain are
expected by May 23 from eastern and northern  Kansas  southward
through part of northeastern Texas, but elsewhere, little if any
rain is forecast during the period, and the odds favor below-
normal precipitation through the end of the month across Texas
and New Mexico. Through the remainder of the summer, the only
indicators of which direction the drought will take are initial
conditions and climatology. The northern and eastern parts of
the region, where moderate rains are expected in the short-term
with no tilt of the odds toward dryness thereafter, improvement
is forecast. In contrast, drought should persist relatively
intact in southern Texas, which is pulling out of a relatively
wet time of year, and in part of eastern Texas, where dryness
dates back considerably farther than in other parts of the state.
The outlook for the swath of land from the western halves of
Texas,  Oklahoma , and Kansas westward through the southern High
Plains was driven exclusively by initial conditions and
climatology. Western and northern parts of this region are
headed into their wet season as summer progresses, making it
likely that at least some surface moisture improvement will be
felt by the end of August, though this forecast should not be
interpreted as calling for widespread, significant relief. In
other areas, where June - August is not particularly wet and/or
precipitation since the start of the water year has been
particularly sparse, only limited improvement is expected at
best, even if only a marginal boost in surface moisture.
Confidence in the southern half of the Plains is low.  Drought also covers the southwest from western New Mexico
through central Arizona. Little or no rain is expected through
the end of May 2011, although this is a dry time of year for the
region anyway. Thereafter, June - August tend to be wetter,
though not to the extent observed a little farther to the east.
The result of these considerations is a forecast for some
improvement. Confidence in the Southwest is low.  In Hawaii, there are enhanced chances for drier than normal June
- August conditions, overcoming any relief felt through the end
of May, and resulting in drought conditions similar to or
slightly worse than at the start of this period. Confidence in
Hawaii is moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  