-- 
Ugandan Opposition Leader Blocked From Attending Protest

-- B y   F r e d   O j a m b o   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-19T12:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/ugandan-opposition-leader-is-blocked-by-authorities-from-attending-protest.html
Uganda ’s main opposition leader,
 Kizza Besigye , was blocked by security agencies from leaving his
home to participate in protests against rising inflation, an
aide said.  “He tried to get out in his car, but the security blocked
him” at the gate, Sam Mugumya said by phone from Besigye’s
Kasangati home, 17 kilometers (10.6 miles) north of the capital,
Kampala. Besigye faces “preventive arrest,” he said. A
government spokesman denied he was under house arrest.  The 55-year-old opposition leader, who heads the  Forum for
Democratic Change  party, has been repeatedly detained as he
leads so-called walk-to-work protests over the rising price of
staple foods in the East African nation. Police have sprayed
teargas and fired rubber bullets to quash the demonstrations
that began last month.  The violence has killed as many as five people and left
dozens injured,  al-Jazeera  reported on May 13, citing the  Uganda
Red Cross .  Inflation accelerated to 14.1 percent in April, from 11.1
percent a month earlier, as food costs jumped 31 percent, the
 Uganda Bureau of Statistics  said on April 29.  ‘Illegal Procession’  Besigye finished second place in a presidential election on
Feb. 18 after securing 26 percent of a vote he claimed was
rigged. President Yoweri Museveni, who has been in power for 25
years, was re-elected for a fourth term, with 68.4 percent.  Police received reports that Besigye had called supporters
to join him in an “illegal procession,” forcing authorities to
stop him from leaving the house to spark “chaos,” Fred Opolot,
the government’s spokesman, said by phone from Kampala today.  “In view of what previously happened, when his so called
walking to work has caused the destruction of property and
disruption for businesses for life, the police took preventative
action,” Opolot said. Besigye isn’t under house arrest, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Ojambo in Kampala at 
 fojambo@bloomberg.net 
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 