-- 
ECB Should Keep on Withdrawing Unconventional Tools, Tumpel-Gugerell Says

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-19T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/tumpel-gugerell-says-ecb-should-withdraw-unconventional-tools.html
European Central Bank policy makers
should continue to withdraw unconventional tools designed to
bolster bank lending as financial markets recover, Executive
Board member Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell said.  “The unwinding of our non-standard monetary policy
measures has to go forward as financial conditions improve, not
least to prevent moral hazard and delay in the needed financial
sector restructuring,” she said at a conference in Frankfurt
yesterday. At the same time, “governments have to work on
regaining confidence, putting the necessary reforms in place.”  The ECB has phased out some of its longer-term refinancing
measures introduced to fight the financial crisis and President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  will announce in June whether the central
bank will maintain unlimited funding over three months. ECB
council member Luc Coene said on May 11 non-standard measures
will be phased out “when possible.”  Tumpel-Gugerell said in an interview on May 16 that the
financial system “has overcome the crisis of the last two
years” and fewer banks are relying on central bank liquidity.  “First and foremost, we need to strengthen financial
market regulation and supervision,” she said yesterday. “We
cannot make our common currency responsible for issues caused by
market failure, lack of regulation and supervision and
undisciplined fiscal expenditure.”  Tumpel-Gugerell won’t take part in the ECB’s next policy
decision on June 9. Her eight-year term on the six-member
Executive Board ends on May 31, when she will be replaced by
Belgium’s Peter Praet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in  Frankfurt  at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  