-- 
Unbeaten Djokovic Aims for Nadal’s French Open Crown, No. 1 Tennis Ranking

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-20T11:11:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/unbeaten-djokovic-aims-for-nadal-s-french-open-crown-no-1-tennis-ranking.html
Novak Djokovic is out to extend his
perfect season at the  French Open , and that has defending
champion  Rafael Nadal  looking back for inspiration.  Djokovic, who turns 24 in two days during the opening
session of  Roland Garros , has won 37 straight tennis matches to
start the year, threatening  John McEnroe ’s 1984 record streak of
42 victories. The Serb will take the top spot in men’s tennis
away from Nadal, the five-time French Open champion, should he
reach the final in two weeks.  “I’m just most happy about the game I have this year on
clay -- the way I’m striking the ball and the way I’m so self-
confident,” Djokovic told a news conference in Rome after he
beat Nadal for his seventh tournament championship of the year.
“I always knew I could beat the top players, but now I have the
confidence to do it.”  The Serb will play his opening round against No. 71  Thiemo
de Bakker  of the Netherlands. Nadal will face No. 39 John Isner,
the American who is best known for playing the longest match in
tennis history at last year’s Wimbledon.  Djokovic’s victory at the Rome Masters was only the second
time he’d beaten the 24-year-old Spaniard, the best clay-court
player of his generation, on his favorite surface.  Favorites  Djokovic isn’t favored with bookmakers. Nadal, who said he
is watching recordings of past matches to try to recover his old
form, is the 8-11 favorite to win the  French Open  at U.K.
bookmaker William Hill Plc, meaning a successful $11 bet would
return $8 plus the original stake. Djokovic is the second-
favorite at 11-8, while 29-year-old  Roger Federer  of
 Switzerland , 24-year-old  Andy Murray  of the U.K. and 22-year-old
Juan Martin del Potro of Argentina are 14-1.  Federer, who is scheduled to play Djokovic in the
semifinals, begins his French Open campaign against Spain’s
 Feliciano Lopez . Murray, who may play Nadal in the last four,
faces a qualifier in his first round.  Going back to the  Davis Cup  finals in December, the second-
ranked Djokovic hasn’t lost in 39 matches.  “It probably all started from there,” he said in an
interview in Monte Carlo last month. “It was the best feeling
that I have experienced on a tennis court ever. Individually, I
won two Grand Slams, but this can be rated as my biggest
achievement of my career.”  Seeks Records  Djokovic can equal McEnroe’s streak with a semifinal spot,
while a title will tie him with  Argentina ’s  Guillermo Vilas  for
the longest win streak in the Open era at 46 straight, set in
1977.  “Records are there to be broken,” McEnroe, seven-time
major champion, said this week on a conference call. “Given the
fact there is more competition, more athleticism, more depth in
the sport, his record is even more impressive than mine.”  Nadal is seeking to tie Bjorn Borg’s Open-era record of six
Roland Garros singles championships. He won his 31st clay-court
title last month in Barcelona, the most of any player on the ATP
World Tour.  Nadal, also the reigning Wimbledon and U.S. Open champion,
started the season with a shot at becoming the first man since
 Rod Laver  in 1969 to hold all four Grand Slam titles at the same
time. Instead, Nadal left the Australian Open in tears after a
ruptured thigh muscle hampered his movement in a quarterfinal
loss to  Spain ’s  David Ferrer .  Four Finals  Djokovic won his second major title in  Melbourne  and has
since defeated Nadal in four finals. Nadal’s loss to Djokovic in
 Madrid  was the Spaniard’s first on the slow surface since  Robin Soderling  of  Sweden  handed him his only defeat at Roland Garros
in the fourth round in 2009.  “Anyone, no matter what sport they are playing, can’t rest
on their laurels,” McEnroe said. “Nadal came off one of the
greatest years in Open tennis history, and now all of a sudden
he finds himself sort of befuddled and baffled at what to do
against Djokovic right now.”  Djokovic will take over the top spot in the ATP rankings
from Nadal by making his first French Open final even if Nadal
wins. That would make the Serb the first player other than Nadal
or Federer to hold the top ranking since  Andy Roddick  of the
U.S. in February 2004.  ‘Court Coverage’  “You see the court coverage that he has, I think it’s
unparalleled in tennis,”  Andre Agassi , a former French Open
champion and No. 1-ranked player, said in an interview. “He’s
starting to get a lot more confidence with his offensive skills
and his serve is now no longer a liability.”  Djokovic leads the men’s tour this season with 43 percent
of his return games won and is second to  Croatia ’s Ivo Karlovic
with wins in 89 percent of his service games.  Nadal, who had a fever during the Madrid and  Rome 
tournaments, said his chance will come, and that it would be
“impossible” for Djokovic’s run to go on forever.  “The champion in my opinion is not only able to win every
week; it is when they are able to wait at the right moments,”
Nadal said after the Rome final. “I am waiting every week,
trying to find solutions.”  Djokovic has now beaten Nadal 11 times in 27 meetings, but
has yet to win a best-of-five match in a major against the
Spaniard. Nadal has won all five of their Grand Slam encounters,
including three at Roland Garros, where Djokovic has yet to take
a set off him. Nadal may have to change his strategy to beat
Djokovic in Paris this year, McEnroe said.  “Perhaps taking a few more chances, trying to get Djokovic
on the defensive a little bit more, whereas it appeared he was
allowing him to dictate play and banking on him missing and not
being consistent enough,” McEnroe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  