-- 
Hungarian Economy Ministry Comments on 2011 Budget Developments

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 
2011-05-19T09:30:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/hungarian-economy-ministry-comments-on-2011-budget-developments.html
Hungary’s government, which seeks to
cut the  budget deficit  below the European Union limit of 3
percent of gross domestic product this year, said the shortfall
would be 7 percent were it not for one-time revenue from private
pension funds.  The Economy Ministry commented yesterday in an e-mailed
response to questions from Bloomberg News.  On what the size of the budget deficit would be excluding the
528.8 billion forint ($2.8 billion) earmarked for deficit
reduction from private pension fund portfolios:  "If we didn’t count on private-pension fund revenue at all,
then the general government balance would deteriorate by 528.8
billion forint in cash-flow terms and by 2.6 trillion forint in
ESA terms. The general government deficit would be 6.9 percent
of GDP in cash-flow terms and 7 percent in ESA terms in 2011 in
this case.  "If it were only the 528.8 billion that wouldn’t arrive in
the budget’s cash flow, then the cash-flow deficit would be the
equivalent of 6.9 percent of GDP, while this wouldn’t affect the
ESA deficit of the general government, which would still show
the 2 percent surplus signaled in the Convergence Program."  On whether it would conform to the EU’s statistical methodology
to exclude spending for the state railway company Mav, Budapest
transport company BKV and for public-private partnership
projects from budget expenditures:  "The government in the spring 2011 notification to Eurostat
about the expected deficit this year included the budget for the
consolidation of debts at Mav and BKV (300 billion forint and 78
billion forint, respectively) as well as the PPP buyouts (200
billion forint.) These also figure in the Convergence Plan.  "Debt consolidation and the buyout of PPP contracts -- in
effect the purchase of PPP facilities -- have to be booked as
expenditures according to the EU’s statistical methodology,
therefore these items cause a deterioration in the balance."  On how much the government plans to spend on Mav, BKV and the
PPP projects and what the budget deficit will be as a percentage
of GDP, according to EU accounting standards:  "The government determined a budget of 578 billion forint
for these three items -- 300 billion forint for assuming debts
at Mav, 78 billion forint for assuming debts at BKV and 200
billion forint for PPP projects -- based on which decision the
details are being worked out at the Ministry of National
Development.  "Including these and along with the 7.2 percent balance of
the Pension Reform and Debt Reduction Fund -- following the
transfer of the 528.8 billion forint -- the general government
balance for 2011 is expected to be a surplus of 2 percent, or a
1.304 trillion forint deficit in cash-flow terms according to
Hungarian methodology."  On whether the government is ready to take additional measures
to meet the budget deficit target:  "The government can meet this year’s deficit target, but of
course this deficit target has changed as a result of announced
and implemented measures. The deficit was significantly reduced
-- turned into a surplus -- after accounting for revenue from
private pension funds, while the deficit is increased by the
assumption of debts and the buyout of public-private
partnerships. The government doesn’t plan new measures beyond
those already announced and is focused on implementation."  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  