-- 
TV Networks Fueled by Netflix Effect Introduce Most New Shows Since 2004

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-05-20T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/tv-networks-add-most-shows-in-7-years-as-netflix-fuels-appetite.html
The four biggest U.S. television
networks are introducing the most shows in seven years as
subscription services like  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  make spending on new
programs less risky.  This week, CBS, Fox, ABC and NBC presented advertisers with
39 new programs for the TV season that starts in September, the
most since 2004-05, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Web-based services are providing a new market for older
shows, vying with local stations and cable outlets, Jack Myers,
chairman of Media Advisory Group in New York, said in an
interview. Foreign demand for U.S. programs is rising and
networks are now collecting fees from pay-TV systems, he said.
With new revenue sources, shows such as  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s “Hawaii
Five-O” can break even or make money in their first season.  “Ratings are less and less of an important barometer for
whether a show will stay on the air,” Myers said.  CBS, the most-watched U.S. network, expects to reach $3
billion in annual revenue from those sources in a few years,
Chief Financial Officer Joseph Ianniello said in February.
Services such as Netflix will pay $1 billion for program rights,
he told analysts.  For the 2011-12 season, New York-based CBS announced six
new shows and plans additional pickups in the next several
weeks, according to Nina Tassler, president of entertainment.  The Netflix Factor  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and News Corp.’s
Fox also sell canceled shows and past seasons of current fare to
Netflix, the Los Gatos, California-based mail-order and online
service. In addition, the three are co-owners of Hulu.com, which
offers current, ad-supported episodes online.  ABC, CBS and Fox now receive more money from Netflix for
old shows than when the programs were originally sold for rerun
on cable and local TV, said three network executives, who
requested anonymity because they weren’t authorized to publicly
discuss financial terms.  “We’re a new buyer in the ecosystem and that’s good for
content providers,” said  Steve Swasey , a Netflix spokesman. He
declined to discuss the terms of deals with the networks.  “Hawaii Five-O” generates $5 million an episode,
including international revenue and rerun rights sold to  Time
Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s TNT cable channel, according to  Leslie Moonves ,
CBS’s chief executive officer. The show, wrapping up its first
year, is “extremely profitable,” he said on May 3.  Those changing economics give networks leeway to
experiment. CBS is moving “Rules of Engagement” to Saturdays
at 8 p.m., the first time in six years that one of the networks
has put a scripted show on that night, said Kelly Kahl, who
oversees scheduling. CBS is owner of the show, which makes money
“across the value chain,” he said.  ABC Slate  ABC, third in Nielsen Co.’s prime-time audience ratings,
plans 13 new programs, the most for the network since the 2006-
2007 season. Paul Lee, who developed hits at Disney’s ABC Family
cable channel, was tapped last year to run the network’s Los
Angeles-based entertainment unit.  Fox, with eight new shows on the schedule, may be making
the biggest bet of all with “Terra Nova,” a science-fiction
series from executive producers  Steven Spielberg  and Peter Chernin, former president of  News Corp. (NWSA)   The show may be the most expensive pilot in TV history,
according to Myers. Fox has already ordered a full season.  About a family that travels back in time to prehistoric
Earth to save humanity, “Terra Nova” was filmed in  Australia 
and has 250 special effects in the two-hour debut, according to
Fox Broadcasting Chairman Peter Rice, who wouldn’t provide the
cost. Los Angeles-based Fox is finishing this season first in
the 18-to-49-year-old audience demographic that advertisers seek
and is second overall behind CBS.  “If you’re Fox, you don’t take that kind of risk unless
you have the business model solid,” Myers said.  NBC’s Strategy  NBC, last in prime-time viewers, plans 12 shows, the second
year of increased spending after years of scrimping and a failed
10 p.m. talk show with  Jay Leno .  Bob Greenblatt was hired to run New York-based NBC’s
entertainment division after Comcast acquired control from
 General Electric Co. (GE)  in January.  “We’ve got a couple of new network presidents and they’re
starting to put their stamp on the schedule,” said Shari Ann Brill, a media consultant. “Greenblatt probably should have
taken an eraser and wiped the entire slate clean, but these are
built-in franchises and they keep the lights on for years.”  NBC is introducing half of its new shows in September and
half next year, when the network’s sole 2011 hit “The Voice”
returns. The talent show, averaging 7.3 million viewers a night
in the 18-to-49-year-old age group, gives the network a platform
to promote and introduce new fare.  Back to Respectability  “‘The Voice’ could be the show that brings NBC back into
respectability,” said Don Seaman, head of TV research at the
advertising company MPG North America. “It really doesn’t take
much to turn things around quickly.”  NBC’s programming slate, following 12 new shows last year
as well, probably marks a long-term commitment by Philadelphia-
based Comcast to improving the prime-time schedule, Seaman said.
NBC reduced spending from 2007 to 2009 under then-Chief
Executive Officer  Jeff Zucker .  NBC will focus “ a little less on reinvention of the wheel
and a lot more broadcasting 101,” Ted Harbert, the network’s
chairman of broadcasting, said during this week’s presentation
to advertisers and affiliates.  Nielsen Ratings  In the season ending this month, the four networks
collectively have lost about 9 percent of their audience in the
18-to-49-year-old demographic, punctuated by a 14 percent slide
at NBC, according to Nielsen data. Even with so many new shows,
the networks may struggle to win younger viewers against cable
shows like  MTV ’s “Jersey Shore” and new online options.  In the aggregate, the four networks are seeking advertising
rate increases of 9 percent or more, said Porter Bibb, managing
director at Mediatech Capital Partners LLC, a New York-based
investment bank. They will end with commitments that are in
total unchanged or down slightly from a year ago, he predicted.  For those reasons, broadcast networks are adding new
outlets for TV shows and relying less on 30-second commercials
to make programs profitable, Myers said.  “The landscape has changed,” Myers said. “Networks are
looking for a financial hit, not just a hit in the ratings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  New York  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  