-- 
Venezuela Will Weaken Currency in ‘Medium Term,’ Central Bank’s Leon Says

-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-05-19T20:54:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/venezuela-will-weaken-currency-in-medium-term-central-bank-s-leon-says.html
Venezuela will probably weaken the
 exchange rate  in the central bank-administered  currency market 
in the “medium term,” as the government seeks to avoid a boom
in imports at the expense of national production, bank director
 Armando Leon  said.  The  central bank  plans to maintain the exchange rate in the
Sitme, as the exchange market is known, at 5.3 bolivars per
dollar for now, though it is not good to maintain the same rate
for too long, Leon said in an interview in Caracas. He did not
provide details about the timing or size of any eventual
exchange rate adjustment.  “It is not convenient to fix an exchange rate for too long
because the economy moves on,” Leon said. “In the medium term,
it will probably be adjusted.”  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  shut down an unregulated
 bond market  last year after accusing brokerages of driving
inflation through  currency speculation  and replaced it with the
Sitme that sells bonds to local importers who resell them in a
secondary international market in exchange for dollars. Since
June, the market has operated at a fixed exchange rate of 5.3
bolivars per dollar.  Venezuela experienced a surge in imports four years ago as
a result of an oil boom that flooded the market with dollars,
said Leon. Weakening the exchange rate for the bolivar in the
Sitme would discourage imports and boost the economy by aiding
local production, said Leon.  “The policy now is to supply currency for raw materials
and machinery with the aim of strengthening the manufacturing
and commercial sectors,” Leon said.  Venezuela  will expand its offering of dollar-denominated
bonds it sells in a bid to maintain the average $30 million to
$40 million it injects daily into the central-bank administered
foreign exchange market, Leon said.  The Sitme, as the market is known, will begin this year to
sell Petroleo de Venezuela SA bonds maturing in 2022, Leon said
in an interview in his office in Caracas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  