-- 
Wallabies Playmaker Cooper Opts for One-Year Contract to ‘Keep on my Toes’

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-05-19T03:56:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/wallabies-playmaker-cooper-re-signs-with-australian-rugby-through-2012.html
Wallabies fly-half Quade Cooper
signed a one-year contract extension with the Australian Rugby
Union that ties him to the national team and Queensland Reds
through 2012.  Cooper, the leading points scorer in this year’s Super
Rugby competition, said he pushed for a single-season deal to
“keep myself on my toes and keep improving.” A short-term
contract also enables him to keep his options open, he said.  “I never want to rest on my laurels,” Cooper, 23, said at
a televised news conference. “Sometimes people get comfortable
when they have a long-term deal because they know they’ve got
money in the bank and can just sit back and relax. I don’t want
to take that ride.”  Cooper established himself as the Wallabies’ attacking
pivot last year, starting 13 of the team’s 15 Tests. The Sydney-
based Australian Rugby Union has re-signed 17 Test players in
2011 as it seeks to maintain its playing stocks beyond the Sept.
9-Oct. 23 Rugby World Cup in  New Zealand .  Cooper’s retention comes a day after All Blacks playmaker
 Dan Carter  signed with the New Zealand Rugby Union through 2015.
Carter said he had been tempted by “significant offers” from
overseas clubs before committing to his country.  His Australian counterpart had been considering a move to
rugby league and said switching to the 13-man game he played as
a junior remains “a genuine option” when he comes off contract
in 2013.  “It wasn’t that long ago that I was playing rugby
league,” Cooper said. “I’ll definitely keep those options open.
If you get offered a job you’d be naive not to look into it.”  ‘On the Edge’  Queensland coach Ewen McKenzie said the length of Cooper’s
contract would enable the Super Rugby-leading Reds to maximize
the talents of their playmaker and goal-kicker.  “I know how Quade thinks and living on the edge is how he
plays the game and I’m not surprised that transfers into how he
thinks about the contract situation,” McKenzie said. “The
reality is we are getting the best out of him as a player, which
is what we want.”  Cooper, who was voted the best Australian player of the
2010 Super 14, has scored 166 points in the southern
hemisphere’s expanded provincial competition this year to help
the Reds top the standings.  The majority of his 41 points in 24 Tests for the Wallabies
have come from six tries.  “Quade delivers an X-Factor,” ARU Chief Executive Officer
John O’Neill said in a statement. “He has that rare ability to
excite an audience and have a defense on alert every time he
touches the ball. I’m delighted we’ve extended Quade’s tenure
beyond this year’s  Rugby World Cup .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 