-- 
Warsaw Beats Europe Luring Initial Share Sales From Ukraine to Slovenia

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-05-20T09:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/warsaw-beats-europe-luring-initial-share-sales-from-ukraine-to-slovenia.html
Poland ’s bourse is luring more
initial public offerings than all of western Europe’s exchanges
combined as companies from Slovenia to  Lithuania  to Ukraine sell
shares in Warsaw for the first time.  IPOs on the 20-year-old  Warsaw Stock Exchange (GPW)  jumped to a
record 73 this year from 25 during the same period in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d., Slovenia’s second-largest lender, and Avia
Solutions Group AB, the Vilnius-based airport-services provider,
led  eight companies  from outside Poland that have listed since
December. As many as 10 more may start trading in 2011, said
Ludwik Sobolewski, the Warsaw bourse’s chief executive officer.  Warsaw “was the obvious choice for our company,” said
Sergiy Kasianov, chairman of grain and sunflower seed producer
KSG Agro SA, one of six Ukrainian companies that sold equity in
the Polish capital since November. “Listing here should
guarantee high liquidity of our stock.”  The region’s biggest pool of pension and mutual fund assets
and a 41 percent surge in trading in the first quarter is
drawing companies from smaller markets across central and
Eastern  Europe . Exchanges in 28 west European cities including
London and  Frankfurt  had a total of 45 new offerings since the
end of December, down from 50 a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Smaller Size  While the number of equity sales is growing in Poland,
their size is dwarfed by those in western Europe. Polish IPOs
raised $777 million so far this year, with an average value of
$10.7 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
western Europe, companies raised $19 billion with a mean deal
size of $423 million, the data show.  “We are very proud to have these small companies listed in
Poland,” the Warsaw exchange’s Sobolewski said in an interview.
“We want to be perceived as a market for small companies. This
is our house specialty.”  IPOs in Poland have surged an average 39 percent from their
offer price through yesterday, almost double the 21 percent gain
for west European deals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The companies are tapping increased demand from both
international and local investors. Foreign investors’ share in
trading on the Warsaw bourse rose to 47 percent in 2010, from 36
percent the previous year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and the exchange’s  website .  Hungary , Czech Assets  Polish mutual funds and pension funds oversee $129 billion,
almost double the assets in Hungary and the  Czech Republic 
combined, data compiled by Poland’s financial-services regulator
and the Warsaw-based Chamber of Fund and Asset Managers show.  Trading volume jumped 41 percent to 16.3 billion euros ($24
billion) in the first quarter from a year earlier, or more than
four times the level in Budapest, where turnover declined by 36
percent, according to data from the Brussels-based Federation of
European Securities Exchanges. Prague trading climbed 13 percent
to 4.4 billion euros in the period, the data show.  “Listing here gives access to a large group of domestic
investors and at the same time doesn’t lock out foreign
buyers,” said Jaroslaw Derylo, the head of  investment banking 
in Poland at Wood & Co., which helped manage last month’s
initial public offering of Kruk SA, the country’s largest debt-
collection company.  The Warsaw exchange, which listed its own shares for the
first time in November and reported a 45 percent jump in first-
quarter profit, has had more initial share sales this year than
bourses in every emerging market except  China . A total of 38
foreign companies from 20 countries trade in Warsaw, according
to data on the exchange’s  website .  Dubai,  Hong Kong   Deutsche Bank AG recommended buying shares of Warsaw’s
exchange operator, citing “continued support from a strong
macroeconomic backdrop” and an estimated 25 billion zloty ($9.1
billion) of planned share sales this year, according to a report
dated yesterday.  Warsaw’s emergence as a destination for new listings is
overshadowed by Dubai and Hong Kong, which has lured foreign
companies including  L’Occitane International SA (973) , the French
maker of skin-care products, and  Russia ’s United Co. Rusal, the
world’s largest aluminum maker.  Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Holding Co., China’s second-
largest drug distributor, raised HK$15.3 billion ($2 billion) in
the city’s biggest share sale this year, two people with
knowledge of the matter said May 13.  Economic Growth  The Shanghai-based company’s share sale, the largest in
Hong Kong since Hong Kong-based AIA Group Ltd.’s IPO last
October, will take the value of new stock sold in the city this
year to more than $7 billion, surpassing the $5.6 billion raised
at this point in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
as of May 18.  Companies are raising equity financing in Poland to expand
in emerging Europe, where economic growth will average 4.3
percent in 2011, more than twice the 1.7 percent pace in
advanced Europe, according to International Monetary Fund
 estimates  on May 12. Poland, the only European Union country
that didn’t slip into recession during the global financial
crisis, will grow 4 percent this year, IMF  forecasts  show.  The 371-share WIG Index trades at 11.6 times estimated
earnings, compared with 7.2 for the  MSCI EM (MXEF)  Eastern Europe Index
and 11.1 for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 21  developing
countries  worldwide, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Higher Valuations  “Valuations are higher than on other markets, which is a
factor attracting companies from the region,” said Michal Kopiczynski, who helps manage $3.8 billion at ING TFI SA, a
Warsaw-based mutual fund.  Nova Kreditna, which also trades in Ljubljana, sold 104
million euros of new shares last month to fund acquisitions in
the Balkan region and strengthen its finances ahead of European
Union stress tests. The stock has increased 2 percent from its
reference price in zloty, valuing the company at 1.27 billion
zloty and making it the largest to list in Warsaw this year.  Avia Solutions, which raised 76.6 million zloty in its
February share sale, has rallied 30 percent from its offer
price. Dnipropetrovsk-based KSG, the latest Ukrainian company to
come to Warsaw, has retreated 0.5 percent after selling 108
million zloty of shares in April. Industrial Milk Co. of Kiev
received 80.7 million zloty from share sales last month and has
dropped 0.5 percent from its offer price.  Sadovaya Group SA, a coal producer based in Alchevsk in
eastern Ukraine, has surged 33 percent since its 92.6 million-
zloty offering in December.  Ukraine Listings  The increase in listings from neighboring Ukraine prompted
Warsaw to start an index of companies from the country this
month. The WSE WIG-Ukraine Index has fallen 0.5 percent in May.  “There’s a long queue of Ukrainian companies seeking to
list here,” said Andrzej Olszewski, managing director at
Warsaw-based ING Securities SA, which managed the IPO of
Industrial Milk as well as Nova Kreditna’s share sale. “There
are so many that you need somebody to direct traffic.”  The Warsaw exchange, founded two decades ago to help the
government sell state assets and build a market-based economy
after the fall of communism, now trades shares with a total
market capitalization of $213 billion, the third-biggest among
European developing nations after Russia and  Turkey . That
compares with more than $1.6 trillion each for France and
 Germany .  More Offerings  Wood & Co. , the Prague-based securities company that opened
a full-branch office in Warsaw in 2009, is working on at least
six IPOs, Derylo said. Warsaw-based BRE Bank SA, the lead
manager of Wroclaw, Poland-based Kruk’s IPO, is preparing 10
offerings, Jaroslaw Kowalczuk, head of BRE Bank’s brokerage,
said by phone.  Ljubljana-based Zavarovalnica Triglav d.d., Slovenia’s
biggest insurer, plans to sell shares in Warsaw by July to
finance expansion in Turkey, Bulgaria and  Romania , making it the
second company from the Balkan country to seek a Warsaw listing.
Novo Mesto-based Krka Group d.d., the country’s largest
drugmaker, is also considering trading its shares in Poland,
Chief Executive Officer Joze Colaric said on May 12.  Poland plans to raise 15 billion zloty from sales of state
companies this year as part of efforts to curb borrowing and
finance the  budget deficit . The government raised 312 million
zloty in this month’s sale of a 12 percent stake in Warsaw-based
agriculture lender Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA, a unit of
Utrecht, the Netherlands-based Rabobank Groep NV. The Treasury
Ministry said it  scaled back  the IPO from as much as a 37
percent stake because of “limited” investor demand.  State Sales  The government will probably get 5 billion zloty from the
sale of Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, the European Union’s
biggest coking coal producer, making it the country’s biggest
offering this year, Jaroslaw Zagorowski, chief executive officer
of the Jastrzebie-Zdroj-based company, said in January. The
state may sell shares this year in Polski Holding Nieruchomosci
SA, a Warsaw-based property company.  “The Warsaw bourse has become a mature market in its 20
years of existence,” BRE Bank’s Kowalczuk said. “What makes
the exchange stand out in the region is its high liquidity, a
key reason for issuers to come and list shares.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  