-- 
What L’Affaire Strauss-Kahn Can Teach French: Carol Matlack

-- B y   C a r o l   M a t l a c k
-- 
2011-05-19T03:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/what-l-affaire-strauss-kahn-can-teach-french-commentary-by-carol-matlack.html
The image of a handcuffed  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  being led to a New York jail has hovered over
 France  for days. Among the questions the episode has raised is a
particularly uncomfortable one for the French: Did their
laissez-faire attitude toward officials’ private lives help
produce the spectacle of a respected leader charged with
sexually assaulting a hotel maid?  “In truth, I am not astonished by this affair,” says
Jean-Paul Garraud, a parliamentary deputy who is a center-right
spokesman on judicial matters. “In France, there’s a real
tolerance about our politicians. Maybe it’s because of our
monarchist past.”  In the traditional French view, it’s nobody’s business if
politicians commit adultery, pay for sex, or engage in orgies--
so long as they do their jobs. Most people can see the
difference between an extramarital dalliance and the violent
crime Strauss-Kahn is charged with and to which he plans to
plead not guilty.  For French politicians, the boundaries may not look so
distinct. No official in the country’s recent history has been
ousted over a sex scandal -- and there have been some shockers.
Last year, Culture Minister Frédéric Mitterrand admitted that he
had paid for sex with boys on Asian vacations. He kept his job
after explaining that the “boys” were of legal age.  Open Secret  Mitterrand is a nephew of François Mitterrand, who raised a
child with his mistress, largely at public expense, while
serving as president from 1981 to 1995. The arrangement was an
open secret in the political and media establishment.  Mitterrand’s successor,  Jacques Chirac , also had an eye for
the ladies. In a 2001 memoir, his wife, Bernadette, wrote that
she knew he had affairs and said, “My husband always came
back.” Calls to the former president’s office in Paris weren’t
immediately answered.  Similarly, Strauss-Kahn’s aggressive pursuit of women was
well known in France, yet little was said about it.  One of the few to raise the alarm when Strauss-Kahn was
named in 2007 to head the  International Monetary Fund  was
reporter Jean Quatremer from the leftist newspaper  Libération .
Calling Strauss-Kahn’s relations with women a “problem,”
Quatremer wrote, “He often skates close to harassment.”  Against that backdrop, it wouldn’t be surprising if some
French politicians figured they could do as they pleased. What’s
more, they might be right: If a hotel chambermaid in France
complained of being assaulted by a prominent politician, Garraud
says, “I’m not at all sure that it would be treated as it has
been by American justice.”  Clinton in  Arkansas   Strange as the French might find it, a similar situation
existed in the 1980s in Arkansas, when  Bill Clinton  was
governor. Clinton was often on the prowl for sexual conquests --
a fact well known to local news media because he sometimes made
advances toward women journalists. Yet nothing was reported
about it.  After Clinton became president, several women came forward
publicly with allegations of sexual misconduct. Although never
charged with any wrongdoing, in 1998 Clinton agreed to pay
$850,000 to settle a sexual-harassment lawsuit from Paula Jones,
a former state worker who said Clinton had summoned her to a
hotel room where he exposed himself to her.  He denied Jones’s account, yet was held in contempt of
court and fined after a judge found he had given misleading
testimony. Clinton’s relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky came to light after Jones’s lawyers subpoenaed
witnesses to show that Clinton had a pattern of inappropriate
behavior with women. Clinton’s office didn’t respond to requests
for comment.  ‘Incomprehensible’  The impeachment of Clinton in l’affaire Lewinsky was
“incomprehensible to the French spirit,” said the newspaper
France Soir in an article on Strauss-Kahn’s arrest.  In the past five years, sex-related controversies have
ended the careers of two governors and seven lawmakers in
Congress.  Recently, Representative Christopher Lee of  New Jersey 
resigned after admitting he had sent a shirtless picture of
himself to a woman while trolling for dates on Craigslist.  In some cases, an extramarital romance can trigger
something much bigger. Former Nevada Senator  John Ensign 
resigned on May 3 after details came out about an affair he had
with an aide. His behavior sparked an ethics investigation of
payments and favors given to the woman and her husband. The
 Justice Department  may now take up the case.  (Carol Matlack’s column will appear in Bloomberg
Businessweek’s May 23 issue. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Carol Matlack in Paris at 
 cmatlack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  