-- 
Yellowstone Club Founder Blixseth Wins Bankruptcy Case Dismissal

-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 
2011-05-19T03:10:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/yellowstone-club-founder-blixseth-wins-dismissal-of-state-bankruptcy-case.html
Tim Blixseth, co-founder of the
Yellowstone Club for millionaires, won dismissal of an
involuntary bankruptcy petition filed by Montana in  Las Vegas . A
lawyer for Montana said the state can refile its petition.  Tax officials from  California , Montana and Idaho in April
filed involuntary bankruptcy petitions against Blixseth.
Blixseth’s lawyer, Charles Axelrod, said today in a phone
interview that U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce Markell in Las Vegas
dismissed Montana’s petition, and that Blixseth paid $925,000 in
back taxes owed to Idaho and $994,000 owed to California.  The sums paid to Idaho and California represent a
15 percent discount and can be reclaimed under a “reservation
of rights” claim, Axelrod said. “Mr. Blixseth is no longer in
bankruptcy,” he said.  Rodney Jean, a lawyer representing Montana, said the
state’s claims were dismissed based on technical arguments over
where such petitions should be filed.  “The court dismissed based only on venue,” and gave
 Montana  the opportunity to refile its claim in another state,
Jean said. The ruling has “nothing to do with the substantive
validity of the tax claim,” he said.  Dan Bucks, Montana’s director of revenue, said in April
that Blixseth owes the state about $56 million in back taxes,
and that he transferred assets from various states to an entity
in  Nevada  to avoid paying taxes.  Ski Resort  Blixseth and his former wife, Edra Blixseth, founded the
Yellowstone Club, near Big Sky, Montana, in 2000 as a ski resort
for millionaires looking for vacation homes. Members paid a
combined total of $205 million for 72 properties in 2005 alone.  The couple took cash for their personal use from a
$375 million loan arranged by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  that year,
according to a court ruling by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Ralph B. Kirscher in Montana. Finances at the club deteriorated
thereafter, and the club eventually went bankrupt, Kirscher
found.  Blixseth claimed the allegations in Montana are a personal
attack on him by Governor Brian D. Schweitzer. The governor is
trying to help an investor in the Yellowstone Club who is
opposing Blixseth in  bankruptcy court  in Montana, Blixseth has
said. He was ordered to pay $40 million to the club’s creditors
under a September ruling by Kirscher. Blixseth said he’s
appealing that judgment.  The case is in re Blixseth, 11-15010, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Nevada (Las Vegas). The Yellowstone case is
In re Yellowstone Mountain Club LLC, 08-61570,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Montana (Butte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  