-- 
Dollar Falls Versus Most Major Currencies on Slowing Economy; Krona Jumps

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-05-19T21:18:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/yen-slumps-after-data-shows-economy-shrank-more-than-economists-predicted.html
The dollar fell versus most major
peers after a drop in housing sales and slowing in a regional
gauge of manufacturing bolstered speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will maintain stimulus and keep  interest rates  low.  The euro touched the highest level in a week against the
dollar and currencies of commodity exporters gained as investors
sought higher-yielding assets. The yen dropped versus the
European currency as Japan slid into its third recession in a
decade and Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  said he expects the central
bank to maintain a flexible monetary policy.  “Investors are coming back to the realization they want to
sell the dollar, and there is very little reason to own it
because the Federal Reserve is going to be on hold,”  said
 Kathy Lien , currency research director at online currency trader
GFT Forex in  New York . “The economic data today was very bad.”  The dollar fell 0.4 percent versus the euro to $1.4309 at 5
p.m. in New York, from $1.4250 yesterday. It touched $1.4325,
the weakest level since May 13.  The yen dropped 0.4 percent to 116.79 per euro, from 116.37
yesterday, declining for a fourth consecutive day. It reached
117.24, the weakest level since May 6. Japan’s currency rose 0.1
percent versus the dollar to 81.61, from 81.68 yesterday. It
touched 82.23, its weakest level since April 28.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, which tracks
the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.5 percent.  Philadelphia Fed  The euro erased losses against the greenback after the
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
slid to 3.9, the weakest since October, from 18.5 a month
earlier. A Bloomberg News survey forecast a reading of 20. In
another report, the National Associated of Realtors said sales
of existing U.S. homes unexpectedly fell 0.8 percent in April to
a 5.05 million annual pace.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
fell in April after nine months of gains, decreasing 0.3
percent. A Bloomberg survey forecast a 0.1 percent increase.  Chicago  Fed President  Charles Evans  said improvements in
the economy and labor market and the outlook for inflation
aren’t sufficient for the central bank to begin pulling back
record monetary stimulus. He spoke at a forum in Chicago.  Policy makers shouldn’t “overreact” to recent inflation
pressures by tightening monetary policy, New York Fed President
William C. Dudley said today in response to questions in
Middletown, New York. The central bank is falling short of its
goals because of the modest pace of the recovery, with
unemployment too high and headline inflation likely to ease,
Dudley said.  Exit Questions  Fed officials are considering how quickly to begin an exit
from record stimulus after purchasing a total of $600 billion in
U.S. Treasuries by the end of June. They also have held the
benchmark U.S. interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 to support the economy.  The Swedish krona was the top performer against the dollar.
The currency gained 0.7 percent to 6.2547 per dollar. Sweden’s
key interest rate is 1.75 percent.  Japan ’s gross domestic product contracted an annualized 3.7
percent in the three months through March, when the nation was
struck by a record earthquake, following a revised decline of 3
percent in the previous quarter, the Cabinet Office said today
in  Tokyo .  Demand, Output Collapse  “The market is worried that demand and output in Japan
collapsed a lot further than they had thought,” said Steven Englander, head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at Citigroup
Inc. in New York. “The Japanese data reflects the disaster that
they had.”  Kan, speaking today in parliament in Tokyo, said he expects
the central bank to work in close cooperation with the
government in boosting the economy.  The yen has lost 5.2 percent this year in the biggest
decline among the 10 developed-nation currencies tracked under
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The dollar has
fallen 4.6 percent, while the euro has risen 2.8 percent.  “The fact that Japan is officially in a recession again is
the death knell for the yen,” said  Paresh Upadhyaya , head of
Americas G-10 currency strategy at Bank of America Corp. in New
York.  Switzerland ’s currency weakened 0.4 percent to 1.2603
versus the euro and was little changed at 88.08 centimes per
dollar. Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said
authorities will consider taking “appropriate measures” should
the franc continue to strengthen. It has gained 6 percent
against the greenback this year.  Dollar Outlook  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. lowered its forecasts for the
greenback, citing poor growth prospects.  “The structural story is effectively one that is linked to
the imbalances in the  U.S. economy ,”  Thomas Stolper , chief
currency strategist in  London  at Goldman Sachs, said in a
conference call with investors. “Growth is becoming slightly
slower. There’s decelerating momentum.”  The greenback will depreciate to $1.45 against the euro
over three months compared with an earlier projection for it to
trade at $1.40, analysts led by Stolper wrote in an e-mailed
note dated yesterday. The dollar will decline to $1.50 in six
months and $1.55 in 12 months, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  