-- 
Zapatero’s Socialists Head for Local Vote Defeat as Spain Protesters March

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 
2011-05-20T13:05:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-19/zapatero-s-socialists-head-for-local-vote-defeat-as-spain-protesters-march.html
Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis
Rodriguez Zapatero’s Socialists are headed for defeat in local
and regional elections after a week of street protests and sits-
in against his policies, polls show.  Thirteen regions accounting for 60 percent of the economy
and more than 8,000 municipalities hold elections on May 22.
Polls show Zapatero’s Socialists will be defeated in most
regions, including traditional strongholds, and may lose the
city of Barcelona for the first time in three decades.  Support for the Socialists has flagged as Zapatero turned
his back on traditional allies to push through wage reductions
and spending cuts to fight the sovereign-debt crisis. The run-up
to the vote, a year before polls to choose Zapatero’s successor,
has seen demonstrations against budget cuts, bank bailouts and a
30-year-old democracy that protesters say safeguards entrenched
interests.  “The conservative victory will be pretty much a punishment
vote for the Socialists,” Alejandro Quiroga, a political
science professor at Newcastle University in the U.K., said in a
telephone interview. “It will add to the perception that this
is a government on its way out.”  Pitching Tents  Protesters pitched tents in Madrid’s central Puerta del Sol
square on May 15 and have demonstrated there ever since. They
are calling for changes to the electoral system to reduce the
dominance of the two main parties and stem corruption.
Demonstrators oppose spending cuts and a youth  unemployment rate 
of 45 percent, which the  International Monetary Fund  has said
raises the “specter of a lost generation,” and want to be able
to vote for lawmakers directly rather than for party lists.  Spain’s electoral board ruled last night to ban the
protesters from demonstrating tomorrow, which is traditionally a
“day of reflection” before the election. Deputy Prime Minister
Alfredo Perez Rubalcaba declined to say whether authorities will
break up the protest, telling reporters today that the “police
know perfectly well how to do their job and to balance the
different rights that are in play.”  Zapatero’s Socialists, their popularity eroded by the
highest unemployment rate in  Europe , stand to lose nine of the
13 regions as well as the national elections due by next March,
polls by the Madrid-based Center for Sociological Research show.
Castilla-La Mancha, the central region with the largest  budget
deficit  last year, may fall to the opposition  People’s Party 
after three decades of Socialist rule, a May 5 poll showed.  Larger Deficits  As the central government seeks to tame its deficit with
the deepest austerity measures in at least three decades, the
handover to new local officials threatens to reveal larger
shortfalls than their predecessors reported, says Angel Laborda,
chief economist at Madrid-based Funcas, the savings-bank
foundation.  After elections in Catalonia last year, the new government
said the region’s deficit would be 60 percent wider than its
predecessor had forecast, undermining confidence in regional
governments that together have 115 billion euros ($164 billion)
of outstanding debt. Catalonia’s long-term issuer credit rating
was cut to A from A+ by Standard & Poor’s yesterday, which cited
the deficit and debt. The outlook was negative, S&P said.  New administrations in the regions, which control health
and education spending and hire half of all public workers, will
also have to implement spending cuts postponed during the
campaign period, Laborda said. Maria Dolores de Cospedal, the
PP’s candidate in Castilla-La Mancha, has pledged an “audit”
of the region, which she says is “practically bankrupt.”  ‘Serious Jitters’  “The bigger worry is that new governments will reveal
larger deficits than previously estimated,” Madhur Jha, an
economist at HSBC Bank Plc in  London , wrote in a research note
this week. “This would raise serious jitters about Spain’s
fiscal austerity program.”  Spain is seeking to convince investors that it can lower
its deficit and avoid following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  in
seeking a bailout. Zapatero said today he could “guarantee”
there will be no more spending cuts following the regional
elections, even after the European Commission forecast on May 13
that Spain’s overall shortfall will be 6.3 percent of gross
domestic product this year, missing the 6 percent target.  The premium investors demand to hold Spanish 10-year bonds
instead of German equivalents, Europe’s benchmark securities,
widened to 238 basis points today, compared with 228 basis
points yesterday.  Unpaid Bills  Spain ’s 8,000 municipal governments, which are also
suffering from a revenue slump caused by the collapse of the
property boom, owe 33 billion euros in unpaid bills, according
to the Platform Against Late Payment, a pressure group. Cospedal
said today there may be 100,000 unpaid bills in her region.  After the polls, the Socialist party will turn its
attention to a leadership contest as Zapatero said last month he
won’t seek a third term. Elections are due in March 2012 and
Zapatero said today that bringing forward the vote wouldn’t be
good for the Spanish economy.  Polls show the favorites are Rubalcaba and Defense Minister
Carme Chacon. While the party has given a mixed response to the
protests, Chacon said May 18 that she was “listening” to the
protesters and some of their objectives are “not only
reasonable but possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  