-- 
H&R Block’s Option One Targeted by Investor Group Seeking Bond Repurchases

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-05-09T17:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/h-r-block-s-option-one-targeted-by-investor-group-seeking-bond-repurchases.html
A group of mortgage-bond holders is
organizing to force repurchases of soured loans by  H&R Block
Inc. (HRB) ’s Option One Mortgage Corp. unit, according to a Dallas
lawyer who is helping coordinate the effort.  Three investors that retained Talcott Franklin PC asked the
firm to solicit other members of its RMBS Investor Clearing
House to join in the action, Talcott Franklin, the firm’s head,
said today in a telephone interview. Members of the clearing
house may have influence because they have 25 percent of the
voting rights of 64 mortgage-bond trusts holding Option One
loans, he said.  “It’s a no-brainer,” Franklin said. “There’s an
unaffiliated servicer. There are trustees that are generally
proven to be cooperative. And there’s an entity with funds
earmarked to pay for repurchases.”  The effort, announced in an e-mailed statement, represents
the first bid by members of the clearing house to publicly
organize their collective holdings, accounting for more than
half of $1.3 trillion of outstanding home-loan bonds without
government backing, he said. As investors with 25 percent of
individual deals agree to take action, Talcott Franklin will
lobby the servicer of the mortgages and bond trustees to review
loan files and seek repurchases on their behalf, he said.  “At this point, H&R Block has not received any request and
cannot comment on actions by outside parties,” Gene King, a
spokesman for the Kansas City, Missouri-based company, said in
an e-mail.  Putbacks  H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer, is being targeted
by investors seeking so-called putbacks of loans that allegedly
failed to match the sellers’ promised quality, which JPMorgan
Chase & Co. bond analysts estimated in October may cost banks
and lenders across the industry as much as $90 billion.  H&R Block may face a maximum liability of $12.8 billion
from mortgage repurchases, RBS Securities Inc. analysts
estimated in an October report, based on data about delinquency
and loss rates on its loans.  Option One, which focused on subprime loans and is now
known as Sand Canyon Corp., ceased originating mortgages in
December 2007. In April 2008, the unit sold its contracts to
service home loans and servicing operations.  The unit had reserved $155 million for mortgage obligations
as of Jan. 31, including $24.2 million related to an
indemnification agreement, H&R Block said in March. From May 1,
2008 through Jan. 31, Sand Canyon had received cumulative
repurchase claims of $740 million in unpaid principal, H&R Block
has said. Losses on loan repurchases, indemnification and
settlement payments were about $88 million in the period.  Conflicts of Interest  Billionaire Wilbur Ross’s American Home Mortgage Servicing
Inc. bought the unit’s servicing contracts in 2008. Loan
servicers, which manage outstanding debt, face conflicts of
interest in seeking loan repurchases when the mortgages they
oversee were made by affiliates, according to Amherst Securities
Group LP analyst  Laurie Goodman .  American Home “will abide by its obligations under any
applicable pooling and servicing agreement,” Philippa Brown, a
spokeswoman for the Irving, Texas-based company, said in an e-
mail.  Participants in Franklin’s clearing house have included
BlackRock Inc., Pacific Investment Management Co., Fortress
Investment Group LLC,  Fannie Mae  and  Federal Home Loan Banks ,
people familiar with the matter said in September. Some of those
investors are part of a separate group negotiating with Bank of
America Corp. over $177 billion of bonds filled with loans made
by Countrywide Financial Corp., which the bank bought in 2008.  ‘Dating Service’  In seeking to organize investors owning bonds backed by
Option One mortgages, Franklin said in the statement that “as
with many of these transactions, the damages may exceed the
available funds for recovery, so we are encouraging investors to
submit their holdings quickly so we can instruct the trust
administrators as to their deals.”  Members of the clearing house have been generally using the
directory like “a dating service” to quietly find other
holders of the bonds they own with similar characteristics or
viewpoints, in order to then jointly press trustees and
servicers or file lawsuits, he said in the interview.  Mortgage-bond investors typically must rely on bond
trustees and loan servicers to take action on their behalf over
violations of so-called representations and warranties. When
their holdings exceed certain thresholds, investors can force
actions such as declaring loan servicers in default of their
contracts, requiring them to share loan files, creating changes
to deal terms and replacing trustees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  