-- 
Madoff Trustee Drops $3.8 Billion in Claims Against Fairfield Feeder Funds

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-05-10T00:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/madoff-trustee-drops-3-8-billion-in-claims-against-fairfield-feeder-funds.html
The trustee overseeing the liquidation
of Bernard L. Madoff’s former firm agreed not to pursue
$3.8 billion from three defunct funds related to the Fairfield
Greenwich Group, the biggest feeder fund to the convicted con
man’s Ponzi scheme, as part of a settlement.  Irving Picard , the trustee for Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, will drop efforts to collect the $3.8 billion it
claims the Fairfield funds withdrew in the final six years of
Madoff’s fraud, Picard and the Fairfield funds’ liquidators said
in separate statements today.  As part of the agreement, one of the funds, Fairfield
Sentry, agreed to reduce its $1.2 billion in customer claims
against the Madoff bankruptcy estate by almost $1 billion, both
sides said.  The settlement allows the liquidators of the Fairfield
funds to work together with Picard to pursue assets from the
former owners and managers of the Fairfield funds,  David Sheehan , the Madoff trustee’s chief counsel, said in Picard’s
statement.  The accord also assigns to Picard the liquidators’ claims
against the Fairfield Greenwich management companies, officers
and partners. Madoff creditors will get the first $200 million
of any such recoveries and 85 percent of any additional
recoveries, according to Picard’s statement.  The three Fairfield funds, Fairfield Sentry Ltd., Fairfield
Sigma Ltd. and Fairfield Lambda Ltd., were offshore funds based
in the British Virgin Islands, owned by Walter Noel, Jeffrey Tucker and Andres Piedrahita, according to Picard. The trustee
sued the three funds along with related entities and key
executives, in July 2010, he said.  Largest Feeder Fund  Fairfield Sentry was the largest feeder fund to Madoff’s
fraud, placing more than 95 percent of investors’ money with the
con man, Picard said.  Under the agreement, the Fairfield liquidators will pay
$70 million to a claims fund administered by Picard for
reimbursement of Madoff customers.  The Fairfield funds agreed to the entry of judgments for
the $3.8 billion, which Picard agreed not to collect, citing
their “limited ability to pay cash toward any judgment.”  The settlement must be approved by a bankruptcy judge in
 Manhattan  before it becomes final.  The case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard
L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-1789,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. District Court in Manhattan
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  