-- 
Lady Gaga, War Veterans to Take Center Stage at Robin Hood Gala

-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 
2011-05-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lady-gaga-afghan-iraq-war-veterans-take-center-stage-at-robin-hood-gala.html
When the  Robin Hood Foundation  was
searching for a big-name performer to lure hedge-fund executives
to its gala tonight, board member  Doug Morris  had the perfect
bait.  Morris, who left  Universal Music Group ’s chief executive
post in January and will join  Sony Music Entertainment  as
chairman in July, put in a call to Lady Gaga, who was on his
artists roster. She immediately accepted the invitation to
perform free at  Manhattan ’s Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.  The foundation sold all of its 4,100 tickets last month at
prices ranging from $3,000 for individuals to $30,000 to
$250,000 for a table of 10.  “We were thrilled when she accepted,” David Saltzman,
Robin Hood’s executive director, said in a phone interview.
“She’s the biggest solo performer in the world, and she’s a
native  New Yorker  who cares deeply about the city.”  The event’s co-chairs are  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  chairman and co-
founder Laurence D. Fink, New York real-estate developer Richard LeFrak and David M. Solomon, co-head of  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) ’s  investment-banking  unit. “NBC Nightly News” anchor
Brian Williams will be the evening’s emcee.  The Robin Hood gala is Wall Street’s largest single-night
fundraiser. It brings top figures from the worlds of finance,
investment banking, real estate and entertainment to raise money
to fight poverty in  New York City . Last year, it raised a record
$87.8 million and gave $132 million to 200 New York programs and
schools.  Gaga’s Freebies  Gaga is also using her Facebook.com page to ask the public
to vote for one of five nonprofits that will get half of the $1
million earmarked for a group of charities that assist troubled
youths.  The five are:  Lawyers for Children , which provides legal
assistance to  New York  youths;  SCO Family of Services , which
offers counseling and health care;  The Door , an organization
that provides medical, social and legal services;  Hetrick-Martin
Institute , which serves the needs of  lesbian, gay, bi-sexual
and transgender youths ages 12 to 21; and  Safe Horizon , which
helps children, parents and families who are victims of crime
and abuse.  The charity will also ask attendees to support a new
fundraising initiative to assist U.S. veterans of the Iraq and
Afghanistan wars, reservists and national guardsmen living in
poverty in New York.  As in past galas, each person will have a wireless device,
enabling him or her to make an anonymous gift. At the 2010 gala,
the table drive raised more than $26 million.  Former NBC “Nightly News” anchor Tom Brokaw will moderate
a discussion with Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the U.S.
Joint Chiefs of Staff, to talk about the problems veterans face.  Table Drive  Saltzman said the nonprofit wanted to highlight struggling
U.S. service personnel because it’s seeing an increase in
veterans at food pantries, homeless shelters and health clinics
funded by Robin Hood. He met earlier this year with Mullen, who
said that dozens of war veterans are committing suicide each
week and suffer from  Post-Traumatic Stress Syndrome  and
depression after serving on the battlefield.  “Admiral Mullen told us that our country is pretty good at
fighting wars, but we’re not as good at taking care of our
veterans,” Saltzman said. “It’s now time to serve those who
serve us.”  (To see a live stream of the discussion between Tom Brokaw
and Admiral Michael Mullen, register at
 http://www.livestream.com/ )  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@Bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  