-- 
Thai Premier Abhisit Calls for Peace After King Endorses July 3 Election

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 
2011-05-10T10:16:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/thai-premier-abhisit-calls-for-peace-after-king-endorses-july-3-election.html
Thai King Bhumibol Adulyadej
dissolved Parliament and decreed a July 3 election that will
test stability in a nation where about 100 people have been
killed following disputes over the last vote in 2007.  “We should agree from now on that our country will be a
democracy and not go the other way, not break the
constitution,” Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who requested
the royal decree on May 6, said in a national address late
yesterday. “We should agree that Thai politics today should
compete on policies, ideas and creativity, not inciting people
to conflict that leads to violence and losses.”  The contest for 500 seats in the  House of Representatives 
will pit Abhisit’s Democrat party against allies of fugitive ex-
Premier  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a 2006 coup and
lives overseas. Thaksin-linked parties have won the past four
elections on strong support from poorer northern areas.  As head of state, King Bhumibol is empowered with
dissolving parliament, according to the  constitution . Since he
took the throne as an 18-year-old in 1946, Thailand has seen
nine coups and more than 20 prime ministers.  The dissolution comes seven months before Abhisit’s term
ends as rising food and fuel costs threaten his chances of
returning to power. An unclear outcome risks undermining
economic growth that reached a 15-year high of 7.8 percent in
2010 and stocks that are among  Asia ’s best performers in the
past 12 months.  Risky Outlook  “The outlook for Thai equities will be a bit risky after
the election because there will be more uncertainty in forming
the coalition,” said Kiattisak Jenwipakul, head of research at
SCB Securities Co., a unit of  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl. (SCB) 
“Domestic spending statistically jumps during the campaign
because people are more upbeat and cash from politicians
channels through the system.”  The benchmark SET Index gained 1.2 percent today, extending
gains in the biggest two-day jump in 11 months. The baht
strengthened 0.1 percent.  Abhisit has mimicked Thaksin’s populism to improve his
party’s standing in the north and northeast, where it won 20 of
208 constituency seats in the 2007 election. In last night’s
address, he touted policies to guarantee crop prices, offer free
education and give cash handouts to the elderly in an appeal to
voters Thaksin won over a decade ago with cheap health care and
microcredit.  ‘Help the Poor’  “No matter what your political leanings, no matter what
colors you wear, all Thai people must agree on one thing: to
help the less fortunate, to help the poor,” Abhisit said. “We
should help them have enough money to fight the rising cost of
living.”  About 52 percent of  Thailand ’s 67 million  people  live in
the north and northeast, which means they will determine who
holds more than half of the seats up for grabs. The areas are
the poorest in Thailand, with an average income about a third of
that in Bangkok, according to the National Statistical Office.  Abhisit’s Democrat party is seeking to win the most seats
for the first time since 1992. It took power in December 2008
after a court ruling disbanded the pro-Thaksin ruling party for
election fraud, and smaller coalition parties defected to
support Abhisit for the premiership.  That spawned a group of red-shirted Thaksin supporters who
cordoned off streets in Bangkok to push for an election, with
protests a year ago claiming about 90 lives. Thailand has been
relatively peaceful since the army broke up those
demonstrations.  Reconciliation Agreement?  Puea Thai will likely pick Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, to compete for the premiership, according to
Petchawat Wattanapongsirikul, a candidate for the party in
 Chiang Mai . Yingluck filled out an application today to be a
candidate for Puea Thai, the Bangkok Post reported, citing party
spokesman Prompong Nopparit.  Petchawat, who fled the country for about 10 months after
last year’s protests and faces a terrorism charge for helping
lead the group, said Thaksin would return by November no matter
who wins.  “All sides have already quietly agreed to reconcile,” he
said in a May 8 interview in Chiang Mai, Thaksin’s home province
in the country’s north. “We’ve been too busy fighting each
other and everybody is getting hurt. We need to move forward and
develop the country.”  The country saw  foreign direct investment  in 2010 fall 29
percent to $3.5 billion, compared with a 28 percent gain to $6.2
billion in  Indonesia . Auto manufacturers such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Nissan Motor Co. and  Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (7211)  continued to invest
in industrial parks located far from protests in Bangkok to take
advantage of tax incentives.  Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile
phone company, has addressed supporters via video link-up from
overseas since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in
2008. His party’s billboards, which blame Abhisit for rising
consumer prices that climbed the most in 15 months in April,
reflect his centrality in the campaign, with one reading:
“Thaksin thinks, Puea Thai does.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  