-- 
Airlines on Bin Laden Alert Help Snuff Out Security Scares

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-09T22:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/airlines-on-bin-laden-alert-credited-with-ending-security-scares.html
Three U.S. airline security scares
yesterday were brought to quick ends by crew members and
passengers on high alert after the death of  Osama bin Laden ,
aviation safety specialists said.  “What happened suggests that folks within the airline and
aviation community may be worried more than usual because of Bin Laden and heightened security,” Richard Bloom, director of
terrorism, intelligence and security studies at Embry-Riddle
Aeronautical University, said today in an interview.  Bin Laden, the instigator of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
in 2001, was killed May 2 when U.S. special forces raided his
compound in  Pakistan . U.S. officials have warned of possible
retaliation by his al-Qaeda organization, which has threatened
new attacks “soon.”  American Airlines crew members and travelers subdued a man
who rushed the cockpit door late yesterday, hours after a man
was stopped from opening an exit in flight on a Continental
Airlines plane. A  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  jet was diverted and
searched after a flight attendant raised a “security concern.”  “The people I know at the Department of Homeland Security
take the job very seriously and, in light of the bin Laden raid,
they are keeping an eye on things extremely closely and being
hyper-vigilant,” said John Cox, a former airline pilot and
chief executive officer of Washington-based consultant Safety
Operating Systems LLC.  Emergency Landing  A suspect was being held in the American Airlines case,
which occurred on a flight en route to San Francisco from
 Chicago , the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  said today.  A man is being questioned in the Continental incident,
which forced an emergency landing in  St. Louis , according to
Jeff Lea, a spokesman for Lambert-St. Louis International
Airport. The plane was en route to Chicago from Houston.  The Delta jet was cleared to return to service yesterday.  “Heightened security procedures can elicit erratic kinds
of behavior in people either with mental health issues or
certain types of personalities,” said Bloom, who works at
Embry-Riddle’s campus in Prescott,  Arizona .  Cox said crews are trained for the “abnormalities that
will pop up from time to time.”  The three events appear to be unrelated, based on details
released so far, said Todd Curtis, founder of  AirSafe.com  and a
former Boeing Co. airline safety analyst. The U.S. government
immediately would have increased security measures if it had an
indication the incidents were linked, he said.  ‘Grabbing Cockpit Door’  American Flight 1561 was about 30 minutes from landing last
night when a male passenger went to the front of the Boeing 737
and began “grabbing the cockpit door,” said Tim Smith, a
spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based airline.  “Both working and traveling employees, along with a couple
of passengers, immediately subdued him, put him on the floor and
put flex cuffs on him,” Smith said in an interview.  Rageh Almurisi, 28, of Vallejo,  California , was being held
for interfering with a flight crew, said Julianne Sohn, an FBI
spokeswoman in  San Francisco . Almurisi was carrying a Yemeni
passport and California identification, she said.  Continental Flight 546 was en route from Houston to Chicago
yesterday when it was diverted at about 1:30 p.m. local time to
St. Louis, Lea said. Airport police who boarded the plane found
a man being held by a flight attendant and two passengers.  File Charges  “He apparently had gotten up in mid-flight and claimed he
had to get off and was attempting to try to open the main entry
door to the airplane,” Lea said.  Reynel C. Alcaide, 34, of Burbank,  Illinois , was charged
with crimes involving aircraft and interfering with flight-crew
members and attendants, according to a statement from the U.S.
Attorney’s Office in St. Louis. Each offense carries a maximum
penalty of 20 years in prison, according to the statement.  Continental is a unit of Chicago-based  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL)   Delta Flight 1706 was flying from  Detroit  to San Diego when
it was diverted to  Albuquerque , New Mexico, said  Anthony Black ,
a spokesman for the Atlanta-based carrier. He declined to be
more specific about the security issue on the plane.  Crew and passengers were interviewed, and “no suspicious
devices were found” after a search, said Frank Fisher, an FBI
spokesman in Albuquerque. The Boeing 737 was released to
continue its flight.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  