-- 
Algo in India Set to Double as Goldman, Nomura Fight for Pennies

-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 
2011-05-09T18:31:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/algo-in-india-set-to-double-as-goldman-nomura-fight-for-pennies.html
Computer-based trading in  India ’s
$1.5 trillion stock market may double to half of all orders
within three years as demand for speedier execution surges,
according to the Bombay Stock Exchange.  Automated programs carry out about 25 percent of Indian
orders currently, Sayee Srinivasan, head of product strategy at
Asia’s oldest bourse, said in an interview yesterday. About 60
percent of U.S. stock trades daily come from firms that rely on
fast-paced executions, according to Tabb Group LLC.  “Algorithmic trading is coming up in a big way and will
grow rapidly as more firms adopt the technology,” said
Srinivasan, who is based in Mumbai. “Automated trading is huge
internationally. In developed markets, algo trading is the major
contributor to turnover.”  While brokers increasingly seek to exploit short-lived
market opportunities by transacting thousands of shares a
second, exchanges worldwide are building faster networks to fend
off competition from alternative platforms that allow firms to
trade anonymously and with lower transaction costs.  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604)  say a mix of tight buy and sell spreads, a large volume of
smaller orders and no midday break make India ideally suited for
growth in algorithmic trading.  Cut Processing  The BSE and  National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. , the
nation’s biggest, started high-speed trading in 2009, about a
year before the Tokyo Stock Exchange Group Inc. introduced its
Arrowhead platform that cut processing to 5 milliseconds from 2
to 3 seconds.  Australia ’s ASX Ltd. in December moved to a
platform that reduced the average time to 250 microseconds from
3 milliseconds. A millisecond is one thousandth of a second and
a microsecond is one millionth.  India “is a big priority for us,” Murat Atamer, head of
electronic trading product at Credit Suisse in  Hong Kong , said
in a phone interview. High-frequency trading accounts for as
much as 60 percent of trades done by some of firm’s clients in
the South Asian nation, greater than the proportion in
Australia, Hong Kong and  Singapore , he said.  Faster trading technology has also contributed to a surge
in turnover of equity derivatives on the 17-year-old NSE, whose
shareholders include Goldman Sachs and Temasek Holdings Pte.,
bolstering its lead over the 135-year-old rival backed by
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)   Volumes Skyrocketed  Index options worth 183.65 trillion rupees ($4.1 trillion)
traded on the NSE in the year ended March 31, up fivefold from
2008-2009, and accounting for 63 percent of the total
derivatives turnover of 292.48 trillion rupees, data on its
website show. The bourse processes up to four million derivative
contracts every day and as many as seven million trades in the
cash segment, Spokeswoman Divya Malik Lahiri said.  “Volumes have skyrocketed because of a massive increase in
index options and that has happened due to a reduction in costs
and the contribution of technology,” Tushar Mahajan, head of
derivatives at Nomura Financial Advisory & Securities (India)
Pvt. in  Mumbai , said in an interview. “The best algorithms
fight for each penny in a way that humans cannot.”  Nomura has seen a “significant increase” in volumes from
rapid trading in India in the past year, according to Mahajan.
At Goldman’s Indian unit, more than 90 percent of stock volume
“is now directed via algorithms versus straight-to-market
orders,” Siddharth Chhabria, executive director at Goldman
Sachs Electronic Trading in Singapore, said in an e-mail.  Narrowed Gap  High-frequency trading has helped cut costs and narrowed
the gap between the price that a buyer is willing to pay and
what a seller wants to receive.  “Automated trades over the direct market access platform
are 10 times more cost-effective than what third party brokers
like us would charge,” T.S. Harihar, co-head of institutional
derivatives at ICICI Securities Ltd., said in an interview.
“Third-party brokers have been forced to reduce commissions to
stay competitive.”  The NSE last month permitted cross-exchange high-frequency
trading following a decision by the market regulator to permit
firms using the technology to choose between bourses for best
price. The move has increased the BSE’s chances of taking back
share from the rival that controls more than 90 percent of the
combined cash and derivatives markets.  ‘No Restrictions’  “Participants should be allowed to trade where they want
and their algos should be given access to execute trades across
exchanges,” said BSE’s Srinivasan. “We provide network to all
members. We don’t have such restrictions,” he said, referring
to NSE’s requirement that its members seek approval before
routing their high-speed trades to other exchanges.  NSE says its rules are meant to lower risks and prevent
events like the plunge in U.S. stocks on May 6, 2010, when $862
billion in equity value was briefly erased from the market.  India’s market regulator “asked to us to maintain checks
and balances well before the May 6 flash crash,” Ravi Narain,
chief executive officer, said in an interview. “We check algos
for safeguards so that there are no systemic risks. That’s why I
feel algos and high-frequency trading will grow nicely in India
and hopefully without the accidents we have seen elsewhere.”  Fast-paced trading played a role in the May 6 crash. The
automatic execution of a sale of futures contracts valued at
about $4.1 billion helped trigger the plunge, according to an
Oct. 1 report by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Credit Suisse has enhanced its risk-management systems
across  Asia  by adopting “intraday fat-finger detection” that
stops the computer program if the error causes a significant
price move against its clients, Atamer said.  “In other markets, algorithmic trading is viewed as more
of an efficiency enhancement tool but for India it is absolutely
essential,” he said. “India is a very dynamic market that is
prohibitively difficult for traders to execute manually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  