-- 
Alkermes Gains on Plan to Buy Elan Division for $960 Million

-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 
2011-05-09T20:24:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/alkermes-says-it-will-acquire-elan-s-drug-technology-unit-960-million.html
Alkermes Inc. (ALKS) , maker of the Vivitrol
addiction therapy, agreed to buy  Elan Drug Technologies , a unit
of Elan Corp. that works with pharmaceutical companies to make
products easier to take, in a deal valued at $960 million.  Alkermes Waltham,  Massachusetts , will pay the Irish
drugmaker $500 million in cash and shares valued at $462
million, the companies said today in a statement. That
represents a multiple of about nine times the unit’s earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $104
million. The median multiple of 15 deals in the drug-delivery
industry in the last year is 9.41, according to Bloomberg data.  The deal brings together two businesses that aim to improve
the way medicines are delivered, such as by grinding particles
to make them more easily absorbed. It will help Dublin-based
Elan trim debt, Chief Executive Officer Kelly Martin said in the
statement, and bring new revenue to Alkermes. The Elan unit had
sales of $261 million last year, according to Bloomberg data.
Combined revenue for Alkermes and the Elan unit was $450 million
in the 12 months ended March 30, according to the statement.  “Both of our companies have deep backgrounds in drug
formulation technology and both almost simultaneously have begun
to transition to developing our own drugs,” Richard Pops, chief
executive officer of Alkermes, said in a telephone interview.  The enlarged company, to be called Alkermes Plc, will focus
on drugs for central nervous system disorders and be based in
Dublin, according to the statement.  No Crown Jewel  Alkermes gained 72 cents, or 5 percent, to $15.19 at 4 p.m.
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the highest price
since Oct. 13. Elan’s American Depositary receipts rose 38
cents, or 4.8 percent, to $8.25, in New York Stock Exchange
trading. Each receipt is equal to one ordinary company share.  “It’s a good deal” for Elan, Adrian Howd, an analyst with
Berenberg Bank in  London , said in an interview today. He
recommends buying the shares. The unit “has never been the
crown jewel at Elan. This enables them to restructure the
business and to focus on the key value drivers.”  Elan had been trying to divest the business for years. The
company abandoned a plan to sell it in 2008 when financing dried
up amid the global financial crisis. In April last year, it said
it might split the unit off to create two separate listed
companies. That idea was abandoned the following August because
“market conditions” weren’t “conducive to an appropriate
valuation.”  Drug Technology  Both companies have developed technology used by drugmakers
to improve the way medicines are used by the body. Alkermes
makes a long-lasting injection of a schizophrenia therapy called
Risperdal Consta which it developed with  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s
Janssen-Cilag unit. Elan’s long-acting NanoCrystal injection for
Xeplion, also a schizophrenia drug developed by Janssen-Cilag,
was approved in  Europe  in March. Elan will hold 25 percent of
Alkermes Plc under today’s agreement.  While Alkermes and Elan both lose money today, the new
company “will be cash-flow positive from day one” because
“we’re merging with the profitable business division of Elan,”
Pops said.  The new Alkermes will be able to “ride the wave of growing
revenues from drug delivery technologies and apply the cash
flows to our own proprietary products,” according to Pops.  Pops will serve as chairman and CEO of the new Alkermes.
Shane Cooke, Elan’s executive vice president and head of the
drug technology unit, will be president, the companies said in
the statement.  Alkermes will finance the deal with a loan of up to $450
million from  Morgan Stanley (MS)  & Co. and HSBC Holdings Plc,
according to the statement. Morgan Stanley was Alkermes’s
financial adviser and Elan was advised by Citigroup Inc. and
Ondra Partners.  The deal will require approval from Alkermes shareholders
as well as regulatory authorities and is expected to close in
the quarter ending Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Waters in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  