-- 
Allergan’s Wrinkle-Busting Botox to Grow From Therapeutic Uses, CEO Says

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-05-09T20:03:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/allergan-s-wrinkle-busting-botox-to-grow-from-therapeutic-uses-ceo-says.html
Allergan Inc.’s Botox, the $1.4
billion drug known for smoothing facial wrinkles, will derive a
dominating share of its revenue this year from therapeutic uses,
such as chronic migraines, for the first time since 2006, Chief
Executive Officer David Pyott said.  Revenue in the last few years has been roughly split
between therapeutic and cosmetic uses, Pyott said today in an
interview in  New York . The company last week forecast 2011 Botox
sales of $1.5 billion to $1.55 billion.  “It has taken 20 years to get to $700 million on the
therapeutic side,” Pyott said today, referring to half of
Botox’s 2010 revenue. With the October U.S. regulatory approval
of the medicine for chronic migraine headaches, sales from
therapeutic uses will surge ahead of those from cosmetics this
year, he said, citing some analysts’ estimates of as much as
$800 million in peak revenue from the migraine indication alone.  Botox , a purified form of the poison botulinum, has been
used in the U.S. since 2002 as an injection to smooth frown
lines between the eyebrows of people ages 18 to 65. It was
initially approved for therapeutic uses in 1989. The drug has
been cleared for uses in blepharospasm, a condition
characterized by uncontrollable blinking; the neurological
disorder cervical dystonia; hyperhidrosis, or severe sweating;
strabismus, a visual defect in which the eyes don’t align
properly; and upper limb spasticity.  Surging Uses  “There was a five- to six-year growth spurt when cosmetic
caught up to therapeutic,”  Corey Davis , an analyst with
Jefferies & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview
today. “The fact that therapeutic is probably going to surge
again relative to cosmetic is driven by indications: spasticity
last year, now an indication for migraine, and an upcoming
indication for overactive bladder.”  Allergan gained 31 cents to $81.37 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares increased 18
percent this year.  The economic decline caused some customers to delay or skip
elective cosmetic procedures, yielding a dip in that business’s
growth, while use of the drug for therapeutic reasons continued
to increase, said Caroline Van Hove, a spokeswoman for the
Irvine, California-based company. Pyott said today the aesthetic
market is recovering.  Davis, who recommends holding Allergan shares and doesn’t
own any, estimated Botox may generate as much as $300 million in
peak U.S. sales from use against migraines within six to eight
years, and about $200 million in peak revenue from a potential
indication in overactive bladder. Those numbers may double from
uses outside the U.S., he said.  Growth Driver  “The future growth of Botox is going to be completely
driven by therapeutic use,” Davis said. “There are no other
formal cosmetic indications left, but there are plenty of new
therapeutic indications left.”  Allergan is also  testing  Botox in juvenile cerebral palsy
and a condition known as benign prostatic hyperplasia, in which
the prostate becomes enlarged, and is developing a related
molecule for use against pain, according to its website.  “Any disorder that involves a muscle and a nerve is a
hypothetical candidate for Botox,” Davis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 