-- 
Alzheimer’s Panel Calls for Large-Scale Study to Find Disease Risk Targets

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-09T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/alzheimer-s-panel-calls-for-large-scale-study-to-find-disease-risk-targets.html
More extensive, and expensive, studies
that follow large groups of people over generations are needed
to combat Alzheimer’s, researchers said today in a report that
cited the lack of progress in slowing the disease.  There isn’t enough evidence to prove anything can be done
to prevent or delay the malady, which is expected to grow
threefold and strike 16 million Americans by 2050, the
researchers wrote today in the  Archives of Neurology .  The report documented findings of a panel charged with
compiling evidence on Alzheimer’s risk factors and preventive
measures. Researchers cited the  Framingham Heart Study , started
in 1948 and spanning three generations, as the kind of trial
needed to pinpoint who gets Alzheimer’s and why. The Framingham
study identified elevated cholesterol and  blood pressure , as
well as cigarette smoking, as contributors to  heart disease .  “Maybe we are going to prove that indeed there are
associations, but for that we need more studies of good
quality,”  Martha Daviglus , one of the report’s authors and a
professor of preventive medicine at  Northwestern University ,
said in a telephone interview.  While  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX) ’s Namenda, and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and Eisai Co.’s Aricept address symptoms, there is no way to
slow or cure a disease that affects about 5.4 million Americans,
the report concluded.  The message of the report isn’t that nothing works to
reduce Alzheimer’s risk, Daviglus said. Rather, it’s that we
don’t yet know what will.  Risk Factors  “We need to start the studies earlier not only because of
environmental and lifestyle factors,” Daviglus said. “We need
to find what their baseline was, when the adults were healthy.
It’s the only way to know what risk factors are associated with
the disease.”  Such research is pricey, said Bill Thies, the chief medical
and scientific officer for the  Alzheimer’s Association , a
Chicago-based advocacy group. The Framingham study cost about
$120 million, he said. The  Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging
Initiative,  meant to define the progression of the disease
through brain scans, blood tests and cerebral-spinal fluid will
cost about $140 million, Thies said.  The current yearly federal budget for Alzheimer’s disease
is “a little less than $500 million,” he said.  The report notes that some studies suggest physical
activity reduces Alzheimer’s risk, as does a vegetable-rich
diet, and controlling diabetes and blood pressure, Thies said.  “We know those are good things to do,” he said. “There’s
no possibility that more physical activity does harm; there’s a
net benefit and maybe it will also reduce the risk of
Alzheimer’s disease.”  Clinical Trials  As of March 2011, there are six ongoing, late-stage
clinical trials in Alzheimer’s disease, according to data from
the  Alzheimer’s Association . Those drugs include  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) ’s intravenous immunoglobulin; Pfizer and
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s bapineuzumab;  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s solanezumab;
Pfizer’s and  Medivation Inc. (MDVN) ’s Dimebon; a supplementary dose of
resveratrol, the compound found in red wine; and a trail of
Namenda in combination with vitamin E.  Also in today’s Archives of Neurology, researchers found
that people who had a gene alteration associated with
Alzheimer’s disease had fewer connections in certain parts of
the brain. Those changes in brain structure suggest that
alterations in connectivity may serve as an early biomarker for
the disease.  A separate study found that two cerebrospinal fluid markers
of Alzheimer’s disease did well at identifying people with
Alzheimer’s pathology. However, the two tests identified
different absolute values for the amount of Alzheimer’s-related
proteins in the brain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 