-- 
Apple Defends Handling of Mobile Device User-Location Data

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-05-09T23:30:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/apple-defends-handling-of-mobile-device-user-location-data.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  defended how it gathers and
uses customer-location data in a letter to a U.S. House lawmaker
as it prepares to testify at a Senate hearing tomorrow on mobile
privacy.  “Consumers are increasingly demanding accurate location
information from their handheld devices,” including directions
to the nearest coffee shop or gas station, Bruce Sewell, Apple’s
general counsel wrote in a May 6 letter to Representative Mary Bono Mack, a California Republican. The letter was released
today by Bono Mack’s office.  Apple, maker of the iPhone and iPad, and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose
Android software powers devices made by leading handset makers,
are scheduled to testify at a Senate Judiciary subcommittee
hearing tomorrow on mobile privacy. The two companies have been
at the center of a debate over whether the practice of
collecting location data on mobile devices violates users’
privacy.  An April 20 report by two computer programmers said that
the operating system in Apple’s iPhones and iPad tablet
computers logs devices’ coordinates along with the time a
location is visited. Apple said April 27 that it doesn’t track
iPhone users’ locations, while acknowledging that it collects
data on WiFi hotspots and wireless towers near the device.  The Cupertino, California-based company said it has never
tracked users’ locations and “has no plans to ever do so,”
according to the 15-page letter sent to Bono Mack.  Software Update  Apple said it released a software update on May 4 that
limits how much location information is collected on the iPhone
and allows users to turn off the location feature.  Concerns raised by the programmers’ report have led to
investigations by regulators in  Germany , France, Italy and  South
Korea . The attorneys general of Illinois and Connecticut also
have sought explanations from Apple and Google on how the
companies collect and store location information.  Bono Mack was one of five Republican members of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee who sent  letters  to Apple, Google,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , Nokia Corp.,  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , and
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , seeking information about use of mobile
location data. The committee released some of the other company
 responses  today.  “BlackBerry smartphones are designed to meet this strong
consumer demand for location-based solutions while also seeking
to respect users’ privacy and to maintain the security of their
personal information,” Clint Robinson, Research in Motion vice
president of government relations, wrote in its May 9  letter 
addressed to Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican
who is chairman of the energy committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  