-- 
Argentina’s Macri Passes on Presidential Race, May Force Runoff

-- B y   R i c h a r d   J a r v i e
-- 
2011-05-09T03:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/argentina-s-macri-passes-on-presidential-race-may-force-runoff.html
Buenos Aires Mayor Mauricio Macri’s
decision not to run for president of  Argentina  boosts opposition
chances of forcing a runoff in the October elections, according
to political analyst Rosendo Fraga.  Macri’s PRO party is more likely to throw its support
behind Radical Civic Union candidate Ricardo Alfonsin than any
other contender, said Fraga, who runs the Nueva Mayoria polling
company in Buenos Aires.  “Macri and Alfonsin were disputing second place, and now
Alfonsin is the predominant opposition candidate,” Fraga said
in an interview yesterday. “Most of the PRO will back Alfonsin
whether or not there’s a formal accord.”  In a speech to supporters May 7, Macri said he would seek
re-election in July, ruling himself out as the PRO party
candidate for president of the South American nation. President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, who hasn’t declared her
intention to run, is likely to seek re-election, Fraga said. A
poll last month on backing for potential candidates showed
Fernandez had 46.3 percent support, followed by Macri with 13.5
percent and Alfonsin with 11 percent support, according to the
survey of 1,200 people by  CEOP Opinion Publica.   “The best place from which I can make a contribution to
the country is from  Buenos Aires ,” Macri, 52, said at the rally
in Buenos Aires. “I ask you to accompany me to finish what we
have begun, that we continue to change the city as we have been
doing.”  Macri said the PRO would have a “proposal” for the Oct.
23 election, without specifying whether the party would present
its own candidate or reach an alliance with another opposition
party.  Under Argentine law, a candidate can win the election and
avoid a runoff by garnering 45 percent of votes, or by taking 40
percent of votes and having a 10 percentage point lead over the
closest competitor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Jarvie in Buenos Aires at 
 rjarvie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  