-- 
Jacobi’s Lear Rages, Curses Females, Breaks Your Heart: Review

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-05-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/as-lear-jacobi-rages-curses-the-female-sex-breaks-your-heart-review.html
When  King Lear  arrives onstage he’s
all smiles and flirtation, pointing to the spot on his round
cheek where his daughter should plant her kiss.  Derek Jacobi captures every nuance of Shakespeare’s self-
satisfied old monarch, lapping up flattery like a preening cat.
Not getting the tribute he wants from his favorite child, he has
a tantrum, screaming and petulantly kicking the map he’s used to
divide his kingdom.  Then sputtering and red-faced with rage, he casts off those
who love him the most and begins to learn what powerlessness
feels like.  Jacobi’s is not a generic portrait of the great man in free
fall. Practically transparent, this extraordinary actor lets us
in on each new wave of torment.  When Goneril opposes him, we are shocked as Lear draws
venom from some deep unholy place and spews it at her. Father
and daughter meet across an abyss of hatred, and in his cursing
of her womb and sex, Jacobi captures the subterranean darkness
of this old man’s soul.  Directed by  Michael Grandage , the ensemble from  London ’s
 Donmar Warehouse  is very fine, with Gwilym Lee a standout as
Edgar. He morphs from naive young aristocrat into desperate
outlaw disguised as a mad beggar, becoming the moral heart of
the play.  Like A Movie  Set on bare dappled boards, with only a few props -- a
chair, a stool, a blanket -- the action moves with the speed and
fluidity of a film, the actors supported by evocative lighting,
music and sound effects.  As the king who finds himself stranded on the heath during
a furious storm, effectively done with strobe and steam, Jacobi
takes it down to an anguished whisper, “Blow, winds, and crack
your cheeks! Rage! Blow!”  The dark formal clothing is gone, replaced by flowing white
garments, as the king becomes a man at last. During the mad
scene, a luminous Jacobi strolls on wearing a crown of flowers -
- he is young and free, all care gone.  At the last, when he’s rocking the dead Cordelia in his
arms, Jacobi expertly plays all the notes of heartbreak in
“Never, never, never, never, never!”  We’re with him all the way.  Through June 5 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Harvey
Theater, 651 Fulton St. Information: +1-718-636-4100;
 http://www.bam.org 
Rating: ****  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor and critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Zinta Lundborg in New York at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 