-- 
Asian Energy Stocks Advance on U.S. Jobs Report; Chubu Electric Tumbles

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-09T10:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/asian-stocks-swing-between-gains-losses-after-u-s-jobs-report-bhp-rises.html
Asian energy-related stocks climbed
after U.S. jobs growth boosted confidence in the world’s largest
economy and halted a rout of commodity prices, offsetting
declines among Japanese power companies.  Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest offshore oil producer, climbed
1.8 percent in Hong Kong as oil rebounded from the biggest
weekly decline since 2008.  Santos Ltd. (STO) , Australia’s third-
largest oil and gas producer, advanced 1.7 percent in Sydney.
Kirin Holdings Co., Japan’s No. 2 brewer by volume, led declines
among companies whose earnings have suffered since the country’s
March earthquake. Chubu Electric Power Co. slumped 10 percent in
 Tokyo  after Japan’s Prime Minister Naoto Kan asked the utility
to shut its Hamaoka nuclear plant.  “The stronger-than-expected payroll report tells us that
the U.S. economic recovery is becoming more sustainable,” said
 Shane Oliver , head of investment strategy at AMP Capital
Investors Ltd., which manages $98 billion in Sydney. “More jobs
means more spending, means more profits, means more jobs, and so
on.  Japan ’s economy will obviously do it tougher than expected
this half year.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index was little changed at 137.64 as
of 7:03 p.m. in Tokyo, with about the same number of stocks
rising as declining.  The Asia-Pacific gauge sank 1.4 percent last week after
central banks from  India  to the Philippines raised  interest
rates  and U.S. reports ahead of Friday’s employment data
suggested the country’s economic recovery was slowing.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slipped 0.7 percent,
dropping for a second straight day on speculation the
government’s request to shut the nuclear reactor, located close
to an earthquake fault-line, may hurt the economy. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.3 percent, while  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng
Index gained 0.8 percent, snapping its longest streak of daily
declines since 2003.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.4
percent today. In  New York , the index advanced 0.4 percent on
May 6 as a government report showed the  U.S. economy  added more
jobs than forecast in April, easing concern that higher fuel
prices are slowing a recovery.  Payrolls increased by 244,000 workers last month, the
biggest gain since May 2010, after a revised 221,000 increase
the prior month, the U.S. Labor Department said. Economists
projected an April increase of 185,000, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. Employment excluding
government jobs jumped the most in five years, while the jobless
rate rose to 9 percent, the first increase since November.  Economic Recovery  In Hong Kong today, Cnooc gained 1.8 percent to HK$18.30,
while PetroChina Co., the nation’s largest oil company, advanced
1.7 percent to HK$10.66. BHP Billiton Ltd., Australia’s biggest
oil producer, rose 0.4 percent to A$44.75 in Sydney, while
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas
producer, gained 1.2 percent to A$45.85. Santos advanced 1.7
percent to A$14.71.  A measure of energy stocks on the Asia-Pacific gauge
advanced the most among 10 industry groups as oil futures
climbed for the first day in six. Crude for June delivery rose
as much as 3.1 percent in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange  after slumping 14.7 percent last week, the
biggest decrease since December 2008.  Jiangxi Copper Co., China’s No. 1 producer of the metal,
climbed 1.9 percent to HK$24.55 in Hong Kong after copper in
 London  gained as much as 1.4 percent today. Rio Tinto Group, the
world’s second-largest mining company by sales, added 0.6
percent to A$80.01 in Sydney.  Payroll Data  HSBC Holdings Plc (5) ,  Europe ’s biggest bank by market value,
climbed in Hong Kong after Greece denied it was considering
leaving the euro. HSBC rose 1.6 percent to HK$84, while
 Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , a surf-wear maker that gets more
than a fifth of its sales in Europe, gained 1.5 percent to
A$6.73 in Sydney.  European Union leaders showed their resolve in keeping the
euro region together, agreeing in an unannounced meeting last
week to ease the terms of the 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
lifeline that Greece received last year.  Greece Exit ‘Unrealistic’  The euro tumbled 3.45 percent in the final two days last
week, the biggest back-to-back loss since 2008, as Der Spiegel
magazine said Greece may withdraw from the currency bloc. EU
officials denied the report and said Greece will need more aid.  “It is highly unrealistic that Greece will leave the
European Union,” said  Tim Schroeders , Melbourne-based manager
at Pengana Capital Ltd., which oversees about A$1 billion.  Spotless Group Ltd. (SPT) , a corporate-services provider that
grew from one dry-cleaning store in 1946, soared 13 percent to
A$2.20 in Sydney after receiving a takeover bid from a private-
equity firm. The provider of facilities management, food and
cleaning services in more than 30 countries didn’t name the
suitor, and said the offer was too low.  Power Companies  Chubu Electric plunged 10 percent to 1,584 yen in Tokyo
today, leading power and gas companies to the steepest decline
among 33 industry groups in Japan’s broader Topix index.  Prime Minister Kan on May 6 asked the nation’s third-
biggest utility to shut its Hamaoka power plant, citing a
government study showing an 87 percent likelihood of a
magnitude-8 quake striking the area within 30 years. It’s the
first government request to close reactors since a temblor and
tsunami hit northeastern Japan on March 11 and caused the
world’s worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  Tohoku Electric Power Co., a utility based in Miyagi
prefecture, northern Japan, sank 2.1 percent to 1,205 yen after
Asahi newspaper reported it may post a full-year loss because
power plants were damaged in the earthquake.  Kirin slipped 4 percent to 1,094 yen after saying charges
linked to an earthquake-damaged factory contributed to a first-
quarter loss.  Government Measures  Toyota Motor Corp., the world’s largest carmaker, retreated
0.5 percent to 3,195 yen.  “A lot of industrial-use products such as cars and
electronics parts are produced in the Chubu district,” said
 Kazuhiro Takahashi , a general manager at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. in Tokyo. “The uncertainty about the
government measures toward nuclear power is a negative factor
for stock prices.”  The Topix has declined about 8 percent through May 6 since
March 10, the day before a magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami
devastated Japan’s northeast coast, disabled a nuclear power
plant and disrupted supply chains at companies from Toyota to
Canon Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 