-- 
Asia Commodity Day Ahead: Silver, Gold Rebound From Slump

-- B y   D a n i e l   E n o c h
-- 
2011-05-09T21:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/asia-commodity-day-ahead-silver-gold-rebound-from-slump.html
The following are the top stories on
metals, agriculture and shipping.  
TOP STORY:  Silver, Gold Advance as Investors Return After Commodity Rout  Silver futures rebounded from the biggest weekly slump
since at least 1975 and gold gained on renewed demand for
precious metals as alternative assets.  COMMODITY EXCLUSIVES:  Brazil  Coffee Crop May Rebound 12% Next Season, ICO Says (1)  Brazil’s coffee harvest may rebound 12 percent next season
as producers take advantage of a doubling of prices in the past
year, according to the  International Coffee Organization .  Hedge-Fund Backed El Tejar to Test IPO Market on Bond Sale (3)  El Tejar SA, the world’s largest grain producer, plans to
sell as much as $300 million of bonds in the U.S. this year
before a planned initial public offering.  INDUSTRIAL METALS:  Copper Climbs After Goldman Sachs Says Commodities May Recover  Copper rose, rebounding from a five-month low, after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said commodities may recover from an 11
percent slump last week.  Aluminum Premiums Rise to Record in  North America , CRU Says (1)  Premiums paid for aluminum in North America rose to a
record after warehouse incentives and transportation costs
climbed, researcher CRU said.  Chinese Aluminum Demand, Production to Balance, Brook Hunt Says  Aluminum demand in China, the world’s biggest producer and
consumer, probably will equal local supply this year, according
to researcher Brook Hunt.  MINING:  Lonmin Plans $2 Billion Platinum Expansion as Prices Gain (2)  Lonmin Plc, the world’s third-largest platinum company,
will invest about $2 billion restarting mines and expanding
production in South Africa to take advantage of a recovery in
prices of the metal from a rout in 2008.  South African Gold Industry Faces $100 Billion Threat, RBC Says  South Africa ’s mining industry faces a “very serious”
threat from silicosis claims by workers, with damage to gold
producers possibly reaching $100 billion,  RBC Capital Markets 
said in a research report.  PRECIOUS METALS:  Silver Investor Demand Climbs on Haven Appeal, CPM Says (1)  Net investment demand for silver will exceed 100 million
ounces for the third straight year in 2011, as political and
economic turmoil spurs demand for a store of value, said CPM
Group, which has published reports on precious metals since
1971.  AGRICULTURE:  Tyson Profit Trails Estimates as Animal-Feed Costs Increase (4)  Tyson Foods Inc., the largest U.S. meat processor, posted
fiscal second-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates as
higher feed costs partially offset gains in beef and chicken
prices.  Spring Crop Planting Behind Pace of Recent Years After Rains  U.S. corn and spring-wheat plantings are behind the average
pace of the past five years after heavy rains in the Midwest and
northern Great Plains left fields too muddy for farm machinery.
Cotton and soybean sowing also slowed.  Orange Juice Falls as Supply Concerns Ease; Cotton Drops  Orange-juice futures fell for the fourth straight session
as supply concerns eased in  Florida , the world’s second-biggest
producer. Cotton dropped, extending a slide to the lowest since
January.  Hog Futures Rise as U.S. Meat Demand May Increase; Cattle Drop  Hog futures rose in  Chicago  as improving weather conditions
in the U.S. increased speculation that meat demand will climb.
Cattle prices fell.  Robusta Coffee Exports From Brazil Surge on Increased Prices  Robusta coffee exports from Brazil, the world’s second-
biggest grower of the variety, surged almost 14-fold in April
after prices for the beans reached a three-year high.  Corn Rises as Wet Weather Delays Spring Planting; Soybeans Gain  Corn futures rose the most in a week on concern that wet
weather in the northern U.S. Midwest and flooding along the
 Mississippi River  will delay spring planting, eroding yield
potential. Soybeans also gained.  Sugar Rises on Lower Brazil Supply; Cocoa Steady; Coffee Falls  Sugar rose the most in more than two weeks on concern that
output this year in Brazil, the world’s biggest producer, will
trail estimates. Cocoa was unchanged, and coffee declined.  Wheat Jumps in Chicago, Paris as Adverse Weather Threatens Crops  Wheat prices rose the most in five weeks as U.S. crops were
threatened by drought in the southern Great Plains and wet
weather in northern regions. Futures in  Europe  surged the most
in at least 12 years.  SHIPPING:  Panamax Rates Rise to 1-Month High on Lower Costs to Import Coal  Rents for panamax ships that haul coal advanced to the
highest price in more than a month after a 26 percent decline in
April spurred demand and cut costs to ship the fuel to Europe.  ECONOMIES:  U.S.,  China  Pledge to Address Currency, Financial Issues (1)  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese
Vice Premier Wang Qishan pledged today to tackle currency,
financial services and trade conflicts between the world’s two
biggest economies.  Job Gains Mask U.S. Economy Growth Struggle: Chart of the Day  U.S. employment is still struggling to rebound even though
job growth was relatively strong in April, according to Steven
Ricchiuto, Mizuho USA Securities Inc.’s chief economist.  Manufacturing Booms as Deere Exemplifies Productivity Surge (1)  After a 40 percent drop in sales from October 2008 to
February 2009, Materials Processing Inc. laid off workers,
changed the way it sets prices and took fewer risks in the
volatile  commodities markets .  Fed Says  Household Debt  Increases 0.3% During First Quarter (1)  U.S. households expanded their debt last quarter for the
first time in more than two years as mortgage balances rose,
according to a survey by the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York .  OTHER MARKETS:  Euro Declines Against Yen for Fifth Day as  Greece ’s Rating Cut  The euro fell for a fifth day against the yen in the
longest losing streak since December after Standard & Poor’s cut
Greece’s credit rating, renewing concern the region’s debt
crisis is worsening.  Oil Rises Above $102 on Economic Outlook After 15% Weekly Loss  Crude oil  rose above $102 a barrel in New York, rebounding
from the biggest weekly decline since 2008, on signals that the
global economic recovery remains intact.  Emerging-Market Stocks Fall After Greece Rating Cut; Rand Slips  Emerging-market stocks fell after Standard & Poor’s cut
Greece’s credit rating, offsetting an early rally in energy
producers on higher  oil prices .  SPORTS:  Soccer Match-Fixing Probably Linked to Murders, Police Say  The most senior police officer investigating Europe’s
largest soccer match-fixing ring said he believes there have
been murders linked to the case.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  