-- 
Wal-Mart’s Massmart Purchase to Create Jobs, Pattison Says

-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 
2011-05-09T13:02:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/massmart-will-create-jobs-if-wal-mart-merger-allowed-ceo-says.html
Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM)  will create
jobs if  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  is allowed to buy a controlling
stake in  South Africa ’s largest food and general goods
wholesaler, Chief Executive Officer Grant Pattison said.  “We’ll add about 20 percent more trading space over the
next three years,” Pattison said at Competition Tribunal
 hearings  on the purchase being held in  Pretoria  today. Growth in
floor space will be accompanied by additional jobs, while
current posts will also be secure, he said.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, offered in
September to buy 51 percent of Massmart for 16.5 billion rand
($2.5 billion) as it chases international expansion to make up
for a U.S. slowdown. The bid has been opposed by the South
African government and labor unions concerned about jobs and
protecting local manufacturers and suppliers.  As many as 4,000 jobs could be lost if Massmart shifts as
little as 1 percent of procurement from local to imported
sources, Johannesburg-based Business Day reported today, citing
government documents to the Competition Tribunal.  Massmart will take advantage of Wal-Mart’s global buying
power to get goods at lower prices, which may result in an
increase in imports, Pattison said. Massmart will continue to
honor existing agreements with workers if the transaction with
Wal-Mart is allowed to proceed, he said.  A Massmart purchase would be the biggest by Bentonville,
Arkansas-based Wal-Mart since its $11 billion takeover of U.K.
retailer Asda Group Ltd. in 1999. The tribunal has scheduled
hearings from May 9 to May 16.  The  Competition Commission  on Feb. 12 recommended the
Tribunal approve the purchase be allowed without any conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels in Johannesburg at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  