-- 
AT&T and Verizon to Carry Emergency Texts to Customers, FCC Says

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-05-09T23:11:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/at-t-and-verizon-to-carry-emergency-texts-to-customers-fcc-says.html
Wireless carriers led by  AT&T Inc. (T) 
and Verizon Wireless have agreed to send emergency messages from
government officials to mobile-phone users,  Federal
Communications Commission  Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said.  The companies, including  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and T-Mobile
USA Inc., will begin relaying the messages in Washington and New
York by year’s end, with the service to extend nationwide by  “This is the ability to have your mobile device be an
emergency alert device,” Genachowski said. “Government
officials can send alerts in the event of major disasters, can
do it on a localized basis, and can make sure that the alerts
get through even if there’s network congestion.”  The service is to be formally announced tomorrow at an
event at the World Trade Center site in  New York City , the FCC
said in a news release distributed by e-mail today. Those
participating are to include New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency
Administrator W. Craig Fugate, and executives from the phone
companies, the FCC said. The mayor is founder and majority owner
of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Wireless companies volunteer to participate in the
messaging service, which lets national, state or local officials
send text-like alerts about public safety emergencies, according
to a fact sheet distributed by the FCC. Customers do not pay for
the alerts, according to the agency.  Alerts to mobile devices saved lives during  Japan ’s March
11 earthquake and tsunami, and may help in situations like the
tornadoes that devastated parts of the U.S. South last month,
Genachowski said.  AT&T on March 20 proposed buying  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile in a $39 billion deal that would combine the second- and
fourth-largest carriers to create a new market leader, ahead of
No. 1 Verizon. The deal needs approval from the FCC and Justice
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  