-- 
Atletico Madrid’s Aguero Rejects Manchester Utd., Chelsea: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-09T09:53:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/atletico-madrid-s-aguero-rejects-manchester-utd-chelsea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Aguero Interest  Chelsea and  Manchester United  are tracking 22-year-old
Atletico Madrid striker Sergio Aguero,  Metro  reported, citing
his agent Bruno Satin.  Aguero, the son-in-law of World Cup winner Diego Maradona,
turned down their offers and said he will see out his contract
with the Spanish team that ends in 2014, the newspaper added.  Ferguson Stays  Alex Ferguson  said he’ll stay at least one more season as
Manchester United coach after closing in on the Premier League
title, the  Daily Express  reported.  “I’ll be here next season,” Ferguson, who turns 70 in
December, was quoted as saying. “How’s that?”  United needs a point from one of its two remaining games to
clinch a record 19th English league title after beating Chelsea,
its only remaining challenger.  QPR Ruling  Swansea will contact the Football Association today after
saying Queens Park Rangers weren’t punished enough for breaking
transfer rules, the  Daily Mail  reported.  QPR was fined 875,000 pounds ($1.4 million) and didn’t get
a point penalty over the 2009 signing of Alejandro Faurlin. A
nine-point deduction would have been enough for Swansea to
replace the London team in the automatic promotion places.  Bale K.O.  Tottenham’s Gareth Bale will have a scan today to reveal
the extent of his ankle injury after a “horror” challenge by
Blackpool’s Charlie Adam,  the Sun  reported.  Spurs coach  Harry Redknapp  said Bale appears to have
ligament damage and will probably miss the remaining games this
season, according to the Sun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 