-- 
Australia Banking Report, JPMorgan Probe, N.Z. Power, Helsinki: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-05-09T12:05:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/australia-banking-report-jpmorgan-probe-n-z-power-helsinki-compliance.html
An Australian Senate committee says
the nation’s banking industry is “highly concentrated” and
wants more fee transparency, a broader inquiry, and the
scrapping of some taxes to encourage foreign competition.  The  Senate Economics Committee  published 38 recommendations
in a  report  May 6, saying the Reserve Bank of Australia should
publish more regularly on banks’ interest margins and returns to
determine whether competition is adequate. It also wants the
 Australian Office of Financial Management ’s borrowing program
expanded.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan on March 24 introduced laws to stop
banks from signaling future mortgage rate increases to each
other following public anger after the nation’s banks raised
rates by more than the central bank in November 2010. The Senate
committee report’s release follows earnings reports this week
from  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and
 Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)   The government has not said when it will respond to the
committee’s report and doesn’t have to accept the
recommendations.  Australia’s banks have rejected claims of price signaling
as “unfounded” and have urged the government against the move.  Compliance Action  JPMorgan Is in ‘Advanced’ Negotiations to Resolve CDO Probe  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the only Wall Street bank to remain
profitable throughout the financial crisis, is in “advanced”
negotiations to resolve its piece of a broader U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission investigation into how mortgage-linked
securities were packaged and sold as the housing market
unraveled.  JPMorgan’s securities unit has been cooperating with agency
officials and “is currently in advanced discussions with the
staff concerning a potential resolution of that investigation,”
the New York-based bank said in a quarterly financial report
filed with the SEC May 6.  The SEC is working to wrap up investigations into how banks
bundled and sold investments tied to risky mortgages, after
years of being faulted by lawmakers and investors for failing to
hold Wall Street accountable for misconduct that may have fueled
the financial crisis. JPMorgan has been probed by the SEC for
its role in designing and selling a $1.1 billion collateralized
debt obligation known as “Squared” in 2007, according to a
person briefed on the matter.  “There can be no assurance that any such resolution will
be finalized or approved,” JPMorgan said in the May 6 filing.
The bank didn’t specify which CDOs were the subject of the SEC
talks.  JPMorgan, the second-largest U.S. bank by assets, also
received a subpoena from the SEC over failed mortgages as part
of a separate investigation into whether some banks failed to
share refunds from sellers of faulty debt, a person familiar
with the investigation said.  For more, click here.  N.Z. Regulator Says Wholesale Power Price Jump Undesirable  New Zealand ’s electricity market regulator ruled that an
undesirable trading situation developed in the wholesale market
on March 26 when prices surged as much as 190 times normal
levels over about seven hours.  In a preliminary ruling, the Electricity Authority said May
6 the prices should be reset at lower levels. It said the
conduct of Genesis Power Ltd., which benefitted from the higher
prices, wasn’t unlawful and didn’t constitute manipulative
trading activity.  Users complained after wholesale prices for regions in the
north of the North Island, including the city of Auckland, rose
as high as NZ$19,000 ($15,000) a megawatt-hour after a scheduled
outage on transmission lines that bring power from southern New
Zealand. Prices are usually as low as NZ$100 a megawatt-hour
when transmission is normal.  The events “threaten to undermine confidence in and
threaten to damage the integrity and reputation of the wholesale
market,” the  authority  said.  Thirty-five parties lodged a claim, saying they faced
unacceptable losses and there had been an undesirable trading
situation, initiating the review.  Moody’s Says  Europe  Insurers Capital Exceeds Solvency II Needs  Most European insurers will be able to move to the new
Solvency II capital regime without raising more capital, Moody’s
Investors Service said in a report published May 6.  The report examines the results of the fifth Quantitative
Impact Study, or QIS5, according to a statement issued by
Moody’s. The results were announced by the European Insurance
and Occupational Pensions Authority, or  EIOPA , in March,
according to the statement.  Almost seventy percent “of all European insurance and
reinsurance companies under the scope of Solvency II
participated in QIS5,” Moody’s said in the statement. The
participation rate for the previous study was thirty-three
percent, “which gives greater weight to the QIS5 results,”
according to the Moody’s report.  “QIS5 did not test risk-management requirements which for
smaller, less sophisticated companies could prove a greater
stumbling block than meeting capital requirements,” Dominic
Simpson, a Vice President and Senior Credit Officer at Moody’s
Financial Institutions Group, said in the statement.  SAC’s ‘Cohen Account’ Probed in U.S. Insider-Trading Case  U.S. prosecutors are investigating accounts at SAC Capital
Advisors LP, including one run by founder  Steven A. Cohen , tied
to portfolio managers who pleaded guilty in a nationwide probe
of insider trading.  In a March 24 letter filed in Manhattan federal court,
prosecutors said they had recovered records from the hedge fund,
and listed documents tied to the “Cohen Account” that they
made available to defense lawyers. The files are among a growing
amount of data, wiretap-recordings and e-mails involving hedge
funds, companies and individuals accumulated as part of the
government’s investigation.  The “Cohen Account” consists of the best trading ideas
unearthed by the 100 teams at Stamford, Connecticut-based SAC.
The portfolio managers and analysts submit their stock picks to
Cohen and his team, and if he uses them in his account -- and
they make money -- they get paid for their idea.  SAC, a hedge fund with $13 billion under management, has
come under scrutiny as part of the U.S. crackdown on illegal
stock-tipping at hedge funds, banks, technology companies and
expert networking firms, according to court records.  In February, prosecutors charged two former SAC portfolio
managers with insider trading while working at the fund.  Donald Longueuil pleaded guilty April 28 in Manhattan
federal court, telling a judge he “obtained material, non-
public information” from an accomplice in 2008 about  Marvell
Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  He isn’t cooperating with prosecutors.
Noah Freeman, who worked at SAC from June 2008 to January 2010,
pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a cooperation deal with
prosecutors.  Longueuil said during his plea hearing that he was part of
a conspiracy that encompassed his time at SAC. Other alleged
members of the conspiracy charged in the case included Samir
Barai, the founder of Barai Capital Management LP in  New York .  Barai’s assistant, Jason Pflaum, pleaded guilty in
December. Barai hasn’t entered a plea.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC, declined to
comment on the investigation. He previously said the firm was
cooperating with prosecutors and was “outraged” at the actions
of two former employees.  For more, click here.  Courts  Switzerland Is Sued at Human Rights Court Over UBS Data  Switzerland was sued at the  European Court of Human Rights 
by  UBS AG (UBSN)  clients for allegedly violating their privacy rights
in an agreement with the U.S. that allowed the disclosure of
their account data.  The court “received a number of applications concerning
the administrative assistance agreement between Switzerland and
the” U.S., the Strasbourg, France-based tribunal said in an e-
mailed statement May 6.  Switzerland agreed in 2009 to process account data for the
U.S. to help UBS, Switzerland’s biggest bank, settle a lawsuit
that sought information on as many as 52,000 clients suspected
of evading taxes.  An American UBS client, whose account data was disclosed to
U.S. authorities, sued Switzerland this week, Handelszeitung
reported May 5. The suit said there were violations of his right
to privacy, equal treatment and the presumption of innocence,
the Zurich newspaper said without identifying the plaintiff.  Folco Galli, spokesman for Switzerland’s Federal Office of
Justice, didn’t immediately answer calls to his office.  Should the court find a violation of the European
Convention of Human Rights, it could order Switzerland to
compensate the claimant, said John Temple Lang, a consultant at
 Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  in Brussels, who
specializes in European law.  HSBC, Barclays to Pay $2 Billion for Insurance Claims  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will set aside more than
$2 billion for customers improperly sold personal-loan insurance
after British banks abandoned a lawsuit to avoid paying
compensation.  Barclays will set aside 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) in
the second quarter, the London-based lender said in a statement
today. HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, made a $440
million provision in the first quarter, the bank said today.  The British Bankers’ Association today abandoned legal
attempts to overturn a court ruling that may force the industry
to pay more than 8 billion pounds.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
biggest provider of payment protection insurance, last week
broke ranks with competitors and earmarked 3.2 billion pounds to
settle claims with clients who bought the insurance, which
covers payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness
or unemployment.  Clients who bought the insurance rarely compared prices and
terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they
could have purchased it elsewhere, according to the Competition
Commission.  “We don’t always get things right for our customers,”
Barclays Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond said in the
statement. “When we get them wrong, we apologize and put them
right.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  may have to set aside 1
billion pounds, Deutsche Bank AG analyst Jason Napier said in a
report to clients last week. RBS said in a statement today it
was in talks with the Financial Services Authority, the
country’s financial watchdog, to clarify the requirements and
ensure “redress is offered in line with the standards the FSA
now requires.”  RBS said last week that the cost of following Lloyds and
paying compensation “could prove to be material.” It didn’t
provide a figure. The lender’s share of the PPI market was about
a third of Lloyds’s, according to Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Hester .  Ambac, Bankrupt Bond Insurer, Settles Subprime Assets Suit  Ambac Financial Group Inc. (ABK) , the bankrupt holding company
for a failed bond insurer, agreed to set aside $27.1 million to
resolve a 2008 lawsuit claiming it misled shareholders about
risks linked to subprime securities, according to a court
filing.  Investors alleged that Ambac issued misleading statements
about its financial results related to insurance for
collateralized debt obligations, or CDOs, according to a class-
action, or group, complaint, filed in January 2008 in federal
court in Manhattan. Ambac issued insurance on CDOs including
those backed by subprime mortgages.  There is no admission of wrongdoing in the settlement,
according to a court filing May 6.  The plaintiffs include Public School Teachers’ Pension &
Retirement Fund of Chicago, Arkansas Teacher Retirement System,
Public Employees’ Retirement System of Mississippi and Painting
Industry Insurance and Annuity Funds, according to court papers.  Among Ambac’s codefendants are underwriters of the
syndication of Ambac’s debt, including Citigroup Global Markets
Inc., UBS Securities LLC, Goldman, Sachs & Co., J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., Merrill Lynch,
Pierce, Fenner, & Smith Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets LLC.  Ambac previously paid $2.5 million into an escrow account
under a related agreement, according to court documents.  Ambac, reorganizing under Chapter 11 in U.S. Bankruptcy
court, has yet to file a plan of how it intends to restructure.  The case is In re Ambac Financial Group Inc. Securities
Litigation, 08-cv-00411, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Special Section: Helsinki Conference  King, Ingves, Others Speak at Helsinki Banking Conference  Bank of England Governor Mervyn King said officials must
focus more on lenders’ structure to improve both financial
stability and the operation of monetary policy.  He made the remarks at a banking conference in Helsinki May
6.  “In Europe we must pay more attention to the structure of
our banks and the state of their balance sheets not only for
financial stability but also for the conduct of monetary
policy,” King said in a speech in Helsinki May 6.  Officials on the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
should bear in mind banks’ tendency to “be over-optimistic as
to their future liquidity” as they decide on new capital
requirements, King said, citing former Bank of Finland Governor
Klaus Waris.  He also called on global authorities to cooperate as they
work to solve the problems caused by the financial crisis.  Separately, European Central Bank Governing Council member
Nout Wellink said while the global economy has recovered
“strongly” and is improving further, the “financial system is
still fragile” and uncertainty remains.  “It remains critical to strengthen resilience of the
global financial system,” by building up “buffers,” of
capital and liquidity in the banking system, Wellink said at
panel discussion in Helsinki May 6.  He also said a “timely implementation” of the Basel III
banking rules is “critical.”  Separately, capital requirements set by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision represent a compromise and tougher
minimum standards would be more appropriate for a number of
countries, Swedish central bank Governor Stefan Ingves said at
the conference.  “I’m not so sure that it’s proper for all countries to
adhere to those minimums,” Ingves said in a speech at the
conference. “In some instances it pays to go higher.”  Sweden wants its financial industry to follow stricter
standards than those set out by Basel, and to push the changes
through earlier. The Swedish Bankers Association has said it
will fight rules that undermine competitiveness, while  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA)  Chief Executive Office Christian Clausen has called the
plan “not realistic.”  Capital adequacy levels must ultimately be decided on the
national level, Ingves said.  “We are in a situation where it’s still the nation state
that is backing up the central bank,” he said. “It must be the
right of the nation state to decide on what the capital adequacy
should be.”  For more remarks by Ingves, click here.  For remarks by Mexico’s central bank Governor Agustin
Carstens, click here.  For remarks by Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer,
click here.  For remarks by European Central Bank Governing Council
member Ewald Nowotny, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  SEC’s Schapiro Urges More Scrutiny of High-Frequency Traders  High-frequency traders should face greater scrutiny from
U.S. regulators over practices like those that exacerbated a
stock-market plunge a year ago, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said May 6.  “High-frequency traders turned what was a very down day
for many investors into a very profitable one for themselves by
taking liquidity rather than providing it,” Schapiro said at an
Investment Company Institute conference in Washington, citing
the so-called flash crash of May 6, 2010, that temporarily
erased $862 billion in stock value. “Their activity that day
should cause us to thoroughly examine their current role.”  The SEC is making progress on changes spurred by the stock
plunge, Schapiro said. The agency must consider whether high-
frequency traders should have “the obligations of market
makers” in addition to responsibilities relating to the impact
of their technology and trading strategies on the markets, she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 