-- 
Australian Job Ads Advanced 1% in April, Rising for 12th Month, ANZ Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-05-09T01:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/australian-job-advertisements-advanced-1-in-april-anz-says.html
Australian job advertisements rose in
April for a 12th straight month as an  unemployment rate  below 5
percent spurs companies to recruit workers.  Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet advanced
1 percent from March, when they increased 1.3 percent, according
to an  Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report released
in Melbourne today.  Australia’s jobless rate probably held at 4.9 percent in
April, a government report will show on May 12, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 21 economists. Surging shipments of iron ore
and coal to  China  are driving economic growth in Australia and
increasing demand for workers, while a record currency lowers
import prices and  consumer spending  weakens.  “The Australian economy continues to create jobs in spite
of the diverse rates of economic activity by region and by
industry sector,” Ivan Colhoun, head of Australian economics
and property research at ANZ Bank, said in a statement today.  “Recent trends in job advertising exhibit a distinct
resources/two-speed economy,” he said. “Advertising has slowed
in New South  Wales , Victoria, Tasmania and the Australian
Capital Territory, and broadly strengthened in Queensland, in
spite of the floods, and the Northern Territory.”  Floods in Queensland in December and January affected about
30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged
crops. The state’s north was then hit by a cyclone in February.  In Western Australia, a center of the mining boom,
advertising has slowed in recent months from strong rates of
growth in the second half of 2010 and early 2011, “but remains
above national average growth rates,” Colhoun said.  National vacancies advertised in newspapers fell 3.4
percent in April, and Internet notices advanced 1.2 percent,
today’s report showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  