-- 
Bachmann Rocks ‘Ruling Class’ With Amens From Tea Party, Presidential Talk

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-09T16:48:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/bachmann-rocks-ruling-class-with-amens-from-tea-party-presidential-talk.html
Long before she entered national
politics,  Michele Bachmann  knew how to steal the show.  Two days after Bachmann’s 1999 defeat in a Stillwater,
 Minnesota , school board race, the mother of five attended a
meeting of hundreds of socially conservative activists opposed
to a law setting a statewide education curriculum.  She was only one of several speakers set to condemn the law
as a threat to local control of schools. Yet shortly after she
took the podium, cries of “Amen” echoed throughout the church
hall as Bachmann -- a former IRS lawyer who was billed on the
event flyer as “Dr. Bachmann” -- pulled out a copy of the  U.S.
Constitution  to show how, in her view, the law violated the
document, recalled Mary Cecconi, who had defeated her in the
school board race.  “She has never wavered from who she is,” said Cecconi,
the only person to beat Bachmann in an election. “And that’s
part of the appeal to her constituency.”  Since that first school board race, Bachmann -- who owns a
Christian therapy clinic and has been a foster parent for 23
children -- has shown a knack for grabbing the spotlight. That
talent has catapulted the once-obscure Republican congresswoman,
who arrived in Washington just four years ago, into a cable-
television regular, fundraising dynamo and Tea Party heroine.  Bachmann, 55, now is trying to leverage her status as an
uncompromising spokeswoman for  Republican Party  values such as
opposition to abortion and higher taxes into a presidential bid.  Campaign Threat  The jolt of energy she gives to party activists makes her a
threat on the campaign trail, an insurgent who has won the
devotion of social conservatives and drawn the wary attention of
the Republican establishment.  “Michele is a serious candidate for president,” said Vin Weber, a onetime Republican congressman from Minnesota who is an
adviser to former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty ’s presidential
exploratory committee. “She has an ability to connect with the
grassroots conservative base in the country in a way that very
few do.”  In the 2010 midterm campaign, she raised $13.5 million,
more than any other U.S. House candidate, including Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican. Among her donors were Citizens
United, a group that won a landmark Supreme Court case lifting
restrictions on corporate campaign spending, and other anti-tax
organizations, according to the  Center for Responsive Politics .  ‘Willing to Fight’  Sitting in a New Hampshire hotel lobby late last month,
Bachmann appeared eager to take on a bigger challenge.  “I am willing to fight for what I believe in, and that’s
one thing that people see,” she said in an interview, shortly
before addressing the state’s Republicans. “I’m not just there
to go along and get along.”  She’ll announce her presidential intentions in June, she
said, and is already working to establish campaign teams in
states with early nominating contests. She could have her
greatest impact in  Iowa , where 60 percent of those who attended
the state’s Republican caucuses in 2008 described themselves as
born-again or evangelical Christians, in entrance polls.  Bachmann has asked supporters to pray for her as she
considers whether to make a White House bid. “I am asking your
listeners now to please pray for me and my husband and my team,”
she said in a May 4 radio interview with Dan Celia of the
Financial Issues Stewardship Ministries, a  Christian group  that
encourages people to “think biblically” about their finances.  “Ask that the Lord will give us a special anointing of how
to put our team together, who those team people should be, that
he would bring those people to us,” Bachmann said.  ‘Formidable Candidate’  “She would be a formidable candidate in Iowa and in other
places, if she got in the race,” Pawlenty told reporters in
 South Carolina  on May 6.  Bachmann said her strategy is to marry support from those
voters in Iowa and South Carolina with Tea Party backers in  New
Hampshire . If that means challenging the Republican power
structure, she’s ready to do that.  “I have fought the political establishment and the ruling
class, whether that political establishment and ruling class was
in Minnesota or Washington,” she said, “whether they are in my
own party or the other party.”  ‘Crazy Eyes’  Still, she’d have to overcome challenges. Her unbroken
stare into the wrong camera while giving a televised Tea Party
response to President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address
in January was widely panned. The blog gawker.com said it was
the speech of a “Tea Party zombie” with “ crazy eyes .”  Her inflammatory comments -- she suggested during the 2008
presidential campaign that Obama may have “anti-American
views” and recently compared the national debt to the Holocaust
-- have raised questions about her credibility. In March, after
she placed the first battle of the Revolutionary War in New
Hampshire instead of  Massachusetts , columnist George Will
dismissed her as “not among the serious contenders” for the
White House.  And even as she condemns federal spending in  Washington , in
her district she wants to build a  bridge  to somewhere: a $633
million span over the St. Croix River that would connect
Stillwater with  Wisconsin ’s fastest-growing county.  The project would require federal and state money at a time
when Bachmann promotes the Tea-Party push to slash  government
spending .  “She’s not worried about the money, I guess,” said U.S.
Representative Betty McCollum, a Minnesota Democrat who backs
building a smaller bridge.  Lack of Legislation  Bachmann wields more power outside the U.S. Capitol than
within. She hasn’t shepherded any major legislation through the
House. And a search of congressional records turns up just three
resolutions in which she was the major sponsor that passed the
chamber -- honoring organizations that provide services for
foster children, the State of Minnesota’s 150th anniversary, and
“National Hydrocephalus Awareness Month.”  If Bachmann moves forward with a national campaign, the
scrutiny she faces will only grow.  Her loyalties rest with a tight-knit group of advisers,
including her husband, Marcus, political consultant Ed Brookover
and Andy Parrish, a long-time aide who currently is her
congressional chief of staff. On  Capitol Hill , she’s known for
shedding aides like the sneakers she wears to speed walk on the
National Mall for exercise. She has had five chiefs of staff in
four years.  ‘Unapologetic Conservatism’  She depends on a network of Republican-leaning media hosts
like Rush Limbaugh, who once praised her “unapologetic
conservatism,” and  Glenn Beck  to push her message and build her
brand.  Her firebrand style, often compared with that of former
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, comes as no surprise to those who
have watched her rise from anti-abortion activist to possible
presidential candidate.  Bachmann grew up in a family of Democrats, who moved from
Iowa to Minnesota, where she was later named Miss Congeniality
in the Miss Anoka competition.  Her conversion to Republicanism, she’s said, happened
during her senior year at Winona State University in Minnesota.
While she and Marcus had worked on President  Jimmy Carter ’s
campaign, Bachmann found herself increasingly disillusioned by
him in office and enthralled with  Ronald Reagan .  Abortion Protests  Her early political engagement began with protests at
clinics that performed abortions. She later received her law
degree from Oral Roberts University and worked as an attorney
representing the  Internal Revenue Service , the tax authority
that she now warns “may put 16,500 IRS agents in charge of
policing” Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Today, she lives in a congressional  district  that wraps
around the northern and eastern fringes of the Minneapolis- St.
Paul  metropolitan area. Her stone-exterior home is set amid a
secluded, wooded area that overlooks a golf course. The four-
bedroom, four-bathroom property was purchased for $760,000 in
2008, property records show. An American flag sits atop her
mailbox.  Bachmann & Associates , the clinic she owns with her
husband, who has a doctorate in clinical psychology, employs 25
therapists in two offices to provide “quality Christian
counseling,” which combines psychology with Christian teachings
and uses the Bible.  While Bachmann’s five biological children attended
religious schools in the area, the 23 foster children she has
taken in -- never more than five at a time and all girls --
attended public schools.  Bachmann said she was “troubled” by the material the
foster kids were bringing home because it lacked an “academic
foundation.”  In 1993, she helped start the New Heights School, one of
the first public  charter schools  in Minnesota.  ‘Aladdin’ Banned  Almost immediately, reports that the publicly funded school
was dabbling in religion began trickling home to parents. Denise
Stephens, the mother of a student, said a teacher banned the
Disney movie “ Aladdin ” because it depicted magic. An American
Indian-themed art project was nixed. And there was talk that the
special board created to help guide the school, which included
Bachmann, wanted to mandate prayer and a religious curriculum.  The school district started a fact-finding inquiry that
confirmed evidence the curriculum involved religion, according
to Stephens. At a packed public meeting, just three months after
the school opened, Bachmann and four other board members
resigned when presented with the parents’ concerns, Stephens
said.  ‘Same Path’  “She is still very much on the same path,” said Stephens,
a former Republican aide at the Minnesota statehouse.  Bachmann said she never tried to introduce a religious
curriculum, and that the board stepped down over an academic
disagreement. The school, she said, aimed to pair high-achieving
students with at-risk kids they could mentor. Her model, she
said, became quickly inverted with more high-risk students.  “We were trying to bring kids up, and instead it ended up
being a school focused on minimum level of achievement,” she
said.  She then joined with the Maple River Educational Coalition,
a homeschooling group interested in expanding school choice.
That’s when she became involved in the campaign to repeal
 Profile of Learning , the statewide curriculum.  First Bid  In 1999, Bachmann made her first bid for public office,
running for the school board overseeing the entire district on a
slate endorsed by the Republican Party, politicizing what had
typically been a nonpartisan race.  “A lot of people didn’t react well because of the partisan
nature,” said Washington County Commissioner  Bill Pulkrabek ,
who worked on her early campaigns.  Cecconi, the winner in the multicandidate race, recalled
that during one debate Bachmann falsely accused her of being
endorsed by Planned Parenthood.  “It was just lobbed out there to divert attention,” said
Cecconi, now executive director of St. Paul-based advocacy group
Parents United for Public Schools.  The following year, Bachmann ran for the state Senate, when
she challenged Gary Laidig, a Republican who had been in the
legislature for 28 years. Some Republicans didn’t appreciate
Bachmann taking on a fellow party member.  “You had this weird dynamic of Republicans fighting
Republicans,” he said. “I’ve been in politics in Minnesota
maybe 20 years and I’ve only seen it a handful of times.”  The activists packed the party convention, getting Bachmann
on the ballot. When she won the nomination, she acted surprised,
recalled Stephens. “It clearly wasn’t a surprise,” she said.  Active Lawmaker  Once in the state Senate, Bachmann became one of that
chamber’s most active lawmakers on social issues. Her first
success: the repeal of  Profile of Learning .  From 2003 through 2005, she unsuccessfully pushed for a
constitutional amendment that would bar the state from legally
recognizing same-sex marriage.  “She was out front on education and marriage,” said state
Senator  Sean Nienow , a former Bachmann district director who
also served in the legislature with her. Her focus broadened her
support among conservatives, even as she gained new enemies.  Dean Johnson , a Lutheran pastor and a former Republican
leader of the state Senate, said he prayed before returning a
reporter’s phone call to find strength to say something nice
about his former colleague. He found no such inspiration.  No ‘Team Player’  “I don’t think I ever served with anybody who I mistrusted
more, from either side of the aisle,” said Johnson, now a
member of the University of Minnesota’s Board of Regents. “She
would tell you one thing and do another. She’s not a team
player.”  Johnson, who eventually became a Democrat, recalled how he
told Bachmann one day in 2004 that he needed to leave the
 capitol  in St. Paul early because his wife, who later died of
cancer, was in a hospital intensive care unit and he needed to
be with her. He said Bachmann never mentioned she would be
traveling that night to an event in his district to back a state
constitutional amendment banning gay marriage that he opposed.  “It seemed kind of backhanded in one of my dark days,” he
said. Bachmann said she didn’t remember the incident.  She acknowledged her flaws during her first run for
Congress in 2006, a campaign she described as a mission from God
and which she won with 50 percent of the vote.  “I am a very flawed, imperfect person,” she told one
audience, according to the St. Cloud Times newspaper. “It isn’t
about imposing my values on other people. It’s that I feel God
has given me the opportunity to help other people. That’s why
I’m running.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Stillwater, Minnesota at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 