-- 
Bank Bail-in Bonds May Avert ‘Systemic Trauma,’ IIF Says

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k   a n d   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 
2011-05-09T16:24:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/bank-bail-in-bonds-could-help-avert-systemic-trauma-iif-says.html
Bank bail-in bonds could help avoid
the “systemic trauma” caused by the disorderly failure of
large financial firms, the  Institute of International Finance 
lobby group said.  Rules for bail-in securities would force bond investors in
failing banks to take losses so governments aren’t forced to tap
taxpayer funds for bailouts. National regulators should agree to
consistent rules on how to resolve failing banks, the IIF wrote
in a report published today. The group represents more than 400
financial firms from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to  Credit Suisse Group AG. (CSGN)   “The general objectives of bail-in arrangements should be
to create conditions where any financial firm may be
restructured in an orderly failure in the event it is no longer
able to meet its obligations,” Credit Suisse Chairman Urs Rohner said at a press conference in London today.  Bail-in legislation would create a form of Chapter 11
process for banks that would allow firms to gain time in a
restructuring by swapping debt for equity, said Gerry Cross, the
IIF’s deputy director of regulation. Bail-in laws would allow
regulators to make banks convert bond liabilities into equity,
which they don’t have to repay to investors, he said.  “Bail-in can forestall precipitous loss of value and
systemic shock by recapitalizing the firm and allowing it to be
restructured,” the IIF said in its report. “The objective of
any resolution tools should not be the survival of a failing
firm per se, but rather allowing firms to fail in an orderly way
without any cost to taxpayers.”  Resolution Regimes  Bail-in legislation needs to be coordinated internationally
because impairing the rights of bond investors raises different
legal questions across jurisdictions, the IIF wrote in the
report. National regulators should agree to consistent rules on
how to resolve failing banks, the lobby group said.  “National resolution regimes must form consistent and
convergent components of an international framework for the
resolution of cross-border firms,” the IIF said.  Regulators have the “primary responsibility” for the
resolution of failed banks, while firms should provide the
information necessary for effective planning, the IIF said.  When regulators plan for the continuity of banks’ critical
functions, they shouldn’t consider “as a matter of course”
changing their organizational structures by breaking up firms up
or forcing them to turn their units into stand-alone
subsidiaries, the IIF said.  The U.K.’s Independent Commission on Banking recommended in
April that the country’s biggest banks implement plans for an
orderly bankruptcy and erect fire breaks around their consumer
units in what it termed “moderate” proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Clark in  London  at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net 
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
 Paul Armstrong  at   Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  