-- 
Barclays Will Get $1.1 Billion From Trustee Liquidating Lehman’s Brokerage

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-05-09T21:48:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/barclays-will-get-1-1-billion-from-trustee-liquidating-lehman-s-brokerage.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , which bought Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s North American business, will get $1.1
billion in trading assets from the trustee liquidating the
remnants of Lehman’s brokerage, the trustee’s lawyer said.  The assets were held in so-called clearance boxes to clear
trades and should have been transferred to the London-based bank
in September 2008, according to court papers.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck declined to rule today at
a  Manhattan  court hearing on a continuing dispute over so-called
margin assets, saying the issue needed “some thought.” He said
he would set a date for another hearing after completing his
deliberations, which “shouldn’t take very long.”  Brokerage trustee James Giddens last week demanded $2.1
billion in margin assets from Barclays, plus interest at 9
percent. Peck said today that the demand for margin, or deposits
held to back trades, was “consistent” with a February ruling
he made ordering Barclays to pay or return any cash it had taken
in the deal.  He made the comments after hearing arguments from Barclays’
lawyer  David Boies  and William Maguire, a lawyer for the
brokerage trustee, who said negotiations over the dispute had
reached “the end of the road.”  Barclays understood the order to exclude noncash margin,
Boies told the judge. Of a total of about $4 billion in margin,
$1.5 billion was securities maturing in more than three months,
according to Barclays. About $640 million of noncash margin had
maturities of longer than 15 years, Boies told the judge.  ‘Never Presented’  “Why didn’t this come up at trial?” Peck asked Boies.
“It was never presented to me that some of the margin was
invested in long-term government securities.”  Boies said the bank believed “the basic argument” at the
trial was over whether Barclays should pay cash and cash
equivalents, as the judge had said it mustn’t take any cash in
the deal.  Maguire said the trustee fought for the margin during the
trial and maintained that Barclays wasn’t entitled to any
 government securities , whether they matured in months, “or in
90 years.”  Peck’s ruling followed a trial last year that involved a
three-way fight, with lawyer Boies representing Barclays, the
U.K.’s third-biggest bank. Barclays said it was owed $3 billion
on the brokerage purchase, and the trustee demanded about $7
billion from Barclays. The New York-based Lehman parent company
sought an alleged $11 billion “windfall” it said Barclays made
on the purchase.  Paying Bonuses  Peck denied the Lehman parent’s claim and reduced the
trustee’s right to assets. A ruling that failed to specify who
owed what to whom left Barclays and the brokerage disputing as
much as $3.5 billion in assets.  Lehman wrote a letter to the judge on April 29, saying it
was claiming $500 million from Barclays for allegedly failing to
pay all of the bonuses the U.K. bank agreed to when it bought
the defunct investment firm’s business. Barclays has said it
paid all the promised bonuses and other compensation.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 