-- 
BC Partners Buys 78.7% of Retailer Coin, Will Make Bid on Rest of Company

-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 
2011-05-09T09:20:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/bc-partners-buys-coin-stake-valuing-italian-chain-at-930-million-euros.html
BC Partners  Ltd., a London-based
private-equity firm, bought a controlling stake in  Gruppo Coin
SpA (GCN)  and said it plans to bid for the rest in a deal that would
value the Italian department-store chain at 930 million euros
($1.3 billion.)  BC Partners agreed to pay PAI Partners 645 million euros
for a 69.3 percent stake and an additional 87.8 million euros
for a 9.4 stake, the companies said in a joint statement today.
BC Partners offered to pay 6.50 euros a share for the rest.
That’s an 8.5 percent discount to Coin’s May 6 closing price.  “Gruppo Coin is ideally positioned to continue its growth
in all formats achieved in past six years,” said Nikos Stathopoulos, BC Partners’ managing partner, in the statement,
citing the company’s market-leading position.  PAI sought to sell Coin after a five-year investment during
which it added stores and revamped the company’s discount-
clothing unit. Under PAI, Coin went from a loss in 2005 to a
profit of 48.20 million euros last year. PAI, a private-equity
firm based in Paris, bought 63 percent of Coin from the
retailer’s founding family in 2005 for more than 181 million
euros and later increased its holding.  “Going forward, Gruppo Coin might have less room to
outperform the retail sector,” said Francesca Ferragina, an
analyst at Cheuvreux in a note today, noting that the offer
price was below her expectations of 8 euros a share. She
suggested investors should sell their stock, given the limited
upside.  Coin shares fell as much as 9.5 percent to 6.43 euros a
share in Milan, the lowest price since Sept. 15. They traded at
6.45 euros a share at 11:13 a.m. today and have fallen 17
percent this year.  Private-Equity Pickup  Private-equity firms are buying and selling companies to
each other after the financial crisis brought the pace of deal-
making to a near-halt for two years, preventing them from
investing or returning cash to investors. Firms have led $117
billion of acquisitions this year, up 60 percent from the same
period in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  PAI, which manages a 2.7 billion-euro buyout fund, is also
selling engineering company Spie and French insurance broker
CEP, after entering exclusive talks to sell its stake in yogurt
maker Yoplait to General Mills in March and agreeing to sell
U.K. tire retailer Kwik-Fit Group Ltd. to Itochu Corp this year.  BC Partners in March raised 4 billion euros for a new fund
while seeking another 2 billion euros. The London firm agreed to
buy U.K. mobile-phone retailer Phones 4u from Providence Equity
Partners LLC and is in talks to purchase U.K. cinema chain Odeon
from  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd., two people
with knowledge of the matter said in April.  Today’s purchase comes amid consolidation in the Italian
retail sector. La Rinascente, which operates Italian department
stores including one overlooking Milan’s 14th century cathedral,
last week received a 250 million-euro offer from  Thailand ’s
Central Retail Corp. Ltd., according to two people familiar with
the mater.  PAI was advised by UBS AG and Mediobanca - Banca di Credito
Finanziario, according to the statement. BC Partners was advised
by Bank of America Merrill Lynch Corp. and HSBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 