-- 
Cyclist Weylandt’s Team Remains in Tour of Italy After His Death in Crash

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-05-10T16:46:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/belgian-cyclist-weylandt-is-killed-during-downhill-stage-of-giro-d-italia.html
Belgian cyclist  Wouter Weylandt ’s
team rode today in the  Giro d’Italia  after the 26-year-old died
in yesterday’s third stage when his bike hit a wall, sending him
crashing into the road.  The Leopard-Trek squad will continue the race, which ends
in Milan on May 29. To respect Weylandt’s memory, teams didn’t
compete in today’s Genoa-Livorno fourth stage, riding as a
procession over the 216-kilometer (134-mile) course.  The Leopard-Trek squad was joined by U.S. rider Tyler
Farrar of the Garmin-Cervelo team in leading the field across
the finish line today with the nine men riding side-by-side and
embracing each other around the shoulders. Farrar, a sprint
specialist who was close to Weylandt and regularly trained with
him, will leave the Giro and return to  Belgium .  Weylandt struck his head on a descent about 25 kilometers
from the end of the 173-kilometer stage between  Reggio
nell’Emilia and Rapallo . He was “catapulted to the other side
of the road” after his handlebars or left pedal hit a small
wall, the VeloNews website  reported , citing an eyewitness
account from RadioShack rider Manuel Cardoso.  Doctors couldn’t revive Weylandt, Giro spokesman Matteo
Cavazzuti said by telephone. An autopsy revealed he suffered
fatal skull and facial injuries, Italian news agency ANSA
reported today.  Mandatory Helmets  “The team is left in a state of shock and sadness, and we
send all our thoughts and condolences to the family and friends
of Wouter,” the Leopard-Trek team said in a statement on its
 website . “This is a difficult day for cycling and for our
team.”  The last rider to die at one of cycling’s top three-week
races was Italy’s Fabio Casartelli, who wasn’t wearing a helmet
in a fatal fall at the 1995 Tour de  France .  Wearing a helmet became mandatory in professional cycling
in 2003. Cyclists can reach speeds as high as 60 miles per hour
on descents.  In 2009,  Spain ’s Pedro Horillo sustained a punctured lung
and multiple fractures after plunging down a ravine on a stage
of the Giro. Riders protested against unsafe conditions after
Horillo’s crash. Yesterday, competitors weighed in on Weylandt’s
accident.  “Things like this shouldn’t happen,” British cyclist  Mark Cavendish  wrote on his Twitter  page . “Absolutely sick to my
stomach.”  Weylandt became a professional rider with the Quick-Step
team in 2004 and won the third stage of last year’s Giro with
the squad.  Leopard-Trek is in its first year and is led by two-time
Tour de France runner-up  Andy Schleck  and his brother Frank, who
are from Luxembourg.  Angel Vicioso of Spain won yesterday’s stage, while
Britain’s David Millar took the pink jersey as the race’s
overall leader.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  