-- 
Berkshire Will Record $1.25 Billion Gain on Goldman Redemption

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 
2011-05-09T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/berkshire-will-record-1-25-billion-gain-on-goldman-redemption.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  said it expects a $1.25 billion pretax gain in the second
quarter and lower investment income in future periods after its
$5 billion investment in  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  was redeemed.  Berkshire was paid $5.5 billion for the securities on April
18, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said late on May 6 in its
first-quarter earnings report. The payment by Goldman Sachs
includes the $5 billion Berkshire invested in 2008 and a 10
percent premium.  “We anticipate our investment income for the second
quarter of 2011, and likely beyond, will decline compared with
2010, given the relatively low yields currently available from
new investment opportunities,” Berkshire said. Goldman Sachs
paid dividends of 10 percent before the redemption.  Buffett, 80, Berkshire’s chairman and chief executive
officer, is accumulating cash and seeking acquisitions as almost
record-low  interest rates  limit fixed-income returns. The firm’s
cash rose to $41.2 billion on March 31, the highest quarter-
ending total since 2007. That balance may gain with the Goldman
Sachs redemption and the expected repayment by  General Electric
Co. (GE)  of a $3 billion investment.  “That money is earning virtually nothing now,” Buffett,
speaking at Berkshire’s April 30 annual meeting, said of the
cash received from New York-based Goldman Sachs. “We have lost
or are losing at least three very-high-yield investments that we
cannot replace.”  $1 Billion Dividend  Berkshire collected about $3.9 billion from Swiss
Reinsurance Co. on Jan. 10, according to the earnings report.
The payment ended a 2009 investment that garnered Buffett’s firm
dividends of 12 percent. Berkshire, which holds cash and
securities to support liabilities at the company’s insurance
subsidiaries, made the Goldman Sachs, GE and Swiss Re
investments during the credit crisis when traditional sources of
financing retreated.  Berkshire is taking a $1 billion dividend this month from
its Burlington Northern Santa Fe subsidiary, the railroad unit
said in a separate May 6 filing.  Fort Worth , Texas-based
Burlington Northern, which Berkshire bought in a $26.5 billion
deal last year, paid $1 billion in dividends to its parent in
the first quarter.  “The cash is just coming in like gangbusters, and that’s a
high-class problem to have,” said  Paul Howard , director of
research at Solstice Investment Research in Glastonbury,
 Connecticut . Buffett “is setting expectations low on the
upcoming quarter and coming quarters for the investment-income
number.”  Underwriting Loss  Net investment income at Berkshire’s insurance businesses
fell 3.6 percent to $952 million in the first quarter, the
company said. Berkshire announced detailed results for the
period in the filing after issuing a preliminary report on April
30. Net income dropped to $1.51 billion from $3.63 billion a
year earlier as the insurance segment posted an underwriting
loss of $821 million.  “Over time, if we’re going to keep your money, we are
going to need to get a better-than-average return,” Buffett,
who doesn’t pay dividends to Berkshire shareholders, said at the
company’s annual meeting. “So far we’ve done OK on that, but
the job gets tougher every year.”  The yield on two-year U.S. Treasuries slid for seven
consecutive trading days through May 6 to 0.549 percent. The
yield hit a record low of 0.31 percent on Nov. 4. The two-year
note’s average yield over the past 10 years was more than 2.5
percent.  Berkshire paid about $1.5 billion in cash in the first
quarter to raise its stake in Marmon Holdings Inc. to 80 percent
from about 64 percent. The company plans to spend about $9
billion in cash in the third quarter to acquire Lubrizol Corp.,
the Wickliffe, Ohio-based maker of engine additives.  Wells Fargo, Kraft  First quarter profit was reduced by $506 million on charges
tied to declines in the value of stakes in San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , based in Northfield,
 Illinois . The Securities and Exchange Commission questioned
Berkshire in December about its equity holdings. The firm told
the regulator in February that it didn’t write down those
holdings last year because it expected both stocks to recover.  The charges were required by accounting rules and produced
an “odd result” in erasing Berkshire’s unrealized losses on
the Wells Fargo shares and leaving the company with an
unrealized gain of $3.7 billion on the stake, the firm said. The
unrealized gains are the difference between market price and the
value ascribed by Berkshire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 