-- 
BGK, State-Owned Polish Bank, Selling Dollars on Market, Three Traders Say

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-05-09T14:12:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/bgk-state-owned-polish-bank-selling-dollars-on-market-three-traders-say.html
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the
state-owned Polish bank, sold U.S. dollars in exchange for zloty
for a second day as the  Finance Ministry  said it may convert
proceeds from debt sales in foreign currencies on the market.  The lender, known as BGK, sold $10 million each to at least
two banks, two Warsaw-based traders involved in the transactions
said today declining to be identified because of their employers
policy. They bought the same amounts on May 6. A third trader
said the bank offered to sell him dollars today. He declined to
give the size of the trade.  Poland also began converting euros received from the
European Union on the market, Finance Minister Jacek Rostowski
said last week. The zloty has advanced 3.4 percent against the
dollar this quarter, the second-steepest gain among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It rallied to
an 11-week high against the euro today.  “They are clearly telling the market - we want a stronger
zloty,” Baron Chan, currency strategist at Credit Suisse AG,
said by phone from  London . “The central bank also wants to see
a stronger zloty so they won’t have to raise  interest rates  as
much as the market expects.”  Investors in interest-rate derivatives have pared their
bets for borrowing cost increases since the ministry said on
April 21 that it plans to sell EU funds on the market. Two-year
interest rate swaps fell to 5.14 percent today. It is now the
lowest compared with the central bank’s main rate of 4 percent
since Oct. 13, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Ease Pressure  The government will this year exchange as much as 14
billion euros ($20.2 billion) for the zloty, acting through BGK,
Deputy Finance Minister  Dominik Radziwill  said on April 21. The
sales “may ease pressure to increase interest rates,” reduce
volatility and absorb liquidity on the  interbank market ,
Rostowski said at a conference on the same day.  Poland may also convert proceeds from the sale of bonds in
foreign currencies on the market, Piotr Marczak, a director at
the Finance Ministry’s public debt department said in an e-
mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News. The government
raised $1 billion from the sale of 10-year bonds last month.  Marczak declined to say whether the ministry sold dollars
last week. Piotr Stalega, a spokesman for Warsaw-based BGK, said
he couldn’t comment on the bank’s currency transaction when
reached on his mobile phone today. BGK may trade the currency
from its own account as well as on the Finance Ministry’s
behalf.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  