-- 
Blood Clot Screening of Lungs Leads to ‘Overdiagnosis,’ Researchers Find

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-05-09T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/blood-clot-screening-of-lungs-leads-to-overdiagnosis-researchers-find.html
New screening technology that led to
more blood clots being found in the lungs can’t always detect
which ones may be fatal, causing some patients to undergo
unnecessary treatment, researchers said.  The U.S. incidence rate for pulmonary embolism increased 81
percent during the first eight years after the high-resolution
scanning was introduced in 1998. The mortality rate declined 3
percent over that period, suggesting more patients with non-
life-threatening clots are being diagnosed, a team led by  Renda
Soylemez Wiener , a professor at the  Boston University School of
Medicine , reported today in the  Archives of Internal Medicine .  The scans, called multidetector row computed tomographic
pulmonary angiography, are detecting clots that don’t always
need treatment, which has led to “overdiagnosis” and to
patients being subjected to blood-thinning drugs like warfarin
that won’t help and may be harmful, wrote Wiener and her
colleagues. Medical-device makers including Fairfield,
Connecticut-based  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich
sell CT scanners.  “Rather than an epidemic of disease, we think the
increased incidence of PE reflects an epidemic of diagnostic
testing that has created overdiagnosis,” the authors wrote.
“Much of the increased incidence in PE consists of cases that
are clinically unimportant.”  Hospitals that spend as much as $2 million to purchase a CT
scanner have a financial incentive to test as many patients as
possible, which drives up costs for the U.S. health care system,
said  Shannon Brownlee , the acting director of health policy at
the  New America Foundation , a Washington-based research
organization.  Expensive Machines  “These machines are very, very expensive so if you invest
that much money in one of these things, you’re darn sure the
hospital administrator wants lots of patients to be running
through them to pay them off,” Brownlee said by telephone.  Spending by Medicare, the U.S. health program for the
elderly and disabled, on medical imaging services including
computed tomography scans rose 17 percent annually from 2000 to
2006, and overall imaging expenditures more than doubled to $14
billion a year, according to a 2008  report  by the Government
Accountability Office in Washington. The proportion of Medicare
beneficiaries undergoing CT scans rose 39 percent during those
years, the GAO reported.  The screenings are conducted with the same machines used at
hospitals for other types of scans, Wiener said in a telephone
interview. Prior to 1998, CT scanners lacked the resolution to
detect blood clots in the lung, she said.  Finding More Clots  Researchers found that the incidence of pulmonary embolism
increased to 112 cases per 100,000 U.S. adults between 1998 and
2006, compared with the rate in 1993 through 1998. The  mortality
rate  associated with the ailment declined to 11.9 deaths per
100,000 U.S. adults during the later period.  The study is based on an analysis of data compiled by the
 National Center for Health Statistics , which is managed by the
Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  Blood clots in lungs are typically treated with
anticoagulants. Scans don’t always reveal whether the embolism
has the potential to harm a patient, Wiener said. “It is
currently our best test to diagnose PE and many PEs are
clinically significant and do need to be treated,” she said.
Doctors should “think more carefully” about when a test and
treatments are necessary, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 