-- 
Republicans Rule Out Tax Increases in Battle With Democrats Over Debt Cap

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-05-10T12:26:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/boehner-to-say-would-be-irresponsible-to-allow-u-s-default.html
Republican congressional leaders are
ruling out tax increases or a wider revenue base in talks on
extending the U.S. government’s borrowing authority, creating a
conflict with Democrats who would raise more money as well as
cut spending.  House Speaker  John Boehner  staked out the Republican
position by telling the  Economic Club of New York  that “raising
taxes is off the table” because “it will have a devastating
impact on our economy.” Boehner predicted that Congress would
act on a broader revision of the  tax code  in the next two years,
though he said that Republicans wouldn’t support it “as a way
of increasing taxes on the American people or enterprises.”  Boehner’s comments last night came two days after the
Senate’s No. 2 Republican,  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona , said a tax-code
overhaul should be kept “totally off the table” of the debt-
limit talks because eliminating  tax deductions  and exclusions to
raise more revenue would be tantamount to raising taxes.  Meantime, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget
Committee,  Kent Conrad  of  North Dakota , said any plan to reduce
long-term government debt must include tax increases along with
spending cuts. A “credible plan” to reduce the debt cannot be
“just on the spending side of the equation,” he told reporters
in Washington yesterday.  Addressing an audience of Wall Street leaders, Boehner said
that “without significant spending cuts and reforms to reduce
our debt, there will be no debt limit increase.” Spending cuts
“should be greater” than the amount of the “increase in debt
authority” given to President  Barack Obama , he said.  ‘Draconian’ Spending Cuts  During a question-and-answer session following his remarks,
Boehner acknowledged the accuracy of Blackstone Group LP co-
founder  Peter G. Peterson ’s characterization of the spending
cuts proposed by House Republicans. “You’re right, they are
draconian,” he said.  That’s because without Democratic support for overhauling
Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, deeper cuts are required
elsewhere, Boehner said.  Boehner, Kyl and other Republican leaders say the House-
passed plan to privatize Medicare for future recipients -- those
now younger than age 55 -- won’t be part of a bargain on the
debt limit.  Spending cuts, not tax increases, are the only option to
reduce the debt because “raising taxes will hurt our economy,”
Boehner, an Ohio Republican, said. “We do not have a revenue
problem; we have a spending problem. Let’s address the spending
problem.”  Stimulus and Jobs  He said the 2009 stimulus program “hampered  job creation 
in our country” even with promises that “it would create
millions of new jobs.”  His contention is at odds with the  Congressional Budget
Office  findings last August that the stimulus package increased
the number of people employed by between 1.4 million and 3.3
million and cut unemployment by between 0.7 percentage point and
1.8 percentage point.  The speaker also repeated an assertion made by  House
Republicans  that their plan to privatize Medicare will give
future recipients “the same kinds of options that members of
Congress currently have.”  The Congressional Budget Office projected in an April 5
report that under the Republican plan, by 2030 the government
would pay 32 percent of the health-care costs of a typical 65-
year-old. The U.S. Office of Personnel Management’s benefit
handbook says the government pays 75 percent of the health-care
costs of federal workers, including members of Congress.  More Talks Today  Negotiations led by Vice President  Joe Biden  resume today
among congressional leaders, including Kyl and House Majority
Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican.  “I am guarded in my optimism” about the discussions, Cantor
said today on Bloomberg Television. “There needs to be an
acceptance that we’re going to have to do some tough things.”  One possible area of agreement may be the duration of the
debt-limit extension. Conrad suggested a short-term increase
through year’s end to give lawmakers a chance to approve a plan.
Boehner said there is “no hard date” for raising the debt
ceiling.  The Treasury Department says the U.S. will reach the debt
limit of $14.29 trillion as early as May 16. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  has said he can use “extraordinary measures”
to continue borrowing money through Aug. 2.  In his appearance before Wall Street financiers, Boehner
was challenged to give investors enough assurance that the U.S.
won’t default on its obligations without undermining his
bargaining position in the debt-limit talks.  ‘Somewhat Uneasy’  “I know there are a lot of you in this room who are
somewhat uneasy with this debate,” he said. “I understand your
concerns.”  “Allowing America to default would be irresponsible,” he
added. “But it would be more irresponsible to raise the debt
ceiling without simultaneously taking dramatic steps to reduce
spending and reform the budget process.”  Boehner “threw down the gauntlet on this debate” and the
“markets will be nervous” until the issue is resolved, said
Mickey Levy, chief economist at Bank of America Corp. Still,
“both sides know they will not stop servicing the debt.”  Philip J. Orlando, chief equity-market strategist at
Federated Global Investment Management Corp., said the House
speaker may not have allayed market concerns.  ‘Foregone Conclusion’  Still, “it’s a foregone conclusion the debt limit is going
up,” he said.  “What I wanted to hear was there was a stronger quid pro
quo” for raising it and Boehner showed the political
“backbone” of someone “true to sound economic principles of
trying to keep taxes low to try to stimulate the economy and
bring spending in line,” Orlando said.  The refusal by Republicans to consider ending what Kyl
termed “so-called tax expenditures” makes it difficult to
achieve agreement on large deficit cuts, said  Jim Kessler , vice
president for public policy at Third Way, a  Washington  group
that describes itself as advocating “moderate policy.”  If “it’s a true line in the sand they’ve drawn, it makes
it impossible to get a major deal. It’s only small potatoes,”
Kessler said. “This may just be a negotiating position by
Kyl.”  In a May 7 radio interview, Kyl rejected the idea of a tax-
code overhaul that eliminates a number of tax breaks.  ‘Off the Table’  “When you do that, somebody’s taxes actually go up,” he
told broadcaster Larry Kudlow on New York’s WABC radio. “And so
the focus here is to keep taxes totally off the table.”  “It’s becoming increasingly clear that the political stars
aren’t in alignment for a large structural deal,” said William Galston, an analyst at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington
and a former policy adviser to Democratic President  Bill Clinton .  Amid debate about the deficit in Washington, bond market
yields in the U.S. are lower now than when the government was
running a  budget surplus  a decade ago. The yield on the
benchmark 10-year note is below the average of 5.48 percent in
1998 through 2001, the last time the U.S. had a budget surplus,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields on 10-year
notes increased less than one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 3.16 percent at 7:33 a.m. in  New York , according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in New York at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laurie Asseo at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net  