-- 
Boeing 787 Nears Service as FAA Backs Rolls-Royce Engine

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-05-10T00:13:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/boeing-787-moves-toward-service-as-faa-backs-rolls-royce-engine.html
Boeing Co. (BA) ’s 787 Dreamliner moved a
step closer to entering passenger service with U.S. regulators’
approval of the jet’s Rolls-Royce Plc engine for long-range
flights, including those over oceans.  The  Federal Aviation Administration  certified the Trent
1000 engine for extended operations, or ETOPS, meaning it can
fly as far as 5 1/2 hours away from the closest airport, London-
based Rolls-Royce said today in a  statement . The plane itself
still must get the same certification before service can begin.  The Trent 1000 is one of two engines that Chicago-based
Boeing is offering for the Dreamliner and will be used on the
first of the jets to enter service. Boeing’s plastic-composite
787 was marketed to airlines for its ability to fly long
distances more efficiently. The Dreamliner is running three
years behind schedule and now is due for its initial delivery by
September, pending full FAA certification after other tests.  “You have to have both the plane and the engine,” said
 Howard Rubel , an analyst with Jefferies & Co. in  New York . “But
this is a good thing. From what I understand, once you see ETOPS
testing light up, then you know you’re in the last lap.”  Boeing is working toward approval for extended operations
with the plane and engines combined, said  Lori Gunter , a
spokeswoman in Everett,  Washington , where the 787s are built. It
also still needs to complete function and reliability testing as
well as a week of “service-ready operation validation” in
 Japan , where the company will operate the Dreamliner with its
first customer, All Nippon Airways, Gunter said.  The Seattle Post-Intelligencer reported the Rolls-Royce
approval earlier today.  FAA Concerns  The FAA had expressed concerns over the plane’s engine and
electrical-system reliability after a fire in a power panel
during a test flight in November.  All Nippon plans to use its first Dreamliners on domestic
routes, so the initial 787s that are delivered will be certified
to fly only as much as three hours away from an airfield, Gunter
said. The company will work its way up to the full 5 1/2-hour
certification before any of its customers need that much, she
said.  General Electric Co. (GE)  makes the other engines that Boeing is
offering on the Dreamliner. Japan Airlines Corp. is set to be
the first carrier to fly with those.  Rolls-Royce’s engines were one of the snags Boeing has
experienced over the past year and a half of test flights on the
Dreamliner. Boeing delayed the plane’s entry into service for
the sixth of seven times in August, saying Rolls-Royce wasn’t
able to supply an engine to finish flight testing. A Trent 1000
had blown up on a test bed 3 1/2 weeks earlier, forcing the
manufacturer to close the site for repairs.  Boeing also had to park one of the Dreamliner test planes
in September to replace one of its Rolls-Royce engines following
a power surge before a takeoff during trials in  New Mexico .
Boeing said the two incidents were unrelated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  