-- 
Colombia’s Nutresa May Sell $300 Million of Shares as Soon as Next Month

-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 
2011-05-09T22:36:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/brazil-s-nutresa-may-sell-300-million-of-new-shares-as-soon-as-this-month.html
(Correct to say in headline and first paragraph that sale
may happen as soon as June.)  Grupo Nutresa SA, Colombia’s biggest
food producer, plans to sell new shares as soon as June to fund
acquisitions in the U.S. or  Latin America , Chairman Carlos Enrique Piedrahita said.  The company, formerly known as Grupo Nacional de
Chocolates, intends to sell as many as 25 million shares in the
coming weeks, Piedrahita said in a telephone interview from his
Medellin office today. The issuance is expected to raise as much
as $300 million, said Mauricio Restrepo del Toro, head of
research at Bogota-based Bolsa y Renta, which is organizing the
sale.  “It could be before the end of the first half,”
Piedrahita said.  Nutresa is one of at least seven Colombian companies
raising a record $3.7 billion through share sales this year as
the country’s economy grows at the fastest rate since 2007 and
it prepares to combine its stock market with  Chile ’s and  Peru ’s,
said Cesar Cuervo, senior analyst at brokerage Correval SA.  “Our two goals with the share issuance are to give the
company more resources to continue its expansion and to give
more liquidity to Grupo Nutresa,” Piedrahita said.  More Acquisitions  After spending $132 million on acquisitions in the past
year, Nutresa will use the share sale proceeds for additional
potential purchases in meat, chocolate, cookies and ice cream in
the U.S., Caribbean, Central America or Andean regions,
Piedrahita said.  Nutresa is likely to have a more than 10 percent increase
in 2011 sales, he said. The company had 2010 consolidated sales
of 4.5 trillion pesos ($2.5 billion), a 2.8 percent drop from
the previous year. Shares have risen 4.7 percent in the past 12
months.  First-quarter sales rose 12.6 percent to 1.15 trillion
pesos, largely from increases in overseas sales after it bought
U.S.-based cookie maker Fehr Holdings LLC for $84 million and
became majority shareholder in Bogota-based coffee exporter
Industrias Aliadas SA for $8.9 million. Both deals were in the
second half of 2010.  The company also purchased a 73 percent stake in the
 Dominican Republic ’s largest ice cream maker, Helados Bon SA,
for $38.7 million in February.  “We’ve made 15 acquisitions in the last decade,”
Piedrahita said. “We want to continue our international
expansion in our strategic region that ranges from the U.S. to
Peru.”  Venezuela  Sales  Revenue dropped last year after Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  devalued the bolivar, Piedrahita said. Venezuela
accounted for 7 percent of revenue last year, down from 14
percent in 2009. The U.S. accounted for 9 percent of revenue,
the most by country after Colombia.  This year’s first-quarter profit fell 17.1 percent to 57.6
billion pesos as the company’s margins were “squeezed by sky-
high commodity prices” and heavy rains, said  Andres Jimenez ,
head of international sales at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s largest
brokerage.  “They have to take it on the chin because nobody eats ice
cream when it’s raining,” Jimenez said. “The rains also are
impacting, coffee and cocoa production and logistics of the
company.”  Nutresa changed its name from Grupo Nacional de Chocolates
in March to reflect the company’s wider range of products,
Piedrahita said.  Brand Names  The company has 44 businesses in 12 countries, exports to
74 countries, and has about 30,000 employees. Brands include Sun
Valley and Lil’ Dutch Maid cookies, Pozuelo in  Costa Rica  and
Compania Nacional de Chocolates in Colombia.  The annual record raised through share sales on  Colombia ’s
bourse was $2.8 billion in 2007 on the initial public offering
of Ecopetrol, Colombia’s largest oil company, Correval’s Cuervo
said. The state-run Ecopetrol is to issue up to 10 percent of
shares as early as this year in a proposal pending congressional
approval.  The boards of Colombian and Peruvian stock exchanges
approved plans to merge the two exchanges on April 28. Trading
is to begin on the Andean exchange, known as MILA, on May 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  