-- 
BSkyB Seeks Reversal of Regulator’s ‘Dramatic’ Intrusion on Soccer Prices

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-05-09T15:57:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/bskyb-seeks-reversal-of-regulator-s-dramatic-intrusion-on-soccer-prices.html
British Sky Broadcasting Plc, the
U.K.’s biggest pay-television provider, asked an appeals court
to reverse a regulator’s “dramatic intervention” limiting how
much it can charge rivals for coverage of soccer matches.  The watchdog, known as Ofcom, should be barred from setting
prices for FA Premier League matches below the market rate,
BSkyB’s lawyer told a panel of three judges today at the
 Competition Appeal Tribunal  in  London . The regulator has argued
BSkyB hurts consumers by charging competitors too much.  “Sky’s valuable assets, developed through an enormous
amount of investment, innovation and risk-taking,” are being
forcibly made available to companies “who wish to retail them,
as if they’re a public good,” James Flynn, BSkyB’s lawyer with
Brick Court Chambers in London, said at the hearing.  BSkyB, the target of a takeover by  Rupert Murdoch ’s News
Corp., agreed to pay 1.62 billion pounds ($2.64 billion) in 2009
to show most live Premier League soccer matches between 2010 and
2013. BSkyB, based in Isleworth,  England , has bet its business
model on showing exclusive sporting events and films.  After a three-year investigation, Ofcom in March 2010 said
BSkyB was using its “market power” to limit distribution to
rivals. BSkyB appealed over claims Ofcom went too far, while its
competitors --  BT Group Plc (BT/A) , the biggest U.K. phone company, and
cable-TV provider  Virgin Media Inc. (VMED)  -- say the regulator didn’t
go far enough.  BSkyB in April 2010 reached a temporary deal with Virgin
and BT, under which they agreed to put the difference between
Ofcom’s mandated price and BSkyB’s higher price into an escrow
account pending the result of the appeal.  The disputed decision is the watchdog’s “first foray into
this type of price regulation,” Flynn said at the hearing. It
gives an unfair advantage to companies “with size and
strength” and to inefficient entrants to the market, he said.  Ofcom spokeswoman Elizabeth DeWinton didn’t immediately
return an e-mail seeking comment.  BSkyB shares were unchanged at 839 pence in London today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
 Jonathan Browning  in London 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 