-- 
Buffett-Backed Chinese Carmaker BYD Wins Approval for Shenzen Share Sale

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-10T07:22:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/byd-wins-china-regulator-approval-for-shenzhen-listing.html
BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed
by  Warren Buffett , won regulatory approval for a share sale in
China as it seeks funds to reverse falling deliveries in the
world’s biggest vehicle market.  The China Securities Regulatory Commission approved BYD’s
planned A share issue, the company said in a  Hong Kong  stock
exchange filing yesterday. BYD, already listed in Hong Kong,
plans to offer as many as 79 million shares on the Shenzhen
stock exchange, it said on May 5.  Shenzhen-based BYD is raising the funds to expand after its
sales fell for nine straight months through April, and amid
rising competition as carmakers such as  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
Nissan Motor Co. introduce cheaper models. Industrywide
deliveries have also slowed after  China  ended tax incentives and
subsidies that helped the country overtake the U.S. as the
world’s largest auto market.  “BYD has urgent demand for capital to fuel its
expansion,” said Zhang Xin, a Beijing-based analyst with Guotai
Junan Securities Co. “The  auto industry  is a capital intensive
one, and automakers need to keep investing to maintain their
position amid competition.”  BYD’s stock has declined 60 percent in the past year,
closing at HK$28.20 yesterday. That compares with a 14 percent
gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The Hong Kong exchange is
closed for a public holiday today.  Regulator Approval  The automaker headed by Chairman Wang Chuanfu will use 1.14
billion yuan of the proceeds from the share sale for automobile
research, development and production facilities in Shenzhen, it
said on May 5.  The company will spend 652 million yuan ($100 million) to
expand its auto product and accessories unit and 400 million
yuan on a lithium-ion battery production project, BYD said.  MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co., a unit of Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , bought 9.9 percent of BYD in September
2008. The carmaker raised HK$1.4 billion ($180 million) in an
initial public offering in Hong Kong in July 2002 by selling
shares at HK$10.95 each.  BYD car sales fell 11 percent to 40,100 in April, the
company said. The automaker missed its 600,000 unit sales target
by 13 percent last year, and cut prices on its models in
February to boost deliveries. It had earlier revised the sales
target down from 800,000 vehicles.  China’s passenger-car sales to dealers in April rose 2.8
percent from a year earlier to 1.14 million units, the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers said today.  “With sales plunging, IPO pricing will be a key to make
BYD attractive to investors,”  Guotai Junan ’s Zhang said.  Overall sales growth in China this year may fail to reach a
previous estimate by China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers for a 10 percent to 15 percent increase, Vice
Chairman Dong Yang said at a briefing last month.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  