-- 
Canadian Natural Gas Falls Amid Ample Supplies, Higher Drilling

-- B y   G e n e   L a v e r t y
-- 
2011-05-09T20:08:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/canadian-natural-gas-falls-amid-ample-supplies-higher-drilling.html
Canadian natural gas for June delivery
fell as U.S. explorers boosted the number of rigs drilling for
gas amid increasing reserves of the fuel.  The number of rigs drilling for gas in the U.S. rose by
eight to 890 last week, according to data from Baker Hughes Inc.
U.S. explorers need to keep drilling or risk losing the right to
develop leased lands.  Canada ’s  National Energy Board  last week
doubled its estimate of gas contained in the nation’s largest
shale formation.  “Historically, the most important driver of U.S. onshore
gas production capacity has been the behavior of the U.S. gas
rig count,” Stephen Smith, an energy analyst and president of
Stephen Smith Energy Associates in Natchez, Mississippi, said in
a report today.  Alberta gas for June delivery fell 7.5 cents, or 2.2
percent, to C$3.41 per gigajoule ($3.26 per million British
thermal units) as of 3 p.m. New York time, according to  NGX,  a
Canadian Internet market. Gas traded on the exchange goes to
users in Canada and the U.S. and is priced on TransCanada
Corp.’s  Alberta  system.  Natural gas for June delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  fell 8.1 cents to settle at $4.154 per million Btu.  Last week, the  National Energy Board  doubled its estimate
of gas in the Horn River Shale of northeastern British Columbia
to 78 trillion cubic feet, with 3 trillion already discovered.
Canadian drillers have slowed exploration activity. Explorers in
Canada lease land from the government without the strict
drilling time limits that U.S. landowners demand.  Spot Prices Rise  Canadian gas for prompt delivery rose as warm weather in
the U.S. Midwest is expected to boost air conditioner use in the
next three days.  Chicago ’s high will touch 82 degrees Fahrenheit
(28 Celsius) tomorrow, about 13 degrees warmer than normal,
according to  State College , Pennsylvania-based forecaster
AccuWeather Inc.  Gas at the Alliance Pipeline delivery point near Chicago
rose 2.23 cents to $4.3131 per million British thermal units on
the  Intercontinental Exchange . Alliance is an express line that
can carry 1.5 billion cubic feet a day to the Midwest from
western Canada.  At the Kingsgate point on the border of  Idaho  and British
Columbia, gas rose 7.76 cents to $4.0784, according to ICE. At
Malin,  Oregon , where Canadian gas is traded for California
markets, gas was up 7.64 cents to $4.1957.  Volume on  TransCanada’s  Alberta system, which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16 billion cubic
feet as of 2 p.m. in  New York , 179 million below its target
level. Gas production has declined in western Canada because the
ground is too soft to move heavy equipment to well sites.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.74 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 1.66 billion cubic feet.  Available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia system
at Kingsgate was 1.41 billion cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.49 billion cubic feet today, about 51
percent of its capacity of 2.9 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy’s  British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.83
billion cubic feet at 1:50 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gene Laverty in Calgary at 
 glaverty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 