-- 
McDonald’s April Sales Rise 6% as Drinks Lure U.S. Diners

-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 
2011-05-09T20:08:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/mcdonald-s-u-s-april-same-store-sales-top-estimates-as-drinks-lure-diners.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, said sales at stores open at least 13 months
rose 6 percent in April as smoothies and McCafe beverages drew
customers in the U.S.  Analysts projected comparable-store sales would rise 4.1
percent, according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg News. Sales in the U.S. climbed 4 percent, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer James Skinner said sales increased
6.5 percent in both  Europe  and in  Asia ,  Africa  and the Middle
East. McDonald’s, which debuted frozen-strawberry lemonade in
the U.S. today, plans to introduce a mango pineapple smoothie
this year.  Specialty beverages are “appealing to an even broader
group of customers and bringing in more customers,” Sofia
Therios, a director of marketing at McDonald’s, said in a
telephone interview last week. Beverages make up about one-fifth
of sales at McDonald’s.  McDonald’s, which has about 33,000 locations worldwide, has
increased prices to help make up for rising food costs. The
fast-food chain’s “pricing power” has allowed it to raise menu
prices without hurting customer traffic, Sara Senatore, a New-
York-based analyst at Sanford C. Berstein & Co., said in a
research note today. She rates the shares “outperform.”  March same-stores sales increased 3.6 percent globally.
Comparable-store sales are viewed as a key measure of a
retailer’s growth because they exclude the impact of store
closings and openings.  McDonald’s rose 61 cents to $79.31 at 4 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have gained 3.3
percent this year, compared with a 7 percent increase for the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  