-- 
Centrica Slumps as Higher North Sea Taxes to Hurt Earnings

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-05-09T16:09:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/centrica-slumps-as-higher-north-sea-taxes-to-hurt-earnings.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest
energy supplier, fell the most in a year in  London  after saying
2011 earnings will grow at a “more modest” rate than
previously expected because of higher production taxes.  Centrica slumped 3.8 percent, or 12 pence, to 303.5 pence
in London. The stock has fallen 8.5 percent this year, valuing
the Windsor, England-based company at 15.7 billion pounds ($25.6
billion).  A tax rise announced in the U.K. budget on March 23 will
offset any gains from higher wholesale prices, Centrica said
today in a statement. The company’s U.K. oil and gas producing
fields are now subject to some of the highest levels of tax in
the world, with tariffs on some fields rising to 81 percent,
according to Centrica.  “This statement should once and for all kill off the over-
ambitious expectations that some commentators have had for
Centrica profit growth,” said  Peter Atherton , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London.  Companies including Centrica, BP Plc and ConocoPhillips
have seen the value of fields on the U.K. continental shelf drop
following the tax increase.  The sale of fields has already been
hampered by the cost of dismantling decades-old platforms,
according to analysts and executives.  “The effectiveness of our economic hedge has been
partially reduced by the U.K. Government’s increase in tax rates
for oil and gas production,” Centrica said. “We no longer
expect to maintain the previously projected high levels of
investment in the U.K.”  ‘More Challenging’  The residential market is “significantly more
challenging” than last year, Centrica added. Wholesale gas and
power prices are 25 percent higher than a year earlier and
average residential gas consumption is down 19 percent in the
first four months of 2011, Centrica said.  Full-year oil and gas production will exceed 50 million
barrels of oil equivalent in 2011, the utility said.  Warmer temperatures and energy efficiency measures trimmed
electricity consumption in the first four months of the year by
4 percent, the company said. Centrica plans to move four
stations, or about 20 percent of capacity, into “short-term
preservation mode,” meaning the stations can be put into use
within two to three days if market conditions improve. The
company’s combined-cycle gas turbine power plants generated 40
percent less power in the first quarter, compared with 2010.  The utility has 16 million residential energy customer
accounts, a similar level to last year. Residential customers in
the U.S. Northeast now exceed 800,000 and business energy
supplies were 17 percent higher in the first quarter compared
with a year earlier.  Centrica will release first-half results on July 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 