-- 
Chile Swaps Fall on Speculation Central Bank to Slow Rate Rises

-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 
2011-05-09T22:46:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/chilean-peso-is-little-changed-as-copper-offsets-greek-downgrade.html
Chilean swap rates declined to the
lowest in a month as the falling dollar cut the cost of Chilean
imports and relieved inflation concerns, boosting expectations
the central bank will slow the pace of rate hikes.  One-year interest-rate swaps fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 5.52 percent as of 2:40 p.m. New York
time. Two-year swaps fell five basis points to 5.63 percent. The
peso gained 0.1 percent to 467.4 per  U.S. dollar  from 467.97 on
May 6.  Chile’s central bank has raised its benchmark overnight
rate by 4 percentage points over the past 12 months, more than
any other major central bank tracked by Bloomberg, as the
economy recovered from a devastating earthquake, expanding 15
percent. Since the bank’s April meeting, traders have pared bets
on a third straight half-point rise as import costs fell and
inflation remained in line with the bank’s target, boosting
confidence in its ability to control price rises.  “They have the option to decelerate at the meeting this
week,” said  Siobhan Morden , a strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “They’ve had the
benefit of renewed credibility after back-to-back 50 basis-point
rate hikes, and there are more favorable global trends with
lower commodity prices and foreign exchange gains. The curve has
interpreted that as a deceleration of rate hikes.”  Morden had recommended investors position themselves to
profit from a falling six-month swap rate. She now recommends
they close that trade.  Rate Forecast  The median forecast of 13 economists in a Bloomberg survey
is that the bank will increase its  base rate  by a quarter point
to 4.75 percent on May 12. Three of the 13 expect the bank to
raise to 5 percent, which would be the third straight 50 basis-
point increase.  Chilean inflation forecasts soared in the first quarter
after the central bank announced a $12 billion program of dollar
purchases to stem the peso’s gains, even as global food prices
rose.  Two-year breakeven inflation, a measure of traders’
expectations of average future price rises, reached a 29-month
high of 4.46 percent on March 7, before the first of the two
half-point hikes. The central bank aims for inflation of three
percent over a two-year horizon, with a margin of error of 1
percentage point either side.  Two-year breakeven inflation fell four basis points today
to 3.62 percent. The lowest since the bank unveiled its dollar
buying plans on Jan. 3.  Swaps Decline  “Medium- and long-term breakevens are back below the top
of the bank’s target range,” said Jorge Selaive, chief
economist at Banco de Credito & Inversiones in Santiago.
“That’s exacerbated by the decline in oil prices, but it had
been maturing for a while. It predates the fall in commodities
so I’d attribute it to the market reading that the central bank
is committed to withdrawing monetary stimulus.”  The one-year swap rate started declining after reaching a
high of 5.73 percent on April 13, the day after the bank’s last
meeting. The falling swap rate suggests traders decided that the
bank would need to raise rates less in the next 12 months than
they previously had thought.  The cost of a barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil
for June delivery has fallen 10.2 percent in Chilean peso terms
from a high reached on April 8, as the peso gained to a three-
year high on April 29 and the oil price fell.  Chile  imported $486 million of oil in April, 8.7 percent of
its total imports, the central bank said today.  The peso fell the most since January last week, dropping
from a three-year high reached on April 29.  Foreign investors in the Chilean forwards market increased
bets against the peso by $399 million to $2.4 billion on May 5,
the highest since April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  