-- 
Wang Calls for Shift in China Growth Model as Trade Surplus Jumps

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-05-10T17:12:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/china-s-leaders-must-agree-before-any-change-in-growth-model-wang-says.html
China ’s vice premier, leading annual
economic talks with the U.S., signaled internal divisions over
his government’s pledge to reduce reliance on overseas demand as
the nation posted a wider  trade surplus  led by record exports.  “The biggest challenge for us in this respect is to make
sure that everyone is on the same page,” Wang Qishan said in an
interview on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast on PBS and
Bloomberg Television. “We need to come to the same conclusion
that we must transform our economic development pattern.”  The remarks, in response to questions on when China might
let the yuan rise and take steps to bolster domestic demand, may
help explain why officials have limited its gains against the
dollar to about 5 percent over the past year, less than half the
Singapore currency’s advance. The April trade surplus risks
adding to inflation pressures that Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said could be addressed through yuan appreciation.  “China appears to be absolutely no closer to the hallowed
goal of rebalancing” its economy, said Alistair Thornton, an
economist at IHS Global Insight in Beijing. The trade numbers
“will likely provide a touch more ammunition for the U.S. in
the talks, as Geithner argues that more needs to be done with
the currency and interest rates,” he said.  Focal Point  The currency is a focal point of talks among Wang, Geithner
and other officials from both nations meeting in Washington for
the annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue. Geithner, also
speaking on the Charlie Rose show yesterday, said China was
“moving carefully” in appreciating the yuan and would come to
the “right judgment” about continuing to raise its value as a
way to fight inflation.  China is continuing its move toward a more flexible
exchange rate for the yuan, a U.S. Treasury Department official
said today after talks with a top-ranking Chinese delegation in
 Washington . The official, speaking on the condition of
anonymity, said in a conference call with reporters that China
had also agreed to revise its procurement policy.  The yuan has risen about 10 percent in real terms because
inflation in China is higher than in the U.S. It was 0.02
percent higher 6.4929 per dollar as of 4:06 p.m. Shanghai time.
The Shanghai Composite Index of stocks closed 0.6 percent
higher.  China reported a more-than-estimated $11.4 billion trade
surplus for April, a report from the customs bureau showed
today, compared with a surplus of $140 million the previous
month and $1.68 billion a year earlier. Import growth slowed to
21.8 percent in April from a year earlier while exports grew
29.9 percent.  Rise Faster  U.S. officials want the yuan to rise faster, saying the
currency is a big contributor to a record trade deficit with
China. The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers say China’s
currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an unfair
competitive advantage, costing American jobs.  Wang said his biggest worry about China’s relationship with
the U.S. is that economic relations “become politicized” by
issues such as the value of the yuan, and said Americans must
recognize that much of China’s trade surplus with the U.S. comes
from U.S., Japanese and European companies assembling products
in China.  “Forget about the  exchange rate ,” said Wang, who is one
of four vice premiers in China’s government and has
responsibility for economics, finance and trade. “A large part
of our surplus with the U.S. comes from processing trade, and
the core components of those exports come from developed
countries.”  Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from  Ohio , urged the
administration to press China on the currency and also said
Congress should pass legislation to protect American workers
from an undervalued yuan. Brown and Senator  Olympia Snowe , a
Republican from  Maine , have proposed a measure to allow
additional sanctions to address currency issues.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Belinda Cao in Washington at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  