-- 
China Coal Prices Rise for Sixth Week; Inventories Rebound

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-09T05:22:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/china-coal-prices-rise-for-sixth-week-inventories-rebound-1-.html
Power-station coal prices at
Qinhuangdao port, a benchmark in  China , rose for a sixth week to
the highest in more than two years as demand soared.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram gained 0.6 percent to 810 yuan ($125) to 825 yuan a
metric ton as of today compared with a week earlier, according
to the China Coal Transport and Distribution Association. That’s
the highest since October 2008.  Industrial growth and low hydropower output have increased
use of coal, benefitting China Shenhua Energy Co., the country’s
biggest producer. Inventories of the fuel at Qinhuangdao plunged
to the lowest in almost a year last week, data from the
association showed.  To meet rising demand for coal, Daqin railway, which
transports the fuel from Datong to Qinhuangdao, resumed normal
operations this month after a month-long maintenance in April.
Stockpiles at Qinhuangdao, which ships half of China’s seaborne
coal, rose for the first time in nine weeks as of today.  Inventories gained 19 percent from a week earlier to 5.84
million tons, the China Coal Transport and Distribution
Association said.  Stockpiles also increased on higher imports that have
become cheaper. The premium of coal delivered to southern China
from  Australia  to the price of shipments from Qinhuangdao
narrowed to the lowest since December last week, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on data from CLSA Asia Pacific
markets.  Looming Power Shortage  China Shenhua has risen 5.9 percent in Hong Kong trading
this year. The stock advanced 1.7 percent to HK$35.15 as of the
midday break. China Coal Energy Co., the country’s second-
largest producer, gained 0.4 percent to HK$10.48.  The  Yangtze River , the site of the world’s largest
hydropower dam, received 40 percent less water at its upper
reaches this month compared with levels in the past three years,
dam operator China Three Gorges Corp. said on May 7.  State Grid Corp. of China, the country’s biggest grid
operator, plans to limit power supply to businesses operating in
the eastern province of Jiangsu because of a looming shortage,
China Business News reported on April 27.  China has experienced power deficits in the past, typically
in July and August when rising temperatures increase the use of
air-conditioners. The country’s central and eastern regions have
been facing tight electricity supply this year and some areas
may have a “relatively large” shortfall this summer, the
National Development and Reform Commission, the top economic
planner, said on April 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net . 