-- 
China Swaps Drop as Reserve-Ratio Increase Seen as Less Likely

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-09T03:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/china-swaps-drop-as-reserve-ratio-increase-seen-as-less-likely.html
China ’s interest-rate swaps dropped
for a second day on speculation the central bank will rely more
on open-market operations than reserve-ratio increases to
withdraw liquidity from the financial system.  The People’s Bank of China asked lenders to show their
interest in the first sale of three-year notes since November,
according to two traders at primary dealers required to bid at
the auctions. The banks are required to submit their orders for
the notes this week, according to the traders who asked not to
be identified as the details are not public. China has raised
lenders’ reserve-requirement ratios four times this year to
contain inflation.  “If the central bank resumes sales of three-year bills,
that will ease speculation about an imminent reserve-requirement
ratio increase,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial
Bank Co. in  Shanghai . “The swap rates may extend their
decline.”  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, declined one
basis point to 3.44 percent as of 11:34 a.m. in Shanghai,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A government report on May 11 may show consumer prices
climbed 5.2 percent in April from a year earlier, compared with
5.4 percent the previous month, according to the median estimate
of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  The seven-day repurchase rate, which measures interbank
funding availability, dropped one basis point to 2.76 percent,
according to a weighted average rate compiled by the National
Interbank Funding Center.  The yield on the 3.83 percent government bond due March
2021 dropped one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.82
percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Andrew Janes, Simon Harvey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3043 or
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 