-- 
Christie Says He May Support Indiana Republican Daniels for U.S. President

-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-05-09T15:40:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/christie-says-he-may-support-indiana-republican-daniels-for-u-s-president.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who’s met with potential Republican presidential candidates
seeking his backing, said he would give “real consideration” to
supporting Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels.  Daniels, a former budget director under President  George W.
Bush , told Bloomberg’s  Al Hunt  on May 6 that he would announce
whether he is running within weeks.  “He’s certainly somebody who I have enormous respect for
and would give real consideration to supporting,” Christie said
today on CBS Corp.’s  1210 WPHT , a Philadelphia news-talk
station.  Christie said he wants his party’s 2012 nominee to have
gubernatorial experience.  “Governors have tended to be some of our best
presidents,” Christie said. “When you have executive
responsibilities and you’re the one who has to make decisions,
it trains you.”  Christie, 48, has become a rising national star in the
 Republican Party  after he cut $10 billion in spending on
schools, pensions and local aid in his first budget. He has said
repeatedly that has no plans to run, even as the New York Post
 reported  that his supporters in Iowa plan to meet with him this
month to persuade him to seek the nomination.  ‘Pathway to Victory’  Christie has met with potential Republican challengers to
President Barack Obama including former governors Mitt Romney of
Massachusetts and Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota. He also said he
plans to meet with former Utah governor and ambassador to China
 Jon Huntsman .  Christie said he would back a nongovernor only if he or she
proves to be the strongest candidate to face Obama. American
politicians can no longer be drafted reluctantly to seek the
presidency, the governor said.  “The American people want to see you out there seeking it
and making your case,” he said during the live interview with
host Chris Stigall.  Christie also appeared today on radio station WOR in  New
York , touching on presidential politics and his refusal to repay
$271 million in federal funds in connection with his decision to
cancel a commuter-rail tunnel to New York.  On May 6, he told the audience of New York’s WFAN that the
cast of MTV’s “Jersey Shore” television reality show should get
out of New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaumt . 