-- 
Chubu Electric Falls to 11-Year Low After Plant Closure Request

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-05-09T06:57:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/chubu-electric-falls-to-11-year-low-after-plant-closure-request.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. fell to an
11-year low after Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked the
utility to shut its Hamaoka nuclear plant until it can be
fortified to withstand large earthquakes and tsunamis.  The shares declined 10 percent to 1,584 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange, the lowest since April 2000. The benchmark
Nikkei 225 Stock Average was down 0.7 percent.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami that crippled another
plant and caused the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years have
raised concern that atomic stations in  Japan  aren’t adequately
protected from natural disasters. Kan asked Chubu Electric to
close Hamaoka because a government study indicates an 87 percent
chance a big quake will hit the area within 30 years.  “Chubu will eventually accept the prime minister’s
request,” said Osamu Fujisawa, an independent energy economist
based in  Tokyo . “I don’t think they can go against public
opinion now.”  The board of Japan’s third-biggest utility was due to meet
today at 3:30 p.m. local time to discuss the request from Kan,
Akio Miyazaki, a Tokyo-based company spokesman, said. The board
met on May 7 without reaching a decision.  Hamaoka, located about 190 kilometers (118 miles) southwest
of Tokyo, should be shut down until safety measures, including
building a sea wall, are implemented, Kan said on May 6.  Gas Supplies  Chubu Electric’s only nuclear station has five reactors,
two of which are being decommissioned. The three remaining units
have a combined output of 3,617 megawatts, or 11 percent of
Chubu Electric’s generation capacity and started operations
between 1987 and 2005.  With the future of the plant unclear, Chubu Electric
Chairman Toshio Mita flew to  Qatar  on May 7 for talks to secure
additional supplies of liquefied natural gas for thermal power,
Miyazaki said.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, is considering selling Japan more of the fuel, Energy
Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada said yesterday.  “The fact that it held an extraordinary board meeting and
the chairman is visiting Qatar prove that the company is
preparing for the Hamaoka closure,” said Fujisawa. “Before a
decision can be made, Chubu Electric has to make sure it can
secure fuel supplies and it can buy power from other utilities
if needed.”  Government Aid   Chubu Electric, which planned to buy 8.42 million metric
tons of LNG in the year ending March 2012, may need to secure a
further 4 million tons for thermal power generation if Hamaoka’s
No. 4 and No. 5 reactors are shut down and the No. 3 unit
remains off-line, Miyazaki said.  The extra LNG purchases would cost about 212.3 billion yen
($2.6 billion), according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
latest average LNG import price compiled by the  finance
ministry .  Chubu Electric said on April 28 it expects full-year profit
of 55 billion yen, based on the assumption that the No. 3
reactor will resume operation in about two months.  The government will consider any request from Chubu for
support should it close the plant,  Yukio Edano , Chief Cabinet
Secretary said today. The company hasn’t asked for assistance,
he said.  The Hamaoka plant is located in Shizuoka, a prefecture with
a population of 3.75 million, according to the local
government’s website. The station lies adjacent to a fault line
where the government expects a magnitude-8 earthquake to strike.  Court Ruling  Chubu Electric in 2007 won a court ruling allowing it to
continue operating Hamaoka after local residents filed a lawsuit
to close the plant. The Shizuoka District Court rejected claims
the company underestimated the size of quakes that could hit the
plant and the potential for serious damage to its reactors.  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant 220
kilometers north of Tokyo has been spewing radiation since the
quake and tsunami knocked out power and cooling systems.  Tepco, as the company is called, has been using fire hoses,
pumps and water cannons to douse reactors and spent-fuel pools
in four of the plant’s six units. High radiation levels, debris
and aftershocks prevented workers from entering reactor
buildings till last week.  Radiation Assessment  Workers entered the No. 1 reactor building for the second
time today and checked radiation levels to assess whether they
are low enough to allow engineers in to work on repairing the
cooling systems.  Radiation levels of as high as 700 millisieverts per hour
were detected in the No. 1 building, Junichi Matsumoto, a Tokyo
Electric Power Co. official, said at a news conference today.
The maximum exposure of those who entered the building was 10.56
millisieverts, he said.  The maximum exposure level allowed by the government for
nuclear workers at the plant is 250 millisieverts a year.  A tropical storm that’s crossing the northern  Philippines 
may head for Japan later this week, according to the U.S. Navy
 Joint Typhoon Warning Center .  Tropical Storm Aere is forecast to approach southern Japan
by May 11 and pass Tokyo by May 13. Fukushima Dai-Ichi lies
within the potential track the cyclone may take, according to
the center’s forecast  graphic .  “It’s necessary to prepare for rain and heavy winds before
the typhoon season arrives, but we haven’t been able to get
around to preparing,” Hikaru Kuroda, a manager in Tepco’s
nuclear facility department. “If a typhoon were to strike now,
our activities would be affected.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  