-- 
Chubu Electric to Shut Hamaoka Nuclear Plant to Boost Its Tsunami Defenses

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 
2011-05-09T10:54:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/chubu-electric-to-shut-hamaoka-nuclear-plant-to-boost-its-tsunami-defenses.html
Chubu Electric Power Co. agreed to the
government’s call to close down its Hamaoka nuclear plant until
it can be fortified to withstand a tsunami like the one two
months ago that crippled another Japanese atomic station.  The company’s board agreed to the request from Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan , Chubu Electric President Akihisa Mizuno said
at a press briefing at the company’s headquarters in Nagoya
today. Kan asked the utility to shut the plant, which is located
about 190 kilometers (118 miles) southwest of Tokyo, last week.  Chubu’s shares fell to an 11-year low today on the first
day of trading since Kan’s announcement on May 6.  Japan ’s third-
largest utility, which supplies power to factories run by  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and other manufacturers, may report a loss in the 12
months to March, Mizuno said.  “The company is projected to have a net loss of about 100
billion yen ($1.2 billion) this fiscal year,” said Reiji Ogino,
an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley in  Tokyo . “The
timing of Prime Minister Kan’s decision raises questions. It
seems that attention was paid only to the issue of the Hamaoka
power plant and the decision doesn’t seem to have considered the
energy situation of western Japan as a whole.”  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami that damaged Tokyo
Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant, triggering the
worst nuclear crisis in 25 years, raised concern that atomic
stations in Japan aren’t adequately protected from natural
disasters.  Safety Measures  Hamaoka should be shut down until measures, including
building a sea wall, are implemented, Kan said.  The government has no plans to ask other utilities to shut
reactors, Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Yoshito Sengoku said
yesterday.  Chubu Electric shares declined 10 percent to 1,584 yen on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the lowest since April 2000, before
the announcement. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average was
down 0.7 percent.  The company serves central Japan, including Aichi
prefecture where Toyota operates 12 car and component factories.
Suppliers to Toyota, including  Denso Corp. (6902)  and Aisin Seiki Co.
are also based in the prefecture.  LNG Purchases  Chubu Electric’s only nuclear station has five reactors,
two of which are being decommissioned. The three remaining units
have a combined output of 3,617 megawatts, or 11 percent of
Chubu Electric’s generation capacity and started operations
between 1987 and 2005.  “The reactors will be closed down within several days,”
Mizuno said. “It will take two to three years to complete all
the safety measures."  Chubu Electric, which planned to buy 8.42 million metric
tons of LNG in the year ending March 2012, will need to secure a
further 4 million tons for thermal power generation, Mizuno
said.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, is considering selling Japan more of the fuel, Energy
Minister Mohammed Bin Saleh al-Sada said yesterday.  An extra 1.3 million kiloliters of crude will also need to
be purchased, Mizuno said.  The extra fuel purchases would cost about 250 billion yen
if the company meets the capacity shortfall using only LNG-fired
thermal turbines, Mizuno said.  Financial Support  The government will provide support to Chubu Electric if
requested, Trade Minister  Banri Kaieda  said today.  The Hamaoka plant is located in Shizuoka, a prefecture with
a population of 3.75 million, according to the local
government’s website. The station lies adjacent to a fault line
where the government expects a magnitude-8 earthquake to strike.  Chubu Electric in 2007 won a court ruling allowing it to
continue operating Hamaoka after local residents filed a lawsuit
to close the plant.  The Shizuoka District Court rejected claims the company
underestimated the size of quakes that could hit the plant and
the potential for serious damage to its reactors. The plaintiffs
are taking the case to the Tokyo High Court, Spokesman Akio
Miyazaki said.  Tokyo Electric’s Fukushima plant 220 kilometers north of
Tokyo has been spewing radiation since the quake and tsunami
knocked out power and cooling systems.  Dousing Reactors  Tepco, as the company is called, has been using fire hoses,
pumps and water cannons to douse reactors and spent-fuel pools
in four of the plant’s six units. High radiation levels, debris
and aftershocks prevented workers from entering reactor
buildings till last week.  Workers entered the No. 1 reactor building for the second
time today and checked radiation levels to assess whether they
are low enough to allow engineers in to work on repairing the
cooling systems.  Radiation levels of as high as 700 millisieverts per hour
were detected in the No. 1 building, Junichi Matsumoto, a  Tokyo
Electric  Power Co. official, said at a news conference today.
The maximum exposure of those who entered the building was 10.56
millisieverts, he said.  The maximum exposure level allowed by the government for
nuclear workers at the plant is 250 millisieverts a year.  A tropical storm that’s crossing the northern  Philippines 
may head for Japan later this week, according to the U.S. Navy
 Joint Typhoon Warning Center .  Tropical Storm Aere is forecast to approach southern Japan
by May 11 and pass Tokyo by May 13. Fukushima Dai-Ichi lies
within the potential track the cyclone may take, according to
the center’s forecast  graphic .  ‘‘It’s necessary to prepare for rain and heavy winds before
the typhoon season arrives, but we haven’t been able to get
around to preparing,” Hikaru Kuroda, a manager in Tepco’s
nuclear facility department. “If a typhoon were to strike now,
our activities would be affected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  