-- 
Coal, Iron Resisting Rout May Signal Recovery: Chart of the Day

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-05-09T08:48:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/coal-iron-resisting-rout-may-signal-recovery-chart-of-the-day.html
Bulk commodities including  iron ore 
and coal withstood last week’s rout in exchange-traded raw
materials, showing their resilience as the global economic
recovery remains on track, according to Macquarie Group Ltd.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows percentage changes for silver,
oil, copper and nickel futures and for coal and iron ore indexes
from the close on April 28 through May 6. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost 11 percent last week alone,
the most since December 2008, led by a 27 percent plunge in
silver futures, on concern the recovery was losing steam.  “One clear pattern is apparent, which is the generally
steeper fall in prices for exchange-traded commodities than for
non-exchange traded bulk commodities,” analysts including
Duncan Hobbs wrote in a report dated today. “The world economic
recovery remains on track” and increasing physical premiums
show tight supply, they said.  Regarding the debate over whether funds inflate commodity
costs, the two largest increases in average prices from 2001 to
2010 were in non-exchange traded commodities, iron ore and
coking coal, with gains of 562 percent and 402 percent, said the
analysts. The three weakest performers were in exchange-traded
metals palladium, aluminum and zinc, according to the report.  Net-long positions held by managed-money funds fell 2.4
percent to 1.45 million futures and options in the week ended
May 3, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show. They
reached a record 1.56 million contracts in October. U.S.
payrolls exceeded economists’ predictions, according to data on
May 6, boosting confidence that demand will be sustained.  (To save a copy of the chart, click here.)  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 Kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  