-- 
Commodities, U.S. Stocks Advance; Greek Bonds Drop on Downgrade

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-09T20:08:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/commodities-rally-snapping-five-day-slump-stocks-euro-korean-won-rise.html
Commodities rebounded from the biggest
weekly slide since 2008 amid optimism about economic growth and
speculation recent declines were excessive, helping drive a
rally in U.S. stocks. European equities fell and Greek bonds
tumbled as  Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on the nation.  The S&P GSCI Index of 24 raw materials jumped 3.6 percent,
its biggest gain since 2009, at 4 p.m. in New York following
last week’s 11 percent slide. Silver futures climbed 5.2 percent
and oil rebounded 5.5 percent to above $102 a barrel. The  S&P
500  increased 0.5 percent to 1,346.29 as energy and raw-material
producers led gains, while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index lost 0.3
percent. Greece’s 10-year note yield rose 21 basis points to
15.71 percent. The euro strengthened 0.4 percent to $1.4367
versus the dollar after gaining as much as 0.9 percent earlier.  Last week’s rout in commodities prompted Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., which forecast the plunge, to predict a possible
recovery. German exports surged in March to a record monthly
value, boosting confidence in the global economy after U.S.
payrolls increased last week by more than economists forecast.
S&P cut  Greece ’s rating two levels to B from BB- and said
further reductions are possible as the risk of default rises.  “Commodities were due for a relief rally just based on the
amount of selling pressure we saw last week,” said Brian Lazorishak,  money manager  at Chase Investment Counsel Corp.,
which oversees more than $1.5 billion in Charlottesville,
Virginia. “The long-term trend of strength in commodities is
still intact at this point. There’s solid demand on a worldwide
basis which relates to the economy,” he said. “The impact of
Greece’s downgrade is psychological. It just reminds investors
that there are more problems over there.”  Oil, Silver, Wheat  Crude rose to $102.55 a barrel in New York after losing 15
percent last week, its biggest weekly slide since 2008. Silver
rebounded after sinking 27 percent in the same period, its
biggest weekly slump since at least 1975. Wheat jumped today as
adverse weather in  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia  threatened to
reduce global production.  Commodity bulls say the expanding global economy, led by
China, India and  Brazil , is boosting demand at a time when
producers from BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest mining company, to
BP Plc, Europe’s second-biggest oil producer, can’t keep up.  Jeffrey Currie , the London-based head of commodity research
at Goldman, said in a May 6 interview that last week’s slide in
commodity prices created an opportunity for more “upside
potential” especially in the second half of the year. A month
ago, Currie told investors they should be “underweight” in
commodities.  Commodity Shares Lead  The S&P 500 recouped about one-quarter of last week’s 1.7
percent drop, which was led by energy and commodity producers
amid the slide in oil and metal prices.  Freeport-McMoRan Copper
& Gold Inc. (FCX) , the world’s largest publicly traded copper
producer, climbed 3.4 percent. Cabot Oil & Gas Corp. rallied 5.5
percent to lead gains in all 41 energy companies in the S&P 500.  The Stoxx 600 fell for the fourth time in five days as
banks and insurance companies led losses.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
Spain’s biggest lender, slid 2.8 percent and Switzerland’s  UBS
AG (UBSN)  also 1.9 percent.  MAN SE (MAN)  gained 1.5 percent after  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  raised its
holding in the maker of commercial vehicles to 30.47 percent,
surpassing the 30 percent threshold requiring VW under German
law to make a mandatory bid for the company. Volkswagen offered
95 euros a share, lower than the May 6 closing price of 96.52.  The euro weakened versus 10 of 16 major peers, losing 0.5
percent or more versus the Australian dollar, Swiss franc and
Norwegian krone.  Greek-German Spread  The premium investors demand to hold Greek 10-year
securities instead of benchmark German bunds rose 27 basis
points to 1,261 basis points. The cost of insuring Greek debt
for five years rose 30 basis points to a record 1,371 basis
points, according to CMA prices for credit-default swaps. The
Portuguese 10-year yield increased 12 basis points to 9.67
percent, while the equivalent-maturity Spanish yield advanced 8
basis points to 5.32 percent.  European leaders had an unscheduled meeting over the
weekend, with Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker 
saying Greece “does need a further adjustment program.”
Another credit-rating cut would make Greece the lowest-rated
country in Europe as today’s reduction, the fourth by S&P since
April 2010, left it even with Belarus.  Greek Debt  “The downgrade reflects our view of increasing sentiment
among Greece’s key euro-zone official creditors to extend the
debt payment maturities of their 80 billion euros ($115 billion)
of bilateral loans pooled by the European Commission,” S&P said
in an e-mailed statement. Moody’s Investors Service today placed
Greece’s B1 rating on review for downgrade.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet signaled May 5 that
policy makers may raise  interest rates  for a second time this
year while avoiding an increase in June, threatening to boost
borrowing costs as the region’s weakest economies struggle to
cut debt.  U.S. Treasury 10-year note yields traded at almost the
lowest level this year, little changed at 3.14 percent after
decreasing for 10 of the previous 11 sessions. The yield fell to
3.13 percent on May 6, the lowest level since Dec. 8.  The Dollar Index slipped 0.2 percent to 74.673 as the U.S.
currency weakened against 14 of 16 major peers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in  London  at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  