-- 
Commodities Trading Is Banking’s New Battleground: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-05-09T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/commodities-will-be-banking-s-new-battleground-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Forget bonuses. Don’t worry about
bailouts. That’s all history. The battleground that matters most
for the banking and finance industry right now is the profits it
is making from commodities trading.  Over the last few days, prices have been bouncing all over
the place, a reminder for everyone of just how unstable the
market in food and raw materials has become.  Now there is a backlash building. The banks should take
note of that. If they don’t, they could easily be driven out of
this business -- and they will only have themselves to blame.  Investors held a record $412 billion of raw-material assets
at the end of March, almost 50 percent more than a year earlier,
according to estimates by  Barclays Capital . Trading in futures
and options contracts is rising rapidly. For banks and fund
managers, it is a lucrative business. And the more volatile it
is, the more profitable it gets.  Not everyone is happy about that. Last month,  Barclays Plc (BARC) 
was targeted at its annual general meeting for its trading
profits in food commodities. The  World Development Movement , a
London-based group, claims that Barclays may be making as much
as 340 million pounds ($554 million) a year from “food
speculative activities.”  That may be exaggerated, but there will be plenty of
sympathy for that view. French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has
blamed speculators for pushing up food prices. The European
Union’s financial services commissioner,  Michel Barnier , is even
calling for limits on trading in commodities.  Lives at Stake  It would be easy to dismiss those protests as nothing more
than the complaints of a few anti-business fringe groups and
grandstanding politicians. Easy, but wrong. In reality, there is
a serious issue here. Speculation in commodities isn’t like
trading in financial instruments. People don’t eat  Nestle SA (NESN) 
shares. They don’t need Treasury bills to keep their factories
running. The prices of those instruments can jump around like
crazy without it affecting people’s lives.  But when the price of wheat or copper soars, it makes a big
difference. Some people can’t afford to eat anymore because food
is too expensive. Companies that used to be profitable start
losing money and firing workers because the cost of their raw
materials has risen so much. If they think the banks are to
blame for that, they will be angry.  So what should the banks do? There are four things they should
try to do to maintain public legitimacy for this business.  Supply and Demand  First, explain that it isn’t speculation that drives prices
higher in the long run. It is supply and demand. For every buyer
of a futures contract there is a seller. So while prices may be
more volatile, they don’t change the general direction of the
market for long.  Two, shift the blame. It isn’t necessarily traders who are
pushing up commodity prices. It is just as plausible that
monetary policy by central banks is the culprit. Quantitative
easing creates more money, and it has to show up somewhere.
Private bankers shouldn’t take all the criticism when it may
well be the government’s bankers who are guilty.  Three, explain that commodities are now an investment class
of their own -- and a pretty good one as well. Over the next
decade, returns from equities may be restrained by heavy
regulation, a legacy of the financial crisis. Bonds don’t look a
much better bet: Most major countries are struggling with
sovereign debts and inflation, both of which are bad for bonds.  Commodities for All  So it is better for ordinary people if their pension funds
can invest in commodities as well -- and they can only do that
if banks make the instruments available. No one is going to know
that unless you start telling them.  Finally, don’t overtrade. There is no point sticking to the
line that all trading improves the efficiency of the market. We
have seen too many examples over the last few years of complex
derivative contracts making markets less stable. Take a look at
what you are operating in and how -- and pull back from the
places where the market is getting too fevered. It will be
better in the long run.  Commodities trading is a huge industry for the banks. But
they need to get their arguments straight. If raw-material
prices keep rising and the idea takes hold that the banks are to
blame, sooner or later they will find they get regulated out of
the industry. If that happens, it will be their own fault.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  