-- 
CoreLogic, EarthLink Plan Corporate Bond Sales: New Issue Alert

-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 
2011-05-09T09:09:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/corelogic-earthlink-plan-to-sell-dollar-corporate-bonds-new-issue-alert.html
CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX) , the real estate and
financial information company, and Internet service provider
EarthLink Inc. are among borrowers planning at least $8.12
billion of debt.  Sales of corporate bonds were $2.77 billion on May 6,
Bloomberg data show. Issuance this year climbed to $517.4
billion, compared with $409.5 billion in the corresponding
period of 2010, the data show.  Following is a description of pending sales of corporate
and other bonds.  Investment Grade  CORELOGIC INC. plans to issue $350 million of 10-year
notes, it said in a statement distributed by PR Newswire.
Proceeds may be used to repay borrowings under its credit
facility, according to the statement.  NEDERLANDSE WATERSCHAPSBANK NV may sell three-year, U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds in a benchmark offering, according to a
person with knowledge of the transaction. Bank of America Corp.,
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG are managing the sale, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  NTPC LTD.,  Asia ’s largest power producer, hired banks
before a planned sale of $500 million of U.S. dollar-denominated
bonds, according to two people familiar with the matter. The New
Delhi-based company hired Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc., Deutsche
Bank AG and Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to arrange meetings with
debt investors before the planned sale, the people said, asking
not to be identified because the matter is private.  Not Rated  SINO-OCEAN LAND HOLDINGS LTD., a Chinese property
developer, plans to sell perpetual subordinated notes
denominated in U.S. dollars, according to a person with
knowledge of the transaction. BOC International, Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the offering, said
the person, who asked not to be identified because the details
are private.  High Yield  EARTHLINK INC. (ELNK)  may issue $400 million of senior notes due
2019, the company said in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire. Proceeds may be used to redeem up to $255.8 million of
the company’s convertible bonds as well as for working capital
and general corporate purposes, according to the statement.  EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES CORP. may sell $950 million of
eight-year notes to help pay for its leveraged buyout by Clayton
Dubilier & Rice, according to a person with knowledge of the
offering. The notes won’t be callable for three years, said the
person, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  DELPHI AUTOMOTIVE LLP, the former General Motors Co. unit
that exited an almost four-year bankruptcy in 2009, plans to
sell $1.1 billion of senior notes, according to three people
with knowledge of the transaction. Proceeds from the sale of 8-
and 10-year notes may be used to repurchase shares from GM and
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp., said the people, who declined to
be identified because terms aren’t set.  CHINA QINFA GROUP LTD., a Chinese coal company, hired UBS
AG to help it with a planned sale of dollar bonds, according to
a person with knowledge of the transaction. The five-year senior
notes, which may be rated B2 by Moody’s Investors Service, may
be sold after meetings with credit investors in Asia,  Europe  and
the U.S., the person said, asking not to be identified as
details are private.  CHINA RESOURCES LAND LTD. plans to sell 10-year, U.S.
dollar-denominated bonds, according to a person with knowledge
of the transaction, who asked not to be identified as details
are private. The company hired HSBC Holdings Plc, Bank of China
International Holdings Ltd. and DBS Bank Ltd. as joint lead
managers for the planned sale, it said in a statement to the
 Hong Kong  stock exchange.  SYNDICATE BANK hired a group of banks to arrange meetings
with investors in  London ,  Singapore  and Hong Kong before a
possible dollar bond sale, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The 5.5-year notes may pay a spread of 285 basis
points to 295 basis points, said the person, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  UNIT CORP., the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based oil and gas company,
plans to sell $200 million of senior subordinated 10-year notes,
according to a person familiar with the transaction, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  LDK SOLAR CO., a Chinese maker of solar energy products,
hired Morgan Stanley to help it with a proposed sale of dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter, who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set. Proceeds
will be used to pay back outstanding debt with remaining
maturities of up to one year, the company said in an April 29
regulatory filing.  Standard & Poor’s  assigned the debt a B
rating, according to a note from the ratings company.  CHRYSLER GROUP LLC, the U.S. automaker controlled by
Italy’s Fiat SpA, is planning to sell $2.5 billion of eight- and
10-year notes, the company said in a statement distributed by PR
Newswire. The bonds may be issued as soon as the week of May 16,
according to a person with knowledge of the transaction who
declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ALBAUGH INC., a manufacturer of generic crop protection
products, hired JPMorgan Chase & Co., Citigroup Inc. and  Wells
Fargo & Co . to help it sell seven-year senior unsecured notes in
U.S. dollars, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. The debt may be rated B3 by Moody’s Investors Service,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  CHAODA MODERN AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LTD., a Chinese
vegetable grower based in Hong Kong, hired Citigroup Inc.,
Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America Merrill Lynch to help
manage a sale of senior notes, according to a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange. The five-year note sale will be
benchmark in size, and proceeds will be used to finance capital
expenditures, including the expansion of production bases, said
a person familiar with the transaction, who declined to be
identified because terms aren’t set.  TFS CORP., the Nedlands, Australia-based manager of a
sandalwood plantation, plans to sell $175 million of senior
secured seven-year notes, according to a person familiar with
the transaction. Proceeds will be used to acquire and develop
land, expand sales efforts and for general corporate purposes,
said the person, who declined to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  CHINA LIANSU GROUP HOLDINGS LTD., the Chinese maker of
plumbing supplies, plans to sell U.S. dollar-denominated bonds,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc are managing
the sale, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the details are private.  NEWLEAD HOLDINGS LTD. plans to sell $120 million of six-
year, senior secured notes, according to a statement distributed
by PR Newswire. Proceeds may be used to finance vessel purchase
commitments and repay debt, as well as for general corporate
purposes, the company said in the statement.  INTELSAT ( LUXEMBOURG ) SA may sell about $854 million of
pay-in-kind election notes due February 2017, according to a
person with knowledge of the offering. The company won’t receive
any proceeds from the sale, the person said.  SI ORGANIZATION INC., the former Lockheed Martin Corp. unit
once known as Enterprise Integration Group, may sell $175
million of senior subordinated notes, according to S&P. The
proceeds may be used with $340 million of bank debt and $370
million of new common stock to pay for its acquisition by
Veritas Capital, S&P said.  Offerings in Pipeline  PETROLEOS MEXICANOS, the state-owned oil company, may sell
about $2 billion of dollar bonds by the second half of May or
the first week of June depending on market conditions, Chief
Financial Officer Ignacio Quesada said. Pemex, as the Mexico
City-based company is known, would sell the bonds within two or
three weeks after May 16, he said at a press conference. Pemex
may also raise about $1 billion in a sale of Euro bonds, he
said.  SIAM COMMERCIAL BANK PCL (SCB) , Thailand’s fourth-largest by
assets, hired Barclays Plc and Deutsche Bank AG to help it
arrange a series of meetings with credit investors in Asia and
Europe, according to a person familiar with the matter. The
lender will meet with investors in Singapore, Hong Kong and
London and may consider a sale of U.S. dollar bonds thereafter,
subject to market conditions, the person said, asking not to be
identified as details are private. Siam Commercial Bank is rated
A3 by Moody’s Investors Service, the person said.  BHARTI AIRTEL LTD.,  India ’s biggest mobile-phone operator,
plans to raise $750 million selling its first overseas bonds,
according to  Fitch Ratings . Fitch graded the notes BBB-, the
lowest investment grade, according to a statement from the
ratings company.  BLACK SEA TRADE & DEVELOPMENT BANK plans to sell as much as
$500 million of bonds this year, Andrey Kondakov, head of the
lender, told reporters in Moscow. The lender has hired banks for
the sale, Kondakov said, without identifying them.  Russia ,
Turkey and  Greece  are the largest shareholders in the
development bank.  PT UNIFLORA PRIMA, the Indonesian cocoa processor, delayed
a plan to sell dollar bonds, according to a person with
knowledge of the offering. The company is evaluating the
transaction based on investor feedback while it reviews all its
financing options, the person said, asking not to be identified
as details are private. It may re-engage with investors in the
near future, the person said.  (Updated April 19. See { http://www.unifloraprima.com }.)  EAGLE ROCK ENERGY PARTNERS LP, the Houston-based producer
and marketer of natural gas, is planning a debut high-yield bond
offering, said Chief Financial Officer Jeff Wood. Eagle Rock
intends to sell at least $250 million of notes “certainly
before the summer’s out,” Wood said.  CHINA AUTOMATION GROUP LTD. plans to issue U.S.-denominated
senior notes due 2016, the company said in a statement to the
Hong Kong stock exchange. UBS AG is the lead manager of the
issue, for which conditions and terms are yet to be decided, it
said.  HYUNDAI CAPITAL SERVICES INC., a finance unit of  South
Korea ’s biggest automaker, hired Bank of America Corp. to help
it arrange a series of meetings with credit investors in the
U.S., according to a person familiar with the matter.  SUNAC CHINA HOLDINGS LTD., a developer based in Tianjin,
postponed a series of investor credit meetings after it hired
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it with a sale of dollar bonds, according
to a person familiar with the offering. The five-year notes may
be rated B+ by Standard & Poor’s, said the person, who declined
to be identified because terms aren’t set.  ASTON RESOURCES LTD., the Australian mineral exploration
company, is considering selling bonds in the U.S. to help raise
funds to develop its Maules Creek coal project in New South
Wales, Chief Executive Officer Todd Hannigan said at a business
luncheon in Sydney March 3. Aston may raise $300 million to $500
million, he said.  MONGOLIA is planning its first sale of sovereign bonds,
seeking about $500 million, to establish a benchmark that would
help companies from the resource-rich nation located between
China and Russia raise funds from credit markets. The sale will
“probably” take place in 2011, pending parliament’s approval,
Vice Minister of Finance Ganhuyag Chuluun Hutagt said March 3 in
an interview in Ulan Bator.  BAA LTD., the owner of London’s Heathrow airport, said it
plans to sell bonds in dollars for the first time this year as
it seeks to fund the renovation of Europe’s biggest hub. The
company is owned by  Spain ’s Ferrovial SA.  AVG TECHNOLOGIES, the Czech maker of Internet security
software, plans to sell bonds to U.S. investors to raise money
for dividends and acquisitions, said  Siobhan MacDermott , AVG’s
Prague-based investor relations officer, in an interview Feb.
10. The producer of a free antivirus program that competes with
McAfee Inc. and Symantec Corp. is seeking to raise $300 million
of debt, MacDermott said.  TATA STEEL LTD., India’s biggest producer of the alloy,
plans to sell $500 million of debt by the middle of this year,
CNBC-TV18 news channel reported, without saying where it got the
information.  RODOPA EXPORTACAO DE ALIMENTOS & LOGISTICA LTDA, a
Brazilian beef producer, may sell as much as $100 million in
five-year bonds in the second half of this year or early next
year, Chief Executive Officer Sergio Longo said Feb. 4 in an
interview at the company’s headquarters in Sao Paulo.  (Added Feb. 8. See  http://www.tatuibi.com.br/ )  GAIL INDIA LTD., the nation’s largest natural gas
distributor, plans to borrow $500 million in notes. The state-
controlled company may sell dollar bonds for the first time to
raise $350 million or take a dollar-denominated loan of an equal
value after September to fund a 55 billion-rupee ($1.2 billion)
spending plan in the next financial year, Director of Finance
P.K. Jain said in a telephone interview. Separately, the utility
plans to raise $150 million in a dollar loan from Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., he said.  PT SULFINDO ADIUSAHA, an Indonesian company that makes
chlorine and chemicals, hired Barclays Plc and Standard
Chartered Plc to help it sell five-year, fixed-rate dollar
bonds, according to a person familiar with the matter.  AL BARAKA BANK EGYPT ESC, a unit of Bahrain-based  Albaraka
Banking Group (BARKA) , may sell dollar-denominated Islamic bonds in the
second half of 2011, the bank’s chairman said Sept. 29. The bank
hasn’t decided on the size of the bond, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 