-- 
Crown Paints Attracts Suitors Seeking to Challenge Akzo’s Dulux

-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-05-09T11:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/crown-paints-attracts-suitors-seeking-to-challenge-akzo-s-dulux.html
Crown Paints, the 230-year-old British
paint business being sold by buyout firm Endless LLP, has drawn
interest from potential bidders who are prepared to rival  Akzo
Nobel NV (AKZA) ’s Dulux brand.  “There are several interested parties, but there should
be,” Chief Executive Officer Brian Davidson, who was hired more
than a year ago to overhaul the business, said in an interview.
“This is a heritage business, which has been there and done it
and is fundamentally sorted.” Davidson said he would consider
making an offer for the business should the sale process not
generate an attractive enough offer.  The sale of the Darwen, England-based company is at an
early stage, said Davidson, declining to give details. Crown
Paints may fetch 177 million pounds ($290 million), based on
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
of 20 million pounds and an average multiple in European
coatings deals of 8.87 in the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crown Paints in 2010 raised its market share for the first
time in seven years, boosting it to 19 percent, the CEO said.
Improving procurement of marketing and materials helped restore
it to profitability and Ebitda is poised to increase at a
“double-digit” rate this year, said the CEO, without being
specific. Profit doubled last year.  The CEO predicts further consolidation in the decorative
coatings market. Companies are facing spiraling costs for raw-
materials including titanium dioxide and there’s no sign of a
“phenomenal” recovery in the market, he said.  PPG Industries this month agreed to buy Danish coatings
company Dyrup A/S in a transaction valued at about $200 million
to expand its coatings operation in  Europe .  Costs Purge  Davidson said he spent 1 1/2 weeks at the start of his
tenure touring Crown Paints’ sites explaining to groups of
workers the need to pare costs. Part of the current strategy
involves expanding the Crown Paints and associated brands such
as Sadolin and Sandtex in overseas markets, he said.  Endless purchased the unprofitable Crown Paints from Akzo
Nobel in 2008 following European antitrust rulings over Akzo
Noble’s purchase of Imperial Chemical Industries for $15.9
billion.  “Had we not made some of the investments we made and taken
on some of the challenges we did over the past year or two, we
would have been” in trouble, Davidson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  