-- 
Czech Price Growth Slowed in April as Central Bank Times Rate Increase

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-05-10T11:08:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/czech-prices-probably-slowed-in-april-as-central-bank-times-rate-increase.html
Czech inflation was the slowest in 10
months in April, giving policy makers room to keep the benchmark
interest rate at a record low as they deliberate the timing of
an increase in borrowing costs.  The inflation rate fell to 1.6 percent from 1.7 percent in
March, the Prague-based Statistics Office said on its website
today. The median forecast of 15 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for 1.6 percent, while the central bank forecast a
rate of 1.7 percent. Consumer prices rose 0.3 percent on the
month in April.  “Inflation is likely to remain below the 2 percent target
in the months to come,” said Radomir Jac, chief analyst at
Generali PPF Asset Management in  Prague . “While we think the
central bank will consider an interest rate hike before the
final quarter, the data published today are supportive of stable
rates at the next monetary-policy meeting late in June.”  Czech policy makers have kept the benchmark two-week repo
rate at record-low 0.75 percent for a year as inflation holds
below the bank’s 2 percent target. The timing of a likely rate
increase had moved forward to the fourth quarter from the first
quarter in 2012, reflecting expectations of more monetary
tightening in the euro area, the central bank said last week.  No Change  The Ceska Narodni Banka on May 5 decided to keep borrowing
costs half a point below the  European Central Bank ’s main rate,
rejecting a motion for a quarter-point increase with a 5-2 vote.
The ECB last month raised its main rate for the first time in
almost three years, changing one of the variables in the
economic models used by central bankers in Prague.  The deviation in inflation from the central bank’s forecast
was caused by the absence of an increase in natural gas prices
for households that the central bank had expected, the bank said
in a statement. Food prices also rose less than the bank had
forecast.  “Despite the deviation, the published data for April are
in line with the meaning of the new forecast,” the central bank
said in the statement. The new forecast says the local economy
isn’t generating inflation pressures and price growth is driven
mainly by commodity prices, it said.  Koruna Gains  Price growth has slowed from a 21-month high of 2.3 percent
in December as a firming koruna and weak consumer demand tamed
the impact of higher oil and food costs.  The Czech koruna has gained 3.1 percent against the euro
this year, which has helped limit inflation pressures with the
third-best performance among the 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The koruna traded at 24.253 per euro at
1:06 p.m. in Prague, little changed from yesterday’s close.
Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to contain
inflation caused by higher oil and food prices. Several
countries in eastern  Europe , including Hungary, Poland and
 Russia , started raising interest rates to slow inflation.  The April inflation reading supports views against rushing
with a tightening of policy, said Patrik Rozumbersky, an analyst
at UniCredit Bank AS in Prague. The euro-area’s sovereign debt
crisis will probably also remain an argument against raising
interest rates, he said. UniCredit forecasts the first Czech
increase won’t come before the third quarter.  Rate Forecast  “Annual inflation slowed for the second month in a row and
it’s going entirely in the opposite direction than the euro-area
price indexes,” he said. “We expect a reversal as early as in
May and compared with central bank forecasts, we predict prices
will grow faster in the coming months.”  The Czech central bank expects higher rates from the fourth
quarter to help keep inflation at 2.2 percent in the second
quarter of 2012 and at 2.1 percent in the following three
months, according to the forecast released last week.  Czech policy makers have shown differing views on inflation
risks, with some board members advocating higher borrowing
costs.  Eva Zamrazilova  voted for a quarter-point increase at the
March 24 meeting. Kamil Janacek said April 6 he wanted to lift
rates in May. A detailed record of the May 5 vote will be
published on May 13.  The Czech economy isn’t generating inflation pressures as
consumer demand remains subdued, central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said after the rate decision last week as the bank cut
its forecast for growth in gross domestic product to 1.5 percent
for 2011 from 1.6 percent. The 2012 forecast was reduced to 2.8
percent from 3 percent.  Czech retail sales rose 2.1 percent in March, slowing from
6.5 percent growth in February and less than the median forecast
of a 3.5 percent increase in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  