-- 
Doctors Say They Won’t Pay to Replace ‘Bias’ of Industry-Backed Education

-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 
2011-05-09T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/doctors-won-t-pay-to-replace-bias-of-industry-backed-education.html
Doctors who say that industry funding
for continuing medical education creates bias don’t want to pay
more for it themselves, a survey found.  Eighty-eight percent of 770 doctors and nurses who
responded agreed that funding by drug and medical device
companies for professional health-education courses results in
bias, according to the study released today by the  Archives of
Internal Medicine . Only 42 percent said they would pay higher
fees to replace the industry’s funding, researchers at the
University of  California ,  San Francisco , found.  The U.S. needs to develop a system of medical education
“free of industry influence” even if it means higher costs to
doctors, according to an  April 2009 report  from the  Institute of
Medicine , an independent arm of the  National Academy of
Sciences . Such courses are required in most states for doctors
to renew their licenses, and industry provides as much as 60
percent of the funding.  “People still perceived a lot of bias, they are not
willing to pay more, and they definitely don’t understand the
cost” of delivering live continuing medical education courses,
 Jeffrey Tabas , the lead author and a UCSF emergency medicine
professor, said in a telephone interview. The survey
“demonstrates how difficult this issue is.”  Nearly 85 percent of doctors and nurses surveyed
underestimated the cost of catered lunches for courses conducted
at hotels, for example, which cost from $49 to $117 per person,
depending on the city, according to the study. Just 15 percent
of the doctors and nurses supported eliminating industry funding
for the courses, known as CME, the study found.  Industry Money  “If you just eliminated the industry support, CME would
collapse,” said Tabas. “It is better to find ways to regulate
it.”  Tabas said licensing regulators are grappling with lower-
cost ways of documenting medical education, such as giving
doctors credit for quality-improvement efforts they are already
undertaking at their own hospitals.  Continuing education comes in a variety of forms, including
live courses that were the subject of the survey, as well as on-
line classes. The training is conducted by medical schools,
professional societies and companies that specialize in
organizing them.  “The entire CME community is grappling with what is the
right balance between independence and the connectivity required
for innovation,” Todd Dorman, an anesthesiologist at  Johns
Hopkins University School of Medicine  in Baltimore who was the
co-author of an accompanying commentary on the survey, said in
an e-mail. He said that the survey showed that doctors don’t
know about existing firewalls to prevent industry from unduly
influencing course content.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 