-- 
Dynegy Reports Net Loss for the Fourth Consecutive Quarter

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-05-09T12:43:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/dynegy-reports-net-loss-for-the-fourth-consecutive-quarter.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN) , the Houston-based power
producer that warned two months ago that it may seek  bankruptcy
protection , reported its fourth consecutive quarter of losses as
electricity prices fell.  First-quarter net loss was $77 million, or 64 cents a
share, compared with net income of $145 million, or $1.20, a
year ago, Dynegy said in a statement today. The company was
expected to lose 70 cents a share, according to one analyst’s
estimate. Sales fell 41 percent to $505 million.  Dynegy said in a March 8 filing that low power prices and
more stringent collateral requirements may put it in default of
its credit terms in the third or fourth quarter of this year,
causing it to seek  Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection . The company
hired  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  last month to help restructure debt and sell
assets after shareholders rejected two takeover bids in the past
year.  “The end goal is the creation of a sustainable power
generation business that will be in a position to benefit from
future improvements in the power markets,” E. Hunter Harrison,
Dynegy’s interim chief executive officer, said in today’s
statement.  Shareholders spurned a $5-a-share bid by  Blackstone Group
LP (BX) , the world’s largest private-equity firm, in November and a
$5.50-a-share offer by  Carl Icahn , its largest shareholder, in
February. Bruce Williamson resigned as Dynegy’s CEO in March.  Available Cash  Cash flow  from Dynegy’s power plants fell 69 percent in the
first quarter to $167 million as the company posted more
collateral to back contracts, according to the statement.  Available cash and credit fell to $1.2 billion as of May 2
from $1.4 billion on March 31, according to today’s release.
Liquidity was $1.8 billion at the end of 2010, the company said
on March 8.  The earnings were released before regular trading began on
U.S. markets. Dynegy rose 19 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $6.41 in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading on May 6. The shares,
which have gained 14 percent this year, have one buy rating,
eight holds and two sells from analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 