-- 
Hedge-Fund Backed El Tejar Tests IPO Appetite With $300 Million Bond Sale

-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 
2011-05-09T18:57:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hedge-fund-backed-el-tejar-tests-ipo-appetite-with-300-million-bond-sale.html
El Tejar SA, the world’s largest grain
producer, plans to sell as much as $300 million of bonds in the
U.S. this year before a planned initial public offering.  The Buenos Aires-based company may accelerate plans for the
IPO to next year depending on investor reaction to the sale of
between $200 million and $300 million of bonds maturing in seven
to 10 years, Chief Financial Officer Mario Lorencatto said. El
Tejar said previously the IPO would take place in 2013.  “We have noticed a big appetite from investors,” he said
May 6 in an interview in  Sao Paulo . “The bond sale will be an
important test for us to possibly do our IPO earlier.”  El Tejar, a closely held producer of soybeans, corn and
cotton, plants 1 million hectares (2.5 million acres) of land in
Latin America. London-based hedge fund Altima Partners LLP holds
40 percent, while private equity firm  The Capital Group
Companies , based in  Los Angeles , holds about 13 percent.  The company is seeking to buy land in the U.S. to plant
cotton and soybeans, according to Lorencatto.  “There are some places that interest us, like Mississippi
and  Arkansas ,” he said. “We see a huge opportunity in cotton
arising as demand from  China  is going to keep strong.”  El Tejar may use proceeds of a possible IPO to expand
beyond grains into financing farmers or even to set up a trading
company, according to the executive.  ‘Real Money’  “The real money is in financing farmers,” he said. “If
we can set up a model to manage risk, we are confident of making
good value of shareholders”.  The IPO is one alternative for raising cash, Lorencatto
said, after visiting Wall Street firms a few weeks ago to
discuss the company’s options.  “There is a lot of activity going on, from private equity
to sovereign funds,” he said.  Lorecantto declined to comment on whether the IPO would
take place in  Brazil , Argentina or the U.S.  Companies have raised a total of 4.45 billion reais ($2.75
billion) through initial public offerings in Brazil this year,
down from 6.83 billion reais in the same period last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Five of the seven sales
this year were priced at the bottom or below their initially
projected ranges.  Argentine Bond Sales  Argentine companies ranging from oil producer Capex SA to
retail bank Banco de Galicia y Buenos Aires SA announced bond
sales this year. Argentine companies and provinces sold the most
international debt for a decade in the first quarter, according
to Bloomberg data. Companies also issued the most in three years
in 2010, spurred by the government’s restructuring in June of
$12.2 billion of debt held over from a record default in 2001.  The Brazilian government’s rule restricting foreigner’s
purchases or leasing of farms are unclear and have been limiting
transactions, Lorencatto, 51, said.  “For now we are waiting until the legal framework is
clearer before seeking new deals in Brazil,” he said.  Brazil’s attorney general office ruled last August that
foreigners or companies controlled by non-Brazilian shareholders
are not allowed to own or lease more than 5,000 hectares in
total. The rule doesn’t apply to contracts in place.  Latin America ’s largest economy has missed out on $15
billion of investments since the new restrictions in August,
agricultural research firm Agroconsult said April 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 