-- 
Hedge-Fund Manager From Harvard Hits Bottom, Closes Shop: Books

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-05-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hedge-fund-manager-from-harvard-hits-bottom-trains-for-triathlon-books.html
Even the calmest hedge- fund manager 
can have “a terrible, horrible, no good, very bad day,” to
quote a beloved children’s book.  Ask Lars Kroijer, a Harvard-educated Dane who logged onto
Bloomberg one hot August morning in 2007 only to see his
investment in a European shipbuilder sink like a one-ton anchor.
His fund, Holte Capital Ltd. in  London , lost about $10 million
that day -- enough to rattle investors even though it was a blip
compared with blowouts such as Amaranth Advisors LLC.  “It felt like the world was ending,” says Kroijer, 39,
recalling how Aker Yards ASA plummeted after the company cut its
profit forecast that day. “You feel as if the world has just
told you, ‘You don’t know what the hell you’re doing.’”  That marked the beginning of the end for Holte, as he
explains in “Money Mavericks,” a memoir tracing the groveling
rise and sudden demise of one of the 5,000 or so funds that
closed between 2000 and 2009.  After the Aker Yards debacle, Holte had a bad run. By
October, its year-to-date return had shrunk to 12 percent. One
big investor pulled out, and Kroijer, contending with a stampede
of others who wanted out, decided to return all their capital,
he says. By Feb. 1, 2008, he writes, “We were done.” He went
for a walk in the rain.  I caught up with Kroijer over a plate of chicken curry at
the Havelock Tavern, a gastropub with battered wood floors and
mismatched chairs on a West Kensington street in London where
cherry blossoms swirled off the trees. We continued our talk on
the phone, discussing why he now invests in  index funds  and is
in training for  a triathlon in Copenhagen  this August.  ‘Alternative Universe’  “I just ran, believe it or not, back from Tower Bridge,”
he said from his home in Richmond the day before the royal
wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton . “I ran past
 Buckingham Palace , and it’s like an alternative universe.”  With his tousled brown hair, open-collared shirts and
American-inflected English, Kroijer doesn’t fit the usual
hedgehog stereotypes. He’s not the kind of guy who smashes
computer screens and buys $8,000 bottles of  Romanee-Conti . He
sounds more like a tired family man who needs a dose of
Echinacea. He swims in a local public pool, where Band-Aids
litter the bottom, and he’s coughing from some bug.  “It’s all this training,” he says, shrugging it off. “It
says in my program that it makes you catch small colds all the
time.”  Blur of Calls  The morning Aker Yards dropped, Kroijer hurried to gather
information about what went wrong. The Oslo-based company had
mentioned unforeseen cost overruns, he recalls, and the day
became a blur of phone calls and a lunch with Aker managers.
Then things got worse.  “In the middle of this, I get a call from the nursery,
saying ‘You’ve got to take your daughter to the eye hospital.
She has a piece of metal stuck in her eye.’”  One of his twins, Anna, almost three, had something
scratching her eyeball. At the hospital, Kroijer and his wife
took her straight into an operating room, where a Norwegian
number rang his cell phone.  “It’s obviously Aker Yards and it’s obviously important,
so I take the call,” he says. “That was probably the moment I
came closest to getting divorced. I got this look from my wife -
- this look of ‘You are the scum of the earth.’”  He kept the call brief, and the doctor -- after giving
Kroijer his own dirty look -- plucked out the metal and put Anna
on antibiotics.  “She healed in about three weeks,” says Kroijer, putting
the drama in perspective.  Worst Day  Though it was the worst day Holte had ever had, the loss
amounted to 3 percent of the fund -- in line with what he told
investors might occur, he says.  “When I take a step back now, I can see that I’m probably
slightly guilty of overdramatizing in the book,” says Kroijer.
“But living it didn’t feel that way at all.  “Sometimes, I talk to friends who say, ‘Dude, I lost 52
percent one year, and you write a chapter about losing 3?’”  Kroijer says he hasn’t had a single day when he missed
running Holte, no matter how much he enjoyed the analysis and
camaraderie. He no longer manages money, even his own.  “I take the view that either you do it full on or you
shouldn’t do it,” he says. “So for now I’m putting my money in
index funds and the hedge funds of a couple of friends.”  He serves on boards of companies including  Kit Digital
Inc. (KITD) , which specializes in video software and services. He also
gives talks about his experiences at Holte.  “Many people have a hedge-fund manager in their tummy,”
he says. “They want to hear what it’s like to try to raise the
money and what’s it like to be rejected for the 300th time.”  So how does that feel?  “It’s pretty humbling,” he says. “Not even my years of
chasing girls in high school have anything on that.”  “Money Mavericks: Confessions of a Hedge Fund Manager” is
from  Financial Times Prentice Hall  (210 pages, 20 pounds).  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 