-- 
Medicare Breaks Own Rules to Pay for Multiple Colonoscopies, Study Finds

-- B y   P a t   W e c h s l e r
-- 
2011-05-09T20:58:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/medicare-breaks-own-rules-to-pay-for-multiple-colonoscopies-study-finds.html
Medicare broke its own rules by paying
for colonoscopy follow-up tests earlier than recommended,
potentially boosting the U.S. health plan’s costs for the common
procedure, a study found.  Almost half of 24,000 Medicare patients whose initial
colonoscopies came back negative underwent a second cancer
screening in under seven years, according to a report in the
Archives of  Internal Medicine . That’s three years less than is
approved by the federal plan’s guidelines, said  James Goodwin , a
 University of Texas  doctor and study author. No reason was given
for repeating the test that early in one in four cases, he said.  Medicare, the health plan for the elderly and disabled,
reimbursed physicians in 98 percent of the cases, even though it
violated the agency’s guidelines, Gordon said in a telephone
interview. While the research didn’t study the cost of speeded-
up testing, Goodwin said it indicated the health plan may be
paying for more procedures than it would under the guidelines
and that more patients might face side effects from the testing.  “This is not just an economic argument,” said Goodwin,
who has worked at the Galveston, Texas-based medical branch of
the university for 18 years. “When you stick a hose up your
rectum, some bad things can happen.”  One of every 1,000 people who get a colonoscopy end up in
the hospital and one of 10,000 die, Goodwin said. This leads to
more spending by Medicare, which then must cover the hospital
stay and cost of treatment. Among the most common complications
are a perforated bowel and excessive bleeding if a tissue sample
is cut out for testing, the geriatrician said.  ‘Cutting Back Care’  “At a time when we’re arguing over how much we spend on
Medicare and we’re thinking of cutting back care, here is a
place where we can limit what’s going on and it will keep people
safer,” Goodwin said.  The 10-year waiting period also makes sense because it takes
years for a polyp, a balloon-like growth in the colon, to
develop into cancer, Goodwin said. About 8 percent of polyps
become cancerous after 10 years. If polyps are discovered, the
time between screenings decreases to three to five years,
according to federal guidelines, established by an independent
panel of doctors.  In 2009, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in
Baltimore, the administrative agency for the U.S. health
programs, paid physicians $56.9 million for 280,703 screening
colonoscopies for persons at high risk, and $51.4 million for
257,720 screening colonoscopies for persons not at high risk,
said Ellen Griffith, a spokeswoman for the agency.  Every 10 Years  The program pays for colonoscopies every 10 years for
Medicare beneficiaries who aren’t considered high risk for
developing  colon cancer , Griffith said. If a patient meets the
high-risk criteria, the agency will reimburse for a screening
every 24 months, she said. High-risk patients are defined by
Medicare as those who have had polyps, colorectal cancer or
inflammatory bowel disease or a family history of colon cancer
or polyps.  Medicare outsources the job of finding claims that don’t
fit the agency’s criteria. Griffith said CMS would be looking at
whether Goodwin and his team used the same diagnostic criteria
when they looked at the claims.  “Doctors can also appeal a decision and the study may not
have picked up what happened on appeal,” Griffith said.  2008 Guidelines   The  U.S. Preventive Services Task Force , an independent panel
of doctors and nurses under the federal  Department of Health  and
Human Services,  recommended  in 2008 that patients at the age of
50 begin to get colonoscopy screenings, according to the  task
force ’s website. By age 75, the group recommends against getting
routine tests, and by 85 panel members urged patients to stop
having the procedure.  Yet, more than 9,000 of those in the survey were 75 years
old or older. Forty-six percent of those older than 75 and
younger than 80 received a second screen less than seven years
later, the study showed. One-third of those more than 80
underwent a repeat test.  “It’s troubling to me that this would be the case,” said
 Michael LeFevre , a family practice doctor at the  University of
Missouri , Columbia, who has been on the task force for six
years. “It’s about seven years after the test that you see the
benefits and the probability of living long enough for someone
85 made the benefit not worth the potential harm.”  CMS can’t decline coverage to those over 85 who aren’t
deemed high risk if the rule has been established by law and
Congress didn’t specifically allow the agency to reject a claim
for the reason of age, she said.  Educated, Wealthy  Men and those with more education, money and other
conditions were more likely to have the follow-up tests, Goodwin
said. The risks of side effects increase for those suffering
from other conditions, he said.  Colorectal cancer usually develops slowly over a period of
10 to 15 years, according to the  American Cancer Society  in
Atlanta. About 51,000 people  died  in 2010 from the disease and
102,000 were diagnosed with it, the cancer society said.  Goodwin and his colleagues also found that expedited
colonoscopies were seen more frequently in certain parts of the
country. In his own state of  Texas , the northwestern section of
the state, known as the Panhandle, was among those with the
highest rate of expedited colonoscopies.  This finding is similar to the regional variation in
health-care spending identified in the  Dartmouth Atlas , a report
that came out of the New Hampshire university originally 20
years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pat Wechsler in  New York  at 
 pwechsler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 