-- 
Lee Says He’ll Invite North Korea for Summit If It Gives Up Nuclear Arms

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-05-10T01:34:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lee-to-invite-north-korea-to-talks-if-it-scraps-nuclear-arms-1-.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
pledged to invite North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  to a summit
meeting on nuclear issues next year provided the communist state
promises to abandon its atomic weapons program.  Lee said he would extend an invitation to Kim for a
security meeting next March if the communist government agrees
to the condition. The South Korean president will host the
summit next year as part of a global initiative championed by
President  Barack Obama  to secure nuclear stockpiles.  Inviting North Korea requires a “firm statement” by Kim’s
regime “that it will renounce nuclear weapons,” Lee said
yesterday after meeting in Berlin with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. He called his comment “an official proposal.”  The North Korean leader told visiting former U.S. President
Jimmy Carter last month that he is ready to meet Lee any time
and over any issue. The South has resisted talks with  North
Korea  until Kim’s regime shows a “responsible attitude” toward
attacks last year that killed 50 South Koreans.  Kim’s government has yet to respond to South Korea’s
proposition in January that North Korea agree to a meeting where
it can reaffirm its commitment to scrap nuclear weapons. North
Korea’s talks with  China ,  Japan ,  Russia , South Korea and the U.S.
on its atomic program haven’t convened since 2008.  U.S. Troops  The North’s nuclear weapons “delay reunification” with
the South, Lee told Korean residents in Berlin on May 8,
according to a statement from his office. The two nations remain
technically at war since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a
cease-fire, which was never replaced by a peace treaty.  The South Korean leader drew a parallel between the 21-
year-old reunification of East and West Germany, alluding to his
stroll through the Brandenburg Gate, which once stood inside the
Berlin Wall’s death strip that separated the Cold War enemies.  “We hope -- and I wish -- that we’ll be able to go from
North Korea to the South through some gate as well,” Lee said.  Lee’s tour of  Europe  this week, including stops in Denmark
and  France , comes as U.S. and Chinese officials meet in
 Washington  for their annual Strategic and Economic Dialogue. The
U.S. stations  troops  in  South Korea  as a legacy of the Korean
War, when China fought alongside North Korea.  North Korea has reported progress on its nuclear programs
even after the  United Nations  toughened sanctions, in November
disclosing its capabilities to enrich uranium that provide a
second means of making weapons. The U.S. has said re-engagement
between South and North Korea should precede any other
discussions after last year’s attacks.  Kim’s Message  Kim expressed his willingness for a summit with Lee in a
written message to Carter, who visited North Korea April 26-28.
Kim has also said he is ready to meet with any of the five
nations involved in the six-party nuclear talks, Carter told
reporters on April 28 in  Seoul .  North Korean military officials walked out of talks with
South Korea in February after refusing to accept any involvement
in the March sinking of the South Korean warship Cheonan that
killed 46 sailors. It was a first contact between the two
nations since North Korea shelled South Korea’s Yeonpyeong
Island in November, killing four people including two civilians.  North Korea said it shelled Yeonpyeong near the western
maritime border it doesn’t recognize because South Korean live-
firing exercises violated its territory.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net . 