-- 
Egypt Stock Exchange Plans ETFs, Short Selling to Spur Trading Amid Unrest

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-05-09T15:06:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/egypt-stock-exchange-plans-etfs-short-selling-to-spur-trading-amid-unrest.html
Egypt ’s  stock exchange  plans to start
exchange-traded funds and allow short-selling this year to boost
trading and give investors greater access to local markets,
Chairman Mohamed Abd El Salam said.  The  Egyptian Exchange  will introduce “same-day” short
selling and lift a restriction on intraday trading this month,
the bourse’s Abd El Salam said in an interview in Dubai
yesterday. Intraday trades have been suspended since March when
the bourse opened following a two-month closure during the
uprising that ousted President  Hosni Mubarak  in February.  The country’s worst political crisis in three decades has
deterred investors and hurt the economy, which the International
Monetary Fund estimates will grow as little as 1 percent this
year, the lowest annual rate since 1992. The benchmark  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  has tumbled 31 percent since January, the world’s worst
performer, while average trading volumes have fallen 30 percent
from the same period a year earlier. The gauge snapped a four-
day decline, rising 1.1 percent today.  Exchange-traded funds “provide investors with another
means to access the market, which can help local companies
attract capital, while limited short-selling should help the
market find prices more quickly,” said Sven Richter, managing
director and head of frontier markets who helps oversee more
than $2 billion at Renaissance Asset Managers in  London . “Both
are positive developments, which will help Egypt deepen its
market.”  The  Market Vectors Egypt Index ETF (EGPT) , a U.S.-listed fund that
holds Egyptian stocks, rose for the first time in seven days,
gaining 0.7 percent to $14.46. The security declined 28 percent
this year.  Derivatives Trading  “The political risk after the revolution has been
minimized now that we have a roadmap of what will happen
politically, parliamentary elections followed by presidential
elections,” Abd El Salam said. “If an investor waits until
political risk is over, they will lose out.”  Mubarak ceded power on Feb. 11 to the military after a
three-decade rule. The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces
suspended the constitution and announced in March that it plans
to hold parliamentary elections this year.  The unrest delayed the bourse’s plan to introduce ETFs in
the local market, Abd El Salam said. ETFs are typically designed
to mimic the performance of indexes and allow investors to buy
and sell shares of entire portfolios of stock in a single
security.  In the  United Arab Emirates ,  National Bank of Abu Dhabi
PJSC (NBAD)  started the Gulf’s first ETF in March 2010, followed by
Falcom Financial Services’ Islamic fund in  Saudi Arabia  that
month. Global ETF assets surged to $1.37 trillion as of
February, from $74.3 billion in 2000, according to  BlackRock
Inc.  data.  Betting on Losses  Short-selling of assets on the “same day,” where
investors who bet on losses must conclude a transaction before
the end of trading, will help prepare the market before the tool
is introduced this year, Abd El Salam said. Short sellers seek
to profit from declining markets by selling borrowed shares or
bonds, on bets their price will fall, then replacing them with
securities bought at a lower price.  The Egyptian Exchange also plans to introduce derivatives
trading, he said. Still, derivatives may not start this year
“because we don’t want to increase risks at this stage,” Abd
El Salam said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  