-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Slip on Greece Rating Cut; Bovespa Gains

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a
-- 
2011-05-09T23:20:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/emerging-stocks-gain-for-second-day-on-commodities-u-s-data.html
Emerging-market stocks fell after
Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit rating, offsetting a cut
in economists’ forecast of Brazil’s inflation and an early rally
in energy producers on higher  oil prices .  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index lost 0.1 percent to
1,161.94 in  New York , led by declines in east European shares.
Brazil’s Bovespa index gained 0.3 percent as economists cut
their 2011 inflation forecast for the first time in nine weeks.
The Brazilian real gained 0.1 percent to 1.6141 against the
dollar while South Africa’s rand weakened 0.3 percent. Turkey’s
lira dropped 0.3 percent against the greenback.  Stocks and currencies erased gains after Greece’s long-term
sovereign credit rating was lowered two levels to B from BB- by
S&P, which said further reductions are possible. Utilities led
decliners while technology and energy stocks were the top
gainers as crude oil for June delivery jumped $5.37 to settle at
$102.55 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Crude rose the most in almost 11 weeks following a rout
last week that wiped out $99 billion of market value, while a
May 6 report showed U.S. payrolls rose by more than economists
forecast.  “Greek debt issues once again come to the fore,” RBC
Capital Markets strategists led by Toronto-based  Nick Chamie 
wrote in an e-mailed note. Asian markets were helped by
“stronger commodity prices and a positive follow-through from
Friday’s U.S. payrolls,” they wrote.  The MSCI emerging-market index has gained 0.9 percent this
year. The 21-country gauge is still down 3.7 percent from its
2011 high on May 2 and has underperformed the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index
by 4.9 percentage points this year.  East Europe Losses  Hungary’s BUX Index dropped 0.4 percent, while Poland’s
WIG20 Index declined 0.9 percent and Turkey’s  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  slipped 0.4 percent.  The difference in yields between Greece’s benchmark 10-year
bond and comparable German debt increased 17 basis points to
12.3 percentage points today and the cost of insuring its debt
against default reached a record 1,371 basis points.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries was unchanged 2.82 percentage points,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index.  American employers in April added more jobs than forecast
and the labor market in the prior two months was stronger than
initially estimated, indicating the world’s largest economy is
weathering the impact of higher fuel prices, according to a
government report on May 6.  Ringgit Advances  Asian currencies gained, led by Malaysia ’s ringgit, amid
speculation that China will allow faster yuan appreciation.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said China has been
making progress “towards a more flexible  exchange rate ” and
weaning its economy off a dependence on exports. Geithner and
Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan are meeting in Washington this
week as part of the two-day Strategic and Economic Dialogue.  A stronger yuan makes imports such as Malaysian goods
cheaper for buyers from China, which is the second-largest
export market for the Southeast Asian country. The yuan was
little changed today, following a 1.8 percent gain in 2011 to
near a 17-year high.  Won Strength  The South Korean won strengthened 0.1 percent, rebounding
from a two-week low on speculation the government is
prioritizing the fight against inflation with its change in
finance minister. President  Lee Myung Bak  nominated Labor
Minister Bahk Jae Wan as finance chief in a May 6 reshuffle.  “The new finance minister will likely focus on controlling
prices initially, in line with government policy, which means
the won may strengthen more,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based
economist at Hyundai Securities. “It would still be difficult
for any minister to let the won gain too rapidly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  