-- 
Tenet Rejects Community Health’s $7.3 Billion Takeover Bid

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-05-09T20:11:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/tenet-rejects-community-health-s-7-3-billion-takeover-bid-2-.html
Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC) ’s board said it
rejected a “grossly inadequate” $7.3 billion takeover bid from
 Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  on the morning of a deadline to
open negotiations.  Tenet’s board voted unanimously to reject the offer as
“not in the best interests of its shareholders,” the Dallas-
based hospital chain said in a statement today. Community
Health, based in Franklin,  Tennessee , said May 2 that it would
walk away from the unsolicited bid if “good-faith discussions”
don’t begin by the end of today.  Community Health raised its offer by 21 percent last week,
to $7.25 a share, as it sought to draw Tenet into a deal that
would create the biggest hospital company in the U.S.  Tenet has
said “no” since an original offer in December. Last month, it
filed a lawsuit accusing  Community Health  of defrauding
Medicare, the government insurance program, and said the legal
troubles could make it hard to finance the acquisition.  “We continue to believe that the execution of Tenet’s
current business strategy will deliver greater value than
Community Health’s inadequate proposal and we are not willing to
enter into discussions based on many factors, including a
grossly inadequate offer,” Tenet’s chief executive officer,
Trevor Fetter, said in today’s statement.  Tenet’s board also authorized up to $400 million in share
repurchases, according to the statement. The stock will be
bought “at times and amounts based on market conditions and
other factors,” Tenet said.  Brooke Gordon, a Community Health spokeswoman, declined to
comment in a telephone interview. The $7.3 billion figure
includes net debt.  Tenet fell 1 cent to $6.52 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. Community Health rose 45 cents, or
1.5 percent, to $31.08.  -- With assistance from Pat Wechsler in New York. Editors: Bruce
Rule, James Callan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   Rgale5@bloomberg.net  