-- 
England World Cup Bid Said to Have Hired Security Firm to Snoop on Rivals

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-09T16:27:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/england-world-cup-bid-said-to-have-hired-security-firm-to-snoop-on-rivals.html
English soccer officials hired a
security company to gather information about rivals during their
failed bid to host the 2018  World Cup , according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The English group asked the investigator to find what other
bidders for the vote, won by Russia on Dec. 1, were doing to
gain support from members of FIFA’s executive committee and to
prevent rivals from gathering information about its own effort,
said the people, who declined to be identified because they
aren’t authorized to speak publicly.  Sepp Blatter, the president of  FIFA , soccer’s world
governing body, said in an interview that “fair play” was an
essential part of the sport that was founded in Britain. Julian Eccles, a spokesman for England’s Football Association, declined
to comment.  Former F.A. Chairman  David Triesman  will appear tomorrow
before a U.K. parliamentary committee to discuss the bidding
process. He resigned from his post a year ago after being
secretly taped saying Spain and  Portugal  had agreed to share
votes with Qatar, the Gulf nation that was the surprise
selection to host the 2022 tournament.  The Culture, Media & Sport Committee will hear the evidence
from Triesman. English soccer’s governing body spent 15 million
pounds ($25 million) on its two-year campaign, a smaller budget
that Russia’s.  Prince William   U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , Prince William and
government officials travelled to Zurich to lobby the 22 FIFA
officials who could vote on the World Cup. A private security
agent was also working with an assumed identity in the Baur au
Lac hotel, where  England ’s bid team did most of its lobbying the
night before the final vote, according to one of the people.  The FIFA voting panel was reduced to 22 members from 24 a
few weeks before the poll because two officials were suspended
following in a probe into allegations they told undercover
reporters from  London ’s Sunday Times that their votes could be
bought.  Blatter, in an interview today, didn’t directly address the
accusations of spying.  “When you speak about spies here and there we are in this
game and in this game we have to realize there are a lot of
people that want to destroy something but it’s a question of
fair play,” Blatter said. “Fair play is one of the matters
that have been invented by British football.”  Early Elimination  England was eliminated in the first round of voting, after
getting just two votes, including that of the Geoff Thomson, an
F.A. board member who sat on FIFA’s executive committee. Russia
beat  Spain /Portugal after a joint Netherlands/Belgium bid was
voted out.  “I am totally surprised,” Francois Colin, a spokesman for
the Dutch and Belgian effort, said in an interview. “It was
something we never thought about doing. But it wouldn’t have
been a problem for us because everything we were doing was open
and transparent.”  A month after the vote, Cameron described the way soccer is
governed as “murky.”  “I definitely had a number of those FIFA executives who
looked me in the eye and shook my hand and said, ‘Don’t worry,
we’re with you,’” Cameron said in an  interview with the British
Broadcasting Corp . “I’m afraid that the world of football
governance is rather murky in that way.”  FIFA has come under fire for the way the World Cup process
was run. Blatter told a German newspaper last week he may change
the system so all of the organization’s 208 national
associations can vote on where the World Cup is held should he
be re-elected as FIFA leader in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  at the London newsroom
on   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 