-- 
Merkel Allies Signal Germany Backing Off Push for Greek Debt Restructuring

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 
2011-05-09T22:00:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/merkel-allies-signal-germany-backs-off-greek-restructuring-push.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition may be backing away from signals it was willing to
accept a Greek debt restructuring as the government tries to put
off an outcome that some investors say is only a matter of time.  The parliamentary finance and budget spokesmen have both
endorsed steps to avoid a restructuring before a meeting today
of lawmakers from Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc to discuss
Greece. Merkel may give her own view on the matter when she 
briefs foreign journalists in Berlin at 11 a.m.  The comments in recent days contrast with the position of
German officials as recently as last month, when Deputy Foreign
Minister Werner Hoyer said a Greek debt restructuring “would
not be a disaster.” Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble 
referred to restructuring Greece’s debt in an interview in Die
Welt newspaper published on April 14. He subsequently said his
remarks had been misinterpreted. A Merkel economic adviser, Lars Feld, has called it unavoidable.  “It’s inevitable that Greece will have to restructure its
debt” given the level of debt relative to the economy,  Ben May ,
an economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said in a phone
interview. “You can delay that by offering bailouts. It may
well be in the rest of  Europe ’s interest to delay restructuring
to give their own banking sectors time to prepare for that.”  French and German lenders accounted for almost two-thirds
of lending to Greek public and private debtors as of Sept. 30,
according to the  Bank for International Settlements . French
banks held $59.4 billion and German banks $40.3 billion,
followed by U.K. and Portuguese lenders to Greece.  Banks Pushing ‘Hard’  German banks are pushing “hard to avoid a default,”
Fredrik Erixon, director of the European Centre for
International Political Economy in Brussels, said by phone.  The urgency of Germany’s deliberations was underlined
yesterday as Greece’s credit rating was cut two levels to B by
 Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investor Corp. warned of a
downgrade.  Greece plans to sell 1.25 billion euros ($1.78 billion) of
26-week Treasury bills today. It has only sold 26-week and 13-
week bills since getting the European Union-led bailout in May
2010. Greece’s last sale of 26-week bills, which raised 2
billion euros, were priced to yield 4.8 percent, more than
 Germany  pays to borrow for 30 years.  The yield on Greek 10-year bonds rose 12 basis points
yesterday to 15.6 percent, more than twice the level of a year
ago when Greece accepted a bailout.  ‘Even Bigger Problem’  Germany would consider more help for Greece to avoid
restructuring, which would risk “maneuvering ourselves into an
even bigger problem than we have already,” Michael Meister, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said yesterday by phone.  In return for steps that might include lower  interest rates 
and longer maturities on aid, Greece must accelerate its state
asset sales program to convince creditors it’s serious about
cutting debt, Meister said.  “There’s no alternative to keeping afloat the idea that we
need to help  Greece  help itself,”  Norbert Barthle , CDU budget
spokesman in parliament, said by phone on May 7. “We’ll just
have to bite the bullet and go along with it, for believe me,
the appetite for restructuring the country’s debt is not
there.”  The premium investors demand to hold Greek 10-year bonds
over equivalent German debt rose by nearly 3 percentage points
since April 14 to 1,261 basis points yesterday.  A year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro bailout
that aimed to stem the spread of the region’s sovereign crisis,
the measure isn’t working. Euro-area finance ministers held an
unannounced meeting on May 6 in Luxembourg to work on a new aid
package for Greece.  Euro Tumbles  The euro tumbled the most in a year that day after Spiegel
magazine reported that Greece was considering to leave the euro
area and return to the drachma.  As with the Greek bailout a year ago, Merkel’s government
is again beholden to Germany’s political calendar as it presses
for a solution to the latest flare-up of the Greek crisis.  “I’m not sure that Germany has a fixed plan, but they want
some clarification about the Greek issue before parliament votes
on the ESM,” the post-2013 European Stability Mechanism for
indebted euro-area states, said  Holger Schmieding , London-based
chief economist at Joh. Berenberg Gossler & Co.  That’s “very different from saying Germany has concluded
Greece needs a haircut and is now executing its devilish plan,”
he said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at  jhertling@bloomberg.net  