-- 
Terry Gilliam’s Gas-Chamber ‘Faust’ Is Sick Joke: Review

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-05-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/terry-gilliam-s-gas-chamber-london-faust-is-sick-joke-warwick-thompson.html
Terry Gilliam, the Monty Python
cartoonist and Hollywood film maker, serves up impressive
spectacle and insalubrious taste in his Holocaust-based “The
Damnation of Faust” at  English National Opera  in London.  The opera novice turns Berlioz’s 1846 opera-oratorio into a
gallows-humor show about the rise of National Socialism.  Faust (Peter Hoare, made to look like the odd anti-hero of
David Lynch’s film “Eraserhead”) is a dreamy German thinker.
He first appears against the kind of sublime romantic landscape
made famous by painter Caspar David Friedrich.  Hildegard Bechtler creates stylized sets with plenty of wow
factor.  Then along comes jolly Mephistopheles (Christopher Purves),
who lures Faust into the bombastic grandeur of Nazism. He even
conjures up a razzle-dazzle choreographed recreation of the 1936
Berlin Olympics to tempt him.  The members of the somewhat portly male chorus, in white
shorts and stomach-squeezing corsets, do their best to look like
Aryan gods.  Faust falls in love with a young Jewish girl, Marguerite
(Christine Rice), and then abandons her. Marguerite is herded
off to Auschwitz by the Nazis.  When Mephistopheles offers Faust the chance to rescue her,
it leads to the highlight of an evening already bursting with
surprising theatrical flair. They jump in a motorbike and
sidecar, and take a thrilling night ride among dazzling,
whirling video projections.  Real Flames  At the orchestral climax, Faust learns that he has been
duped. He’s flung into the gas chamber himself. There are
exciting explosions and real flames. He rises from the fire
transformed into a surreal human swastika. Flakes of charred
flesh then gently flutter over Marguerite’s body, while a
celestial choir hymns her soul.  It looks expensive, and feels cheap as hell.  Should the Holocaust be trivialized this way for the sake
of a coup de theatre? Is a jokey, cool, ironic tone really
appropriate for the subject? Gilliam offers no new insights into
anti-Semitism or the rise of German militarism.  Kristallnacht as a lively production number. Dancing Nazis.
It comes perilously close to a non-parody version of Mel Brooks’s fiction play “Springtime for Hitler,” without the
rigorous framing device of “The Producers” to make such a risk
of taste acceptable.  Musically, standards are high. Conductor Edward Gardner
delights in Berlioz’s exquisite orchestration. Hoare sings with
a good ringing timbre, even if his voice tires by the end. Rice
brings vocal splendor and touching pathos to Marguerite. Purves,
as the uber-Nazi Mephistopheles, offers us a silken baritone,
conspiratorial winks at the audience, and deep throaty chuckles.  It’s disturbing, but not in the way intended. Rating: **.  Intense Villazon  There’s another opera production by a film maker at Covent
Garden. Benoit Jacquot’s dull 18th-century period staging of
Massenet’s “Werther” is revived as a vehicle for tenor Roland Villazon.  Villazon leaped to superstardom at the  Royal Opera House  in
2004 as Hoffmann, took on some heavy roles, and then suffered a
series of vocal setbacks and cancellations.  They’ve taken their toll on his voice, which now has a
touch of raspiness in the formerly firm baritonal register and a
constrained, veiled sound at the top.  His acting is intense as ever, his stage presence magnetic
and his musicality impeccable. A lesser Villazon is still a
better proposition than plenty of other tenors. It all adds
pathos to the unfortunate loss of a great voice.  For the rest, the production trundles along dutifully.
Mezzo Sophie Koch sings with shining richness as love-interest
 Charlotte . Antonio Pappano’s conducting is passionate, and
sensitive to Villazon’s vocal state. Rating: **.  “The Damnation of Faust” is at ENO through June 7.
Information: http:// www.eno.org or +44-871-911-0200.
“Werther” is on until May 21 at the Royal Opera House,
 http://www.roh.org.uk  or +44-20-7304-4000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 