-- 
Hertz Makes $2.24 Billion Offer for Dollar Thrifty to Foil Avis

-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 
2011-05-09T20:23:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hertz-trumps-avis-with-72-a-share-offer-to-buy-dollar-thrifty-automotive.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ) , the
largest publicly traded rental-car company, offered to buy
 Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group Inc. (DTG)  for $2.24 billion in cash
and stock, topping a bid by  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR)   Hertz offered $72 a share, 24 percent more than Avis’s
offer, the  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based company said today in a
statement. Dollar Thrifty rose $9.58, or 14 percent, to $79.27
at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the
biggest jump since May 3, 2010, when Avis proposed making a
counter bid to Hertz’s original offer.  Hertz aims to thwart the planned combination of Avis and
Dollar Thrifty after having an earlier offer rejected. Since
then, Parsippany, New Jersey-based Avis and Dollar Thrifty,
which has its headquarters in Tulsa,  Oklahoma , have been seeking
U.S. Federal Trade Commission approval for a deal that would
combine the third- and fourth-largest U.S. rental-car companies.  “I feel certain that this will not be the last act of the
bidding process either,” Fred Lowrance, an analyst with
Avondale Partners LLC in Nashville,  Tennessee , said in an e-
mail. “I would expect to hear from Avis -- FTC clearance or not
-- very soon.”  Hertz’s offer, which isn’t subject to financing conditions,
consists of $57.60 in cash and 0.8546 Hertz shares. It valued
the offer at $2.24 billion for outstanding shares, options and
restricted stock units. Hertz said it expects to begin its
exchange offer next week. Hertz said it has held discussions
with the FTC and has begun selling its Advantage brand to
facilitate approval.  ‘Superior Bid’  “We have today made a superior bid,” Chief Executive
Officer Mark Frissora said in the statement, which described the
offer as an 18 percent premium to the 60-day average share
price. “We are seeking a consensual business combination with
Dollar Thrifty and are proceeding on an accelerated timetable.”  Hertz said it decided to act after listening to Dollar
Thrifty’s and Avis’s conference calls last week discussing their
quarterly earnings and hearing little advancement with
regulators.  “The timing was right for us to jump in and push through,
given the lack of progress over what was happening with the
FTC,” Frissora said today on a conference call with analysts
and investors. Hertz has been “waiting and watching for a long
time.” A deal may close by Sept. 30, he said.  Hertz already owned about 1.6 percent of Dollar Thrifty’s
outstanding shares as of April 29, according to a filing today.  Dollar Thrifty’s board is reviewing the offer, the company
said in a statement.  Avis Bid  Investors in Dollar Thrifty rejected a $1.44 billion offer
from Hertz, the largest worldwide airport car-rental brand, on
Sept. 30, providing an opening for Avis to buy the company. At
the time, Hertz said the offer was its “best and final.” The
winning bidder would become the second-largest U.S. auto-rental
chain by revenue, trailing closely held Enterprise.  Avis offered $45.79 and 0.6543 of its shares for Dollar
Thrifty and, in early October, agreed to delay an exchange offer
while the two began working toward regulatory approval. Avis
also offered a $20 million breakup fee that Dollar Thrifty had
requested.  Andrew Siegel , an Avis spokesman, declined to comment
today.  In January, Dollar Thrifty said the FTC’s position on the
potential bid “remains uncertain.” A little more than a month
later, Avis said it “remained committed” to acquiring Dollar
Thrifty and that it hoped to get clarity from the FTC in a few
weeks.  Long Struggle  Before the September vote, Hertz and Avis fought over
Dollar Thrifty for almost five months, seeking a bigger share of
the U.S. market. The four largest U.S. rental-car companies
account for 81 percent of the industry’s revenue, according to
IBISWorld.  Hertz is the largest worldwide airport car-rental brand,
operating from more than 8,500 locations in 150 countries.  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  in December 2005 sold Hertz to Clayton Dubilier & Rice
Inc., the  Carlyle Group  and Merrill Lynch’s buyout unit. The
car-rental company raised $1.32 billion in an initial share sale
less than a year later.  Hertz fell 17 cents, or 1 percent, to $16.68. Avis gained 6
cents to $18.47.  Dollar Thrifty gained 79 percent from the trading day
before Hertz announced its first offer on April 26, 2010,
through May 6. The shares had fallen from $53 on March 22, 2007,
to 62 cents on March 3, 2009.  CDS Trading  The cost to protect Hertz’s debt from default for five
years jumped to the highest level since April 27. Credit-default
swaps on the company’s debt added 11.3 basis points to 309.5
basis points, according to data provider CMA.  Contracts on Avis added 3.1 basis points to 385.5,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP is representing Hertz in the
transaction, the law firm said in an e-mailed statement.  Lazard,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Bank of America Merrill Lynch and
Deutsche Bank AG are acting as financial advisers to Hertz on
the offer for Dollar Thrifty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 