-- 
EU Plan May Lead to Cash-Settled CO2 Futures, Barclays Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-09T16:03:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/eu-plan-may-lead-to-cash-settled-co2-futures-barclays-says-1-.html
A European Union plan to boost the
security of the spot carbon market may lead to more cash
settlement of futures contracts, said Barclays Plc.  The proposal to impose a 24-hour delay in the transfer of
carbon permits may slow the settlement of futures, the biggest
part of the market,  Trevor Sikorski , an analyst in London at
 Barclays Capital , said today by phone. That’s because a futures
contract can trade many times during its life, he said.  “There will be chains of transactions that have grown up
around the derivative products,” Sikorski said. “It would be
reckless and unfortunate for the European Commission to distort
the operation of the forward market to try and solve a problem
in the much smaller  spot market ,” he said in a research note.  The EU proposals May 5 sought to better protect the bloc’s
carbon-registry from fraud and abuse after thieves roiled the
market during the past year. The  proposed regulation  on the EU
registry, which is slated to start operating next year, include
the 24-hour delay as well as a plan to make serial numbers of
carbon permits invisible to market participants.  The futures market makes up about 85 percent of carbon
trading. There’s 464 million metric tons of open interest on the
ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London , according to data from
the exchange.  ‘Stolen Property’  Hiding serial numbers may make trading riskier, not more
secure, because regulators may force registries to publish who
has bought stolen allowances, Sikorski said in the note. “It
means buyers cannot take steps to identify stolen EU allowances
once a theft has been reported as there is no way of ensuring
what you are buying is not stolen property.”  Trading in the region’s spot carbon market halted for 15
days earlier this year after computer hackers improperly
transferred about 4 million allowances valued at about 67
million euros ($96 million) at today’s price on the BlueNext
exchange in Paris of 16.73 euros a ton as of 5 p.m. local time.
Permits fell 0.3 percent and have jumped 20 percent in the year
to date.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  