-- 
Euro Weakens Before Greece Auctions Bills Amid Debt Restructuring Concern

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-05-10T05:54:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/euro-trades-near-six-week-low-as-greece-s-rating-cut-renews-debt-concerns.html
The euro fell to a six-week low
against the yen before  Greece  sells Treasury bills today amid
speculation the nation will need to restructure its debt.  The 17-nation currency dropped against 14 of its 16 major
counterparts after Standard & Poor’s fourth downgrade of Greece
since April 2010 rekindled concern the region’s debt crisis is
escalating. Australia’s dollar slid before Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
releases his budget today after promises to cut spending. New
Zealand’s dollar dropped after the  International Monetary Fund 
said the currency may be as much as 20 percent overvalued.  “The markets now view a restructuring of Greece’s debt as
a possibility, whereas they hadn’t previously,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing director in Tokyo at FX Prime Corp., a
foreign-exchange margin company. “The euro is likely undergoing
a downward correction. We may see  risk aversion , which would
probably benefit the yen.”  The euro fell to 114.90 yen at 6:47 a.m. in  London  from
115.43 yen in New York yesterday. It earlier touched 114.80, the
lowest since March 28. The euro dropped to $1.4277 from $1.4365,
after declining to $1.4255 yesterday, the weakest since April
19. The single currency slid to 87.23 pence from 87.56 pence
after reaching 87.21 pence, the weakest since April 6. The
dollar traded at 80.47 yen from 80.36 yen.  Greece is scheduled to auction 1.25 billion euros ($1.79
billion) of 182-day bills today. S&P lowered the country’s
credit rating to B from BB- yesterday, saying that further
reductions are possible. Another cut would make Greece the
lowest-rated nation in  Europe .  S&P’s Downgrade  The downgrade came after an unannounced meeting of European
finance ministers on May 6 in which they agreed Greece needed
more help to avoid a restructuring. The country received a 110
billion euro bailout last year, and was followed by Ireland and
Portugal in seeking aid.  “It was expected that Greece would be able to refinance
itself via the market next year and there now are strong
indications that won’t happen,” European Central Bank Governing
Council member Ewald Nowotny said in a radio  interview  with
Austrian state broadcaster ORF.  Credit-default swaps on Greek debt jumped 30 basis points
to a record 1,369 yesterday, according to CMA, signaling a 69
percent probability of default within five years.  Australia ’s dollar snapped a two-day advance following
comments by Swan yesterday that the government will make
“substantial” spending cuts to counter revenue declines caused
by the currency’s strength, the nation’s costliest natural
disasters and Japan’s record earthquake in March.  Overvalued Kiwi  Australia’s dollar declined to $1.0748 from $1.0807
yesterday when it jumped 1 percent. The currency weakened 0.4
percent to 86.50 yen. New Zealand’s so-called kiwi dropped 0.6
percent to 79.08 U.S. cents and fell 0.5 percent to 63.63 yen.  New Zealand’s currency may be as much as 20 percent
overvalued relative to estimates of the equilibrium  exchange
rate , the  IMF  said. Part of the overvaluation reflects the large
positive interest-rate differential, which may dissipate with
eventual tightening by major central banks, the Washington-based
group said as part of an annual review of the country’s economy.  Gains in the greenback were limited amid speculation that
Federal Reserve officials will reiterate this week their
intention to keep  interest rates  low to stimulate growth.  New York  Fed President William C. Dudley said on May 6 that
the U.S. recovery is still falling short of the central bank’s
goals. Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker will speak in
Arlington, Virginia today, while Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  will speak in Atlanta tomorrow.  Fed Futures  “The Fed has said it intends to continue a loose policy
stance,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior strategist in Tokyo at
Mizuho Trust & Banking Co., a unit of Japan’s second-largest
bank. “The dollar is easy to sell.”  Futures on the Chicago Board of Trade showed yesterday a 14
percent chance the Fed will raise its benchmark rate by
December, down from 21 percent odds a week earlier.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese
Vice Premier Wang Qishan pledged yesterday to tackle currency,
financial services and trade conflicts between the world’s two
biggest economies. Geithner said  China  has been making progress
“towards a more flexible exchange rate.”  China’s customs bureau today reported a $11.4 billion trade
surplus for April, compared with a surplus of $140 million the
previous month and $1.68 billion a year earlier. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey had estimated the gap would be $3.2 billion.
Import growth slowed to 21.8 percent in April from a year
earlier while exports grew 29.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 