-- 
Euro Holds No. 1 Spot as EU Shows Resolve on Greece Debt

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-05-09T16:50:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/euro-holds-onto-no-1-spot-in-currencies-as-eu-shows-resolve-on-greek-debt.html
European Union leaders are showing
their resolve in keeping the euro region together, agreeing in
an unannounced meeting on May 6 to review the terms of the 110
billion-euro ($158 billion) lifeline  Greece  received last year.  The euro tumbled 3.45 percent in the final two days of last
week, the biggest back-to-back loss since 2008, as the  European
Central Bank  signaled it is in no rush to raise interest rates
and Der Spiegel magazine said Greece may withdraw from the
currency bloc. EU officials denied the report and said Greece
will need more aid.  Standard & Poor’s  reduced the nation’s
credit rating by two level today as investors drove yields on
its two-year notes to more than 25 percent.  Even with last week’s decline, the single European currency
was the year’s best performer through May 6 after German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said Jan. 12 her country would do
“whatever is needed to support the euro,” exports grew and the
ECB raised borrowing costs for the first time since 2008.
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes of 10 developed-nation
currencies show the euro has gained 2.4 percent, compared with
drops of 4.7 percent in the dollar and 4.2 percent in the yen.  Monetary union will survive “as long as the core economies
remain strong,”  Stuart Thomson , a Glasgow, Scotland-based money
manager at Ignis Asset Management, which oversees about
$120 billion, said in a May 7 phone interview. The meeting of
finance ministers “shows their determination to support Greece.
The move downward in the past few days has been very rapid, and
we would expect it to get some support from here,” he said of
the euro.  Euro Last Week  The euro fell 3.3 percent last week to $1.4316, while
weakening 4 percent against the yen to 115.44 in the biggest
weekly decline in a year. The shared currency was 1.3 percent
lower versus the pound, fetching 87.49 pence, and dropped 1.8
percent against the Swiss franc to 1.2582. It traded at $1.4312,
115.39 yen, 87.55 pence and 1.2489 francs today.  French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde , who urged the EU
in 2007 to weaken the currency when it was trading at the same
level as now, said last week the euro is doing “extremely
well” and its appreciation won’t hurt economic growth.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said the same on
May 2, adding the currency’s appreciation is “not worrying.”  ‘Vote of Confidence’  As Greek bonds tumbled in recent weeks, the euro rose to
$1.4940 on May 4, the strongest since December 2009, before
falling. The 17-nation currency has appreciated from last year’s
low of $1.1877 in June, which EU leaders likely view as “a vote
of confidence in the euro” and in their efforts to contain the
region’s sovereign-debt crisis, Thomson said.  “From their perspective, the fact that business confidence
in  Germany  and France remains strong is evidence of their
ability to withstand the currency appreciation,” he said.  Europe ’s parliament approved a permanent European Stability
Mechanism in March to succeed last year’s 440 billion-euro,
three-year  European Financial Stability Facility  created to
assist the most-indebted countries.  While Greece, Ireland and Portugal have sought bailouts,
the euro’s rally shows easing concern that the currency union
will dissolve, a risk highlighted by former U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman Paul Volcker in a speech last May 13 in  London  and
billionaire investor George Soros on Jan. 26 in Davos,
Switzerland, at the  World Economic Forum .  Euro Versus Dollar  The euro is up 9.7 percent against the dollar since
Merkel’s January comments, which were endorsed by French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,
business confidence rose to a record in February, according to
the Munich-based Ifo institute.  Strategists are struggling to keep up with the euro’s
gains. They raised their year-end estimate an average of 2.2
percent in April, the most for any Group of 10 currency, and the
median forecast of $1.40 is still weaker than current market
rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Der Spiegel  reported, without saying how it got the
information, that Greece is considering withdrawing from the
euro and returning to its old currency. The Greek  Finance
Ministry  denied any plan to leave the euro in an e-mailed
statement.  The German Finance Ministry said reintroducing Greece’s old
currency would lead to a devaluation that would boost the
country’s outstanding debt by as much as 50 percent, Der Spiegel
said, citing an internal study prepared at the ministry.  Greece Aid Speculation  Expanding the lifeline Greece received last year may mean
that assets or revenue from asset sales will be required to
obtain extra funds, said a person with direct knowledge of the
May 6 meeting in Luxembourg, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. While demanding collateral may
help avoid a political backlash against bailouts, it may not
prevent a restructuring of Greek debt.  Greece’s credit rating was cut to B from BB- by S&P, which
said further reductions are possible, with private investors at
risk if maturities are extended on the nation’s emergency-aid
package. Another rating cut would make Greece the lowest-rated
country in Europe as today’s move left it even with Belarus
after the fourth reduction by S&P since April 2010.  “We think that Greece does need a further adjustment
program. This has to be discussed in detail,” Juncker said in
Luxembourg last week, when European finance officials met for
talks that included Greece.  ‘Existential Concerns’  “It does bring to the forefront the existential concerns
about the euro,”  Samarjit Shankar , a managing director for the
foreign-exchange group in  Boston  at Bank of New York Mellon
Corp., said in a telephone interview on May 6. “It underscores
the risks that have never really gone away, but had gone to the
back burner.”  Investors have driven yields on two-year Greek government
notes above 25 percent from as low as 2.74 percent last year
amid concern the nation’s leaders will require bondholders to
accept losses as part of any restructuring.  Concern Greece will restructure its debt caused investors
to demand an extra 12.33 percentage points in yield to own the
nation’s 10-year notes rather than German bunds of similar
maturity last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gap expanded from an average 2.73 percentage points in January
2010. The spread on Portuguese bonds widened to 6.39 percentage
points from an average 0.87 percentage point.  Portugal Assistance  Portugal announced on May 3 an agreement for a 78 billion-
euro three-year loan package, which also gives the nation more
time to reduce the  budget deficit .  At the same time, concern is spreading that the region’s
weaker economies won’t withstand higher  interest rates , boosting
chances the debt crisis will worsen and prompt the ECB to
reverse last month’s increase in the refinancing rate to 1.25
percent from 1 percent.  That’s what happened in July 2008, when the ECB raised
borrowing costs to 4.25 percent as the Fed was cutting the
target rate for overnight loans between banks. European policy
makers were forced to change course after Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc.’s collapse in September sparked the worst global
financial crisis since World War II.  After that, the euro slumped 9.8 percent between July 2008
and May 2009 as the ECB cut the rate to 1 percent.  The currency may have risen too fast, making it vulnerable
as the Fed ends its $600 billion bond-purchase program known as
quantitative easing in June, said  David Bloom , London-based
global head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings Plc.  ‘Bit Overdone’  “The euro is a bit overdone,” Bloom said. “It’s still
very possible that the dollar can come back” this year and push
the common currency down to $1.40, he said by phone last week.  When the euro approached $1.50 in October 2007, Lagarde
said finance ministers should discuss selling the currency to
keep the advance from hurting exports. As the shared currency
climbed to an all-time high of $1.6038 in July 2008, European
manufacturing was contracting and exports weakening.  Now, factory output and exports are surging. A Markit
Economics gauge of manufacturing rose to a 59 in February, the
highest level since June 2000, from 47.4 in July 2008 and the
low of 33.5 in February 2009. Exports increased 1.6 percent in
February to a record, with goods and services shipped to the
U.S. jumping 30 percent in January, according to Eurostat.
Germany’s sales abroad surged in March to the highest monthly
value ever recorded, a government report showed today.  The economy likely expanded 2.2 percent in the first
quarter, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg. That compares with 1.8 percent growth in the U.S.
in the period.  ‘More Value’  The euro is doing “extremely well,” Lagarde said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on May 4, adding that “you
certainly get more value out” of a stronger euro when prices of
commodities such as oil are rising. Juncker said last week in
Tallinn, Estonia, the currency’s strength won’t hinder growth in
the region.  Europe’s politicians may be supporting a stronger currency
to help contain inflation by making the cost of imported goods
cheaper and lessening the pressure on ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet to raise rates.  Inflation in the 17-nation euro region accelerated to the
fastest pace in 2 1/2 years in April, reaching 2.8 percent,
according to the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg. Gains in
consumer prices have exceeded the ECB’s 2 percent limit each
month since last year.  ‘Hawkish’ ECB  “The ECB will stay hawkish because inflation is very
ugly” in the euro area, said Christoph Kind, head of  asset
allocation  at Frankfurt-based Frankfurt Trust, which manages
$24 billion. “A strong currency is quite good in times of
rising commodity prices, so the common attitude is to tolerate
an appreciating euro.”  Hedge funds and other large speculators held a net 99,516
contracts at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange as of May 3 betting
on a gain in the euro, the most since July 2007, according to
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission. As
recently as January, there was a net euro short position.  “In a world where you have inflationary pressure it is
desirable to get a stronger currency,” said Pierre Lequeux,
London-based head of currency management at Aviva Investors,
which manages about $370 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  