-- 
FDIC’s Bair Will Leave July 8 After ‘Living-Will’ Rule

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-05-09T22:29:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/fdic-s-bair-will-leave-post-july-8-after-finishing-bank-living-will-rule.html
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
Chairman  Sheila Bair  will leave her post July 8, a week after
the official expiration of her term, the agency announced.  Bair, whose term officially ends June 30, plans to stay the
extra days to finish work on the rule requiring systemically
risky firms to outline how they can be unwound in the event of a
collapse, a person briefed on the matter said.  The final rule on the so-called living wills is to be voted
on during an FDIC board meeting in the first week of July, said
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the plan
isn’t public.  The FDIC rule will require financial companies with at least
$50 billion in assets to provide information on their debt,
funding, capital and cash flows. The plan is designed to
mitigate some of the risks that exacerbated the credit crisis
after  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  collapsed in 2008.  Bair, 57, said at a  Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago  meeting
May 5 that the Fed and FDIC must be willing to force
systemically important financial firms to create “credible and
actionable” resolution plans.  Companies failing to submit credible plans could be subject
to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements as
well as restrictions on their growth, activities or operations,
agency officials have said.  Writing a Book  Bair, who is serving as the 19th chairman of the agency,
has said she was not interested in renewing her term and intends
to write a book and spend time with her family.  “Consistent with previous public statements, Chairman
Bair has announced her intention to depart the agency following
the expiration of her term,” the FDIC said today in a
statement. Bair will lead her final meeting as chairman during
the first week in July, the agency said.  President  Barack Obama  faces several high-level regulatory
vacancies within the next several months, including the FDIC
chair and the head of the new Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, which is scheduled to officially start work on July 21.  Bair, a former assistant Treasury secretary and  New York 
Stock Exchange executive, took the helm at the FDIC in June 2006
after being appointed by President  George W. Bush  to replace
Donald Powell, who moved to the Department of  Homeland Security .  Praise, Criticism  A Republican who once served as a policy aide to former
Senator Bob Dole, she drew praise from Democratic lawmakers in
guiding the FDIC through a financial crisis that saw banks fail
at the fastest pace since the savings-and-loan crisis of the
1980s and early 1990s.  At the same time, she found herself at odds with government
officials including Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , who
was president of the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  during the
 Bush administration  and sought to have her replaced as chairman
after Barack Obama was elected president in 2008.  “In the Bush administration, she was not seen as a team
player,” former FDIC General Counsel John Douglas, now a partner
at the Davis Polk & Wardwell law firm in New York, said in a
2009 interview. “It was clear she was standing up for what she
thought her role was as chairman of the FDIC.”  For her part, Bair rejected the criticism and said reports
of conflict were overblown by the media.  “People need to make up their minds whether they want us to
be a tough regulator or a weak, accommodating regulator,” she
said in 2009.  Lawmakers including Representative  Barney Frank , the
Massachusetts Democrat who led efforts to enact the regulatory
overhaul that bears his name, praised Bair for pushing banks and
regulators to protect homeowners as foreclosures soared after
the collapse of the U.S. mortgage market.  Bair successfully pushed for the FDIC to be given authority
under the Dodd-Frank Act for unwinding failed companies whose
collapse could threaten the broader economy as happened in 2008.
The living-wills measure is part of that authority.  Bair, who was born in  Kansas , is married and has two
children.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  