-- 
Fed Nominee Diamond to Get Third Vote by Senate Banking Panel

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-05-09T22:02:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/fed-nominee-diamond-may-get-committee-vote-may-12-aide-says.html
Peter Diamond , the Nobel Prize-winning
economist whose nomination for a Federal Reserve Board seat has
been held up by Republican lawmakers, will get a third vote by a
Senate panel this week.  The Senate Banking Committee will vote on Diamond, 71, and
five nominees for other government positions at the start of a
May 12 hearing on financial regulation that includes Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke as a witness, the panel said today in
an e-mailed statement.  Diamond’s nomination was blocked in the Senate last year
after twice winning the committee’s approval. Getting confirmed
by the full chamber may require Democrats to fight potential
filibusters or get senators including Alabama’s  Richard Shelby 
to relax their opposition. Shelby says Diamond lacks monetary-
policy expertise and disagrees with his support of stimulus
spending to combat recessions.  The panel held a hearing May 3 on the other candidates
including Timothy Massad, head of the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, for the position of assistant Treasury secretary for
financial stability. Diamond had a confirmation hearing on March
8.  The Fed’s seven-member board has two vacancies after the
April 2 departure of  Kevin Warsh , 41, who had served since 2006.
The Obama administration hasn’t picked a replacement for Warsh.  Diamond was first nominated to the Fed by President Barack Obama in April 2010. Republicans allowed two other nominees, Fed
Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  and Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin , to
be confirmed while blocking Diamond. Democrats have a narrower
majority over Republicans after losing seats in the November
midterm elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in Washington at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  