-- 
Fiat Has Options to Boost Chrysler Stake to More Than 70%

-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-05-09T16:27:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/fiat-has-options-to-boost-chrysler-stake-to-more-than-70-1-.html
Fiat SpA (F)  has options to increase its
stake in Chrysler Group LLC to more than 70 percent as the U.S.
government seeks to exit its investments in the  auto industry .  Fiat may buy the  U.S. Treasury ’s remaining stake in the 12
months after it repays debts to the government, Chrysler said
today in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Chrysler said in April it would issue new debt to
repay the government loans, allowing Fiat to exercise an option
to increase its stake to 46 percent from 30 percent.  Selling the Treasury’s stake to Fiat would allow the
government to get out of Chrysler more easily than if it waited
for an initial public offering, said Dennis Virag, president of
Automotive Consulting Group in  Ann Arbor , Michigan.  “It’s a two-way street: It lets the government get out of
Chrysler quicker and it lets Chrysler get out from under the
government quicker,” Virag said in a telephone interview.  The Treasury holds an 8.6 percent stake in Chrysler, the
company said last month. That amount would be reduced when
Chrysler meets the final of three performance milestones that
each give Turin, Italy-based Fiat an additional 5 percent stake.  The final goal, to build a vehicle that gets 40 mpg in the
U.S., should be met this year,  Sergio Marchionne , chief
executive officer of Chrysler and Fiat, has said.  Chrysler IPO  Marchionne has said Chrysler may sell shares to the public
later this year or next year if the conditions are right.  “Fiat has the liquidity to buy more Chrysler if they should
want to,” Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse Group AG analyst, said
in an e-mail about the options to buy more than 51 percent. “The
issue is whether it would be better to spend that money on its
own autos business or on Chrysler’s autos business.”  Increasing Fiat’s Chrysler stake would boost the Italian
automaker’s value by giving it more profit from a Chrysler
rebound, Virag said.  Fiat also holds an option to acquire 40 percent of the
original stake held by United Auto Workers union retiree health-
care trust,  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler said. The
option is exercisable from July 1, 2012, to Dec. 31, 2016, and
in amounts of as much as 8 percent in any six-month period,
according to the filing.  General Motors Co. (GM) , 33 percent owned by the Treasury,
should consider using its excess cash for a stock repurchase
from the U.S. government because of the low valuation of the
shares,  Himanshu Patel , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
wrote in a research note May 6.  After selling Detroit-based GM’s shares for $33 in an
initial public offering in November, the U.S. would need to sell
its remaining equity for about $53 a share to break even on its
investment.  GM fell 27 cents to $31.64 at 12:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have dropped 4.1 percent
since the IPO.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  