-- 
Fighting Shell, Toxic Waste, Texan Cleans Town, Wins $150,000

-- B y   M i k e   D i   P a o l a
-- 
2011-05-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/fighting-shell-toxic-waste-texan-cleans-town-wins-150-000.html
When Hilton Kelley takes me to see the
Port Arthur,  Texas , housing project where he was born, it isn’t
to complain about the usual eyesores. There’s no graffiti, no
broken windows, no trash on the ground.  “People care about the neighborhood,” Kelley says.  The problem is next-door. Adjacent to the property are oil
and gas refineries, petrochemical plants and toxic-waste
incinerators. Companies such as Chevron Phillips Chemical Co.,
Shell Oil Co. and  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  have been part of the Port
Arthur skyline for decades.  “Almost every day we’re getting some weird odor oozing
through the community,” he says.  Bad as it is, though, it would be a lot worse if Kelley
hadn’t come back after years away from his hometown and decided
to fight the filth. His efforts won him the Goldman
Environmental Prize last month, along with its $150,000 award.  Kelley, now 50, left  Port Arthur  in 1979 to join the
military. “The Village People really sold me on the Navy,” he
laughs before adding, “I love my country. I love my hometown,
and my community.”  After leaving the service, he found some acting work in
Oakland, including a job as a stand-in for Mykelti Williamson in
the television series “Midnight Caller.”  In 2000, he returned to Port Arthur for Mardi Gras
celebrations and was appalled at what had become of the old
neighborhood.  “I found myself walking around wondering, ‘What happened?
Why did all the stores close? Where did all the people go? Why
was our community falling apart?’”  Industrial Neighbors  The culprits at that time were eight major petrochemical
and hazardous-waste facilities, all planted right up against the
largely black neighborhoods on the west side of the tracks.  “I believe we have been targeted because we are low-income
here, and the people don’t have a loud voice.”  Kelley provided the voice. He launched the nonprofit
 Community in Power and Development Association  Inc. and, with
assistance from the environmental justice group  Global Community
Monitor , started training residents on testing air samples using
simple equipment.  The noxious odors were correlated with serious health
problems. Jefferson County, where Port Arthur is located, has
significantly higher rates of cancer and other illnesses than
the rest of Texas.  Kelley has also brought the message of environmental
injustice to a wider audience. In 2002, he testified before the
 U.S. Senate  on behalf of poor communities. He has spoken on the
issue at Shell’s annual meetings, in  London  and The Hague -- as
a shareholder, having purchased a single share of stock to
secure the right to a microphone.  ‘Good Neighbor’  In 2006, he helped negotiate a “good neighbor” agreement
with Motiva Enterprises LLC, a joint venture of Shell and Saudi
Refining, requiring, among other things, that the refinery
assist local residents with health-care coverage. The deal also
set up a $3.5 million fund for community development.  That year he also led a campaign to block Veolia Corp.’s
bid to import and incinerate 20,000 tons of polychlorinated
biphenyls, or PCBs, at its toxic-waste facility in Port Arthur.  These and other accomplishments won him the Goldman Prize.
When asked how he plans to spend the $150,000 award, he laughs.  “I’m going take a vacation,” he says, but adds that he
plans to devote more time to the hands-on part of his work than
to raising money, which has been all-consuming.  After a tour of the neighborhood, he takes me to Kelley’s
Kitchen, the soul-food diner he owns and occasionally uses as a
meeting place for the nonstop organizing.  ‘I Give a Damn’  “What made me take up the fight is that I care,” he says,
stroking a goatee that has gone from pepper to salt in the past
10 years. “I like to say I give a damn.”  This is good for the community, and it ought to inspire
other depressed places that have become dumping grounds for the
refuse of the industrial age. It is possible to effect change by
giving a damn and making noise.  “I was very naive when I came back to Port Arthur. I
thought I would be here two or three years, get the job done and
then I’d be back to the Bay Area,” Kelley says wistfully, but
with pride. “I don’t see this work ending anytime soon.”  (Mike  Di Paola  writes on preservation and the environment
for Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column: Mike Di Paola at
 mdipaola@nyc.rr.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Manuela
Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 