-- 
Risk of Default in Foreign-Exchange Swaps High, Duffie Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 
2011-05-09T16:35:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/foreign-exchange-swap-default-risk-high-stanford-s-duffie-says.html
The risk of investor default in the
foreign-exchange swap and forward markets is large enough to
justify processing trades through clearinghouses, Stanford
University professor Darrell Duffie said.  The U.S. Treasury Department in April proposed exempting
the trades from most rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act, in
part because  default risk  “is relatively small.” The law
requires foreign-exchange swaps and forwards to be subject to
clearing and trading rules unless Treasury decides the
derivatives are different from other types of swaps.  Banks and investors would have been owed $925 billion as of
June 2010 if all foreign-exchange swaps and forwards had been
settled, before the effect of netting positions, Duffie wrote in
a comment submitted to the Treasury Department. That’s more than
the amount for equities or commodities swaps and about 60
percent of the number associated with credit-default swaps.  “There’s as much reason to clear this class as any other
class of derivative,” Duffie said in a telephone interview
today. The market, which consists of all the largest global
banks, for foreign-exchange forwards and swaps is $25.6 trillion
in notional value,  according  to the  Bank for International
Settlements .  “If those were to suddenly revalue, we don’t know whose
ability to pay is threatened,” Duffie said.  ‘Critical Gap’  The absence of publicly available data on the average life
of currency forwards and swaps is “a critical gap in our
knowledge,” wrote Duffie, who serves as a member of the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York’s financial advisory roundtable.  “Equity and commodity derivatives were not exempted from
the clearing and other requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act,”
Duffie wrote. “Additional analysis, if carefully conducted,
would likely reveal that such exemptions are inappropriate.”  Foreign-exchange contracts were the largest source of
trading revenue for banks’ derivatives and cash positions in
2010,  according  to the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. U.S. commercial banks recorded $9.1 billion in revenue
on trading of foreign-exchange derivatives.  Clearinghouses , which are capitalized by their members, are
meant to reduce systemic risk by absorbing and sharing
responsibility if a member defaults on its payment obligations.
They use daily margin calls to keep accounts current and provide
regulators with access to prices and positions.  Comment Period  A coalition of 20 firms, including  Deutsche Bank AG (DB) ,  Bank
of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and  UBS AG (UBS) , asked Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  to grant an exemption for swaps and forwards
in a November letter. The Treasury proposal to exclude the
trades from being routed through clearinghouses is now in its
30-day public comment period.  Assistant Treasury Secretary  Mary Miller , who helps oversee
financial markets, said April 29 that foreign-exchange swaps and
forwards, known as the FX market, present significantly less
counterparty credit risk than other derivatives and there are
procedures to mitigate risk.  “Central clearing could actually jeopardize the practices
in the FX swaps and forwards market,” Miller said.  Duffie said he is proposing to create clearing contracts
for foreign-exchange forwards and swaps that would be margined
at clearinghouses during the life of the trade and would then be
settled through the standard exchange of currencies like U.S.
dollars and Japanese yen.  He said he favors clearing and settlement systems for all
financial markets with substantial risk.  Renminbi Risk  The possible addition of Chinese renminbi to the global
market in coming years “is likely to add significantly to the
volume of FX markets and to total FX counterparty risk,” he
said. There’s also a high concentration of foreign-exchange
trades linking the U.S. dollar and the euro, a connection that’s
less evident in the credit-default swap market, he said.  Price swings are also greater in foreign-exchange swaps and
forwards than in credit swaps, Duffie wrote.  “Absent the disclosure of data allowing a proper
quantitative analysis, the total effective amount of
counterparty risk in the FX  derivatives market  could be of a
magnitude similar to that of the market for credit-default
swaps,” Duffie wrote. “Unless treated by regulation,
counterparty risk in the FX derivatives market could easily grow
substantially.”  Investors use credit-default swaps to hedge against losses
when corporate or government borrowers fail to pay their debts.
The contracts pay the buyer face value if a debtor fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. The
contracts were faulted for complicating efforts to resolve the
financial crisis.  In addition to his work with the New York Fed, Duffie
studies credit risk, asset pricing and the over-the-counter
derivatives market. He is the Stanford Graduate School of
Business’s Dean Witter Distinguished Professor of Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 