-- 
South African Foreign Currency, Gold Reserves Increase More Than Expected

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-05-09T07:37:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/foreign-currency-reserves-in-south-africa-advances-2-7-to-50-6-billion.html
South African reserves jumped 2.7
percent in April as the central bank boosted foreign currency
purchases and the dollar weakened, raising the value of euro,
pound and other holdings.  Gross gold and foreign currency reserves increased to $50.6
billion last month, the Pretoria-based  Reserve Bank  said on its
website today. Net reserves increased to $46 billion from $44.7
billion in March.  The dollar weakened against all 16 major currencies tracked
by Bloomberg in April, falling 4.3 percent against the euro and
3.1 percent against the rand. The Reserve Bank has pledged to
build reserves to help curb the rand and support the recovery in
 Africa ’s biggest economy.  “The increase in the gross reserves was primarily due to
valuation adjustments associated with the increase in the  U.S.
dollar  price of gold and the depreciation of the U.S. dollar
against other major currencies, as well as foreign exchange
purchases,” the central bank said.  Gold reserves, which account for about 12 percent of gross
reserves, increased by $421 million to $6.2 billion in April
from the previous month, the data showed. The spot price of gold
surged 9.2 percent last month, reaching an intraday high of
$1,569.32 an ounce during the month.  The rand has climbed 6.8 percent against the dollar since
the beginning of February, undermining the competitiveness of
exports and hurting manufacturers. The currency was at 6.6827
against the dollar as of 8:39 a.m. in Johannesburg from 6.6980
before the data was released.  “We have an overvalued currency driven by flows of
capital,” Trade Minister Rob Davies said on May 5. “The over-
valued currency is having a detrimental impact on a number of
industrial activities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  