-- 
Former SEC Counsel Rejoins Cleary Gottlieb Amid Madoff Scrutiny

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-05-09T17:27:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/former-sec-counsel-rejoins-cleary-gottlieb-amid-madoff-scrutiny.html
David Becker, who quit as Securities
and Exchange Commission general counsel before he was sued over
inherited profits from  Bernard Madoff ’s fraud, has rejoined the
law firm where he worked before taking the SEC post.  Becker, 63, returned to  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton
LLP  to focus on securities enforcement, corporate governance,
internal investigations and financial regulation, the firm said
today in a statement. Becker, who will be based in Washington,
left the SEC in February after two years in the position.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has faced scrutiny stemming from
a lawsuit filed by Irving H. Picard, the bankruptcy court
trustee unwinding Madoff’s business, a week after Becker
announced plans to leave the agency. The suit demands that
Becker and his brothers return $1.5 million in what Picard
called fictitious profits from liquidating their mother’s
account three years before the  Ponzi scheme  unraveled.  Congressional lawmakers and SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz have begun investigations into why Becker was permitted to
work on Madoff matters at the SEC even though he had personal
ties to the case. Becker, who returned to the SEC two months
after Madoff was arrested in December 2008, has said his
involvement was cleared by the agency’s ethics office. He has
said his departure was unrelated to the Picard lawsuit.  Becker had also served as SEC general counsel before his
previous stint at Cleary Gottlieb, which began in 2002. He
worked at the firm until 2009, when Schapiro tapped him to help
guide the agency through the pending financial regulatory
overhaul and cope with lawmakers’ criticism of perceived
missteps including its failure to spot Madoff’s fraud.  Madoff pleaded guilty in 2009 to charges related to his
decades-long Ponzi scheme and is serving a 150-year sentence in
federal prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  