-- 
France to Test 58 Reactors for Surviving Earthquakes, Not Terrorist Attack

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-05-09T11:40:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/france-to-test-58-reactors-for-surviving-earthquakes-not-terrorist-attack.html
Safety reviews at Electricite de
 France  SA’s 58 atomic reactors in France will cover their
vulnerability to earthquakes and floods and exclude terrorist
attacks, the nation’s atomic regulator said.  “We don’t think there could be a serious study,” of risks
caused by terrorism nor could it be done transparently, the head
of the Autorite de Surete Nucleaire, Andre-Claude Lacoste, said
at a briefing in Paris today. “This will be discussed at the
end of the week in Brussels. It’s not a dogmatic position.”  Prime Minister Francois Fillon had asked the regulator to
evaluate whether French plants can withstand earthquakes,
floods, power outages and cooling-system failures. The European
Union is also planning to carry out “stress tests” in the
second half of the year in response to the Japanese atomic
accident caused by a March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  The EU aims to reveal the criteria for tests on its 143
atomic plants on May 12, the same day that national regulators
in Europe are due to give their approval to the plans, European
Energy Commissioner Guenther Oettinger has said.  Lacoste said France’s criteria may differ from the EU’s.
“There is no assurance of a total convergence” between what
France announced today and what the EU will decide later this
week. He said the French have based their decisions “as much as
possible” on what is known now about the European process and
that of other countries.  Testing 58 Reactors  Nuclear power stations owned by companies including state-
owned EDF and  Germany ’s  RWE AG (RWE)  produce about a third of the
electricity in the EU, which wants to draw up common safety
criteria after the Japanese crisis triggered public protests in
Europe against atomic power.  The French watchdog is preparing the stress tests, which
also will exclude fuel-transport mishaps, on EDF’s 58 existing
reactors that produce more than 75 percent of the nation’s
electricity as well as one being built at Flamanville in
Normandy. Lacoste has raised the possibility of a construction
halt at Flamanville in the coming months if lessons learned from
Fukushima require changes to improve safety.  “We will take any measures that are necessary,” he said
when asked whether any EDF reactors could be shut down as a
consequence of safety issues or whether the operator may be
obliged to build containment facilities over spent fuel pools at
plants.  Fukushima was a “massive event” that is being taken more
seriously in  Europe  than in  Russia  and the U.S., he said.
“There is clearly a before Fukushima and an after Fukushima.”  About 15 nuclear facilities that are related to reactors
also will be reviewed, including waste storage and treatment
plants, the ASN said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  