-- 
Peru Dollar Bonds Gain to 1-Month High as Fujimori Rises in Election Poll

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 
2011-05-09T20:48:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/fujimori-rises-in-peru-presidential-poll-ahead-of-run-off-vote.html
Peru ’s dollar bonds rose, pushing down
the average yield gap over  U.S. debt  to a one-month low, after a
poll showed support for Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori increased
as she and former army officer Ollanta Humala remained locked in
a virtual tie before June’s run-off presidential election.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peru government
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 185 at 4:44 p.m. New York time, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s the lowest since April 13.  Peru’s benchmark stock index posted its biggest gain in two
years last week, and the nation’s currency and bonds rose, after
polls showed support declining for Humala, who topped the field
in the first round of elections April 10. Humala’s campaign
platform includes increasing state control of the country’s gas
reserves and revising contracts with foreign investors and
trading partners.  “People are extrapolating from the trend,” Joe Kogan,
head of emerging markets strategy at Scotia Capital Markets
Inc., said in an interview from  New York . “The chance is still
50-50 for a Keiko win, so things can still go either way, but
for now, that trend is what has helped markets recover.”  Fujimori had 41 percent support in the most recent survey
by Ipsos Apoyo, a Lima-based research company, compared with 38
percent a week earlier. Humala, leader of Peru’s Nationalist
Party and a one-time ally of Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez,
had 39 percent in the survey, unchanged from the previous week.
The poll was published yesterday by America Television.  ‘Least Worst Option’  “Support for Keiko Fujimori is rising because the middle
classes see a risk of Ollanta Humala turning into a Chavez,”
said Alfredo Torres, director of Ipsos Apoyo, in an e-mail,
referring to Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez . “They are going
for the least worst option.”  The Lima General Index jumped 11 percent last week, the
steepest weekly increase since May 2009, and the sol
strengthened the most since January 2010, as investors bet
Fujimori will win the presidency and maintain policies behind
 Latin America ’s fastest-growing major economy of the last five
years.  The Lima index erased earlier gains today and dropped 0.8
percent to 21,598.84. The sol rose for a fourth day,
strengthening 0.2 percent to 2.7925 per dollar.  Fujimori is the eldest daughter of former President  Alberto Fujimori , who is serving a 25-year prison sentence for directing
a death squad while president from 1990-2000. She backs policies
of current President  Alan Garcia  that favor increased foreign
investment and privatization.  ‘Volatile’  “The Peruvian electorate is volatile, with a relatively
small portion of both candidates’ support expressing total
conviction of their voting preferences,” Barclays Capital
economists including Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti 
wrote in a report today. “Therefore, even if, according to the
polls, Mrs. Fujimori seems to be the favorite, we believe the
results are still too close to call.”  According to the Ipsos Apoyo poll, 20 percent of those
surveyed are either undecided or would cast a blank vote. Ipsos
Apoyo said 38 percent of those surveyed said they will never
vote for Humala and 34 percent would never vote for Fujimori.  Humala, a former army lieutenant colonel, seems as
authoritarian as Chavez, according to 47 percent of those
surveyed, the poll shows.  America Television didn’t say how many people Ipsos Apoyo
interviewed and didn’t provide the dates of the poll or its
margin of error.  According to a separate poll published yesterday by Datum
Internacional, Humala had 40 percent support compared with 42
percent in a poll published April 29. Fujimori had 39 percent,
down from 40 percent, according to Datum’s survey of 5,010
people, which was published by Lima-based television station
Frecuencia Latina and didn’t provide a margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  