-- 
Cap Deterring Reliance, PetroChina: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n
-- 
2011-05-12T04:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gas-price-cap-deterring-reliance-petrochina-chart-of-the-day.html
(Corrects unit of measurement in chart for story published
May 10.)  China and  India , which consume about
a quarter of the world’s energy, may be forced to import more
gas as domestic price caps deter companies including PetroChina
Co. and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  from investing in production.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the government-mandated selling
price of natural gas produced in India and China is about 68
percent lower than spot liquefied natural gas and more than 50
percent below U.K. benchmark prices, according to data from
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and Bloomberg News. The chart also
shows gas prices in oil-equivalent terms are 77 percent below
crude costs.  “It is simply uneconomic to develop new gas fields in
deepwater off India’s east coast,” said  Neil Beveridge , a Hong
Kong-based analyst for Bernstein. “PetroChina has enormous
reserves of gas but prices have to rise to encourage production
from some of the more marginal fields.”  Mumbai-based Reliance’s gas production of 50 million cubic
meters a day is below a targeted 80 million cubic meters,
according to Bernstein. All gas prices in future must be market-
determined and shouldn’t be “underpriced,” Reliance Chairman
 Mukesh Ambani  said, according to the Economic Times.  India’s gas production slumped 11 percent in March compared
with a year earlier, Bernstein said. The country may consume
more than 250 million cubic meters a day by 2015. Reliance
“doesn’t believe it’s worth its while to invest additional
capital in drilling wells when the price at the beach remains at
$4.20 per thousand cubic feet,” Bernstein said. There has only
been only one major deepwater development in India since 2000
even after more than 50 findings, Bernstein said.  China  plans to almost double the use of the fuel to 230
billion cubic meters in 2015, equivalent to 630 million cubic
meters a day, as it seeks to cut its dependence on oil and coal,
according to China National Petroleum Corp., PetroChina’s parent
company, on Jan. 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in Singapore at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  