-- 
Gasoline Gains Most in 21 Months on Flooding, Refinery Problems

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-05-09T20:32:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gasoline-futures-rise-on-lower-supplies-ahead-of-driving-season.html
Gasoline advanced the most since July
2009 on speculation that fuel production and distribution will
be disrupted by  Mississippi River  flooding and refinery unit
shutdowns from the Midwest to the Gulf Coast.  Futures jumped 6.1 percent as Chevron had a crude unit fire
in its Mississippi refinery and Exxon Mobil Corp. had a unit
failure in its Illinois plant. The Mississippi River, the
largest U.S. river system, is forecast to crest today in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , just below its 74-year-old record as a bulge
of water moves south toward the riverside refineries in
 Louisiana .  “There’s strength in the spot market, there was a laundry
list of refinery issues over the weekend, and there’s just no
refinery selling on the Gulf Coast,” said Tom Knight, vice
president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana,  Texas . “There may be concerns about disruptions of
incoming crude, concerns about flooding.”  Gasoline for June delivery rose 18.83 cents to settle at
$3.2784 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
first gain in six days and follows a loss of 11 percent last
week. Gasoline was the biggest gainer on the Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index.  Mississippi Flooding  Flooding may disrupt fuel production from plants along the
river from  New Orleans  to Baton Rouge. That area contains 11
refineries with a combined capacity of 2.5 million barrels a
day, or 13 percent of U.S. fuel output, said  Andy Lipow ,
president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  “There is potential impact to refinery supplies due to
Mississippi River flooding, so gasoline is biased to the
upside,” Lipow said. “Supplies, especially in the Northeast,
are quite tight.”  Futures were supported by higher spot prices. Regular
gasoline in  Chicago  traded at a 21-cent premium to futures,
compared with a 10-cent premium on May 6, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gulf Coast  gasoline rose 6.25 cents to
trade at a 3-cent premium.  “There were spot shortages at some terminals,” said Lewis Adam, president of ADMO Energy LLC, a supply consultant in
 Kansas City .  Exxon shut a fuel terminal in Memphis April 29 in advance
of flooding, Kevin Allexon, a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “Severe weather” forced Valero Energy Corp. to cut off
sales to unbranded spot customers in Paducah, Kentucky, Bill Day, a spokesman for Valero in San Antonio, said. “We will meet
obligations to our branded customers,” he said.  Supply Drop  Futures also surged on speculation prices fell too far last
week with supplies at a 22-month low before the summer driving
season. Gasoline stockpiles dropped 11 consecutive weeks from
Feb. 11 to April 29, according to Energy Department data, and
shed 36.6 million barrels. Refiners operated at 82.8 percent of
capacity, 6.8 percentage points below a year earlier.  “Last week’s drop was a little overdone,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Until we see signs that refineries are
going to start ramping up production for the summer, gasoline
will have a bit of a bid in it.”  The premium of June futures over July increased to 11.4
cents a gallon from 9.45 cents on May 6, the widest
backwardation for the contracts nearest to expiration since Aug.
31, 2009. Supplies in Padd 1 are the lowest since October 2008,
according to Energy Department data. The region includes  New
York  Harbor, the delivery point of the Nymex gasoline contract.  Supply Survey  Supplies of the motor fuel probably fell 750,000 barrels
last week to 203.9 million barrels, the lowest level since June
2009, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts in a
survey by Bloomberg News. Supply disruptions that occurred after
May 6 would not be reflected in department’s report, to be
released on May 11.  Gasoline use typically climbs in mid-year when summer
vacations boost consumption. The peak demand period starts after
the Memorial Day holiday in late May and ends on Labor Day in
early September. The holidays fall on May 30 and Sept. 5 this
year.  The premium of gasoline over crude oil on Nymex gained
$2.54 to $35.14 a barrel. That’s the largest crack spread for
the contract nearest to expiration since May 2007.  “It’s the supply issues, ahead of the Memorial Day
weekend,” said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount
Options Inc. in New York. “People are thinking there could be
supply issues going into the summer.”  Regular retail gasoline fell 0.6 cent to $3.96 a gallon
yesterday, AAA said on its website.  Volume for gasoline futures was 173,895 contracts in
electronic trading as of 3:06 p.m., 45 percent above the average
over the past three months. Heating oil volume was 128,481 lots,
4.5 percent above the average.  Heating oil for June delivery rose 11.61 cents, or 4.1
percent, to settle at $2.9618 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in  Dallas  at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  