-- 
Gay Men Diagnosed With Cancer at Higher Rates, Researchers Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-05-09T13:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gay-men-diagnosed-with-cancer-at-higher-rates-researchers-say.html
Gay men get cancer almost twice as
often as heterosexual men, and lesbian and bisexual women who
are cancer survivors reported being less healthy than
heterosexual women who had the disease.  The greater prevalence of cancer among gay men may be
caused by an excess risk of anal cancer, and may also reflect
the higher rate of HIV infection, which is linked to certain
tumors, according to the report in the journal  Cancer .  The results show the greatest need for intervention is in
prevention and detection in gay men, according to the study
authors. In addition, lesbian and bisexual cancer survivors
should be targeted to improve their health outcomes.  “We want to really inform physicians who treat gay,
lesbian and bisexual populations to focus on cancer screening,”
said the study’s lead author,  Ulrike Boehmer , an associate
professor at Boston University’s School for  Public Health , in a
telephone interview.  Merck & Co.’s Gardasil vaccine, approved in 2006 for the
human papillomavirus that causes cervical cancer in women, also
was cleared in December to prevent anal cancer and precancerous
lesions.  California Data  The study used data from the  California Health Interview
Survey  from 2001, 2003, and 2005. A total of 7,252 women and
3,690 men reported cancer diagnoses as adults.  Of the 51,000 men surveyed, 5 percent of straight men were
diagnosed with cancer, compared with 8.3 percent of gay men. The
rates didn’t differ significantly by sexual orientation among
the 71,000 women included in the survey.  Among the  female cancer survivors , 73 percent of
heterosexual women reported excellent, very good, or good
health. In lesbian women, that number was 66 percent, and in
bisexual women, 60 percent, according to the study.  The lesbian and bisexual women may be reporting worse
outcomes because they have less family support, Boehmer said.
The women also generally report worse health than heterosexual
peers in general, she said. There are also differences in
smoking rates and use of alcohol between heterosexual and
homosexual populations, she said.  “This is of course a particular area of study because we
don’t know what it means,” Boehmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 