-- 
Greek Bonds Lead European Slide, CDS Rise to Record, After S&P Downgrade

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 
2011-05-09T15:36:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/german-10-year-bund-yields-fall-to-seven-week-low-before-confidence-data.html
Greek bonds dropped, leading declines
by the securities of  Europe ’s most indebted nations, as the
country’s credit rating was cut by  Standard & Poor’s .  The losses pushed the spread investors demand to hold the
securities instead of similar-maturity German bunds to the most
in almost two weeks, while the cost to insure Greek debt climbed
to a record. Two-year yields in Portugal and Ireland climbed to
all-time highs. Greece needs “a further adjustment program,”
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said after an
unscheduled meeting of finance ministers last weekend. Bunds
rose on demand for the safest assets as data showed European
investor confidence fell more than economists predicted.  “Greek yields are still too low,” said  Michael Markovic ,
a senior fixed-income strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in
Zurich. “For us, the sell-off in Greek bonds since the middle
of April has been more than justified.”  The yield on the security climbed 20 basis points to 15.71
percent as of 4:15 p.m. in  London . The spread over German bunds
widened 28 basis points to 1,261 basis points, the most since
April 27 based on closing Bloomberg generic prices. The two-year
note yield jumped 25 basis points to 25.58 percent.  Credit-default swaps on Greek debt rose 30 basis points to
a record 1,371, according to CMA. Swaps on Ireland reached an
all-time high of 681 basis points, and contracts on Portugal
also rose.  Default Bets  Greek bonds have lost investors 11.5 percent this year,
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies show, as speculation mounts that
the country will be the first euro-area nation to restructure
its debt. Bonds of  Portugal , the third country to seek aid after
Greece and Ireland, have lost 14.9 percent. Irish securities
returned negative 6.5 percent, while German  government bonds 
handed investors a loss of 1.2 percent.  Investors are increasing bets on a Greek default as the
country struggles with a contracting economy, higher borrowing
costs and falling tax revenue, offsetting spending cuts required
in return for last year’s 110 billion-euro rescue. Officials in
 Athens  denied speculation over the weekend that Greece was
headed out of the euro or into default. Spiegel magazine
reported that Greece was considering a return to the drachma.  ‘A Lot of Trouble’  “Greece for sure can cause a lot of trouble to the rest of
Europe,” analysts led by  Vincent Chaigneau , head of rate
strategy at Societe Generale SA in London, wrote in an e-mailed
note to clients today.  German 10-year bonds rose for a third day, pushing the
yield on the securities back below that on similar-maturity U.S.
Treasuries. They yielded three basis points less than their
American counterparts after exceeding them last week for the
first time since 2009.  An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
fell to 10.9 this month from 14.2, Limburg, Germany-based  Sentix 
said today. The median prediction of eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg was for a decline to 13.8.  The German 10-year yield fell eight basis points to 3.09
percent, adding to last week’s seven-basis-point decline.  The securities climbed last week as the  European Central
Bank  left the refinancing rate at 1.25 percent, with its
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  saying the central bank will
monitor inflation risks “very closely.”  A Greek debt restructuring would result in damage rather
than assistance, the senior finance spokesman for German
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party said.  German Intentions  Germany may consider more help for  Greece  under stringent
conditions to avoid a restructuring, which would risk an “even
bigger problem than we have already,” Michael Meister, the
parliamentary finance spokesman for Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , said in an interview in Berlin today.  “I don’t expect any strong rebound in peripheral bonds
until policy makers spell out exactly what they plan to do,”
said  Charles Diebel , head of market strategy at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in London. “Demand for core bonds such as
German bunds at the expense of peripheral debt will remain a key
theme in the market, at least in the near term.”  Ireland’s two-year yield climbed 100 basis points to 12.61
percent, the most since at least November 2003, when Bloomberg
started collecting the data. The Portuguese two-year yield
increased 44 basis points to 12.08 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net  