-- 
German Next-Year Power Gains as Energy Commodity Prices Rebound

-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 
2011-05-09T16:28:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/german-day-ahead-electricity-advances-to-highest-price-this-year.html
German electricity for delivery next
year rose for the first day in five after energy commodities
recovered from last week’s slump, signaling higher costs for
power stations in  Europe ’s biggest market.  Baseload power for 2012 climbed 45 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to 58.85 euros ($84.23), according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg as of 5:25 p.m. Berlin time. Baseload is delivered
around the clock.  The European benchmark contract is rebounding after
tracking oil and coal prices lower in last week’s commodity
price plunge. In April it climbed to its highest price since
June 2009 after  Germany  shut reactors for a safety review
following the nuclear disaster in  Japan . The contract closed as
high as 60.55 euros on April 4.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  met party and parliamentary
chiefs today to discuss the timeline of planned  energy policy 
and the scope of necessary laws, the government said today in an
e-mailed statement. The participants may meet again at the end
of May after a commission which is advising the government
concludes its work. Merkel has said she plans to accelerate the
country’s exit from nuclear power.  Hard coal for next-year delivery to Amsterdam, Rotterdam or
Antwerp climbed for the first day in four. The contract gained
1.2 percent to $129.50 a metric ton. The fuel accounted for
about a fifth of Germany’s power last year. Germany also
produces electricity from lignite, or brown coal, natural gas,
wind and solar plants.  Baseload power for tomorrow reached as much as 63.75 euros
(91.90) a megawatt-hour today, according to broker data on
Bloomberg. That compares with a price for today of 60.57 euros
in an auction held yesterday on the Epex Spot SE exchange in
Paris. Baseload is delivered around the clock.  Bloomberg tracks power prices from brokers including  GFI
Group Inc. (GFIG) , ICAP Plc, Spectron Group Ltd., Tradition Financial
Services and Tullet Prebon Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  