-- 
Getty Trust Hires Art Institute of Chicago’s Cuno as President

-- B y   S t e p h e n   W e s t
-- 
2011-05-09T20:04:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/getty-trust-hires-cuno-of-chicago-s-art-institute-harvard-as-president.html
The J. Paul Getty Trust, the world’s
richest art institution, hired James Cuno as president,
overseeing the  Getty Museum  in  Los Angeles  as well as grant-
making, scholarly and conservation institutes.  Cuno, 60, has been director of the Art Institute of  Chicago 
since 2004. He’ll step down in June and start his new job as
Getty’s president and chief executive officer on Aug. 1, the
Getty Trust said in a statement.  For a second time he fills a position previously held by
James Wood, who died last June. Wood joined the Getty Trust in
2006, also from the Art Institute of Chicago.  Before his stint in Chicago, Cuno was director of the
Courtauld Institute of Art in  London  and ran art museums at
 Harvard University , Dartmouth College and the University of
California at Los Angeles. He received his doctorate in art
history at Harvard and taught there from 1991 to 2003.  “The Getty needs a leader with an understanding of all
aspects of the visual arts,”  Mark Siegel , chairman of the
Getty’s board of trustees, said in the statement. “The Getty
also needs an experienced executive who has the managerial and
strategic skills needed to lead a complex organization.”  Getty Trust  The Getty Trust, with an endowment valued at $5.3 billion
at the end of December, hired Russell Reynolds Associates Inc.
last year to conduct a search for Wood’s replacement.  In the interim, Deborah Marrow, director of the grant-
making Getty Foundation, has served as the trust’s acting
president.  Cuno’s appointment fills one of two key vacancies at the
Getty. The museum has been without a permanent director since
the sudden resignation of Michael Brand in January 2010. One of
Cuno’s first and most important tasks will be to find a new
director of the museum.  To contact the writer of this story:
Stephen West in  San Francisco  at 
 smwest@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 