-- 
GIC Says Investment Outlook for Next 30 Years ‘Less Benign’

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-05-09T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gic-says-investment-outlook-for-next-30-years-less-benign-.html
Government of  Singapore  Investment
Corp. expects the investment outlook in the next 30 years to
become more challenging, the sovereign wealth fund's Chairman
Lee Kuan Yew said.   The manager of more than $100 billion of reserves had 
average annual returns similar to a 10.2 percent rise in
equities since its 1981 inception as its investments, which 
are long term and include assets such as real estate, had “less 
risk” than stocks, said Lee, the nation's first prime minister
who now holds the title of minister mentor. GIC will capitalize
on its global reach, multiasset class and long-term perspective
to produce good returns, he said.  “The next 30 years look challenging,” Lee said at a
speech in Singapore yesterday to mark the fund’s 30th
anniversary. “The investment outlook could be less benign.”  The fund, the biggest investor in companies including
Citigroup Inc. and UBS AG, seeks to boost assets to tackle
future crises and meet the country’s long-term spending needs.
GIC is  ranked  the world’s eighth-largest state investment
company by Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.  “It will take time to work through the full consequences of
the crisis such as the huge amounts of debt that developed
countries have taken on,” said Lee, 87. “Furthermore, the
turmoil in the Middle East has elevated geopolitical risks.”  GIC must be prepared to make “unconventional” decisions
to bolster returns, Lee said.  “As GIC grows larger and more established, the impetus to
follow conventional practices will grow,” he said. “GIC must
develop the capacity and courage to make the right decisions,
thinking in depth and foresight for what works best.”  ‘Calculated Risks’  GIC has been willing to adopt new strategies and take
“calculated risks” to achieve good returns, Lee said. It was
an early investor in real estate and emerging markets such as
 Southeast Asia  and  China , he said. To sustain its policy of
building reserves, GIC invests with a long-term view, Lee said.  “We must expect more complex growth and inflation
prospects and more complicated relationships and competition
between countries,” he said. “The rise of emerging economies
will not only change geopolitical dynamics, but will also put
immense pressure on natural resources and the environment.”  The Singapore fund, established in 1981, said in September
annual returns in the past 20 years to March 31, 2010, averaged
7.1 percent in U.S. dollar terms, compared with 5.7 percent in
the previous fiscal year. The rate of return in excess of global
inflation rose to 3.8 percent from 2.6 percent. GIC didn’t give
the value of its assets or how much they rose or fell.  ‘New Norm’  Singapore will need to ensure it has sufficient reserves as
global uncertainties will be the “new norm” in the next
decade, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, who’s the fund’s deputy
chairman and also Lee’s oldest son, said in a speech yesterday.  Singapore will need to buffer its economy “against
volatility and storms by accumulating adequate reserves,” he
said. Singapore’s “overriding priority” is to improve the life
of its citizens amid a more volatile global economy, he said,
following the ruling party’s biggest electoral battle since
independence in 1965. The government will need to raise incomes
across the board, said the premier, who won by a record-low 60.1
percent margin in the May 7 elections.  While major economies are recovering, there are “simmering
risks,” including concerns that the European sovereign debt
crisis could spread to bigger countries, he said. Tony Tan,
GIC’s other deputy chairman, said yesterday that investors may
face another major financial and economic crisis if U.S. bonds
lose their AAA credit rating “in a disorderly manner.”  Singapore has maintained confidence in the local currency
and the banking system with the “backing of much larger amounts
in the reserves,” the prime minister said.  Singapore’s reserves grew 19 percent to $242.5 billion as
of April from a year earlier, according to the central bank.  GIC said last year it will continue to increase its
investments in higher-growth emerging economies, especially in
 Asia , as expansion in developed nations slows. GIC manages
$247.5 billion, based on the estimates by the  Sovereign Wealth
Fund Institute .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  