-- 
Gingrich Signals He Plans to Enter Race for Republican Presidential Nod

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 
2011-05-09T20:31:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gingrich-to-announce-run-for-republican-presidential-nomination-on-may-11.html
Former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  signaled that he will seek the Republican nomination
for president, saying he will “talk about my run” in two days.  “I have been humbled by all the encouragement you have
given me to run,” Gingrich said in a posting on his  Facebook
page  today. “Thank you for your support.” He said he will
appear on the Fox News cable television channel May 11 “to talk
about my run for president of the  United States .”  He will also officially announce his candidacy that same
day on the Facebook and Twitter social-network sites, spokesman
Rick Tyler said in an e-mail.  Gingrich, 67, led Republicans to win the majority in the
House in 1994, ending the party’s 40 years as the minority in
the chamber. He left Congress four years later.  In recent months he has visited  Iowa , site of the first
presidential nominating caucuses early next year, and  New
Hampshire , site of 2012’s first primary. Gingrich will travel to
Iowa next week, Tyler said.  Gingrich, of  Georgia , set up a  website  on March 3 to accept
donations for a possible presidential run.  Slow Start  The race for the Republican nomination to take on President
 Barack Obama  has gotten off to a slow start, compared with the
races in both parties in 2007-2008. Gingrich would be the first
among the better-known prospects to officially commit to a
presidential run, and no Republican has emerged as a clear
frontrunner in polls.  Gingrich was one of six of his party’s potential candidate
polling in double digits among Republican voters in a CNN  survey 
taken April 29-May 1. He trailed former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , real-estate developer  Donald Trump , former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, and 2008 vice-presidential
nominee Sarah Palin, and was tied with Representative Ron Paul
of  Texas  at 10 percent.  A former college professor, Gingrich twice ran
unsuccessfully for the House before winning his first term in
1978.  He led a Republican effort against then-House Speaker Jim
Wright, a Texas Democrat, for ethical violations. Wright
resigned in May 1989, decrying “mindless cannibalism” among
lawmakers.  Earlier that year House Republicans had elected Gingrich
minority whip, succeeding  Dick Cheney , a Wyoming Republican who
gave up his House seat to serve as defense secretary under
President George H.W. Bush.  Ethics Sanction  Elected speaker in January 1995 after the new Republican
majority took office, he is the only lawmaker holding that post
to be officially sanctioned over ethical questions. He was
reprimanded in 1997 by the House and paid $300,000 to settle
claims that he used tax-exempt organizations for political
purposes and gave misleading statements during an investigation.  Stalemates over policy that pitted Gingrich and other
congressional Republicans against Democratic President  Bill Clinton  resulted in government shutdowns in 1995 and 1996, an
issue similar to current budget battles.  A  CNN-USA Today poll  in November 1995 showed 49 percent of
respondents blaming Republican leaders in Congress for the
shutdown, compared with 26 percent who blamed Clinton.  Gingrich’s public image also suffered a blow that same
month when he complained about his treatment on Air Force One
while traveling with Clinton’s entourage to the funeral for
slain Israel Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin. The New York Daily
News ran a front-page cartoon of Gingrich under the headline,
“Cry Baby.”  Impeachment Case  Gingrich championed the impeachment by the House of Clinton
over the president’s relationship with a White House intern. The
case ended with the Senate failing to convict Clinton of the
charges against him in February 1999. It later was disclosed
that Gingrich was having an extramarital affair with the woman
who became his third wife while promoting the proceedings
against Clinton.  He announced his resignation from Congress in November 1998
after the House Republicans lost seats for the second-straight
election, though kept their majority.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 