-- 
Glencore Loan Lures Banks Vying for Slice of Acquisition Deals

-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s
-- 
2011-05-09T12:39:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/glencore-loan-lures-banks-vying-for-bigger-fees-underwriting-acquisitions.html
Glencore International AG became the
most sought-after client in the European loan market after it
raised $11.9 billion from banks seeking lucrative business
underwriting acquisitions from the seller of the biggest initial
public offering this year.  The world’s largest commodity trader said it increased a
loan refinancing by 32 percent after receiving “strong demand”
from 97 banks, the largest lending group of any European deal
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  BNP Paribas (BNP) 
SA, Credit Agricole CIB, Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and
Rabobank International were joined by 77 additional lenders
during the syndication which closed last week.  “Banks will lend to Glencore and commodity companies
cheaply as ‘relationship deals,’ in the hope of developing other
forms of business with them,” Stephen Mostyn-Williams, founder
of London-based consulting firm smwlaw, said in an interview.  Arranging acquisition debt or advising on mergers are a
boon for banks as the purpose of most loans by European
companies this year has been to cut the interest margins
and fees on existing credit lines. Glencore Chief Executive
Officer Ivan Glasenberg said he will have “the necessary
powder” to snap up rivals after the IPO this month raises as
much as $11 billion.  Ancillary Business  Glencore, which trades commodities such as coal, oil and
metals, has trading units across 40 countries, as well as
industrial operations and stakes in listed mining companies.
Glasenberg said last month he sees “good value” in combining
the company with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter of coal used
by power stations, in which it holds a 34 percent stake.  “There are an awful lot of banks who are taking a risk
participating in these syndicated facilities, because many of
them will not be able to generate the revenue they require
through winning ancillary business,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, a
credit analyst at  Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . in London.
“A syndicate of 100 banks is very large, and even a company
like Glencore with operations all over the globe is unlikely to
be able to provide enough additional business except for those
in the ‘bulge bracket.’”  Glencore agreed to pay interest of 110 basis points more
than the London interbank offered rate for new credit lines that
expire in 364 days, with the interest margin rising to 160 basis
points if the company decides to convert the revolving credit
into a  term loan , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The Baar, Switzerland-based company is rated BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s  and Baa2 by Moody’s Investors Service.  Mercuria, Stemcor  Fellow traders Mercuria Energy Trading SA and Stemcor
Holdings Ltd. also refinanced loans on more favorable terms to
take advantage of rising prices for raw materials. S&P’s GSCI
Total Return Index of 24 commodities has beaten bonds, stocks
and the dollar every month since December, the longest run in at
least 14 years.  Refinancings account for more than 82 percent of loans to
European borrowers this year, according to Bloomberg data.
Facilities used to replace credit lines to BBB borrowers in
 Europe  this year offer an average 77 basis-points margin over
benchmark rates on drawn funds. Banks earn a commitment fee of a
third of that, about 25 basis points, because the credit lines
typically remain undrawn. They can get a fee of 100 basis points
on a large-scale acquisition such as InBev NV’s $45 billion loan
to buy Anheuser-Busch Cos., the data show.  Mercuria, the Geneva-based oil trader which generated sales
of $50 billion last year, is seeking a $1.25 billion loan to
refinance debt. The company agreed to pay 235 basis points more
than Libor to draw three-year funds under the facility,
Bloomberg data show.  IPO Ends Secrecy  London-based steel trader  Stemcor  signed a $1 billion
multicurrency revolving  credit line  to refinance existing credit
deals. The transaction was increased from $650 million “due to
significant oversubscription” from 53 lenders, the company said
in a statement May 6.  The IPO by Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich
& Co. after management bought out former fugitive U.S. financier
Marc Rich in 1994, would end more than three decades of being a
closely-held partnership. The shares will be offered at 480
pence ($7.87) to 580 pence each. The mid-point of the range
indicates a market value of $61 billion.  Money managers are making near-record bets on higher
commodity prices, with funds holding 57 percent more futures and
options in 18 commodities by April 26 than a year earlier,
according to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
Investors held a record $412 billion of raw-material assets by
the end of March, almost 50 percent more than a year earlier,
 Barclays Capital  estimates.  “Lending to commodity businesses is currently seen as
something of a safe-haven in an uncertain world,” Timothy Polglase, global head of leveraged finance at Allen & Overy LLP
in  London . “Commodities often represent non-discretionary,
repeat, expenditure, so demand is always going to be there. But
they’ve also got a growth story with potentially huge demand
from the BRIC countries as  living standards  in those countries
improve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 