-- 
MGM China Said to Gauge Demand for $1.5 Billion Stock Sale

-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-09T07:04:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/mgm-china-said-to-seek-up-to-1-5-billion-in-hong-kong-ipo-of-macau-casino.html
MGM China Holdings Ltd., the casino
joint venture between  MGM Resorts International (MGM)  and Pansy Ho,
may raise as much as $1.5 billion in its Hong Kong initial
public offering, two people with knowledge of the matter said.  The Macau casino operator began gauging investors’
demand today and aims to start trading on June 3, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the information
is private. Stock worth $1 billion to $1.5 billion may be
offered in the sale, they said.  MGM China is selling shares as rivals including  Wynn
Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  and  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  said first-quarter
revenue from Macau, the only place in China where casinos are
legal, surged. Gambling revenue in the former Portuguese colony
soared 58 percent last year to 188.3 billion patacas ($23.5
billion), about four times that of the  Las Vegas Strip .  “It’s very good timing for MGM to sell stock with Macau
casinos posting record profits,” said Kenny Tang, Hong Kong-
based executive director of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd.,
“Demand still outstrips supply in Macau’s gambling market and
people expect revenue to climb further.”  MGM China’s management will start meeting potential
investors on May 17 to market the offering, the people with
knowledge of the matter said. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch unit,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , and Morgan Stanley are
managing the sale. Sidney Luk, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman
for MGM China, declined to comment.  The company had planned to raise about $800 million,
according to two people with knowledge of the matter in April.  Gaming Monopoly  Pansy Ho ’s father, billionaire  Stanley Ho , held a
gambling monopoly in Macau for four decades before the entry
of foreign casino operators starting from 2002. Casino
revenue in Macau climbed 43 percent to 79 billion patacas
in the first four months of this year, according to data from
the city’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau.  Macau gambling revenue may gain by more than 25 percent
in 2011, cementing the city’s position as the world’s biggest
gambling hub by sales, Standard & Poor’s credit analyst Joe
Poon said in a report.  MGM Resorts, founded by Kirk Kerkorian, would gain
control of MGM China by acquiring shares from Pansy Ho, the
U.S. company said in a statement on April 13. Pansy Ho would
sell 1 percent of MGM China Holdings Ltd. to Kerkorian’s
company, lifting his stake in the venture to 51 percent,
according to the release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  