-- 
Gold Traders Are Only Winners Amid 18% Inflation: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-05-09T19:27:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gold-trade-is-only-winner-in-inflation-attack-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Nguyen Van Giau sighs audibly and
shifts in his chair when I ask him the dreaded question: Is
 Vietnam  losing its inflation battle?  It’s one the country’s central bank governor can barely go
an hour without fielding these days. Such is life in a nation
where consumer prices climbed almost 18 percent in April from a
year earlier.  Giau’s assurances that he’s committed to taming inflation
aren’t resonating with Vietnam’s 87 million people. The steady
erosion of the currency has driven locals to hoard gold as the
dollar grows shaky. Capital controls don’t stop households from
swapping growing piles of dong for hard assets.  Vietnam’s $102 billion economy is just one example of an
epic inflation fight that Asia might lose if central banks don’t
act more aggressively. Rather than yanking away the proverbial
punchbowl, they are keeping the monetary taps open for too long
and imperiling  Asia ’s outlook. Asia needs less talking about
these risks, and more doing.  The story last week was of Asia going on the defensive.
 Interest rates  went up in  India ,  Malaysia , the  Philippines  and
Vietnam and policy makers pledged additional moves should events
warrant them. Well, they do and timidity is setting Asia up for
an inevitable bust after the impressive boom of recent years.  Part of the problem is that Asia has internalized the
 Federal Reserve ’s core inflation philosophy. From Hanoi to
Beijing, policy makers have been reluctant to tighten credit on
the assumption that inflation is being unduly driven by a short-
term rise in food and energy costs, while other prices are
stable.  Home Grown  There are now indications that inflation isn’t just being
imported, but increasingly generated domestically. Strong
domestic demand is placing increased pressure on prices that
won’t go away even if food and energy inflation moderates.  That puts the onus on central banks to assume the role of
party pooper. Granted, it’s an incredibly difficult balancing
act. Clamp down too much on credit, and officials might derail
Asia’s rapid growth and rising living standards. Also, each rate
increase risks courting even more hot money. It’s a supreme
paradox of modern central banking: the more you act to pull
liquidity out of the domestic banking system, the greater the
influx of cash from overseas.  Poverty is another complication. If the  Bank of Korea 
tightens the vise too much, it won’t toss millions into
destitution. The same can’t be said of monetary policy in India,
 Indonesia  or the Philippines. No central banker wants to be
blamed for torpedoing their economy.  What Independence?  Central-bank independence has become somewhat of a misnomer
in Asia since the death of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in
2008. As markets plunged and growth shriveled, bankers slashed
rates and worked closely with government officials. The key
isn’t to repeat  Japan ’s mistake of never figuring out how to
restore monetary normalcy.  Fears of strangling growth have officials in Jakarta,
 Manila  and  New Delhi  taking smaller steps than inflation risks
require. What is politically expedient today, though, may prove
economically devastating tomorrow.  Take Indonesia, a clear emerging-market favorite these
days. Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution said last week
that the urgency to adjust rates is “not too high” even after
 core inflation  accelerated to 4.62 percent in April from 4.45
percent. An appreciating currency won’t be enough to keep these
increases from taking on a life of their own.  Political Fallout  Inflation worries are already shaking up the political
scene. In  Korea , President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “war” on it.
In  China , Premier  Wen Jiabao  made cooling the fastest inflation
since 2008 a top priority. In Singapore, it catalyzed voters to
serve Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong a wake-up call over the
weekend.  Lee pledged that his People’s Action Party will change the
way it governs after returning to power with the smallest
electoral margin of victory for the party since  Singapore ’s
independence in 1965. The discontent is partly about the dark
side of globalization.  On one end of the wage spectrum, Singapore attracts vast
pools of skilled bankers, scientists and executives whose wealth
bids up prices. On the lower end, Singapore is a magnet for low-
wage workers. So, middle-class wages are stagnant while prices
rise. Leave it to inflation pressures to shake up politically
stable Singapore.  And then there’s Vietnam, a cautionary tale among
developing economies. It exudes potential, and its natural
resources, demographics and low-cost labor are attracting the
world’s attention. And yet Vietnam has too much of a good thing
on its hands: too much money chasing too few stable investments.  Hard Lessons  The result is potential overheating that threatens to
undermine an economy that recently gained middle-income status.
There’s plenty of reason to think Vietnam will get things right,
and that goes for the rest of Asia, too. The key is for central
banks to get to work.  In the late 1990s, Asia learned the hard way that booms
must be calibrated to avoid busts. The region is now at such a
juncture and bold action is needed. If Asian inflation rates
follow Vietnam into double digits, the only winners will be gold
speculators.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Hanoi at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  