-- 
Goldman Sees Commodity Recovery as Slump Erases $99 Billion

-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-05-09T21:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/goldman-sees-commodities-recovery-as-week-long-rout-wipes-out-99-billion.html
The commodities rout that knocked off
$99 billion of market value last week is driving out speculators
and leading Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which forecast the plunge,
to predict a possible recovery.  The combination of slower growth in U.S. service industries
and fewer German manufacturing orders helped drive the Standard
& Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities down 11 percent in five
days, the most since December 2008, and erased all the gains
since mid-March. Wheat, zinc and gold rebounded at the end of
the week as U.S. payrolls exceeded economists’ forecasts,
reducing concern that demand will weaken.  “Given the magnitude of the pullback, it does create an
opportunity for more upside potential, particularly in the
second half of this year, when fundamentals are expected to
tighten,”  Jeffrey Currie , the London-based head of commodity
research at Goldman, said in a May 6 interview. A month ago,
Currie told investors they should be “underweight” in
commodities. “In the very near-term, we’d be a little
cautious,” he says now.  The value of all 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI
index was about $805 billion on May 6, compared with $891
billion on April 29, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on
the number of outstanding contracts and prices of futures
closest to delivery. Combined holdings of exchange-traded
products backed by precious metals fell to $119 billion from
$132 billion, the data show.  Investment Funds  Speculators retreated after investment funds had made near-
record bets on price gains last month and the S&P GSCI reached
the highest since August 2008. Commodities beat stocks, bonds
and the dollar for five consecutive months through the end of
April, the longest in at least 14 years, on forecasts for demand
exceeding output in everything from oil to copper to corn.  The most influential analysts and fund managers are divided
on where prices are headed. The last time the S&P GSCI fell this
much, the index rebounded 12 percent the following week, and by
the end of last month, it had more than doubled.  Bulls say the expanding global economy, led by growth in
China, India and  Brazil , is boosting demand at a time when
producers from BHP Billiton Ltd., the largest mining company, to
BP Plc,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil producer, can’t keep up.  Selling would be “premature,” and the rally will resume,
said  Hussein Allidina , the head of commodity research at Morgan
Stanley in New York, reiterating comments made before the rout.
“The decline we are seeing is not being driven by any
meaningful change in fundamentals,” he said.  ‘Not Turning Point’  “This is not a turning point,” said  Kevin Norrish , a
London-based managing director at  Barclays Capital , whose
commodities research team is ranked by Bloomberg in the top
three for copper and gold. “We’d expect to see a pretty good
recovery from these levels before too long.”  The S&P GSCI climbed 3.6 percent today, as silver futures
jumped 5.2 percent and crude oil in  New York  added 5.5 percent.  Brent crude  should rebound about 3 percent to $115 a barrel
in coming weeks because violence in northern  Africa  and the
Middle East continues, Christin Tuxen, an analyst at Danske Bank
A/S in Copenhagen and the most-accurate oil forecaster tracked
by Bloomberg over eight quarters, said on May 6. The fighting
already curbed supply from  Libya  and increased concern that it
may spread to regional producers including Saudi Arabia.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised its oil-price forecasts for
this year and next on May 6 because it expects production to
fall short of demand. Brent crude will average $120 in 2011 and
2012, from previous estimates of $110 and $114, the bank said.
Oil prices should match or top their recent highs by next year,
Goldman said in a note to clients on the same day.  Global Recession  The bears say that even if the economy grows, speculation
is so excessive that prices no longer reflect supply and demand.
The S&P GSCI Index is 39 percent higher than a year ago and more
than twice where it was in February 2009, when economies were
recovering from the global recession.  Commodities are at the start of a bear market that may last
as long as five to 10 years, said Michael Aronstein, the
president of Marketfield Asset Management in New York who
correctly predicted the 2008 slump that drove the benchmark
index down 66 percent in seven months.  The scale of investment means “supply and demand is almost
meaningless,” Aronstein said in an interview May 6. “It’s
almost like the last days of the tech bubble.”  Oil, which lost 15 percent last week in New York and 13
percent in  London , became “detached from fundamentals,” said
 Oswald Clint , London-based head oil analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, the joint-most-accurate oil forecaster tracked by
Bloomberg in 2010. Brent could drop below $100 a barrel, he
said. That’s about 14 percent lower than now.  Commodity Funds  About $9.61 billion went into commodity funds in the first
quarter, more than triple the $2.77 billion a year earlier, EPFR
Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm, said in
a report in April. Energy funds attracted $10.9 billion,
compared with a year-earlier outflow of $367 million.  A rebound in the dollar also dimmed the appeal for
commodities that are priced in the U.S. currency. The Dollar
Index, a measure against six counterparts, rose 2.6 percent last
week, the most since August. The index has a negative
correlation of 0.89 to the S&P GSCI Index. A figure of 1 would
mean they move in lockstep. The currency gauge may drop to the
lowest since July 2008 by the end of the year, estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Five-Day Slump  “This is probably the beginning of a bear phase, even if
it’s temporary, where the dollar and bonds will be more popular
than commodities,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist
at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “It’s fitting
hand in glove with the U.S. slowdown story.”  The S&P GSCI’s five-day slump, the longest since August,
began on May 2 and accelerated on May 5 by plunging 6.5 percent,
the most since January 2009.  Silver led the rout after CME Group Inc., the owner of the
Comex exchange, increased the cost of making new speculative
positions by 84 percent in two weeks. Prices that advanced as
much as 61 percent to $49.845 an ounce this year tumbled 27
percent last week to $35.287 on May 6. The metal may drop as low
as $30 toward the end of the year before rebounding as gold
rallies, said Dan Smith, the London-based analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc, which predicted a decline in prices last month.  Gold, Soros  Gold also fell, declining 4.2 percent to $1,491.60 an ounce
last week, after the Wall Street Journal reported May 4 that
Soros Fund Management LLC, the hedge fund chaired by billionaire
investor George Soros, sold some of its precious-metal holdings.  Bullion will advance to a record $1,650 by year-end, partly
fueled by central banks buying to diversify their reserves, said
Andrew Kaleel, chief executive officer of Sydney-based H3 Global
Advisors Pty Ltd., which has a commodity hedge fund managing
about A$600 million ($642 million).  Mexico, Russia and Thailand bought about a combined $6
billion of bullion in February and March, International Monetary
Fund data show. Since the end of 2009, countries including
 India , Sri Lanka, Mauritius and Bangladesh have bought metal.
Central banks are expanding their gold reserves for the first
time in a generation as bullion rises for an 11th consecutive
year, the longest winning streak since at least 1920.  The killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden may have
been the catalyst for this week’s slide in oil, the biggest
exchange-traded commodity by value. Crude had surged as much as
25 percent this year as violence swept through northern Africa
and the Middle East, disrupting 1.3 million barrels a day from
Libya and raising concerns of shortages from the Persian Gulf.
Since bin Laden’s death was announced, traders shifted their
focus to prospects of weaker demand.  Service Industries   Service industries in the U.S. expanded in April at the
slowest pace in eight months, the Institute for Supply
Management said May 4. Applications for jobless benefits jumped
the most since August in the week ended April 30, the Labor
Department said May 5. That was tempered by a report from the
department a day later showing payrolls increased last month by
the most since May 2010.  Factory orders in  Germany , Europe’s largest economy,
unexpectedly dropped 4 percent in March, the Economy Ministry
said May 5. The country’s industrial production rose for a third
time the same month, the ministry said the next day.  Central bankers also helped drive commodities lower last
week by indicating their intention to cool growth to combat
inflation. Rates rose in more than two-dozen countries this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Extremely Alert’  European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said
May 6 that policy makers are “extremely alert” on inflation
after they raised  interest rates  on April 7, joining  China ,
India, Poland and Sweden in seeking to control consumer prices
with tighter monetary policy. Trichet said he may take further
decisions on rates after new economic projections in June.  While every commodity tracked by the S&P GSCI fell last
week, some rebounded May 6. Wheat futures rose 2 percent on the
Kansas City Board of Trade as drought and flooding threatened
crops in  North America , Europe and  Asia . Cocoa, cattle, zinc,
gold, copper, nickel and soybeans also gained.  Lower prices also may spur more demand. Barclays, which
told investors in a report May 6 to use the slump to buy, is
forecasting shortfalls in production this year for copper,
nickel, tin, lead, platinum and palladium. Rabobank expects
demand to exceed output in corn and cotton, according to a
report last month.  ‘Strong’ Demand  “Ultimately, supply remains weak, and demand remains
strong, and that’s why they will eventually go higher,” said
John Stephenson, who helps manage $2.6 billion at First Asset
Investment Management Inc. in Toronto. “Commodities, in the
worst case, will start firming by late August, but in the
meantime, I would see this as a buying opportunity.”  Oil demand will exceed supply this year, the U.S. Energy
Department said in a report April 12. Billionaire hedge-fund
manager T. Boone Pickens said May 3 that prices will rise.  “If you look at the fourth-quarter projection for oil,
that’s 90 million barrels a day globally, and I don’t think the
world can produce more than 88 million,” Pickens said in an
interview from Los Angeles with Willow Bay and Lisa Murphy on
Bloomberg Television’s “Fast Forward.”  For now, funds are probably still trimming bets on higher
commodity prices. Net-long positions held by managed-money funds
fell 2.4 percent to 1.45 million futures and options in the week
ended May 3, Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.
They reached a record 1.56 million contracts in October.  Open interest in 17 of 19 commodities tracked by the
Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index dropped 0.6 percent to 8.15
million contracts, data from the CFTC show. That compares with
an all-time high of 8.6 million on Feb. 18.  “I don’t think the commodities boom is over,” said
Robbert Van Batenburg, an analyst at Louis Capital Markets in
New York, who correctly predicted a 2007 rebound in oil. “We
may see a pause in the rally, and that’s OK. Past the summer
doldrums, I think the rally picks up where we left off.”  To contact the reporters on this story;
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net . 