-- 
Goldman Sells First Kangaroo Bonds in 5 Years: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-05-09T22:37:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/goldman-sells-first-kangaroo-bonds-in-5-years-australia-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is returning
to  Australia ’s bond market for the first time since 2006 to take
advantage of relative yields on financial debt hovering at about
the lowest level in three years.  The fifth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets sold A$1.25 billion
($1.35 billion) of 5 1/2-year notes yesterday, including A$500
million of floating-rate bonds priced to yield 205 basis points
more than the bank bill swap rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The extra yield investors demand to own Australian
dollar bank bonds instead of government debt has shrunk 37 basis
points this year to 157, compared with a drop of 31 on U.S.
financial securities to 175, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes show.  The New York-based bank follows JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in returning to the so-called kangaroo
bond market, which shut to financial issuers in 2008 after the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. spurred investors to
shun all but the safest debt.  “It is a sign of market health that Goldman can consider
issuing in Australia,” said  John Sorrell , head of credit at
Tyndall Investment Management Australia Ltd. in Sydney, who
helps manage about A$14 billion of fixed-income assets. “I
expect more financial kangaroo sales.”  Basis Swaps  While Australia’s benchmark interest rate of 4.75 percent
compares with near zero in the U.S., the currency swaps market
is offering discounts to borrowers as they switch the proceeds
into U.S. dollars.  The five-year Australian dollar basis swap, which measures
the cost of switching interest based on the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor, for payments linked to Australia’s bank
bill swap rate, was at 20.3 basis points in Sydney today.  It peaked at 48 basis points in November 2009, and has
averaged 21.7 this month, compared with an average 8.6 for the
five years to 2007. The higher the level, the greater the
discount for overseas borrowers selling debt in Australia.  The spread paid by Goldman Sachs, rated A by  Standard &
Poor’s , compares with the 113 basis points that  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  and Westpac Banking Corp. each paid
on five-year bonds last week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Both Australian companies are ranked AA, three rungs higher than
Goldman Sachs.  Previous Sale  Goldman Sachs paid a 51-basis-point spread over swap rates
when it issued A$200 million of 10-year 6.35 percent kangaroo
notes in March 2006, part of an offering that totaled A$1.65
billion and was the lender’s last sale of the securities, the
data show. The notes were last quoted at a spread of 182 basis
points, ANZ prices show.  Kangaroo bond sales surged to a record A$37.3 billion last
year as the swaps market cut funding costs for issuers once
proceeds were exchanged into U.S. dollars. The World Bank and
 Germany ’s Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank were among the top
borrowers.  The World Bank’s International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development sold A$600 million of 5.5 percent October 2014 notes
on Jan. 18. The securities were priced to yield 49.25 basis
points more than similar-maturity government debt, Bloomberg
data show.  That rate equated to about 10 basis points less than Libor,
once swapped into U.S. dollars, the data show. In June, the IBRD
priced $2 billion of floating-rate bonds due July 2011 to yield
5 basis points more than Libor.  Hayley Morris, a Sydney-based spokeswoman for Goldman
Sachs, didn’t immediately respond to two telephone requests for
comment on yesterday’s sale.  Growth Forecast  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which kept its target rate
at 4.75 percent last week, expects the economy to expand 4.25
percent this year, the fastest pace since 1999. It’s banking on
a rising currency to help curb inflation.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan will release the
government’s budget later today amid promises of “substantial”
spending cuts. Swan, who delivers the budget to Parliament
beginning at 7:30 p.m. local time, said earlier this week that
the deficit in the government’s finances will widen in the
fiscal year ending June 30 before increased mining revenue and
an improving economy help bring about a surplus in 2012-13.  Australia’s dollar climbed 20 percent over the past year to
$1.0786 at 8:18 a.m. in Sydney today, and touched $1.1012 on May
2, the highest since exchange controls were scrapped in 1983.  Consumer Prices  Consumer prices may rise an annual 3.11 percent in the next
five years, according to the gap between yields on government
bonds and inflation-indexed notes. The RBA aims to hold
inflation between 2 and 3 percent on average.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond dropped
1 basis point to 5.42 percent yesterday, or 225 basis points
more than similar-maturity Treasuries.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian-dollar
bank bonds instead of government debt fell to 154 basis points
in March, the lowest since January 2008, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch indexes show.  Kangaroo bond sales, which total A$16.2 billion this year,
slowed from a record start after Australia’s banking regulator
ruled that notes sold by top-rated borrowers such as the  World
Bank  don’t qualify as assets lenders need to hold under Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision rules.  RBC Capital Markets  leads underwriter rankings with an 18
percent market share, followed by  Commonwealth Bank of Australia 
with 11 percent, Bloomberg data show.  JPMorgan paid 135 basis points more than swap rates when it
sold A$600 million of five-year kangaroo bonds in March,
Bloomberg data show. It’s rated A+ by S&P, the fifth-highest
investment grade.  Demand for the Goldman Sachs notes was “very strong” and
the spread was fair, said Mark Mitchell, a portfolio manager and
head of credit at Sydney-based Kapstream Capital, which manages
about A$3.9 billion and bought the bonds.  “We would classify Goldman Sachs as being too big to fail
in terms of their systemic importance in the U.S.,” he said.
“We’re pretty comfortable having exposure to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 