-- 
Gramercy May Lose About 900 Properties on Unpaid Loans

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-05-10T13:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/gramercy-capital-says-790-million-properties-face-foreclosure.html
(Corrects number of properties subject to foreclosure in
headline, first and sixth paragraphs of story published May 9.)  Gramercy Capital Corp., a  New York- 
based real estate investment trust, said lenders may seek to
seize about 900 properties after it failed to pay off $790
million in loans.  The lenders -- Goldman Sachs Mortgage Co., Citicorp North
America Inc.,  SL Green Realty Corp. (SLG)  and KBS Debt Holdings LLC --
“may immediately seek to exercise available remedies, which
will likely include attempting to foreclose on all or
substantially all the collateral,” Gramercy said today in a
statement.  Lenders that offered to extend troubled real estate debt
after the 2008 financial crisis have turned increasingly to
liquidating loans and selling the underlying assets, according
to  Real Capital Analytics Inc.  In the first quarter, 57 percent
of workouts were permanently resolved, mostly through
liquidations or sales, up from 49 percent a year earlier, the
New York-based property-data company reported April 18.  “Lenders are shifting relatively quickly from the ‘extend
and pretend’ mentality to taking action and getting control of
the assets,” John Guinee, an analyst who follows office and
industrial real estate investment trusts at Stifel Nicolas &
Co., said in a telephone interview from Baltimore.  Gramercy, which invests in loans secured by commercial and
multifamily properties, delayed the release of its annual report
as it sought to modify or refinance the loans, originally due in
March 2010. The loans are secured by mortgages on properties
held by the company’s Gramercy Realty division, according to
Gramercy Capital’s third-quarter earnings report.  Mezzanine Loans  The portfolio consists of a $240.5 million mortgage and
$549.7 million in senior and junior mezzanine loans, according
to today’s statement. Mezzanine loans, used to bridge the
difference between the senior mortgage and the owner’s equity,
carry higher  interest rates  and give the holder the ability to
foreclose on the property.  The Goldman mortgage and mezzanine debts were in connection
with Gramercy’s $3.1 billion acquisition of American Financial
Realty Trust in April 2008, Gramercy Chief Financial Officer Jon Clark said in an e-mail today. American Financial Realty,
founded by Lewis Ranieri, invested mostly in bank branches and
office buildings. Gramercy Realty has interests in about 900
properties, including 195 in a mortgage originated by Goldman,
Clark said.  ‘Substantial Book Loss’  A loss of the portfolio “would trigger a substantial book
loss and would likely result in the company having negative book
value,” according to Gramercy Capital’s earnings report.  Gramercy Capital was previously a financing unit of and run
by executives from SL Green. Gramercy in 2009 acquired its
management company, which was an SL Green unit, and hired its
own executives, including Chief Executive Officer Roger Cozzi.
SL Green remains its largest shareholder, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gramercy was formed in 2004 “to assume, and then expand to
a national scale, SL Green’s structured finance lending
business,” according to Gramercy’s website. Both SL Green CEO
Marc Holliday and President Andrew Mathias previously worked for
Capital Trust Inc., a REIT that specializes in underwriting,
structuring and managing real estate debt.  “They thought the investment opportunities were so big it
warranted its own company,” said Michael Knott, an analyst at
 Newport Beach , California-based Green Street Advisors Inc. “At
first it was a blissful marriage, through 2004, ‘05 and even
into ‘06, then it did get a bit dicey. Eventually Green and
Gramercy agreed to go their own ways.”  SL Green Acquisition  SL Green,  Manhattan ’s largest office landlord, agreed in
December to buy real estate investments from Gramercy for $390.8
million, including the right to a 100 percent leasehold on the
Lipstick Building at 885 Third Ave., 2 Herald Square and 292
Madison Ave. The proceeds from that deal are separate from
Gramercy Realty, Clark said in an e-mail today.  Gramercy Capital fell 36 cents, or 13 percent, to $2.34 as
of 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  