-- 
Greek Funds Head Warns Debt Restructuring to Devastate Economy

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-05-10T13:13:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/greek-fund-industry-head-warns-debt-restructuring-would-devastate-economy.html
Greece ’s money managers are warning
of damage to an already crippled economy should European leaders
move to restructure the country’s debt.  Greek 10-year bond yields and the cost of insuring the
country’s debt against default rose to all-time highs at the end
of April amid speculation about a debt write-off or an extension
of repayment timelines. Standard & Poor’s cut Greece’s long-term
sovereign credit rating by two levels yesterday to B, five
notches below investment grade. The rating may be lowered
further, S&P said.  “Right now a restructuring shouldn’t and can’t happen,”
Aris Xenofos, president of the  Hellenic Fund & Asset Management
Association  representing 36 firms, said in an interview before
the downgrade. “It would be devastating for the  Greek economy ,
and detrimental for the rest of the European Union and the
euro.”  Greece is relying on its 110 billion-euro ($157 billion)
bailout last year from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund , as well as Treasury bill sales, to meet its
funding needs through 2011. As part of the package, Greece is
supposed to regain access to markets next year and refinance at
least 75 percent of its maturing medium- and long-term debt.  Bill Sale  Greece sold 26-week bills today to yield 4.88 percent, up
from 4.8 percent at the previous auction on April 12, and
investors requested 3.58 times the securities on sale compared
with 3.81 times previously.  The government is eliminating state jobs and reducing debt
at nationally owned enterprises as well as overhauling the
country’s tax and pension system to boost revenue.  “The key issue is not a restructuring, but the extent to
which the economy and Greek society will manage to produce and
deliver results following the structural reforms,” said
Xenofos, who also is managing director of EFG Eurobank Mutual
Fund Management Co., part of Greece’s second-largest bank.  European Central Bank Executive Board member Lorenzo  Bini Smaghi  said allowing a euro-area member state to default on or
restructure its debt would create more problems than it solves.  “Default or debt restructuring is a dramatic economic and
social event for the country which experiences it -- I would
call it political ‘suicide’ -- which leads many into poverty, as
experience has shown,” Bini Smaghi said in a speech in Florence
today. While at first sight it might seem reasonable and fair to
ask investors to bear the consequences of their decisions, “it
is wrong not only in theory but also in practice,” he said.  Lobbying for Default  Bini Smaghi said large investors who have bought insurance
against sovereign default “stand to benefit greatly from the
default and lobby in favor of it.”  Fellow ECB Executive Board member Juergen Stark said today
Greece is “not insolvent” and added the current fiscal program
is aimed at regaining  market access . “At the end of the day, a
restructuring wouldn’t be a solution to the problems that Greece
needs to overcome. There are structural problems and the budget
needs to be brought under control,” he said.  “The ECB is fighting to keep politicians away from the
restructuring debate,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research
at AMN Amro in Amsterdam. “They are worried that people are
starting to consider it in important capitals.”  Further Adjustments  Euro-region officials said that Greece needs “a further
adjustment program” after an unscheduled May 6 meeting with
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of the
group of finance ministers. A restructuring would hurt more than
providing the country with additional help, the senior finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian
Democratic Union party said yesterday in Berlin.  George Magnus , senior economic adviser for  UBS Investment
Bank  in  London , said European Union leaders must restructure
Greek debt without further delay.  “The sooner it happens the better,” Magnus said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . “It is incumbent on  Europe  to basically draw a
line somewhere, to say enough is enough, we’ve basically got to
deal with this in a traditional debt-restructuring manner.”  Yields on two-year Greek notes fell 28 basis points to 25.3
percent at 2.33 p.m. in Athens today after hitting a record last
week. The 10-year yield fell 28 basis points to 15.4 percent, up
from 12.4 percent at the start of the year.  Economic Plight  The markets should wait until next year to see if there are
signs Greece’s economy is returning to growth, Xenofos said at
his  Athens  office on April 29.  “We need to wait until at least the earlier part of 2012
to see where we are and whether we need to start discussing more
serious scenarios for a restructuring and the conditions and
nature such a restructuring would take,” Xenofos said.  Greece’s economy, in its third year of a recession, is
forecast by the government to shrink 3 percent this year before
returning to growth in 2012. The country’s debt is projected to
peak at 59 percent more than economic output in 2012.  The country plans 76 billion euros of austerity measures
and state-asset sales through 2015 that aim to reduce the  budget
deficit  to close to 1 percent of gross domestic product from a
targeted 7.4 percent this year.  “Greece’s problems won’t be solved by restructuring its
debt but by restructuring the country,” Prime Minister  George Papandreou  said April 15.  Greek Funds  The Hellenic Fund & Asset Management Association’s members
had combined assets of 10 billion euros at the end of 2010,
according to the  group’s website .  Any possible restructuring of Greek debt would have a
“limited” effect on Greece’s fund management industry as “a
very rigid” legal framework requires managers to value all
securities based on the current market price, Xenofos said.  Domestic bond funds have exposure of about 700 million
euros, he said. The figure rises to 1.5 billion euros when
money-market funds and those investing in a range of assets are
included, Xenofos said.  Key to the growth of Greece’s fund management industry are
the state pension funds, which have so far only allocated as
much as 1.8 billion euros to mutual funds out of a total of
about 25 billion euros of assets, according to Xenofos.  “If you have state pension funds that don’t support the
fund management industry in Greece, then you don’t have a safety
net for situations such as the one we are experiencing,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  