-- 
Greece Joins Belarus as Europe’s Lowest-Rated Country After S&P’s Debt Cut

-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s
-- 
2011-05-09T16:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/greece-s-credit-rating-is-cut-to-b-from-bb-by-s-p-may-be-reduced-further.html
Greece ’s credit rating was cut two
levels to B from BB- by  Standard & Poor’s , which said further
reductions are possible as the risk of default rises.  Another cut would make Greece the lowest-rated country in
 Europe  as today’s reduction, the fourth by S&P since April 2010,
left it even with Belarus. The yield on Greek 10-year bonds rose
21 basis points to 15.7 percent, more than twice the level of a
year ago when Greece accepted an international bailout.  The S&P decision came on the first business day after an
unannounced Friday evening meeting of European finance ministers
May 6 in which they agreed Greece needed more help to avoid a
restructuring. Extended repayment terms and demands for
collateral may be part of a new aid plan. Moody’s Investors
Service today placed Greece’s B1 rating on review for downgrade.  “The downgrade reflects our view of increasing sentiment
among Greece’s key euro-zone official creditors to extend the
debt payment maturities of their 80 billion euros ($115 billion)
of bilateral loans pooled by the European Commission,” S&P said
in an e-mailed statement. “As part of such an extension, we
believe the euro-zone creditor governments would likely seek
‘comparability of treatment’ from commercial creditors in the
form of their similarly extending bond and loan maturities.”  A year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro aid package
that aimed to stem the spread of the region’s sovereign crisis,
the nation’s debt is rising as it faces record borrowing costs.
Two-year bonds yield more than 25 percent, indicating investors
are betting Greece won’t be able to return to markets as planned
under the bailout next year, when it was due to sell 25 billion
euros to 30 billion euros of bonds.  ‘Not Doable’  A return to markets next year “is just not doable,”
 Gilles Moec , co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse”
with Maryam Nemazee. “Greece needs extra lending.”  The difference in yield between Greece’s benchmark 10-year
bond and comparable German debt increased 27 basis points to
12.6 percentage points today and the cost of insuring its debt
against default reached a record 1,375 basis points.  Greece missed its deficit target for last year, reporting a
shortfall of 10.5 percent, versus a target of 9.6 percent.
Achieving 2011 targets “is uncertain” and the government “may
see a restructuring of official and commercial debt as the best
way forward,” S&P said.  Investor Haircut  “Our projections suggest that principal reductions of 50
percent or more could eventually be required to restore Greece’s
debt burden to a sustainable level, given trend growth potential
of the  Greek economy ,” S&P said. The company left its recovery
rating on Greece unchanged at 4, indicating investors would
recover 30 percent to 50 percent in a default.  The cut “comes at a time when there have been no new
negative developments or decisions since the last rating action
by the agency just over a month ago and therefore is not
justified,” the Athens-based  Finance Ministry  said in an e-
mailed statement today. Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
has repeatedly denied that Greece would restructure its debt.  Ireland and  Portugal  followed Greece in seeking bailouts as
investors shunned the debt of the region’s other high-deficit
nations, driving up their borrowing costs. Credit-default swaps
on Ireland also reached an all-time high of 681 basis points and
contracts on Portugal rose.  “One by one, they will all need to renegotiate,” said
 Bill Blain , co-head of strategy at broker Newedge in  London .
“As Europe’s most peripheral economy, Greece is just a canary
in the  coal mine .”  Greek Denials  Officials in  Athens  spent the weekend denying speculation
that Greece was headed out of the euro or into default after the
gathering of finance ministers in Luxembourg and a Spiegel
magazine report that Greece was considering a return to the
drachma.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told
reporters after the meeting that a new aid package for Greece
was in the works. The extra money may require Greece to provide
collateral or expand a plan to sell 50 billion euros of state
assets, said a person with direct knowledge of the situation.
Greece may also win easier repayment terms and deficit
conditions on the original bailout.  More lenient terms are a better option than forcing a
restructuring, say ruling party lawmakers in  Germany , the
biggest contributor to the bailout funds.  “We’ll just have to bite the bullet,” said  Norbert Barthle ,
budget spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party.
“What’s the alternative? We don’t want to be pushed over the
edge into restructuring.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Davis  in Rome at   abdavis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  