-- 
Liberal Democrats Ministers Vow Louder Voice After Poll, Referendum Losses

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-05-09T12:00:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/liberal-democrats-ministers-vow-louder-voice-after-poll-referendum-losses.html
U.K. Liberal Democrat ministers vowed
to raise their profile within Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservative-led coalition after suffering the worst local-
election results since the party was formed in 1988.  Chief Secretary to the Treasury  Danny Alexander  underlined
pledges by Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  yesterday to have a 
“louder voice” after last week’s voting, which included a 
referendum defeat for the Liberal Democrats on overhauling the 
voting system, a step opposed by Cameron. The referendum campaign
was a “forcible reminder” that the coalition partners “remain 
very different parties,” Alexander said in a speech in  London  
today.  “We need to communicate more strongly,” Alexander said, 
according to remarks released by his office. “We need to make 
sure that the Lib Dem voice that argues its corner strongly
within government is heard more loudly outside too.”  As junior partners in the coalition that took power last
year, Clegg’s party has borne the brunt of popular discontent
over plans to impose the deepest cuts in public spending since
World War II. The Liberal Democrats have been hit after policy
U-turns that included the ditching of a pledge not to increase
college tuition fees.  In local elections in  England , Clegg’s party lost 748
seats, while Cameron’s Conservatives gained 86. The main
opposition  Labour Party  added 857 seats. The  referendum  on the
voting system, a Liberal Democrat condition of last year’s
coalition agreement, saw voters reject the overhaul proposed by
Clegg by 68 percent to 32 percent.  Stable, Businesslike  Alexander said that the coalition “will continue as a
strong, stable, businesslike partnership” with the overriding
objective of eliminating the  budget deficit . To emphasize how
the Liberal Democrats are making an impact in government, he 
pointed to analysis that his party is implementing about three 
quarters of its election pledges from last year, while the
Conservatives are pushing through about 60 percent of their
promises.  In the first show of strength, Clegg said yesterday he’s
ready to block a revamp of the  National Health Service  unless
there are “substantial, significant changes” to the
legislation.  “People want to hear a louder Liberal Democrat voice in
government,” Clegg said in an interview on  BBC television . “We
need to show people where we are a moderating influence on the
Conservatives. We need to stand up for our values and say that
loud and clear.”  Slower Pace  Clegg said his party will force changes to the  Health and
Social Care Bill , which allows for the transfer of about 60
percent of the NHS budget from local boards to community doctors
and for the extension of a competitive market in health-care
provision. The party wants to slow the pace of NHS reform and
will emphasize its role in reducing tax for the low-paid,
providing additional funding for schools and improving pensions,
he said.  Alexander said today that “sound public finances are as 
essential to liberals as to conservatives,” attacking Labour 
plans to water down the deficit-reduction plan.  “Cutting slower means cutting deeper,” he said. “We prefer 
to give the country and the markets the confidence that we will 
get this job done.”  Business Secretary and fellow Liberal Democrat  Vince Cable 
suggested another area in which the party may “promote Lib Dem
values and policies” is in increasing pressure on banks over
lending to business beyond the 190 billion pounds ($311 million
agreed to in February’s Project Merlin accord. In a Sky News
television interview yesterday, he also hinted that the
coalition might look at a proposal he raised in opposition for a
“mansion tax” on houses worth over 2 million pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  