-- 
Liberia Signs Accord With EU to Protect Forests, Stop Illicit Timber Trade

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-09T09:54:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/liberia-agrees-to-protect-forests-stop-illicit-timber-trade.html
Liberia  signed a voluntary accord with
the European Union aimed at preventing the export of illegally
felled timber, stepping up the country’s efforts to curb
corruption within its logging industry.  About half of West  Africa ’s remaining tropical rain forest,
the shelter for endangered or rare species of wildlife as well
as vital sinks that absorb greenhouse gas emissions, is in
Liberia. Woodland covers about 45 percent of the country.  “The agreement builds on the reforms that are ongoing in
Liberia to ensure accountability and good governance in the
sector,” Luis Riera Figueras, chief negotiator of the accord
for the 27-nation EU, said in a May 5 phone interview from
Brussels. “We want the forest sector to contribute to the
country’s recovery.”  Liberia is trying to rebuild its economy following a 14-
year civil war partly funded by timber revenue and the removal
of United Nations sanctions on its logging exports five years
ago, according to an e-mailed statement today from European
Forest Institute, a research body based in  Finland .  Liberia’s postwar administration has revoked all permits of
logging companies known to be acting illegally, starting the
licensing process anew, and improved regulations governing its
timber business, according to the statement. The industry has
strong growth potential, once accounting for as much as a fifth
of Liberia’s gross domestic product, Figueras said.  Exports Decline  Liberia’s volume of timber exports fell 30.4 percent to
100,247 pieces in the third quarter of 2010, compared with three
months earlier, due to bad weather and poor roads to ferry the
products, according to the  Central Bank of Liberia’s  website.  “Demand could increase given the growing movement in
consumer countries to require proof that wood and wood-product
exporters are dealing only in legal timber,” the EFI said.  Liberia becomes the fifth African nation to sign the
 Voluntary Partnership Agreement , following  Ghana , Cameroon, the
Central African Republic and the Republic of Congo, according to
the statement. The only country outside Africa to agree on a VPA
is  Indonesia , which joined the initiative last week, the EFI
said in the statement. Malaysia and Gabon are discussing it,
Figueras said.  The accord requires countries to manage their forests in a
sustainable way, making it possible to trace the source of its
timber, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  