-- 
Libyan Conflict Is ‘Paralyzing’ Country, UN Aid Chief Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-05-09T21:34:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/libyan-conflict-is-paralyzing-country-un-aid-chief-says.html
The fighting in  Libya  and the
international sanctions are “paralyzing” the country, causing
widespread shortages of food, fuel, medicine and other essential
goods, the UN’s emergency relief coordinator said.  “The longer the current situation continues, the graver
the humanitarian situation will become,” Valerie Amos told the
UN Security Council today in  New York . “The manner in which the
sanctions are implemented and monitored is causing serious
delays in the arrival of commercial goods.”  Amos appealed for a “temporary pause” in fighting to
allow an assessment of needs, delivery of medical supplies and
other aid, and the evacuation of the wounded.  The Libyan government refuses to accept a cease-fire unless
the North Atlantic Treaty Organization halts its UN-authorized
bombing campaign, according to Abdul Ilah al-Khatib, the UN’s
special envoy to the conflict. The rebels, meanwhile, won’t
enter into any agreement with Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  or
his family, he said.  Amos said 58,000 people are living in “spontaneous”
settlements in eastern Libya, and 746,000 have fled the country.
The UN has no accurate figure on deaths since the unrest began
in February, she said.  UN agencies received permission from the government to
establish an office in the capital, Tripoli, and to deliver
supplies to the besieged port city of Misrata in western Libya.
While aid is reaching Misrata on an “ad hoc” basis, Amos said,
Libyan security forces ransacked the UN office in Tripoli on May
1 and the staff was evacuated from the country.  The Qaddafi regime has committed to safeguard UN personnel
and property, so Amos said aid workers would return to Tripoli
as soon as possible and reopen land access to Misrata.  In the meantime, Amos also said desalination plants will
soon run out of fuel, only 45 percent of pre-conflict medical
staff are working, and most schools are closed, with no planning
for the next academic year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner at the  United Nations  at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  