-- 
Lime Wire’s Gorton Tells Jury He Hadn’t ‘Fully Appreciated’ Lawsuit Risk

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-05-09T20:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lime-wire-s-gorton-tells-jury-he-hadn-t-fully-appreciated-lawsuit-risk.html
Lime Wire LLC founder  Mark Gorton  told
a jury he hadn’t “fully appreciated” the damages he might have
to pay for copyright infringement in case of litigation over the
free downloading of songs through the company’s website.  Gorton testified today in a trial in U.S. District Court in
New York on the amount of money he will be assessed because of a
ruling that Lime Wire induced the infringement of thousands of
songs through its peer-to-peer file-sharing software on the
Internet.  “You went into Lime Wire with your eyes wide open about
the risks,” Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer for music companies such
as  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , told Gorton. He cited a memo to
potential Lime Wire investors in 2001 raising the possibility of
“substantial” damages from copyright litigation.  “I don’t believe I fully appreciated them,” Gorton
replied.  Warner’s chief executive officer, Edgar Bronfman, is to
testify May 11.  Music labels owned by Warner,  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Vivendi SA (VIV)  and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are seeking hundreds of millions of dollars from
Gorton. The trial judge, U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood , also
ordered Lime Wire to shut down its music service last year.  Pomerantz told the jury of eight women and one man in
opening statements May 3 that the record industry’s revenue fell
52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.  Testimony to Continue  Gorton, 44, was called by the record labels. His testimony
will resume tomorrow.  In 2005, the  Recording Industry Association of America , the
labels’ trade group, sent Gorton a letter demanding that he shut
down his site.  “At the time I didn’t think we were intentionally inducing
copyright infringement, but I understand the court has found
otherwise,” Gorton said.  He testified that if he had shut down  Lime Wire  when the
music companies wanted him to, its users “would have just gone
to another file-sharing program.”  Pomerantz told Wood with the jury out of the room that the
defense shouldn’t be allowed to argue that other file-sharing
services would have replaced Lime Wire because that was
inconsistent with her ruling last year.  Wood agreed and told the panel when it returned that
Gorton’s testimony on that point will be stricken from the
record.  Revenue Drop’s Causes  Gorton’s lawyers are trying to convince the jurors that
events unrelated to file sharing caused the drop in music
industry revenue.  Counterfeiting and copying of CDs, the recession,
bankruptcies of music wholesalers and retailers, the maturing of
the CD market, competition from other forms of entertainment and
the industry’s inability to exploit the new technologies all
played a part, Joseph Baio, a lawyer representing Lime Wire and
Gorton, told jurors May 3.  “The  record companies  know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Baio said.  The record labels  are seeking statutory damages under
federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings released since 1972,
according to court papers. The maximum of $150,000 for each
recording would total $1.4 billion. Other damages on pre-1972
recordings will also be sought, the companies said in court
filings.  Lime Wire Income  Baio said Gorton made only about $6 million from the songs
the record companies have listed as taken unlawfully. Lime Wire,
which provided free software for file sharing, made money by
selling a faster, premium version of the program.  The record companies accused Gorton of making a fraudulent
transfer of assets into family limited partnerships to shield
the funds from liability. Pomerantz told the jurors in his
opening that Gorton transferred the money three days after the
U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled in 2005 that file-sharing service
Grokster could be held liable for copyright infringement.  Gorton’s lawyers have said the asset transfer resulted from
estate planning and that the closing date was set before the
Supreme Court’s decision.  Bronfman will be the first chief executive of a recording
company to testify. On May 6, New York-based Warner said it
agreed to sell itself to a former director,  Len Blavatnik , for
about $1.3 billion in cash, or $8.25 a share.  Warner Music Group rose 1 cent to $8.19 at 3:59 p.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange composite trading.  Zach Horowitz, the chief operating officer of Vivendi’s
 Universal Music Group , testified last week.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  