-- 
Innkeepers, Bankrupt Hotel Owner, Files Chapter 11 Plans Following Auction

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-05-09T17:16:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/innkeepers-bankrupt-hotel-owner-files-chapter-11-plans-following-auction.html
Innkeepers USA Trust  proposed terms
for at least four separate Chapter 11 plans after Cerberus
Capital Management LP and  Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  won a bankruptcy
auction for 64 hotels with a bid of $1.12 billion.  The plans would resolve claims against 92 units in
bankruptcy and wouldn’t need to be confirmed simultaneously,
Innkeepers said in a disclosure statement filed today in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . At a May 3 auction, Cerberus and
Chatham topped a $970.7 million offer from a unit of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and Five Mile Capital Partners.  “After over 14 hours of competitive bidding between
Cerberus/Chatham and Five Mile/Lehman, the debtors closed the
auction,” lawyers for Innkeepers wrote adding that the final
bid gave creditors $154 million in value over the Five
Mile/Lehman stalking horse bid.  Innkeepers, based in  Palm Beach ,  Florida , has 71 extended-
stay and limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20
states. The company will seek court approval tomorrow of the so-
called disclosure statements explaining the terms of its plans.  Chatham, a Palm Beach-based hotel investment company, won
another group of five hotels, the LNR properties, with a bid of
$195 million. Two other hotels would be turned over to their
lenders.  Creditor Recoveries  Under the biggest of the plans, covering the 64 hotels sold
to Cerberus and Chatham, secured creditors would be repaid in
full. Holders of secured fixed-rate pool mortgage-loan claims
against the hotels would get 88 cents on the dollar, while
mezzanine lenders would get nothing to 12 cents on the dollar.
Unsecured creditors would get 68 cents to 100 cents on the
dollar.  Midland, a creditor and servicer of $825 million of fixed-
rate mortgage debt, will agree not to pursue lawsuits against
 Apollo Investment Corp. (AINV) , which acquired Innkeepers in July 2007
in a $1.35 billion transaction, according to the plan. In return
for a release, Innkeepers will pay Midland $3 million.  Midland had sued Apollo, and the bankruptcy court had left
open the possibility for a breach-of-contract claim, according
to court papers.  The Hilton Suites hotel in Anaheim,  California , will be
turned over to Lehman Brothers, which controls the mezzanine
debt. The special servicer for the mortgage on the Hilton in
Ontario, California, C-III, will take over the property and pay
cash for what the disclosure statement calls a “small
percentage recovery” for unsecured creditors.  Innkeepers filed for Chapter 11 in July, listing assets of
$1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 