-- 
Mississippi to Crest in Memphis as Floods Move South

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 
2011-05-09T21:00:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/mississippi-crests-in-memphis-as-flooding-threat-moves-south-to-refineries.html
The  Mississippi  River is forecast to
crest today in Memphis, Tennessee, just below its 74-year-old
record, as a bulge of water moves south toward the riverside
refineries in Louisiana, a threat that pushed gasoline futures
to the largest gain in 21 months.  The Mississippi threatens 3,075 buildings, including 949
homes and 12 apartment complexes, in Tennessee’s Shelby County,
which includes Memphis, the  Memphis/Shelby County Emergency
Management Agency  said yesterday. Exxon Mobil Corp. shut its
fuel terminal in the city April 29, Kevin Allexon, a company
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “A big monster is rising up on the downtown shores and
wrapping its arms around the city,” said David Shular, a
spokesman for Shelby County. “There are crowds of people along
the riverbank just to look at it because they just haven’t seen
it this high.”  The river is forecast to reach 48 feet in  Memphis  at 7
p.m., compared with the old mark of 48.7, according to a revised
 National Weather Service  forecast.  “Essentially it is beginning to crest right now,” said
Bill Borghoff, an NWS meteorologist in Memphis. “We expect it
should remain near 48 feet through Wednesday night or so.”  Third-Largest Watershed  Heavy rain on ground saturated by last winter’s melting
snow has caused flooding across the central U.S., said Jeff
Graschel, a hydrologist with the  Lower Mississippi River
Forecast Center  in Slidell, Louisiana.  The  Mississippi River , the third-largest watershed in the
world, drains 41 percent of the continental U.S. Flooding along
the river and its tributaries has closed roads and set crest
records in New Madrid and Caruthersville,  Missouri . Barge
traffic stopped on the  Ohio River , which drains into the
Mississippi at Cairo, Illinois, last week.  The water has the potential to close oil operations in the
New Orleans-to- Baton Rouge  region, which has 11 refineries with
a combined capacity of 2.5 million barrels a day, or 13 percent
of U.S. output, said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil
Associates LLC in Houston.  “The worst case is that the Mississippi rises and we get
actual flooding in the refineries and that could shut them down
several months like we saw with  Hurricane Katrina ,” Lipow said
today on Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” However, he
said he doesn’t expect the flooding to get that bad.  Gasoline Gains  Gasoline for June delivery surged 18.83 cents, or 6.1
percent, to settle at $3.2784 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was the first gain in six days and
follows a loss of 11 percent last week. The gain was the largest
since July 30, 2009.  In addition to flooding concerns, Chevron had a crude unit
fire in its Mississippi refinery and Exxon Mobil Corp. had a
unit failure in its  Illinois  plant.  At Baton Rouge, the Mississippi was at 40.91 feet as of 2
p.m. local time, above the 40-foot mark considered major stage
flooding, according to the weather service.  The  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers  opened the Bonnet Carre
Spillway, upriver from  New Orleans , today, said Rachel Rodi, a
spokeswoman for the agency. The spillway allows excess river
water to flow into  Lake Pontchartrain , which drains into the
 Gulf of Mexico .  Because of the damage that the river water can cause to
commercial fishing, Robert Barham, secretary of the state
Wildlife and Fisheries Department, asked the U.S. Department of
Commerce declare a fisheries failure, which would allow federal
assistance.  Louisiana Prepares  The flood threat on the Mississippi has led Louisiana
Governor Bobby Jindal to request 1,500 National Guard troops and
to declare an emergency in advance of flooding there.  The Mississippi and Ohio rivers are major delivery systems
for commodities and petroleum products. Wheat, soybeans and
other crops are grown along their banks.  “ Tennessee  hasn’t seen flooding like this in 75 years,”
said Lee Maddox, spokesman for the Tennessee Farm Bureau. The
northwestern part of the state, where entire counties are
largely under water, is “the breadbasket row-crop area of the
state,” with concentrations of corn and soybeans.  “Corn is out of the question because that window is
closing this week to keep up a good yield,” Maddox said. “Now
their only option is soybeans, if they can get that planted in
June. It’s unfortunate, especially at a time when commodity
prices are so good. They’re the best prices ever, and our
farmers aren’t going to take part in that.”  Fertile Farmland  About 900,000 acres may be affected in Mississippi, mostly
corn, soybeans and cotton, said Greg Gibson, spokesman for the
Mississippi Farm Bureau Federation, based in Jackson.  Mississippi has about 11 million acres of farmland, and the
land under flood threat “is the richest, most fertile farmland
in Mississippi,” he said. “If the waters don’t go down quickly
after the flood, farmers aren’t going to be able to plant.”  As long as  Louisiana ’s levees hold, crop losses will be
smaller than for other states because flooded areas will be
mainly swamp and woodlands, said Kyle McCann, associate
commodity director for the Louisiana Farm Bureau Federation.  Should the levee system fail, “then you’re talking about
serious agricultural damage,” he said, declining to give an
acreage estimate.  Flooding from other rivers has killed at least two people
in  Arkansas  and closed a 23-mile stretch of Interstate 40, the
third-longest highway in the U.S. system.  Across the Mississippi from Memphis, in Arkansas,
Crittenden County Emergency Management Coordinator Ronny Rogers
said he is confident the levee will hold back the river.  “I don’t have my bags packed,” Rogers said. “I’m not
worried about the levee breaking.”  The levee protecting the county, which includes West
Memphis, Arkansas, can withstand floods up to 56 feet, Roger
said. It has never held back a flood as high as the current one.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  