-- 
Italy Won’t Regain Pre-Crisis Level Before 2013, OECD Says

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-05-09T13:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/italy-won-t-regain-pre-crisis-level-before-2013-oecd-says-1-.html
Italy  needs to raise productivity and
cut its debt to fuel growth in an economy that won’t return to
its pre-recession level for another two years, the Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Gross domestic product “will not return to its pre-crisis
level before 2013-14, still well below the level that would have
prevailed under the pre-crisis trend, even though this past
trend was itself sluggish,” the Paris-based organization said
in a  report  published today. “A key priority is therefore to
stimulate productivity growth and labor supply.”  The recession was deeper in Italy than in much of the
European Union and the recovery slower, the OECD report said.
The global recession reduced the size of the Italian economy by
almost 6 percent between the first quarter of 2008 and the final
three months of last year, the fourth-biggest impact for a euro-
region country after  Greece , Ireland, and Slovenia, the OECD
said.  Italy’s budget shortfall, which the government plans to
bring within the EU’s 3 percent of GDP limit by 2013, declined
last year to 4.6 percent, while the public debt rose to almost
120 percent.  Italy “has contained the  budget deficit  to some extent,
but with public debt among the highest in the OECD, fiscal
consolidation needs to continue,” the OECD said in today’s
report. It called on the government to overhaul the tax system
and pass measures to reduce “barriers to competition, improve
the efficiency of secondary and tertiary education,” and
“lower public ownership.”  Cutting Red Tape  On May 5 Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s cabinet, aiming
to spur growth and productivity in the $2.3 trillion economy,
passed a plan to cut bureaucracy and offer tax breaks for
companies that invest in research. Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti, who avoided the kind of stimulus policies that
inflated budget deficits in other euro nations, said the plan
won’t require any increase in spending.  In a report published last month the OECD said the recovery
in the world’s most advanced economies is gathering strength and
predicted that growth in Italy may accelerate from the first
quarter. Rome-based statistic institute  Istat  will publish a
preliminary report on first-quarter GDP on May 13. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News expect 0.3 percent expansion, more
than the 0.1 percent rate in the fourth quarter, according to
the median of 23 forecasts.  After Italy’s export-led recovery from its deepest
recession since World War II lost pace in the final quarter of
2010, the government last month cut its projection for 2011
growth to 1.1 percent from 1.3 percent previously. That compares
with a GDP estimate of 1.2 percent by the OECD in an April
report that may be revised in its Economic Outlook on May 25,
the organization said.  Italy’s unemployment rate rose in March to 8.3 percent,
near the highest since monthly records began in 2004, as
businesses refrained from hiring on concern about the strength
of the recovery. OECD expects unemployment in Italy to rise to
8.4 percent this year, it said last month. That forecast is in
line with the government’s latest projection.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  