-- 
JCDecaux Considers Acquiring News Corp.’s Russian Unit, Forecasts Growth

-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 
2011-05-09T18:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/jcdecaux-considers-acquiring-news-corp-s-russian-unit-forecasts-growth.html
JCDecaux SA (DEC) , the world’s largest
seller of outdoor ads, said it’s interested in acquisition
targets including  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Russia-based advertising unit.  JCDecaux, based in Neuilly-sur-Seine outside Paris, walked
away from purchasing News Corp.’s Moscow-based News Outdoor in
2008 because the price was too high and the French advertiser
didn’t find a Russian partner, Co-Chief Executive Officer Jean- Francois Decaux said in an interview today.  “With the right Russian partner, which you need to do a
deal in  Russia , it could be interesting to us,” Decaux said.
News Outdoor has operations in countries including Russia,
Bulgaria, the  Czech Republic ,  Poland  and Romania.  JCDecaux has a credit line of 850 million euros ($1.22
billion) with a group of banks in  Europe  and withheld its
dividend from 2010 annual earnings in March to have cash for
acquisitions. A group of Russian investors including VTB
Capital, Alfa Capital Partners and CTC Media founder Peter Gerwe
was in talks to buy News Outdoor in late January, a person
familiar with the plans said at the time.  JCDecaux has also been public about its desire to purchase
U.S. rival CBS Outdoor Inc., saying it was the “natural buyer”
for the company.  CBS Corp. CEO Leslie Moonves last week said he’d be open to
talks with JCDecaux, even though his company is not actively
seeking a buyer for the outdoor unit. Decaux today declined to
comment on possible talks.  Emerging Markets  “We have a lot of competitors with very weak balance
sheets and then a big competitor, which says outdoor advertising
is no longer part of its core,” Decaux said, referring to  CBS
Corp. (CBS)  He also expressed interest in small and medium-sized
targets.  JCDecaux today reported a 9.9 percent increase in first-
quarter sales, helped by growth in emerging markets and
“solid” performances in more mature ones. It forecast organic
revenue growth, which strips out effects from acquisitions and
mergers, of about 4 percent for the second quarter.  First-quarter revenue climbed to 535.3 million euros. Sales
at the company’s street furniture division rose 6.7 percent to
261.7 million euros, while the transport unit, which has ads on
vehicles including buses, soared 22 percent to 181.3 million
euros, and billboard ads dropped 1 percent to 92.3 million
euros.  News Outdoor, founded in 1999, has more than 4,500
employees and operates about 60,000 ad displays in more than 300
cities, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  