-- 
Kenyans Demand Ethiopia Punish Militants Who Killed 31 in Attack Last Week

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-05-09T13:23:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/kenyans-demand-ethiopia-punish-militants-who-killed-31-in-attack-last-week.html
Northern Kenyans want Ethiopian
authorities to prosecute members of the Merille-tribe militia
suspected of carrying out a cross-border raid last week that
left as many as 31 Kenyans dead.  About 2,000 residents of Todonyang village fled 25
kilometers (15 miles) to Lowoarengak on May 2 when suspected
Merille tribesman ambushed the border town, the Turkana
Professionals Association said in an e-mailed statement today
from Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital. Fifteen people in an area
populated by the Turkana ethnic group are missing.  Kenya’s government put the  death toll  at 20 and sent a
“protest note” to the Ethiopian government, according to a May
5 statement on the country’s Office of Public Communications’
website, citing Internal Security Minister George Saitoti.  Amid a lack of security, schools in Todonyang have closed,
as food and clean drinking-water supplies dwindle even after the
government promised to provide aid, the association said.  “We are calling on the Ethiopian government to comply with
her obligations under international humanitarian and human-
rights law and bring justice to the perpetrators of the
Todonyang killing,” the citizens’ group said in the statement.
“We urge the international community to provide support and
humanitarian assistance to the displaced population.”  The Kenyan government should beef up security to protect
civilians living along the border with  Ethiopia  and set up
permanent immigration posts and military camps in four rural
communities to help keep the local economy going, it said.  ‘Operating With Impunity’  “These militia groups are operating with impunity within
the Kenyan territory for control of resources such as water and
fishing,” Gregory Akall, a spokesman for the association, said
by phone today from Nairobi. “Ethiopia must prosecute them for
the problem to ever stop.”  Last week’s attack on a group of Turkana traders returning
from a market in Ethiopia was probably to avenge the earlier
alleged killing of a Merille tribesman in a church compound
housing internally displaced people in Todonyang, Akall said.  It brings the number of Kenyans killed in clashes with the
Merille to 86 in 16 incidents since November 2008, according to
data collected by the association.  More than 100 people are expected to take part in a march
tomorrow in Nairobi to deliver a letter to Saitoti containing
the association’s list of demands, Akall said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  