-- 
Kesa Rises After Sky Reports Company May Get Bid From PAI

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n   a n d   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-05-09T08:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/kesa-rises-after-sky-reports-company-may-get-bid-from-pai-1-.html
Kesa Electricals Plc (KESA) ,  Europe ’s third-
largest electronics retailer, rose the most in almost seven
months in London trading after a report it may get bids from
leveraged-buyout firms including PAI Partners.  Kesa rose as much as 7.6 percent, its biggest intraday
increase since Oct. 13, and traded at 142.4 pence, up 3.9
percent, at 9:05 a.m., giving the company a market value of 754
million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Sky News reported that buyout groups including PAI Partners
are at “early stages” of examining a takeover of the retailer.
Activist investor Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC, which
pressured Carrefour SA shareholders into opposing a plan to spin
off the Dia discount chain and real-estate unit, has also built
up a 14.8 percent stake in Kesa. A spokesman for Kesa declined
to comment on the Sky report.  The possible sale to a private-equity buyer is
“surprising, the more obvious way of doing it is getting rid of
the loss-making business,” said Ramona Tipnis, an analyst at
Shore Capital, who has a “sell” rating on the stock. Selling the
unprofitable Comet unit to a private-equity buyer “could mean
you get more cash for it.”  The company, which reported a same-store sales decline of 4
percent in the third quarter as revenue at U.K. chain Comet
struggled, lost its U.K. managing director last week when Hugh Harvey resigned, a spokesman said today.  Comet Chain  Chief Executive Officer Thierry Falque-Pierrotin is
refurbishing stores at the Comet chain and adding services like
wall-mounting of television speakers to drive sales as higher
fuel costs and public sector spending cuts weigh on  consumer
confidence .  “It’s been known for a while that the profitable part of
the business is  France  and emerging markets,” Tipnis said. Kesa
is “a cash-generative business, so any debt they use to buy it
can be serviced.”  The retailer will report year-end sales figures on May 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  