-- 
Kyl Says Republicans in Debt Talks Reject Tax Boost as Option

-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-05-09T16:59:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/kyl-says-republicans-in-debt-talks-reject-tax-boost-as-option.html
Republican leaders taking part in
talks with the White House designed to devise a long-term
deficit reduction plan reject the idea of including an overhaul
of the U.S. tax code as part of a deal, said Senator  Jon Kyl ,
the Senate’s No. 2 Republican leader.  Kyl said in a  radio interview  May 7 that he and House
Majority Leader Eric Cantor both oppose having any tax increases
as part of a deal that could be paired with a vote this summer
to raise the nation’s $14.3 trillion debt, and that an overhaul
of the tax code would expose some Americans to higher taxes.  “It’s a little difficult to talk about pro-growth tax
reform because one of the elements of that of course is the
elimination of so-called tax expenditures,” Kyl of  Arizona  said
in an interview with broadcaster Larry Kudlow on 77WABC radio.
“When you do that, somebody’s taxes go up.”  Kyl and Cantor are the two Republicans taking part in talks
with Vice President  Joe Biden  that aim to forge a bipartisan
plan to cut the debt. President  Barack Obama  is calling for
broad tax-code changes that include closing individual income
tax loopholes to help boost revenue into the Treasury as part of
a plan.  Tax-code changes also are part of parallel talks under way
among a bipartisan “Gang of Six” lawmakers trying to forge
their own plan. Those talks have been beset by delays that
prevented the group from outlining ideas before Biden began his
own negotiations with six other members of Congress last week,
casting doubt on prospects for a quick debt-cutting deal before
the debt ceiling is reached later this summer.  Cap on Debt  The Gang of Six, three Senate Republicans and three
Democrats, is led by Democrat  Mark Warner  of  Virginia  and
Republican Saxby Chambliss of Georgia.  Kyl in the interview with Kudlow also reiterated that
Republicans in the Biden-led talks will oppose any effort to
include a cap on the nation’s debt or deficits in a deal. He
said such limits fail to be effective because they require
future  tax revenue  to be projected accurately. The stream of
federal revenue has been too unpredictable in the past, he said.  Instead, he said, he and Cantor support an overall cap on
 government spending .  “The idea of a spending cap is far preferable to a debt
cap, and that’s why Eric Cantor and I very strongly support that
approach,” Kyl said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  