-- 
Nasdaq, ICE Taking NYSE Bid Directly to Traders Who Would Profit From Deal

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-09T18:02:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nasdaq-ice-taking-nyse-bid-directly-to-traders-who-would-profit-from-deal.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  are taking their bid for NYSE
Euronext directly to traders seeking to profit from the
takeover, according to a Nasdaq OMX spokesman.  The meeting with arbitragers who own NYSE Euronext stock
follows a letter today in which Chief Executive Officers  Robert Greifeld  and Jeffrey Sprecher urged NYSE Euronext shareholders
to help them press their bid with board members. Greifeld and
Sprecher will meet with about 60 traders today, said Frank De Maria, a Nasdaq OMX spokesman. Investors must be NYSE Euronext
shareholders of record today to be eligible to vote July 7 on
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s all-stock deal, which the board backs.  Deutsche Boerse of  Frankfurt  agreed to buy NYSE Euronext on
Feb. 15 to create the world’s largest exchange operator, with an
offer valued at $37.69 a share as of 1:36 p.m. New York time.
The board twice rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal, worth 12
percent more at $42.31 a share, saying it declined to meet with
the CEOs because the unsolicited deal would lead to too much
debt and regulatory opposition.  “The NYSE Euronext board has rushed to its own judgment
without a willingness to consider the facts available to them,”
New York-based Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta’s ICE said in the letter
today. “Don’t let them railroad you into the clearly inferior
 Deutsche Boerse  transaction without all the information you need
in order to make an informed decision as the ultimate owners of
NYSE Euronext. Demand of your board that they meet with us.”  Splitting Up  Rich Adamonis, an NYSE Euronext spokesman, declined to
comment. Naomi Kim of Deutsche Boerse declined to comment.  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would break up NYSE Euronext,
with Nasdaq OMX taking the stock and options trading and the
listings businesses. ICE would keep the Liffe futures markets.  In the letter, Nasdaq OMX and ICE cited their higher price
per share, cost synergies and a $350 million reverse break-up
fee. The companies said the regulatory execution risk that the
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  board cited as a reason for their rejection is a
“red herring.” Deutsche Boerse approvals will take months
after the deal is complete, they wrote. They urged shareholders
to ask the board why it is rushing to have them approve a
“high-risk, low-value transaction,” without more information.  “NYSE Euronext management is attempting to divert
attention from its own challenging regulatory approvals by
rushing you through the stockholder approval process,” Nasdaq
OMX and ICE wrote. “NYSE Euronext stockholders are being asked
to take a leap of faith by voting for the proposed Deutsche
Boerse transaction on July 7.”  Deutsche Boerse shareholders have to vote on the deal to
purchase NYSE Euronext by July 13 given that the deal was
announced on Feb. 15, according to a May 4 regulatory filing,
which cited the German Takeover Act. Shares amounting to 50
percent ownership of NYSE Euronext must be voted in favor of the
bid, while Deutsche Boerse must win 75 percent support from its
owners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  