-- 
Nasdaq OMX, ICE Urge NYSE Shareholders to Demand Board Meeting

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-05-09T13:53:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nasdaq-omx-ice-urge-shareholders-of-nyse-to-demand-board-listen-to-offer.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  told  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  shareholders
they should demand their board meet with the two companies
before the July 7 vote on a merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)   NYSE Euronext owners of record as of today will be eligible
to approve or reject the Deutsche Boerse all-stock offer, valued
at $37.88 a share as of 9:18 a.m. New York time. Nasdaq OMX and
ICE urged shareholders to tell the board, which has rejected the
offer twice in the last month, to meet with the companies’
executives because their deal is superior.  NYSE Euronext and  Frankfurt ’s Deutsche Boerse agreed in
February to a merger that would create the world’s largest
exchange operator. The board rejected the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer,
worth $41.95 a share, saying it declined to meet with the chief
executive officers because the unsolicited deal would lead to
too much debt and regulatory opposition.  “The NYSE Euronext board has rushed to its own judgment
without a willingness to consider the facts available to them,”
New York-based Nasdaq OMX and Atlanta’s ICE wrote. ‟Don’t let
them railroad you into the clearly inferior Deutsche Boerse
transaction without all the information you need in order to
make an informed decision as the ultimate owners of NYSE
Euronext. Demand of your board that they meet with us.”  The Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal would break up NYSE Euronext,
with Nasdaq OMX taking the stock and options trading and the
listings businesses, while ICE would keep  futures markets .  In the letter, Nasdaq OMX and ICE cited their higher price
per share, cost synergies and a $350 million reverse break-up
fee. The companies said the regulatory execution risk that the
NYSE Euronext board cited as a reason for their rejection is a
“red herring.” Deutsche Boerse approvals will take months
after the deal is complete, they wrote.  “NYSE Euronext management is attempting to divert
attention from its own challenging regulatory approvals by
rushing you through the stockholder approval process,” Nasdaq
OMX and ICE wrote. “NYSE Euronext stockholders are being asked
to take a leap of faith by voting for the proposed Deutsche
Boerse transaction on July 7.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in  New York  at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 