-- 
New York Startups Rise With Finance Talent

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-05-09T16:04:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/new-york-startups-rise-with-wall-street-talent-bondage-earrings.html
Divya Gugnani, co-founder of fashion
 website  Send The Trend, gathered employees in a New York
conference room smelling faintly of garlic to talk about the
company’s latest hit: bondage earrings.  The seven-month-old company, which markets jewelry and
other accessories based on subscriber tastes, had promoted its
black leather earrings with a blog entry featuring Fergie from
the Black Eyed Peas and singer Taylor Momsen wrapped in studded
leather. The result: Sales spiked.  “The more there’s intrigue, the more clicks,” said
Gugnani, a 34-year-old who worked as an investment banker at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and venture capitalist for FirstMark
Capital LLC before Send The Trend.  Gugnani is part of a growing community of entrepreneurs in
New York, which is gaining ground on traditional leaders Silicon
Valley and  Boston  in creating new companies. The number of
startups is climbing with many of the businesses built on the
region’s traditional strengths in finance, fashion and media.  In 2010, there were 350 venture investments totaling $1.88
billion in the New York area, up from 254 deals worth $1.49
billion a year earlier, according to the  National Venture
Capital Association . Though Silicon Valley and New England
remain larger with $8.51 billion and $2.54 billion respectively,
New York has had stronger growth rates for the past three years.  “You have the basic building blocks for entrepreneurial
activity,” said  Mark Heesen , president of the NVCA. “Good
lawyers, good accountants,  office space . You have a lifestyle
entrepreneurs like. The culture, the education levels. All of
those things have come together.”  Foursquare and Gilt  Among New York’s more established startups are Foursquare
Labs Inc., which makes location applications for iPhones and
other mobile devices; Knewton Inc., an online education company;
and SecondMarket Holdings Inc., which was founded by former
investment banker Barry Silbert and lets investors trade shares
in private companies such as Facebook Inc. and Twitter Inc.  Gilt Groupe Inc., a New York-based online retailer that
offers members discounts on designer brands, said today that it
raised $138 million from Softbank Corp. and other investors.
 Huffington Post , the New York-based media website, agreed to be
acquired by  AOL Inc. (AOL)  for $315 million in February.  Rising unemployment and the  Wall Street  crash may be
contributing to the startup trend. College graduates may have a
harder time finding jobs in finance, consulting and other
sectors, channeling more talent into new ventures, said Gugnani.  Opportunity Cost  “You’re seeing a real shift in people’s decision making,”
she said. “While a lot of corporate jobs have dried up because
of the economy, you’re seeing more and more people plunge into
entrepreneurship. Because, at the end of the day, the
opportunity cost is so much lower. They can either graduate
college and not get a job and sit around, or they can start a
business.”  There’s also a crop of  New York  entrepreneurs that have
experience. Many have founded companies before, learning lessons
from past recessions and businesses that were sold or went bust,
said Brian Hirsch, co-founder of GSA Venture Partners, a
 venture-capital  firm based in the city that focuses on
investments in early stage startups.  “The New York area in general is going through an
innovation renaissance,” Hirsch said. “When it comes to
technology, you’re seeing revolutionary changes to a lot of the
major industries that are based in the city: financial services
or the media business, changes in publishing. Pretty much any
major industry that would be based in New York, which has had a
big impact on the economy, is being turned upside down.”  Serial Entrepreneurs  Dennis Crowley, founder and CEO of Foursquare, had already
sold one business to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  before starting his current
venture. He’s weathered the booms and busts in New York since
the first tech bubble in 1999 when he was working for a firm
that developed applications for Palm Pilots.  “It’s happening again here,” Crowley said. “1999, 2005,
2009 -- it’s almost like third time’s a charm. I feel like I
didn’t have anyone to help me last time.”  Today, Crowley said, founders from startups in the city
swap advice and more established players make themselves
available to new companies.  Knewton, which competes with the Washington Post Co.’s
Kaplan education unit, was the second startup for Jose Ferreira,
a Harvard Business School grad who had previously worked at
Kaplan and Goldman Sachs. Ferreira said that while there’s a
shortage of good engineering talent across the board, advances
in technology and the overall increase in computer engineers in
the last decade have put the spotlight on industry talent.  Send The Trend  “New York back in 2000, 2001 was not a great place to
start a technology company, and that has changed a lot,” said
Ferreira. “You’re seeing more and more startups that are
revolutionizing a particular industry. That industry expertise
becomes more important than hiring a bunch of hackers. The Bay
Area will always be better for the latter because they get the
best engineers from all over the world, but New York has an
incredible advantage in the former.”  Gugnani is on her second startup too. The  Cornell
University  and Harvard Business School graduate began  Behind the
Burner  while still at FirstMark. Eventually, the business, which
creates instructional online cooking videos, became a full-time
job and she left finance.  Gugnani didn’t take a paycheck for more than two years at
Behind the Burner though and had to curtail the shopping habits
she’d gotten into as an investment banker. That gave her the
idea for Send The Trend: Let women without a lot of money get
customized recommendations, like they have a personal shopper at
 Bergdorf Goodman  or  Saks Fifth Avenue .  Garlic Bread, Pizza  “When I was a woman who worked in finance, I could go to
Bergdorf, Saks and say, ‘Hey, I need a dress for a holiday
party,’ and the salesperson would help me,” Gugnani said. “It
changed my entire shopping experience, and I was now totally on
a budget.”  Send The Trend is based in a sixth-floor Manhattan loft
near the city’s Garment District. One co-founder, Christian
Siriano, who won the fashion reality series “ Project Runway ,”
lives a few blocks away; the third is retail veteran Mariah
Chase. The smell of garlic bread and pizza wafts through from a
restaurant downstairs.  The company, which went live Oct. 4, sells branded
accessories sourced from designers with all products at a flat
$29.95 rate including free shipping. Users take a survey to
determine their style preferences and get recommendations by e-
mail. Members can buy or decline a recommended item. If they do
nothing, they’re charged $29.95 and get a credit for a year.  Payoff?  The company has drawn more than 30,000 subscribers, though
Gugnani won’t disclose specific numbers. The service was
mentioned on the “Today” show in December, which overwhelmed
the website and caused it to crash seven times in one day.  Send The Trend raised $3 million in new financing last week
from Battery Ventures and smaller investors, the company said.
Gugnani said her goal is to get the company to profitability and
hasn’t focused much beyond that.  Some in New York startup circles including Gugnani said
there are concerns the growth in venture deals may not pay off.
The region hasn’t had the same kind of initial public offerings
that provide paydays for venture investors as Silicon Valley and
 New England . For example, RPX Corp., a San Francisco patent-
buying firm, and Zipcar Inc., the car-sharing service based in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts , have gone public this year.  Gugnani said there’s an influx of  seed capital  in New York
that makes it increasingly easy for early-stage companies to get
a few hundred thousand dollars in initial capital. Often the
businesses give up the mentoring available from traditional seed
funds for easy cash, she said.  Easy Money?  “You’re getting so many entrepreneurs in the market, and a
lot of them are first-time entrepreneurs and they’re not as
savvy at understanding what are the levers that can move the
needle for them,” Gugnani said. “They’re not having trouble
getting a few hundred thousand dollars, but we’ll see what
happens when they need to get a few million dollars.”  Gugnani is a mentor at  The Founder Institute , a group that
matches startups with experienced CEOs and helps provide
feedback and training to fledgling businesses.  Ben Leher, an entrepreneur who manages a startup investment
fund, has also seen easy cash going to early-stage companies in
New York. Bigger venture-capital funds that aren’t finding
enough later-stage companies to invest in and funds outside the
technology industry are crowding out smaller funds like his by
raising the price of the initial rounds of investment and funds
businesses that may not have workable business models, he said.  Transformational Company  “In early stage, there’s too much money,” said Leher, who
founded the online recommendation service  Thrillist . “That’s,
in some capacity, dumb money.”  Rising venture investments have fueled concerns of a bubble
nationwide, as the valuations for companies such as Facebook and
the social-buying service Groupon Inc. surge. Total venture
capital spent in the U.S. rose 19 percent last year to $21.8
billion, the biggest increase in at least five years, according
to the NVCA.  In New York, the number of startups is on the rise. The
question now is whether they can come of age, said GSA’s Hirsch.  “The one thing we’re missing in New York is a big,
transformational company,” he said. “We don’t have Facebook or
Google or Microsoft or Amazon. Hopefully, that will happen over
the next five-to-ten years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  