-- 
New Zealand’s Spending, Housing Data Add to Case for Recovery

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-05-10T02:24:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/new-zealand-card-spending-rises-a-second-month-after-quake-1-.html
New Zealand ’s consumer purchases on
electronic cards at retail outlets rose for a second month in
April as the decline in  house prices  eased, adding to signs the
economy may be recovering from February’s deadly earthquake.  The value of transactions on debit, credit and store cards
rose 1.5 percent last month, following a revised 1.6 percent
gain in March,  Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today.
House prices in April fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, less
than the 2 percent drop in March, Quotable Value New Zealand
said in a separate report.  New Zealand’s economic growth will likely recover in the
second half after a “flat to slightly negative” first quarter,
the  Treasury Department  said April 2, assessing the impact of a
Feb. 22 earthquake in Christchurch that killed more than 170
people. Demand in other regions is recovering, with business
confidence rising to its highest level in 17 months, Bank of New
Zealand Ltd. said yesterday, citing a survey of 314 firms.  “Evidence is growing that  consumer spending  may finally be
showing signs of life,” said Sharon Zollner, an economist at
ANZ National Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “To see a marked and more
sustained pick-up in retail spending would require a turnaround
in the housing market.”  New Zealand’s economy in the second half will be buoyed by
rising commodity prices and spending associated with the Rugby
World Cup finals the nation will host in September and October,
the  Treasury Department  said last month.  IMF Forecast  Growth in 2011 is likely to be about 1 percent, the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its annual  Article IV  review
of New Zealand published today. New Zealand’s gross domestic
product expanded 1.5 percent in 2010.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell after the IMF said the nation’s
currency was overvalued by as much as 20 percent. The local
currency fell to 79.12 U.S. cents at 12:45 p.m. in Wellington,
from 79.55 cents late yesterday in  New York .  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard on April 28 kept the
official cash rate unchanged at a record-low 2.5 percent. Twelve
of 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News immediately before
that decision forecast the rate would be unchanged until 2012.
Five expected a rate increase before Dec. 31.  The earthquake has increased costs for the government,
which will confirm “a very large deficit” for the year ending
June 30, Finance Minister Bill English said today. The deficit
in the nine months through March was NZ$12.41 billion ($9.9
billion), the Treasury said today.  May Budget  The May 19 budget “will also confirm significant
improvements in the fiscal position over the next few years,
before we return to surplus and start repaying debt,” English
said in an e-mailed  statement .  Card spending gains were reflected by all six industry
groups rising, today’s report showed. The measure isn’t adjusted
for inflation and may be affected by price changes.  Spending on  consumer goods  such as food and liquor, which
make up more than a third of the total, increased 2.3 percent
from March. Hospitality purchases rose 2.4 percent. Spending on
clothing and durable goods such as appliances and furniture also
gained. Fuel purchases rose 1 percent.  Spending on all purchases, including non-retail services
such as medical fees, rose 1.7 percent from March.  “Property values have now been relatively stable for
several months after falling slightly throughout most of 2010,”
Jonno Ingerson, research director at Wellington-based Quotable
Value, said in an e-mailed statement. “The gap between this
year and last year is closing in many areas.”  Prices in Auckland, the nation’s most populous city, were
0.5 percent lower than in April last year. The valuation agency
doesn’t publish an index that allows monthly comparisons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  