-- 
NFL Club Owners Seek Reversal of Lockout Order in Labor Fight With Players

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-05-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nfl-owners-ask-u-s-appeals-court-to-reverse-lockout-lift-order.html
National Football League  team owners,
criticizing the players’ union for disbanding in the midst of a
labor dispute, asked an appeals court to reverse a federal
judge’s order to end a lockout of the players.  The owners, in a filing yesterday with the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in St. Louis, said U.S. District Judge Susan Richard Nelson had no jurisdiction to issue her April 25 order and that
the dispute should be resolved by the  National Labor Relations
Board . They called the disbanding of the NFL Players Association
“a tactical ploy” to increase bargaining leverage by using the
courts.  “Repeated statements from plaintiffs and other leaders of
the NFLPA indicate that the disclaimer was not made in good
faith,” the owners’ attorneys said.  The NFL imposed the lockout after collective-bargaining
talks failed in March and the players association announced it
would no longer function as a union. Ten players sued March 11,
accusing the league of violating federal antitrust laws.  The factions disagree on how the 32-team league and the
players should split $9 billion in annual revenue, on extending
the regular season from 16 to 18 games, on a salary cap for
first-year players and on health care for the athletes.  With a lockout, the athletes don’t get paid and can’t
practice. The NFL’s teams can’t sign or trade them.  Both sides are exempt from federal antitrust laws as long
as they are engaged in collective bargaining. The players’
disavowal of their union status enabled them to accuse the NFL
in court of anticompetitive business practices.  Disclaimer’s Validity  The validity of that disclaimer should be decided by the
NLRB, the league’s attorneys said.  George Atallah, a spokesman for the players, didn’t reply
to an e-mail seeking comment yesterday. The players have until
May 20 to file their response.  The National Hockey League yesterday asked the appeals
court for permission to file a friend-of-the-court brief
supporting team owners in the NFL case.  “The NHL has a direct interest in ensuring that the
determination of terms and conditions of employment for NHL
players is the product of a bona fide labor process rather than
the ‘lever’ of potential antitrust liability,” attorneys for
the hockey league said in their filing.  That league too questioned the players’ ability to disclaim
their union and then file suit seeking injunctive relief.  NHL Argument  “The NHL respectfully submits that this cannot be the
state of the law,” its lawyers wrote.  The court is scheduled to hear NFL player and owner
arguments in  St. Louis  on June 3.  The lockout remains temporarily in place by order of the
appeals court. That panel hasn’t ruled on the owners’ request
for an order allowing them to maintain the lockout until the
judges decide the appeal.  The case is Brady v. NFL, 0:11-cv-00639, U.S. District
Court, District of Minnesota ( St. Paul ). The appeal is Brady v.
National Football League, 11-01898, U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Eighth Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  