-- 
NFL Players Poised to Cut Alimony, Making Wives Industry Dispute Victims

-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-05-09T04:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nfl-players-poised-to-cut-alimony-making-wives-industry-dispute-victims.html
Tina Julian, a 33-year-old nurse
in  San Diego , says she may not be able to afford child care
if National Football League owners and players can’t agree
how to share more than $9 billion in annual revenue.  Julian’s concern stems from the child support she gets
from her 2-year-old son’s father, New York Jets defensive
back Antonio Cromartie, who might be without a paycheck if
a new labor contract isn’t reached.  “The money I get from him is definitely important,”
Julian said, declining to divulge how much she gets monthly
from Cromartie, a free agent who was paid $1.7 million last
season. “Something would have to change.”  Cromartie, who according to the  New York Post  has nine
children from eight women, is among the players who may be
without work because of the NFL’s inability to reach a
collective bargaining agreement with its union. National
Basketball Association players may face a similar situation
when their contract expires in two months.  NFL and NBA players are lining up to get child support
and alimony payments lowered to reflect what would be
reduced incomes should their leagues shut down, said
attorney Howard Rudolph of  Rudolph & Associates LLP  in  West
Palm Beach ,  Florida .  Rudolph, whose office is decorated with sports
memorabilia from his athlete clients, said he’s working on
modification requests for NFL players that he wouldn’t
identify. It’s the same move Wall Street executives made
when they lost jobs or income during the recession, says
Raoul Felder, a divorce lawyer whose clients have included
former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani and the ex-wife of
basketball player Jason Kidd.  “The NFL is an industry, and if the industry is in
trouble, the men can’t meet their obligations,” Felder,
76, said in a telephone interview. “The only thing to do
is file for modification.”  Athletes, Bankers  Cromartie’s agent, Jason Chinn, vice president of
football operations at  Westlake Village , California-based
Pro Tect Management, didn’t return voice-mail messages left
at his office or an e-mail received by Beth Acker, the
company’s executive assistant. Julian said in an e-mail
that Cromartie hasn’t mentioned the possibility of not
being able to pay the support. Cromartie represented
himself in Julian’s paternity case, according to court
records. Julian’s attorney, Andy Cook, didn’t return
messages left at his office.  By Felder’s measure, a top-paid athlete is no
different than George Zahringer, a former managing director
at Bear Stearns Cos. After losing his job, Zahringer urged
a judge in 2009 to cancel an order that increased his
alimony to $87,000 a month from $25,000, including
retroactive payments. Richard Albrecht, an attorney for
Zahringer in the case, declined to comment.  Lockout Picture  The NFL in March locked out its players, who earn on
average about $1.8 million a year. Billy Hunter, the
executive director of the  union  that represents players in
the NBA, where the average salary is almost $6 million, has
said he expects owners to impose a lockout when their  labor
contract  expires on June 30.  Hunter’s union distributed a 56-page lockout survival
guide to its more than 400 members that includes money-
saving tips such as refinancing mortgages and turning off
lights at home. Page 21 is devoted to alimony and child
support, issues that affect as much as 80 percent of
professional athletes, says Frank Brickowski, 51, a former
NBA player and divorced father of one who is now a regional
director for the National Basketball Players Association.  Brickowski has urged active players to get prenuptial
agreements so that child support and alimony don’t become
issues. His campaign has been helped, Brickowski said, by
the popularity of  Kanye West ’s “Gold Digger,” a song
about the perils of relationships with women more
interested in money than love.  Kemp’s Kids  Brickowski once was a teammate of Shawn Kemp, who was
the subject of a Sports Illustrated cover story that said
he had seven children with multiple women. According to
Brickowski, on trips to  Los Angeles  there would be three
women sitting behind the basket with children, all of them
Kemp’s.  Kemp’s agent, Tony Dutt, didn’t return phone calls and
e-mails seeking comment. Colin Bryant, Dutt’s partner at
Dutt Sports Services Inc., in a telephone interview said
the two have recently discussed modification requests
“extensively.”  Kemp in 2005 told the Seattle Times that he never
missed a child-support payment.  Alimony Modification  The National Center for Health Statistics said it
doesn’t calculate a nationwide U.S.  divorce rate .  “I tell the players that in divorce, on average, the
woman gets 70 percent of a man’s wealth,” Brickowski said,
without giving a basis for the figure. “That gets their
attention. But not as much as Kanye.”  Keith Glass, 58, an agent whose clients have included
seven-time NBA champion Robert Horry, said players aren’t
the only ones who feel the financial blow of a labor
stoppage. Contracts can’t be signed, preventing agents like
Glass, who has divorced three times, from collecting
commissions.  Glass said he filed an alimony modification request
for himself during the 1998-99 NBA lockout. He said he won
a 40 percent reduction, while unable to recall the dollar
amounts.  “There will be filings, all right,” Glass said.
“You can bet it’s already being done by agents.”  First Paychecks  Big money will be at stake for players like Cromartie.
The 27-year-old got a $500,000 advance of his $1.7 million
salary from the Jets to settle child-support matters. He
has been among the players to criticize the NFL and players
association for not reaching an agreement.  “How abt the owners and the NFLPA get ur behinds back
to the table and talk it out there,” he said on Twitter a
week after the owners locked out players on March 12.  None of the more than 15 NFL, NBA and National Hockey
League agents contacted would say whether they were helping
prepare, or had helped prepare, modification requests for
clients.  Under terms of their labor contracts, NFL players
don’t receive their first paycheck for the 2011 season
until September and NBA players until November. Rudolph
said applications need to be made in advance to ensure that
any change coincides with the income cutoff.  Other Income  Not all athletes consider modification.  Oakland
Raiders  running back Darren McFadden, who has three
children with three women, has enough money to pay his
support even in the event of a lockout, said his agent, Ian
Greengross. McFadden in 2008 signed a six-year, $60 million
contract that included a guaranteed $26 million.  “Unless they raise his child support to $20,000 a
month per kid it won’t be a problem,” Greengross said in a
telephone interview.  Julie Hannaford, a Toronto-based attorney who
represented the ex-wife of former NHL player Tie Domi in
their divorce, says applying for modification doesn’t mean
a reduction will be granted.  Judges often first require the athlete to shed assets,
including real estate, cars or even championship rings, she
said. Canadian law says a divorced athlete with two
children being  paid  $9 million a year would pay about
$105,000 a month to his former wife, while one in the same
situation earning $1 million would pay less than $12,000,
she said.  “Most players are so well managed that they’ve got
enough money put away to shelter against lockout day,”
Hannaford said.  Health Insurance  There’s more for a judge to consider than just no
paychecks, says Peter Kuperstein, 41, a divorce lawyer and
partner in the Boston-based firm of Prince Lobel, which has
represented pro athletes he wouldn’t identify.  An athlete’s out-of-pocket expenses for things such as
health insurance rise during a lockout, since teams aren’t
paying, Kuperstein said. According to the trade association
representing NFL players, a player’s health insurance
coverage can run more than $2,000 a month.  “The likelihood is that a majority of these players
are the ones maintaining health insurance for children and,
potentially, their ex-wives,” Kuperstein said.  While athletes have agents, lawyers and unions looking
out for their financial well-being, the ex-wives and
mothers might not. Any court-approved modification may have
dire consequences for them, Felder said.  “It falls like a ton of bricks,” he said.  As for Julian, she’s been saving a portion of her
paycheck and tax refund the past few years. There are any
numbers of reasons why a child-support payment might not
arrive when it’s supposed to, Julian said in a telephone
interview.  “It takes money to raise a kid,” she said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  