-- 
Nigerian Opposition Party Challenges President Goodluck Jonathan’s Victory

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-05-09T16:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nigerian-opposition-party-challenges-president-goodluck-jonathan-s-victory.html
The party of the runner-up in
 Nigeria ’s presidential election filed a petition at the
electoral tribunal challenging incumbent Goodluck Jonathan’s
victory last month in Africa’s biggest oil producer.  “The results announced to the world were manipulated,
where the elections took place, between the polling units and
the collation centers,” Tony Momoh, national chairman of the
Congress for Progressive Change, said today in an e-mailed
statement. The party asked the tribunal yesterday to cancel
results in 24 of Nigeria’s 36 states due to alleged electoral
malpractice.  Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River
delta region, defeated former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , a
northern Muslim, in the April 16 vote by 57 percent to 31
percent, according to the  Independent National Electoral
Commission . Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party  has won all the
presidential elections since 1999, when the West African nation
returned to civilian rule.  Local and international observers described the April vote
as Nigeria’s fairest in more than a decade.  Jonathan’s victory triggered riots across the north that
killed more than 600 people and led to the burning of churches,
mosques and homes, the Kaduna-based Civil Rights Congress said
April 25.  Post-Election Violence  At least 75,000 people were forced to flee their homes as a
result of the violence, the National Emergency Management Agency
said on April 28. About 55,000 of them are in camps for the
displaced, while the remaining 20,000 have been taken in by
family members or friends, according to the agency.  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation with about 150
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Christian
south and a north dominated by Muslims. While Buhari won all 12
northern states, Jonathan took 23 of 24 central and southern
states.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Paris-based Total, Hague-based Shell, Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California , and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
of Rome run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
West African nation’s oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net . 