-- 
U.S. Northeast Wins Biggest Part of Florida’s Rejected Fast-Train Grants

-- B y   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-05-09T13:14:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/northeast-wins-biggest-share-of-rail-grants-florida-rejected.html
The U.S. government awarded $795
million to increase rail speeds between Boston and Washington,
the largest share of the more than $2 billion in high-speed rail
grants that  Florida  rejected in February.  Amtrak won $450 million, the U.S. Department of
Transportation said in an e-mail statement today. The national
passenger rail service got money to increase capacity and
improve trip times between Philadelphia and New York. These
funds will allow Amtrak to start bringing trains that can run
220 miles per hour to the Northeast Corridor.  “Amtrak made money last year, ridership was up last year -
- they’re providing a good service,” Transportation Secretary
Ray LaHood said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. The
investment in infrastructure and equipment “will make Amtrak a
better system.”  While Amtrak’s  net loss  widened to $1.31 billion for the
year ended September 2010, the Acela Express line that runs
between Boston and Washington had revenue that exceeded
operating expenses by 42 percent.  Trains between  New York  and Philadelphia will run as fast
as 160 mph, Al Engel, Amtrak’s vice president for high-speed
rail, said in an interview. Speeds on that segment will increase
in three to five years, LaHood said on MSNBC today.  The U.S. expects Amtrak’s ridership to rise this year,
LaHood said on Bloomberg Television today.  High-speed rail projects will create thousands of U.S.
jobs, LaHood said.  Midwest,  California   Midwestern states got $404.1 million and California won
$300 million toward the 800-mile line it plans to build from  San
Francisco  to  Los Angeles . The department allocated $336.2
million for California and the Midwest to buy American-built
rail cars and locomotives.  “I’m encouraged by those awards,” Thomas Hart, vice
president for government affairs and general counsel for the
Washington-based  U.S. High Speed Rail Association , said in a
telephone interview. “The Northeast Corridor had been lagging
but now it is their turn” for significant funding.  He also praised the award of $196.5 million to  Michigan  to
bring trains that can run 110 mph between Chicago and Detroit,
reducing trip times by half an hour.  The grant “will bring jobs, it will bring innovation to
the depressed Michigan market, and it will feed into the Chicago
hub that will be the centerpiece” for high-speed rail service
in the Midwest, he said.  Orlando to Tampa  Twenty-four states, the  District of Columbia  and Amtrak
submitted more than 90 applications by April 4 for a share of
the high-speed rail grants Florida rejected.  Republican Governor  Rick Scott  returned the $2.4 billion
Florida had been awarded to build a new high-speed rail line
between Orlando and Tampa.  The April 15 budget deal between Congress and President
 Barack Obama  to fund the government through September 30 cut
$400 million from the rail account, leaving the Transportation
Department with $2 billion to redistribute.  Congress and President Barack Obama have been debating his
plan to connect 80 percent of the U.S. population to fast trains
within 25 years. The high-speed rail program has received $10.1
billion since its creation in 2009. Obama wants to spend  another
$53 billion  over the next six years, while Republicans in
Congress are trying to eliminate the program.  Wisconsin , which returned $810 million last fall after
Republican Scott Walker was elected governor, had sought $150
million to improve an existing line between Chicago and
Milwaukee. It got nothing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Caruso in  Washington  at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn in Washington at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 