-- 
North, South Sudan to Withdraw Unauthorized Forces From Abyei, UN Reports

-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-05-09T09:30:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/north-south-sudan-to-withdraw-unauthorized-forces-from-abyei-un-reports.html
Northern and  Southern Sudan  agreed to
withdraw “all unauthorized forces” from the disputed region of
Abyei by May 17 after clashes this month killed at least 14
people, the  United Nations Mission in Sudan  said.  Officials from the two sides decided to begin the pullout
tomorrow during talks in Kadugli, the capital of Southern
Kordofan state, north of Abyei, the UN said.  “The meeting agreed that both parties will create a
conducive environment by de-escalating tensions,” the UN said
in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Both President Umar al-Bashir’s government in Khartoum and
the authorities in Southern  Sudan , which is due to become
independent on July 9, claim Abyei. Clashes since Southern Sudan
voted for secession in January have threatened to spark violence
between the two sides, which fought a two-decade civil war that
ended with a  peace agreement  in 2005.  “Abyei is on the brink of dangerous new conflict that
risks escalation of violent confrontation between security
forces and other armed proxies from North and South Sudan,” the
Brussels-based  International Crisis Group  said yesterday in an
e-mailed statement. The dispute over the status of Abyei “is
one of the most intractable in Sudan,” it said.  The commander of the 10,000-member UN peacekeeping force in
Sudan, Major-General Moses Obi, said in March that the two sides
were building up military forces in Abyei with weapons including
rocket-propelled grenades and vehicles mounted with machine
guns.  Vote Postponed  The region is disputed by the Ngok Dinka, the residents of
the area who consider themselves southerners, and Misseriya
nomads who herd their cattle south to Abyei in the dry season
and are supported by al-Bashir’s government.  Abyei was scheduled to vote in January on whether to join
the south or remain a special administrative region in the
north. The referendum was postponed indefinitely because of
disagreements over who was eligible to vote.  The Ngok Dinka said they alone should be allowed to vote.
The  Permanent Court of Arbitration  in  The Hague , in a 2009
ruling, set Abyei’s borders to the area around Ngok Dinka
settlements, largely excluding the pro-northern Misseriya ethnic
group.  The Misseriya say that as seasonal inhabitants of Abyei,
they should also have the right to vote.  Violence Increases  Clashes and tension between northern and Southern Sudan
over Abyei have escalated since fighting in January killed at
least 70 people, according to Southern Sudan’s army, while five
more died on March 22 in an attack on a village, according to
Abyei’s chief administrator, Deng Arop Kuol.  Fighting in the area three years ago between the armies of
the Khartoum government and Southern Sudan killed 89 people and
forced more than 90,000 people to flee their homes, according to
the UN.  Al-Bashir’s  National Congress Party  may not recognize
Southern Sudan’s independence if its constitution claims the
disputed region of Abyei as part of the south, the state-run SMC
news agency said on April 28, citing senior NCP official Al-
Derdiri Mohamed Ahmed.  The Permanent Court of Arbitration set key  oil fields ,
including Heglig and Bamboo, outside of the Abyei region. Those
fields and Diffra in Abyei are run by the Greater Nile Petroleum
Operating Co., which is 40 percent owned by Beijing-based China
National Petroleum Corp. Abyei produces less than 2,500 barrels
a day, according to Sudan’s Oil Ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 