-- 
NRG’s $7 Billion Plan Relies on Lenders Loosening Grip: Corporate Finance

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-05-09T16:45:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/nrg-s-7-billion-plan-relies-on-lenders-loosening-grip-corporate-finance.html
NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) ’s plan to refinance $7
billion of debt will require lenders to loosen their claim on the
largest U.S. independent power producer’s cash that may allow 
it to finance a stock buyback.  The transaction proposed by Princeton, New Jersey-based NRG
in a May 5 regulatory filing would replace leveraged loans and
 junk bonds  with new debt while relaxing covenants restricting
investments and mandating the use of excess cash flow for senior
secured fixed-income repayments.  NRG is seeking to further reward shareholders following a
23 percent rally in the company’s stock price this year. After
the transaction, NRG’s debt to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization would increase to 4.7 times from
3.8 for the trailing 12-month period,  Andy DeVries , an analyst
at independent fixed-income research firm CreditSights Inc. in
New York, said in a May 5 report.  “Typically, any time shareholders win bondholders lose,”
said Travis Miller, a utility analyst for Morningstar Inc. in
 Chicago . “If NRG were able to refinance and loosen the
restrictions on the bonds that would be a benefit to
shareholders.”  NRG plans to raise $1.6 billion through a term loan due in
seven years and $2.3 billion from a new revolving credit line,
Chief Financial Officer Christian Schade said in a May 5
conference call with analysts and investors to discuss first-
quarter earnings. NRG will “simplify” its capital structure
and delay debt maturities by also refinancing its senior secured
notes maturing in 2016 and 2017, the regulatory filing shows.  ‘Ultimate Goal’  “The ultimate goal of this program is to put us in a
position where we have the opportunity to use a good chunk of
the company’s excess liquidity to increase the stake of the
company’s existing shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  David Crane  said during the May 5 conference call.  NRG, which has the lowest leverage among its peers, had
$2.7 billion in cash as of March 31. The anticipated jump in the
ratio takes into account a 20 percent decline in Ebitda, DeVries
wrote.  The company’s leverage compares with 8.9 times at Dynegy
Inc., the third-largest U.S. independent power producer that
spurned takeover offers from  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and Icahn
Enterprises LP, 6.7 times at Houston-based GenOn Energy Inc. and
6 times at Calpine Corp., which exited bankruptcy in 2008,
according to CreditSights.  Boosting Cash  Since emerging from bankruptcy in December 2003, NRG
increased cash on its balance sheet 10-fold to $2.95 billion at
the end of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company said it repurchased $130 million of shares during
the first quarter and plans an additional $50 million this year.  “As part of this refinancing, we expect to replace
restrictive covenant packages with a more flexible structure
allowing us to return value to shareholders,” Schade said on
the call. “Our primarily goal in this process would be to
eliminate investment basket restrictions,  cash flow  sweep
restrictions and mirror the covenant packages currently in the
indentures governing our most recent bond issuances and
specifically those in 2018, 2019 and 2020.”  All of NRG’s outstanding debt will have a common covenant
package after the transaction, Schade said.  NRG’s cash declined by $240 million during the first
quarter as it bought back shares, paid down $149 million of its
term loan and redeemed $945 million of senior notes due 2014 at
102 cents on the dollar, according to the company.  Gas Prices   A drop in natural gas prices is driving competitors such as
Houston-based Dynegy to renegotiate debt to avoid a default.  “There’s no question that it’s a volatile commodity market
and we’re presently experiencing a tough cycle,”  Paul Patterson , a New York-based utility analyst at Glenrock
Associates LLC, said in an interview. “Anybody who is getting a
large amount of their money in sales in the wholesale market is
facing challenges from lower power prices.”  Natural gas, a plant fuel that helps set power prices, is
down about 70 percent from three years ago, Bloomberg data show.
It fell to $4.24 per million British thermal units in  New York 
Mercantile Exchange trading as of May 6, reversing three
consecutive weekly gains. Natural gas prices will climb to $4.75
by year-end and breach $5 in 2012, according to the median
forecast of 19 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Stock Rally  “Even in the currently subdued commodity price cycle, the
company is demonstrating a high-teen free cash flow yield,”
NRG’s Crane said. “As we go forward, we want to have the
ability to protect and enhance that yield, not only by
increasing free cash flow, but also by significantly reducing
the number of shares outstanding.”  NRG has 241 million of shares outstanding, giving the
company a market capitalization of $5.81 billion as of May 6,
Bloomberg data show. Since the record earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan  triggered a crisis in Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power station on March 11, NRG has rallied 22
percent to $24.09 on the New York Stock Exchange.  On April 19, NRG said it would write down about $481
million before taxes and cease investing in a $10 billion joint
venture with Toshiba Corp. to build two nuclear reactors in
 Texas .  “When NRG is looking at a multi-billion dollar investment
need for a new nuclear plant and then it decides to cancel that
construction project it frees up a lot of long-term cash,”
Morningstar’s Miller said in a telephone interview. “The
cancellation certainly improves near-term cash position.”  Long-Term Debt  NRG said it had $10.4 billion in long-term debt and funded
letters of credit as of March 31. It owes about $612 million on
a term loan due Feb. 1, 2013. The debt pays interest on the loan
at 1.75 percentage points more than the London interbank offered
rate, the company’s annual report shows. A $1 billion term loan
due Aug. 31, 2015, has a margin of 3.25 percentage points more
than Libor, a rate banks charge to lend to each other.  The company also has $800 million outstanding on a letter
of credit facility due 2015 and $500 on a loan due 2013, paying
the same  interest rates  with the term loans due on those dates,
the filings show.  Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley led banks in 2006 to
arrange the credit facility, according to Bloomberg data. The
loans also include an $875 million revolving  credit line  due
Aug. 31, 2015, according to company filings.  NRG’s $2.4 billion of 7.375 percent notes due 2016 rose
0.19 cent to 104.06 cents on the dollar after the company
announced its refinancing plan, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  ‘Potential Negative Impact’  The debt became callable at 103.69 cents in February,
Bloomberg data show. The call premium drops to 102.46 cents in
February 2012, to 101.23 cents a year later and to par in 2014.  NRG can’t redeem its $1.1 billion of 7.375 percent notes
maturing in 2017 until February, according to Bloomberg data.
The debt gained 1 cent to 105.75 cents on the dollar after the
refinancing announcement, according to Trace.  “We understand the obvious potential negative impact to
credit quality from the decision to replace restrictive
covenants with less onerous ones but we do not believe the move
represents a desire by management to operate the company with
more leverage,” DeVries of CreditSights said in the report.
“Should the market overact and sell off due to the news of a
less stringent covenant package, we would consider going long
the bonds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in New York at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  