-- 
Obama Needs Navy SEALs to Target Budget Next: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 1 5 8 ]   C h a r l e s   W .   S t e v e n s   [ ]
-- 
2011-05-09T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/obama-needs-navy-seals-to-target-budget-next-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Obama pulls another Osama. He signs
the orders. The operation succeeds. This time the target is
another great enemy: the federal debt.  Or so, at least, runs the national daydream.  That Americans indulge themselves in such quirky fantasies
reflects a desperation about reality. The reality is that in
domestic affairs, President  Barack Obama  moves not like a leader
who nailed  Osama bin Laden , but like a passive-aggressive drill
sergeant. He is tactical rather than strategic, partisan rather
than statesmanlike. He exploits outreach efforts by Republicans
to attack their vulnerabilities.  When he announced his new budget plan in April the
president wasted time attacking Republicans for helping
“billionaires and millionaires.” The Obama plan promised to
address the ratio of the national debt to the economy. But it
cynically postponed the start of that project to an election
year, 2014. Such details lent credence to House Speaker  John
Boehner ’s allegation that the plan amounts to “a political
broadside from our commander-in-chief.”  The problem, however, is greater than a specific executive.
 George W. Bush  too worked tactically, sacrificing a long-term
national commitment to reducing entitlements to a short-term
plan for election victory that included expanding Medicare to
cover  prescription drugs .  The fault in the system is structural and dates back to
1974. Before then, a president really could play the hero. He
could veto bills and also impound money already budgeted so that
it wasn’t spent. President  Lyndon Johnson  vetoed or impounded
billions, including planned spending by fellow Democrats on
housing, agriculture and highways.  Nixon’s Vetoes  Richard Nixon  vetoed, too, even plans that sounded
compelling, like one to help underfunded emergency rooms stay
open. Nixon also impounded money, taking glee in withholding
funds for laws Congress passed by overriding his veto, such as
the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.  Congress so resented Nixon’s aggressive budgeting that they
welcomed the opportunity to undermine him, and found a good one
in the Watergate scandal.  Exploiting Watergate-related hostility for the chief
executive, Congress in 1974 passed legislation that had little
to do with campaign finance, break-ins or Nixon’s character: the
Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act.  The  bill  confined presidential budget authority to a
“yes” or a veto of a budget. It severely curtailed impoundment
by the executive, gave more power to Congress, established new
committees, moved the fiscal calendar to October from July, and
created for legislators their own budget war department, the
 Congressional Budget Office .  ‘Nixon Was Right’  The legislation reached the Oval Office the summer when
Nixon was already on his way out. He signed the bill less than a
month before his resignation. Through staff, Nixon made his
skepticism clear. One official told the press that the law would
generate “congressional government -- and chaos.”  As historian  John Steele Gordon  has written, the outcome
suggests that gloomy aide had a point. Budgeting proved so
difficult in the 1980s that lawmakers began creating complex
automatic devices like the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings law of which
Obama’s “debt failsafe” mechanism is a descendant.  “Nixon was right,” a Wall Street Journal editorial said.
The very reliance upon such gizmos is a cop out; it’s like
ordering a drone to take out bin Laden and pretending a Navy
SEAL team isn’t needed.  Line-Item Veto  Lawmakers and the White House did manage to balance the
budget in the 1990s. But both branches understood that more was
necessary, which is why President  Bill Clinton  signed
legislation that gave the executive new impounding authority,
the line-item veto. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court struck down
that law in 1998.  President George W. Bush offered up another version of the
measure in 2006, but it didn’t make it through the Senate.
Meanwhile, the debt and the deficit mounted. In Congress’s view,
recessions nowadays may be addressed by only one of two
policies: spending or more spending.  In short, the chaos that the Nixon aide prophesied is here,
and postpones reform. Each day of postponement in turn makes
reform more expensive. Voters become more disillusioned, and
find themselves falling into those daydreams about SEALs who
slash budgets with their knives. Democrats fear trimming
entitlements. Republicans fear higher taxes. What both parties
overlook is that the disillusionment itself represents a bigger
threat than either entitlement cuts or tax increases.  Restoring Balance  Now is the time for  legislation  that can both restore the
executive’s budget power and withstand  Supreme Court  scrutiny.
Such a law needn’t make the president into a dictator. It need
merely restore the balance that existed before 1974.  There is a precedent for such a rebalancing: the 1921
Budget and Accounting Act passed after the spending excess of
World War I. Its impounding authority gave Presidents Warren Harding and  Calvin Coolidge  a tool to keep the budget in
surplus.  As for Obama and Republican fears, those fears may be
overrated. It’s possible that more authority will make any
president, right or left, less political, less nasty, more
thoughtful, and more forceful. That can also hold for Obama.
Give him the power to manage this crisis, and his response may
surprise us. It did in Abbottabad.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.) 