-- 
OCBC World’s Strongest Bank in Singapore as Canadians Dominate

-- B y   J o h n   J .   C u r r a n   a n d   Y o o l i m   L e e
-- 
2011-05-10T14:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/ocbc-world-s-strongest-bank-in-singapore-with-canadians-dominating-ranking.html
Ask David Conner, chief executive
officer of  Singapore ’s Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp., what makes
a world-class bank and he smiles and tells the story of how he
was hired. It was April 2002, and Singapore’s banks faced a
struggling economy, poor demand for credit and rising
competition from foreign lenders that had just won greater
access to the Singaporean market.  Conner, then 53, had taken charge of OCBC after 25 years as
an executive at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  divisions in Singapore, India and
Japan. When Conner -- who grew up in St. Louis -- sat down with
OCBC’s top directors, they told him they wanted him to make the
lender a world-class bank, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in
its June issue.  “What is a world-class bank to you?” Conner asked.  One board member responded, “You tell us.”  Conner worked up a presentation outlining his goals. Among
the high points: focus on the customer, establish a strong
capital base and minimize risks. He appears to have achieved
those goals. Based on its performance for the 2010 fiscal year,
OCBC, founded in 1932, ranks as the world’s strongest bank,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  OCBC is one of three Singaporean banks that make the top
six in the Bloomberg Markets ranking. The other country that’s
prominent on the list is  Canada .  National Bank of Canada (NA)  is No.
3, and the country has five banks in the top 20.  No. 2 is  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  of Sweden.  Size Overrated  Canada’s performance in the ranking “shows that size is
not everything in financial services,” says Louis Vachon, CEO
of National Bank.  Just three U.S. banks --  Fifth Third Bancorp (FITB)  (No. 7),
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  (No. 14) and Citigroup (No. 16) -- make the
top 20.  The ranking includes banks with at least $100 billion in
assets. It weighs and combines five criteria, including Tier 1
capital compared with risk-weighted assets; nonperforming assets
compared with total assets; and efficiency, a comparison of
costs against revenues.  Tier 1 capital includes a bank’s cash reserves, outstanding
common stock and some classes of preferred stock, all of which
combine to act as a shock absorber against losses when the
economy hits a rough patch.  “Singapore banks would score very high here largely
because, historically, the Monetary Authority of Singapore has
always required Singapore banks to keep more Tier 1 capital than
other banks,” Conner says.  DBS, UOB Also on List  The MAS is both the central bank and chief regulator of
Singapore’s financial system.  Singapore’s  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  ranks No. 5, while
 United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  is No. 6. OCBC and UOB shares led
Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times Index’s 0.6 percent advance
today. OCBC shares rose almost 1 percent to S$9.39 and UOB
shares gained 2.1 percent to S$19.38.  OCBC has operations in 15 countries, including a strong
presence in China,  Hong Kong , Indonesia, Malaysia and Taiwan. It
was founded by the Lee family, and their descendants are still
the biggest shareholders.  Billionaire Lee Seng Wee, 80, is a former chairman of the
bank and still sits on its board. His son, Lee Tih Shih, 47, is
also a board member.  Hugh Young is a Singapore-based managing director of
 Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd.  Aberdeen owns about 6
percent of OCBC and more than 4 percent of UOB. Young says he’s
not surprised that Singaporean banks score so highly on a global
ranking.  ‘Stupid Things’  “We are big holders of OCBC and UOB and have been for a
long time simply because they don’t do the stupid things Western
banks do,” says Young, who helps manage $70 billion in Asian
equities. “They don’t do things like lending 120 percent of the
value of a property to people without a job, and they don’t do
stupid things in the derivatives markets and proprietary
trading.”  Not all of the strongest banks are exemplars of smart
banking practices. No. 16 Citigroup was rescued by $45 billion
in U.S. Treasury loans and investments in 2008 after it was
deemed by the  Federal Reserve , the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Treasury to be “systemically important.” Its
stock has quadrupled since it hit its all-time low on March 5,
2009. At the end of last week Citi did a reverse split of its
shares, which raised the price ten-fold, to $44.16 at the close
of trading May 9.  Citi Recovery  “Citi is a much underappreciated recovery story,” says
Kevin Conn, an equities analyst and co-head of the financial
services research team at Boston-based  MFS Investment 
Management. “They overmedicated the balance sheet, raising too
much equity and setting up massive reserves. It’s a very strong
balance sheet at this point.”  All major banks march to the tune of the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, an arm of the Bank for International
Settlements, based in Basel, Switzerland. The committee issued
its first internationally agreed upon capital guidelines, known
as Basel I, in 1988. The early rules focused narrowly on banks’
credit risk: the possibility that borrowers might not pay back
their bank loans. The committee recommended that banks’ cash
reserves, common and preferred stock total at least 4 percent of
assets.  The rules changed in 2004 with the adoption by regulators
of Basel II, which set more-sophisticated guidelines for how to
assess and quantify the risk of a bank’s assets, much as a
modern blood test breaks down cholesterol into good HDL and
worrisome LDL.  Risk-Weighted Assets  Under the standard Basel II guidelines, just 35 percent of
a mortgage issued to a family with an excellent credit history
would be counted as a risk-weighted asset, while an investment
in a hedge fund would get counted for risk purposes at 400
percent of the amount invested.  Bank managements aim to keep their risk-weighted assets --
the bad cholesterol -- low because regulators insist that banks
hold precious capital, such as retained earnings, against it.  The 2008 to 2009 financial breakdown sent regulators
hurrying back to Basel to rewrite the rules one more time. Basel
III, whose basic outlines were approved in November, raises
requirements for Tier 1 capital to 6 percent starting in 2015.
Basel III also phases in extra capital cushions for very large
banks, which could take the total capital requirement north of
10 percent.  Full implementation of Basel III will be phased in over six
years to assuage fears by both bankers and regulators that the
new capital rules would suppress lending if implemented too
quickly.  Warning Labels  “Broad-brush-stroke regulatory changes should come with a
warning label and with sufficient time for informative exchanges
between affected parties,” wrote Donna Alexander, CEO of  BAFT-
IFSA , a banking-industry trade group, in a September note to
members.  Although Asian banks have fared better than their Western
counterparts in the downturn, Conner also worries about the
impact of Basel III’s capital requirements.  “Keeping the capital ratio high all the time makes it
potentially difficult to expand,” he says. “We are operating
under considerable uncertainty, and as a result, we’ve added
significant amounts of capital.”  Some banks cruise far ahead of regulators.  “For Canadian banks, having higher capital ratios than
anyone else in the world is a source of pride,” says Mario Mendonca, a financial services analyst at investment firm
Canaccord Genuity in Toronto. Canada’s banks held average Tier 1
capital of 9.8 percent in 2008, as the financial crisis set in.  No Crisis at Canada Banks  The extra cushion paid off when U.S. banks teetered on the
edge of failure in the fall of 2008 and had to be bailed out
with $700 billion from the Treasury.  “We all went into the downturn with very strong quality of
capital,” says Edmund Clark, CEO of Canada’s  Toronto-Dominion
Bank (TD) , No. 12 on the strongest-bank list. Canada also suffered a
much milder housing downturn than the U.S.  U.S. banks, meanwhile, are still working to implement the
2004 Basel II accords.  “Currently, in the U.S., none of the banks are calculating
their capital requirements based on the Basel II numbers,” says
Hugh Carney, senior counsel at the  American Bankers Association .  The banks, Carney says, are in a transitional phase called
a parallel run, which means they are still operating under Basel
I and are testing and calibrating the risk sensitivity of their
loans and investments under Basel II. U.S. banks will only shift
to Basel II risk assessments once the Fed approves their risk-
weighting methodology, Carney says.  Dimon Protests  Jamie Dimon , CEO of JPMorgan Chase, has emerged as a
spokesman for what he regards as beleaguered U.S. financial
institutions. He told the  Council of Institutional Investors  in
early April that Basel III was unnecessarily harsh and could
crimp global growth.  Most large U.S. banks emerged from the Federal Reserve’s
March stress test, the Comprehensive Capital Analysis and
Review, with passing grades. The Fed approved the plans of a
group of banks, including Citigroup, Fifth Third, JPMorgan Chase
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , to raise dividends or do share buybacks.  Yet, the shares of commercial banks have lagged behind the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index from the day before the report’s
release date, March 18, through May 6. Bank stocks fell 1.6
percent on average in the period, compared with a 5.2 percent
gain for the S&P 500.  Richard Ramsden , a bank analyst at Goldman, sees no mystery
in the bank share slump. In an April 7 note to clients, he
attributed the poor performance to the weak housing market,
banks’ shrinking loan books and uncertainty on bank capital
standards.  ‘Systemically Important’  The Fed may require institutions such as Citigroup and
JPMorgan to hold two extra dollops of capital -- one for being
“systemically important” and another as a buffer against
economic downturns. As capital requirements go up, banks’ return
on equity goes down, Ramsden says. He predicts the ROE of the
big U.S. banks would fall 350 basis points if strict rules were
imposed. (A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.)  Europe had four banks on the strong-bank list, including
Switzerland’s  UBS AG (UBSN)  at No. 9;  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , No. 13;
and the U.K.’s  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , No. 15. In mid-April, the
European banking industry was undergoing a new round of stress
tests being administered by the European Banking Authority.
Currency traders gave a quick thumbs down to the last round.  “There’s a lack of credibility,” Brian Dolan, chief
strategist at Forex.com, told Bloomberg News last July. In
September, just two months after the results were released, two
Irish banks that had passed needed a 50 billion euro ($72
billion) bailout from the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  to stay solvent.  New Europe Test  MFS analyst Conn says the new test will be a truer measure
of bank strength.  “They are making it tougher and taking more account of
exposure to sovereign-debt holdings,” he says.  OCBC’s Conner proclaims that his bank can pass anyone’s
test. “This bank can meet all the Basel III requirements today,
given our capital base, so we are ready,” he says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John J. Curran in  New York  at 
 jcurran24@bloomberg.net ; Yoolim Lee at 
 yoolim@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at   mserrill@bloomberg.net . 