-- 
Oceanic Bank of Nigeria Open to New ‘Strategic’ Investors

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-05-09T17:30:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/oceanic-bank-of-nigeria-open-to-selling-stake-to-new-strategic-investors.html
Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC) , a
Nigerian lender bailed out by the country’s central bank, said
it will consider selling a stake to “a strategic investor”
after talks with First Bank Plc for a deal fell through.  “We are currently exploring other recapitalization options
including a sale to a credible, strategic investor,” Chief
Financial Officer Oyinkan Adewale said today in an e-mailed
response to questions.  The Lagos-based lender didn’t come to an agreement with
First Bank, the nation’s third-biggest, because the offer didn’t
“reflect the intrinsic value of Oceanic Bank,” she said.  Nigeria’s central bank fired eight chief executives of
Nigeria’s 24 banks after a debt crisis in 2008 and 2009
threatened the country’s banking industry with collapse. The
regulator bailed out the industry with 620 billion naira ($4
billion), with Oceanic Bank as one of the beneficiaries. The
government subsequently set up the Asset Management Corp. of
 Nigeria , or Amcon, to buy up the lenders’ bad debts.  Oceanic returned to profit in the year through December,
reporting net income of 28.9 billion naira, compared with a loss
of 88.62 billion naira a year earlier, it said May 6. Its
performance was aided by the receipt of 200 billion naira from
the sale of its bad debts to Amcon, said Adewale.  The lender also saved 30 billion naira by reducing its
operating expenses to 65 billion naira in 2010 from 95 billion
naira a year earlier, she said.  Oceanic Bank gained 9 kobo, or 4.6 percent, to close at
2.05 naira on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange .  “People are trading on the news of the bank’s result,”
Muyiwa Oni, banking-sector analyst at Lagos-based Stanbic IBTC
Bank Plc, said by phone today. “Oceanic Bank will need to be
recapitalized to sustain investors’ confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  