-- 
OGX Looking at Bank Loans, Bond Market as Batista Seeks to Fund Investment

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-05-09T20:14:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/ogx-looking-at-bank-loans-bond-market-as-batista-seeks-to-fund-investment.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
the  oil company  controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , is considering bank loans and bond sales to help
finance investments and buy exploration areas.  The oil company has received proposals from banks for
project finance and loans backed by oil reserves, Chief
Financial Officer Marcelo Torres said in a conference call
today. OGX, based in  Rio de Janeiro , had 4.1 billion reais ($2.5
billion) in cash at the end of the first quarter, enough to
cover investments until the second half of next year, he said.  “We need to be working in a way to make sure we preserve
some liquidity,” Torres said. “The  bond market  is a market we
think is very attractive, and we think we would have a very
positive proposition to bring to this market.”  OGX has 10.8 billion barrels of potential resources at its
exploration areas, according to a study released in April by oil
auditing firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton. It needs to pay for
equipment including production platforms and pipelines at
existing projects and plans to bid for exploration areas this
year, Torres said.  A dollar-denominated bond sale by OGX would be the first
for any of the six publicly traded mining, energy and
transportation companies controlled by Batista. His iron-ore
producer MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA sold 96 million reais of
bonds in the Brazilian market in November 2009. Banks offered
MMX $800 million of loans, Chief Executive Officer Roger Downey
said in an interview on Feb. 15.  Farmout  OGX also continues to study selling a minority stake in its
Campos Basin fields to help raise cash, he said. Banks have
offered to lend OGX more than $2 billion, Batista said April 15.  OGX plans to start its first production at a test well in
September or October at the offshore Waimea field, later than
previous estimates. Batista said on Feb. 9 that OGX planned to
start production in August.  “Now that they are getting closer they are delaying it
more and more,”  Anisa Redman , an oil and natural gas analyst at
HSBC Holdings Plc in  New York , said in a telephone interview.
“The market wants to see actual barrels produced out of the
ground, and the sooner it happens the more comfortable the
market feels.”  The company will reach 50,000 to 60,000 barrels a day next
year as it adds production wells to the Waimea field, Chief
Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca said on the conference call.  Shares  OGX rose 5 centavos, or 0.3 percent, to 14.75 reais in Sao
Paulo trading today, paring its loss this year to 26 percent.
The benchmark Bovespa index has declined 6.8 percent this year.  OGX plans to bid for exploration blocks in northern  Brazil 
when the government holds a bidding round later this year,
Torres said.  “We have enough flexibility to buy the blocks we want and
fund” investments, Torres said.  Brazil plans to auction 174 oil and natural-gas exploration
licenses in September, the country’s first sale in almost three
years, for blocks onshore and off the coast of northern Brazil.
OGX has the exploration skills to find oil in the “high-risk”
areas that are up for auction, Torres said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio De Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  