-- 
Oil Group Backs Tax Overhaul Instead of Ending Member Breaks

-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-09T20:14:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/oil-group-backs-tax-overhaul-instead-of-targeting-five-members.html
The  American Petroleum Institute , the
largest trade group representing the oil and gas industry, said
it backs an overhaul of the U.S. tax code rather than ending
benefits for selected energy companies.  Increasing taxes paid by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,
ConocoPhillips,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , as proposed by
Democrats, would lower oil and natural gas output and raise
costs for gasoline and electricity, the institute, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, Americans for Tax Reform and the Small
Business & Entrepreneurship Council said today at a Washington
news conference.  “Let’s look at everyone, let’s look at every company
across the board, not just pick five,” said Brian Johnson,
senior tax adviser at the Washington-based American Petroleum
Institute. “You’re clearly trying to form winners and losers.”  Senate Democrats propose repealing about $21 billion in tax
breaks in the next 10 years for Exxon, Chevron,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
BP and Shell, including a $12 billion tax deduction for
manufacturing. The money would be used to reduce the federal
deficit,  Jon Summers , a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , said today in an e-mail.  Oil companies “don’t need taxpayer handouts,” Reid of
Nevada said today on the Senate floor. “As gas prices and oil
company profits keep rising, each senator will have a chance to
stand with the millionaires or middle class.”  Reid didn’t say when the Senate will vote on the Democratic
tax plan, which hasn’t been released as legislation.  Republican Opposition  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, said repealing tax breaks for the largest oil and
gas companies would increase gas prices and make the U.S. more
dependent on imported oil.  Republicans don’t support revising the  tax code  as part of
a long-term deficit reduction plan being negotiated with the
Obama administration. Senator  Jon Kyl  of Arizona, the Senate’s
No. 2 Republican, said in a May 7 radio interview that he and
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of Virginia oppose tax
increases as part of such an agreement. As envisioned by
administration, the overhaul would include closing loopholes to
help boost revenue to the Treasury.  Exxon, the world’s largest company by market value, had a
profit of $10.7 billion in the first quarter, its largest in
almost three years, the Irving, Texas-based company said on
April 28.  ‘Huge Deficits’  An environment of “huge and uncontrolled deficits” and a
looming vote to raise the U.S. debt limit are fueling lawmaker
backing for fiscal changes, such as raising taxes on energy
companies, that may slow the economic growth, said Martin Regalia, chief economist at the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce .  “The political dynamics change, and some people think,
well, now, we can probably push this through,” he said at the
conference. “What you end up with is a messed-up tax code.”  The top U.S. corporate tax rate is 35 percent, though many
companies pay much lower effective rates because of breaks and
deductions.  A tax overhaul should be coupled with a lower corporate
rate, said API’s Johnson. The rate needs to be “in 20s for us
to compete internationally,” he said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in  Washington  at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net . 