-- 
Gavea Says Tombini Has to Raise Brazil Interest Rates More ‘Aggressively’

-- B y   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i   a n d   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a
-- 
2011-05-09T11:46:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/tombini-must-raise-brazil-interest-rates-more-aggressively-bier-says.html
Brazilian policy makers led by central
bank President Alexandre Tombini must raise  interest rates  more
aggressively to rein in surging consumer prices, according to
Gavea Investimentos Ltda.  Concern that increasing rates quicker will hinder economic
growth is leading President Dilma Rousseff’s team to loosen the
grip on inflation, said Gavea partner Amaury Bier, a former
deputy finance minister who helps run the Brazilian hedge fund
and private-equity firm controlled by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “The central bank’s credibility is being challenged and
the credibility of the  Finance Ministry  has been low for a few
years,” Bier, who runs Gavea with former central banker  Arminio Fraga , said in a May 5 interview at the firm’s headquarters in
Rio de Janeiro.  Emerging economies from Russia to  South Korea  are raising
borrowing costs to contain inflation fueled by surging food and
oil prices. Tombini in Brazil boosted the benchmark rate by a
quarter point to 12 percent last month after two half-point
increases, saying a substantial part of anti-inflationary
efforts has already been implemented. Inflation quickened to
6.51 percent in April, exceeding the upper limit of the
government’s target range for the first time since 2005.  “Uncertainty over the persistence of inflationary
pressures” in  Latin America ’s largest economy will lead the
central bank to continue a tightening policy for a longer period
than initially planned, though at a slower pace, according to
minutes of its April 19-20 meeting.  “They should hike much more aggressively,” Bier said.
“Everything points out to the problem of excessive demand.”  Payroll Spending  Had the Brazilian central bank increased the Selic rate by
more than 50 basis points in January, the first move after
Rousseff took office, authorities would have helped allay
investor concerns that her government may favor growth at the
expense of controlling inflation, Bier said.  A surge in government hiring under Rousseff’s predecessor,
 Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , will limit her ability to trim
spending because civil servants can’t be fired or have salary
cuts under Brazilian law, Bier said. Payroll spending stokes
inflation and restricts the government’s ability to make
investments in infrastructure such as roads and airports that
are needed to sustain growth, he said.  “The economy is suffering from a lack of everything, every
piece of infrastructure,” Bier said. “It’s a complete
disaster.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Caminada in Rio De Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  