-- 
London Airports Splash $6 Billion on Revamp to Lure Jaded Flyers

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-05-09T23:01:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/london-airports-splash-6-billion-on-revamp-to-lure-jaded-flyers.html
London ’s Heathrow and Gatwick
airports, the busiest in Britain, are spending almost $6 billion
on makeover projects to stem an exodus of passengers and
airlines put off by their crowded lounges and faded concrete.  At Heathrow, the roof will this month be added to a 2.6
billion-pound ($4.3 billion) replacement terminal reckoned by
owner BAA Ltd. to be  Europe ’s biggest building site. Gatwick, 43
miles away, has a 1 billion-pound spending plan that includes
cladding one of its two aging terminals in glass and steel.  While the plans won’t immediately add capacity at the
runway-restricted airports, BAA and Global Infrastructure
Partners, Gatwick’s owner, say the spending is vital if they’re
to retain flyers and lure back others lost to award-winning
developments at hubs including  Madrid , Munich and Paris Charles
de Gaulle, which has an area four times that of Heathrow.  “We can’t compete with Europe using 1950s infrastructure,
so we’re building for the future,” Steve Morgan, head of BAA’s
capital investment program, said in an interview. “That means
wider areas for passengers to walk through, faster baggage
systems, brand new bathrooms and much better lighting with
forecourts that are bigger, brighter and easier to navigate.”  The reputations of both Heathrow and Gatwick, owned by BAA
until 2009, were tarnished in the past decade as investment in
facilities failed to keep pace with growth in traffic.  T5 Trauma  Even the opening of Heathrow’s fifth terminal, built in
2008 for British Airways, its biggest customer, at a cost of 5.5
billion pounds, attracted negative publicity as tens of
thousands of luggage items were misplaced and hundreds of
flights canceled after the baggage system broke down on day one.  “We’ve learned a lot from our T5 experience,” Morgan
said. “We’ll gradually start it up -- we won’t make a big
bang.”  The current program involves the reconstruction of Terminal
2, dating from 1955 and Heathrow’s oldest building. Once that’s
complete in 2013 the 42-year-old Terminal 1 will be demolished
and integrated with Terminal 2 over six years to create a single
complex able to handle 30 million people annually, the same
number accommodated by Terminal 5.  At Gatwick, work on renovating the North Terminal is more
advanced and construction will be completed this month, with
carriers including British Airways and  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , the
airport’s two biggest clients, due to move in from September,
Chief Executive Officer Stewart Wingate said in an interview.  Ship in a Bottle  While Heathrow remains  Europe’s busiest airport , its total
of 65.9 million passengers last year was 0.2 percent lower than
in 2009. Among European peers, traffic rose 7.4 percent at Rome
Fiumicino, 6.2 percent in Munich, 4.1 percent in Frankfurt, 3.8
in Amsterdam, 2.8 in Madrid and 0.2 percent at Paris CDG.  Gatwick’s total of 31.4 million passengers in 2010 was the
lowest in seven years and 3.8 million below the peak in 2007.  BAA’s Morgan, a native of Columbus,  Ohio , likens
refurbishing Heathrow while it’s still operational to building a
ship in a bottle and says the program is being driven by
passenger needs rather than what’s best for airlines.  “Our focus is on making an airport that’s more utilitarian
by design, allowing passengers to get through as quickly as they
want,” said Morgan, a former rear admiral in the U.S. Navy who
was recruited from the nuclear industry to oversee Heathrow’s
reshaping. “The biggest challenge is anticipating what the
demand will be and what kind of planes airlines will be
flying.”  Lufthansa, United  The biggest beneficiaries of the Terminal 2 revamp will be
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA) ,  United Airlines  and the 25 other members
of the  Star Alliance  to which the building will be dedicated
when it opens in 2014 with an initial 20-million capacity.  Heathrow is the world’s busiest hub airport, with 35
percent of its passengers changing flights, and further
developments will see BA’s allies in the Oneworld grouping
concentrated at Terminal 3, allowing quicker transfers to
Terminal 5, and the 13  SkyTeam carriers  including  Air France-KLM (AF) 
Group and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  relocated to Terminal 4.  At Gatwick, the South Terminal will this month unveil a new
security system featuring Britain’s first automated ticket check
and longer conveyors for the inspection of carry-on bags.  Acquired by GIP for 1.51 billion pounds after BAA sold it
in the face of pressure from Britain’s antitrust regulator,
Gatwick is targeting passenger growth of as much as 25 percent
within seven years and aims to lure long-haul carriers from
Heathrow as the bigger airport is limited by capacity curbs.  “Many carriers would like to get into Heathrow, but if
it’s genuinely full they’re going to look at Gatwick,” CEO
Wingate said in an interview. “That’s a big opportunity for
us.”  Hemmed In  What the reinvention of Heathrow and Gatwick can’t do is
change the geographical and political limitations facing them.  Heathrow, built in open countryside in a post-war era of
laissez faire infrastructure development, is constrained by the
encroaching  London suburbs  and a government policy on noise and
emissions that limits it to two runways, compared with four at
Paris Charles de Gaulle, five in Amsterdam and three in
 Frankfurt , where a fourth is due to open this year.  Gatwick is the busiest single-runway airport in the world
and has been unable to develop the variety of connections
offered by major hubs, giving it the largest number of point-to-
point flyers -- those who aren’t changing planes -- in Europe.  The airport may also struggle to win business travelers who
prefer Heathrow because it’s closer to central London, said  John Strickland , an aviation analyst at JLS Consulting Ltd.  “There’s no doubt that Gatwick has become much more open
to business since becoming a separate company, but airlines
don’t pay millions to get slots at Heathrow for nothing,” he
said.  Jumbo Price  At Heathrow, limits on those operating slots has led
carriers to deploy bigger aircraft such as Boeing Co.’s 747 and
the  Airbus SAS A380 superjumbo , allowing them to maximize seats-
per-flight. That in turn stretches the airport’s infrastructure
with loads of as many as 550 people at a time, Morgan said.  “We have more 747s and A380s flying here than any other
place in the world, but they come with a price, and we have to
adapt the airport to accommodate them,” the executive said.  Faced with these demands, Heathrow’s long-term strategy
envisages eking out space for the next 25 to 30 years, adding
satellite structures to Terminals 2 and 5 to help lift capacity
to 90 million passengers from the existing runways, he said.  Peter Morris, chief economist at London-based aviation
consultant Ascend, said brighter terminals and the ability to
handle more people on bigger planes are ultimately no substitute
for the freeing up of additional takeoff slots.  “Heathrow is essentially full and all this does is
rearrange the furniture,” he said. “Passenger numbers can
drift up a little, but that doesn’t lessen the degree of misery
caused by having a limit on the number of flights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  