-- 
London Canal Boats Beat Supertankers Hire Rates as Glut Sinks Oil Freight

-- B y   A l a r i c   N i g h t i n g a l e
-- 
2011-05-09T13:40:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/london-canal-boats-beat-supertankers-as-glut-sinks-oil-freight.html
Hiring  canal boats  in  London  costs
more than supertankers earn from shipping Saudi Arabian crude to
Japan as a glut of the oil transporters cuts freight rates on
the industry’s most important trade route.  Returns from the 1,000-foot long tankers plunged 99 percent
to $585 a day over the past year for single-trip charters to
deliver 2 million barrel cargoes, according to the London-based
Baltic Exchange. Hiring a 57-foot pleasure craft on the Grand
Union Canal that links London to Birmingham costs 395 pounds
($646) a day, the holidayuk.co.uk website shows.  The surplus of supertankers vying for Middle East cargoes
has more than doubled to 23 percent this year as ships hit the
water that were ordered in 2007 and 2008 when returns were
higher, according to Bloomberg News surveys of shipowners and
brokers. Ship fuel prices, representing owners’ single-largest
expense, have climbed 28 percent in 2011, tracking crude oil.  “We try to avoid  Arabian Gulf  to East cargoes at these
dismal numbers,” said Jens Martin Jensen, Singapore-based chief
executive officer of the management unit of Frontline Ltd., which
has enough tankers to supply the U.K. for more than two months.
“We could see a return to profitability hopefully in the second
half of the year” as demand strengthens.  A rebound of that magnitude would require average rental
income to exceed $30,100 a day, Frontline’s last reported
breakeven level once finance costs are taken into account. In
the present market, owners would be “lucky” to secure charters
above that level, he said.  Expanding Fleet  Owners are contending with a fleet that is expanding faster
than seaborne trade in oil. The transportation capacity of the
global fleet of very large crude carriers, or VLCCs as the
supertankers are known, will swell 7.4 percent this year to
172.8 million deadweight tons, according to Clarkson Plc, the
world’s largest shipbroker. Demand will grow 3.2 percent to
128.4 million tons, it said.  The ships were ordered in 2007 and 2008 when returns
rose as high as $177,000 a day on the Saudi Arabia to  Japan 
route, according to Baltic Exchange information that goes back
to July 2008.  The carrying capacity of Frontline’s fleet, including
smaller vessels than VLCCs, totals about 15.3 million deadweight
tons. That would be enough to transport more than 110 million
barrels of cargo. The U.K. consumed 1.6 million barrels a day in
2009, according to data from BP Plc.  Tanker Index  Frontline dropped 23 percent in Oslo this year to 115.4
kroner a share by 1:24 p.m. in London, giving the company a
market value of 8.9 billion kroner ($1.6 billion). The six
member Bloomberg Tanker Index, which spans owners of smaller
ships, has lost 8.9 percent to 339.69 points.  The  Saudi Arabia  to Japan trade route is used to settle
bets, or hedges, called forward freight agreements, or FFAs,
linked to the cost of transporting crude oil.  Frontline will typically target westbound shipments, and
then seek cargoes from either the Caribbean or West Africa back
to  Asia , limiting the time its ships are empty, the company’s
annual report shows.  Just to pay crew, insurance and repairs, owners need
$12,777 a day, according to Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in
London. Owners are even contributing $10,500 a day toward
fuel costs to send ships to the U.S., according to Baltic
Exchange data. The strategy allows companies to reposition ships
in more profitable markets so they don’t have to pay the entire
fuel charge.  Undercutting Shipowners  Oil companies  that own ships or have them on long-term
charters are temporarily undercutting conventional shipowners
because they require fewer of the vessels during yearly refinery
maintenance, said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo. That is adding to vessel supply and
cutting charter rates, he said.  “You have a lot of oil companies re-letting vessels into
the market and they don’t have any cash break-even level,” said
Stavseth, who correctly predicted a surge in gasoline shipping
stocks this quarter. “They say ‘we don’t need it, we make $10 a
day, it’s better than making zero.’ That’s the oversupply we are
seeing right now in the VLCC market.”  The collapse in spot rates has contributed to a slump in
longer-term charter rates and the price that owners will pay to
buy second-hand vessels. The purchase price of a second-hand
VLCC has dropped 2.3 percent this year to $81.9 million,
according to the  Baltic Exchange . A yearlong rental of a similar
ship has declined to $28,000 a day from $31,000 at the end of
last year.  By contrast, hiring a canal boat remains an attractive
proposition for tourists from around the world, said Barry
Peters, managing director of Holidays in the U.K.  “Traveling slowly along the network of canals in a narrow
boat and stopping at pubs and attractions is an unmatched
experience,” said Peters. “I am astonished that supertankers
can be hired for so little.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaric Nightingale in London at 
 Anightingal1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Wallace at 
 swallace6@bloomberg.net  