-- 
Lonmin Plans $2 Billion Platinum Expansion as Prices Gain

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-05-09T15:45:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lonmin-s-first-half-profit-almost-doubles-as-price-of-platinum-increases.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s third-largest
platinum company, will invest about $2 billion restarting mines
and expanding production in  South Africa  to take advantage of a
recovery in prices of the metal from a rout in 2008.  Lonmin will spend about $400 million a year to boost annual
production to 950,000 platinum ounces by 2015 from the 750,000
ounces it plans for this fiscal year ending Sept. 30, Chief
Executive Officer Ian Farmer said in a phone interview today.  “We’re heading into a period between 2012 and 2014 where
we’re going to have a very tight supply-demand situation,” he
said. “Supply has been lethargic and demand is gradually
recovering as the  auto industry  gets back on its feet.”  Platinum, used in jewelry and to control pollution from
vehicles, has risen 33 percent in the past two years to $1,793
an ounce in  London  as demand for cars rebounds from a world
economic slump. Lonmin suspended opencast mining at Marikana in
South Africa and shut its Limpopo underground operations after
slowing economies ended a six-year surge in metal prices.  Lonmin gained 0.8 percent to 1,562 pence by the 4:30 p.m.
close of London trading, giving it a market value of 3.16
billion pounds ($5.2 billion).  Anglo Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , the world’s
largest producer of the metal, which has also closed mines and
cut jobs, fell 2 percent in Johannesburg.  The forecast of expansion “is a positive for Lonmin and
returning mothballed production is a key reason for its premium
valuation,” Liberum Capital Ltd. wrote in a note today.  Re-Examine Limpopo  Lonmin will “re-examine Limpopo to identify the right time
to reactivate our assets,” Farmer said. One of the company’s
large open-pit mining operations will probably be restarted “in
the next year or so,” he said. The company’s forecast includes
the open-pit mine, not any reopening of Limpopo, Farmer said.  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  owns about 25 percent of London-based Lonmin,
which taps the Bushveld complex in northern South Africa, the
nation with the richest reserves of the metal.  Lonmin’s earnings excluding one-time items almost doubled
to 45 cents a share in the first half through March, beating the
43-cent median estimate of eight analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Platinum sales rose 9 percent to 318,306 ounces, falling
short of Credit Suisse Group AG’s estimate of 337,000 ounces.  The overall first-half result was “encouraging,”  RBC
Capital Markets  wrote in a note, adding that it expects the
company’s stock to “start trading up from here.”  Lonmin expects a “small deficit” this year in supply of
platinum group metals as industrial and automotive industry
demand recovers, with the shortage widening until at least 2014,
the London-based company said in a copy of an investors’
presentation posted on its  website  today. The response by global
suppliers of the metal to rising demand is “slow,” it added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  