-- 
Hooters Settles Lawsuit Over Challenge to the Sale of Restaurant Chain

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-05-09T19:02:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hooters-settles-lawsuit-over-challenge-to-the-sale-of-restaurant-chain.html
Hooters of America Inc., the
restaurant chain best known for its tank top-clad waitresses and
spicy chicken wings, settled a lawsuit challenging the company’s
sale to a buyout firm, a lawyer said.  Hooters managers, the family of  Robert “Bob” Brooks , the
chain’s former chief executive officer, and officials of
private-equity firms  Chanticleer Investors LLC  and  Wellspring
Capital  Management LLC agreed to resolve the Delaware Chancery
Court case over the chain’s sale to Chanticleer, Lewis R. Clayton, a New York-based lawyer for Wellspring, said in a May 6
interview.  “The settlement is confidential and the parties have
agreed to dismiss all claims,” Clayton added.  Brooks’s family sold its interests in the 455-restaurant
chain to a group of investors led by Chanticleer earlier this
year for an undisclosed amount. The sale resolved a dispute over
the executive’s estate, according to court filings. Brooks,
known as Hooters’ “Worldwide Wing Commander,” died in 2006.  Wellspring, a private-equity firm whose holdings include
the  Checkers  hamburger-restaurant chain according to its
website, had sought to buy Hooters, according to court papers.
Chanticleer officials, who claimed they were granted a purchase
option as part of a loan deal with one of Hooters’ units,
ultimately bought the chain earlier this year.  Michael Pruitt, Chanticleer’s chairman, declined to comment
on the settlement today.  Alexis Aleshire , a Hooters spokeswoman,
and  Kurt Heyman , a lawyer for Brooks’s family, didn’t
immediately return calls for comment today.  Estate Fight  The Hooters chain has restaurants in 44 states and 28
countries, according to the company’s  website . The chain’s
waitresses, clad in tight, white tank tops and orange shorts,
serve sandwiches, seafood and the chain’s signature chicken
wings.  Brooks, of Myrtle Beach,  South Carolina , bought Hooters in
1986 and expanded it in the U.S. and internationally. After the
69-year-old executive died in July 2006, his will divided
ownership of the chain among family members and  Clemson
University , according to the Myrtle Beach Sun News newspaper.  Brooks’ second wife , Tami Springs Brooks , challenged her
$20 million share under the will and a South Carolina judge
ruled she was entitled to one-third of Brooks’s estate, the
newspaper reported. The Hooters chain may have been worth as
much as  $250 million , the New York Post reported in February.  Sale Approved  In December, a South Carolina judge  approved  the chain’s
sale as part of an agreement between Brooks’s family members,
according to court filings.  That same month, Hooters officials filed suit in state
court in Delaware and asked a judge to decide whether  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based Chanticleer “validly exercised its
contractual right of first refusal” to bar the Wellspring sale,
court filings show.  Before a judge could hear the case, Hooters officials
reversed course and agreed to sell the chain to the group led by
Chanticleer, which includes  HIG Capital LLC , a Miami-based
private-equity firm that has $8.5 billion under management,
according to its website.  Chanticleer’s lawyers contend the private-equity firm,
which once focused on microcap companies, got the purchase
option in 2006 when it loaned $5 million to  Hooters Air , a now-
defunct airline linked to the restaurant chain, according to
court filings.  Closes April 2006  The Myrtle Beach-based airline, which offered cut-rate
fares, shut down in April 2006, citing increases in jet-fuel
costs.  The amount of Wellspring’s offer for Hooters hasn’t been
made public. Founded in 1995, the private-equity firm focuses
mostly on companies in industries such as restaurants,
manufacturing and distribution.  Wellspring sold the restaurant and entertainment company
Dave & Buster’s Inc. to Oak Hill Capital Partners for $570
million last year.  The  Delaware  case is Hooters of America Inc. v.
Neighborhood Restaurants International Inc., 6054, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 