-- 
Morgan Stanley Trading Gains Topped $100 Million on 10 Days

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-05-09T22:55:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/morgan-stanley-trading-gains-exceeded-100-million-on-10-days-last-quarter.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest U.S.
bank by assets, posted trading revenue of more than $100 million
on 10 days in the first quarter.  The firm’s trading division lost money on 3 days during the
period, compared with 13 days in the fourth quarter,  New York- 
based Morgan Stanley said in a filing with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  last week posted perfect quarters, with positive
revenue on each trading day.  Morgan Stanley had $3.47 billion in sales and trading
revenue in the three months ended March 31, more than triple its
fourth-quarter figure and about half that of rivals  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and JPMorgan. Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 52, has replaced management and increased hiring in the
fixed-income trading unit to close the gap.  “Our trading results demonstrated considerable improvement
and reflect continued focus and discipline,” Chief Financial
Officer Ruth Porat said on a conference call last month. She
said the daily revenue disclosure would be “another way of
underscoring that with the addition of the team, greater
presence with clients, greater client facilitation
opportunities, that we’re productive.”  JPMorgan’s market risk-related revenue averaged $112
million a day in the quarter and was higher than $160 million on
seven of the period’s 64 days, the New York-based lender said in
a filing last week. The bank’s measure includes some market risk
besides trading, such as principal transactions in its chief
investment office and some mortgage fees and hedges.  Bank of America  Bank of America’s trading-related revenue was positive
every day and exceeded $25 million on 98 percent of days during
the year’s first three months, the  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based company said in a filing last week.  Gorman said in February that his “No. 1” priority is
turning around the firm’s fixed-income trading unit, hoping to
capture a 2 percentage-point gain in market share this year.
Excluding gains and losses tied to their own debt, Morgan
Stanley had about a 6 percent market share in 2010 among 11 of
the largest U.S. and European banks, according to data compiled
by analysts at JPMorgan and Nomura Holdings Inc.  Morgan Stanley also settled a lawsuit involving a
collateralized debt obligation named Tourmaline, according to
today’s filing. The firm settled at a loss that’s
“substantially less” than the $273 million possible loss the
company had previously disclosed, it said.  Legal Appeal  It’s “reasonably possible” Morgan Stanley could lose up
to $240 million from a 2010 lawsuit brought by China Development
Industrial Bank over a $275 million credit default swap,
according to the filing. Morgan Stanley is appealing a court
order denying its motion to dismiss the case, the company said.  Morgan Stanley’s derivative counterparty exposure to MBIA
Inc. and other bond insurers was $782 million at March 31, after
netting for credit valuation adjustments and hedges, according
to the filing. That exposure was about negative $660 million at
Dec. 31, when CVA and hedges related to MBIA exceeded the firm’s
exposure by $1.1 billion.  The increase in the exposure was “primarily due to a
reduction of MBIA-related hedges,” Morgan Stanley said. The
firm lost $318 million related to the exposures and hedges in
the first quarter, bringing its total losses to $1.04 billion in
the past four quarters.  In February, Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc.
filed a lawsuit against Morgan Stanley and other defendants
alleging they “made untrue statements and material omissions”
in the sale of mortgage pass-through certificates, according to
the filing. Morgan Stanley said it’s accused of issuing,
underwriting or selling $102 million of the securities.  Cambridge Place filed a similar suit in July 2010 accusing
Morgan Stanley of issuing, underwriting or selling $242 million
of the securities, according to a previous regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  