-- 
Republicans Seek More Information on Impact of EPA Rules on Power Industry

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-05-09T22:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/house-republicans-seek-information-on-epa-rules-power-industry.html
U.S. House Republican leaders are
seeking information from the Obama administration about possible
harm to the electricity-generating industry from Environmental
Protection Agency rules.  House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman  Fred Upton , a
Michigan Republican, and two subcommittee chairman asked the EPA
about how it analyzes the effect of new rules on the power
industry, according to letters released today by the committee.
Requests also were made to the Energy Department and Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission, which oversees power distribution.  President  Barack Obama ’s EPA is under fire from Republicans
such as Upton who say agency regulations will hurt the economy
and destroy jobs. New and pending rules under scrutiny include
limits on  greenhouse gases  blamed for  climate change  and a
proposal to cut mercury and air toxins from coal-fired plants.  “The committee is concerned that the Obama EPA has been
regulating too much too fast, without fully analyzing the
feasibility and economic impacts of its new rules,” the House
panel said in a statement.  The panel wrote to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson asking
whether the agency studied how regulations will affect energy,
manufacturing and trade-exposed industries such as cement, paper
and steel.  The lawmakers asked whether the EPA consulted with the
Energy Department, the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission , the
 Council on Environmental Quality  or the Office of Management and
Budget about the impact of rules on electricity reliability.  The rules are “sensible steps to protect public health,”
according to an EPA statement today. The agency is working with
companies to ensure that Clean Air Act rules are “reasonable,
commonsense and achievable,” according to the statement.  Upton, joined by Representatives Ed Whitfield of Kentucky
and Cliff Stearns of  Florida , asked Energy Secretary Steven Chu
and FERC Chairman Jon Wellinghoff about consultations between
their agencies and EPA on regulations affecting power companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  