-- 
Lloyd’s Insurer Selling Policy Against EU Flip Flop on Carbon

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-05-09T09:25:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lloyd-s-insurer-selling-policy-against-eu-flip-flop-on-carbon.html
A Lloyd’s of London insurer is
offering carbon traders coverage that would pay out if the
European Union changes its mind again on the emission credits it
will accept in its cap-and-trade market, the world’s largest.  Kiln Group Ltd., a Lloyd’s insurer owned by  Tokio Marine
Holdings Inc. (8766)  of  Japan , began selling policies last month that
may pay traders in the event European regulators propose or pass
new eligibility rules, said Julian Richardson, chief executive
officer at  Parhelion  Underwriting Ltd., an adviser to Kiln.  “We can define the trigger” to suit the premium the
client is willing to pay, Richardson said in a May 5 interview
from London. A regulatory proposal would usually come several
months before rules take effect in the carbon market.
Eligibility risk insurance might cost about 3 percent to 8
percent of the sum insured, Richardson said. The price might be
higher for policies covering more risk, he said.  The European Commission proposed a ban starting in May 2013
on credits from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23, a
greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, to curb “exorbitant” returns. The ban
will probably become law later this year, based on usual
timeframes for approval by regulatory bodies including the
European Parliament.  “We want the clients to tell us what keeps them awake at
night,” said Thomas Hoad, underwriter in the enterprise risks
division of Kiln. The policies “will encourage more investment
in climate-change projects.”  Ban ‘Threatens Value’  Kiln’s policy “can be a useful product, especially for a
portfolio that’s not very diversified,” said Adrien Assous,
chief economist of carbon markets at Natixis in Paris, which
invests in greenhouse gas credits. It’s difficult to know which
projects, if any, may be banned next, Assous said. “I don’t
know the hierarchy in the commission’s blacklist.”  The HFC-23 ban, signaled by the commission in May last
year, threatens the value of 30 billion euros ($43 billion) of
credits, Miles Austin, a spokesman for the Carbon Markets &
Investors Association in  London , said in February this year. The
UN has approved projects tied to 3.6 billion euros of such
credits since 2005 based on last week’s prices. That’s 45
percent of the total in the UN emissions market.  December 2010 futures fell as much as 22 percent to 11.35
euros a ton on Dec. 10 from 14.53 euros on May 3 last year,
according to data from ICE Futures  Europe  in London.  The  EU Climate Change Committee, which includes
representatives of the bloc’s member states, recommended the ban
on Jan. 21 this year. Since then, the December 2011 permits have
jumped 19 percent to close at 13.03 euros last week.  Unspecified Bank  Kiln sold last month what it calls the world’s first
carbon-credit-eligibility risk product to an unspecified
international bank, it said. The insurer declined to say whether
the bank was protecting its existing portfolio of credits or a
new transaction.  The policy sold pays when any new ban comes into force,
said Laura Guerin, a Kiln spokeswoman in London. While Kiln may
consider covering a policy that pays when the Brussels-based
commission makes a proposal for a new ban, such an event may be
too risky to insure, she said May 6 by phone.  “The price drivers are the host country, the technology
type and the period for which the risk is covered,” Richardson
said. Credits from emission-reduction projects in  China  may be
riskier because the EU has said it favors those in least-
developed nations, he said. “Beyond 2014, our crystal ball gets
foggy,” boosting risks and premium prices, he said.  The risk that a change in legislation by the European Union
could render carbon credits, or Certified Emission Reductions,
“suddenly worthless is one of the factors holding back the
market,” according to a Kiln statement.  “What we’ve done is used fairly conventional insurance
products but applied it to a completely new area of industry,”
Paul Culham, active underwriter at Kiln, said  on the Lloyd’s
website . It’s “combining the skills we’ve got on the credit-
and-political risk arena with the skills we’ve got in the green-
energy type of arena.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  