-- 
Toyota Falls After Kan Asks Chubu Electric To Shut Nuclear Power Plant

-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 
2011-05-09T02:02:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/toyota-falls-after-kan-asks-chubu-electric-to-shut-nuclear-plant.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  fell in Tokyo
trading after Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  asked Chubu Electric
Power Co. to shut a nuclear power plant that provides
electricity for several of the carmaker’s factories.  Shares in the world’s largest auto company dropped as much
as 30 yen, or 0.9 percent, to 3,180 yen and traded at 3,195 yen
as of 10:51 a.m. The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average fell 0.2 percent.  Kan asked  Japan ’s third-biggest utility last week to shut
its Hamaoka plant, citing a government study that showed an 87
percent likelihood of a magnitude-8 earthquake striking the area
within 30 years. The request was the government’s first since
Japan’s record temblor and tsunami in March caused the world’s
worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  Chubu Electric serves central Japan, including Aichi
prefecture where Toyota operates 12 car and component factories.
Suppliers to Toyota, including  Denso Corp. (6902)  and Aisin Seiki Co.
are also based in the prefecture, and fell 1.6 percent and 1.5
percent respectively.  “The impact on the  auto industry  will not be minor and
Toyota and affiliated suppliers will likely bear a large
proportion of the burden,” said  Koji Endo , an auto analyst at
Advanced Research Japan in Tokyo.  Chubu Electric’s board met on May 7 to discuss the
government request. No decision has yet been made, said Tokyo-
based spokesman Akio Miyazaki.  Toyota has said production in Japan may normalize by
November or December. Chubu Electric’s shutdown could force
Toyota to move that target to the quarter ending in March, Endo
said.  Toyota spokeswoman Shiori Hashimoto declined to comment on
the possible shutdown.  Osaka-based Daihatsu Motor Co., Japan’s largest minicar
maker, also fell, declining 2.1 percent to 1,287 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  Tokyo  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  