-- 
HP Adds Office Networking Gear to Step Up Rivalry With Cisco

-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s   a n d   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 
2011-05-09T20:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hp-woos-business-laptop-buyers-with-web-access-better-audio.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , the world’s
largest computer maker, unveiled a switch that helps companies
route data over networks, aiming to charge less for the device
than comparable products from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   The A 10500 switch, which companies can use to deliver
high-definition video and other content, will go on sale in the
second half of the year, starting at $38,000,  Palo Alto ,
California-based Hewlett-Packard said today in a statement. The
company also introduced new business laptops and a wireless
broadband service earlier today.  Hewlett-Packard aims to charge 35 percent to 40 percent
less for its switches, which connect computers to networks, than
Cisco does, Hewlett-Packard executive vice president David Donatelli said in an interview. That may add to pressure on
Cisco, which has lost share in switches amid price rivalry.  “Cisco has a business-model problem -- they’ve been
overcharging,” Donatelli said. “You’ve seen a stunning change
in the dynamics of the market. We’re now a strong No. 2.”  Hewlett-Packard gained 2.3 percentage points of switch
revenue share in 2009 and 2010, while Cisco lost share,
according to Hewlett-Packard. Cisco leads the market, deriving
30 percent of sales from switches.  The company also announced plans to release the HP ProBook
5330m and HP EliteBook 2560 this month. The computers will be
able to use the new HP DataPass online connection, which lowers
Internet costs for business travelers who only need occasional
access, said Mike Hockey, a spokesman for Hewlett-Packard.  Business Travelers  “It’s for the business person who’s travelling
occasionally who wants quick access to 3G without the hassle of
being tied to a contract or finding a Wi-Fi hot spot,” Hockey
said in an interview.  Hewlett-Packard is seeking fresh ways to make its PCs stand
out from rival products, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and other
mobile devices. The industry’s PC shipments declined 3.2 percent
last quarter, hurt by sales of tablets, research firm IDC said
last month. Hewlett-Packard plans to release its own tablet
called the TouchPad in the next few months.  Hewlett-Packard shares rose 21 cents to $41.02 today in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. They have declined 2.6
percent this year.  DataPass pricing starts at $5 for 75 megabytes of data, or
five hours of Web browsing, rising to $30 for 1 gigabyte, or 30
days, the company said. Consumers who sign up for U.S. wireless
broadband plans typically pay $50 to $60 for 5 gigabytes, plus
early termination and activation fees.  Staying Connected  “This might bring in some recurring revenue for HP, but
what they’re really trying to do is give the customer the
ability to be connected anytime, anywhere and give them the
various options to buy their PCs over some other device,” said
 Tim Bajarin , president of technology consulting firm Creative
Strategies Inc. in Campbell,  California .  Hewlett-Packard, working with Peregrine Network Inc., is
getting the wireless bandwidth from  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , similar
to the way Amazon.com Inc. offers its Whispernet service to
Kindle e-reader customers.  The ProBook 5330m, which starts at $799, measures less than
1 inch thick and is the company’s first business notebook to
include enhanced audio from its partnership with  Beats by Dr.
Dre , a product line developed by the rapper and producer. The
EliteBook 2560 starts at $1,099.  Hewlett-Packard and other makers of corporate laptops,
including  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and Lenovo Group Ltd., are trying to entice
buyers by adding more consumer-friendly features, such as better
sound and screens and backlit keyboards.  Businesses have shown interest in computers with more
consumer features, as long as they offer ways to secure
important information, Hockey said.  “We think the wave is coming,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Thomas Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  