-- 
Pacific Crest Said to Plan Buyout of Goldman-Backed Research Arm

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-05-09T08:54:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pacific-crest-said-to-plan-buyout-of-pacific-epoch-from-goldman-investors.html
Pacific Crest Securities, an
investment bank focused on technology deals, is close to an
agreement to buy  China  research firm Pacific Epoch from
investors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , two people
familiar with the matter said.  The people, who declined to provide financial terms of the
deal, asked not to be identified because the discussions are
private. Pacific Crest is interested in acquiring all of
Shanghai-based Pacific Epoch, which also has offices in  New York 
and Hong Kong, said one of the people.  Pacific Crest, which helped manage last week’s $855 million
initial public offering of Beijing-based Renren Inc., is
expanding in China to win business from companies in the world’s
biggest Internet market. In 2008, a research arm of Goldman
Sachs called Hudson Street acquired a stake in Pacific Epoch, a
researcher covering industries including technology, retail and
alternative energy.  Jen McBee, an assistant of Pacific Crest Chief Executive
Officer Scott Sandbo, didn’t immediately respond to messages on
her office phone and e-mail seeking comment. Connie Ling, a
spokeswoman at Goldman Sachs in  Hong Kong , declined to comment,
as did Pacific Epoch's head of research.  Pacific Epoch received a $7 million investment from Goldman
Sachs in 2008. The closely held Chinese firm employs more than
90 people in China, the United States and Hong Kong, according
to its website.  China Internet Deals  Renren’s IPO saw the owner of China’s biggest social-
networking site by page views raise funds at a valuation more
than twice that of Facebook Inc. Pacific Crest also co-managed
the listing of  Youku.com Inc. (YOKU) , the operator of China’s most-
popular video website, in December.  Fundraising by Chinese Internet companies is expected to
climb to a record this year as investors aim to benefit from the
growth of Web services in the country, Lee Kai-fu, the former
head of China at  Google Inc. (GOOG) , said last month. Lee now runs a
venture fund that invests in technology startups.  Pacific Crest said last month it plans to hire more bankers
and analysts in China as part of expectations that it will win
more business this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  