-- 
U.S. Won’t Apologize to Pakistan for Surprise Attack That Killed Bin Laden

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-05-09T19:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pakistan-to-probe-bin-laden-failures-as-gilani-calls-his-killing-justice-.html
The Obama administration said it won’t
apologize for entering Pakistani territory to raid Osama  bin Laden ’s compound, as the South Asian country’s prime minister
tried to counter domestic criticism over the  military’s failure
to detect and stop the U.S. attack.  Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  said there would be an
investigation of intelligence failures that enabled bin Laden to
go undetected and of the inability of its military to react
during the covert U.S. operation that killed the al-Qaeda chief
in a house near its most prestigious military academy.  Gilani, in a speech to Parliament in Islamabad today, said
bin Laden’s killing was “justice” for the terrorist attacks
the al-Qaeda leader had ordered, including those against
Pakistani citizens.  Pakistan ’s Inter-Services Intelligence spy
agency, or ISI, had provided leads that eventually helped locate
bin Laden, he said.  “Allegations of complicity or incompetence are absurd,”
Gilani said. “It was the ISI that passed these leaks to the
CIA” and “enabled the U.S. to use superior technological
assets to focus on the area.”  Gilani said a unilateral operation runs the risk of
“serious consequences. Suppose the operation had gone wrong,”
he said.  “We obviously take the statements and concerns of the
Pakistani government seriously,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said today, speaking just hours after Gilani’s
remarks. “But we also do not apologize for the actions that we
took.”  Drone Strikes  The Obama administration aims to preserve a relationship
with Pakistan that has allowed it to conduct unacknowledged CIA
drone strikes against militants and at least partly stem the
flow of fighters into neighboring Afghanistan. Pakistan is
seeking to blunt criticism overseas and at home over whether
government or military officials knew bin Laden was in the
country before he was killed by U.S. commandos in a raid 50
kilometers (30 miles) north of the capital.  Relations took another hit today as at least one newspaper
and a television station reported a meeting between ISI Director
General Lieutenant General Ahmed Shuja Pasha and someone they
identified by name as the CIA station chief in Islamabad.  The CIA in December withdrew its station chief in Islamabad
because of threats against him after he was identified in the
Pakistani media, Reuters reported citing an unnamed U.S.
intelligence official.  There currently are no plans to pull the CIA’s chief of
station out of Pakistan, a U.S. official said on condition of
anonymity.  Bin Laden Network  President  Barack Obama , in an interview on CBS’s “60
Minutes” program yesterday, said the U.S. suspects that there
was some sort of support network for bin Laden in Pakistan that
the government there needs to investigate.  Pakistan’s investigation will be led by an army general,
Gilani said. Senior military officers will brief Parliament May
13 on the incident, he said.  Pakistan attaches great importance to ties with the U.S.,
the prime minister said. In a separate statement, army chief
Ashfaq Parvez Kayani said he had requested Gilani brief
Parliament on the events in Abbottabad.  The speech was less critical of the U.S. than it might have
been had Gilani condemned the American raid or ordered other
action, said Marvin Weinbaum, an Afghanistan and Pakistan
analyst in the State Department’s bureau of intelligence
research until 2003.  ‘Worst Nightmare’  “Pakistan’s political leadership knows this is a
relationship that is important”to its survival, Weinbaum said
in a telephone interview. “The worst nightmare” for Pakistani
leaders is that they push the U.S. toward the Indians, he said.  Gilani may have been alluding to  India  when he cautioned
against “wrong conclusions” from the raid. India’s military
chief, General V.K. Singh, and Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik said
last week that their country also had the capability to strike
against terrorists inside Pakistani cities, The Times of India
reported on May 6.  “Any attack against Pakistan’s strategic assets, whether
overt or covert, will find a matching response,” Gilani said.
“Pakistan reserves the right to retaliate with full force. No
one should underestimate the resolve and capability of our
nation and armed forces to defend our sacred homeland.”  The comment is unlikely to have referred to the U.S.,
Weinbaum said.  “They would be loath to get into any military
confrontation with the  United States ,” he said.  Obama spoke with India’s Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh 
this morning about the raid and the “strategic partnership”
between the two nations, the administration said in a statement.  ‘Transparent Inquiry’  While ordinary Pakistanis and opposition parties have
demanded answers from the government and military, analysts said
the administration of President Asif Ali Zardari was unlikely to
be badly damaged.  “I don’t think there is an immediate threat to this
government despite rising criticism both in the country and
abroad,” said Nasir Zaidi, an analyst at the Institute of
Regional Studies in Islamabad. “The U.S. has yet not blamed the
Pakistani government for bin Laden’s presence. Zardari’s biggest
challenge now is to control the damage by conducting a
transparent inquiry.”  Zardari’s main opposition, the Pakistan Muslim League led
by former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , will meet in Islamabad
tomorrow to discuss the U.S. raid.  ‘Facts, Fiction’  “Pakistan’s independence has been hurt and Pakistanis are
deeply worried,” Sharif told reporters in Lahore today. “The
nation may face a crisis if the right steps are not taken.”  In the U.S., debate has focused on whether Pakistani
officials helped bin Laden hide for years in one of their
country’s main military centers. CIA director Leon Panetta, in a
May 3 interview with Time magazine, said U.S. officials planning
the raid “decided that any effort to work with the Pakistanis
could jeopardize the mission” because “they might alert the
targets.”  The U.S. military says its war against the Taliban in
 Afghanistan  is hindered by neighboring Pakistan’s failure to
shut down safe havens for militants on its soil. Many U.S. drone
attacks target the district of North Waziristan, which the U.S.
says is home to both Taliban and al-Qaeda guerrillas.  Senator  Carl Levin  and other U.S. lawmakers have called for
a review of aid to Pakistan, which in fiscal year 2010 rose to
$4.35 billion, according to the  Congressional Research Service .  “We have to separate facts from fiction,” Gilani said
during his address. “Pakistan can’t be held accountable for the
flawed policies of the past that created al-Qaeda,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 