-- 
Pakistan Will Allow U.S. Officials to Question Osama Bin Laden’s Widows

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r   a n d   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-05-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pakistan-will-allow-u-s-to-question-osama-bin-laden-s-wives.html
Pakistan  will allow the U.S. to
question the three wives of  Osama bin Laden  who were with him in
the compound where American commandos killed the al-Qaeda leader
last week, granting a measure of cooperation amid tensions
following the raid.  The Obama administration expects to get access to the women
soon, based on a response from the Pakistani government, a U.S.
official said yesterday on condition of anonymity. The specific
timing of the access wasn’t set, the official said.  The decision followed verbal skirmishing between the two
countries. Pakistani officials have said that the U.S. should
have informed Pakistan of the operation in advance. U.S.
officials have questioned how much Pakistani authorities knew
about  bin Laden ’s presence in their country.  The Obama administration said yesterday that it wouldn’t
apologize for entering Pakistan to raid bin Laden’s compound, as
the South Asian country’s prime minister tried to counter
domestic criticism over the military’s failure to detect and
stop the U.S. attack.  “We obviously take the statements and concerns of the
Pakistani government seriously,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said yesterday, speaking after Pakistan’s prime
minister,  Yousuf Raza Gilani , addressed the Parliament in
Islamabad. “But we also do not apologize for the actions that
we took.”  U.S. Reliance  The Obama administration, while expressing suspicions about
Pakistani aid to bin Laden, aims to preserve a relationship that
has allowed CIA drone strikes against militants and at least
partly stemmed the flow of fighters into neighboring
 Afghanistan . The U.S. also relies on Pakistan for transit of
supplies from ports on its southern coast for the U.S.-led
coalition fighting insurgents in the war next door.  The U.S. will know soon “just how and by whom bin Laden
was protected in Pakistan for a decade as it goes through the
computers and documents snatched in the raid,” Bruce Riedel, a
former CIA officer and counterterrorism adviser to the U.S.
government, said by e-mail. Evidence of ties between bin Laden
and Pakistan’s army or intelligence services would move the
relationship “from crisis to confrontation,” he said.  The three wives are among an unspecified number of women
and children who survived the assault on the compound and were
left behind.  Three Wives  Pakistani authorities have said they found the three wives
and nine children at the site. In addition to bin Laden, three
men and one of their wives were killed during the raid. Only bin
Laden’s body was removed, according to the U.S. One of the men
killed was his son, and the other two were couriers; no other
adult males were left behind, the U.S. official said.  While there has been a war of words, the Pentagon says
supply convoys to Afghanistan continue to operate and Pakistan
has not imposed any new restrictions on the 300 U.S. military
trainers and other personnel who have been working with the
Pakistani army to improve its counterinsurgency capabilities.  The U.S. also said it had no plans to pull the CIA’s
station chief from Pakistan after at least one newspaper and a
television station there named someone they said held that
position.  Pakistani Investigation  Gilani, the prime minister, said the army would lead an
investigation of intelligence failures that allowed bin Laden to
go undetected. Authorities also will review why its military
failed to react to the U.S. operation that killed the al-Qaeda
chief in a house in Abbottabad, near the country’s most
prestigious military academy.  President  Barack Obama , in an interview broadcast May 8 on
CBS’s “60 Minutes” program, said the U.S. suspects that bin
Laden had a support network in Pakistan and that the government
there needs to investigate.  Gilani said bin Laden’s killing was “justice” for the
terrorist attacks the al-Qaeda leader had ordered, including
those against Pakistani citizens. Pakistan’s Inter-Services
Intelligence agency, or ISI, had provided leads that eventually
helped locate bin Laden, he said.  Gilani was less critical of the U.S. than he might have
been, said Marvin Weinbaum, an Afghanistan and Pakistan analyst
in the State Department’s bureau of intelligence research until
2003 and now a scholar in residence at the  Middle East Institute 
in Washington.  ‘Worst Nightmare’  “Pakistan’s political leadership knows this is a
relationship that is important” to its survival, Weinbaum said
in a telephone interview. The “worst nightmare” for Pakistani
leaders is that they push the U.S. toward  India , he said.  Obama spoke with India’s Prime Minister Manmohan Singh
yesterday morning about the raid and the “strategic
partnership” between the two nations, the administration said
in a statement.  Gilani may have been alluding to India when he cautioned
against “wrong conclusions” from the raid. India’s military
chief, General V.K. Singh, and Air Chief Marshal P.V. Naik said
last week that their country also had the capability to strike
against terrorists inside Pakistani cities, The Times of India
reported on May 6.  While ordinary Pakistanis and opposition parties have
demanded answers from the government and the military, analysts
said the administration of President Asif Ali Zardari was
unlikely to be badly damaged.  “The U.S. has yet not blamed the Pakistani government for
bin Laden’s presence. Zardari’s biggest challenge now is to
control the damage by conducting a transparent inquiry,” said
Nasir Zaidi, an analyst at the  Institute of Regional Studies  in
Islamabad.  Zardari’s main opposition, the Pakistan Muslim League led
by former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif , will meet in Islamabad
today to discuss the U.S. raid.  “Pakistan’s independence has been hurt and Pakistanis are
deeply worried,” Sharif told reporters in Lahore yesterday.
“The nation may face a crisis if the right steps are not
taken.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net ;
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  