-- 
Party On! With Trophy Wines, Bigger May Be Better: John Mariani

-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 
2011-05-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/party-on-imposing-nebuchadnezzar-promises-wine-extravagance-john-mariani.html
Connoisseurs -- very rich connoisseurs
-- will pay big bucks for a case, even a bottle of a rare wine.
But the biggest trophies at wine auctions are the so-called
large format bottles.  At last year’s  Auction Napa Valley , an eight magnum bottle
of  Colgin Cellars’s  Cariad, with dinner for six, went for
$250,000. Owner Ann Colgin then offered to replicate the lot for
four bidders to bid $250,000 each.  This March in Chicago,  Hart Davis Wine Company  auctions
sold a single imperial of 1982 Lafite-Rothschild for nearly
$42,000.  The appeal of these bottles is clearly their impressive
size: a magnum holds two regular, 750 ml bottles; a jeroboam,
four; rehoboam, six; an imperial or Methuselah, eight; on up to
a Nebuchadnezzar, 20. An added virtue is that these bottles are
said to age more slowly because of the ratio of wine to oxygen
in the neck.  “People who entertain a large group frequently favor big
bottles out of convenience,” said Peter Meltzer, auction
correspondent for  Wine Spectator  and author of  “Keys to the
Cellar: Strategies and Secrets of Wine Collecting”  in a phone
interview. “In the fine wine auction world, sales of large
format bottles are considered a reflection of the economy.  “When times are good, people won’t hesitate to uncork a big
bottle, but during a recession they scale back on purchasing
them. When the economy improves, they can either drink up or re-
sell the bottles.”  Added Glamour  This assertion is backed up by Piero Selvaggio, owner of
 Valentino  restaurant in  Santa Monica , CA, where he cellars
75,000 bottles, with 250 of them in large formats. “When the
economy was booming, I once sold a Nebuchadnezzar to a party,”
he told me, “but the recession has blunted that kind of
extravagance. These days some customers want to bring their own
big bottles, and I charge a $50 corkage fee.”  For the most part large formats are made by the most
illustrious Bordeaux and Burgundy estates, which usually grab
the highest auction prices. A few California cult wineries also
make some big bottles, in most cases donated to charity
auctions.  At restaurants, large bottles create a more celebratory
atmosphere at the table. “I tell my customers that a magnum is
an ideal size when dining with six to eight people,” says Linda
Gerin, partner and wine director at Restaurant  Jean-Louis  in
Greenwich, CT. “One bottle is not enough and as long as you’re
having two, uncorking a magnum has a real glamour about it.”  High Rollers  In fact, big bottles can be the most sensible way to go for
certain celebrations. “ Las Vegas  is the perfect city for large
formats,” Jennifer Eby, wine manager at  Bartolotta Ristorante
di Mare at Wynn Las Vegas  told me. “We serve our food family
style, often to large tables, and I suggest a large format as
being easier and more festive.”  Asked about what wines freebie-loving high rollers order,
Eby said, “The hotel wants to look after those guests and they
drink whatever they want, but they really don’t take advantage
by ordering big bottles.  Our Asian guests almost never do and
tend to be very modest in their consumption of wine.”  The more dedicated to stocking huge cellars a restaurant
is, the more large format bottles it will carry. The cellar at
 Charlie Trotter’s  in  Chicago  holds more than 130 large formats,
including one of only five imperials ever made of Penfolds 1990
“Grange.”  At  Valbella  in Riverside, CT, wine director Nick Zherka
offers a Methuselah of Richebourg, Domaine de la Romanee Conti
1996 for $22,000. When I asked if that was negotiable, he said,
“Well, maybe $21,000.”  Birthday Boys  For the individual there are big risks in buying big
bottles as investments. Rarely would the investor get a better
price re-selling to a wine store or restaurant -- and then only
in a state where it is legal to re-sell wines. Auction houses
post estimate prices at the going rate.  Crucial for the seller, says, Meltzer, is that “whatever
you do, you must keep the wines in a professional, temperature
controlled facility, so that an auction house can vouch for how
it had been stored.”  There’s no real way, shy of opening and tasting them, to
know if the wines will be sound in years to come, or if in
vertical vintages, any one of them may have gone bad. Which is
why so many large format bottles are just sold and re-sold and
never drunk at all. In which case, you are selling an artifact,
not a work of art.  It makes more sense to buy a big bottle at a retail store
for a special occasion, as I did when my sons were born, in 1980
and 1985 respectively.  I put the bottles away for their 21st birthdays, when the
magnums made quite splash. Rarely had I enjoyed a wine more and
it was money very well spent.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 