-- 
Pfizer Pneumonia Shot Shown Effective in Ages 50 and Older

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-05-09T20:27:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pfizer-pneumonia-shot-shown-effective-in-ages-50-and-older-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s pneumonia vaccine, the
company’s fastest-growing drug by sales, was found effective in
two studies of adults over the age of 50, supporting the
company’s regulatory application to expand the product’s use.  The vaccine, Prevnar 13, produced a stronger immune
response against pneumococcal bacteria than an older vaccine
from Merck & Co. that’s currently recommended for adults 65 and
older, according to Emilio Emini, New York-based Pfizer’s head
of vaccine research. The results are being presented this week
at the  European Congress of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious
Diseases  in Milan.  Pfizer’s Prevnar is cleared for use in children up to 6
years of age. Sales of the vaccine, which includes Prevnar 13
and an older version called Prevnar 7, jumped 43 percent in the
first quarter to $1.15 billion from a year earlier. Pfizer, the
world’s biggest drugmaker, applied in December for U.S. approval
for older adults based on data from the two studies, and expects
a decision from U.S. regulators in October.  “We’ve got the data to show that this gives rise to a very
good immune response,” Emini said in a telephone interview.
“The argument is that every adult, as they get older, needs to
get this vaccine.”  Pfizer rose 5 cents to $20.60 at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has gained 25 percent in
the past 12 months.  About 50,000 people in the U.S. die from pneumonia in the
lungs and invasive infections of pneumococcal bacteria in the
bloodstream each year, according to the U.S.  Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention  in Atlanta. Sales of Prevnar will exceed
$5.5 billion by 2015, according to the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  30-Year-old Vaccine  A different form of pneumonia shot, called a polyvalent
polysaccharide vaccine, was first approved more than 30 years
ago and is now sold by Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based
Merck as Pneumovax, with $376 million in sales last year. That
type of vaccine, which trains the immune system to fight 23
strains of pneumococcal bacteria, isn’t recommended for most
children because their immune systems don’t respond to it. In
adults, its protection wanes with time, and booster shots become
increasingly less effective, Emini said.  Prevnar attaches immune-boosting antigens to protein
carriers designed to trigger a stronger and longer-lasting
response than previous vaccines.  Pfizer compared Prevnar 13 to  Pneumovax  in a study of 938
patients ages 70 and older who had received a pneumonia shot
five years previously. Patients who were given a follow-up shot
of Prevnar 13 had significantly higher levels of antibodies in
their blood for 11 strains of pneumococcal bacteria and similar
levels for 2 strains. Prevnar 13 doesn’t protect against 10
additional rare strains that are covered by Pneumovax. A second
shot of Prevnar 13 a year later showed a similar immune system
response.  Pneumonia Susceptibility  At age 50, people become more susceptible to pneumonia.
However, Merck’s shot isn’t approved for the age group. Because
its effectiveness fades with time, doctors reserve it for people
over age 65, who are most vulnerable to infection. Pfizer aims
to target adults beginning at age 50, because patients respond
to each booster of Prevnar 13 as well as if it were their first
shot, Emini said.  In the second study, Prevnar 13 successfully created
antibodies in 404 patients ages 50 to 59 who had never received
a pneumonia vaccine. The company is now studying how often
adults would need booster shots to maintain protection, Emini
said.  Never Vaccinated  In a separate arm of that study, Prevnar 13 was compared
with Merck’s shot in 835 patients ages 60 through 64 who had
never been vaccinated. Prevnar 13 was more effective at mounting
a response to 9 types of the bacteria and at least as good as
Pneumovax with the four remaining strains.  Today’s studies measure bacteria-fighting antibodies in the
blood. Pfizer is also conducting a test in 85,000 adults in the
Netherlands to prove the drug reduces cases of pneumonia.
Results of that study may not be available for several years,
Emini said. The company earlier agreed with regulators that the
antibody studies being presented in Milan may be sufficient to
gain initial approval while the company awaits results from the
larger study of pneumonia cases.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in New York at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 