-- 
TPG-Backed Company Acquires Powerfuel’s Carbon Capture Project in U.K.

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-05-09T11:56:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/tpg-backed-company-acquires-powerfuel-s-carbon-capture-project-in-u-k-.html
2Co Energy Ltd ., a British carbon
emissions reduction company owned by the private equity group
TPG Capital, acquired Powerfuel Power Ltd. and its Hatfield
carbon capture and storage project in northern  England .  The South Yorkshire complex will be renamed the Don Valley
Power Project and generate 900 megawatts of low-carbon
electricity from 2015 with CCS technology fitted to it, London-
based 2Co Energy said today in an e-mailed statement.  Powerfuel Power’s parent company Powerfuel Plc went into
administration in December and 2Co was appointed preferred
bidder for the company in March. KPMG Europe LLP acted as
advisers to the sale. Terms weren’t disclosed.  Don Valley will capture as much as 5 million tons of carbon
dioxide a year for storage beneath the North Sea, according to
the statement. The U.K. government has said it will fund four of
the projects that demonstrate CCS technology, which siphons
smokestack emissions for storage underground, as it seeks to cut
fossil-fuel emissions linked to  climate change .  The project, in partnership with National Grid Plc, won a
180 million-euro ($260 million) grant in December 2009 under the
European Union’s European Energy Program for Recovery. 2Co
Energy will provide the financial guarantees that the European
Commission requires for a 45 million-euro pre-financing payment
to be made, according to the statement. That will enable the
grant money to be used to progress the project, 2Co said.  Among Most Advanced  The project is among the most advanced CCS projects in the
world, according to 2Co. “The political will to make this
project happen is considerable,” Lewis Gillies, chief executive
of 2Co and former BP Plc executive, said in the statement. The
project also applied for funds under a further program run by
the EC to support CCS and renewable technologies, the  New
Entrants’ Reserve 300 .  Today is the deadline for when member states must submit
eligible projects to the  European Investment Bank , which is
helping implement the initiative, for further assessment.  The National Grid and 2Co Energy will examine two options
for storing the CO2 in the next year or so, according to the
statement. 2Co Energy will evaluate the potential for enhanced
oil recovery in the central North Sea. That technology boosts
the amount of oil that can be extracted from fields by
injecting CO2 into mature reserves to thin out deposits, making
removal easier and prolonging the lifespan of fields.  “The potential for using CO2 for Enhanced Oil Recovery
could help meet U.K. fiscal needs as it would bring access to
taxation revenue from extra North Sea oil production and
significantly reduce the overall cost of CCS to the U.K.,”
Gillies said.  CCS Cluster  The National Grid, owner of the electricity transmission
network in England and  Wales , will focus on saline formations in
the southern North Sea that could be used for 2Co’s project or
future projects, according to the statement.  Don Valley has a vital role in developing a CCS "cluster"
in the region, Chris Train, National Grid’s network operations
director, said. The Humberside area in northern England has a
number of power stations and heavy industry that could share
potential storage sites, according to a separate statement from
the National Grid.  The National Grid already began work on designing a carbon
dioxide pipeline linking the sites, which emit about 60 million
tons of CO2 per year. 2Co enlisted Talisman Energy Inc. to study
the potential for enhanced oil recovery in the  North Sea  and CO2
storage, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Randall Hackley at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net  