-- 
TPG Said to Seek Asia Chairman to Assist Expansion in China

-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 
2011-05-09T00:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/tpg-said-to-seek-asia-chairman-to-assist-expansion-in-china.html
TPG Capital, the buyout firm that
manages $48 billion, is seeking a chairman for its Asian
operations to help it compete for investments in  China , said
three people with knowledge of the matter.  The Fort Worth, Texas-based company wants a Chinese speaker
and has held discussions with several candidates, the people
said, asking not to be identified because the process is private.  TPG has invested $8.1 billion in Asia since the start of
2008, more than  Carlyle Group  and KKR & Co., according to
estimates by the Asian Venture Capital Journal. Two senior TPG
managers, Shan Weijian and Mary Ma, left in the past year to
join other asset managers.  In China, Asia’s biggest private-equity market over the
past three years, foreign buyout firms are facing stiffer
competition from local rivals, as former executives at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. set up their
own funds.  Ma, the former  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  chief financial officer
who joined TPG in 2007, quit this year to help ex-Ping An
President Louis Cheung start private equity firm Boyu Capital
Ltd. Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s charity foundation said
last month it agreed to invest in a Boyu Capital fund.  Tim Payne, a spokesman for TPG at public relations firm
Brunswick Group in Hong Kong, declined to comment.  TPG, founded by David Bonderman and  Jim Coulter , in the
past six years bought stakes in Chinese companies in industries
ranging from solar energy to supermarkets and finance. It has
also announced two yuan-denominated funds in the Chongqing
municipality in central China and  Shanghai , following Carlyle
and  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  in raising money in the Chinese currency.  Shan Departure  The firm’s Asia-Pacific team is currently led by Hong Kong-
based Stephen Peel, who took over from Dan Carroll in 2009 when
Carroll returned to  San Francisco  after spending three years in
Asia. Timothy Dattels, a partner at TPG, helps oversee
investments in Asia while spending most of his time in San
Francisco.  Shan Weijian, a former partner in TPG’s Hong Kong office,
left last year to join Pacific Alliance Group, an Asia-based
alternative investment manager, as chairman and chief executive
officer. Shan helped TPG buy a stake in China’s  Shenzhen
Development Bank Co. (000001)  in December 2004, one of the company’s most
profitable investments in  Asia .  TPG sold its stake in the lender in 2009 to Ping An,
China’s second-biggest insurer. The fund has since raised $2.44
billion by selling Ping An shares it received in the deal. TPG’s
Newbridge Capital LLC paid about $145 million for the Shenzhen
Bank stake in 2004.  CICC Investment  Carlyle invested $6.2 billion in the region since the
beginning of 2008 and KKR made $6.4 billion of deals in the same
period, AVCJ estimates. Some 19% of TPG’s Asian investments were
in China, compared with 14 percent for Carlyle and 24 percent
for KKR, according to the researcher.  In the past seven months, TPG bought stakes in  China
International Capital Corp. , the first Sino-foreign investment
bank; Comtec Solar Systems Group Ltd.; and  Hong Kong  Energy
Holdings Ltd., a developer of renewable-energy projects focusing
on China.  Private-equity investments in China jumped 40 percent to
$19.7 billion last year, according to AVCJ. The nation accounted
for 37 percent of Asian deals last year, an increase from 29
percent in 2009, the researcher estimates.  TPG last month sold a minority stake to the Government of
Singapore Investment Corp. and the  Kuwait Investment Authority ,
using the proceeds to finance expansion of new and existing
lines of business and into emerging markets, according to a
person briefed on the decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  