-- 
Philadelphia Orchestra Escrows Ticket Money in Case Performances Canceled

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-05-09T20:12:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/philadelphia-orchestra-escrows-ticket-money-in-case-performances-canceled.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra Association
is keeping money from tickets sales for next season’s concerts
in escrow in case the bankrupt symphony owner must cancel
performances, an attorney said in court today.  Larry McMichael, an attorney for the association, said the
111-year-old orchestra expects to put on its next regular
season, which starts in October. The escrow account was arranged
should the orchestra, which says it has a $14 million deficit,
issue refunds to its annual subscribers and other ticket buyers,
McMichael told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Eric Frank.  “I can’t think of any scenario where we are not going to
have a season,” McMichael said in an interview. “At the same
time, we want to be very careful with our subscribers’ money.
People know they can subscribe now and they are going to get
their money back should something happen.”  The Philadelphia Orchestra is the first major symphonic
orchestra to file bankruptcy in the U.S., according to lawyers
involved in the case. The association blamed the bankruptcy in
part on the high cost of musicians’ pensions and said in court
papers that it must renegotiate their labor contract.  The association is also locked in a dispute with Grammy-
winning pianist Peter Nero, artistic director of the Philly Pops
orchestra. Days before the orchestra’s bankruptcy filing, Nero
won an arbitration case against the association.  The association wants to cancel its participation in the
Philly Pops because the annual series of concerts costs it at
least $600,000, Richard B. Worley, chairman of the orchestra,
said in an interview.  The Philly Pops 2011-2012 season has not yet been scheduled
because of the dispute. The last of the Pops concerts are
scheduled to take place this month.  The case is In Re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 