-- 
Gross Boosts Bet Against Government-Related Debt Amid Rally

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-05-10T02:27:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pimco-s-gross-increased-his-bet-against-government-related-debt-in-april.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.,
increased his bet against U.S. government debt in April just as
Treasuries had their biggest rally in eight months.  Pimco’s $240.7 billion Total Return Fund had minus 4
percent of its assets in government and related debt, versus
negative 3 percent in March. Cash and equivalents, the largest
component, rose to 37 percent of holdings from 31 percent.
Mortgage bonds declined to 24 percent from 28 percent, the
Newport Beach, California-based company said on its  website .  Gross, 67, has been warning that the threat of inflation
will be bad for Treasuries even as other investors snapped up
the securities.  U.S. government debt  returned 1.15 percent in
April, the most since August, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Yields will stay low,  Jim Caron , the New
York-based global head of interest-rate strategy at Morgan
Stanley, wrote in a report.  “We sold Treasuries and we bought other bonds,” Gross
said in a May 6 interview with  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance.” Pimco expects “a mild  bear market 
in bonds. Inflation I think is the ultimate factor. It threatens,
in my view, to move slightly higher.”  Monthly Return  U.S. debt  has returned another 0.7 percent in May, the Bank
of America figures show. Benchmark 10-year yields were little
changed at 3.16 percent as of 11:21 a.m. in  Tokyo . They fell to
3.13 percent on May 6, the lowest since December.  Real 10-year yields, or the difference between the  consumer
price index  and the Treasury rate, declined to 0.45 percent on
May 6, the least since 2008. Based on two-year Treasuries, the
real yield is negative 2.15 percent.  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, has widened to
2.49 percentage points from 2.12 percentage points six months
ago. The average over the past decade is 2.10 percentage points.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund returned 7.4 percent in the past
year, beating 84 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The fund gained 1.6 percent in the past
month, better than about 30 percent of its competitors. Pimco is
a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE .  TIPs  The Total Return Fund held TIPS equal to 3 percent of
assets and had no Treasuries or U.S. agency debt at the end of
April, the figures in its website showed. It had a negative 7
percent allocation to other government-related securities, a
category that can include interest-rate swaps, Treasury futures
and options and corporate securities guaranteed by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., according to Pimco.  The fund can have a so-called negative position by using
derivatives, futures or by shorting. Shorting is borrowing and
selling an asset in anticipation of making a profit by buying it
back after its price has fallen.  U.S. employment isn’t strong enough to get the  Federal
Reserve  to raise  interest rates , Morgan Stanley’s Caron wrote in
his May 6 report. The central bank has kept its target for
overnight lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 to support the economy.  “We expect yields to remain low,” Caron wrote. “Only if
short-rate expectations materially started to rise would we
change this view.”  Rate Bets  The odds of a Fed increase by March have fallen to 33
percent from 61 percent a month ago, futures contracts indicate.
Investors were reassured by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who
said April 27 that the central bank will keep reinvesting
proceeds of maturing debt after ending large-scale bond
purchases in June.  The benchmark target at virtually zero poses an immediate
threat to bondholders amid accelerating inflation and negative
real yields, Gross wrote in his May investment outlook.  “Holding Treasuries at these yield levels for an extended
period of time represents an abdication of responsibility,”
Gross wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 