-- 
Endesa’s HidroAysen Project Approved by Chilean Authorities Amid Protests

-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e   a n d   R a n d y   W o o d s
-- 
2011-05-09T22:02:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pinera-uses-chile-mine-rescue-head-to-sell-patagonia-hydro-power-project.html
The  HidroAysen  project, designed to be
Chile’s biggest power generator, was approved by a regional
environment commission in the southern city of Coyhaique today.  Hundreds of protesters shouted and banged drums outside the
building as 11 of the 12 commission members voted in favor of
the project that Empresa Nacional de Electricidad SA and  Colbun
SA (COLBUN)  want to build in the Patagonia region.  HidroAysen involves five dams and a 1,900 kilometer (1,180
mile) transmission line to feed the central grid that supplies
Santiago and surrounding cities as well as copper mines owned by
Codelco and Anglo American Plc. The government of President
Sebastian Pinera says Chile needs more hydroelectric and coal-
fired plants to meet demand that will double in the next decade
and reduce power costs that are the highest in the region.  “We have to get that energy somewhere, independent of what
the project is, because energy today is twice as expensive as in
other Latin American countries,” Ena Von Baer, the government’s
spokeswoman, told reporters in Santiago today before the vote.
“We want to be a developed country, and to become so we need
energy, especially cheap energy for the poor.”  Shares of Colbun and Endesa  Chile  rose 1 percent and 1.4
percent, respectively, in Santiago trading today as investors
speculated on a favorable outcome in today’s vote.  With capacity to produce 2,750 megawatts, about 35 percent
of the country’s current power consumption, the project would
dwarf Ralco, Chile’s biggest hydro-generator at about 760
megawatts, on the Bio Bio River. The project’s owners plan to
seek approval for the transmission line later this year.  Snow-Topped Mountains  Some protestors threw dirt and stones at the sports utility
vehicle that brought the government’s regional representative
Pilar Cuevas to the environment authority’s office today.  Non-profit group  Patagonia Without Dams  has erected
billboards showing electricity pylons blotting a landscape of
rugged snow-topped mountains and green fields sandwiched between
 Argentina  and Pacific fjords.  “Here we don’t need all this energy that they are going to
generate,” said Gloria Hernandez, an adviser to the Catholic
Church in Aysen. “They are going to deliver it to the mining
companies in the north.”  HidroAysen runs television adverts emphasizing the need for
new energy sources by showing a floodlit stadium plunged into
darkness during a soccer match. The project is clean, renewable
and will bring jobs to the region, Michel Moure, HidroAysen’s
head of operations, said today. At least a fifth of the
workforce will be sourced locally, Moure told the commission.  Doubling Growth  Pinera, the billionaire entrepreneur-turned-politician who
assumed the presidency in March 2010, is targeting average
annual growth of 6 percent over his four-year term, double the
average under the previous administration.  So far this year, authorities have granted Santiago-based
 Empresas Copec SA (COPEC)  a permit to build a $500 million  coal mine  on
a Patagonian island and approved Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista ’s plans for a $4.4 billion thermoelectric plant.
HidroAysen “would be good” for Chile, Interior Minister
Rodrigo Hinzpeter told Duna radio station before the vote today.  “This government is going to take the bull by the horns
and make the decisions that are required in the energy sector to
ensure supplies in the long term,” Energy and Mining Minister
 Laurence Golborne  said in a May 5 interview in Santiago.  Gabriel Silber , an opposition lower-house member, filed an
injunction against the HidroAysen vote in a local appeals court
on the grounds that some regulators have vested interests in the
project. While the court allowed today’s vote to proceed, it may
overturn the result, Silber told reporters from Coyhaique.  The government has put undue pressure on regulators to
approve HidroAysen, Senator Patricio Walker of the opposition
 Christian Democrat  party said at today’s commission meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net  or
Matthew Craze at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman@bloomberg.net  