-- 
Poland to Leave Main Interest Rate Unchanged on Zloty Exchange Agreement

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   M o n i k a   R o z l a l
-- 
2011-05-10T08:17:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/poland-to-leave-main-rate-unchanged-on-zloty-exchange-agreement.html
Poland ’s central bank will probably
leave interest rates unchanged at a meeting that starts today,
after policy makers won time to deliberate by getting a pledge
from the government to join the fight against inflation.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw will keep the benchmark
seven-day interest rate at 4 percent, according to 24 of 31
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The decision will be
announced tomorrow after 12 p.m. Seven analysts predicted an
increase to 4.25 percent.  The government and central bank agreed last month to combat
the fastest inflation in 2 1/2 years by selling euros to
strengthen the zloty. That may help policy makers avoid raising
rates at consecutive meetings and comply with a Jan. 4 call for
“gradual” increases by Governor  Marek Belka , who has said the
pace of price growth is a “serious but temporary” problem.  “The central bank governor has signaled clearly that he is
against the rate increase in May,” said  Marcin Mrowiec , chief
economist at  Bank Pekao SA (PEO)  in Warsaw.  The zloty rose to 3.9271 per euro at 9:50 a.m. in Warsaw
from 3.936 late yesterday. The zloty has gained 0.5 percent
against the euro this year, lagging behind east European
currencies including the Hungarian forint, which surged 5.2
percent, and the Czech koruna, which advanced 3.5 percent.  Exchanging euros received from the European Union for zloty
“may ease pressure to increase interest rates,” Finance
Minister Jacek Rostowski said April 21 as the government and the
central bank announced their agreement.  Scaled-Back Expectations  Investors in the  derivatives market  have scaled back bets
on rate increases within the next three months. Three-month
forward-rate agreements are currently trading 29 basis points
above the three-month Warsaw interbank offered rate, compared
with 41 basis points on April 21.  Monetary authorities around the world are struggling to
contain inflation caused by higher oil and food prices. Several
countries in eastern  Europe , including Hungary and  Russia ,
started raising interest rates to slow inflation.  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
signaled the bank will wait until after June to raise interest
rates again. The ECB increased the benchmark rate by a quarter-
point to 1.25 percent in April, before leaving borrowing costs
unchanged at a policy meeting on May 5.  Polish monetary policy makers in January agreed on this
year’s “action scenario” of two to four quarter-point rate
increases, central banker  Adam Glapinski  said April 17. The
Narodowy Bank Polski on April 5 raised the rate for a second
time this year.  Inflation Outlook  The inflation rate, which in March soared to 4.3 percent in
March, has stayed above the central bank’s 2.5 percent target
since October. Policy makers expect the pace of increases to
slow in the second half.  “A rate increase in May could suggest that the council has
become worried with inflation, which could be a signal to
boost” inflation expectations, said  Mateusz Szczurek , chief
economist at ING Bank Slaski.  Polish companies and households in April expected an annual
inflation rate of 4 percent within the next 12 months, down from
4.6 percent in March, according to the central bank’s April 29
report. The March figure was the highest since January 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net ;
Monika Rozlal in Warsaw at 
 mrozlal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  