-- 
Pricey Warhols Make Lousy Investment: Mao Beats $30 Million Liz

-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 
2011-05-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/pricey-warhols-make-lousy-investments-mao-beats-cohen-s-20-million-liz.html
As postwar and contemporary art
auctions begin in New York this week, 66 Andy Warhol lots will
test the market’s appetite for one of its biggest stars. What’s
the best buy?  “As an investor, you’d be better off putting the money
into a mid-tier category,” said  Anders Petterson , founder of
London-based art-market research firm  ArtTactic  Ltd., speaking
at a recent  conference  in New York. “There’s still a sense of
rarity in this segment, but at the same time more liquidity than
at the high end.”  Art is a tricky investment, its value influenced by
economic cycles, clandestine deals, irregular supply and demand,
plus sudden shifts in taste.  Warhol prices this week range from a simple black-and-white
photo-booth strip estimated at $10,000 to $15,000 to a stark red
self-portrait with spiky hair on black background for $30
million to $40 million.  The mid-tier market falls between $500,000 and $5 million.
In 2010, buyers in this category snapped up works from the
“Mona Lisa” series, smaller Mao paintings, dollar signs, 24-
inch flower paintings and 1963 “Jackie” portraits.  This price bracket accounted for 29 percent of all Warhol
lots sold in 2010, versus 8 percent that fetched $5 million or
more.  Highlights include a somber round 1964 “Jackie”
silkscreen painting from the estate of San Francisco art patron
Dodie Rosekrans with an estimate range of $3 million to $4
million at  Sotheby’s. (BID)   Small Mao  Phillips de Pury has a small 1973 Mao silkscreen painting
with an estimated range of $3.5 million to $4.5 million.
Depicted in a green frock on blue background, this Mao was part
of a batch of Warhols from the Sonnabend Collection acquired by
 Larry Gagosian  in 2008.  Christie’s has a 90-by-70-inch canvas “Diamond Dust
Shoes” (1980-81) in which high-heeled sandals are sprinkled
with diamond dust, for $1 million to $1.5 million.  “If you can buy a 90-by-70 Warhol shoe painting for $1
million, it’s better than owning Google, Microsoft and Facebook
together,” said Alberto Mugrabi, New York-based collector and
dealer in Warhol. “I am not involved in selling this work, but
I will be involved in the buying.”  So let the Russian oligarchs and Arab sheiks compete for
 Steven Cohen ’s aquamarine “Liz” that has a $20 million to $30
million estimate range at Phillips de Pury on May 12.  ‘Trophy Element’  “The top is not driven by pure rational investment
decisions,” said Petterson. “There’s a trophy element of
wanting that piece that you paid the largest amount in the world
for.”  Masterpieces tend to underperform the rest of the market,
and postwar and contemporary art is no exception, according to
research by economists Michael Moses and Jianping Mei.  “The returns on works that were purchased for seven
figures and up are half of the returns on works purchased for
five figures,” said Moses, co-founder of  www.artasanasset.com ,
which calculates financial returns of art transactions.  “That’s not to say that people should stop buying
masterpieces; it just means that they don’t make the best
financial investment.”  (Katya Kazakina is a reporter for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
her own.)  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in  New York  at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 