-- 
Quake to Spur Japan Homebuilding Boom, Sekisui House Says

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 
2011-05-10T07:07:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/quake-to-spur-biggest-japan-home-boom-in-15-years-sekisui-says.html
Sekisui House Ltd. (1928) ,  Japan ’s second-
largest home builder, will focus on the local market after
expanding overseas as it expects the nation’s biggest housing
boom in at least 15 years after the March 11 earthquake.  Housing starts, which dipped below 1 million units in 2009
and 2010 for the first time in four decades, may rebound as
homeowners rebuild after the nation’s strongest temblor, Isami Wada, chairman of the Osaka-based company, said in an interview.  “We had to expand overseas because signs of a slowdown in
Japan’s housing demand were alarming,” Wada said in  Tokyo .
“Unexpectedly, the earthquake struck. I now anticipate annual
housing demand to reach the 1 million-unit level again due to
revival efforts and reconstruction demand.”  Sekisui, which expanded into markets including Australia
and  China  in the past three years, is predicting demand will
exceed that of 1996, a year after the Great Hanshin Earthquake
that hit cities including Kobe, when 1.6 million new homes were
built. Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  has proposed a 4 trillion yen
extra budget that is likely to be the first of several packages
to rebuild areas devastated by March’s magnitude-9 temblor and
tsunami that destroyed and damaged almost 350,000 homes.  Housing starts rose for 10 months through December 1996,
after the 7.3-magnitude Hanshin earthquake hit parts of western
Japan on Jan. 17, 1995, according to government data. Apartments
put up for sale in  Osaka  and its surrounding areas rose 15
percent to 44,430 units that year, according to  the Real Estate
Economic Research Institute .  Greater Need  Prior to the housing boom in 1996, housing starts rose for
21 months ended February 1994, according to Bloomberg data. New
homes built in Japan peaked at 1.7 million in 1990, according to
data from the Land Ministry.  Shares of Sekisui House, which gained as much as 1.2
percent earlier, before closing 0.7 percent lower at 766 yen as
of 3 p.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  New home starts fell to 788,410 units two years ago, the
lowest since 1964, and remained below 1 million last year as
falling wages and mounting job losses sapped demand.  “This time, the earthquake damaged a much wider area,”
said Wada, who is also chief executive officer. “The need for
revival is greater than the Hanshin earthquake. With so many
aftershocks, I expect more home owners will seek to rebuild.”  About 90 percent of the country’s 30.3 million homes
haven’t been assessed for quake resistance, according to Japan’s
Statistics Bureau.  U.S.,  Singapore   Sekisui had expected revenue from its overseas operations
to reach as high as 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) by January
2014. That’s about 13 percent of sales in the past year. Sekisui
and bigger rival Daiwa House Industry Co. have sought revenue
growth overseas because of a decline in Japan’s population and
the slowing economic growth.  Sekisui entered real estate markets in Singapore and the
U.S. by forming alliance with local partners after it
established an overseas division in August 2008. The company is
targeting higher profitability from countries with increasing
population, economic growth and rich in resources, Wada said.  Japan’s extra budget and spending that may benefit the
housing market is putting pressure on the government to raise
taxes, a move that Wada said would hurt the economy,
jeopardizing the revival plan.  “A housing boom can only take place as long as the
 consumption tax  is left alone and the government sells more debt
to boost growth,” Sekisui’s Wada said.  Only 0.4 percent of 29,692 homes built by Sekisui and
located in quake-affected areas were destroyed during the
Hanshin quake, while 9.3 percent of those homes were slightly
damaged, according to the company’s  website .  “We are in the business of protecting people’s life and
assets,” said Wada. “I started to think we are also in the
business of guarding people’s sense of security, providing a
peace of mind by continuing building more quake-resistant
homes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  