-- 
Rajaratnam Jury Listens to 12 More Wiretapped Conversations

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 
2011-05-10T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/rajaratnam-jury-asks-to-hear-more-wiretapped-recordings.html
Jurors didn’t reach a verdict
yesterday in their 10th day of deliberations in the insider-
trading trial of Raj Rajaratnam, after listening to a dozen
wiretapped conversations, most of which were between Rajaratnam
and Rajiv Goel, a former  Intel Corp. (INTC)  executive.  Jurors asked to hear six recordings of phone conversations
between the two men yesterday morning, saying in a note from the
jury foreman that they were intended for the benefit of the
alternate juror, a 39-year-old man from Westchester, who
replaced Juror 2 on May 4.  Shortly after hearing the first set of recordings, jurors
were back in the courtroom listening to six more conversations,
one of which was between the Galleon Group LLC co-founder and
his brother, Rengan Rajaratnam. The rest were between Rajaratnam
and Goel.  The conversations primarily concerned an investment by
Intel in a wireless network company to be formed by  Clearwire
Corp. (CLWR)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and the planned acquisition of
PeopleSupport Inc. by Essar Group, an Indian company. Jurors
will resume deliberations tomorrow.  Rajaratnam, 53, is on trial as part of the largest
crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
Prosecutors said he gained $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about stocks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Intel and Clearwire.  Rajaratnam’s Defense  Rajaratnam defended himself at trial claiming his trades
were the result of Galleon research, not illegal tips.  During the trial, Goel testified that he passed inside
information about Intel’s planned investment in the Clearwire
venture to Rajaratnam, who made about $579,000 in profit from
the information, according to prosecutors. Goel, a former friend
of Rajaratnam, pleaded guilty and testified as a prosecution
witness.  Goel also testified that Rajaratnam made trades in Goel’s
investment account based on inside information about the
PeopleSuppport acquisition.  On May 4, U.S. District Judge Richard Holwell replaced
Juror 2, saying she was forced to withdraw from the panel for
medical reasons that weren’t disclosed publicly. Holwell told
the panel to restart deliberations with the new juror.  Goffer Trial  Yesterday afternoon in a different courtroom, Zvi Goffer, a
former Galleon employee, had a final conference before his
insider-trading trial begins in the same courthouse as
Rajaratnam’s on May 16 before U.S. District Court Judge  Richard Sullivan  in Manhattan.  Goffer, his brother Emanuel Goffer, and Michael Kimelman,
all former traders, are charged with conspiracy and  securities
fraud . They faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the securities fraud.  Prosecutors have placed Zvi Goffer at the center of what
they say is a related insider-trading scheme and claimed his
accomplices called him “Octopussy,” a reference to the 1983
James Bond movie, because of his many sources of information. He
traded on information and tips he got from lawyers at the law
firm or Ropes & Gray LLP. They all deny wrongdoing.  Goffer, who has regularly attended Rajaratnam’s trial, was
part of a second round of defendants arrested charged in 2009 by
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara. He was one of seven people arrested by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation , part of what the U.S. said is the
largest insider trading case of a hedge fund ever brought.  21 Plead Guilty  Of the 26 defendants originally charged in both cases, 21
have pleaded guilty.  Prosecutors said yesterday that Brien Santarlas, a former
Ropes & Gray lawyer, will testify for the government.  Morris Fodeman, a lawyer for Kimelman, told Sullivan that
while there are at least 100 wiretapped telephone calls secretly
recorded by the FBI, he argued that prosecutors should play all
of the calls and not just excerpts “for completeness.”  Assistant Manhattan U.S. Attorney Andrew Fish told Sullivan
yesterday that prosecutors are attempting to narrow down the
tapes to about 60 relevant tapes.  “I think the defense would really love us to play 30
minutes of inane chatter,” Fish said. “The defendants are
trying to bury the relevant parts and have the jury fall asleep
the rest of the time.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  