-- 
Rand Weakens as S&P Cuts Greece’s Credit Rating Two Steps, Bonds Advance

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-05-09T14:44:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/rand-strenghtens-against-dollar-on-foreign-exchange-reserves-bonds-climb.html
The rand weakened against the dollar
after Standard & Poor’s cut  Greece ’s credit ratings, spurring
investors to sell higher-risk assets. Bond yields fell to near a
four-month low before the Reserve Bank’s May 12 rate decision.  The rand depreciated as much as 0.6 percent to 6.7471 per
dollar, and traded 0.5 percent weaker at 6.7380 by 4:19 p.m. in
Johannesburg, reversing its earlier advance. It slipped 0.3
percent to 9.6248 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks fell after Standard & Poor’s cut
Greece’s long-term sovereign credit rating two levels to B from
BB- and said further reductions are possible. South Africa’s
stock index declined 0.9 percent, led by  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the biggest
maker of motor fuels from coal, and BHP Billiton Ltd., the
world’s largest mining company. The MSCI Emerging markets index
lost 0.2 percent.  “The rerating certainly played a role” in the rand’s
decline, Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Capital, a unit of  South Africa ’s
fourth-biggest bank, said by phone. “There is a lot of
uncertainty about  Europe ’s recovery, and a little bit of risk-
off sentiment coming back into the market.”  A year after Greece received a 110 billion-euro ($157
billion) aid package that aimed to stem the spread of the
region’s sovereign crisis, the nation’s debt is rising and it
faces record borrowing costs. Its two-year bonds yield more than
25 percent, indicating investors are betting Greece won’t be
able to return to markets.  Rand Move  Speculation that the Pretoria-based South African Reserve
Bank was buying dollars fueled the rand’s decline, Cruikshanks
said. Trading volumes were low, amplifying the rand’s move, he
added.  “It is rather a thin market, so one big corporate order
resulted in a lasting move,” he said. “There is also talk that
the central bank has been active in the market.”  Earlier, the rand gained after the  Reserve Bank  scaled back
foreign-currency purchases in April, adding $854 million to its
foreign-exchange reserves, down from $1.85 billion in March and
less than the monthly average of $1.75 billion for the first
quarter.  Government bonds  gained for a second day, driving yields to
the lowest level in almost four months, ahead of Thursday’s
Monetary Policy Committee interest rates announcement. The MPC
will hold the benchmark rate at 5.5 percent, according to the
median estimate of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We think the risk is for a less hawkish statement than in
March given the decline in the oil price, a less hawkish
European Central Bank statement and mixed growth data,” Carmen Nel, a fixed-income analyst at Rand Merchant Bank, said in a
research note. “If this scenario plays out, it would favor a
rally in the local  bond market .”  The 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 rose 5 cents to 121.60
rand, driving the yield down one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 7.56 percent, the lowest since Jan. 14. The 6.75
percent securities due 2010 added 46 cents to 88.98, cutting the
yield 7.5 basis points to 8.41 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  