-- 
TransCanada Keystone to Stay Shut While Fittings Inspected

-- B y   A a r o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-05-09T20:07:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/transcanada-keystone-line-shut-for-several-days-after-leak-3-.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone 591,000-
barrel-a-day Keystone oil pipeline, shut May 7 after a leak,
will remain out of service for several more days as workers
inspect fittings like the one that failed.  “Operations will not resume until the company inspects all
similar fittings along the pipeline route,” Terry Cunha, a
spokesman based in the company’s Calgary headquarters, said in
an e-mail. The company shut the pipeline after 500 barrels of
crude leaked at the line’s Ludden pump station in Sargent
County,  North Dakota .  A ¾-inch pipe nipple broke at the pumping station and
caused a leak at 6:26 a.m. local time, according to a  filing 
with the National Response Center. TransCanada workers detected
a drop in pressure at 6:05 a.m. at the pump station and closed
valves on either side of the pump within minutes, Cunha said.  The U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration said it hasn’t issued any enforcement actions and
the company doesn’t need the agency’s approval to restart the
line at this time.  “The majority of the oil that was released from the pump
station was contained on TransCanada property and we are in the
process of cleaning up the area,” Cunha said. “This incident
occurred above ground -- there is no issue with our pipeline but
an issue above ground in the pump station.”  About 280 barrels of oil have been recovered from the site
and “there is no material impact on our customers,” according
to Cunha.  Pipeline Extension  TransCanada completed filling in February an extension and
began crude shipments on the second phase of its Keystone
pipeline project that runs from Steele City,  Nebraska , to
storage tanks in Cushing,  Oklahoma , the largest crude-oil
storage and trading hub in the U.S. and delivery point for New
York Mercantile Exchange crude futures.  The first phase, from Hardisty,  Alberta , to Wood River and
Patoka,  Illinois , started service in mid-2010 with a capacity of
435,000 barrels a day. The extension and additional pumps along
the first phase of the line have increased Keystone’s overall
capacity, according to the company.  TransCanada has shipment contracts to deliver about 155,000
barrels a day into Cushing and 380,000 barrels a day of oil into
Patoka, Illinois,  Paul Miller , senior vice president for oil
pipelines at the Calgary-based TransCanada, said Feb. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Aaron Clark  in New York at 
 aclark27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  