-- 
Treasury Volatility Approaches 4-Year Low with Bonds Rallying

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-05-09T17:34:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/treasury-volatility-approaching-four-year-low-as-bonds-rally-at-end-of-qe2.html
Price swings in the Treasury market
are approaching the smallest levels in four years, a sign that
the end of the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion bond-purchase
program next month won’t cause a sell-off in government debt.  The Merrill Option Volatility Estimate, or MOVE, index fell
to 74.80 basis points on April 25, within 0.7 of its lowest
level since July 2007, just before credit markets seized up and
led to the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
The index is down from a 12-month high of 125.2 on Dec. 15.  For all the concern over the $1.3 trillion  budget deficit 
and a warning from Standard & Poor’s that the U.S.’s AAA credit
rating is in jeopardy, Treasuries posted the best returns in
eight months during April, gaining 1.15 percent, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investors were reassured
by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said he’s in no hurry to
raise  interest rates  and that he will keep reinvesting proceeds
of maturing debt held by the central bank in bonds.  “Volatility is showing the market is not worried about a
massive yield spike” said Laird Landmann, a managing director
at TCW Group Inc., which oversees $65 billion in fixed-income
assets. “The market has given the Fed latitude to be deflation
fighters rather than inflation fighters right now.”  The Fed began a second round of asset purchases that’s been
dubbed quantitative easing, or QE2, in November after buying
$1.7 trillion in securities through last year to help prevent
deflation by increasing the amount of money in circulation. The
Fed has been buying about $75 billion of Treasuries a month in a
program that will end next month.  Falling Yields  The U.S. is counting on the confidence of domestic and
foreign investors to remain high as it sells record amounts of
debt to finance the deficit.  Yields on Treasuries have fallen to an average of 1.81
percent from 5 percent in mid-2007 even though the amount of
marketable  Treasury securities  has risen to $9.14 trillion from
$4.34 trillion, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  The Treasury Department -- which is scheduled to auction
$72 billion of 3-, 10- and 30-year bonds at its so-called
quarterly refunding in coming days -- got a boost last week as
commodities tumbled and investors sought the safest assets.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year note fell 14 basis
points, or 0.14 percentage point, to 3.15 percent, the lowest
level on a closing basis since Dec. 7, based on Bloomberg Bond
Trader Prices. The price of the 3.625 percent note due February
2012 rose 1 6/32, or $11.88 per $1,000 face amount, to 103
31/32. The yield was little changed today.  ‘Left Behind’  Yields have plunged from the highs this year of 3.77
percent on Feb. 9 on concern rising energy and food costs will
restrain the economy after U.S. gross domestic product expanded
at a 1.8 percent annual rate last quarter. That’s the slowest
pace since the three months ended June 30.  “Our economy is far from where we would like it to be, and
many people and neighborhoods are in danger of being left
behind,” Bernanke said in a speech in Arlington,  Virginia , on
April 29. “The broader economy is in a moderate recovery.”  The central bank will keep its target rate for overnight
loans between banks in a range of zero to 0.25 percent through
year-end, according to the median estimate of 80 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. A separate poll shows they expect
10-year yields to remain below 4 percent in 2011.  Fed Driving Volatility  “The primary driver of volatility right now is Fed
policy,” said  Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in New York, one of the 20 primary
dealers that trade with the Fed. “The hurdle to a hike seems
high because of the growth picture and the hurdle to ease is
high because of inflation concerns.”  Volatility averaged 90.75 basis points in the five years
before June 2007, as measured by the MOVE index, which tracks
price swings based on over-the-counter options maturing in 2 to
30 years. The index then soared to a record 264.6 following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. in September 2008. It
rose to 84.1 percent on May 6.  While the  debt market  may be sanguine, the world’s biggest
bond investor said last week that relatively low yields on
Treasuries fail to compensate for the risks of the securities.  ‘Abdication of Responsibility’  “There should be little doubt that simply holding
Treasuries at these yield levels for an extended period of time
represents an abdication of responsibility,”  Bill Gross , who
runs the $240.7 billion Pimco Total Return Fund, wrote in his
monthly investment outlook letter. Bond investors “are being
shortchanged by 1 percent to 2 percent annually compared to
historical norms,” he wrote.  Gross, who is also the co-chief investment officer at
 Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management
Co., began to bet against U.S. government-related debt in March
and made cash the largest holding of the Total Return Fund.  S&P put a “negative” outlook on the U.S. AAA credit
rating April 18, saying there’s a one-in-three chance of a
downgrade unless lawmakers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce
budget deficits and the national debt. Congress is debating
raising the government’s $14.29 trillion limit, which the
Treasury predicts will be reached this month.  Demand Sustained  So far, there’s been no sign of waning demand. Treasury has
received $2.97 in bids for every dollar auctioned this year,
little changed from last year’s record $2.99, Treasury data
show. The U.S. has sold $713 billion of notes and bonds this
year, compared with $812 billion at this time in 2010.  Purchases are being helped by commercial banks buying U.S.
government securities at the fastest pace since July, or $68
billion over the past two months, boosting their total stake to
$1.683 trillion, Fed data show.  The Fed has also been the dominant buyer of Treasuries sold
at recent auctions, making the central bank the world’s biggest
holder of  U.S. government debt . More than 36 percent of the
Treasuries the Fed bought in March were issued within the
previous 90 days, up from 15 percent in November, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  International demand is also picking up. The Fed’s holdings
of U.S. government debt on behalf of foreign central banks and
institutional investors jumped to $2.691 trillion as of May 4,
up 3.58 percent from this year’s low of $2.598 trillion on Jan.
19. That compares with no change in the previous 11 weeks.  Bearish to Neutral  The most bearish primary dealer, Morgan Stanley, as well as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., has dropped recommendations to bet
against Treasuries as economic growth slows.  “We are seeing a consistent downgrade in growth and growth
expectations and the  bond market  is leading the way,” said
James Caron, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at Morgan
Stanley in  New York , one of 20 primary dealers that trade with
the Fed, in an interview with Bloomberg television.“Bonds are
turning a more skeptical eye towards growth and as a result they
are bringing down yields and growth expectations alike.”  Goldman Sachs, also based in New York, abandoned its call
for investors to set up trades that would profit from a drop in
five-year notes, Francesco Garzarelli, the firm’s London-based
chief interest-rate strategist, wrote in a report.  “Right now we’re keeping monetary policy accommodative,”
 Eric Rosengren , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of  Boston ,
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television May 5. Asked
whether a third round of quantitative easing was under
consideration, Rosengren said that “nothing’s off the table, it
depends on economic conditions, so we have to do whatever makes
sense given our outlook for the economy.”  Five-Year, Five-Year  A bond market measure of inflation expectations the Fed
uses to help determine monetary policy was at 2.93 percentage
points, compared with 2.82 percentage points on March 23. It
reached a 10-month high of 3.28 percentage points in December.
The five-year, five-year forward break-even rate projects what
the pace of consumer price increases may be, beginning in 2016.
It averaged 2.78 percentage points over the past five years.  “Until there are significant worries about inflation and a
bigger pickup in growth the Fed is under no pressure to move,”
said  William Cunningham , co-head of global active fixed-income
in Boston at  State Street Global Advisors , which oversees $2.1
trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  