-- 
U.S. Treasury Notes Trade Near Year’s High After Greece’s Debt Rating Cut

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-05-09T21:11:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/treasuries-fall-before-reports-this-week-on-retail-sales-conumer-prices.html
Treasury 10-year notes traded at
almost the highest level this year after  Standard & Poor’s 
lowered Greece’s long-term sovereign debt rating, encouraging
demand for the safety of U.S. government securities.  Treasuries fell earlier as the U.S. prepares to sell $72
billion in debt and a government report is forecast to show
increased retail sales. Ten-year note yields erased gains even
as commodities rebounded from the steepest weekly slump since
2008. The  Federal Reserve  purchased $7.2 billion in Treasuries
maturing from May 2018 to February 2021 as part of the central
bank plan to bolster the economy and jobs growth.  “The sovereign-debt crisis is creeping back into the
market,” said Thomas di Galoma, managing director of U.S.
government securities at Oppenheimer & Co., the regional broker-
dealer unit of Oppenheimer Holdings. “We’re seeing a flight to
quality on this. People are worried that there could be some
breakdown in the European Union as it relates to  Greece .”  Yields on 10-year notes were little changed at 3.16
percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021
fell 2/32, or 63 cents per $1,000 face amount, to 103 29/32.  The 10-year note yields fell to 3.13 percent on May 6, the
lowest level since Dec. 8. The yields reached 3.77 percent on
Feb. 9, the highest since April 2010.  Notes, Bonds  “The news on Greece served as a not-so-subtle reminder
that the situation in peripheral Europe has not been resolved,”
said  Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-income strategist in Purchase,
New York, for Morgan Stanley Smith Barney. “It’s influencing
the Treasury market and that brings buyers in.”  Two-year note yields were little changed at 0.55 percent
after touching 0.57 percent. The 30-year bond yield rose two
basis points to 4.31 percent.  Greece’s credit rating was cut two levels to B from BB- by
S&P, which said further reductions are possible, with private
investors at risk if maturities are extended on the nation’s
emergency-aid package. Another cut would make Greece the lowest-
rated country in  Europe  as today’s move left it even with
Belarus after the fourth reduction by S&P since April 2010.  EU Talks  European Union leaders are showing their resolve in keeping
the euro region together, agreeing in an unannounced meeting on
May 6 to review the terms of the 110 billion-euro ($158 billion)
lifeline Greece received last year.  The euro tumbled 3.45 percent in the final two days of last
week as Der Spiegel magazine said Greece may withdraw from the
currency bloc. EU officials denied the report and said Greece
will need more aid after investors drove yields on its two-year
notes to more than 25 percent.  “It appears the market is transitioning from an assessment
of restructuring to Greece leaving the euro,” said Edward Lashinski, macro investment strategist at ABN Amro Clearing LLC
in  Chicago . “There’s generally a supportive backdrop for the
Treasury market right now.”  U.S. bill rates slid to record lows last week because
investors sought the safest securities and as the government
reduces sales while it approaches the debt ceiling. Six-month
rates dropped to 0.0305 percent on May 6. They yielded 0.066
percent today.  Rate Differences  The TED spread, the difference between what banks and the
U.S. government pay to borrow for three months, widened to 26
basis points, the most since August.  The odds of a Fed increase by March have fallen to 38
percent from 61 percent a month ago, futures contracts indicate.  This week’s Treasury sales will include $32 billion of
three-year debt tomorrow, $24 billion of 10-year notes on the
following day and $16 billion of 30-year bonds May 12.  “It is interesting to see that we are rallying into the
supply,” said James Combias, New York-based head of Treasury
trading at primary dealer Mizuho Securities USA Inc. “The
market is jittery about Greece and other issues.”  U.S. retail sales increased 0.6 percent in April after
rising 0.4 percent in the previous month, according to the
median forecast of 62 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
before the Commerce Department’s May 12 report.  Consumer prices excluding food and energy gained 1.3
percent last month from a year earlier after a 1.2 percent pace
of increase in March, according to the median forecast in a
separate Bloomberg News survey before a report from the Labor
Department on May 13.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  