-- 
Renewable Energy May Meet 77% of Demand by 2050, UN Report Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-05-09T13:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/renewable-energy-may-meet-77-of-demand-by-2050-un-report-says.html
Solar power, wind and other forms of
 renewable energy  may meet as much as 77 percent of global
consumption by 2050, according to a United Nations report.  Moving beyond fossil fuels such as oil and coal to develop
geothermal, biomass, solar, wind, hydropower and electricity
from the ocean’s waves and tides will require as much as $5.1
trillion in investment from 2011 through 2020 and an additional
$7.2 trillion for the decade ending in 2030, according to the
study by the UN’s  Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
released today in Abu Dhabi.  Renewable energy in  developing countries , which will have
the largest energy demand growth, will depend on “appropriate
finance and technology being available,”  Christiana Figueres ,
executive secretary of the UN Framework Convention on  Climate
Change . “Industrialized nations need to create the right policy
conditions and incentives so that the development and
installation of clean-energy technologies also receive a major
boost in their own energy mixes.”  The 25-page  summary  of the UN’s biggest assessment of
alternative energy was agreed line-by line by representatives of
194 countries over four days of talks that ended early today in
the capital of the  United Arab Emirates . The document describes
a report that stretches to more than 900 pages.  Energy Share  Renewable energy production made up 12.9 percent of total
primary  energy supply  in 2008 and may reach as much as 43
percent by 2030, the report said. The upper end of the 164
scenarios assessed indicated greenhouse gas savings equivalent
to up to 560 gigatons of carbon dioxide emissions from 2010 to
2050, compared with about 1,530 gigatons in the same period
under the reference scenario described in the  International
Energy Agency ’s 2009 World Energy Outlook.  “The hard facts are still in there, but the language was
made softer and watered down,” said Sven Teske, the renewable
energy director of Greenpeace International and an author of the
report. “A lot of times where we had said ‘can’ and ‘will,’ it
was changed to ‘could’ and ‘may’.”  Stephan Singer, an official reviewer of the report and
director of the environmental group WWF International’s energy
program, also said the summary had been diluted and that
lawmakers should read a longer version known as the technical
summary for a clearer picture of renewable energy. At the same
time, he said renewable energy has more potential than suggested
in the UN study.  100 Percent  “If we can say already today that we can go to 77 percent,
the door is open to go further,” Singer said in a telephone
interview from  Abu Dhabi . “With current technologies, 95
percent of energy from renewables is technically possible by
2050. With human ingenuity and new technologies, and if we
conserve more energy, 100 percent is possible.”  The IPCC in 2007 published its most definitive report on
climate change, which is used to guide international climate
treaty negotiations and for which it shared the Nobel Peace
Prize with former U.S. Vice President  Al Gore . The panel has
since admitted errors in that study, including exaggerating the
melting of Himalayan glaciers.  The absence of carbon pricing and promoting research and
development are barriers to renewable energy, according to one
of the report’s lead authors.  “Coal is cheap and abundant, and relatively equally
distributed around the world,” Ottmar Edenhofer told reporters.
“Without carbon pricing, it is costless to deposit CO2 in the
atmosphere, but it has externalities like extreme weather and
pollution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  