-- 
Resourcehouse’s Palmer Said to Sell Bigger Stake in Revived IPO

-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 
2011-05-10T01:00:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/resourcehouse-s-palmer-said-to-offer-bigger-stake-resume-ipo.html
Resourcehouse Ltd., the Australian
coal and iron ore company controlled by  Clive Palmer , increased
the stake being sold in a revived initial public offering,
according to two people with knowledge of the sale.  Palmer is seeking to sell as much as 49.9 percent of the
company, up from 36 percent to 40 percent, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plan is confidential. The
total amount to be raised in the  Hong Kong  IPO remains at about
$3 billion, according to one of the people, indicating the per
share valuation has fallen. Andrew Crook, an outside spokesman
for Palmer, declined to comment when contacted by phone.  “The original proposal was fairly rich and it looks like
it has come back down to more reasonable grounds,”  Andrew Harrington , an analyst at Patersons Securities Ltd., said today
by phone from Sydney. “Appetite for coal seems to be
undiminished in  China .”  Resourcehouse, seeking to develop iron-ore and coal
projects in Australia, shelved an IPO in March because of market
volatility, two people with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. It was at least the second time that the company’s plans
to sell shares in Hong Kong were postponed.  Resourcehouse started gauging investor demand last week for
an IPO, two people said May 6. BOC International Holdings Ltd.,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) 
are managing the sale, the people said.  The IPO managers will seek to set a price for the offering
on May 31 and list the stock in Hong Kong on June 9, one person
said. Palmer owns 100 percent of Resourcehouse.  Investors in the company include  China Railway Group Ltd. (390) 
and Metallurgical Corp. of China Ltd., according to the terms of
an earlier sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  