-- 
Trichet Says Global Central Bankers Are United in Fight Against Inflation

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-05-09T12:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/trichet-says-global-central-bankers-are-united-in-fight-against-inflation.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said the world’s central bankers are united in
fighting inflation fueled by surging commodity prices and fast-
growing emerging economies.  “There is a solid unity of purpose of all central bankers
concentrated on solidly anchoring inflation expectations,”
Trichet said today in Basel,  Switzerland , after chairing the
Global Economy Meeting. The global economic recovery has been
“confirmed” and there is “potential for real overheating in
emerging countries,” Trichet said.  Global rate setters are growing more concerned about
inflation as the world economy gathers strength and food and oil
prices increase. The ECB raised  interest rates  last month for
the first time in almost three years. Central banks in the
Philippines,  Malaysia  and India also tightened borrowing costs
last week.  Oil has gained 10 percent this year after unrest in the
Middle East and North Africa toppled leaders in Tunisia and
Egypt before spreading to Libya, Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman,
Syria and Yemen.  “Our colleague from  Saudi Arabia  mentioned that Saudi
Arabia is standing ready to supply appropriately the market,”
Trichet said.  ‘Great Importance’  The surge in commodity prices is “an issue of great
importance” because “it has a direct impact on CPI inflation
all over the world,” Trichet said. “It calls for avoiding
second-round effects and anchoring inflation expectations.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on April 11 forecast
inflation in advanced economies will average 2.2 percent this
year and 1.7 percent next. It predicted inflation in developing
and emerging economies will average 6.9 percent this year and
5.3 percent in 2012.  Oil prices posted their biggest weekly decline since 2008
last week on concern the global recovery would be weaker than
expected.  “There is at this stage no sentiment that there will be a
double-dip” recession, Trichet said. “We also see no reason
for being complacent in any respect.”  The Washington-based IMF predicts growth in the world
economy will accelerate to 4.5 percent in 2012 from 4.4 percent
this year. While advanced economies will expand 2.4 percent this
year, developing nations will grow 6.5 percent, driven by strong
expansion in China and  India , the IMF predicts.  ‘Absolute Necessity’  Trichet urged governments in developed countries to reduce
budget deficits and return to sustainable fiscal policies.  “It is an absolute necessity of the advanced economies to
have wise fiscal policies, which was one of the issues we
considered important at a global level,” he said.  Trichet met in Basel with his counterparts from the world’s
largest central banks including Federal Reserve Vice Chairman
Janet Yellen,  Japan ’s Masaaki Shirakawa and  Germany ’s Jens Weidmann. The meeting is held every two months under the
auspices of the Bank for International Settlements, which
oversees central banks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Basel  at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in Basel at  shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  