-- 
Trichet Sees Potential for Overheating in Emerging Economies

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-05-09T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/trichet-sees-potential-for-overheating-in-emerging-economies.html
European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet, speaking on behalf of the world’s central
bankers, comments on global growth, commodities and inflation.  Trichet made the remarks in Basel,  Switzerland , today after
chairing the Global Economy Meeting.  On the global economy:  “The recovery is there. It is confirmed. This is of course
not new but it is important. There have been some ups and downs
but the overall recovery is there. There is at this stage no
sentiment that there will be a double dip. We also see no reason
for being complacent in any respect.”  “There is potential for real overheating in emerging
countries. That of course accompanies a recovery. This is an
issue which we consider important.”  “It is certainly considered by colleagues as a healthy
recovery. That being said, the main message I have is that this
is no time for complacency. We want to consolidate this recovery
as well as possible.”  On overheating:  “Excessive ups and downs always have a cost. Preventing
overheating is always a must for decision makers.”  On fiscal policy:  “The fiscal situation in particular in advanced economies
is an issue that is important. It is an issue where a number of
decisions have been taken. The fiscal situation in advanced
economies has to progressively be improved. That’s true for all
of us, including in  Europe .”  “As regards to the fiscal policy, is an absolute necessity
of the advanced economies to have wise fiscal policies which was
one of the issues we considered important at a global level,
which is more or less equivalent of the potential for the
overheating of the emerging countries.”  On commodity prices:  “We have this issue of commodity prices, oil and energy
prices in particular. We consider that this is an issue of great
importance. It has a direct impact on CPI inflation all over the
world. It calls for avoiding second-round effects and anchoring
inflation expectations.  “We were very cautious and prudent and didn’t engage in an
immediate appreciation of what happened. Of course, volatility
in some prices is very high.”  On inflation:  “There is a solid unity of purpose of all central bankers
which were concentrated on solidly anchoring inflation
expectations. On this issue there is a great unity in purpose.”  “All countries concerned, all governors have to cope with
their own economy. We are very much in agreement on the fact
that solid anchoring of inflation expectations in the present
situation is absolutely of the essence.”  On oil:  “Our colleague from  Saudi Arabia  mentioned that Saudi
Arabia is standing ready to supply appropriately the market.”  On  Japan :  “We took note of the analysis of the central bank of Japan
on what’s going on. We expect that after the immediate impact on
the Japanese economy we will then after the first period observe
a re-bouncing which will be very significant.”  On ministers meeting in Luxembourg on Friday:  “On Luxembourg I have nothing particular to say. I will
stick to what Mr. Juncker has said.”  On China:  “We didn’t discuss the Chinese currency.”  On global liquidity:  “We didn’t make a judgment on whether at the global level
liquidity is in excess but we decided to work on it.  “At this stage, we’re starting our work and I can’t give
you any kind of conclusion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Basel  at  jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in Basel at  shamilton8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  