-- 
Roddick Says U.S. Still a Force in Tennis as Americans Drop Out of Top 10

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-09T17:06:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/roddick-says-u-s-still-a-force-in-tennis-as-americans-drop-out-of-top-10.html
The U.S. is still a force in tennis
even though it doesn’t have any players in the men’s or women’s
top 10 lists for the first time, American  Andy Roddick  said.  “We’re kind of a victim of our own success over the years
in the sport,” Roddick told a news conference in Rome today
after he lost 6-3, 6-3 to  France ’s Gilles Simon in the first
round of the  Rome Masters  at the Foro Italico clay courts.  Roddick, 28, is ranked No. 12 on the ATP World Tour, while
fellow American Mardy Fish is at No. 11. With 13-time Grand Slam
champion  Serena Williams  dropping out of the top 10 of the WTA
Tour today there are no American players ranked in either elite
group for the first time since the start of the men’s rankings
in 1973 and the women’s in 1975. Williams dropped seven places
to No. 17 because of a foot injury and treatment for a blood
clot in her lung, which have kept her away from the women’s
circuit since she won Wimbledon last July.  “If you still stack us up against most countries, we’re
coming out ahead,” said Roddick, the last American man to win a
Grand Slam singles title, at the 2003  U.S. Open . “At a certain
point, the only part that confuses me is how I am answering
questions and that it’s my responsibility. I feel like that I’ve
handled my part for more than a decade. I’ve been doing my job
for a long time.”  Singles Titles  Roddick dropped out of the top 10 in August last year,
leaving no U.S. men in the group for the first time. Until then
he’d been ranked inside the highest group since August 2006, and
has since bounced in and out of it.  Roddick posted his second straight first-round defeat on
European clay courts, having been beaten in  Madrid  last week.
Both Rome and Madrid are tune-ups for the  French Open , which
starts May 22 in Paris.  Although U.S. men are enduring the longest drought in major
singles titles since tennis turned professional in 1968,
Americans last year won nine ATP World Tour singles titles,
second only to  Spain . For the first time since 1999, four
American men finished the year in the top 20 on the tour.  Serena Williams’ elder sister and five-time Wimbledon
champion Venus, who hasn’t played competitively since the
 Australian Open  in January because of abdominal and hip
problems, fell three places to No. 19. The sisters have won 20
Grand Slam singles titles between them.  ‘Lot Tougher’  The women’s top 10, headed by Denmark’s  Caroline Wozniacki ,
consists of nine different nations.  “The competition in general has got a lot tougher from all
the other countries,” American qualifier  Christina McHale  said
in an interview at the Foro Italico today, when asked why
American players’ rankings have dropped.  Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey-based McHale moved to the
second round in Rome by beating  China ’s Peng Shuai 6-3, 2-6, 7-6
(9-7) and will play Francesca Schiavone, the French Open
champion from  Italy , in the next round.  McHale learned to play tennis in  Hong Kong  when she was
three years old and her father was working there. The 18-year-
old said that although she’s part of the new generation of U.S.
players, she doesn’t feel any extra pressure to do well because
the Williams sisters aren’t competing.  “It’s more of an opportunity for the young Americans
coming through,” said McHale, who entered the top 100 for the
first time in March after she made the third round at Indian
Wells. She is currently ranked at No. 92, which makes her the
seventh-best American woman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Foro Italico in  Rome  through the London
newsroom at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 