-- 
Rolls-Royce Must Lower $3.7 Billion Sought in Pratt Lawsuit

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-05-09T19:00:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/rolls-royce-must-lower-3-7-billion-sought-from-pratt-in-lawsuit.html
Rolls-Royce Group Plc (RR/)  must lower the
$3.7 billion in damages sought in a patent lawsuit against
United Technologies Corp.’s Pratt & Whitney because the jet-
engine maker overstated the effect of competition, a judge
ruled.  Estimates for engine prices, units sold and the value of
service contracts are “based on misstatements of the law, a
lack of sound evidence, and unsupported economic assumptions,”
U.S. District Judge Leonie Brinkema in Alexandria,  Virginia ,
said in a May 4 ruling. Brinkema didn’t say what the damages can
be should Rolls-Royce prove during trial that Pratt used a
patented design for engine fan blades without permission.  Rolls-Royce claims Pratt’s GP7200 Fan Stage violates  patent
rights  issued in 2000 for a Rolls-Royce Trent engine used on
Airbus SAS A380s. London-based Rolls-Royce argued that it should
be entitled to $1.35 billion for the lower prices it said it was
forced to charge on engines, plus $2.3 billion in profit lost
because of engines sold by a venture of Pratt and  General
Electric Co. (GE)   The list price for the Trent engine is $20 million, which
was discounted an average of 87.3 percent to $2.54 million, the
judge said, citing company data. She rejected Rolls-Royce
arguments that without competition from East Hartford,
Connecticut-based Pratt’s GP7200 engine, the discount would have
been 77 percent, for a price of $4.6 million, the filing shows.  Consultant’s Estimates  A damages consultant hired by Rolls-Royce “cannot just
simply assume that airlines would happily pay millions of
dollars more per engine,” Brinkema wrote in throwing out the
consultant’s report. “It is not even clear whether Airbus would
have undertaken the project of producing the Airbus 380 in the
first place if it had only one engine supplier to rely upon.”  Rolls-Royce is the world’s second-largest maker of jet
engines, trailing GE.  “Rolls-Royce takes protection of its technology and
intellectual property very seriously and will vigorously pursue
legal action against any attempts to infringe it,” Mia Walton,
a spokeswoman for Rolls-Royce in the U.S., said in an e-mail.  The swept-fan blade design at issue in the case allows for
a twist, giving the largest part of a jet engine greater
resistance to damage by foreign objects, more stability and
lower noise levels. The trial is scheduled to begin June 6, and
Pratt is challenging the infringement claim.  ‘Highly Speculative’  Pratt told the judge it plans to install different blades
on further engines that design around the Rolls-Royce invention.  “We are encouraged that the court has significantly
limited Rolls-Royce’s damages claim,” said Jay DeFrank, a Pratt
spokesman. “We believe this lawsuit is meritless and we intend
to pursue the case vigorously.”  As an alternative to the $3.7 billion in damages, Rolls-
Royce said it could instead be entitled to $1.3 billion as a
lump sum of royalties owed. The company based that claim on
interest from the consultant’s estimate that a royalty agreement
with Pratt would have been signed for $493 million in 2000.  Brinkema said Rolls-Royce could ask for $493 million at
most, and Pratt can challenge that figure because it equals
almost the entire amount Pratt invested in the joint venture
with GE and is “highly speculative.”  Pratt in November filed its own patent-infringement case
against Rolls-Royce with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in  Washington . A trial is scheduled for October before the
agency, which has the power to block imports of products found
to violate U.S. patents.  The case is Rolls-Royce Plc v.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ,
10cv457, U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of
Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  