-- 
Russian ADRs, Market Vectors Russia ETF Gain as Oil Rallies

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-05-09T22:54:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/russian-adrs-market-vectors-russia-etf-gain-as-oil-rallies.html
The Market Vectors  Russia  ETF, a
U.S.-traded fund that holds Russian shares, advanced yesterday
and American depositary receipts of Russian companies gained as
oil and other commodities rebounded from their steepest weekly
slump since 2008.  Lukoil’s American depositary receipts rose 0.5 percent to
$64.51 in New York, after falling 7.9 percent last week.
Gazprom’s ADRs climbed 3.1 percent to $15.51, after dropping 12
percent last week. ADRs from OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s
largest mining company, added 0.7 percent to $25.95. The Market
Vectors Russia ETF rose 1.4 percent.  “Investors’ mood towards risk assets and oil and commodity
prices generally will remain the two dominant factors driving
Russian stocks,”  Paul Biszko , an emerging-market strategist at
Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto, said via e-mail.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of 19 raw materials
rose 2 percent, increasing for the first time in six sessions.
The index rebounded after dropping 9 percent last week, the
steepest weekly decline since December 2008. Crude oil, Russia’s
major export earner, rose above $102 a barrel in  New York ,
rebounding from the biggest weekly decline since 2008.  Russian markets were closed for a national holiday
yesterday.  ‘Reasonable Valuations’  “If there is anything constructive about last week’s
decline for the bulls, it is the fact that the price descent has
been so steep, that markets could reach rather reasonable
valuations in fairly short order,”  Edward Meir , senior
commodity analyst at MF Global Holdings Ltd. in Darien,
 Connecticut , said in a report.  Crude oil for June delivery rose $5.37, or 5.5 percent, to
settle at $102.55 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Futures dropped 15 percent in the five days ended May 6, the
biggest weekly decline since December 2008. Prices are up 37
percent from a year ago.  Oil and natural gas account for a quarter of Russia’s
economic output. The country also exports gold, nickel,
palladium and copper, among other metals.  Emerging market funds had the sixth straight week of
inflows, attracting $1.241 billion in the week to May 4,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at UralSib Financial Corp. in Moscow,
wrote in an e-mailed report, citing data from EPFR Global. Total
inflows in the six weeks to May 4 totaled $15 billion, following
nine consecutive weeks of redemptions that totaled $25.6
billion, Weafer said.  “Russia and Korea funds were the only major funds to
attract new money” as Korea country funds attracted $131
million in the week to May 4 and Russia funds attracted $87
million, Weafer wrote in the report.  “The latest data does not show the reaction to the jump in
the value of the dollar and the bigger collapse in commodities
on Thursday and Friday” last week, Weafer said in the report.
“Russia funds will almost certainly have suffered net
redemption on Thursday as oil and metals collapsed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  