-- 
Commodities Set to Rally After Mid-Cycle Decline, Salida’s Wolfe Forecasts

-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-05-10T11:48:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/salida-capital-s-wolfe-sees-mid-cycle-correction-in-commodities.html
Commodity prices are in a correction
and are poised to rebound, said Courtenay Wolfe, chief executive
officer of Salida Capital, a Canadian hedge fund.  “We view this as a mid-cycle correction,” Wolfe said late
yesterday at the  100 Women In Hedge Funds  conference in Toronto
sponsored by Bloomberg LP. “We are still bullish on resources
as a whole.”  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials fell
11 percent last week, the most since 2008, as slower growth in
U.S. services and fewer German manufacturing orders stoked
concern the economic recovery is faltering.  Wolfe’s firm manages about $900 million in assets, focusing
on natural resources, with about 50 percent of the investments
in  Canada .  “We think Canadian  oil sands  are a very significant area
of interest to us,” Wolfe said.  She said  China  Investment Corp., a sovereign wealth fund
supervised by China, opened an office in Toronto because they
see the potential to make money investing in resources.  “Their mandate, first and foremost, is to make money,”
Wolfe said. “From an investment point of view, they see
resources as being one of the biggest areas of growth.”  Canadian Dollar  Wolfe and  Camilla Sutton , chief currency strategist at
Scotia Capital, said in the panel discussion that they expect
the Canadian dollar to strengthen relative to the U.S. currency.  “We have a lot of stuff the world needs,” Wolfe said.  Wolfe joined Salida as managing director in March 2008 and
was named president and CEO later that year. Wolfe and other
Salida representatives paid $1.68 million at a charity auction
in 2009 to have lunch in  New York  with billionaire investor
 Warren Buffett .  The loonie, as the Canadian currency is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, touched 94.46 cents on
April 29, the strongest level since November 2007. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0370.  Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s  Conservative Party 
won a majority of seats in Parliament last week, putting them in
control of the legislature for the first time since the early
1990s. Harper has been in power since 2006 without holding a
majority, meaning he’s had to rely on support from opposing
lawmakers to pass laws.  The Conservative government and a majority government are a
“win for the Canadian dollar,” Scotia Capital’s Sutton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Diane Brady at  at  dbrady11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 