-- 
Sappi to Cut European Costs by $100 Million a Year as Input Expenses Climb

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-05-09T10:48:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/sappi-to-cut-european-costs-by-100-million-a-year-as-input-expenses-climb.html
Sappi Ltd. (SAP) , the world’s largest maker
of glossy paper, plans to cut costs in its European businesses
by more than $100 million a year to compensate for rising input
expenses, Chief Executive Officer Ralph Boettger said.  “We’re looking at $100 million-plus of cost savings that
should start coming through in our results in our fourth
quarter,” Boettger said in a phone interview from Johannesburg
today. Sappi’s European business purchases more than half of its
pulp requirements and has been affected by higher prices for the
paper-making ingredient, wood, latex and energy.  The company will close its Biberist mill in  Switzerland 
this quarter as increased raw material and energy costs made the
operation unprofitable, saving more than $50 million annually,
he said. Sappi identified further measures to reduce fixed and
variable costs and improve paper production lines across its
European units by more than $50 million per annum, Boettger
said, without being more specific.  Sappi posted a fiscal second-quarter operating profit
before special items of $127 million compared with $54 million a
year earlier, according to a statement released today.  “We are absolutely determined to see further price
increases, particularly for coated wood-free paper in  Europe ”
as a result of increasing input costs, Boettger said.  “There’s very strong demand for all our pulp products as
well as chemical cellulose,” he said. Pulp prices are rising as
economies rebound from the global recession.  The manufacture of chemical cellulose is a very important
part of Sappi’s growth plans, Boettger said. The papermaker will
expand its Ngodwana Mill in Mpumalanga,  South Africa  to increase
capacity there by 220,000 metric tons a year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen at  at
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 