-- 
HSBC May Take Three Years to Meet Cost-Reduction Goal After Expenses Surge

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 
2011-05-09T15:42:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/hsbc-first-quarter-profit-rises-58-on-bad-debt-provisions-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver  said it may take as long as three years
to meet the bank’s cost-reduction target after expenses jumped
in the first quarter.  Costs as a proportion of income rose to 60.9 percent from
49.6 percent, the London-based bank said in a statement today.
Net income rose 58 percent to $4.15 billion from $2.63 billion
in the year-earlier period, the lender said in its first
detailed quarterly earnings report.  “We have increased our emphasis on cost management across
the group, launching a number of cost-reduction programs during
the period,” Gulliver said in the statement. The increase in
operating expenses reflected higher staff costs at the
investment banking unit and “in particular a provision of $440
million relating to payment protection insurance in the U.K.”  HSBC, which in January replaced  Michael Geoghegan  with
Gulliver and cut its profitability target the following month,
will outline a new strategy and detail its cost-reduction plans
on May 11. Banks including  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking Group
Plc (LLOY)  are also reviewing their operations as regulators demand
higher capital holdings to prevent a new financial crisis.  It may take until 2013 or 2014 for the bank to reach its
target to cut expenses to between 48 percent and 52 percent of
revenue, Gulliver told reporters today. “It’s hard to call it
earlier than that,” he said. “This is a large firm.”  Cutting Costs  “He is going to have to lay out a clear path as to how
he’s going to meet these cost targets because it’s really not
clear at the moment,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London . “The big problem he faces
in bringing down costs is that HSBC are in markets that are very
hot.”  The stock fell 0.5 percent to 648.2 pence at the close in
London for a market value of about 115 billion pounds. HSBC has
gained 3 percent in the past 12 months, the second-best
performer behind Standard Chartered Plc in the FTSE 350 index of
Britain’s five-biggest banks.  The bank,  Europe ’s biggest by market value, has the highest
cost-to-income ratio among its U.K. peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “They’ve had weak revenues and disappointing costs while
loan losses are trending lower,” said Cormac Leech, an analyst
at Canaccord Genuity Ltd. in London, who has a “buy” rating on
the stock. “They need to show some stability and progression in
pre-impairment profit.”  Gulliver Plan  Gulliver may detail plans to cut costs and withdraw from
units or countries that don’t provide adequate returns, Rohith Chandra-Rajan, an analyst at  Barclays Capital , said last week.  Pretax profit in Europe declined 65 percent to $652
million, reduced by the provision for U.K. customers improperly
sold insurance on personal loans and a “lower contribution”
from its investment banking unit, HSBC said. In  Hong Kong ,
pretax profit rose 3.5 percent to $1.56 billion.  Pretax profit in  North America , which includes the former
subprime lender  Household International , fell to $181 million
from $450 million in the year-earlier period. The lender logged
a $400 million impairment in the U.S. because of “changes in
economic assumptions about the pace of recovery in  home prices 
and delays in the timing of expected cash flows,” HSBC said.  HSBC North America returned to profit last year after three
years of losses, asset sales and the culling of more than 6,000
jobs. The bank halted lending at its U.S. subprime unit in 2009
after racking up more than $58 billion in bad loan provisions.  Tax Charge Declines  Group net income was buoyed as its tax charge declined to
$491 million in the first quarter, compared with $2.8 billion in
the same period in 2010, HSBC said. The year-earlier figure was
buoyed by the tax paid on the sale of HSBC Bank Canada to the
lender’s U.K. unit, the bank said today.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Lloyds, Britain’s
biggest government-assisted banks, posted losses for the first
quarter, while Barclays recorded a drop in profit as investment
banking revenue tumbled.  HSBC said in February net income more than doubled to $13.2
billion in 2010 from $5.83 billion the previous year, missing
the $13.7 billion median estimate. The lender said at the time
it will target a return on equity of 12 percent to 15 percent,
instead of 15 percent to 19 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Menon in London at   jmenon1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  