-- 
Scene Last Night: Ganek, Koons, Brant, 35,000-Pound Teddy

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-05-09T15:28:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/scene-last-night-ganek-koons-naomi-campbell-brant-35-000-pound-teddy.html
Christie’s threw a party on the plaza
of the Seagram Building Saturday night, next to the giant yellow
Urs Fischer teddy bear it is auctioning on Wednesday, with an
estimate of $10 million.  Party planners had no problem coming up with decor to match
the spectacle of the artwork: They created a super-sized jack-
in-the-box. Every 20 minutes or so, a clown dressed in blue and
red polka dots or a woman dressed as a little girl in pink
popped up, launched by a trampoline hidden from view.  Guests in attendance included architect Terence Riley, who
made fun of the fluorescent yellow wrist band he’d been given at
the door (“This is so Miami”); Sloan Barnett, the author of
“Green Goes With Everything,” a guide to an ecologically sound
lifestyle; and Danielle and David Ganek, the managing partner of
Level Global Investors LP, one of the  hedge funds  raided by the
FBI in November as part of an insider-trading probe. The fund
announced in February it would close and return cash to clients.  “The artist was here. He didn’t come in. To him, it isn’t
about this party,” said Brett Gorvy, international co-head and
deputy chairman, postwar and contemporary art, at Christie’s.  Gorvy was standing in front of the 35,000-pound teddy bear,
“Untitled (Lamp/Bear).” He took care to explain that the party
wasn’t about marketing the sculpture. Rather, the sculpture was
“an excuse to have a celebration.”  Yet, really, the only thing Gorvy wanted to talk about was
Fischer’s teddy (he’d like to see it permanently installed as a
public sculpture in a city), or his own.  “To tell you the truth, I had a teddy rather late in my
life,” said Gorvy, holding a glass of pink grapefruit juice.
“I was 16, in the hospital. My mother gave it to me, and now my
daughter has it. Its name is A.G. Bear, and it’s yellow.”  Donald Rubell, the Miami hotelier and art collector, could
not recall his childhood teddy. “My grandkids think I’m a teddy
bear,” he said.  At the Brants  The Brant Foundation  Art Study Center, in Greenwich,
 Connecticut , was the setting for an art party on Saturday
afternoon hosted by Peter Brant, the chief executive officer of
White Birch Paper Co. and owner of Brant Publications.  In one corner of Brant’s vast lawn that includes a polo
field, racks of lamb were roasting around a wood fire, tended by
a few men with long-handled shovels. To the left was a white
tent filled with white flowers and picnic tables (lunch would
soon be served). Near the tent, artist Maya Lin was perched on
one of the white cushions dotting the lawn, watching  Jeff Koons ’s kids play soccer.  “It’s a little flat,” Lin, creator of an undulating
landscape at the  Storm King Art Center , said of the terrain
before here. “Let’s dig it up.” (She didn’t.)  Naomi Campbell   Many guests were congregating on the terrace of the rustic
stone building at the entrance to the property, filled with new
paintings by Josh Smith. Naomi Campbell greeted dealer Tony Shafrazi and Justine Koons.  Inside, Stephanie Seymour stood in front of one of the
massive canvases, and Brant, her husband, walked through with
Russian billionaire Vladislav Doronin.  Also present: Greek billionaire  Dakis Joannou ; artists Rob
Pruitt, David LaChapelle and Maurizio Cattelan; dealers  Larry Gagosian  and Stellan Holm, collector Adam Lindemann (who keeps
his Urs Fischer teddy bear on the grounds of his Montauk,  Long
Island , estate), and Joachim Pissarro, a professor of art
history at  Hunter College .  Julian Schnabel  showed up in purple
pajamas, smoking a cigarette.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 