-- 
Traders Bet LSE’s Toronto Bourse Bid Will Be Beat for First Time: Real M&A

-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 
2011-05-09T21:06:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/lse-bid-for-toronto-stock-exchange-seen-exceeded-for-first-time-real-m-a.html
Traders who profit from mergers and
acquisitions are betting for the first time a higher offer will
trump the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ’s deal for Toronto-
based  TMX Group Inc. (X) , leaving both bidders as losers.  A group of Canadian banks is in talks with the nation’s
pension funds on alternatives to LSE’s $3.1 billion bid to keep
the Toronto Stock Exchange under local ownership, the head of
the  pension plan  in Alberta said last week. The discussions
caused TMX’s share price to rise above LSE’s all-stock offer on
May 6 for the first time since it was announced in February, as
arbitragers bet a competing bid will emerge once LSE gains
regulatory approval, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Without the TMX deal, the exchange that traces its roots
back to the  coffee houses  of 17th century London would risk
being left out of the industry’s biggest round of consolidation.
Valued at $3.7 billion, LSE is dwarfed by bourses from  Hong Kong 
to Brazil. For the Canadian banks, which can finance an all-cash
bid, owning TMX would give them a market venue that’s one of the
least valuable relative to earnings.  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and  National Bank of Canada (NA) ,
three of the nation’s six biggest lenders, oppose the LSE offer.  “LSE would be left out in the cold and they’d be forced to
pursue another transaction,” said  Sachin Shah , a merger
arbitrage strategist at Capstone Global Markets LLC in  New York .
“The banks would not benefit strategically. The money they
would be paying would be to basically have a lockbox company and
essentially put it out of the reach of the London Stock Exchange
and any other foreign company.”  Exchange Consolidation  LSE’s Lauren Crawley-Moore didn’t return a telephone call
or e-mail requesting comment outside normal business hours.
Toronto-based CIBC’s Chris Anderson declined to comment, as did
Wojtek Dabrowski of Toronto-Dominion, and Montreal-based
National Bank’s Claude Breton.  “TMX Group remains completely focused on completing our
agreement with  London  Stock Exchange,” said Carolyn Quick,
spokeswoman for TMX. “We are convinced that this merger
represents an unparalleled opportunity both for our company and
for the Canadian capital markets.”  LSE’s bid for TMX announced Feb. 9 was part of more than
$30 billion in takeover offers for exchanges in less than six
months, as bourses try to cut costs and generate more revenue
from trading in stocks, options and futures. LSE earned only 17
cents for every dollar of revenue in the past 12 months, less
than all but two exchanges worldwide, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. TMX was twice as profitable with a margin of 34 percent.  Nasdaq OMX  A takeover of TMX would create a $6.8 billion exchange,
leapfrogging New York-based  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) ,  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  of
Sydney and  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  among the world’s biggest
trading venues.  Xavier Rolet, LSE’s chief executive officer, will cut 35
million pounds ($57 million) a year in costs and expand into
businesses such as derivatives as competition increases.  The sale to LSE, which will own 55 percent of the combined
entity, would also be the largest foreign takeover of a
financial services company in  Canada .  “Some people feel that there is some benefit to having the
exchange locally owned, and they’re obviously working on
something that might fit that model,”  Alberta Investment 
Management Corp. CEO Leo de Bever said in a Business News
Network television interview on May 5.  He didn’t return a telephone call seeking comment.  Merger Arbitrage  Canada’s six biggest banks and retirement fund Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board are among owners of Alpha Group,
an alternative trading system that competes with TMX. Alpha has
gained about 20 percent of the market for  stock trading  in
Canada since it opened in 2008. Alpha Group CEO Jos Schmitt said
May 5 that he was unaware of talks by owners to bid for TMX.  Speculation that some of Canada’s banks are readying a
higher bid to block the LSE sent shares of TMX above the current
offer price for the first time last week.  Based on the terms of LSE’s takeover, each TMX shareholder
will get 2.9963 LSE shares for every share they own in Canada’s
largest exchange, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That valued the deal at about C$39.66 a share May 6, the
data show. TMX closed at C$39.87 last week, 0.5 percent higher
than the LSE offer. Before then, TMX never closed above the bid
on concern the cross-border deal wouldn’t be approved by the
Canadian government and provincial regulators. The stock had
fallen as much as 7.8 percent below the offer on Feb. 17.  TMX rose 1.3 percent to C$40.38 today in Toronto, while LSE
dropped 1.2 percent to 826 pence in London, widening the gap
between TMX shares and the deal price.  ‘Significant Setback’  If LSE isn’t “successful that would be a significant
setback” for the exchange’s ambitions, said  Michael Holland ,
who oversees more than $4 billion as chairman of Holland & Co.
in New York. “There’s no doubt” that Canada would like to see
TMX remain in local hands, he said.  While Canada has accepted all but two takeovers reviewed by
the federal government in the past 25 years, LSE’s offer came
three months after it rejected Melbourne-based BHP Billiton
Ltd.’s $40 billion hostile takeover of Saskatoon, Saskatchewan-
based Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan after local opposition.  LSE and TMX submitted their takeover application to
Canada’s federal government on April 29. The country’s industry
minister has 45 days, with a potential 30-day extension, to
review the application to determine whether the transaction is a
“net benefit” to the country.  ‘Protectionist Country’  “Canada, from what it seems, is a protectionist country,”
said Matt Osowiecki, a New York-based senior analyst at Water
Island Capital LLC, which manages the $2.3 billion Arbitrage
Fund. “They blocked a deal for fertilizer, so I imagine they’re
going to block a deal for their only link to the financial
services industry.”  If LSE can overcome the regulatory hurdles, it still faces
opposition from some of Canada’s biggest banks.  Toronto-Dominion, along with CIBC, National Bank, Casgrain
& Co. of Montreal and Calgary-based AltaCorp Capital Inc., on
March 9 released a letter opposing LSE’s takeover.  National Bank, the nation’s sixth-largest lender,
“strongly” opposes the deal because the price is too low and
the London-based bourse is a “weak partner,” CEO Louis Vachon
said on March 30. A day later, Edmund Clark, CEO of Toronto-
Dominion, Canada’s second-largest bank, said TMX can “do
better” than its sale to LSE.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  and Bank of Montreal, the Toronto-
based firms advising LSE and TMX, respectively, have said they
are in favor of the deal.  ‘Constant Chatter’  Toronto-Dominion, CIBC and National Bank, which have a
combined market value of C$117.6 billion ($121.6 billion), could
finance an all-cash offer that LSE wouldn’t be able to match,
according to Yemi Oshodi, managing director of M&A and special
situations trading at New York-based WallachBeth Capital LLC.  LSE had $305 million in cash and short-term investments and
$786 million in debt at the end of September.  “There’s a constant chatter between these three banks,”
he said. “When you hear talk that these guys might be thinking
about bidding and they clearly can finance it and they’re
clearly big enough to do it, you’ve really got to pay
attention.”  LSE may now miss out on the wave of consolidation that
began in October, when Singapore Exchange bid A$8.35 billion
($8.3 billion) for ASX to create the world’s fifth-biggest
bourse. The deal was blocked by Australia’s government in April.  World’s Largest Exchange  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  of Frankfurt and New York-based  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  agreed in February to combine to create the world’s
largest exchange with a market value of $26 billion, while
Nasdaq OMX and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  of Atlanta followed
last month with an unsolicited offer for NYSE Euronext.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., currently the largest
bourse with a market capitalization of $24.2 billion, is more
than six times as large as LSE, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Sao Paulo-based  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of Latin America’s
biggest securities exchange, is four times as big.  For the bank bidders, there’s not much to gain from
acquiring a $3.1 billion local exchange that lacks a significant
international presence, according to Holland & Co.’s Holland.
TMX trades at 15 times earnings, 30 percent less than what the
average exchange commands, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The deal is going to close not per se by the economic
consideration,” said Capstone Global’s Shah. “At the end of
the day, the premise is they’re trying to keep it in Canada’s
hands and not allow a U.K.-based entity to take this.”  Overall, there have been 8,551 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $843.2 billion, a 22 percent increase from
the $691.3 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at +1-416-203-5722 or  dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 