-- 
SingTel Chairman NaLamlieng to Step Down, Replaced by Israel

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-05-09T07:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/singtel-chairman-nalamlieng-to-step-down-replaced-by-israel-1-.html
Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST) 
Chairman Chumpol NaLamlieng will step down to be succeeded by
board member, Simon Israel, after the company’s annual general
meeting on July 29.  Israel, a non-executive director of SingTel since 2003, is
also executive director and president of Temasek Holdings Pte,
positions he will relinquish effective July 1. Prior to joining
Singapore’s state-owned investment company, Israel was chairman
of Danone Asia Pacific Ltd., according to SingTel’s statement to
the stock exchange today.  “With a proven track record in managing cross-border
acquisitions and as an active international investor, Simon
appreciates the challenges and opportunities of his new role,”
NaLamlieng said in the statement. During his own tenure as
chairman, NaLamlieng focused on strengthening SingTel’s market
share in the city-state and driving profitable growth in
 Australia , the statement said.  Israel, who is from  New Zealand , will take on the
chairmanship of Southeast Asia’s largest telecommunications
company, with 383 million mobile-phone customers across 25
countries spanning Australia to  India , according to its website.
The group, whose largest shareholder is Temasek, reported a
third-quarter net profit in February that beat analysts’
estimates.  Israel joined Paris-based Danone, the world’s largest
yogurt maker, in 1996. Prior to Danone, he had a 22-year career
at Sara Lee Corp. in Asia. He’s also on the boards of companies
including  CapitaLand Ltd. (CAPL) , Southeast Asia’s biggest developer,
and Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd.  In other SingTel board changes, Graham Bradley and Nicky
Tan will step down as non-executive directors after the annual
meeting, the statement said. The company appointed Low Check
Kian, chairman of private equity firm NewSmith Capital Partners
LLP, has been appointed as a non-executive director.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean Collins in  Singapore  at 
 scollins14@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  