-- 
Red Hat, Google, Adidas, PepsiCo: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-05-09T11:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/smeia-red-hat-google-adidas-pepsico-intellectual-property.html
The U.K.’s patent system is
“broken,” a group of small and medium-sized businesses said in
a  letter  to Prime Minister  David Cameron .  The letter, sent May 5, was signed by 32 companies that are
members of Small Medium-sized Entity Innovation Alliance. In the
letter, the organization said most small businesses in the U.K.
“know only too well the failure of the patent system and have
given up.”  They claimed that their country offers “no effective means
of patent enforcement” in the home country and no assistance
for overseas patent enforcement.  They claim that large companies like the patent system
“just the way it is” and that they will have more influence in
patent reform.  Physicist  Stephen Hawking , the director of research at
Cambridge University’s Center for Theoretical Cosmology, is the
patron of the organization.  A  message from Hawking  to the organization was posted on
the SMEIA website May 5. In that message, Hawking noted that
“patent theft is one of the big issues” faced by small
companies. He noted that “my illustrious predecessor Galileo
Gallilei had his design for a compass stolen by his one-time
protégé.”  Hawking said that Galileo described the theft as “worse
than murder,” depriving the victim of “honor and merited
glory” obtained “from studies, hard work and long vigils.”  Red Hat Chief Says Company Sometimes Pays Instead of Fighting  Red Hat Inc. (RHT) ’s Chief Executive Officer James M. Whitehurst
 told Network World  that his Raleigh, North Carolina-based
company sometimes settles with patent trolls because it’s not
worth the expense to fight what may be invalid patent claims.  Whitehurst said some software patent cases brought in the
Eastern District of  Texas  come before juries that are “not
technically savvy” and are so complicated that even he, with a
degree in computer science, finds them far over his head,
according to Network world.  Whitehurst, an opponent of software patents, told Network
World such patents prevent companies from moving into some areas
of technology because they’re fearful of litigation and
licensing fees.  Some patent claims the company has faced are
“ridiculous,” merely covering something that shows up on
common websites, Network World reported Whitehurst saying.  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Google Loses Copyright Appeal Over Belgian Newspaper Links  Google Inc. (GOOG)  lost an attempt to overturn a Belgian ruling
that blocked it from publishing links to local newspapers on its
online news service.  The Court of Appeal in Brussels on May 5 upheld a 2007
lower court ruling that forced Google to remove links and
snippets of articles from French- and German-language Belgian
newspapers from Google.com and Google.be. Google, the owner of
the world’s most-used search engine, faced a 25,000-euro
($36,300) daily fine for any delay in implementing the judgment.  Copiepresse , the group that filed the suit on behalf of the
newspapers, said the snippets generated revenue for the search
engines and that publishers should be paid for the content. The
publications have a second suit pending in which they seek as
much as 49.1 million euros for the period in which their content
was visible on Google News.  “This case sets a precedent,” said Flip Petillion, a
Brussels-based partner with  Washington ’s Crowell & Moring LLP,
who wasn’t involved with the case. “Google has every interest
in taking the debate to the highest level, they have no choice”
other than to appeal, he said.  Google said it remains committed to further collaboration
with publishers in finding “new ways for them to make money
from online news.” Google has the option to appeal the ruling
to the Cour de Cassation, Belgium’s highest court.  “We believe Google News to be fully compliant with
copyright law and we’ll review the decision to decide our next
course of action,”  Mountain View , California-based Google said
in an e-mailed statement. “We believe that referencing
information with short headlines and direct links to the source
-- as it is practiced by search engines, Google News and just
about everyone on the web -- is not only legal but also
encourages web users to read newspapers online.”  Copiepresse said in a statement it is pleased with the
decision and “hopes Google will have the intelligence to look
for a fair solution to end this situation.”  “This case will have serious consequences to the way
information is searched and managed” on the Internet, Erik
Valgaeren, a lawyer for Google, told the Court of Appeal at a
Feb. 23 hearing. A negative ruling “would put at risk all
referencing services, or even cause them to disappear.”  Lime Wire  Founder Gorton to Testify on Infringement Damages  Lime Wire LLC founder  Mark Gorton  is set to testify today
in a trial to determine how much he will have to pay the music
recording industry for infringing copyrights.  Music labels owned by  Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) ,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
 Vivendi SA (VIV)  and Citigroup Inc. are seeking hundreds of millions
of dollars from Gorton after U.S. District Judge  Kimba Wood 
ruled last May that Lime Wire induced the infringement of
thousands of songs through its peer-to-peer file-sharing
software on the Internet. The court ordered Lime Wire to shut
its music service last year.  “The harm that Lime Wire has caused is truly staggering,”
Glenn Pomerantz, a lawyer representing 13 labels, told a jury of
eight women and one man in his opening statement on May 3.
“Mark Gorton used other people’s property to make money for
himself.”  Pomerantz told the jury the record industry’s revenue fell
52 percent from 2000, the year Lime Wire was founded, to 2010.
Gorton’s lawyers will try to show that other factors were
responsible for the drop besides peer-to-peer, or P2P, file-
sharing.  “The record companies know and have known that their
problems started well before Lime Wire,” Joseph Baio, a lawyer
representing Lime Wire and Gorton, said in his opening statement
to the jury.  Baio cited the record companies’ own past comments that he
said showed factors other than file-sharing were more to blame
for the plunge in revenue. These included counterfeit and copied
CDs, the economic recession, bankruptcies of music wholesalers
and retailers, the maturation of the CD market, competition from
other forms of entertainment such as video games, and the
industry’s own inability to exploit the new technologies.  The record labels haven’t made public how much they’re
seeking from Gorton. The companies will try to get statutory
damages under federal copyright law for 9,561 recordings
released since 1972, according to court papers. If they seek
maximum statutory damages of $150,000 for each recording, that
could result in a $1.4 billion award. Other damages on pre-1972
recordings will also be sought, the companies said in court
filings.  “We will ask you to consider whether Mark Gorton’s state
of mind justifies the high end of the range,” Pomerantz said to
the jurors.  Baio said the labels deserved far less. Gorton made only
about $6 million from the songs the record companies have listed
as infringed, the lawyer said. Lime Wire, which provided free
software for file sharing, made money by selling a faster,
premium version of the program.  The case is Arista Records LLC v. Lime Wire LLC, 06-05936,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trademark  Adidas Sues Lands’ End, Claims Shoes Infringe 3-Stripe Mark  Adidas AG (ADS) , the sportswear company based in Herzogenaurach,
 Germany , sued  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s Lands’ End unit for
trademark infringement.  The suit, filed May 5 in federal court in Portland, Oregon,
alleges that some shoes sold by Lands’ End infringe Adidas’
three-stripe trademark.  The German company said in court papers that Lands’ End
“intentionally adopted and used substantially indistinguishable
and confusingly similar imitations” of the three-stripe marks
on some of its men’s and boys’ shoes.  The public is likely to believe these shoes are
“manufactured by, authorized by, or in some manner associated
with Adidas,” according to the complaint.  Adidas said it has tried to “resolve this dispute short of
litigation” to no effect. The company claims to have suffered
“substantial injury” as a result of Lands’ End’s actions.  It asked the court to halt Lands’ End’s use of allegedly
infringing marks and for the recall and destruction of all
products and promotional material it says infringed.  Additionally, it seeks an award of money damages, and
requested that the court triple those to punish Lands’ End for
its actions. The company also asked for awards of attorney fees
and litigation costs.  Adidas is represented by  Stephen M. Feldman  of Seattle-
based Perkins Coie LLP and  R. Charles Henn Jr. ,  Charles H.
Hooker III , and  Nichole Davis Chollet  of Atlanta’s Kilpatrick
Townsend & Stockton LLP.  Michele Casper, a Lands’ End spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that her company doesn’t comment on current litigation.  The case is Adidas America Inc., v. Lands’ End Inc., 3:11-
cv-00553, U.S. District Court, District of Oregon (Portland).  Coca-Cola Trademark Lawsuit Against PepsiCo Dismissed  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) ’s trademark-infringement lawsuit over PepsiCo
Inc.’s packaging of a new line of fruit juices was dismissed by
a judge after the companies reached a settlement.  U.S. District Judge Sim Lake signed an order dismissing the
case after the companies submitted a joint motion seeking to
terminate it, according to a May 5 filing in federal court in
Houston.  “All matters in dispute in this case have been fully and
finally resolved by the parties,” lawyers for both sides said
in court papers. Details of their agreement weren’t disclosed.  Coca-Cola, based in Atlanta, sued in October claiming that
the new packaging for PepsiCo’s low-calorie  Trop50  brand of
fruit juices would “likely deceive consumers and dilute the
quality” of Coke’s  Simply  brand of premium juices.  A trial had been set for June. Lake told lawyers for Coca-
Cola and Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo in December that they
should try to settle the dispute out of court to avoid the
expense of trial.  Coca-Cola was represented by Karol A. Kepcharr, Michael
Simons, and Steven Mark Zager of Washington’s Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP. PepsiCo’s lawyers were Scott F. Partridge,
Paul Reilly, Susan Cannon Kennedy and Timothy Stuart Durst of
Houston-based Baker Botts LLP.  The case is Coca-Cola Co. v. PepsiCo Inc., 10-04184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston.)  Ukraine to Return ‘Magarach’ Mark to Government Institute  Ukraine’s Agrarian Policy and Food Ministry will return to
a government institute a  wine  trademark that had been
transferred to ownership of an Estonian company, the KyivPost
 reported .  The Magarach trademark will be returned to the  Magarach
Institute for Winegrowing and Winemaking , according to the
newspaper.  The KyivPost reported that the Prosecutor’s Office of the
Autonomous Republic of Crimea has begun to investigate the
former head of the state-run Magarach Agricultural Co. on
allegations that he illegally transferred the trademark to a
company in Estonia.  The Magarach trademark “is the property of the institute
and we will do everything possible to develop it, Mykola
Prysiazchniuk, Ukraine’s Agriculture and Food Minister, said and
the newspaper reported.  Beer-Drinkers’ Group Seeks Cancellation of DB’s ‘Radler’  A lawyer from New Zealand’s  James & Wells  IP specialty firm
has taken on pro bono representation of an organization of beer
drinkers against  Singapore ’s Asia Pacific Breweries’ DB
Breweries unit trademark registration for the term “radler,”
that country’s Waikato Times newspaper  reported .  The firm’s name partner  Ceri Wells  is arguing that
“radler” is generic for a citrus-flavored beer and that DB is
in the wrong for threatening infringement action against  Green
Man Brewery  of Dunedin, New Zealand, for using the term,
according to the newspaper.  On behalf of the Society of Beer Advocates, Wells is
seeking to have the trademark registration revoked and a
declaration the term is generic, the Times reported.  DB has argued that while “ radler ” may be generic in other
countries, the term was not known in New Zealand until the
trademark was registered in 2003, according to the Times.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 