-- 
Soccer Match-Fixing Investigation Probably Linked to Murders, Police Say

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-05-09T17:44:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/soccer-match-fixing-investigation-probably-linked-to-murders-police-say.html
The most senior police officer
investigating  Europe ’s largest soccer match-fixing ring said he
believed there have been murders linked to the case.  A court in Bochum, Germany, has started hearing a case
against six men accused of being part of a criminal network that
spanned 20 countries and tried to manipulate 300 matches across
Europe.  “I can’t identify them to you but, yes of course,” Bochum
police commissioner Friedhelm Althans said when asked if there
had been deaths linked to the case. He said many of the
criminals drawn to manipulating soccer did so because the
consequences of being caught weren’t as high as in crimes such
as drug trafficking.  Althans spoke after attending a meeting at the headquarters
of soccer’s governing body in Zurich where  FIFA  pledged 20
million euros ($28.6 million) over 10 years to international
police organization Interpol to tackle match-fixing.  The case in Bochum is looking at matches in low-level
competitions like Germany’s fourth division to European soccer’s
elite Champions League, where at least one game has been
investigated for match fixing, according to investigators. About
70 arrests have been made in  Turkey  and another 29 in  Croatia  in
connection with the case, which stretches back to 2009.  FIFA has acted after a spate of suspicious exhibitions
matches, including one between a fake team purporting to
represent the West African state of Togo and Bahrain and games
between Bulgaria and Estonia, and Bolivia and Latvia in Turkey,
where all seven goals were scored from penalties. It’s opened an
investigation into the match officials involved, though doesn’t
have the authority to take legal action against them.  New Training Center  The linkup with Interpol will see the opening of an anti-
corruption training center in  Singapore , according to an
agreement signed today by FIFA President  Sepp Blatter  and
Interpol Secretary General Ronald K. Noble. The agreement
follows from an accord between the organizations to monitor
illegal betting in Asia on games at last summer’s  World Cup  in
 South Africa .  Operations in Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia and  China  led
to 5,000 arrests, and the seizure of $26 million from gambling
dens which handled about $2 billion in unlawful bets, according
to Noble.  “It poses a threat to our citizens safety as these illegal
operations are often controlled by transnational crime
networks,” Noble said. There is “high profit, low risk of
getting caught.”  Tip of Iceberg  Althans said there could be as many as six networks that
are similar to the one his force uncovered in  Germany . In that
case, police recovered 1.5 million euros paid by match-fixers to
referees and players. “This is barely the tip of the iceberg,”
he said.  Separately, the start of Finland’s domestic season was held
up amid a match-fixing inquiry there. Two men were convicted of
trying to manipulate games last week.  Blatter, who’s running for a fourth presidential term in
three weeks, said the threat posed by illegal gambling was one
of the sport’s biggest he’s come across in 36 years with FIFA.  “Fans will no longer go to football matches if they know
they’re fixed and if that happens everything that’s been created
in 107 years in FIFA will count for nothing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Zurich via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 