-- 
Solvay Earnings Top Estimates on Chemicals Prices, Polymers

-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 
2011-05-09T20:16:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/solvay-earnings-top-estimates-on-chemicals-prices-polymers-1-.html
Solvay SA (SOLB) , the world’s biggest soda-
ash maker, reported first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates after raising prices for chemicals such as caustic
soda and boosting production of its most profitable polymers.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time items from
continuing operations rose to 197 million euros ($282.6 million)
in the first quarter from a restated 110 million euros a year
earlier, the Brussels-based company said today in a statement.
Profit exceeded the 157 million-euro average of six analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 23 percent to
1.67 billion euros.  Higher product prices for basic chemicals including soda
ash, caustic soda and fluorinated refrigerants outpaced an
increase in energy costs. Rising global demand for specialty
polymers, led by a 27 percent advance in Asian sales, allowed
Solvay to allocate more capacity to its most profitable
products. Solvay today joined  Rhodia SA (RHA) , the Paris-based company
it agreed to buy in April in a transaction valued at 6.6 billion
euros including debt and pension liabilities, in saying price
increases exceeded the impact of raw-material and energy cost
inflation.  Deal Value  “It looks likely now that cash generation from Rhodia will
cut the enterprise value to 6.4 billion euros by the time the
deal closes,” Andrew Benson, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in
 London , wrote in a note last week. “Rhodia is performing better
than expected and the deal is likely to be more accretive than
we had initially calculated.”  Solvay advanced 1.13 euros, or 1.1 percent, to 99.96 euros
at the 5:35 p.m. close of trading on Euronext Brussels, the
highest closing value in almost 3 1/2 years. The shares have
gained 19 percent since Solvay announced the acquisition of
Rhodia April 4. That’s the second-best performance among the 23
companies included in the Stoxx 600 Chemicals Index in the
period, behind Rhodia. The deal is expected to be completed in
August, Solvay said.  First-quarter net income dropped to 86 million euros from
1.73 billion euros. Solvay’s profit last year included a 1.7
billion-euro pretax gain from the sale of its pharmaceutical
division to Abbott Laboratories as well as six weeks of earnings
from its former drug unit. Excluding the impact of an accounting
change, sales would have climbed to 1.8 billion euros in the
quarter, according to Solvay’s statement.  Rhodia’s Earnings  Rhodia, which makes plastics and products for cosmetics,
detergents, agrochemicals and tires, raised its earnings
forecast last week, saying it will generate at least 1 billion
euros of cash from operations before one-time expenses and
changes in working capital this year. That includes about 150
million euros from trading carbon-dioxide credits, Rhodia Chief
Financial Officer Pascal Bouchiat said on a conference call with
analysts.  Solvay had 5.39 billion euros of cash and short-term
investments available at the end of March, part of which will be
used to pay 31.60 euros a share for Rhodia. Its cash holdings
less financial debt declined to 2.69 billion euros from 2.9
billion euros at the end of last year.  Including  capital spending , the chemicals and plastics
maker faced a 157 million-euro cash shortfall in the quarter
because of higher working capital and an 89 million-euro capital
infusion in a joint venture that’s building a PVC plant in
 Russia  with an annual capacity of 330,000 metric tons, which is
scheduled to start production in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  