-- 
South Africa Coal at Highest in Almost Month on Atlantic Market

-- B y   A l i s t a i r   H o l l o w a y
-- 
2011-05-09T11:46:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/south-african-coal-up-0-3-percent-to-123-93-a-ton-correct-.html
Coal prices at South Africa’s Richards
Bay Coal Terminal, the continent’s biggest export facility for
the fuel, rose to the highest in almost a month on stronger
Atlantic-market demand and speculation  China  may raise imports.  Prices gained 0.3 percent to $123.93 a metric ton May 3 to
6, the highest level since the week ended April 15, data from
Petersfield, England-based researcher  IHS McCloskey  showed.
They’ve risen 33 percent in the past 12 months.  “Stocks are being drawn down in the Atlantic basin and
 Germany  has shut some of its nuclear plants,” Colin Hamilton, a
London-based analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd., said by phone
today. There’s speculation China may come back “more
aggressively” to the international market, he said.  Chinese thermal coal prices at Qinhuangdao port, the
benchmark price for the country, are at the highest since August
2008. That may make Australian and Indonesian supplies more
attractive after stocks at the port dropped 36 percent since
March 4. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has put an extension of
nuclear energy under review and ordered a three-month halt of
the country’s oldest reactors for checks.  Richards Bay Coal Terminal shipped 4.81 million tons of the
fuel in April, according to a statement published on its website
on May 5.  Boost Exports  The terminal’s owners, which include Anglo American Plc,
BHP Billiton Ltd., Xstrata Plc and Total SA among others, are
trying to boost exports to take advantage of rising prices.  While Richards Bay Coal Terminal is capable of shipping 91
million tons of coal a year, it exported 63.4 million
tons in 2010, Chief Executive Officer Raymond Chirwa said on
March 30. Deliveries to the terminal were hindered by
derailments and strikes.  Transnet Ltd., which manages  South Africa ’s rail system,
plans to boost capacity of its Richards Bay coal train line to
67 million tons this year, and eventually to 80 million tons a
year, to increase shipments. The project, which is still in the
planning stage, will cost about 5.1 billion rand ($764 million),
Moira Moses, group executive for capital projects, said in an
interview on May 6.  The McCloskey data are based on a weekly average, excluding
bank holidays such as May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alistair Holloway in London at 
 aholloway1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 