-- 
South Korean Won Rallies From Two-Week Low as Bahk Named New Finance Chief

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 
2011-05-09T06:37:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/south-korean-won-rallies-from-two-week-low-as-bahk-named-new-finance-chief.html
The South  Korean won  rallied from a
two-week low on speculation the government is prioritizing the
fight against inflation with its change in finance minister.  The won also rose on speculation exporters are converting
their U.S. dollars to take advantage of the currency’s decline
last week, according to Sam Hong, senior vice president in
charge of currency strategy at  Shinhan Bank  in Seoul. President
 Lee Myung Bak  nominated Labor Minister Bahk Jae Wan as finance
chief in a May 6 reshuffle. Bahk served as Lee’s secretary for
state affairs for more than two years until July 2010.  “The new head of the  finance ministry  is open minded,”
said Hong. “He will be doing market-oriented policies. That’s
why the Korean won is appreciating a little bit.”  The won rose 0.1 percent to 1,082.38 at the 3 p.m. close in
 Seoul , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
touched 1,091.20 last week, the weakest level since April 19.  Bahk will take over from Yoon Jeung Hyun before June, once
the appointment has been approved by parliament, the president’s
office said. Consumer-price gains exceeded the central bank’s 4
percent ceiling in each of the last four months and Lee on Jan.
4 called for “a war against inflation” to protect low-income
households.  “The new finance minister will likely focus on controlling
prices initially, in line with government policy, which means
the won may strengthen more,” said Lee Sang Jae, a Seoul-based
economist at Hyundai Securities. “It would still be difficult
for any minister to let the won gain too rapidly.”  Asian currencies also gained after the Labor Department
said on May 6 that U.S. employers added 244,000 jobs in April,
compared with the median estimate of 185,000 in a Bloomberg News
survey. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  will ask  China  to
favor a stronger yuan at an annual Strategic and Economic
Dialogue in Washington today and tomorrow.  Five-year bonds were little changed after an auction of the
securities attracted bids worth 8.29 trillion won ($7.7 billion),
or 4.15 times the amount on offer. The government sold 2
trillion won of the securities at 4.09 percent.  The yield on South Korea’s 4 percent bond due March 2016
fell one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.07 percent,
prices from Korea Exchange Inc. show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  