-- 
Sugar Rises on Lower Brazil Supply; Cocoa Steady; Coffee Falls

-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a   a n d   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 
2011-05-09T18:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/sugar-rises-on-lower-brazil-supply-cocoa-steady-coffee-falls.html
Sugar rose the most in more than two
weeks on concern that output this year in  Brazil , the world’s
biggest producer, will trail estimates. Cocoa was unchanged, and
coffee declined.  Unica, a Brazilian sugar-industry group, said on May 6 that
output in the Center South, the main producing region, will miss
a March forecast of 34.6 million metric tons because sucrose
content in the cane was less than expected and a large
percentage of the raw material was used to make ethanol.
Commodities rebounded after plunging last week.  “With a possible downgrade to Brazilian sugar-output
estimates, we can now go back to watching the fundamentals,”
Connor Noonan, an analyst at Castlestone Management Ltd. in
London, said in an e-mail. “Prices are rising after sugar was
oversold last week as investment firms exited positions.”  Raw sugar for July delivery advanced 0.49 cent, or 2.4
percent, to settle at 20.96 cents a pound at 2 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in  New York , the biggest gain since April 20. On
May 6, the price touched 20.4 cents, the lowest for a most-
active contract since September.  “We may see prices firm up again if Brazil’s crop
disappoints,” said  Michael McDougall , a senior vice president
at Newedge USA in New York.  In London, refined-sugar futures for August delivery rose
$1.70, or 0.3 percent, to $583.70 a ton on NYSE Liffe.  Cocoa futures for July delivery were unchanged at $3,082 a
ton in New York.  Arabica-coffee futures for July delivery declined 0.15 cent
to $2.874 a pound.  In London, robusta coffee and cocoa advanced.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 