-- 
Sul America Has $500 Million for Brazil Insurance Acquisitions, CFO Says

-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 
2011-05-09T20:56:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/sul-america-has-500-million-for-brazil-insurance-acquisitions-cfo-says.html
Sul America SA (SULA3) , the Brazilian insurer
part-owned by  ING Groep NV (INGA) , has 800 million reais ($500 million)
for acquisitions in the South American country to tap growing
demand for insurance, two executives said.  “The company keeps a certain amount of cash to take
advantage of opportunities that may arise,” Chief Financial
Officer Arthur Farme d’Amoed Neto said in an interview in Sao
Paulo today. “We want to grow through acquisitions.”  The fastest economic growth in more than two decades and
rising salaries are helping boost demand for health insurance,
car insurance, asset management and pension fund services in
Brazil, said Patrick de Larragoiti Lucas, chairman of Rio de
Janeiro-based Sul America. The health insurance industry, which
accounts for about 65 percent of the company’s revenue, may grow
18 percent this year in  Brazil , he said.  Latin America ’s largest
economy expanded 7.5 percent last year, the quickest since 1986.  Sul America may buy companies, portfolios or sign
commercial agreements to distribute its products in Brazil, said
Amoed, who declined to name any targets or give further details
on talks held by Sul America. The company isn’t close to signing
any agreement, he said.  The insurer agreed in December to buy Dental Plan Ltda. to
gain customers in the north and northeast regions of Brazil. Sul
America also signed an accord to buy a stake in health insurer
Brasilsaude from Banco do Brasil SA in May.  Sul America rose 1.3 percent to 19.83 reais in  Sao Paulo 
trading. ING declined 4.4 percent to 8.593 euros in Amsterdam
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  