-- 
Mississippi River May Cause Most Flooding Losses Since 2005

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-05-09T20:07:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/surge-of-mississippi-may-cause-most-flooding-losses-for-u-s-since-katrina.html
The  Mississippi River ’s surge may
cause the most flooding losses in the U.S. since  Hurricane
Katrina  in 2005, with the federal government shouldering the
majority of claims.  Flooding costs in states including  Tennessee  and Missouri
may exceed losses from 2008 when Hurricane Ike struck  Texas  and
the Cedar River crested in  Iowa , according to Elizabeth Malone,
insurance-industry analyst at Wunderlich Securities Inc. Katrina
caused more than  $16 billion  in losses to the U.S. National
Flood Insurance Program, which covers homes and some businesses.
Ike led to about $2.6 billion in NFIP claims.  “You’d have to go back to Katrina to see something similar
in terms of loss” from flooding, Malone said in a phone
interview today. The industry losses from Katrina were
“certainly more than this because the Mississippi flooding, for
the most part, is not affecting that many urban areas.”  Claims from the flooding will add to losses suffered by
insurers last month, which were the highest for an April in the
U.S. since at least 2006, according to data compiled by  Aon
Corp. (AON) , the largest insurance broker. Tornados in  Alabama  and
wildfires in Texas contributed to more than $5 billion in U.S.
industry losses last month, Aon said.  The Mississippi River is forecast to crest today at 48 feet
in Memphis, Tennessee, just below a record set almost three
quarters of a century ago, according to the  National Weather
Service . The bulge of water threatens more than 3,000 buildings
in Shelby County, which includes Memphis, the local emergency
management agency said yesterday.  Federal Programs  Flooding claims from residential customers and farmers are
likely to be borne by the U.S. government, said  Robert Hartwig ,
president and chief economist of the  Insurance Information
Institute , a trade group. The NFIP covers residential damage and
the Federal Crop Insurance Corp. covers farmers’ losses.  “While we may be seeing the largest flooding event post-
Katrina, it is simply not going to produce significant privately
insured losses,” said Hartwig. “Historically these are losses
that have found their way into the National Flood Insurance
Program, particularly when we’re not going to see the major
flooding of an urban area.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Property & Casualty Insurance
Index advanced 0.3 percent at 4:06 p.m. in  New York .  U.S. insurers typically incur the biggest catastrophe costs
during the June-to-November Atlantic hurricane season, with wind
damage from the storms costing private carriers more than
flooding. Katrina, which struck  New Orleans , caused total costs
for insurers exceeding $70 billion.  The federal crop-insurance program expects to cover some
losses in  Missouri  and doesn’t yet have an estimate of costs,
said Shirley Pugh, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s Risk Management Agency. A call to the NFIP wasn’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  