-- 
U.K. Banks Abandon Loan Insurance Suit, Set Aside $3.4 Billion for Redress

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-05-09T17:18:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/u-k-banks-accept-loan-insurance-ruling-barclays-sets-aside-1-6-billion.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will set aside about $3.4
billion for customers improperly sold personal-loan insurance
after abandoning a lawsuit to avoid paying compensation.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets, will
earmark 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) and HSBC $440 million,
the banks said in separate statements today. Edinburgh-based
RBS, which had already made a provision of 100 million pounds,
will set aside an additional 850 million pounds, the bank said.  The British Bankers’ Association today abandoned legal
attempts to overturn a court ruling that may force the industry
to pay more than 8 billion pounds.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the
biggest provider of payment protection insurance, last week
broke ranks with competitors and earmarked 3.2 billion pounds to
settle claims with clients who bought the insurance, which
covers payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness
or unemployment.  “When Lloyds says game over, let’s pay up, then everybody
else has to cave in pretty fast,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head
of European equities at MF Global Ltd. in London.  Clients who bought the insurance rarely compared prices and
terms or switched providers, and usually weren’t aware they
could have purchased it elsewhere, according to the Competition
Commission.  “We don’t always get things right for our customers,”
Barclays Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  said in the
statement. “When we get them wrong, we apologize and put them
right.”  ‘Poor’ Handling  “Today signals the end of years of poor PPI complaint
handling and will trigger a dramatic improvement in the way
customers are treated,” the FSA said in a statement. “Banks
must now get on with handling all PPI complaints and paying
redress where appropriate.”  PPI generated as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, with about 6.5 million policies sold in
2006, according to estimates by the FSA. Before the Lloyds
announcement, the FSA had estimated the industry may face
payouts of as much as 4.5 billion pounds.  Deutsche Bank AG analyst Jason Napier estimated last week
that London-based Barclays would need to set aside 1.1 billion
pounds, RBS 1 billion pounds and HSBC about 600 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  