-- 
U.S. ‘Underwater’ Homeowners Increase to 28 Percent, Zillow Says

-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 
2011-05-09T20:19:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/u-s-underwater-homeowners-increase-to-28-percent-zillow-says.html
More than 28 percent of U.S.
homeowners with mortgages owed more than their properties 
were worth in the first quarter as values fell the most 
since 2008, Zillow Inc. said today.  Homeowners with negative equity increased from 22 percent a
year earlier as  home prices  slumped 8.2 percent over the past 12
months, the Seattle-based company said. About 27 percent of
homes with mortgages were “underwater” in the fourth quarter,
according to Zillow, which runs a website with property-value
estimates and real-estate listings.  Home prices fell 3 percent in the first quarter and will
drop as much as 9 percent this year as foreclosures spread and
unemployment remains high, Zillow Chief Economist  Stan Humphries 
said. Prices won’t find a floor until 2012, he said.  “We get tired of telling such a grim story, but
unfortunately this is the story that needs to be told,”
Humphries said in a telephone interview. “Demand is still quite
anemic due to unemployment and the fact that home values are
still falling. And that tends to make people more cautious about
buying.”  The U.S. unemployment rate rose to 9 percent in April, up
from 8.8 percent in March, the Department of Labor reported May
6. Home prices have fallen almost 30 percent from their June
2006 peak, wiping out more than $10 trillion in equity,
including $667.5 billion in the first quarter, Humphries said.  Dropping Home Values  Other analysts also expect homes to continue losing value
this year. Oliver Chang of Morgan Stanley expects prices to fall
as much as 11 percent, according to an April 25 report. Prices
may fall “another 5 or 10 percent,”  Robert Shiller , an
economics professor at  Yale University , told Fox Business on
April 26. Home prices were 33 percent below the July 2006 peak
in February, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller Composite 20-City
Home Price Index, co-created by Shiller.  Prices will continue falling as more houses are lost to
foreclosure, flooding the market with distressed properties,
Humphries said.  Foreclosures fell to the lowest level in three years in the
first quarter as lenders worked through a backlog of flawed
paperwork, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-
based real estate information service. Foreclosure filings are
likely to jump 20 percent this year, reaching a peak for the
housing crisis, RealtyTrac predicted in January.  The number of homes with negative equity rose to 16.2
million in the first quarter from 13.1 million a year earlier,
Zillow said.  Las Vegas  Highest  In Las Vegas, 85 percent of homes with mortgages were
underwater, the most of any city tracked by Zillow. Other
metropolitan areas in the top five were Reno,  Nevada , at 73
percent; Phoenix at 68 percent; and Modesto,  California , and
Tampa,  Florida , both at 60 percent. Zillow has tracked negative
equity since the first quarter of 2009, when more than 22
percent of homes were underwater.  Property values rose in only three of the 132 regions
tracked by Zillow:  Fort Myers , Florida, where they gained 2.4
percent; Champaign-Urbana,  Illinois , up 0.8 percent; and
Honolulu, up 0.3 percent. Fort Myers prices increased after
falling more than 60 percent from their 2006 peak because they
“over-corrected,” Humphries said.  The first quarter’s U.S. home price decline was the
steepest since the fourth quarter of 2008, when prices fell 3.9
percent, according to Zillow data. Values dropped almost 13
percent over the course of that year.  “It’s not going to be as bad as 2008,” Humphries said.
“But it’s going to be worse than we thought it was going to
be.”  ‘Stealing Demand’  Prices were propped up in 2009 and early 2010 by federal
stimulus programs, such as tax credits worth up to $8,000 for
first-time homebuyers, Humphries said. That program “was
stealing demand from the future,” weakening shoppers’ appetites
now even as housing affordability is at its three-decade high,
he said.  “In the past, people felt more bullish in a post-recession
recovery,” he said. “They’d go out and spend more on homes and
that would ignite hiring in construction and the mortgage
industry. And they’d start to get the flywheel moving more
quickly. Unfortunately, now, that flywheel is broken.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Gittelsohn  in  New York  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 