-- 
U.S. Employment Index Declines for First Time in Seven Months

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-09T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/u-s-employment-index-declines-for-first-time-in-seven-months.html
Job prospects in the U.S. weakened in
April for the first time in seven months, a sign that employers
may add fewer workers to payrolls in the second half of the
year.  The Conference Board’s Employment Trends Index decreased
0.6 percent to 100.5, the biggest decline since April 2009, the
New York-based private research group said today. The measure
rose 6 percent from a year earlier.  Labor Department figures last week showed private payrolls
rose by the most in five years and overall employment increased
for a seventh straight month even as the jobless rate climbed.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s has said the labor
market is “improving gradually.”  “While employment is growing at the fastest rate in years,
the leading indicators for employment are decisively flashing
yellow,”  Gad Levanon , associate director of macroeconomic
research at the Conference Board, said today in a statement.
“It is unlikely that the current pace of job growth can be
maintained in the months ahead.”  The index aggregates eight labor-market indicators to
forecast short-term hiring trends. On average, the gauge can
signal a rebound in hiring as little as three months before the
fact, and can predict job declines six to nine months in
advance, the Conference Board said.  Decreases in five of the index’s eight components
contributed to the drop in the ETI. These included a rise in
applications for  unemployment insurance  and a drop in the number
of temporary employees.  April Payrolls  Last week’s Labor Department report showed total payrolls,
which include government agencies, increased by 244,000 in April
after a revised 221,000 gain the prior month. The  unemployment
rate  climbed to 9 percent, the first increase since November.  Among companies adding workers is  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) 
The fourth-biggest U.S. railroad is expanding payrolls as it
benefits from higher shipping volumes. First-quarter profit
excluding some items was $1 a share, topping the 90-cent average
estimate from 27 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “We still have a need for additional employees for the
business that we’ve got out there,” Mark Manion, chief
operating officer of Norfolk Southern, said in an April 27
teleconference. “There is a need to hire for our current
business as well as hiring for the growth that’s anticipated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  