-- 
U.S., China Move to Address Finance, Trade Conflicts in Two Days of Talks

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-05-09T18:45:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/u-s-china-move-to-address-finance-trade-conflicts-in-two-days-of-talks.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Chinese Vice Premier Wang Qishan pledged today to
tackle currency, financial services and trade conflicts between
the world’s two biggest economies.  At the start of the two-day Strategic and Economic
Dialogue, Geithner said China has been making progress “towards
a more flexible exchange rate” and weaning its economy off a
dependence on exports. He also called for China to overhaul its
financial system and said the U.S. will work to improve its
fiscal outlook.  Chinese Commerce Minister  Chen Deming  told reporters the
yuan exchange rate will be discussed with U.S. officials this
afternoon.  Top-ranking officials from the two nations meet in
 Washington  amid U.S. pressure for China to allow the yuan to
rise against the dollar and to tackle inflation by raising
interest rates. Chinese leaders, in turn, have expressed concern
about U.S. budget deficits and spillover effects from the
 Federal Reserve ’s purchases of  Treasury securities  to stimulate
the economy.  Senator Sherrod Brown, a Democrat from Ohio, urged the
administration to press China on the currency issue and also
said Congress should pass legislation to protect American
workers from an undervalued yuan. Brown and Senator Olympia Snowe, a Republican from Maine, have proposed a measure to allow
additional sanctions to address currency issues.  Unique Opportunity  “The Obama Administration has a unique opportunity during
this meeting to urge Chinese officials to stop the unfair and
unjust currency manipulation that threatens American
manufacturing and eliminates American jobs,” Brown said in a
statement. “China’s unfair currency manipulation has gone on
for far too long, and it’s clear that legislation is needed to
level the playing field.”  The U.S. has delayed its semi-annual foreign-exchange
report, which had been due on April 15, until after this week’s
meetings. The previous report, due on Oct. 15, 2010, was
released on Feb. 4 and declined to brand  China  a currency
manipulator while saying the No. 2 U.S. trading partner has made
“insufficient” progress on allowing the yuan to rise.  In remarks today, Wang said the U.S. and China should share
information on economic and financial trends. He said the  U.S.
economy  has “showed improving trends” and that China’s economy
is “sound overall,” even as more work remains to be done.  Clashes, Cooperation  “Our economies face new challenges and deep-seated
problems,” Wang said. Earlier, in his opening remarks, Wang
said there were “clashes” between Chinese and U.S. economic
policies while “we have far more shared interests and
cooperation than differences and competition.”  The yuan was little changed at 6.4939 per dollar as of the
4:30 p.m. close in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. The currency touched 6.4892 on April 29,
the strongest level since 1993.  As the talks opened, Geithner said relations between the
U.S. and China are important to the health and stability of the
world economy. He reiterated that China needs to shift its
economy toward domestic demand while the U.S. focuses on
repairing its labor market and financial system.  “The reforms we must both pursue to meet these very
different challenges are not in conflict, and the strengths of
our economies are still largely complementary,” the Treasury
chief said.  ‘Thriving’ Economy  Geithner and Wang met alongside Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and State Councilor Dai Bingguo at this week’s meetings.
Clinton said the talks would include U.S. concerns about human
rights and said that each nation benefits from a “thriving”
economy in the other.  Senators  Charles Schumer  of  New York  and  Jeff Merkley  of
Oregon called May 6 for a “rebalancing” in the U.S.-China
economic relationship. The two lawmakers, who just returned from
a trip to China, said the Chinese need to open their financial
sector, address “abnormally low deposit and lending rates” and
allow broader  market access  to foreign firms.  Chinese production and U.S. consumption shouldn’t be such
dominating themes, the two Democrats said. “This situation is
not sustainable and harms nearly all involved,” they wrote in a
letter to Geithner.  Heading into this week’s meetings, Treasury officials said
they will urge China to allow higher  interest rates  as part of
economic adjustments. China also should relax controls on the
financial system and give foreign banks and insurers more
access, said David Loevinger, the Treasury Department’s senior
coordinator for China, to reporters in Washington last week.  Interest Rates  China has raised interest rates four times since mid-
October and lenders’ reserve requirement seven times. The
benchmark one-year lending rate increased 0.25 percentage point
to 6.31 percent on April 5. The one-year deposit rate stands at
3.25 percent.  The median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News is for an annual inflation rate in April of 5.2 percent,
down from 5.4 percent in March.  Vice Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said on May 6 that China
is paying “close attention” to U.S. efforts to reduce its
 budget deficit , and his country will focus on improving the
quality of its  exchange-rate  mechanism.  China held $1.15 trillion in Treasuries at the end of
February, more than any other country. The  U.S. trade deficit 
with China came to $18.8 billion in February.  China says a loose monetary policy in the U.S. has helped
lower the value of the dollar, stoking global inflation in food
and energy. A commentary today by the official Xinhua News
Agency said the “plunging” dollar “has become the source of
many current global economic problems.”  U.S. Stance  The Obama administration and U.S. lawmakers have maintained
that China’s currency policy gives the nation’s exporters an
unfair competitive advantage, costing American jobs. Geithner is
trying to convince Chinese officials that a stronger yuan has
benefits for their economy.  Geithner said last week that allowing the yuan to rise and
making the financial system less dependent on government-
controlled interest rates would give Chinese leaders an
“enhanced” ability to damp inflation.  John Frisbie, president of the U.S.-China Business Council,
said support for a stronger yuan among Chinese leaders has
increased in the past year.  “The strong hand has switched over to those who are saying
that the exchange rate can help us fight inflation,” Frisbie
said in a telephone interview. He said his group, whose members
include companies such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , wants China to resume opening its financial
services sector to allow more foreign investment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  