-- 
Lawmakers Aim to Stop Pentagon From Destroying GE Engine

-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 
2011-05-09T20:26:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/u-s-lawmakers-aim-to-stop-pentagon-from-destroying-ge-engine.html
The chairman of the U.S. House Armed
Services Committee plans to prohibit the Defense Department from
destroying or discarding engines made by  General Electric Co. (GE) 
for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.  The Pentagon canceled last month the alternative engine,
known as the F136, over the objections of congressional
supporters including  committee chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican.  In yet unreleased legislation planned as part of the 2012
defense authorization bill, McKeon is proposing to block the
Pentagon from spending any money for “activities related to
destroying or disposing” any “property owned by the federal
government that was acquired under the F136 propulsion system
development contract.”  McKeon also plans to direct the secretary of defense to
develop and carry out a plan to preserve and store the F136
engines developed jointly by General Electric and Rolls-Royce
Group Plc so that the development of those engines can be
“restarted after a period of idleness,” according to a copy of
the legislation obtained by Bloomberg.  The committee is set to vote this week on the 2012 defense
authorization bill, which will set military policy and funding
targets for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1.  Termination  The Defense Department last month terminated the second
engine, which Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  says is unneeded
and wasteful spending.  Pratt & Whitney , a unit of United
Technologies Corp., is the primary engine supplier for  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35.  The U.S. has spent close to $3 billion over the last 14
years to develop the GE-Rolls Royce alternative engine,
according to GE Aviation spokesman  Rick Kennedy .  McKeon will ask the Pentagon to give Congress a plan to
preserve and store the GE engine. That plan, due within 45 days
of the 2012 defense act becoming law, would also allow for the
engine to be stored and preserved at government facilities or at
the contractors’ facilities. The defense chief also has to
identify the cost of restarting the development of the engine.  General Electric Co. will self-fund development of its
alternative engine for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter in fiscal
2012, McKeon said in a speech at the  Heritage Foundation  in
Washington on Thursday.  “The GE team has committed to funding the engine for
fiscal year ‘12 on their own dime,’’ said McKeon. ‘‘I will
accept and support their approach.’’  Engine Competition  GE Aviation spokesman Kennedy said that the GE-Rolls Royce
team will self-fund the development of the alternative engine
for the rest of this year and next year. That would cost more
than $100 million, Kennedy said. The company’s goal is to
compete with primary engine maker Pratt & Whitney, a unit of
 United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , starting in 2016, Kennedy said.  ‘‘I thank GE and Rolls Royce for coming to us with a smart,
viable solution to a tough problem,’’ McKeon said. The GE
alternative engine is 80 percent done and the company will not
lobby for the ‘‘final 20 percent’’ of funding needed to finish
the engine.  Congress would have to reinstate the program in order for
GE and Rolls Royce to have access to Defense Department test
facilities. McKeon’s legislation, if it is approved by the U.S.
House and Senate, would do just that.  Gates has said that completing development of the
alternative engine would cost taxpayers $3 billion. GE disputed
that figure, saying the development cost would be about $1
billion, with an additional $800 million to start production.  Subcommittee Action  Representative Roscoe Bartlett, a Maryland Republican who
leads the House Armed Services air and land forces subcommittee,
proposed last week as part of the bill to limit money spent on
improving the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter engine, primarily its
thrust, unless the secretary of defense makes funds available
for ‘‘two options’’ for the F-35 propulsion system.  The House voted in February to strip $450 million for the
second engine from the fiscal 2011 Pentagon spending bill --a
first for the lower chamber, which previously had supported the
project.  The sponsor of the House provision that cut funding for the
GE-Rolls Royce engine, Florida Republican Tom Rooney, ‘‘is
keeping all options on the table to make sure the defense
authorization bill is not used to restart the wasteful extra
engine program,’’ said Rooney’s spokesman, Michael Mahaffey.
That might include Rooney challenging McKeon when the armed
services panel considers the 2012 defense bill on Wednesday.  House Vote Ahead  ‘‘I am confident that when this bill comes before the full
House, we will again show the American people that we take their
demand for spending cuts seriously, and we will not continue to
throw away their hard-earned tax dollars on a program that the
Pentagon has said repeatedly it does not want or need,’’ Rooney
said in a statement last week.  For two years in a row, the Senate Armed Services Committee
and the Senate Appropriations Committee haven’t included money
for the additional engine in their versions of the defense
authorization and appropriations bills.  -- Editors: Steven Komarow, Terry Atlas  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 