-- 
Huawei Wins First Mobile-Phone Equipment Order in U.K.

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-05-09T10:59:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/huawei-wins-four-year-network-order-in-the-u-k-from-everything-everywhere.html
Huawei Technologies Co., China’s
biggest phone equipment maker, won its first major wireless
network order in the U.K. from Everything Everywhere, the
venture between  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France Telecom SA. (FTE)   Huawei signed a four-year contract to upgrade the U.K.
company’s mobile network equipment, the Shenzhen, China-based
company said in a statement today. The deal will also enable
London-based Everything Everywhere to prepare for high-speed
mobile-data services. Financial details weren’t disclosed.  After starting off in China’s rural communications market
and then expanding through Asia and Africa, Huawei is now
looking to grow in Europe and the U.S. to further close the gap
with market leader Ericsson AB. Huawei is aiming to boost
revenue to about 199 billion yuan ($31 billion) this year from
185 billion yuan last year, the company said last month.  “This contract marks a very significant milestone in the
evolution of the U.K. mobile market and represents yet another
major breakthrough for Huawei in the European tier-one wireless
service provider arena,” said Victor Zhang, chief executive
officer of Huawei’s U.K. unit.  Huawei had previously won part of a contract with  BT Group
Plc (BT/A)  for fixed-line broadband gear in 2005.  T-Mobile, Orange  Everything Everywhere, which operates the T-Mobile and
Orange brands, became the largest mobile-phone company in the
U.K. after a merger of the U.K. units of Deutsche Telekom and
 France Telecom  in 2009. The company had 27.7 million customers
at the end of March, after losing 155,000 users as it shifted
clients to longer contracts.  Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom last month signed a
deal to jointly buy network equipment across all their
territories to save 1.3 billion euros annually ($1.9 billion).
The joint purchasing volume is about 13 billion euros.  Huawei said last month that it planned to double its
workforce in the U.K. to 1,000 people over three years as it
expands its handset unit and seeks corporate clients. The
company is also seeking to gain customers for high-speed fourth-
generation mobile services.  --Edmond Lococo and  Jonathan Browning . Editors: Anand Krishnamoorthy,  Kenneth Wong .  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7507 or
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in  London  +44-20-7073-3381 or
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 