-- 
Tubos Reunidos Has Received Offers for Distribution Division

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-05-09T08:23:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/tubos-reunidos-has-received-offers-for-distribution-division.html
Tubos Reunidos SA (TRG) , a Spanish maker of
seamless steel pipes for customers including  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and BASF SE, has received offers for the distribution unit it
put up for sale in February, Chairman Pedro Abasolo said.  Tubos Reunidos “has already received industrial and
financial offers” for the division, which sells products
including industrial valves and heating and air-conditioning
units, Abasolo said in a phone interview. “We expect to close
the transaction in 2012.” He declined to provide a valuation of
the unit.  The company is sharpening its focus on seamless steel
tubes, as they deliver higher margins, while it divests assets
it doesn’t consider strategic. Rising oil prices in the past
year drove higher demand for tubes from energy companies, while
the distribution unit, with its domestic focus, isn’t likely to
see significant growth soon, Tubos said in February.  Tubos Reunidos, based in the Basque town of Amurrio, had a
surge in foreign orders in the year’s first four months, paced
by demand from  Europe , the U.S.,  South Korea  and  India , the 66-
year-old executive said.  “We’ve received more orders from clients and prices are
even higher,” Abasolo said. “We cautiously believe that profit
growth will continue for the rest of the year.”  Exports Recover  Spain is relying on exports to drive the recovery from its
worst recession in six decades as austerity measures undermine
domestic demand. Exports soared 27 percent from a year earlier
in the first two months of the year, according to the Industry
Ministry.  Tubos Reunidos’s first-quarter net income climbed to 7.2
million euros ($10.4 million) from about 100,000 euros a year
earlier. The company may post full-year net income of 26 million
euros, according to the average of three analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. That compares with a 14.2 million-euro loss
last year, when it set aside a provision of 25.8 million euros
in connection with the planned sale of the distribution
business. Manuel Dias Coelho, an analyst at Banco BPI SA in
Porto,  Portugal , said he estimates the division’s enterprise
value at about 13 million euros.  The company aims for revenue from seamless steel pipes to
climb more than 70 percent through 2014, while earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization will be higher than
20 percent of sales by then, Tubos said May 5.  “We see fundamental catalysts and internal improvements in
the medium and long term” at Tubos,  Robert Jackson , an analyst
at Banesto Bolsa in  Madrid , wrote in a May 5 report. “The
recovery has just started.”  Dividend Plan  The company, whose competitors include  Vallourec SA (VK) , based
near Paris, and Luxembourg-based  Tenaris SA (TEN) , will resume
dividend payments this year, with a payout ratio of 30 percent
of profit, after halting them in 2009, the executive said.  “We’re considering making two payments instead of the
traditional four we used to do,” Abasolo said. “We may make
the first one at the end of this year and the second one early
next year.  The shares have gained 25 percent this year, valuing the
company at 400 million euros, while  Spain ’s benchmark IBEX 35
Index climbed 6.6 percent. Tubos Reunidos shares fell 14 percent
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  