-- 
Turkey Stocks Cut to ‘Underweight’ at Citigroup on Economy, Banks’ Outlook

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-05-09T10:32:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/turkey-stocks-cut-to-underweight-at-citigroup-on-economy-banks-outlook.html
Turkish stocks were cut to
“underweight” from “neutral” at Citigroup Inc., which cited
concern about the country’s widening current-account deficit.  Turkey ’s “economic vulnerability remains very high,”
Citigroup said in a report e-mailed to investors today.
Investors should add to Russian stocks instead, as they’re the
most “attractively-valued in emerging markets.”  The Turkish government’s “underlying fiscal position is
considerably more expansionary than appears at first glance,
which is ill-suited to the high and rising current account
deficit,” Andrew Howell and Maria Gratsova, London-based
Citigroup analysts, said in an e-mailed report dated May 6.
“The central bank’s unorthodox monetary policy seems to be
compounding the risk of overheating.”  Turkey’s central bank is keeping  interest rates  at a record
low while lifting banks’ reserve requirements in an attempt to
curb borrowing that’s fueled a boom in imports. Bank loans
continued to grow at more than 35 percent annually last month,
while the current-account deficit widened for 14 consecutive
months.  The main ISE National 100 share index climbed 0.4 percent
to 68,530.31 at 1:10 p.m. in Istanbul.  Russia ’s  MICEX Index (INDEXCF) 
gained 2.2 percent to 1,681.01.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS, the Turkish lender part-owned by
 UniCredit SpA (UCG) , was also removed from a “preferred stocks” list
for the region, Citigroup said.  In Russia, Citigroup recommended holding large-cap stocks
in energy and mining, and to be “selective” in steel company
investments. “We like the banks, but are more cautious on
consumer, telecoms and utilities,” the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Bentley at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net ; 