-- 
US Airways Union Wants Executive Fired on Safety Concerns

-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-05-09T17:35:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/us-airways-union-wants-executive-fired-on-safety-concerns-2-.html
The  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  pilots  union 
called for the firing of the airline’s executive overseeing
safety, saying he has repeatedly ignored concerns and
recommendations from the group.  Management at the Tempe, Arizona-based airline also
declined to participate in an external-safety evaluation
undertaken by the union, the US Airline Pilots Association said
today in a statement. The union said it advised US Airways in a
letter last month of 17 specific issues to support its request
that Paul Morell, vice president of safety and regulatory
compliance, be fired.  The carrier has been unable to reach a contract agreement
to cover all of its pilots since the 2005 merger of US Airways
and America West Holdings Corp. The two pilots’ groups continue
flying under separate work and scheduling rules and pay scales.  “USAPA has reached out to Mr. Morell time and time again,
requesting his input and guidance about how to alleviate the
many safety issues that face our pilots,” Mike Cleary, union
president, said in the statement. “At best, we have received a
dismissive or tepid response; at worst, complete silence.”  US Airways , the smallest of the major full-fare U.S.
airlines, has an “exceptional” safety record and has a number
of programs for pilots to address safety concerns, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman for the airline.  “Unfortunately, they’ve chosen to use safety as a
negotiating tactic,” he said in a telephone interview. “Our
record on safety definitely speaks for itself.”  Airbus SAS A330 fuel leaks, Boeing Co. 737 fuselage
integrity issues and an aircraft damaged by a bullet were among
items cited by the pilots in their April letter.  US Airways last month said its 737s were not among those
needing stepped-up inspections for fuselage cracks after the
body of a  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  plane ruptured in flight April
1. The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  has been investigating a
possible bullet hole found in a US Airways 737 in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  