-- 
Verbund Says CIR Reviewing Options for Sorgenia Venture

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 
2011-05-09T09:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/verbund-says-cir-reviewing-options-for-sorgenia-correct-.html
Verbund AG (VER) , Austria’s largest utility,
said its partner CIR SpA is reviewing options for Italian
electricity producer Sorgenia SpA.  While CIR has Verbund’s consent to hire an investment bank,
any mandate would be for CIR only, Ines Schurin, a spokeswoman
for Verbund, said by phone from Vienna today. She declined to
comment whether CIR had hired an investment bank.  Verbund, which directly and indirectly holds a stake of
about 45 percent in Sorgenia, will make a decision on what to do
with its holding once CIR does, according to Schurin.  Sorgenia, founded in 1999, operates in the electricity and
natural gas markets and has about 500,000 customers, mainly in
the non-residential sector. In 2010 it had net income of 50.4
million euros ($73 million) and revenue of about 2.7 billion
euros, or about 56 percent of CIR’s total revenue. Sorgenia
forecast revenue in 2016 to rise to 4.8 billion euros and
clients to quadruple to 2 million users.  Led by Chief Executive Officer Rodolfo de Benedetti, CIR
controls businesses including publisher Gruppo Editoriale
L’Espresso SpA, car-parts maker  Sogefi SpA (SO)  and health-services
company KOS SpA.  French daily  Les Echos  reported today that the de Benedetti
family mandated  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to review options for
Sorgenia, citing unidentified people.  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ,
Electricite de France SA and OAO Inter RAO UES have expressed an
interest in Sorgenia, Les Echos said.  GDF Suez spokeswoman Armelle Dillar declined to comment
today by telephone from Paris. Anton Nazarov, a spokesman for
Inter RAO UES in Moscow, did not answer calls to his cell phone
outside of office hours.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  