-- 
Volkswagen Boosts Stake in MAN to Pressure Truckmaker on Scania Alliance

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-05-09T15:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/volkswagen-boosts-stake-in-man-to-pressure-truckmaker-on-scania-alliance.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  plans to boost its
holding in German truckmaker  MAN SE (MAN)  to as much as 40 percent to
forge a truck alliance with  Scania AB (SCVB)  in Sweden that could save
1 billion euros ($1.43 billion) in annual costs.  Wolfsburg, Germany-based VW today increased its stake in
the commercial-vehicles maker to 30.47 percent, requiring
Volkswagen to make a mandatory bid for the entire company.
 Europe ’s largest carmaker offered 95 euros per common share,
less than the May 6 closing price of 96.52 euros.  VW Chairman Ferdinand Piech is pushing MAN and Scania to
reduce spending as he also pursues a merger with Porsche SE and
seeks to surpass  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as the world’s biggest
automaker by 2018. VW’s increased stake may allow the companies
to get regulatory approval to share business information with
one another and work more closely together.  “VW has long been keen to merge MAN and Scania to reap the
benefits on purchasing, development and production,” said  Frank Schwope , a NordLB analyst in Hanover,  Germany , who recommends
buying VW and MAN stock. “They’ve been frustrated by legal
impediments and are taking the lead to see this project
through.”  VW, which before today held 29.9 percent of MAN’s voting
rights, sees cost reductions of about 1 billion euros for an
integrated company fully sharing research and development
activities, Chief Financial Officer Hans Dieter Poetsch said on
a conference call today.  Stake Increase  VW aims for an MAN holding of 35 percent to 40 percent to
give it a stable majority at annual meetings and estimates
reaching that level may cost as much as 1.5 billion euros, he
said. The carmaker will be able to buy the shares it needs on
the open market after making the mandatory bid if enough
investors don’t tender their shares at the offer price.  MAN advanced 1.47 euros, or 1.5 percent, to 97.99 euros as
of the close of trading in Frankfurt today. The stock has gained
10 percent this year, valuing the Munich-based company at 14.2
billion euros. Scania climbed 5.50 kronor, or 3.7 percent, to
155.50 kronor in  Stockholm .  A merger of the two would create Europe’s largest
truckmaker, leapfrogging  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  and  Daimler AG. (DAI)  MAN and Scania
together had 30 percent of the European heavy-truck market last
year, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers’
Association. Volvo and Daimler each had 21 percent.  Scania Combination  MAN has been working on a combination with Soedertaelje-
based Scania since the German company’s hostile bid for the
Swedish competitor failed in 2007. VW bought its MAN stake to
help Scania, which VW controls, fend off MAN’s hostile approach.  MAN shares the industrial logic behind a more intensified
cooperation with Scania and VW, the company said in a statement,
adding it will evaluate the offer after publication.  “This is a step that facilitates the merger between MAN and
Scania, so that’s positive,” Scania spokesman Hans-Ake Danielsson said.  MAN, Scania and rival truckmakers have reported surging
earnings as demand for trucks rises. MAN’s first-quarter
operating profit more than doubled on higher deliveries to
freight transporters and construction companies, while Scania’s
earnings before interest and taxes climbed 41 percent.  MAN at the end of 2008 bought VW’s Brazilian heavy truck
operations for 1.18 billion euros to gain a presence in the
fast-growing market. Scania also build trucks in  Brazil .  Scania last week extended Chief Executive Officer Leif Oestling’s contract through March of 2015. Oestling, who in the
past eschewed acquisitions and fought takeovers, said in
November combining with MAN is necessary to squeeze out cost
reductions.  Volkswagen was advised by  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
Rothschild as well as Linklaters LLP. MAN was advised by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Hengeler Mueller.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  