-- 
Wilmar Expands in Europe With Palm-Oil Refining, Alcohol Plant

-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 
2011-05-09T10:16:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/wilmar-expands-in-europe-with-palm-oil-refining-alcohol-plant.html
Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL) , the world’s
biggest palm-oil producer, will partner with a rival to refine
and sell cooking oil in Europe, seeking to ease its reliance on
 China .  Wilmar, based in Singapore, will supply refined palm oil
from  New Britain Palm Oil Ltd. (NBPO) ’s farms in  Papua New Guinea  and
the Solomon Islands, the two companies said in a statement today.
Separately, Wilmar said it also plans to build a natural-alcohol
plant in the Netherlands.  The European expansion comes after more than six months of
Wilmar being told by the government in China, its biggest market,
to cap cooking oil prices to rein in food inflation. Wilmar’s
oilseed and grains unit posted a $173.2 million loss last year
mostly because of the caps, which made retail oil cheaper than
bulk.  “Wilmar’s always been interested in expanding its presence
in  Europe  and this certified oil is a step forward,” said  Ben Santoso , an analyst with DBS Vickers Securities Pte. “Europe
needs an alternative to rapeseed oil.”  Wilmar rose 0.6 percent to S$5.15 at the end of trading in
Singapore. The stock has declined 8.5 percent this year,
compared with a 1.7 percent drop in the key Straits Times Index.  Biggest Market  Europe accounted for 7.2 percent of Wilmar’s $30.4 billion
in sales last year, while China contributed 52 percent. Wilmar
also refines sugar and has its own palm plantations, as well as
a biodiesel manufacturing business.  “We look forward to being more involved in the local
chemical community and strengthening our foothold in Europe,”
Wilmar Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Kuok Khoon Hong said
today in the statement, referring to the alcohol plant.  According to Wilmar’s partnership with  New Britain , oil-
palm fruits grown at the London-listed company’s certified
sustainable plantations will be processed by Wilmar in Germany
and jointly marketed. Wilmar’s plant in Germany will begin palm
oil refining from the middle of next year, producing as much as
300,000 metric tons of the product per year.  Europe each year buys about 5 million tons of palm oil,
which is used to make bread, cereals, margarine and lipstick,
Wilmar said.  The company’s natural alcohol plant will be built near the
port of Rotterdam jointly with Salt Lake City, U.S.-based
 Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , it said in a statement today. The factory is due
to come on stream in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  