-- 
Twitter Posts Make Enforcing U.K.’s Media Super-Injunctions a ‘Nightmare’

-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 
2011-05-09T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/twitter-posts-make-enforcing-u-k-super-injunctions-a-judicial-nightmare-.html
Politicians, celebrities and
executives who won court orders blocking British newspapers from
publishing stories about their private lives are finding social
media is overcoming their so-called super-injunctions.  A Twitter Inc. user on May 8 posted a series of messages
claiming a number of U.K. celebrities had won super-injunctions
and made allegations detailing the activities that the notable
people sought to keep out of the public eye. A day later the
posts were still accessible and media lawyers said if someone
didn’t take action against the person who posted the
information, the injunctions will look unenforceable.  “This is one of those nightmare judicial situations,”
James Quartermaine, a media lawyer at Charles Russell in London
said in a telephone interview. “If a law doesn’t get enforced,
it begins to look unenforceable.”  Privacy rulings have been on the rise since Formula One
President Max Mosley won a ruling in 2008 that his  privacy
rights  were violated by a story in  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the
World about a Nazi-themed sex party. The flurry of rulings
brought opposition from Prime Minister  David Cameron , who said
Parliament, and not the courts, should set U.K. privacy law. One
lawmaker estimated as many as 30 of the orders have been issued,
with at least four granted within the last month.  Super-injunctions bar U.K. media from writing about extra-
marital affairs or identifying celebrities involved.  Rod Dadak, a defamation lawyer at Lewis Silkin in London,
said the Attorney General should be taking action.  ‘Contempt’  “He’s in contempt, so he can be sent to prison,” Dadak
said, referring to the Twitter user. “He’s contravened an order
by the court not to name someone.”  Bernadette Caffarey, spokeswoman for Attorney General
Dominic Grieve said that, as privacy injunctions are part of
civil law, it is up to the people who have been named to sue.  “It is for the party who obtained an injunction to apply
to the court if it wishes to do so to bring proceedings for
contempt,” the communications office for the judiciary said in
an e-mailed statement. “The court will not take action of its
own initiative.”  If someone who holds a super-injunction seeks to enforce it
regarding the Twitter posts, they face the hurdle of getting the
identity of the poster from Twitter and the San Francisco-based
company might not be inclined to help, Quartermaine said.  American firms “often tell you to ‘get stuffed’ if they
get a letter from a U.K. media lawyer,” he said, noting that
even if served with a U.K. court order, they may not comply.  Some U.S. states have laws designed to combat the rulings
from  London  media courts, and the notion of a privacy order
gagging newspapers “might stick in the throat a little, given
American ideas about freedom of speech,” he said.  “It could get pretty political,” he said. “But any law
that doesn’t get enforced quickly begins to look dodgy.”  Matt Graves, a spokesman for Twitter, tweeted and said in
an e-mailed statement yesterday that the company doesn’t comment
on individual accounts.  “In keeping with our policy, we review reports that
accounts violate the Twitter Rules and Twitter terms of
service,” Graves said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 