-- 
Woody Allen Teams With Bruni, Sarkozy Satirized in Cannes Films

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-09T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/woody-allen-teams-with-bruni-sarkozy-satirized-in-cannes-movies-preview.html
France ’s presidential couple are set
to hog the spotlight at this year’s  Cannes Film Festival  as they
feature in two movies premiering during the 11-day event.  Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, the First Lady and former model, has a
cameo in Woody Allen’s romantic comedy “Midnight in Paris,”
opening the festival tomorrow. Her husband President  Nicolas Sarkozy , played by Denis Podalydes, is the main character in the
satire “La Conquete” (“The Conquest”), screening on May 18.  Bruni-Sarkozy is cast as a demure Parisienne who wears her
hair up and works as a gallery guide. The First Lady’s stint on
the set triggered snarky media allusions to her inexperience --
and a firm rebuttal from director Allen.  “We did not have to do many takes: She acted easily and
gracefully,” he told RTL radio. “I made her a guide at the
Rodin Museum, and she played the part absolutely perfectly.”  “She has the talent to do a bigger role, but would not
have been able to do that because she has obligations other
places,” he said.  Her husband’s personal life will be unraveled for festival
goers in a film by Xavier Durringer. The story shows how
Sarkozy’s victory at the polls in 2007 was twinned with personal
defeat: His second wife walked out on him.  All told, 20 movies -- excluding the two Sarkozy couple
titles -- are competing for Cannes’s top award, the Palme d’Or,
handed out May 22. Jury president  Robert De Niro  will be aided
by eight judges including Jude Law and Uma Thurman.  Sean Penn ,  Brad Pitt ,  Johnny Depp  and Tilda Swinton are all
stars with Cannes premieres this year.  Penn, Pitt  Penn is the lead in two movies, both of them contenders for
the top prize. Terrence Malick’s “The Tree of Life,” co-
starring Pitt, is about a naive Midwestern boy who grows up to
be a disenchanted adult. “This Must Be the Place,” by  Italy ’s
Paolo Sorrentino, casts Penn as an ageing rock star returning to
the U.S. after his dad’s death.  Depp is the bandana-wearing hero of “Pirates of the
Caribbean: On Stranger Tides” -- the fourth movie in the
franchise. On his way to the mythical Fountain of Youth, he
meets a battery of adversaries, including the series’s first
female pirate (played by Penelope Cruz).  Tilda Swinton plays the ambivalent mom with the nightmare
son in “We Need to Talk About Kevin” -- adapted from the
Lionel Shriver novel. Written and directed by Lynne Ramsay, the
film is also on the shortlist for the Palme d’Or.  Banderas, Gainsbourg  Other finalists include  Spain ’s Pedro Almodovar, with “La
Piel Que Habito” (“The Skin I Live In,”) starring Antonio Banderas;  Denmark ’s Lars von Trier, with “Melancholia,”
featuring Kirsten Dunst and Charlotte Gainsbourg; and Italy’s
Nanni Moretti with “Habemus Papam,” about a newly-elected
pope’s relationship with his therapist.  Cannes will also show films by two Iranian directors
currently appealing six-year jail sentences in their home
country: Jafar Panahi and Mohammad Rasoulof. Both banned for 20
years from making movies, the men shot these titles in “semi-
clandestine conditions,” according to a festival release.  The first Cannes film festival took place in 1946, a year
after World War II ended. Among the event’s earliest award
winners were directors Orson Welles, Luis Bunuel,  Ingmar Bergman 
and Satyajit Ray.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 