-- 
Yemen Is ‘Collapsing’ Amid Stalemate, Former Premier Numan Says

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-05-09T14:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/yemen-is-collapsing-amid-stalemate-former-premier-numan-says.html
Yemen is “collapsing” amid a
political stalemate between the ruling General People’s Congress
and opposition groups seeking to topple President Ali Abdullah Saleh, said Yasin Said Numan, secretary general of Yemen’s
opposition Socialist Party.  To avoid “catastrophic consequences,” Saleh and the Gulf
Cooperation Council should immediately sign a GCC-brokered plan
that would grant the president immunity if he steps down 30 days
afterward, Numan said today in a telephone interview from
Sana’a, Yemen’s capital.  Numan was prime minister of the People’s Democratic
Republic of Yemen from 1986 until unification of north and south
Yemen in 1990.  On the GCC peace plan:  “The GCC plan should be implemented as soon as possible.
We don’t have time to waste. We will have 60 days to elect a new
president once the two sides sign.  ‘‘In that time, the economic situation and the security
situation we are facing here need to be considered. The people
in the streets are refusing any delay. If there is a delay, we
will witness catastrophic consequences.’’  On succession:  ‘‘This country without this regime will be much better off
than it is now. People need to know that this regime has created
a lot of problems for this country.’’  On Yemen’s economic situation:  ‘‘There is no cooking gas, no petrol, things are vanishing
and if things continue this way, we will learn what a real
crisis is. The country is collapsing everywhere.  ‘‘We have considerable resources, maybe not enough, but
considerable. If you look at the aid and financial aid that have
been given to this regime over the recent period -- it’s been
substantial, but the people have not seen a penny.  ‘‘The problems of this economy will first be overcome if we
get rid of corruption. One of the biggest problems in this
country is corruption.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  