-- 
Yemen Crackdown Kills 3 Protesters, Dozens Hurt, Clinic Says

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 
2011-05-09T11:59:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-09/yemen-crackdown-kills-3-protesters-dozens-hurt-clinic-says-1-.html
Three protesters were killed and about
80 sustained gunshot wounds in the Yemeni city of Taiz as police
used live rounds and teargas during an anti-government
demonstration, according to a field clinic chief.  Seven of those injured aren’t expected to survive, while
about 300 other demonstrators suffered teargas inhalation during
the operation today, Sadek al-Shujaa said by telephone. Clashes
were continuing in Taiz, where tanks and armored vehicles were
deployed, said Bushra al-Maktari, an opposition activist. Two
protesters died and more than 10 were wounded yesterday in a
similar incident, she said by telephone.  Protests have persisted since the government and the Joint
Meetings Party, Yemen’s six-party opposition coalition, agreed
to an April 3 Gulf Cooperation Council-brokered plan for
PresidentAli Abdullah Saleh to cede power within a month of
signing the deal and be granted immunity from prosecution. He
would be the third Middle Eastern leader forced from office by
protest movements this year, after  Egypt ’s  Hosni Mubarak  and
 Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali.  The opposition bloc yesterday gave Saleh two days in which
to sign the GCC plan, a move the ruling party said may cause the
collapse of talks sponsored by the GCC to end the country’s
political crisis. The Joint Meetings Party said yesterday it
will abandon all talks if Saleh doesn’t sign the agreement
before the end of the day tomorrow.  “We are ready to sign the GCC agreement,” Tarik al-Shami,
spokesman for the ruling General People’s Congress, said today
by telephone. The party demands an end to all protests,
including rebellions by some military units, before Saleh steps
down, he said.  May Join Protesters  Mohammed Abdulmalik al-Mutawakil, a member of the Supreme
Council of the Joint Meetings Party, said in a telephone
interview today that if Saleh doesn’t sign, “we will halt the
political process and join and support the protests and start
dialogue with the protesters.”  Protests calling for an end to Saleh’s rule began in
January. At least 100 demonstrators have been shot dead by the
security forces, according to the Arabic Sisters Forum for Human
Rights in Sana’a.  “The country is collapsing everywhere,” said Yasin Said
Numan, secretary-general of Yemen’s opposition Socialist Party
and prime minister of the People’s Democratic Republic of Yemen
from 1986 until unification of the north and south in 1990.  “This regime has created a lot of problems in this
country,” he said in a telephone interview today from Sana’a.
“There is no cooking gas, no petrol, things are vanishing and
if things continue this way, we will learn what a real crisis
is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 