-- ‘Enron’ Author Tests Love; Mari Sings: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2013-01-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/-enron-author-tests-love-mari-sings-london-weekend.html
Tristan and Connie are laboratory
guinea pigs: They have volunteered to test an antidepressant
under medical supervision.  They’re also the protagonists of “The Effect” by Lucy Prebble, whose “Enron” famously dramatized a corporate meltdown.  This time, Prebble examines the meaning of love -- and the
power of drugs.  As they take the pill, Tristan (Jonjo O’Neill) and Connie
(Billie Piper from “Belle de Jour”) start displaying signs of
passion. They get sweaty and excited, and their heartbeat
accelerates. Is it because of the drug, or in spite of it? Who
can tell?  Director Rupert Goold delivers a solid piece of theater
with high-caliber acting. At the National Theatre’s Cottesloe
(also on Saturday afternoon and evening).  Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or call
+44-20-7452-3000.  Saturday  The 1960s and 1970s saw the horrors of the  Vietnam War ,
civil-rights campaigners marching in America, and  South Africa 
enduring the indignity of apartheid.  Those episodes and more are illustrated in a Barbican photo
exhibition ending this weekend. Larry Burrows pictures U.S.
soldiers in  Vietnam  dragging a dead comrade through tall grass.
Bruce Davidson photographs a seated  Martin Luther King  with
reporters towering over him. David Goldblatt portrays the
cramped conditions in the South African township of Soweto.  The show is a bit of a grab-bag, and could use some
definition. Yet there’s a lot of fine photography on display.  “Everything Was Moving: Photography from the 60s and 70s”
ends Sunday at the Barbican Art Gallery. Information:
 http://www.barbican.org.uk  or +44-20-7638-8891.  Alba, just up the road from the Barbican, has been serving
modern Italian food for more than 20 years. It’s a quiet and
understated restaurant, which now opens on Saturdays for lunch
and dinner. Information:  http://www.albarestaurant.com/  or
+44-20-7588-1798.  Saturday Night  Get to hear the singer whose skyscraper beehive hairstyle
and retro songs are credited as a major influence on the young
 Amy Winehouse .  Mari Wilson  came to fame belting out the 1982 retro hit
“Just What I Always Wanted” with the Wilsations. She followed
with more 1960s-style singles such as “(Beware) Boyfriend”
before moving into jazz with “Cry Me a River.” She has a great
voice for standards by  Irving Berlin , Burt Bacharach and Rogers
and Hart.  Wilson is the guest of another of Britain’s most popular
jazz vocalists,  Ian Shaw . The crooner and pianist has been
playing dates with friends at a Soho dining venue so small that
booking is essential.  Pizza Express Jazz Club, 10 Dean St., W1D 3RW. Information:
 http://pizzaexpresslive.com ,  http://www.mariwilson.co.uk/   Sunday  So far this winter,  London  is not experiencing freezing
temperatures. Just as some colder weather is forecast, the ice
sculpting festival is starting.  The annual event takes place all weekend in  Canary Wharf ,
with professional artists chiseling away around the themes of
infinity and the wonders of the universe. Visitors can play ice
chess or scrawl on an ice graffiti wall.  Information:  http://www.londonicesculptingfestival.co.uk .  Iberica, a contemporary Spanish restaurant, is excellent
for lunch on Sundays at Canary Wharf. You can stop by for a meal
or just for a glass of wine and some tapas. The ingredients are
good and the dishes authentic and reasonably priced.  Information:  http://www.ibericalondon.co.uk/  or
+44-20-7636-8650.  Sunday Night  Tim Hugh is the soloist in Elgar’s Cello Concerto at the
Barbican on Sunday Evening. The London Symphony Orchestra and
choir concert also includes Mozart’s Requiem.  The event was to be called “Sir Colin Davis at 85,” with a
rare appearance by the veteran conductor. The orchestra said in
a statement Sir Colin is recovering from illness and hopes to
conduct again in March. Yutaka Sado stands in for him.  Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, Silk St, EC2Y 8BS.
Information:  http://lso.co.uk/144/Elgar-and-Mozart/483   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich 
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Lance Esplund  on art and  Catherine Hickley  
on film.  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 