-- ‘Girls’ Better Than Ever; Fine ‘Enlightened’: TV Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2013-01-10T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/-girls-better-than-ever-fine-enlightenment-tv-review.html
“You’re my main hang” proves to be
too little, too late for Hannah, the heartbeat of Lena Dunham’s
extraordinary “ Girls ” on  HBO (TWX) , when she finally hears those words
from her moody maybe-boyfriend this season.  Hannah, like “Girls” itself, has moved on.  The second season of Dunham’s comic drama, which chronicles
four young women negotiating adulthood, love and  Brooklyn ,
arrives with considerable expectations.  Season One was a critical favorite that made instant
celebrities of its young cast, especially Dunham, the show’s
creator, chief writer and director, not to mention star.  Based on the four half-hour episodes available for review,
she’s done it again.  Despite a misstep or two -- a third-episode storyline about
a cocaine adventure rings false -- “Girls” builds on its success
without skipping a beat.  Picking up where last season ended, Hannah is tending
homebound boyfriend Adam (Adam Driver), his right leg busted
after the cab accident in last year’s finale.  Feeling smothered, she’s also dating Sandy (Donald Glover),
a black Republican (and likely retort to early critics who
complained of the series’ homogeneity).  Hannah’s best friend Marnie (Allison Williams), meanwhile,
is out of a job and lonely for her gushy ex-boyfriend Charlie
(Chris Abbott), who rebounded quicker than anyone expected.  Grumpy Hipster  Shoshanna (Zosia Mamet), the nerdy girl who seems so out of
place in the trendy Williamsburg-Bushwick milieu, has found love
with grumpy hipster Ray (Alex Karpovsky), while the bohemian
Jessa (Jemima Kirke) returns from her honeymoon with doofus
venture capitalist Thomas-John (Chris O’Dowd).  Kirke’s absence from the Williamsburg fold is felt in the
first couple of episodes. Guest star Andrew Rannells (“The New
Normal”) as Hannah’s gay roommate, fills some of the void, even
if his quippy role seems a bit too sitcom-sassy for this show.  No matter, though. Kirke returns full force soon enough, and
a fourth-episode prodigal friend scene with Dunham’s Hannah is
pure “Girls” -- as crude and funny as it is tender.  “Girls” airs Sunday on HBO at 9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating:
*****  ‘Enlightened’ Heroine  In its own eccentric way, “ Enlightened ” paints as sure a
portrait of the zeitgeist as the thunder-stealing “Girls.”  The lovely, bristly series stars Laura Dern as a corporate
whistle-blower whose burgeoning social activism has been all but
indistinguishable from her madness.  Or so it seemed.  If the show’s under-watched debut followed Dern’s office
drone Amy Jellicoe as she reassembled herself following an
emotional collapse, the sophomore season suggests that the
abrasive, aphorism-spouting do-gooder might have a firmer take
on contemporary reality than anyone suspects.  Set mostly in the fictional Abaddonn Industries
headquarters, “Enlightened” ended its first season with Amy
rebuffed in her attempts to convince corporate higher-ups to
change their corrupt, polluting ways.  Now she’s taking her evidence to a crusading L.A. Times
reporter -- and he’s not laughing at her.  Dermot Mulroney plays the journalist, and keeps us wondering
about the character’s motives.  Molly Shannon  Also this season, Molly Shannon guest stars as a coworker
and possible love interest for the ever-lonesome Tyler (Mike
White, the show’s co-creator and chief writer).  Dern and Luke Wilson (as Amy’s drug-addict ex-husband) are
giving the performances of their careers here, and White is
terrific as a self-described “ghost” in a world where everyone
seems coupled.  One of the show’s biggest treats, though, is Diane Ladd,
Dern’s onscreen (and real-life) mom. Her Helen is one of TV’s
most intriguing portraits of old age, a bone-tired, emotionally
drained woman who loves her troubled daughter just as much as
she’s sick of her.  “Enlightened” airs Sunday on  HBO  at 9:30 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ****  ‘Banshee’ Con  With a title and pedigree that suggests ghouls howling at
the moon, Cinemax’s “ Banshee ” is bound to disappoint.  Coproduced by “ True Blood ” creator Alan Ball, “Banshee” is a
not-strange-enough cop tale about an ex-con thief (Antony Starr,
good-looking and affectless) who falsely assumes the identity of
a small-town sheriff.  Set in the fictional Banshee,  Pennsylvania , the violent,
flesh-packed series has a few quirky flourishes, even if they
seem cribbed from other, better shows.  The faux-sheriff’s tough transvestite pal (Hoon Lee) would
be at home on “True Blood,” while Banshee’s lapsed-Amish crime
lord (Ulrich Thomsen) is a “ Big Love ” baddie without the sister-
wives.  “Banshee” airs Friday on Cinemax at 10 p.m. New York time.
Rating: **1/2  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  tech  and  Jason
Harper  on supercars.  To contact the writer on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 