-- T-Mobile CEO Says It’s One More Year of Subscriber Losses
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-01-10T15:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/t-mobile-ceo-says-it-s-one-more-year-of-subscriber-losses.html
T-Mobile USA Inc. Chief Executive
Officer John Legere said the carrier has put in place the
necessary pieces -- the iPhone, a faster network and a service
plan that lets customers buy phones in installments -- to end
subscriber losses next year.  There will be some “incremental” monthly user gains by
the fourth quarter of this year and subscriber numbers “should
be positive” in 2014, Legere said in an interview yesterday at
the International  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas . “It
won’t be linear, but it should be sustainable.”  T-Mobile lost 1.03 million monthly subscribers in the first
three quarters of 2012 as lucrative smartphone customers
switched to speedier long-term evolution, or LTE, services at
 Verizon Wireless  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  The swing from losing subscribers
to gaining contract customers would be a milestone for Legere,
who took over as the top executive for  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s
U.S. mobile business in September.  “This would be a big turnaround for them,” said Jan Dawson, an analyst at London-based Ovum Ltd. “T-Mobile has
really struggled to grow consistently in postpaid the last
several years, so that would be major progress.”  Halting customer erosion would be a surprise to some
analysts. Guy Peddy, an analyst at Macquarie Bank Ltd. in
 London , predicts T-Mobile will lose 1.6 million monthly
subscribers this year and another 400,000 in 2014.  ‘Value Plan’  T-Mobile has been building its own LTE network, which it
expects to cover an area reaching 100 million people by mid-
year. T-Mobile is also merging with  MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) 
in a pending deal that would give Deutsche Telekom 74 percent of
the combined business in exchange for a $1.5 billion payment to
MetroPCS shareholders. The companies are targeting a completion
of the transaction in the first half of the year.  Getting to subscriber growth is a top priority, Legere
said. Last month, Deutsche Telekom announced that it had made a
deal with Apple Inc. to have T-Mobile sell the iPhone, making it
the last of the major U.S. carriers to get the device.  Selling the iPhone, through a flexible, interest-free
financing agreement, where customers can pay upfront or in
installments, is how Legere describes T-Mobile’s “value plan”
approach. Customer defections, or churn, will slow down with the
addition of the iPhone, he said.  “The iPhone and the value plan is a big part of this,”
Legere said. “We need churn to come down, and without an iconic
device, that would be hard to do.”  Deutsche Telekom gained 0.4 percent to 9.17 euros at 4:06
p.m. in  Frankfurt . The shares slid 3 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  