-- M&S’s Bolland May Have Year to Revive Clothing as Sales Slump
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2013-01-10T15:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/m-s-s-bolland-may-have-year-to-revive-clothing-as-sales-slump.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  Chief
Executive Officer  Marc Bolland  may have only a year to prove he
can revive Britain’s biggest clothing retailer after reporting a
sixth straight quarterly drop in non-food sales.  Investor patience is likely to wear thin if the London-
based company hasn’t shown any evidence of a revenue revival by
the end of the next autumn and winter clothing season, according
to  Kate Calvert , an analyst at Seymour Pierce in  London .  “He has a very tall order to try and sort out womenswear
in particular,” said Calvert, who has a hold  recommendation .  Bolland, 52, said yesterday that the performance of the
company’s general merchandise unit, whose fashions have failed
to win shoppers, was “not yet satisfactory” almost three years
after he took the helm. Marks & Spencer  shares  fell as much as
5.2 percent to 351.6 pence in London today, taking them below
the 366.5 pence at which they traded when Bolland started.  Marks & Spencer clothing is “frumpy, boring and expensive
for what it is,” according to  Louise Cooper , an analyst at
CooperCity in London. “As a 42-year-old mother, I imagine I am
their target customer, but they haven’t dressed me in years.”  Bolland is placing his faith in a new U.K. management team,
led by former food chief John Dixon. Dixon replaced Kate Bostock
as head of the general merchandise unit in October, while former
Debenhams Plc CEO Belinda Earl was brought in as style director.  Buying Time  The products the new team have influenced won’t start to be
seen in stores until July because of the length of design,
supply and ordering times, the CEO has said.  “He bought himself time” with the management reshuffle
and new hires, said Calvert. Still, the analyst said investors
aren’t “going to be that patient beyond autumn/winter.”  Bolland opted out of the discount-driven market and offered
fewer promotions over Christmas, protecting margins though
weighing on sales. The strategy won support from some investors.  “They’ve taken a stance not to chase sales at the expense
of profitability and we would support not just pursuing top line
growth at all costs,” said Richard Marwood, a senior  fund
manager  at Axa Investment Management in London, which is Marks &
Spencer’s fourth-biggest shareholder. Still, Bolland’s
performance “has not been fantastic,” Marwood said.  The CEO said promotional sales in the Christmas quarter
were down 7 percent compared with a year earlier.  “What the new team has done is manage it very
appropriately to protect our margin,” though the product was
bought six-to-nine months ago, before they started, he said.  Growing clothing sales will be key to a longer-term
recovery at the retailer, which faces increasing competition in
its main market for women over the age of 40.  ‘Magic Bullet’  “Clothing is never an easy thing to find a magic bullet on
and they are still some way off finding that,” said  Tim Green ,
who holds Marks & Spencer stock as part of the more than 26
billion pounds ($42 billion) he helps manage at Brewin Dolphin
in London. “I think there is a feeling that strength of
expertise at the top is not sufficient. There is an anxiety that
John Dixon simply doesn’t have clothing credentials to cut it
against some very seasoned competitors.”  Marks & Spencer products are “buried in a sea of
merchandise” making customers do the work to find what they
want, while the clothing is not seen “as a must have,” said
Neil Saunders, managing director of research company Conlumino.  The CEO should focus on fixing the domestic clothes offer
ahead of expanding the retailer’s overseas unit, said Green.  Bolland’s turnaround plan includes focusing on turning
Marks & Spencer into an international, multichannel retailer. He
plans to add 100 overseas outlets a year at the company, which
CVC Capital Partners Ltd. explored taking private last year,
according to people close to the matter.  Biggest Test  “I do think there’s an issue about pushing multi-
national,” Green said. “It does test credulity since they need
to get the U.K. right before they worry about international.”  Espirito Santo analyst Caroline Gulliver today cut her
 recommendation  on Marks & Spencer to sell from neutral, citing
“a high execution risk” of the changes being made.  The biggest test of Bolland’s strategy will be the success
of the new clothing ranges, said Maureen Hinton, an analyst at
 Verdict Research  in London.  “The proof is going to be when his management team
actually delivers new product in the summer and that’s going to
be critical for Bolland’s survival,” Hinton said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  