-- ABC Making Marvel TV Show About ‘Avengers’ Secret Agency
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-10T20:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/abc-rushes-marvel-s-shield-tv-series-about-avengers-agency.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC network is
developing a TV series from the company’s Marvel unit based on
the secret agency in “The Avengers” movie, said Paul Lee, head
of the network’s entertainment division.  The first episode of the tentatively named “S.H.I.E.L.D.”
is being written and directed by “Avengers” director Joss Whedon, Lee said today at a TV critics conference in Pasadena,
California. The series may be ready for the TV season that
starts in September, he said.  “We fast-tracked it and we’ll see it earlier than
others,” Lee said. “Hopefully it moves to series and we will
build a big marketing campaign around it.”  The “Avengers” movie was 2012’s biggest  box office 
success, collecting $1.51 billion in worldwide ticket sales,
according to researcher BoxOfficeMojo.com. If the TV show’s
first episode is successful, the network plans an aggressive
marketing effort targeted at fans of the film, Lee said. In
addition to the TV show, Marvel is working on a film sequel.  The show’s plot revolves around the creation of the
Strategic Homeland Intervention, Enforcement and Logistics
Division, or SHIELD, a secret agency that works with superheroes
to combat villains, according to Imdb.com, a provider of
information about movie and television content.  Clark Gregg, who played SHIELD agent Phil Coulson in the
Marvel film, is returning for the TV series, according to Imdb.  Disney rose 0.1 percent to $50.83 at 3:34 p.m. in  New York .
The Burbank, California-based company’s  stock  gained 33 percent
in 2012, compared with a 7.3 percent increase for the 30-company
 Dow Jones Industrial Average , which includes Disney.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  