-- MagicJack Sinks as Ex-CEO Rebuts Blog: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-10T23:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/magicjack-sinks-as-ex-ceo-rebuts-blog-israel-overnight.html
MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL) , the Israeli
company down 16 percent this week after a blogger said it
misstated earnings, sank to a seven-month low as former Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Borislow called the posting “lies.”  Shares of MagicJack lost 4.6 percent yesterday to $14.59 in
 New York , poised for its steepest weekly slump since November.
 Short interest  on the stock was 13 percent of shares outstanding
Jan. 8, compared with 2.7 percent for the Nasdaq Composite
Index, according to research firm Markit.  The Bloomberg Israel-
US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the largest New York-traded Israeli companies
closed little changed at 86.08.  MagicJack, which sells voice-over-Internet services,
dropped after a Jan. 8 blog post on the  Seeking Alpha  website
attributed to “Copperfield Research” said the company used
“accounting gimmicks” to boost profits and that the ex-CEO
used his common equity on margin as collateral for debt.
Borislow, who relinquished his post to Gerald Vento on Jan. 1,
said the post was “clear and utter lies,” in a phone interview
yesterday from  West Palm Beach ,  Florida .  The short positions will “weigh on the shares” until the
new CEO updates investors on MagicJack’s new strategy, Timothy Horan, a New York-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who has a
buy rating on the stock, said by phone yesterday. “If they’re
selling the product and the revenues and earnings are coming in,
the shorts will have to cover.”  ‘Public Sources’  The Copperfield post focused on Borislow’s actions as chief
executive officer. Borislow “has notoriously played by his own
set of public market rules” the report said. The author cited a
May 18  filing  in which Borislow said “I regrettably had to sell
shares in MagicJack for liquidity.”  In an e-mail sent to  Bloomberg News , a writer who said they
were the author of the post said that they were shorting
MagicJack, or betting on its decline. The writer asked not to be
named and said that Copperfield is based in the U.S. The Jan. 8
post was based on “information derived from public sources,”
according to the e-mail. “While there is absolutely some
opinion, speculation and analysis in our report, we have
arduously tried to delineate those sections clearly.”  MagicJack spokesman Kari Hernandez said it was the policy
of the Netanya, Israel-based company not to comment on “such a
report,” when contacted by phone yesterday.  Borislow said in yesterday’s interview that the suggestion
in the Copperfield post that he used his stock as collateral for
debt was “a complete lie.”  ‘Backward Looking’  Horan at Oppenheimer said the blog post was “backward-
looking, not forward-looking.” MagicJack’s 41 percent decline
since the end of the third quarter is due to a delay in delivery
of the company’s new WiFi device, which was scheduled to go on
sale in September, Horan said. “I feel fairly good about my
estimates as long as the new device comes out,” he said.  Borislow, who founded MagicJack, took up a new position
Jan. 1 to lead new marketing and product development, according
to a Dec. 28 filing.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest
generic drugmaker, rose for a sixth day in New York after
stepping up efforts to block a competing medicine by  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB)  from entering the market. Teva Shares traded in New York
rose 1.1 percent to $38.78, after its stock in  Israel  closed 1.1
percent higher at 145.5 shekels, or $38.83.  Perion Networks Ltd. (PERI)  advanced for a fifth day adding, 3.3
percent to $12.31 as  Roth Capital Partners  raised its 12-month
price target to $18 from $15, citing expanding use of its
Internet applications. Perion shares in  Tel Aviv  jumped 8.1
percent to 45.8 shekels, or $12.2.  Sales in 2013 are expected to exceed $110 million, Perion
said in a statement Jan. 8, beating the $102 million average of
two analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Fourth-quarter
revenue will reach $21 million, the company said, compared with
an $18.1 million estimate.  Israel’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  rose 1.1 percent this week to
1,224.11, the highest level since Dec. 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  