-- AIMA Plans China Chapter as Country Allows Hedge Funds
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-10T01:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/aima-plans-china-chapter-as-country-allows-hedge-funds.html
The  Alternative Investment
Management Association , the global industry advocacy group,
plans to start a  China  chapter this year as the country opens up
to hedge funds previously shunned as speculators.  Work on the China chapter began in the third quarter and
AIMA hopes to put together applications for the various entities
in China by the end of the first quarter, Philip Tye, chairman
of the London-based group’s Hong Kong National Group, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  China plans to start regulating private funds under
proposed revisions to the securities funds law, paving the way
for development of a local hedge fund industry, Beijing-based
Economic Information newspaper  reported  Jan. 4. The industry is
also awaiting  Shanghai ’s approval of the first batch of
international hedge funds to raise  yuan  capital in the city for
overseas investments, according to Ye Xiaowei, co-managing
partner of the Beijing office of law firm Bingham McCutchen LLP.  “It really is a time that AIMA needs to get a presence in
China,” Tye said, declining to comment on the Shanghai pilot
program known as Qualified Domestic Limited Partners, or QDLP.
“There isn’t an official hedge fund industry, but we think one
will start to be developed.”  The new chapter may have offices in Beijing and Shanghai,
advocating for the industry with regulators and organizing local
educational events, Tye said, adding that plans are still being
firmed up.  First Members  The project is being led from Hong Kong by Florence Yip,
Asia-Pacific asset management tax leader at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who is also vice chairman of AIMA’s
Hong Kong chapter.  A group called Friends of AIMA in China was set up to work
on the structure and membership criteria of the China chapter,
Tye said. The group’s members, including representatives from
service providers and fund managers, will be the founding
members of the China chapter, Tye said.  The  Hedge Fund Association , a Florida-based trade and
lobbying group set up in 1996 with members among hedge funds,
their investors and service providers mainly in the Americas,
last year set up a China chapter in Beijing and a Shanghai
chapter, said Di Yiming, its Shanghai chapter director.  AIMA’s Hong Kong chapter is its largest outside of  London 
with 170 corporate members, including four based in China, Tye
said. The Hong Kong chapter has for years had a China committee.  Once the China chapter is established, the China committee
in Hong Kong will shift its focus to local and Chinese managers
operating in the city. The China chapter will concentrate on
industry professionals located in mainland China, Tye added.  AIMA has 1,300 members globally, including managers of
hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, prime brokers, legal and
accounting firms, other investors, fund administrators and
independent fund directors, according to its Website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  