-- Halla to Buy Visteon’s Auto Climate Units in China, India
-- B y   R o s e   K i m   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-01-11T21:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/halla-to-buy-visteon-s-auto-climate-units-in-china-india.html
Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  agreed
to buy  Visteon Corp. (VC) ’s automotive climate units, consolidating
Visteon’s businesses within Halla, a South Korean supplier of
which the U.S. company owns 70 percent.  Visteon said in September it planned to sell its climate
business to Halla Climate Control for cash, creating the Halla
Visteon Climate Control Corp., which will be the second-largest
maker of heating and air conditioning systems for automobiles.
Visteon said today the price was $410 million (436 billion won).  Halla Climate, the Daejeon, South Korea-based maker of car
air-control systems, will purchase Visteon’s climate businesses
in countries including  China ,  India  and Japan. Tim Leuliette,
Visteon’s chief executive officer, has said combining the
operations will make the new company “predator, not prey” in
the industry.  “This is a good strategic move for Halla,” Kim Yoon Ki, a
Seoul-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co., said in a
telephone interview. “The merger will create a synergy effect
which will lead to cost reduction, and lure new customers.”  Visteon, based in  Van Buren Township ,  Michigan , said the
transaction should be completed this quarter. The combined
business will have operations in 17 countries, including 32
factories, five global technical centers and seven regional
customer centers.  Visteon rose 1.1 percent to $54.77 at the close in  New
York .  Visteon Changes  Customers have wanted the businesses of Visteon and Halla
Climate put together for more than a decade, and the transaction
won’t be subject to a shareholder vote, Leuliette said at an
investor conference in Boston in September.  Leuliette was named CEO on Oct. 1 after serving as interim
chief following the ouster of Don Stebbins Aug. 10. The new
chief was part of a bloc of Visteon directors who favored
revamping the company, which hasn’t been able to generate
consistent profits under three CEOs before Leuliette. Visteon
surged 40 percent from Aug. 10 through yesterday.  Visteon failed in July to buy the remaining 30 percent of
Halla Climate after South Korea’s National Pension Service,
which owns 8.1 percent, rejected its bid. The auto-parts
supplier, spun off from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in 2000, has tried to
shed lower-margin units to focus on faster-growing Asian
operations.  Halla Climate’s latest announcement clouds Halla Group
Chairman Chung Mong Won’s ambitions to rebuild the group, which
sold units after going bankrupt in 1997.  Mando Corp. (060980) , the
group’s biggest unit, said in August it may offer to buy
Visteon’s 70 percent stake in Halla Climate.  “For Mando, this means its target has become bigger and
pricier,” said Mirae’s Kim.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  