-- Allied World Joins Attanasio’s Crescent in Junk Debt Bet
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-11T14:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/allied-world-takes-crescent-capital-stake-in-junk-debt-wager.html
Allied World Assurance Company
Holdings AG (AWH)  is joining Crescent Capital Group LP, the investment
manager co-founded by Milwaukee Brewers owner  Mark Attanasio , in
a bet on junk-rated debt.  Allied World, the insurer and reinsurer started by firms
including  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , will take a
minority stake in Crescent, according to a statement issued
yesterday. Crescent, based in  Los Angeles , will manage $500
million of the Zug, Switzerland-based insurer’s portfolio.  John Gauthier, a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive
who is president of Allied World Financial Services, has turned
to outside firms to help oversee a portfolio of $8.2 billion.
Allied World said last year that it would take a stake in
MatlinPatterson and invest $500 million with the firm.  “We believe these deals will help Allied World manage our
expenses, optimize our investments returns, and over time,
provide earnings,” Gauthier said in the statement. “The
Crescent transaction, with its diverse credit strategies, will
complement our previously announced transactions.”  Crescent specializes in debt rated below investment grade
and manages more than $11 billion in assets, according to the
statement. Dollar-denominated, high-yield corporate bonds beat
higher rated debt last year, gaining about 16 percent, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Index data.  Allied World will invest in  asset  classes including
mezzanine debt, collateralized loans, direct loans, bank loans,
and high-yield bonds, Gauthier said in an interview. The insurer
expects to achieve a net internal rate of return on mezzanine
debt of 14 percent to 15 percent, he said.  Fee Breaks  “They’ve got a lot of strategies, so we can allocate a big
headline number of $500 million, but actually have it be
reasonably well diversified across various strategies,”
Gauthier said by phone yesterday. “When you commit $500
million, you get some reasonable fee breaks.”  Allied World has gained 28 percent in the past 12 months.
The shares slipped 0.2 percent to $81.57 at 9:52 a.m. in New
York.  Gauthier declined to provide the size of Allied’s stake in
Crescent. Attanasio’s Brewers finished with 83 wins and 79
losses in last year’s Major League Baseball season.  “We are confident our partnership with Allied World will
enhance our ability to serve the growing needs of investors,”
Attanasio said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  