-- Amtrak Loss Narrows as Railroad Plans Wi-Fi Upgrade
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-01-10T15:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/amtrak-loss-narrows-as-railroad-plans-wi-fi-upgrade.html
Amtrak , the U.S. long-distance
passenger railroad supported by taxpayers, narrowed its loss
last year to $361 million, the smallest in 38 years.  While the railroad, based in Washington, needs to improve
its infrastructure and operations, Chief Executive Officer
Joseph Boardman said today on a conference call with reporters
that he’s pleased with the results for the year ended Sept. 30.  The cash operating loss decreased 19 percent from the
previous year and was the lowest since 1975,  Steve Kulm , an
 Amtrak  spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Amtrak had a net loss of $1.34 billion in the 2011 fiscal
year. The railroad, created in 1971 to take over money-losing
passenger operations from freight carriers, has never made an
annual profit. Its taxpayer subsidies -- about $1.4 billion last
fiscal year for capital expenses and some operations -- have
been criticized by some congressional Republicans.  Boardman announced the 2012 results today on a call that
was about the railroad’s plans for capital projects and service
improvements this year. Amtrak hasn’t released its fiscal 2012
financial statements yet.  The railroad plans to upgrade its wireless  Internet
service , or Wi-Fi, to faster 4G technology on its trains
beginning with the Acela Express between Washington and  Boston ,
Boardman said. He said he doesn’t know when the faster Internet
connection will be available.  “If it’s in testing, it ought to be pretty darn soon,” he
said.  Locomotive Orders  Amtrak plans to take delivery this year of the first part
of previous orders for 70 electric locomotives and 130 single-
level passenger cars, it said today in an e-mailed statement.  The railroad announced last month that this year it will
seek bids to replace its 12-year-old fleet of 20 Acela trains.
It wants to first expand the number of high-speed trains to
increase service and capacity.  The Acela service carried about 3.4 million passengers and
produced about a fourth of Amtrak’s $2 billion in ticket revenue
for the year ended Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  