-- Andy Murray Finds Swagger, Calm After U.S. Open Triumph
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2013-01-11T06:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/andy-murray-finds-swagger-calm-after-u-s-open-triumph.html
Andy Murray  enters the Australian
Open with confidence and a swagger after finally winning his
first Grand Slam tennis singles championship.  Murray had a breakthrough 2012 after hiring eight-time
major champion  Ivan Lendl  as his coach, securing an Olympic gold
medal and beating Novak Djokovic of  Serbia  to win the  U.S. Open .
The victory -- following four defeats in Grand Slam finals --has
firmed his conviction going into a tournament where he reached
at least the semifinals the past three years.  “I do feel more relaxed one week out from a Slam than I
have done previously, that’s for sure,” Murray told reporters
after winning his second straight title at the Brisbane
International on Jan. 6. “I hope that’s a good sign.”  His peers have noticed a change. Janko Tipsarevic, who’s
seeded eighth at the season-opening Grand Slam that starts Jan.
14 in  Melbourne , described third-ranked Murray as a “totally
different animal” at last month’s exhibition tournament in  Abu
Dhabi .  Murray’s hiring of Lendl “showed his commitment and his
strong desire to break through,” according to six-time major
singles champion  Boris Becker .  “When he did, it was a big, big stepping stone for him,”
Becker said in an interview.  The U.S. Open triumph has given Murray “a bit more swagger
on the court,” said  Darren Cahill , a former Australian tennis
pro who used to coach Murray as part of an arrangement with one
of the player’s sponsors.  Lendl has also helped Murray improve technically, Cahill
said on a Jan. 8 conference call.  Forehand Weight  “There’s no question that he’s trying to get more weight
behind that forehand side of Andy,” Cahill said. Lendl also got
Murray to add more variety to his second serve, he added.  Lendl’s biggest influence is on the mental side, 18-time
Grand Slam singles champion  Chris Evert  said on the same call.  “Ivan Lendl was the perfect, perfect fit for Andy Murray
because Andy Murray’s attitude and demeanor on the court has
completely changed,” Evert said. “Temperament-wise he’s really
helped him. He’s just playing so much better.”  With eleven-time major winner  Rafael Nadal  missing because
of injury and illness and  Roger Federer  yet to hit a competitive
ball this year, Djokovic and Murray are favored to win the title
at Melbourne Park.  Top-ranked Djokovic is the 6-5 favorite to win his third
straight Australian Open, according to U.K. bookmaker  William
Hill Plc (WMH) , meaning a successful $5 bet returns $11. Murray is the
9-4 second favorite ahead of  Switzerland ’s Federer on 4-1.  Long Rivalry  Djokovic and Murray, a pair of 25-year-olds separated in
age by a week, began their rivalry at age 13. They met in the
2011 Australian Open final, when Djokovic claimed the first of
his three Grand Slam titles that season. The Serb won their
five-set semifinal in Melbourne 12 months ago.  Today’s draw placed Murray and Federer in the same half,
meaning the earliest either can face Djokovic is the final.  After the four majors went to different men in 2012, Murray
and Djokovic are best-placed to dominate this year, six-time
Grand Slam semifinalist Tim Henman said.  “They really are the two standouts,” Britain’s Henman
said in an interview. “Djokovic being No. 1 again, and Murray
now ready to take his game to an even higher level.”  Cahill said although it would be foolish to discount
Federer, 31, and Nadal of  Spain , 2013 may help shape the future
of the men’s game.  ‘Unknown Territory’  “We might get an insight into how the game’s going to look
for the next five or six years from the results,” Cahill said.
“We’re in unknown territory for the next 12 months for many,
many reasons.”  Nadal, 26, missed the second half of 2012 with a patella
tendon injury similar to the one Cahill said ended his own
playing career at 25. French Open champion Nadal, ranked No. 4
on the ATP World Tour, pulled out of the Australian Open last
month citing a stomach virus that stalled his rehabilitation.  Second-ranked Federer, who won a record-extending 17th
Grand Slam singles title at Wimbledon in July, didn’t play
before the tournament as part of a streamlined schedule. Evert
said Federer’s effort at Wimbledon may have drained him.  “It’s difficult to find new motivation in his case because
he’s won everything,” Becker said of Federer. “Djokovic and
Murray have the edge right now.”  On the women’s side, American  Serena Williams , ranked No. 3
in the world, is the even-money favorite to win her 16th major
championship, 14 years after claiming her first. Top-ranked
Victoria Azarenka is a 7-2 shot to defend her title, although a
toe injury forced the Belorussian out of a tune-up tournament.  Like Murray, Williams warmed up for Melbourne with a title
in Brisbane. That extended the 31-year-old’s record to 35-1
since an upset loss in the first round of the 2012 French Open.  “When she’s on, she’s dominant and unbeatable,” Evert
said of Williams. “I don’t know if anybody can really stop her,
but you have to remember that we’re talking Grand Slams. They’ve
always provided surprises for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  