-- Manhattan Rent Hikes Slow as Apartment Tenants Push Back
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-01-10T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/manhattan-rent-hikes-slow-as-apartment-tenants-push-back.html
Manhattan apartment-rent increases
slowed for a third month in December as more tenants pushed back
against landlord price hikes by moving out.  The median monthly rent rose to $3,150, up 0.8 percent from
a year earlier, according to a report today by appraiser  Miller
Samuel Inc.  and broker  Douglas Elliman Real Estate . It was the
third consecutive month in which year-over-year rent growth
hovered around 1 percent, compared with an average of 7.4
percent for the year through September, said  Jonathan Miller ,
president of New York-based Miller Samuel.  “We’re not at this frenzied upward trajectory anymore,”
he said. “We have some more gains in front of us, but I don’t
think we’re going to see the same rapid ascent we saw over the
last year and a half.”  Record-low mortgage rates and rents that have climbed to
within 4 percent of their 2006 peak have pushed some tenants
into the sales market, while others refused steep rate increases
and moved out in search of cheaper leases, according to Miller.
New rental agreements signed in December, usually a slow period
for leasing, jumped 21 percent from a year earlier to 2,901.  “The bigger the number, the more push-back you’re getting
from tenants at the time of renewal,” Miller said. “They’re
choosing not to renew and going to a different location or
different apartment. You’re paying more rent than you were
before, but you’re probably paying less than your landlord
presented to you.”  Improving Employment  Sales of Manhattan apartments surged 29 percent in the
fourth quarter to 2,598, the highest for the period since at
least 1987, Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman said on Jan 3. The
average 30-year mortgage rate dropped to a record 3.31 percent
in November, according to McLean, Virgina-based  Freddie Mac .  Improving employment will continue to spur demand for
leasing, putting monthly rents on course to surpass the peak of
$3,265 in the second quarter, according to Miller.  New York City  added 66,200 jobs in the 12 months through
November, according to the state Labor Department. Newly hired
potential tenants will compete for housing with would-be buyers
who can’t find something to purchase in a market where listings
plunged to their lowest in 12 years.  Kate Balingit, who works in advertising sales, knew she had
to act quickly to find an apartment when she transferred to  New
York  from  Southern California . Before arriving in Manhattan one
weekend last month, she set parameters: $2,400 a month or less,
and no more than a 15-minute walk to her office in Chelsea.  Moving East  “I just wanted to find a place that would be the
antithesis of everything I did not like about  Los Angeles ,”
said Balingit, a California native. “I was really adamant about
the walking part.”  Armed with financial documents, she limited her search to
the West Village. On the second day, working with Rory Bolger of
 Citi Habitats , she was the first to arrive at an open house for
a 375-square-foot (35-square-meter), one-bedroom co-op on West
10th Street with a monthly rent of $2,350. The unit had new
appliances and was an eight-minute walk to her office.  It took only a few minutes for Balingit to decide that she
found her apartment -- and by then two other would-be tenants
had come in to view it. Her broker took the rental agent aside.  “I said, what do we have to do to get this apartment off
the market?” Bolger recalled. “If you need a check and one
month’s rent right now, I’ll be happy to get that for you.”  Personal Touch  Two days later, Balingit submitted a full application along
with cashiers checks for $9,000 in rent, deposit and broker
commissions. She also added a personal touch, sending the
building’s co-op board a letter and a photo of herself. That was
followed by a telephone interview with a board member.  “You get rewarded by being on top of your game,” said
Balingit, 27, who moved in this month. “I knew that I really,
really wanted it.”  In the  West Village , average monthly rents in the fourth
quarter ranged from $2,388 for a studio to $6,463 for a three-
bedroom unit, according to New York-based Citi Habitats, which
also released a report on the Manhattan rental market today.  Rents in the Soho and Tribeca districts were among the
city’s highest in the quarter, with studios leasing for a
monthly average of $2,336, one-bedrooms for $3,715 and two-
bedrooms for $5,976, according to Citi Habitats.  The boroughwide average rent in 2012 was $3,412, up 5
percent from the previous year, Citi Habitats data show. Rents
surpassed the 2007 peak of $3,394 in March, the brokerage said
in April.  Luxury Apartments  The vacancy rate for Manhattan  apartments  was 1.38 percent
in the fourth quarter, Citi Habitats said.  Miller Samuel  placed
the vacancy rate at 1.77 percent last month, compared with 2.04
percent in December 2011.  Leases for luxury apartments, or the top 10 percent of all
rentals by price, increased 20 percent in December from a year
earlier to 290 new agreements, Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman
said. The median monthly rent for those deals climbed 16 percent
to $7,995.  In  Brooklyn , New York’s most populous borough, rents
climbed 1.4 percent in December from a year earlier to $2,637,
Miller Samuel and Douglas Elliman said in a separate report. The
number of new leases jumped 13 percent to 234.  Brooklyn apartments spent less time on the market than
units in  Manhattan , averaging 45 days in December, a 41 percent
decline from a year earlier.  Manhattan apartments averaged 57 days on the market before
a lease was signed, up 54 percent from December 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  