-- Argentine Defaulted Bond Holders Oppose Request to Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/argentine-defaulted-bond-holders-oppose-request-to-court.html
Holders of defaulted Argentine bonds
opposed a request by holders of restructured bonds to let a New
York appeals court clarify what the equal treatment provision of
the securities contracts means.  The request to have the U.S. Court of Appeals in New York
certify the question to the state appeals court for
interpretation is “patently inappropriate,” Elliott Management
Corp.’s NML Capital Fund said yesterday in a court filing.  NML Capital last year won a decision by a federal judge in
New York that  Argentina  has to pay owners of its defaulted bonds
if it goes forward with payments to investors who traded in
defaulted bonds for restructured ones. Argentina appealed the
ruling to the federal appeals court where holders of the
exchange bonds filed a request for state court review.  “This court had ‘little difficulty’ finding a violation of
the bond agreements, and explained at length why specific
performance was appropriate,” NML Capital said in the filing.
“Movants’ attempt to use the certification device to second
guess this court’s well-reasoned decision is patently
inappropriate.”  On Oct. 26, the appeals court ruled that Argentina can’t
treat holders of its restructured debt more favorably than the
so-called “hold-out” creditors, who declined to participate in
two rounds of debt restructuring. Argentina argued last month
that the court should ask New York State’s highest court to
determine that issue under state law.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-00105, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  