-- Argentina Bondholders Lose Bid to Get State-Court Review
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/argentina-bondholders-lose-bid-to-get-state-court-review.html
Holders of Argentina’s restructured
debt were denied their request for  New York  state’s highest
court to rule on the meaning of a contract provision at the
center of litigation over the country’s defaulted bonds.  A federal appeals court in  Manhattan  yesterday declined a
request by the restructured bondholders to ask the state court
to rule on the meaning of an equal-treatment clause governing
the defaulted bonds under New York law. Such a referral, which
was opposed by Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund and
other holders of the defaulted bonds, might have delayed
resolution of the case by months.  Argentina defaulted on a record $95 billion of debt in
2001. The country then offered to let holders of the defaulted
bonds trade for new exchange bonds, at a discount of as much as
75 percent. Holders of more than 91 percent of  Argentina ’s
defaulted debt participated in the 2005 and 2010 restructurings.  On Oct. 26, the U.S. court, the Second Circuit Court of
Appeals, ruled that Argentina can’t treat holders of its
restructured debt more favorably than the so-called holdout
creditors, who declined to participate in the two rounds of debt
restructuring.  That ruling was based on New York state contract law.
Federal courts in the U.S. sometimes look to state appeals
courts to determine questions of state law that are to be
applied in federal cases.  Request Denied  A group of restructured bondholders called the “Exchange
Bondholder Group,” led by Gramercy Funds Management LLC, last
month argued that the state’s highest court, the New York Court
of Appeals, should be given the chance to consider the equal-
treatment question. The federal appeals court yesterday denied
the request in a one-sentence order.  “We presented the Second Circuit with an option to seek an
advisory opinion from New York courts on a novel issue of state
law which the court has declined to pursue,” Sean O’Shea,
counsel for the Exchange Bondholder Group, said in a statement
yesterday. “However, today’s decision does not impact the core
arguments presented by the Exchange Bondholder Group, including
the impact of the District Court’s injunction on third
parties.”  The federal appeals court, in its October decision, also
sent part of the case back to U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa,
who then ordered Argentina to make a $1.3 billion payment into
escrow, the amount claimed by the defaulted bondholders, when it
makes scheduled payments on its restructured bonds. Griesa
barred third parties, including banks, from helping Argentina
evade his orders.  Those orders, which have been put on hold while they’re
appealed, will be considered by the federal appeals court when
it hears arguments on Feb. 27.  Argentina has made all required payments on the exchange
bonds while continuing to refuse payment to the holdouts.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina,
12-105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  