-- Arizona Sheriff Sends Armed Posse Volunteers to Schools
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d
-- 2013-01-10T03:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/arizona-sheriff-sends-armed-posse-volunteers-to-schools.html
Joe Arpaio, the Arizona sheriff who
reinstituted chain gangs and challenged the legitimacy of
President  Barack Obama ’s birth certificate, has dispatched armed
volunteers to patrol around schools outside Phoenix after last
month’s mass shooting at a  Connecticut  elementary school.  School officials and parents weren’t asked if they wanted
the 500 volunteers, some with automatic and semiautomatic
weapons, who were posted to areas around 59 schools in parts of
Maricopa County under Arpaio’s jurisdiction, the sheriff said
yesterday.  “We had to do this too quickly,” Arpaio said. He said he
had no obligation to clear the plan with educators. “We are not
going into the schools. This is outside the schools; it is not
on school properties or inside the schools.”  Arpaio, who bills himself as “America’s toughest sheriff”
and was re-elected to a sixth term in November, said he acted
after the arrest last month of a 16-year-old girl in connection
with a school shooting plot in Mesa,  Arizona .  “This is a preventative program,” Arpaio, 80, said in a
telephone interview. “They will be circulating around the
schools with high visibility so that everyone, the bad guys,
will know we have armed posse members that can take action if
something happens with the kids or teachers.”  School safety and gun control have come under scrutiny
after a 20-year-old with a semiautomatic rifle killed 20
children and six adults at Sandy Hook Elementary School in
Newtown, Connecticut, Dec. 14.  Posse Volunteers  Arpaio’s volunteers, mostly members of the sheriff’s 3,000
member “ posse ,” wearing uniforms and in marked vehicles, are
patrolling in unincorporated areas of the county as well as
small communities that contract with his office for police
service. He emphasized that the volunteers are trained in the
use of firearms and law-enforcement tactics.  “These are not vigilantes off the street,” Arpaio said.  Ann Donahue, a spokeswoman for the 13-campus Litchfield
Elementary School District, said officials learned about the
plan in the newspaper and are waiting for the sheriff to answer
their request for more information.  “We are certainly happy that he wants to patrol, but we
want to be partners to determine the implementation plan,”
Donahue said, noting that not all of the district’s schools are
in Arpaio’s jurisdiction.  Critics of the sheriff questioned whether posse members are
qualified and suggested the patrols are a publicity stunt.  “Just because it happened in Newtown doesn’t mean every
school, every principal, every parent thinks this is needed at
their school,” said Randy Parraz, president of  Citizens for a
Better Arizona , a group that has led protests against the
sheriff. “He is grandstanding after a massacre of 20 children
to use it for his own benefit.”  High Profile  Parraz also criticized the use of Arpaio’s posse, which has
played a role in so-called crime suppression sweeps targeting
Latinos. The U.S.  Justice Department  filed a civil rights
lawsuit against the sheriff that accuses him and his deputies of
systematically discriminating against Latinos in arrests and in
jails.  There are “critics out there worried I’ll use this as an
excuse to lock up illegal immigrants, but that is not the
case,” Arpaio said.  The sheriff, who has held office for 20 years, established
his posse in 1993 and has used it for years to show a law
enforcement presence at area shopping malls during the holiday
season. The volunteers, many of them retirees, have also been
used in major operations, including a botched 2003 undercover
prostitution sting that resulted in no charges because the posse
members engaged in sex acts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  