-- Asian Hedge Funds Lag in Insurance Protection, Citigroup Says
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-10T00:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/asian-hedge-funds-lag-in-insurance-protection-citigroup-says.html
Asian hedge fund managers’ insurance
protection against legal claims for professional wrongdoings
lags peers in the U.S. and Europe, according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Sixty-four percent of 47 managers that run Asia-focused
funds in Hong Kong,  Shanghai ,  Singapore ,  Australia  and the U.S.
own policies including directors’ and officers’ liability, and
professional indemnity, according to a survey by Citigroup. That
compared with more than 80 percent of European  hedge funds  in a
similar survey last year by  Baronsmead Partners LLP .  Asian hedge funds are seeking better insurance protection
after the 2008 financial crisis unleashed a rush of legal claims
globally and in response to demand from their professional fund
directors and investors. Harbinger Capital Partners LLC and
Tiger Asia Management LLC were among hedge funds slapped with
regulator lawsuits for wrongful acts after 2008.  “The adoption of management liability insurance by hedge
fund managers in Asia-Pacific is being driven by an increasing
understanding of personal financial liability associated with
potential litigation,” David Stanbridge, vice president of
Citigroup’s prime finance business advisory services in the
region, said in an e-mail on Jan. 8. “Regulatory decisions
provide additional impetus for managers to consider
protection.”  Early Protection  Asian hedge-fund managers founded after 2008 on average
bought initial coverage less than five months after their
inception, according to the Citigroup survey, the first of its
kind in  Asia . That compares with 1.6 years for those that
started from 2002 to 2008 and seven years for even older
managers, the survey showed. All of the managers with assets of
more than $500 million that were polled have bought such
insurance.  Directors’ and officers’ liability protects policyholders
against alleged wrongdoings, the survey showed. Professional
indemnity helps pay for defense and damages in lawsuits for
negligence. The survey also included insurance covering employee
crimes and claims by workers for wrongful termination.  Eighty-two percent of European hedge-fund managers said
they owned professional indemnity policies, according to a June
 survey  by Baronsmead, a London-based insurance broker. About 93
percent of their directors were covered by directors’ and
officers’ liability insurance.  Tiger, Harbinger  Tiger Asia, led by New York-based Bill Hwang, last month
admitted to illegally using insider information to trade Chinese
banking stocks and agreed to criminal and civil settlements of
more than $60 million in a New Jersey court.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in June sued
Harbinger’s founder  Philip Falcone , alleging illicit conduct
that included misappropriation of client assets, market
manipulation and betraying clients. Falcone in late November
asked a federal judge to dismiss the two SEC lawsuits.  The cost of coverage and potential impact on fund
performances were top reasons for not buying insurance, followed
by lack of demand from current investors, Citigroup said.  About
60 percent of Asian hedge funds tracked by Singapore-based
Eurekahedge Pte oversee $50 million or less.  Annual  insurance premium  amounted to 11.6 basis points, or
0.12 percent, of assets under management for managers with less
than $50 million, according to the survey. The cost drops below
0.03 percent for larger managers.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore may require certain
retail licensed fund managers to buy a minimum level of
professional indemnity insurance based on the assets they
oversee, according to the Citigroup survey. Minimum professional
indemnity coverage has also been proposed as part of the
European Union Alternative Fund Managers Directive initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  