-- Australian Building Permits Rose in November on Apartments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-01-10T01:27:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/australian-home-building-permits-rose-in-november-on-apartments.html
Australian home-building  approvals 
advanced for the third time in four months in November as lower
 interest rates  encouraged plans for apartment projects.  The number of permits granted to build or renovate houses
and apartments gained 2.9 percent from October, when they fell a
revised 5.1 percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney
today. The result was in line with the median forecast for a 3
percent gain in a Bloomberg survey of 13 economists.  The  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  lowered borrowing costs five
times from November 2011 to October to buttress the economy as a
resource investment boom is predicted to peak this year.
Governor  Glenn Stevens , who reduced the overnight cash rate
target again last month to 3 percent, is trying to revive
industries including construction to rebalance economic growth
and extend a run of 21 recession-free years.  “The housing sector is healing slowly,” said  Annette Beacher , head of Asia-Pacific research for TD Securities Inc. in
Singapore. The RBA board “should be in ‘wait and see’ mode to
assess if the current mix of accommodative monetary policy and
less-contractionary fiscal policy are set to generate trend
growth,” she said.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said last month that the government is
unlikely to deliver a pledged budget surplus this fiscal year as
weaker growth and a strong local currency curb tax receipts.  Today’s report showed building approvals in November
advanced 13.2 percent from a year earlier. That compares with
economists’ forecast for an 11.6 percent rise year-over-year.  Private Houses  Approvals to build private houses fell 0.3 percent to 7,518
in November from the previous month, the report showed.
Approvals for apartments and renovations advanced 10.1 percent
to 5,552, it showed.  The local dollar, which has stayed above parity with the
U.S. currency for more than six months, its longest stretch
above that threshold on record. The so-called Aussie was little
changed after the data were released, trading at $1.0501 at
12:23 p.m. in Sydney.  The RBA board meets Feb. 5 to decide whether to change
monetary policy. Traders are pricing in a 39 percent chance
Stevens will cut the benchmark rate to a record-low 2.75
percent, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australian employers boosted payrolls more than economists
forecast in November and the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly
dropped to 5.2 percent, government data showed Dec. 6.  Australia’s economy received a boost in recent months as
the price of  iron ore , the nation’s most valuable export, surged
to a 15-month high, reflecting expectations of faster growth in
China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  