-- Australia Investors Sue Over Potential A$300 Million Loss
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-01-10T07:05:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/australia-investors-sue-over-potential-a-300-million-loss.html
A group of more than 16,000
Australian investors facing losses exceeding A$300 million ($317
million) from the insolvencies of Banksia Securities Ltd. and
Cherry Fund Ltd. sued the lenders and the trustee for the notes
in a bid to recoup their money.  Trust Co. (TRU) , a Melbourne-based wealth manager, on Oct. 25 put
Banksia in receivership in its capacity as a trustee for
debentures issued by the lender. Banksia had outstanding
commitments to debenture holders of A$663 million, according to
a Dec. 7  report  from McGrath Nicol, the receivers.  Investors in Banksia received 20 percent of the money they
were owed in the first distribution in December, with the
receivers estimating an eventual total repayment of between 50
cents and 65 cents on the dollar. Banksia and Cherry Fund failed
to conduct their business properly while Trust Co. didn’t
adequately supervise and investigate the lenders’ financial
position, the plaintiffs claimed in a Dec. 24 complaint filed in
the Supreme Court of Victoria in  Melbourne .  Trust Co. “considers this claim made against it to be
without basis,” the company said in a statement to the
Australia Securities Exchange today. Trust Co. “will continue
to act in the best interests of the debenture holders of Banksia
throughout the receivership.”  Banksia and Cherry Fund failed because of a drop in
Australian property values, difficult credit market conditions,
inadequate provisioning in the loan books and a mismatch between
the timing of debentures due for repayment and the
recoverability of borrowers’ loans, the receivers said in the
December report.  Cherry Fund owed debenture holders about A$10 million,
according to the receiver and investors should get back between
55 cents and 70 cents on the dollar.  The case is Between Laurence John Bolitho and Banksia
Securities Ltd. SCI 2012/7185. Supreme Court of Victoria
(Melbourne.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  