-- Axtel Bondholder Group Said to Reject Restructuring Offer
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2013-01-10T21:48:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/axtel-bondholder-group-said-to-reject-debt-restructuring-offer.html
Bondholders controlling 40 percent
of Axtel’s SAB dollar notes will reject the Mexican phone
company’s restructuring offer, according to a letter obtained by
 Bloomberg News  from two investors in the creditor group.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, a law firm representing
the bondholders, called the debt exchange proposal “highly
coercive” in a letter to Axtel Chairman Tomas Milmo Santos
dated yesterday and provided by the investors, who received the
letter directly from the lawyers. The first deadline for
investors to tender bonds for the restructuring is tomorrow.  Axtel, which has been struggling with record losses as it
tries to compete with billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil
SAB, offered to swap debt due 2017 and 2019 for new notes due
2020 and cash in a restructuring that BCP Securities valued at
54 cents on the dollar. The company is in the process of selling
tower assets to  American Tower Corp. (AMT)  for $250 million in a
transaction subject to the success of the debt exchange.  Richard Cooper, an attorney with Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton, declined to comment on the letter in an e-mail, citing
company policy. Axtel’s investor relations chief, Adrian de los
Santos, and press official Julio Salinas didn’t respond to e-
mails and calls seeking comment.  Bonds issued by Axtel due 2019 have rallied to 53.77 cents
on the dollar from 49.18 cents on Dec. 26, the day the company
announced the debt-swap proposal, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the securities fell 2.16 percentage
points to 22.77 percent.  The creditors represented by Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton are asking the company to extend the early tender date
and initiate negotiations, according to the letter.  “The offer is unfair,” the  law firm  wrote in the letter.
“Holders of the notes are being asked to make considerable
sacrifices while the shareholders of the company will remain
largely unaffected.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  