-- Bank of England Maintains Stimulus as Credit Plan Shows Results
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-10T12:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bank-of-england-maintains-stimulus-as-credit-plan-shows-results.html
Bank of England  policy makers
refrained from adding further stimulus to the U.K. economy today
after their new credit-boosting program showed signs of success.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor
 Mervyn King  kept the target for quantitative easing at 375
billion pounds ($602 billion), in line with the forecast of all
39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They also held the  key
interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent.  While the bank’s five-month-old Funding for Lending Scheme
is starting to loosen credit conditions, the economy remains at
risk of succumbing to a renewed recession. That’s left policy
makers weighing signs of strength against threats from the euro
crisis and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s austerity drive, the
deepest since World War II.  “Most members of the committee are probably pretty happy
to keep things as they are and see how the FLS evolves and how
the economy picks up,” said  Vicky Redwood , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London and a former central bank
official. “There’s a possibility of more QE. If in a few
months’ time it looks like output is stagnating, growth concerns
will come to the fore.”  The  European Central Bank  in  Frankfurt  will also keep its
 benchmark rate  at 0.75 percent today, according to the median
estimate of economists.  Carney’s Future  The Bank of England will publish the minutes of the MPC’s
meeting on Jan. 23. In December, eight of the nine members voted
to keep QE unchanged, with  David Miles  pushing for a 25 billion-
pound increase.  The U.K. recovery’s struggle to gain traction may justify
further stimulus later this year, according to  Kevin Daly , an
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London. That may be an
issue for Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who is set to
succeed King at the helm of the U.K. central bank from July.  Additional stimulus is “more likely” to focus on credit-
easing measures than bond purchases, Daly said in a note
yesterday. “But it could also extend to more radical options,
including the greater use of policy guidance -- a possibility
raised by Carney -- and the direct purchase of bank debt,” he
said.  At this month’s meeting, U.K. policy makers digested mixed
economic data with the fact that  inflation  remains above their 2
percent target. They will also have had to assess the state of
the global recovery after U.S. lawmakers reached a deal to avert
the so-called fiscal cliff and euro-area debt tensions subsided.  The  FTSE-100 Index (UKX)  rose 0.1 percent today after closing
yesterday at the highest since May 2008.  Credit Conditions  The Bank of England’s Credit Conditions survey last week
showed that the availability of mortgages rose “significantly”
in the fourth quarter and demand also increased. While there was
also an improvement in corporate lending conditions, this was
more pronounced for large firms than for small ones.  A  manufacturing index  surged to a 15-month high in
December, according to another report. Still,  services  shrank
for the first time in two years last month, increasing the
chance the U.K. may have contracted in the fourth quarter.  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the biggest U.K. grocer, reported the strongest
sales growth since 2010 as money-off coupons and an enhanced
food offering helped spark a revival.  Next Plc (NXT) , the U.K.’s
second-largest clothing retailer, said Jan. 3 the consumer
climate will remain “subdued, but steady” this year.  Cameron said on Jan. 6 that the U.K. is in a “tough
economic environment” and the government must sustain a
“credible strategy” for the  budget deficit  to keep borrowing
costs down. The yield on the 10-year gilt was at 2.05 percent
today, up from a record-low 1.41 percent in July.  More Stimulus  With the recovery still not on a sound footing, economists
in a Bloomberg survey forecast that the BOE will resume bond
purchases at some point this year. At its meeting next month,
the MPC will have new economic forecasts prepared for its
quarterly Inflation Report, as well as the first estimate of
gross domestic product for the fourth quarter.  “The November Inflation Report suggested that the majority
of MPC members are relatively comfortable with the current
policy stance,” said Annalisa Piazza, an analyst at Newedge
Group in  London . “In our view, the recent dataflow has not
changed the fundamental picture much.”  Some policy makers may also be averse to adding to stimulus
with inflation at 2.7 percent. In the minutes of its December
meeting, the MPC noted “substantial risks” to the price
outlook, including from “continuing adverse weather” that
could disrupt harvests and push up food prices.  “Inflation is another factor that will make them reluctant
to do more QE as it’s likely to come out a little bit higher
than previously expected,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at
ABN Amro Bank NV in London. “The first quarter won’t be
something to write home about, but further out, I expect the
economy to recover very gradually, but to recover. If the BOE
has the same idea, QE is off the cards.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 Jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  