-- Banks Need Activists More Than New Rules, Mayo Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k ,   B e t t y   L i u   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-01-10T18:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/banks-need-activists-more-than-new-rules-mayo-says.html
Wall Street banks such as Morgan
Stanley will benefit more from shareholders demanding reforms
than regulators imposing new rules, CLSA Ltd.’s Mike Mayo said.  Activist investors including  Nelson Peltz ’s Trian Fund
Management LP and Dan Loeb’s  Third Point  LLC will have more
success in changing the biggest U.S. banks by holding
managements’ “feet to the fire,” Mayo said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview with Betty Liu.  Loeb’s hedge fund said yesterday it bought a stake in
Morgan Stanley, and predicted the New York-based bank’s shares
may double as brokerage margins improve and management devises a
“bold fix” for the fixed-income trading business.  State Street
Corp. (STT) , the third-largest custody bank, came under pressure from
Peltz in October 2011 to increase profitability, cut expenses
and put shareholder returns ahead of acquisitions.  “We need more Dan Loebs than we need regulators,” Mayo
said. “We need more shareholders to step up to the plate.”  Morgan Stanley (MS)  should “upgrade” its directors, with one
member of the bank’s board “familiar to us from previous
corporate governance battles we have fought against moribund
boards,” Loeb wrote in a letter to investors. He previously
pushed for an overhaul at Yahoo! Inc. and won the ouster of
Chairman  Roy Bostock , who is a Morgan Stanley director.  Morgan Stanley also needs to improve its fixed-income,
currency and commodities business this year, Third Point said.  Loeb Fan  “If we had more investors like Dan Loeb, we likely would
have had fewer of the problems of the financial crisis,” Mayo
said in a telephone interview. “This is a seminal event,” he
said. “To have this sort of high-profile activism at a
brokerage firm has been unheard-of in recent years.”  Morgan Stanley plans to reduce some risk-weighted assets,
and Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman  is cutting 1,600 jobs
from investment banking, trading and support staff, a person
with direct knowledge of the plans said yesterday.  Billionaire Peltz disclosed a 5.1 percent stake in  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ) , the biggest independent advisory firm, in June last year.
Peltz criticized the Hamilton, Bermuda-based company’s pay and
cost structure in meetings with senior executives before the
disclosure, people familiar with the matter said at the time.  Morgan Stanley advanced 3.5 percent to $20.31 as of 1:21
p.m. today in New York. The stock is up 6.2 percent this year,
more than double the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
 Betty Liu  in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  