-- Banks Mocked for $83 Billion Crash in Anglo-Irish Musical
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-01-10T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/banks-mocked-for-83-billion-crash-in-anglo-irish-musical.html
The joke’s on us in a new play about
the collapse of Anglo-Irish, the bank which effectively
bankrupted Ireland.  “Anglo: The Musical” begins a three-week run in Dublin’s
 Olympia Theatre  tonight after starting life in the city’s  Bord
Gais Theatre  in November.  Paul Howard, the show’s writer, leaves no opportunity pass
without reminding the audience that they, Irish taxpayers, are
left picking up the 64 billion euro ($83.4 billion) tab of
bailing out the banks.  The plot is set around Diarmuid and Aisling, a simple-
living couple living on the sparsely-populated fictional island
of Inis Dull, off the west coast of Ireland. It’s a microcosm of
the country before the Celtic Tiger boom created a mass of
latte-drinking, property junkies getting rich selling houses to
each other.  The couple’s world is upended as Diarmuid’s cousin, Jimmy,
is dispatched by Anglo Irish -- captured in one of the songs as
“the bank that won’t say no” -- to spread credit and good times
to the island folk.  “The people of Inis Dull are greatly under-borrowed,” Rich,
the notional head of Anglo Irish, tells Jimmy in a pep talk.
They are “the most debt-poor people in  Europe .”  Soon, the tiny speck of land resembles a metropolis,
complete with skyscrapers, light rail system, and a Michelin-
standard restaurant, as Anglo pumps cheap German money into the
island.  Eye Watering  Diarmuid, tired of his lot as a maker of bodhrans, an Irish
drum-like instrument, is also sucked in with an eye-watering 890
million-euro loan from Anglo to build a 40-story apartment and
shopping mall complex.  He dumps his nagging “post office saver-type” girlfriend
and takes a voluptuous estate agent, Collagen, as his lover.  Collagen is played by a life-sized puppet and features in
possibly the best moment of the evening. Diarmuid’s thrusts of
passion are punctuated by a recital of property-boom buzzwords:
“oil-fire central heating,” “built-in vacuum plugs,” and
“convenient to the M50,” referring to a highway circling Dublin,
and code word for nowhere near the city.  They have barely sold 10 apartments off the plans before
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and Ireland’s real-estate market
implode, forcing the government into propping up its banks.
Diarmuid is left broke.  Friendly Zero  The tunes include “Put a Zero on the End, He’s a Friend,” a
nod to Anglo Irish’s infamous banking style.  At one point, a puppet representing German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  marches on stage, pulling Irish Prime Minister
Enda Kenny at the end of a lead. When asked who’ll pay for the
mess, she points to the audience and says: “Why, zeeze nice
people, of course.”  Masochists in the theater may laugh guiltily, though some
of the humor is heavy-handed and cliched. The accented German
berating others for their foolishness has been done to death
over the past three years.  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech,  Lance Esplund  on art and  Catherine Hickley 
on film.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 