-- Basel III Punishes Dutch Over Risk That Isn’t: Mortgages
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-01-11T09:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/basel-iii-punishes-dutch-over-risk-that-isn-t-mortgages.html
Investors in 262 billion euros ($347
billion) of Dutch residential mortgage-backed securities risk
being penalized by new bank liquidity rules, even as the
securities prove among the safest home-loan bonds globally.  The notes won’t be categorized as liquid assets under
regulations approved last week by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  because the underlying mortgages have an average
loan-to-value ratio of 95 percent, a quirk of the Dutch housing
finance system, where  borrowers  take on more debt because they
can use  tax deductions  in place since the 19th century. The
rules only allow banks to apply securities where the ratio is
less than 80 percent, according to committee  documents .  Excluding Dutch bonds, in which defaults are close to zero,
shows the flaws in trying to apply global standards for banks
after more than 27 nations spent four years crafting regulations
to prevent a repeat of the 2008 global financial crisis. While
lenders won concessions such as a delay in meeting requirements
and an expanded list of eligible assets, including equities and
riskier corporate bonds, Dutch issuers could face higher funding
costs as investors demand larger premiums to hold the debt,
according to Union Investment GmnH fund managers.  “It’s a problematic situation because we have always
stated LTV is not a good proxy for determining credit risk,”
said Dipesh Mehta, a London-based securitization analyst at
Barclays Plc. “I’m even more skeptical in this case because
Dutch RMBS is one of the best performing sectors and it’s being
put at a disadvantage.”  Regulators Struggled  Regulators struggled throughout 2012 to revise the rules
until central bank chiefs agreed on a range of assets that banks
can hold to meet a so-called liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR.
That measure, a key component of a package of capital and
liquidity measures, known as Basel III, means banks must have
enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day credit squeeze.  The LCR ratio has two categories of assets. Level one
comprises cash and bonds issued by governments, central banks
and multilateral agencies. Level two includes highly-rated
covered bonds and corporate bonds as well as residential
mortgage-backed securities, although there are strict limits on
their use.  Mortgage-backed securities included in the calculation
should be widely traded in  repurchase  agreement transactions and
have a track record of price resilience under stressed
situations, according to the document. The securities will also
face a discount, or haircut, of 25 percent, and the notes must
have a minimum rating of AA, the third-highest investment grade.  This could include bond deals tied to U.K prime mortgages,
where performance has been as good as with Dutch mortgages.  Clearer Criteria  “It seems a pity that the Basel committee hasn’t set out
clearer criteria for the residential mortgage-backed securities
that can count towards the” liquidity coverage ratio, said
 Patricia Jackson , head of prudential advisory at Ernst & Young
LLP in  London . “The Basel criteria could have covered number of
tranches, information disclosure and how loans have been
originated.”  U.S. government-backed mortgage securities receive more
preferential treatment with debt-guaranteed by U.S.-owned Ginnie
Mae counting the same as Treasuries, which carry no discounts.
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac securities also can be fully counted
up to a cap.  U.S. deals not backed by the government, the type of debt
blamed for fueling the financial crisis, may be included,
although a provision stating the loans needs to be full recourse
will hinder this.  “While we welcome the inclusion of highly rated RMBS-
backed securities rated AA or higher as an extremely positive
development” for U.S. private label RMBS, there are a few
conditions that will make it difficult to meet, Credit Suisse
Group AG analysts led by Chandrajit Bhattacharya wrote in a Jan.
10 report.  Tax Relief  Dutch transactions could be excluded as lenders in the
country offer higher loan-to-value ratios because homebuyers can
claim tax relief on interest payments for 30 years. Deductions
have existed in the country since at least 1893.  Banks in the Netherlands are the largest issuers of
residential mortgage-backed securities in  Europe  after British
rivals, which have 275 billion euros of the notes, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. data.  Cumulative defaults on Dutch home loans packaged into
securitizations reached 0.4 percent at the end of September,
according to Moody’s Investors Service data. That is similar to
the 0.30 percent on U.K. prime mortgages, and compares with 2.85
percent on Spanish mortgages where the average loan to value
ratio is less than the 80 percent limit.  “I really wonder who made this list, and where the LTV cap
came from,” said Frank Erik Meijer, head of asset-backed
securities at The Hague-based Aegon Asset Management, which
oversees 220 billion euros of assets. “LTV is already taken
into account by the rating, so a AAA from a Dutch RMBS should be
as safe as a AAA UK prime RMBS transaction, hence, as liquid.”  Investors Demand  Investors currently demand 103 basis points above the euro
interbank offered rate, or euribor, to hold a five year senior
bond backed by Dutch home loans, the lowest spread on a European
bond of that kind after the U.K. The spread on senior Dutch RMBS
has narrowed from as high as 425 basis points in Jan 2009, which
is also the highest level reached by the U.K. comparable
securities, JPMorgan data show.  Banks account for about 45 percent of the investor base in
Dutch mortgage-backed securities transactions, said Max Bronzwaer, the Heerlen-based treasurer at Rabobank Groep’s
mortgage unit Obvion NV, which issues the securities under its
Storm and Strong issuance programs.  Funding Gap  “We will be discussing with regulators and policy makers
to get appropriate consideration for Dutch RMBS,” said
Bronzwaer, which has been arranging securitization transactions
for Obvion during the last 10 years. If the wording is not
changed, “it would become for banks inefficient to buy Dutch
RMBS, which ultimately would mean less demand and less funding
opportunities for us in the Netherlands, which is quite an
important issue because we have a funding gap of about 300
billion euros.” A funding gap is the portion of the loans that
can’t be financed with deposits so lenders issue debt.  Defaults on Dutch mortgage-backed securities remain at low
levels even as the  unemployment rate  rose to seven percent in
November, the highest in at least 12 years.  House prices , which
declined more than 15 percent since its peak in 2008, will
continue to decline by up to 25 percent by mid-2014, according
to Fitch Ratings estimates.  Prices Weaken  House prices may weaken because of changes to the tax
regime that could limit the deductions for borrowers, in
addition to deteriorations in the economy, the ratings company
said in a Dec. 17 report. As of January 2013, tax deductions are
restricted to mortgages with durations of 30 years or less, and
to those being amortized on at least annuity basis, according to
a Dec. 13 prospectus of a  Delta Lloyd ’s mortgage-backed
securities deal issued under its Arena program.  “Spreads for Dutch RMBS are already higher than the U.K,
so combined with the new law in the Netherlands it’s a
disadvantage for Dutch banks,” said Alexander Fagenzer, a
 Frankfurt  based  fund manager  at Union Investment, which manages
179 billion euros of assets, including Dutch mortgage
securitizations. “If finally confirmed that wording it can
prompt investors to demand a premium spread.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  