-- Baseball to Begin In-Season Human Growth Hormone Blood Tests
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-01-10T20:25:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/baseball-to-begin-in-season-blood-tests-for-human-growth-hormone.html
Major League Baseball  and its
players’ union agreed on random, in-season blood testing for
human growth hormone in an expansion of the sport’s antidrug
program.  The package also will add procedures to detect improper
testosterone use by players, MLB and the union said in a joint
news release.  The announcement bolsters baseball’s position as having the
strictest drug rules of the four major U.S. professional
leagues. It also comes a day after  Barry Bonds  and  Roger Clemens , the two most decorated players in baseball history,
were snubbed for the sport’s Hall of Fame because of ties to
performance-enhancing drugs.  “I am proud that our system allows us to adapt to the many
evolving issues associated with the science and technology of
drug testing,” baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  said in a
statement. “We will continue to do everything we can to
maintain a leadership stature in antidoping efforts in the years
ahead.”  Michael Weiner , executive director of the MLB Players
Association, said in November that stricter drug rules probably
would be announced before the 2013 season.  “Players want a program that is tough, scientifically
accurate, backed by the latest proven scientific methods, and
fair,” Weiner said in a statement today. “I believe these
changes firmly support the players’ desires while protecting
their legal rights.”  Lab Work  The sport has authorized the  World Anti-Doping Agency ’s
Montreal laboratory to establish a program to track players’
baseline testosterone/epitestosterone ratios, which will help
detect when impermissible testosterone or other substances are
being used.  Testosterone is a naturally occurring strength builder, and
use of artificial or injected versions of the substance have
been found in cases involving 2011 National League Most Valuable
Player  Ryan Braun , All-Star outfielder Melky Cabrera and pitcher
Bartolo Colon.  HGH is considered a performance-enhancing drug because of
its ability to grow muscle and aid recovery after training. It’s
not detectable in urine, unlike anabolic steroids.  Tests for HGH in the major leagues have been limited to the
offseason and spring training. Minor-league players have been
tested since 2010, and former New York Mets first baseman Mike
Jacobs became the first minor-leaguer to fail an HGH test, in
August 2011. Neither the  National Football League , the  National
Basketball Association  nor the National Hockey League test for
HGH.  Same Penalties  Penalties for drug use weren’t changed. Players are given a
50-game suspension for a first positive test, 100 games for a
second positive and a lifetime ban from the game for a third
infraction.  Today’s announcement comes more than five years after
former U.S. Senator  George Mitchell  issued a report following a
21-month investigation into the use of performance-enhancing
drugs in baseball.  Among Mitchell’s findings was that New York Yankees pitcher
 Andy Pettitte  received HGH injections in 2002 while recovering
from an elbow injury. Pettitte verified the claims two days
later.  Congressional Testimony  Pettitte told a U.S. congressional committee in December
2007 that he and Clemens, a 354-game winner with a record seven
Cy Young Awards as his league’s best pitcher, both used HGH, a
claim Clemens denied. Clemens, whose name was mentioned 82 times
in Mitchell’s report, in June 2012 was acquitted of lying to
Congress about performance-enhancing drug use.  He and Bonds, a record seven-time National League Most
Valuable Player who was convicted in April 2010 by a federal
jury in San Francisco of obstructing a probe of drug use by pro
athletes, both were passed over for Hall induction, each getting
less than half the vote percentage needed.  The Baseball Writers’ Association of America voted not to
enshrine any major-leaguers this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  