-- Bats Says System Errors Cause Pricing Problems
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-01-10T16:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bats-says-system-errors-caused-pricing-problems-over-4-years-1-.html
Bats Global Markets Inc., the third-
largest U.S. stock exchange operator, said its computers allowed
trades that violated rules intended to ensure all investors get
the best prices for equities over a period of four years.  Machines that match orders for two Bats equity exchanges
and an options venue allowed some trades to occur at prices
inferior to the best available bid or offer and enabled others
to violate rules for short sales, or bearish bets, the company
said in a  notice  published on its website yesterday. Customers
lost $420,360, because of rule violations,  Randy Williams , a
Bats spokesman, said by e-mail.  The issue allowed technical infringement of rules in the
U.S., where trading is fragmented across 13 exchanges and dozens
of other venues, aimed at preserving fairness. While losses to
any single user would have been close to undetectable and the
vast majority of Bats trades executed correctly, the disclosure
comes after a year in which breakdowns on American exchanges
sowed concern the nation’s electronic equity infrastructure is
too complex to manage.  SEC Scrutiny  “Once again, we see there’s a problem with electronic
systems, this time an exchange system,”  Larry Harris , a finance
and business economics professor at the University of  Southern
California  in  Los Angeles  and former chief economist at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, said in a phone interview.
“Bats will get a lot of scrutiny from the SEC at a time when
nobody wants that kind of attention. That said, it’s important
to recognize that Bats itself identified the problem and brought
it to public attention and to the attention of regulators.”  SEC spokesman  John Nester  declined to comment in an email.  Bats’s computers inadvertently permitted trades counter to
specific rules. One regulation involves the best nationally 
available bid and offer, a central concept aimed at ensuring 
that even as exchanges proliferate, investors who want to buy 
and sell shares can be confident they are getting the best prices.  The short-sale circuit breaker, implemented in 2011, was
intended to prevent investors from driving down share prices
when a stock had already fallen 10 percent from the previous
day’s closing level. The curb limits the price of short sales
relative to the national best bid.  Price-Sliding  Bats said some mistakes occurred with so-called price-
sliding orders that re-price trade requests based on the
movement of the national best bid or offer, under specific
circumstances involving other orders. Additional infractions
took place when orders pegged or tied to the national best bid
or offer traded through that level or executed at a price not
permitted under the short-sale rule because of the actions of
unrelated other orders.  The trades at inferior prices, called trade-throughs
because they trade through or ignore the best available bid or
offer, happened 433,000 times, an average of 410 a day from
October 2008 to January 2013 on the main Bats stock exchange,
the company said. Almost 8,000 similar incidents occurred on the
second Bats stock exchange and 617 on its options market, the
firm said.  Short-selling (SPX)  violations involved more than 3,600
incidents across its equity venues, Bats said.  Bats said it identified the trading issues in an internal
review and that none of its customers had reported it. The first
indication of the problem was on Jan. 4 and it was confirmed on
Jan. 7, according to a statement from the company.  Regulatory Tools  “It’s a miniscule amount of trades but I don’t think the
regulators have the tools to keep up with the technology that’s
out there and the sheer number of quotes and trades going on,”
Joseph Saluzzi, partner and co-head of equity trading at Themis
Trading LLC in Chatham,  New Jersey , said in a phone interview.
“Is this happening at other exchanges? Can I trust regulators
to find out? I don’t know.”  The software problem at Bats is a symptom of overly complex
market regulations that should be simplified, Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Ratterman said in a phone interview. About 250 
customers, mainly market-making firms, and 0.004 percent of trades
on Bats’s two equity exchanges were affected by the problem 
that dates back to 2008, Ratterman said. About 0.0009 percent 
of options trades were affected, he said.  Self Regulatory  The Bats announcement comes amid a securities industry
debate about benefits afforded to exchanges in their role as
self-regulatory organizations. According to its rules, Bats’s
aggregate liability to its customers is limited to $500,000 per
calendar month when the exchange makes a mistake in the normal
course of business.  Participants may only seek compensation “for losses
resulting directly from the malfunction of the exchange’s
physical equipment, devices and/or programming or the negligent
acts or omissions of its employees,” according to a statement
from the company’s website.  “We will explore with the SEC the extent to which we can
provide compensation retroactively regarding this issue,”
Williams said by e-mail.  The pricing issues at Bats follow the company’s withdrawal
of its own initial public offering after a technology glitch in
March and the Nasdaq Stock Market’s botched IPO of Facebook Inc.
in May, events that undercut investor confidence that exchanges
are in command of their technology systems.  Better Trading  Bats, whose name stands for Better Alternative Trading
System, rose to prominence in tandem with the proliferation of
electronic firms that now dominate the buying and selling of
equities in the U.S. The six-year-old equity exchange canceled
its IPO on March 23 after errors on its own computer systems
kept its stock from trading.  Nasdaq mishandled  Facebook’s (FB)  IPO on May 18 when an auction
to set the first traded price for the shares failed. The
exchange’s systems were overwhelmed by order updates and
cancellations before the stock began trading, causing the market
operator to make technology changes that prevented confirmations
of orders and trades from being disseminated for hours, and
leading to confusion among investors, brokers and market makers.  Nasdaq OMX plans to reimburse its members up to $62 million
for losses related to the  Facebook IPO , the New York-based
company said July 20. The cap on Nasdaq Stock Market’s liability
stemming from specific technology errors and malfunctions it
causes is $3 million, according to the exchange’s rules, and the
higher payout is voluntary. Exchanges have immunity from losses
related to activity they undertake as part of their duties as
SEC-registered self-regulatory organizations.  Legislation that created the SEC in 1934 also deemed the
main venues self-regulatory organizations that oversee their
member firms and trading. Critics say the Facebook mishap shows
how changes in the structure of markets have made old
regulations obsolete.  “Bats is a self-regulatory organization and they’re the
first line of defense,” said Saluzzi of Themis. “But it’s for
the SEC to come in and say maybe some of these order types
shouldn’t be approved because the market is too complex.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  