-- Bats CEO Says Trade Problems a Symptom of Too-Complex Market
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2013-01-10T23:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bats-ceo-says-software-problems-a-symptom-of-too-complex-market.html
The software problem that caused
Bats Global Markets Inc. to allow trades that violated rules is
a symptom of overly complex market regulations that should be
simplified, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Ratterman said.  Bats discovered the problem, which involved almost 450,000
transactions, on Jan. 4 through routine data inspections
conducted by its operations department looking for anomalies in
trades and how the exchange handles orders, Ratterman said in a
telephone interview today. Brokers hadn’t detected it, he said.  The issue allowed technical infringement of rules aimed at
preserving fairness in the U.S., where trading is fragmented
across 13 exchanges and dozens of other venues. While losses to
any single user would have been close to undetectable and the
vast majority of Bats trades were executed correctly, the
disclosure comes after a year in which breakdowns on exchanges
sowed investor concern the nation’s electronic equity
infrastructure is too complex to manage.  “I think you could do away with a significant amount of
complexity by simplifying some of the regulatory guidelines,”
Ratterman said. “Nearly all the order types and functionality
that exists in the market are there to allow trading
participants to reflect their interest to trade and to be
compliant with the regulatory structure we all live in. If the
regulatory environment were to simplify, then the functionality
customers demand to reflect their trading interest would
simplify as well.”  250 Customers  About 250 customers, mainly market-making firms, and 0.004
percent of 12 billion trades on Bats’s two equity exchanges were
affected by the problem that dates to October 2008, Ratterman
said. About 0.0009 percent of options trades were affected, he
said.  While the revelations follow a year of high-profile
exchange mishaps including Bats’s withdrawal of its own initial
public offering in March, Ratterman doesn’t expect it to derail
plans to pursue an IPO a second time.  “We’re going to keep our IPO plans warm,” he said.
“We’re just watching the market. We’ll continue to monitor the
investor appetite for the securities sector. Coming back is
really a matter of timing.”  The Lenexa, Kansas-based company, started in 2005 by a
high-frequency trader, operates U.S. equity markets that account
for 12 percent of American share volume, compared with about 10
percent at the end of 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Best Prices  Machines that match orders for two Bats equity exchanges
and an options venue allowed some trades to occur at prices
inferior to the best nationally available bid or offer and
enabled others to violate rules for short sales, or bearish
bets, the company said in a notice published on its website.
Customers lost $420,360 because of rule violations, Randy
Williams, a Bats spokesman, said by e-mail.  The Bats problem resulted from what’s called a race
condition, Ratterman said, referring to a situation in which
computer systems are communicating with each other in real time
while new information is being processed by high-speed
computers. The mistakes involved so-called price-sliding orders
available on Bats that automatically adjust prices in response
to changes in a stock’s national best bid or offer, or NBBO. The
orders are often used by brokers and professionals to tailor the
executions they seek as the NBBO shifts.  ‘Very Rarely’  “It’s something that happened statistically very rarely,”
Ratterman said. “In a dynamic system with real-time messages
between customers and exchanges it’s not completely obvious when
you have a race condition like this. That’s why it went on for
so long and wasn’t detected by us or our customers.”  Bats has no plans to eliminate price-sliding orders,
Ratterman said. Versions of these orders have existed for years
on other exchanges including Nasdaq Stock Market. Regulation
NMS, a rule the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted in
2005 and implemented two years later, prohibits exchanges from
allowing locked markets, or instances when two venues display
the same bid and offer price. The rule exists to increase the
likelihood that someone quoting at the best price will receive
an execution.  Trading Competition  Regulation NMS aimed to spur competition for stocks listed
on the  New York  Stock Exchange and enable investors to trade
faster and with less intermediation. One of its four main
regulations was the so-called trade-through rule, which
prohibits firms from trading at prices inferior to the best bid
or offer on an equities exchange. NYSE, no longer dominant, said
last month it would sell itself to  IntercontinentalExchange
Inc. (ICE) , an Atlanta-based energy and commodities market operator.  “The price-sliding is predominantly a reaction to the
prohibition on locked markets,” Ratterman said. “It creates
complexity in everybody’s systems. We’ve been advocating for
some time we need an industry review of some elements of Reg
NMS, primarily locked markets.”  If the SEC permitted bids and offers on different exchanges
to exist at the same price, if wouldn’t be necessary to have
order types designed so customers can adjust their trade
requests as prices change, Ratterman said. A “significant
amount of complexity” would be eliminated, he said.  The SEC routinely reviews trading matters with exchanges as
part of its oversight responsibilities,  John Nester , an SEC
spokesman, said in an e-mail today.  ‘Locked Market’  “Here is a case in point where the very fact of a locked
market condition caused some complex code that didn’t operate
the way it should every single time,” Ratterman said. “When
you have Reg NMS involved and prohibitions on locked markets and
orders that are sitting on the book that have to be slid back to
show a compliant price and new orders -- you’re going to have
edge-case scenarios.”  Ratterman declined to comment on a potential regulatory
response to its errors. Exchanges, which must report likely rule
violations to the government, are required to examine their
computer systems to ensure they comply with their own and
federal rules, he said. The company said yesterday it plans to
correct the issue with short sales by about Jan. 18 and the
trade-throughs by about Jan. 25.  ‘Not Hiding’  “Anytime there’s a compliance issue, there’s a regulatory
environment and there are outcomes,” Ratterman said. “We
showed we were out of compliance. We’re not hiding behind that.
We identified an issue and the impact and remediation, and will
move forward.”  The Bats announcement comes amid a securities industry
debate about benefits afforded to exchanges in their role as
self-regulatory organizations. According to its rules, Bats’s
total liability to its customers is limited to $500,000 per
calendar month when the exchange makes a mistake in the normal
course of business.  Participants may only seek compensation “for losses
resulting directly from the malfunction of the exchange’s
physical equipment, devices and/or programming or the negligent
acts or omissions of its employees,” according to a statement
from the company’s website.  Bats plans to work with the SEC to determine whether it can
compensate members harmed by its errors, Ratterman said.  “We have to work through the rules with the SEC and see
what our flexibility is,” Ratterman said. “It’s just too early
to say what we can and can’t do. Our intention would be to make
good with our customers to the extent that we can and the SEC
gives us the latitude.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  