-- Bazaarvoice Sued by U.S. to Divest to Create Competitor
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-01-10T22:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bazaarvoice-sued-by-u-s-to-divest-to-create-competitor.html
Bazaarvoice Inc. (BV) , the software
company that  acquired  its closest rival PowerReviews Inc. last
year in a $168.2 million deal, was sued by the U.S. to require
it to divest some of its assets to create a competitor.  The U.S. Justice Department said in a complaint filed today
in federal court in San Francisco that the takeover hurt
competition in the market for Internet platforms that offer
product ratings and reviews.  “Without competitive pressure from PowerReviews,
Bazaarvoice will be able to increase prices to retailers and
manufacturers for its product ratings and reviews platform,”
Bill Baer, assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice
Department’s Antitrust Division, said in a statement.  Bazaarvoice, based in Austin,  Texas , helps companies insert
reviews and other customer-generated information on their
websites. The transaction, which closed in June, hadn’t been
reported to regulators under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
Improvements Act of 1976, the  Justice Department  said in the
statement.  “Transactions that are not reported to us are not immune
from scrutiny,” Baer said.  The Justice Department is seeking a court order to force
Bazaarvoice to divest enough assets to create a competitor that
could replace PowerReviews.  ‘Extensive Documents’  “We provided the DOJ with extensive documents, data, and
information demonstrating that our acquisition of PowerReviews
was pro-competitive and did not result in a lessening of
competition,” Matt Krebsbach, a Bazaarvoice spokesman, said in
an e-mailed statement. “We disagree with the DOJ’s decision to
ignore that evidence and we will now shift our attention to a
court of law where we expect to be fully vindicated.”  Before the transaction, PowerReviews was an aggressive
price competitor, enabling retailers and manufacturers to often
receive discounts as a result of the competition between the two
companies, the Justice Department said.  The case is U.S. v Bazaarvoice Inc., 13-cv-00133, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  California  ( San Francisco ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  