-- Beijing to Offer Electric-Car Incentives Soon, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T07:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/beijing-to-unveil-electric-car-incentives-soon-official-says.html
Beijing will match a 60,000-yuan
($9,640) central government subsidy for electric vehicles,
accelerating efforts to spur sales and reduce smog in one of the
most heavily polluted cities in  China .  The Beijing government will soon announce measures that
include the financial aid, which will be on top of the amount
offered by the central government, Chen Guiru, deputy head of
the local government arm in charge of alternative-energy-
vehicle development, said in an interview today at a conference
in Hainan, China.  China, home to 16 of the world’s most polluted cities, is
bolstering incentives for electric vehicles as deliveries fall
behind levels needed for the country to reach cumulative
deliveries of 500,000 units by 2015 and 5 million by 2020 -- as
targeted by the government. Sales aren’t catching on because of
the lack of infrastructure and as electric cars are too
expensive, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  As a further incentive, EV owners will avoid having to buy
a license plate via an auction in Beijing as required for
regular gasoline cars, Chen said.  The Beijing government also plans to help fund purchases of
plug-in hybrids, Chen said. The local government also plans to
increase its fleet of electric buses, taxis and street cleaners
to about 5,000 units over the next few months, compared with
about 3,000 now, he said.  Beijing put four subway routes into operation late last
year, bringing the number of lines in the Chinese capital to 16.
The city, with a population of more than 20 million, already
caps the number of new auto registrations and limits the use of
private vehicles on designated days based on their license plate
numbers. The government is planning to build a road-congestion
charging system, the city’s transport commission said in August.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Tian Ying in
Beijing at   ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  