-- Benmosche Says AIG Closes Door on Past by Rejecting Suit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-10T00:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/benmosche-says-aig-closes-door-on-past-by-rejecting-bailout-suit.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
said it’s taking another step to distance itself from a 2008
bailout and the public outrage that followed by rejecting a
former chief executive officer’s lawsuit over the rescue.  “What’s important for this board and for the employees of
the company is to close the door on the past and focus on the
future and continue to work with our customers,”  Robert Benmosche , CEO of the New York-based insurer, said yesterday in
a phone interview.  Former CEO Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, 87, had pressed AIG
to join a 2011 lawsuit saying the U.S. violated shareholder
rights by taking over the company to stabilize the economy.
AIG’s deliberations over the suit revived public anger, after
Benmosche, 68, had worked to restore the insurer’s reputation,
running ads to thank taxpayers for the rescue. AIG repaid the
government last year.  “It’s been tough on our employees and everybody to read
what was written about us,” Benmosche said. “Without the
support, we would have been in much worse shape today.”  David Boies , an attorney at Boies, Schiller & Flexner LLP
who represents Greenberg’s Starr International Co., said that
AIG’s decision not to let Starr sue on its behalf is contrary to
shareholders’ interests. Starr will still pursue compensation
from the government, he said in an e-mailed statement.  AIG’s board voted unanimously to reject Greenberg’s case
after hearing arguments from Starr, the Treasury Department, and
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  at a meeting yesterday,
Benmosche said. The insurer said it plans to file a statement
with the court explaining the decision.  Board’s Deliberations  Board members reviewed briefs in December, last week and
again for about three hours on Jan. 8, Benmosche said. The CEO
said he personally told Greenberg of the decision.  Joining the suit “just didn’t make sense, considering what
the probabilities of success would be, and the facts around the
case,” Benmosche said. “We just don’t think this should
continue and AIG should not join it. And nor should it be done
in AIG’s name.”  Lawmakers including Senators  Elizabeth Warren  and  Robert Menendez  and Representative  Elijah Cummings  had said AIG should
avoid the suit, a position also taken by editorials in the New
York Times and  USA Today .  “I’m pleased to hear that after receiving the largest
bailout by the government to a private company in United States
history, AIG has decided not to sue the taxpayers who provided
it,” Cummings, a Maryland Democrat, said yesterday.  ‘Move Forward’  Timothy Massad, assistant secretary for financial stability
at the Treasury Department, said in an e-mailed statement that
the decision is “consistent with AIG’s determination to rebuild
the company, repay taxpayers, and move forward.”  AIG received a bailout in the 2008 financial crisis that
swelled to $182.3 billion after it fell short of money to pay
clients who bought protection against losses on securities
linked to home loans. The U.S. recouped bailout costs in part by
selling a 92 percent stake acquired in the rescue. AIG faced
criticism during the financial crisis for paying bonuses after
accepting taxpayer funds.  AIG’s decision may prompt a clash with Greenberg, who led
the firm for almost four decades before he was forced out in
2005. Greenberg’s suit says the U.S. takeover of AIG was a
violation of the constitutional rights of shareholders to due
process and equal protection of the law.  “Whether or not the AIG board will be successful in
blocking Starr’s efforts to recover damages for their
shareholders” will be decided by the court, Boies said.  Former Chief  Greenberg and AIG agreed in November 2009 to settle suits
stemming from his departure. AIG said it would reimburse him as
much as $150 million in legal fees and return a Persian rug,
photographs and other personal belongings.  Earlier that year,  Edward Liddy , who was then AIG’s CEO,
said Greenberg was partly responsible for the insurer’s
struggles. Greenberg had said Liddy wasn’t fit to run the
company, and that sales of AIG units to repay the bailout were a
“tragedy.” He told Congress that risk controls he put in place
were weakened or eliminated after he left.  Greenberg was forced from AIG in 2005 amid a fraud probe by
then-New York Attorney General  Eliot Spitzer . AIG agreed in 2006
to pay $1.64 billion to settle a fraud probe by regulators
including Spitzer, who accused the company of rigging bids,
duping shareholders and underfunding workers’ compensation
pools. Spitzer subsequently dropped portions of the case against
Greenberg, who denies wrongdoing.  AIG gained 11 cents to $35.76 yesterday in  New York 
trading. It surged 52 percent last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  