-- Berkshire’s Peltier Says Mortgage Rule Clears Loan Path
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-01-10T20:03:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/berkshire-s-peltier-says-mortgage-rule-clears-loan-path.html
Ron Peltier , head of the real-estate
brokerage business at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
said a new U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau rule
setting lending standards could help banks extend credit.  The regulation announced today forces lenders to verify
borrowers’ ability to repay mortgages and limits the liability
banks can face if they originate loans that later sour. That
protection should make banks less hesitant to lend, said
Peltier, who leads Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire’s
HomeServices of America.  “You’ve got some clear pathways to be able to do business,
which I think has been lacking,” he said today in a phone
interview. Banks “loaded with capital” didn’t want to lend
because rules weren’t defined, he said.  Congress mandated that CFPB draft the rule in response to
lax lending standards that contributed to the 2008 financial
crisis. The bureau plans to issue other regulations as it
reshapes the mortgage market to address past abuses. Mortgage
bankers and real estate agents had warned that a proliferation
of new provisions could make it harder for borrowers to access
credit and hinder the housing recovery.  HomeServices, the second-largest U.S. residential real
estate broker, has been making acquisitions as property markets
rebound and home prices increase. The company said yesterday
that it bought closely held broker Guarantee Real Estate to
expand in central  California .  Mortgage Underwriting  The qualified-mortgage rule will cover home loans in the
underwriting phase. Banks such as  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Bank of America Corp.  and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  will be subject to the rule, as will non-depository
originators.  In so-called qualified mortgages, borrowers can’t spend
more than 43 percent of their monthly income on debt. Such loans
get some protection against consumer lawsuits.  “It is clearly not going to be a solution for people that
are on the margins trying to buy their first home and have
questionable credit,” Peltier said. “Not everybody is geared
to own and be responsible to be involved in a mortgage and try
to pay for a house. Some people are just more geared for
rental.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  