-- Biden Vows Action on Guns as Wal-Mart, NRA Join in Talks
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2013-01-10T17:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/biden-vows-action-on-guns-as-wal-mart-nra-join-in-talks-2-.html
The Obama administration and its
allies are intensifying the push to curb gun violence, promising
to impose new restrictions and invest millions of dollars in
combating the power of the  National Rifle Association .  Vice President  Joe Biden  said the administration will
consider using executive orders to place limitations on access
to firearms following last month’s mass shooting at a Newtown,
Connecticut, elementary school. He vowed to give recommendations
to President  Barack Obama  by next week.  There’s “no single answer” to stopping such tragedies or
the daily gun violence in the U.S., Biden said today as he
started a meeting with groups representing hunters and wildlife
organizations. “We understand it’s a complicated issue.”  The administration said it would hold four separate
gatherings today as part of an effort to build support for
policy proposals since the Dec. 14 massacre that killed 20
children and six adults at the Connecticut school.  Along with outdoors groups, the sessions include
representatives of gun owners and manufacturers, such as the NRA
and the Independent Firearm Owners Association, the
entertainment industry, and retailers  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the
world’s biggest, and  Dick’s Sporting Goods Inc. (DKS) , the largest
U.S. sporting goods chain, which suspended sales of some rifles
after the Connecticut shootings.  Holder Meets  Biden’s first meeting this morning was with groups such as
Ducks Unlimited and the Outdoor Industry Association. He’s
scheduled to meet with the gun groups this afternoon and the
entertainment industry, including Comcast Corp. and the  Motion
Picture Association  of America, this evening. Attorney General
Eric Holder is leading the retailers meeting.  Obama gave Biden an end-of-the-month deadline to come up
with recommendations for measures to stem deaths and injuries
from firearms. Since the shooting, advocates of more
restrictions have revived long-stalled efforts to push for
legislation to regulate or limit access to guns.  “Every once in a while there’s something that awakens the
conscience of the country, and that tragic event did in a way
like nothing I’ve seen in my career,” Biden, 70, said
yesterday.  As legislative fixes percolate, outside groups are laying
the groundwork to fight the NRA, which claims more than 4
million members and spent at least $20 million advocating for
the election of pro-gun federal candidates last year.  Funding Effort  Steve and Amber Mostyn, wealthy Texas trial attorneys, said
yesterday they are giving $1 million to help a gun-control
advocacy group formed by former  Arizona  Representative  Gabrielle Giffords  and her husband, astronaut  Mark Kelly . Giffords was
critically wounded in a 2011 shooting by a gunman in Tucson who
killed six other people.  Steve Mostyn, one of the top contributors to a super-
political action committee that assisted in Obama’s re-election
effort, is  listed as treasurer  of Giffords’s new super-PAC,
Americans for Responsible Solutions. Mostyn said the group will
have a nonprofit wing, which will be used to conduct a public
education campaign.  The super-PAC’s main goal is to counter the gun lobby’s
political contributions, Mostyn said, which is how he’s pitching
it to other big Democratic donors as he asks them to write six-
figure checks.  “It’s time to stop the NRA from bullying common sense out
of the discussion,” he said in an interview. “There are more
options than just ‘guns or no guns.’”  Super-PAC  Mostyn, 41 and a resident of Houston, said he owns many
guns and has a shooting range at his ranch in west Texas. A
longtime donor to Texas candidates and political causes, he and
his wife gave more than $5 million last year to the pro-Obama
Priorities USA Action and to House Majority, a super-PAC that
backed Democratic congressional candidates.  “I understand their ability to get things done,” Mostyn
said of outside groups.  The NRA has rejected any new limits on gun ownership,
proposing instead that the government put armed guards in U.S.
schools to protect students. Andrew Arulanandam, a spokesman for
the group, didn’t return e-mails or calls yesterday requesting
comment.  Almost one month after the tragedy in Newtown, the
challenges facing the administration are sharpening. Gun-rights
advocates are pushing back against proposed rules as Republicans
warn that it could be months before Congress takes up
legislation.  Other Priorities  “The biggest problem we have at the moment is spending and
 debt ,” Senate Minority leader  Mitch McConnell  said in a Jan. 6
interview on ABC’s “This Week.” “That’s going to dominate the
Congress between now and the end of March.”  A coalition of gun-rights groups has planned a nationwide
action scheduled for Jan. 19, a day before Obama will be sworn
in for a second term. The groups are urging gun-rights
supporters to show up at firearms stores, gun shows and shooting
ranges that day.  About 85 Americans are fatally shot daily -- 53 of them
suicides, according to figures from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention. Meanwhile, restrictions on firearms have
faced resistance in Congress for decades.  Biden’s group will review options such as reinstating a ban
on military-style assault weapons that expired in 2004, closing
loopholes that allow gun buyers to escape background checks and
limiting use of high-capacity ammunition magazines.  Beyond firearms restrictions, Biden has said the panel will
examine ways to boost mental-health programs in schools and
steps to alter a culture in the U.S. that glamorizes guns and
violence.  “It’s not just a gun-control problem,” White House
spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday. “It goes beyond that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joe Sobczyk at 
 jsobczyk@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  