-- Bin Laden Corpse Photos Should Be Released, Group Argues
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-10T16:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bin-laden-corpse-photos-should-be-released-group-argues.html
Photos of Osama bin Laden’s corpse
and burial at sea, ordered to be kept secret by President  Barack Obama , should be made public, a self-described conservative
watchdog group told a federal appeals court.  Judicial Watch Inc. , in arguments today before a three-
judge panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington , said the
Central Intelligence Agency has failed to demonstrate how images
of bin Laden’s body -- specifically those showing it cleaned and
prepared for burial -- would harm national security or reveal
classified intelligence strategies.  “The focus is not on those images that depict a somber and
dignified burial at sea -- those images are not discussed,”
 Michael Bekesha , a lawyer for the Washington-based legal-
activist group, told the judges, referring to the government’s
explanation of its secrecy.  Questions by two of the judges during today’s 40-minute
argument signaled that the government properly determined that
such images -- even one of bin Laden shrouded in white garments
in an empty room -- might endanger the lives of U.S. soldiers
and civilians and increase the likelihood of violence against
allies.  U.S. Circuit Judge Merrick Garland read from declarations
filed by American military commanders referring to prior
violence and deaths due to an incorrect report by  Newsweek  that
military personnel at Guantanamo Bay had desecrated the Koran
and publication of a Danish cartoon of the  Prophet Muhammad .  Judge’s Comment  “Why should we not defer to them?” Garland said. “Both
are telling us there’s a risk -- not a certainty -- that
Americans will die if we release the documents.”  The judges haven’t said they have seen the pictures.  In an interview in May 2011 with the CBS program “60
Minutes,” Obama said release of the “very graphic” photos of
the al-Qaeda leader’s corpse might be used by extremists as
propaganda to incite violence.  “We don’t trot out this stuff as trophies,” the president
said, according to a  CBS  transcript.  The lawsuit, filed under the Freedom of Information Act,
involves pictures of bin Laden after he was killed during a raid
by U.S. special operations forces on his compound in Abbottabad,
 Pakistan , in May 2011.  The government argues that the photos and any video are
exempt from disclosure because they reveal secret intelligence
operations and foreign activity and would pose a risk to
national security.  A lower-court judge sided with the government and dismissed
Judicial Watch’s lawsuit in April.  ‘Frequent’ Pattern  “In these cases, it’s very frequent that intelligence
agencies do get the benefit of the doubt when they talk about
harm to national security or revealing sources and methods,”
 Mark Caramanica , freedom of information director for the
Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, said in an
interview. The agencies are granted wide latitude “without
putting forth real proof,” he said.  Judicial Watch argued in court papers that during the  Bush
administration  there were instances when graphic post-mortem
pictures of war targets were made public without resulting in
harm to national security.  The group pointed in court filings to photographs of the
deceased sons of  Saddam Hussein  released by the Defense
Department in 2003. A “gruesome, post-mortem” photo of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the Iraqi insurgent leader, was displayed in a
gold frame by the Army during a press conference in 2006, the
group said.  Different Rules  Judicial Watch questions why written descriptions of the
bin Laden’s burial have been unclassified while the images
remain under wraps. The group cited an e-mail released to the
 Associated Press  from a rear admiral who was present during the
burial describing the event.  Some of the images being sought depict “a somber burial in
which the body of the mastermind of the most deadly terrorist
attack of the U.S. was treated with the utmost dignity and
respect,” Bekesha said in court papers.  The case is Judicial Watch Inc. v.  Department of Defense ,
12-5137, U.S. Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  