-- BlackRock to Buy $17.6 Billion ETF Unit From Credit Suisse
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-01-10T13:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/blackrock-to-buy-17-6-billion-etf-business-from-credit-suisse.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest
asset manager, agreed to buy an exchange-traded funds unit from
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to boost its presence in  Switzerland .  The purchase of a business with $17.6 billion of client
assets under management is expected to close by the end of the
second quarter, the New York-based firm said today. BlackRock
didn’t disclose the price of the Credit Suisse unit, which has
58 ETFs, including $8.7 billion in nine funds domiciled in
Switzerland and others in Ireland and Luxembourg.  The acquisition of  Europe ’s fifth-biggest exchange-traded
products business will consolidate the top ranking of
BlackRock’s iShares unit, which has a 38 percent market share in
the region, according to figures published last month by the New
York-based firm. Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink said
last year BlackRock would address the strategy of its iShares
unit, which has about $760 billion in ETPs, after losing market
share in the U.S. to Vanguard Group Inc.  “The ETF business is generally a low margin business which
needs scale to make it attractive,”  Teresa Nielsen , an analyst
at Vontobel Holding AG in Zurich, said in a note to clients.
That means the transaction price as a percentage of managed
assets may be “relatively low,” she said.  The acquisition comes three months after Philipp Hildebrand, who resigned as head of the Swiss central bank last
January over a currency trade by his wife Kashya, joined
BlackRock as vice chairman. Based in  London , Hildebrand oversees
the firm’s relationships with institutional clients outside the
U.S. and reports directly to Fink.  Investor Base  BlackRock has a history of integrating smaller asset
managers and the Credit Suisse business will bolster its
presence in Europe, according to an Oct. 23 research note by
Citigroup Inc.  “The transaction significantly extends BlackRock’s
footprint in Switzerland, which is home to one of the deepest
investor bases in Europe,” Joe Linhares, head of Europe and
 Middle East  at BlackRock’s iShares unit, said in the statement.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, sold the
unit as part of a 15.3 billion-franc ($16.5 billion) capital
raising initiative announced in July after central bank
prompting.  ETPs include those structured as funds, as well as
exchange-traded notes. ETFs grant shareholders a claim on assets
held by the fund, while ETNs represent an unsecured debt
obligation by the issuer to the holder. ETPs, unlike mutual
funds, trade throughout the day on an exchange, like stocks.
They typically hold a basket of securities or physical
commodities that tracks an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  