-- Boies Likens AIG Takeover to Firefighters Seizing Goods
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-10T14:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/boies-likens-aig-takeover-to-firefighters-seizing-goods.html
David Boies , the attorney suing the
U.S. over  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s bailout, said the
firm’s takeover was an abuse of authority similar to
firefighters seizing possessions they rescued from a flood.  “The fire and rescue people say we’re going to cart them
out, we’re going to protect them, but we’re going to take 80
percent of them for the firehouse,” Boies said in an interview
today on CNBC. “Everybody would know that was wrong. It’s also
illegal.”  AIG yesterday opted against joining former Chief Executive
Officer Maurice “Hank” Greenberg in a $25 billion lawsuit that
says the U.S. violated shareholders’ rights by taking over AIG
in 2008 in a bailout designed to save the economy from collapse.
CEO  Robert Benmosche  said the company is working to distance
itself from the rescue and serve clients.  “There are limits to what the government can demand in
return for” rescue loans, said Boies, who represents
Greenberg’s Starr International Co. “What it cannot demand, as
a court in Washington, D.C. has already ruled, is that the
company give up its equity.”  Boies, chairman of Boies, Schiller and Flexner LLP, said he
plans to take depositions from Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and former Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson . He said he
won’t sue New York-based AIG over the board’s decision to reject
Greenberg’s suit.  The lawyer said the government made the right move to
extend credit to stabilize the company and had no need, or legal
authority, to seize equity, because the loans were secured by
the insurer’s assets. The U.S initially took a stake of 80
percent, and the holding climbed to 92 percent as the aid
package swelled to $182.3 billion. The insurer repaid the
assistance last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Bunn in New York at 
 ebunn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  