-- BOJ Said to Consider Boosting Inflation Forecast After Yen Falls
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-01-10T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/boj-said-to-consider-boosting-price-forecast-as-yen-falls-1-.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  may increase its
fiscal 2014 inflation forecast at this month’s policy meeting as
stimulus measures and a weaker  yen  boost growth prospects,
according to people familiar with officials’ discussions.  The central bank may raise an October projection for an 0.8
percent increase in  consumer prices excluding fresh food , the
people said on condition of anonymity because the discussions
are private. They didn’t specify a new number. The current
forecast was made before Prime Minister Shinzo Abe took office
last month, pledging aggressive measures to counter deflation.  The BOJ is set to adopt the 2 percent inflation target
advocated by Abe, doubling its existing goal of 1 percent,
without setting a deadline for achieving it, the people said.
Nomura Holdings Inc. economist Tomo Kinoshita said yesterday
that  Japan ’s struggle to exit deflation means the higher
objective may not be attained until after 2015.  “Two percent is a very ambitious target,” Kinoshita said
in  Tokyo . “The government and Bank of Japan have tried various
means of getting out of deflation, but they have yet to produce
a result.”  Japan’s consumer prices excluding fresh food, a benchmark
monitored by the central bank, fell 0.1 percent in November from
a year earlier. The economy has been gripped by deflation since
the late 1990s, caused by burst stock and land-price bubbles,
and the ensuing hobbling of the financial system by non-
performing loans.  Yen Slips  The yen weakened for a second day yesterday after a draft
document obtained by  Bloomberg News  said Japan’s government
strongly expects the central bank to conduct bold monetary
easing under a clear price target.  The Japanese currency slipped 0.3 percent to 88.18 per
dollar as of 6:06 p.m. in Tokyo, after dropping 1 percent on
Jan. 9. It depreciated to 88.41 on Jan. 4, the weakest level
since July 2010.  The BOJ policy board next meets on Jan. 21-22, with  RBS
Securities Japan Ltd. (RBS)  predicting a 40 trillion yen ($454
billion) expansion of its asset-purchase fund to 116 trillion
yen this year and an extension of the program beyond December
31.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food haven’t advanced 2
percent for any year since 1997, when a national  sales tax  was
increased. Abe is scheduled to unveil his first stimulus package
today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  