-- Brazilian Stocks Rise as AES Tiete Leads Utilities Rally
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-01-10T21:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bovespa-index-futures-climb-as-china-optimism-lifts-commodities.html
Brazilian stocks advanced for a
second day as  AES Tiete SA (GETI3)  led gains by power utilities amid
speculation electricity rates may be increased to make up for
rising costs in the industry.  The MSCI  Brazil /Utilities index rose after after Energy
Minister Edison Lobao said rates may rise if a lack of rain
reduces output at hydropower dams and forces the use of natural-
gas plants to meet demand. Clothing retailer Cia. Hering plunged
the most since June 2009 after reporting sales that missed some
analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark Bovespa index climbed 0.2 percent to
61,678.31 at the close of trading in Sao Paulo. Thirty-seven
stocks rose on the measure while 31 dropped. The real climbed
0.6 percent to 2.0290 per U.S. dollar.  “For power utilities, things are still a bit crazy,”
 Alvaro Bandeira , a partner at Orama Asset Management, said by
phone from Rio de Janeiro. “I don’t think it’s likely for
Brazil to ration electricity because of the rain problem, but
electricity prices will probably have to rise to make up for the
decline in energy supply.”  AES rallied 3.7 percent to 21.85 reais.  Cia. Energetica de
Sao Paulo , the power company known as Cesp, added 3.2 percent to
19.50 reais. Concern has mounted this week that the government
will ration electricity to avoid blackouts after reservoir
levels at dams accounting for most of Brazil’s generating
capacity fell to a 12-year low last month.  Hering Drops  Hering slumped 12 percent to 38.35 reais after saying in a
regulatory filing that fourth-quarter gross revenue rose 10.7
percent from a year earlier. Banco Santander SA, which had
projected a 12.1 percent increase, called the results “weak.”  The  Bovespa (IBOV)  entered a bull market on Jan. 3 after rising 21
percent from last year’s low on June 5 as stimulus from central
banks around the world eased concern that economic growth might
miss expectations while borrowing costs at a record low in
Brazil boosted equity demand. The index has since pared its gain
to 18 percent.  Brazil’s equity index  trades  at 11.2 times analysts’
earnings estimates for the next four quarters, compared with 11
for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’ equities, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Trading volume was 7.92 billion reais in stocks in Sao
Paulo today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with a daily average of 7.25 billion reais in 2012,
according to data compiled by the  exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  