-- BP Sells Forties at Lower Price; 21 Nigeria Crude Cargoes Unsold
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2013-01-10T17:39:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/bp-sells-forties-at-lower-price-21-nigeria-crude-cargoes-unsold.html
BP Plc sold a cargo of North Sea
Forties crude at a lower premium than the previous trade. There
were no bids or offers for Russian Urals grade.  At least 21 Nigerian crude cargoes for loading in February,
or 31 percent, remain unsold because of reduced European
refining margins and rising U.S. shale oil output, said three
traders who participate in the market.  North Sea  Vitol bought Forties consignment F0220 for loading Jan. 28
to Jan. 30 at $1.15 a barrel more than Dated Brent, the lowest
in a week, a Bloomberg survey of traders and brokers monitoring
the Platts pricing window showed. That compares with a Jan. 21
to Jan. 23 lot it bought at a $1.50 premium on Jan. 4.  The lot was advanced to January, two people with knowledge
of the shipping schedule said. It had been added to the February
program, bringing the total number of Forties shipments for sale
next month to 20, they said, asking not to be identified because
the information is confidential.  Reported crude trading typically occurs during the Platts
window, which ends at 4:30 p.m.  London  time. Forties loading in
10 to 25 days was unchanged at $1.55 more than Dated Brent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the most since March 9.  Brent for February settlement traded at $112.27 a barrel on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London at the close of the
window, compared with $111.64 in the previous session. The March
contract was at $111.55, a discount of 72 cents to February.  Mediterranean/Urals  There were no bids or offers for Russian Urals, according
to the Platts survey. Yesterday, Petraco SpA failed to buy
Russian Urals crude at a $1.10 discount to Dated Brent on a
delivered basis to Rotterdam.  The Urals differential to Dated Brent in the Mediterranean
was at minus 66 cents, 12 cents narrower than yesterday,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In northwest  Europe ,
the  discount  shrank to $1.14 from $1.38 in the previous session,
the data showed.  PKN Orlen SA, Poland’s largest oil company, bought Russian
Urals crude from Glencore International Plc, according to three
people with knowledge of the matter.  Orlen purchased the 100,000 metric-ton cargo for loading
from Primorsk port on Jan. 24 to Jan. 28, the people said also
asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The company earlier this week bought a Jan. 21 to Jan. 25
cargo from OAO Lukoil’s Litasco unit.  West Africa  Benchmark Nigerian Qua Iboe blend was unchanged at $2.37 a
barrel more than Dated Brent, Bloomberg data show.  The number of unsold Nigerian cargoes is more than normal
for this stage of the month, according to the people, who asked
not to be identified as the information is confidential. Unsold
grades for export next month include six lots of Qua Iboe, four
Brass, three Forcados, two each of Bonny Light, Erha and Usan
grade and one of Abo and Yoho, the people said.  Nigeria plans to cut exports in February to 67 cargoes
totaling 2.19 million barrels a day, compared with 75 shipments
this month, according to shipping schedules obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, bought via
a tender four cargoes of West African crudes for loading in
March, according to four traders with knowledge of the matter.  The company bought one shipment each of Nigerian Qua Iboe
and Okoro from BP and awarded China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as Unipec, one lot each of
Antan and Angolan Nemba blend, they said, asking not to be
identified because the information is confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  