-- Brazil Swap Rates Drop on Signs of Falling Output
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a r a
-- 2013-01-10T20:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/brazil-swap-rates-rise-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Brazil ’s swap rates fell as signs of
faltering industrial output spurred speculation that the central
bank will keep borrowing costs at a record low to support the
economy even as inflation accelerated.  Swap rates due in January 2015 fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.74 percent after earlier increasing
five basis points. The real gained 0.6 percent to 2.0290 per
dollar.  Traders are speculating that Brazil’s central bankers will
allow the real to strengthen to contain inflation while holding
 interest rates  steady to stimulate growth. Heavy-vehicle traffic
and cardboard sales declined in December, a sign that industrial
production in  Latin America ’s largest economy contracted.  “The numbers were very weak,”  Solange Srour , an economist
at BNY Mellon Arx Investimentos, said in a telephone interview
from  Rio de Janeiro . “They suggest supply-side weakness.”  Traffic of trucks and other heavy vehicles on Brazilian
highways dropped 3.1 percent in December from a year earlier,
the Association of Highway Concessionaires reported. Cardboard
sales fell 0.9 percent last month, the Brazilian Corrugated
Paper Association said. The sale of cardboard is considered an
indicator of industrial output and economic performance.  Policy makers left the target lending  rate  at a record low
7.25 percent in November after 10 consecutive reductions since
August 2011 to support growth. The central bank’s next decision
is due Jan. 16.  Accelerating Inflation  The  IPCA index  of consumer prices increased 5.84 percent in
December from a year earlier after rising 5.53 percent in the
prior month, the national statistics agency reported today. The
median forecast of 30 economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for
an increase of 5.79 percent. Annual inflation has exceeded the
4.5 percent midpoint of the central bank’s target range for 28
consecutive months.  The difference in yield between Brazil’s 10-year benchmark
fixed-rate notes and bonds indexed to inflation, rose yesterday
to 5.90 percentage points, the widest since October. The gap,
known as the breakeven rate of inflation, indicates the pace of
increases in consumer prices that traders expect during the life
of the securities.  The real rose on speculation policy makers will allow
further gains to contain inflation after a boost in  China ’s
exports buoyed economic prospects and encouraged demand for
higher-yielding assets.  China’s overseas shipments increased 14.1 percent from a
year earlier, compared with the 5 percent median forecast of 40
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. China is Brazil’s biggest
trading partner.  Currency Intervention  Policy makers swung in 2012 between selling currency swaps
to prevent the real from falling too quickly and offering
reverse currency swaps to protect exporters by keeping the real
from strengthening beyond 2 per dollar.  The currency has gained 2 percent since Dec. 20, when
Carlos Hamilton, the central bank’s director for economic
policy, said officials consider an exchange rate of 2.05 as more
“adequate” when creating economic forecasts than 2.10.  “For the real, we expect appreciation,” Octavio de Barros, an economist at  Banco Bradesco , wrote in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Lara in Sao Paulo at 
 plara6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  