-- Brazil December Inflation Quickens More Than Forecast
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2013-01-16T19:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/brazil-consumer-prices-rise-more-than-forecast-in-december-1-.html
(Corrects central bank growth forecast in fifth paragraph
of story originally published Jan. 10.)  Brazil’s  consumer prices  in December
rose more than economists forecast, increasing doubts that the
central bank will be able to maintain  interest rates  at a record
low this year.  Prices as measured by the IPCA index rose 0.79 percent in
December, the national statistics agency said today in Rio de
Janeiro. That was more than every  estimate  from 34 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, whose median forecast was for an increase
of 0.74 percent. Inflation has exceeded estimates for the sixth
straight month. Annual price increases quickened to 5.84 percent
from 5.53 percent in November, compared with a forecast of 5.79
percent from 30 economists surveyed.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration has enacted
dozens of measures to rev up the world’s second-largest emerging
economy, and the central bank since August 2011 has  cut  its
benchmark lending rate by the most among Group of 20 nations,
lowering it by 5.25 percentage points to a record 7.25 percent.
So far, the measures have failed to trigger a broad-based
recovery, and inflation in 2012  exceeded  the 4.5 percent
midpoint of the bank’s target for the third straight year.  “It doesn’t look good,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said by telephone from
Sao Paulo. “They will eventually have to be more realistic and
raise rates this year, otherwise they will lose the credibility
that was built over the last decade.”  Retail Sales  Brazil’s gross domestic product grew 1 percent last year
and will expand 3.3 percent in the four quarters through the
third quarter of 2013, the central bank estimates. While retail
sales  rose  9.1 percent in October from last year, industrial
production has  lagged , with output falling on an annual basis in
14 of 15 months through November.  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2015, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, fell three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 7.74 percent at 10:42 a.m. local time. The
real strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.0379 per  U.S. dollar .  The government is targeting an average 20 percent cut in
power rates starting next month, which had been expected to help
tame inflation. With hydroelectric reservoir levels low because
of droughts in Brazil, the grid is resorting to costlier thermal
generation that may limit the decline in electricity prices.  December consumer prices rose the fastest since March 2011,
led by personal expenses that jumped 1.6 percent, and food and
beverages that increased 1.03 percent. Annual inflation was led
by the same components, which increased 10.2 percent and 9.9
percent, respectively.  Historic Lows  Even as growth has stalled, unemployment has remained near
historic  lows , reaching 4.9 percent in November, adding pressure
on prices that are rising faster than in  Chile ,  Colombia ,  Mexico 
and  Peru .  “Inflation is not going to come down until the labor
market eases,”  Pedro Tuesta , economist at 4Cast Inc., in a
phone interview from  Washington  on Jan. 9. “The biggest
pressure on inflation is on the service side, which is labor
intensive.”  Rousseff’s government worked last year to weaken the real,
which has declined 11.6 percent over the past year, the second-
worst performance among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. While the weaker currency boosts the competitiveness
of local industry, it also fans inflation by making imported
products more expensive.  “In the short term, inflation has proved resilient, but
the prospects indicate a return to a declining trend throughout
2013,” central bank President Alexandre Tombini said in a
 statement  posted on the bank’s website. Brazil’s inflation has
remained within the 2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range for
the past nine years, Tombini said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  