-- Brown Ready to Spend New Taxes as California Budget Mends
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/brown-ready-to-spend-new-taxes-as-california-budget-mends.html
  California  Governor  Jerry Brown  has
a fresh $6 billion to spend from higher taxes approved by voters
on his pledge to fix years of fiscal imbalance in the biggest
state by population. He has promised to use restraint.  The budget that Brown is to unveil today will lay out how
he plans to spend more on education while erasing a deficit
that, even after the tax increase, is projected at almost $2
billion by the independent Legislative Analyst’s Office. If the
estimate holds, the gap would be the smallest since 2007.  Californians have granted Brown the highest  state sales tax 
in the U.S., at 7.5 percent, and boosted levies on income
starting at $250,000 -- reaching 13.3 percent on those making $1
million or more, the most of any state. The increases, which
expire within seven years, help fill a recurring gap between
spending and revenue that led lawmakers to accumulate $30
billion of internal borrowing that Brown seeks to pay down.  “Most people want to spend more money than the state has,
and I will tell you, 2013 is the year of fiscal discipline and
living within our means,” Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, told
reporters earlier this week. “I’m going to make sure that
happens.”  The budget that’s passed by Brown and Democrats who control
the Legislature may have broader implications for the state’s
lagging credit rating, and thus its cost of borrowing.  Standard & Poor’s , which last raised California’s grade in
2006, revised its outlook to positive in February. The rating
company said it would boost the level within two years if Brown
resolved the budget gaps. S&P puts the state at A-, six steps
below AAA and lower than any other state.  Bullet Trains  While Brown has promised fiscal repair, he’s also
championed spending $68 billion on high-speed passenger trains,
building a pair of tunnels 40 miles (64 kilometers) to divert
water to thirsty  Southern California  and indicated he wants to
overhaul how the state finances local schools.  Brown’s budget office estimated the higher taxes will raise
$8 billion in the year that began July 1 and $6 billion annually
after that. The first year is higher because the income-tax
increase was effective from the beginning of the 2012 calendar
year. Combined with spending cuts and economic growth, the
increase may produce a surplus by 2015 if spending is held in
check, the legislative analyst said.  Brown will have another $500 million extra to spend from a
voter initiative pushed by Thomas Steyer, the former hedge fund
chief who was chairman of Farallon Capital Management LLC in  San
Francisco . The measure stripped out-of-state corporations of an
option for lowering their California income taxes. It’s
projected to raise about $1 billion annually, with half set
aside for the state’s general fund and half for energy-
efficiency programs.  Total Spending  The legislative analyst projected in November that general-
fund spending in the coming fiscal year would reach as much as
 $97.7 billion , up from $94 billion this year and $87 billion
last year. That’s down from $103 billion in 2008, the most ever,
under Republican Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .  Brown and fellow Democrats in June passed a $130.7 billion
budget including special funds that are restricted to certain
uses. Including spending from bond proceeds on public works
projects, the budget this year is a record $142.4 billion.
That’s an 8 percent increase over former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger’s last spending plan.  “The majority party likes to brag about how general-fund
spending has dropped,” said  Connie Conway  of Tulare, the
Assembly Republican leader. “Overall spending has actually
grown by $68 billion during the last decade through a game of
spending shifts in which the state ‘cuts’ a program out of one
pocket but continues funding it through another.”  Supermajority Vote  Brown will revise his budget in May with the latest revenue
and spending estimates. Lawmakers have until June 15 to pass a
spending plan, or lose their pay until they do.  The budget can be approved on a simple majority vote,
thanks to a 2010 initiative that lowered the requirement from
two-thirds. Any attempt to raise taxes needs approval by a
supermajority, a power Democrats will enjoy for parts of this
calendar year.  Democrats have indicated they want to use some of the
higher revenue to restore funding for programs that were cut.  “Whatever he describes the deficit at, we know it will be
eminently manageable compared to what we have dealt with over
the last four or five years,” Senate President Pro Tem Darrell Steinberg, a Democrat from  Sacramento , told reporters. “We will
live within our means and we will govern responsibly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  