-- Canada November New House Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-01-10T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/canada-november-new-house-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the new house price index report for November released by
 Statistics Canada .  The New Housing Price Index (NHPI) rose 0.1% in November,
following a 0.2% increase in October.  The combined metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa was
the top contributor to the advance. Market conditions were the
primary reason for higher prices.  The largest monthly price advance in November occurred in
 London  (+0.6%), followed by Halifax and St. Catharines-Niagara,
with both regions recording a 0.5% increase.  Increased operating costs were the main reason for the
price advance in London. In Halifax, prices rose as a result of
increased material costs. Builders in St. Catharines-Niagara
reported new higher list prices for new phases of development.  Prices were unchanged in 4 of the 21 metropolitan regions
surveyed in November. Monthly prices declined 0.5% in Victoria
and 0.4% in  Vancouver  as a result of lower negotiated selling
prices.  On a year-over-year basis, the NHPI rose 2.2% in the 12
months to November, following a 2.4% increase the previous month.
The main contributor to the advance was the combined
metropolitan region of Toronto and Oshawa, where the year-over-
year-increase in contractors’ selling prices was 4.1%. Winnipeg
was also up 4.1% for the year. Other significant year-over-year
increases occurred in Regina (+3.3%) and Québec (+2.9%).  Among the 21 metropolitan regions surveyed, 4 posted 12-
month price declines in November. The largest decrease was in
Victoria (-2.9%).  Note to readers  The New Housing  Price Index  measures changes over time in
the selling prices of new residential houses agreed upon between
the contractor and the buyer at the time of the signing of the
contract. It is designed to measure the changes in the selling
prices of new houses where detailed specifications pertaining to
each house remain the same between two consecutive periods. The
prices collected from builders and included in the index are
market selling prices less value added taxes, such as the
Federal Goods and Services Tax or the Harmonized Sales Tax.  The provincial government of British Columbia introduced
legislation on May 14, 2012, announcing the return to a
provincial sales tax on April 1, 2013. From April 1, 2012, until
March 31, 2013, there are new housing transitional rebates in
place. After the transition is complete, the provincial  sales
tax  on building materials in British Columbia will be embedded
in contractors’ selling prices of new houses. These changes will
be reflected in the New Housing Price Index as reported by
respondents.  The indexes are not subject to revision and are not
seasonally adjusted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  