-- Canadian Dollar Strengthens as Chinese Exports Rise
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-01-10T22:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/canadian-dollar-strengthens-as-chinese-exports-rise.html
The Canadian dollar rose to a three-
week high against its U.S counterpart after China’s exports
topped estimates, boosting speculation a strengthening economy
will drive demand for  Canada ’s commodities.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, briefly pared
gains on signs the Canadian housing market was cooling faster
than forecast. Bank of Canada Senior Deputy Governor Tiff
Macklem said the “near-term” momentum of the country’s economy
appears to be “softer” than projected, even as activity is
forecast to pick up this year. Canada’s dollar fell the most in
almost three months versus the euro after the region’s central
bank held its interest-rate target unchanged.  “As long as commodity prices stay relatively high, our
economy will be OK,” Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist a
Scotiabank’s ScotiaMcLeod unit in Toronto said by phone from
Toronto. “The housing situation is a risk for Canada, but I
don’t think we’re going to see the chaos we saw in the United
States.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.5 percent to 98.32 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5:10 p.m. in Toronto, reaching the strongest
level since Dec. 18. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0171. It
weakened 1.1 percent to C$1.3050 per euro, touching the largest
loss since Oct. 16.  Oil, Stocks  Crude oil, the nation’s largest export, rose 0.9 percent to
$93.92 a barrel in New York. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.7 percent while the S&P/TSX Composite Index, the
benchmark Canadian equity gauge, added 0.8 percent.  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bond fell, with yields rising
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.95 percent.
The 2.75 percent note due in June 2022 dropped 44 cents to
C$106.79.  The Canadian government sold C$3.4 billion ($3.44 billion)
of 1.25 percent notes due in March 2018 yesterday, drawing an
average yield of 1.494 percent. The Bank of Canada will sell
C$3.3 billion of notes maturing in May 2015 on Jan. 16.  Canadian construction permits in November fell 17.9 percent
to C$6.2 billion, the lowest level since January 2012,
Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. Increases in home prices
slowed in November, a separate survey showed. The Bank of Canada
has said a rapid drop in house prices is a major threat to the
Canadian economy, where household debt to disposable income
reached a record in the third quarter of last year.  China ’s overseas sales rose 14.1 percent in December from a
year earlier, almost triple the 5 percent gain forecast in a
Bloomberg analyst survey, data showed today.  Rate Outlook  “Commodity currencies did well overnight, the Chinese
data, with the exports jumping up the economy definitely looks
like it’s rebounding,” Chris Gaffney, co-chief investment
officer at EverBank Wealth Management, said by phone from St.
Louis. “While growth is still not back in the double digits we
believe that it will get back over sever percent to eight
percent and I believe that’s got to put some wind back in the
sails of the commodity currencies and Canada’s certainly
benefited from that.”  Amid the improving outlook for the global economy and signs
of a strengthening job market economists have brought forward
estimates of a Bank of Canada rate increase into 2013.  The central bank will raise its 1 percent benchmark
interest rate by one quarter of a percentage point by the end of
this year, according to the median estimate of 23 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News from Jan. 4 to Jan. 9. In last
month’s survey, economists forecast such an increase in the
first quarter of 2014.  In a speech today in Kingston, Ontario, Macklem said
housing is beginning to decline in line with projections and
exports are being restrained by weak demand and
“competitiveness challenges.” Economic growth slowed in the
third quarter because of “transitory disruptions” in the
energy sector, he said.  Momentum Watch  “We continue to expect economic activity to pick up
through 2013, but near-term momentum now appears to be slightly
softer than previously anticipated,” Macklem said, according to
a copy of the speech posted on the central bank’s website.  The loonie extended losses versus the euro after the ECB
held its benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent and President
Mario Draghi said the euro-area economy will recover this year
as the region’s bond market stabilizes.  “I think doing nothing, keeping rates and spreads where
they are, is short-term bullish for the euro,”  Dean Popplewell ,
head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-trading firm
Oanda Corp., said by phone from Toronto. “History will tell you
it should head north, and Canada should do better on the
crosses, as people will gravitate towards risk a little more.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  