-- Canada November Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2013-01-10T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/canada-november-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
November building permits report from Statistics Canada.  Municipalities issued building permits worth $6.2 billion
in November, down 17.9% from October and the lowest level since
January 2012. This follows a 15.9% increase in October.  The decrease was primarily the result of lower construction
intentions in both the non-residential and residential sectors
in Ontario.  Between January and November 2012, contractors took out
permits worth $74.5 billion, 11.0% higher than in the same
period in 2011.  Total permits value for the first 11 months of 2012 also
surpassed the pre-recession peak of $74.4 billion for the entire
year of 2007.  Construction intentions in the non-residential sector fell
30.6% to $2.4 billion, following a 53.6% increase the previous
month. Ontario and Quebec were responsible for most of the
decline. Construction intentions rose in Manitoba and Prince
 Edward Island .  In the residential sector, the value of permits declined
6.8% to $3.8 billion in November, following a 4.4% decline the
previous month. Ontario had the largest decline, with Nova
Scotia a distant second. The decline in Ontario more than offset
increases in the western provinces and in Quebec.  Non-residential sector: Declines in the industrial and
institutional components  Construction intentions in the industrial component fell
60.7% to $427 million in November after surpassing the $1-
billion mark in October when the value of permits more than
tripled (+217.9%).  The decrease in November was largely the result of lower
construction intentions for manufacturing plants,
transportation-related buildings and utilities buildings.
Construction intentions for industrial buildings were down in
every province except Manitoba and New Brunswick.  Following a 74.8% gain in October, the value of permits in
the institutional component declined 49.1% to $515 million in
November. The decrease was largely attributable to lower
construction intentions for medical facilities in Ontario and
for educational institutions in Ontario, Saskatchewan, Manitoba
and New Brunswick.  In the commercial component, the value of permits grew 5.9%
to $1.5 billion in November, following a 3.4% increase the
previous month.  The advance in November came from a variety of buildings,
including office buildings, retail and wholesale outlets, hotels
and restaurants, recreational facilities, warehouses and retail
complexes. Commercial building construction intentions increased
in four provinces, led by Ontario.  Quebec  and British Columbia
had the largest decreases.  Residential sector: Lower construction intentions for multi-
family and single-family dwellings  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings fell
10.8% to $1.5 billion in November. It was the fifth consecutive
monthly decrease. The decline was principally attributable to
lower construction intentions in Ontario, which more than offset
gains in six provinces led by British Columbia, Manitoba and
Quebec.  Municipalities issued $2.2 billion worth of building
permits for single-family dwellings in November, down 4.0% from
October and the third decrease in four months. Lower intentions
in Ontario more than offset gains in six provinces led by
Alberta, Manitoba and, to a lesser extent, British Columbia.  Municipalities approved the construction of 16,627 new
dwellings in November, down 9.6% from October.  The decrease was largely the result of a 13.7% decline in
multi-family units to 9,989. The number of permits issued for
single-family dwellings fell 2.7% to 6,638 units.  Provinces: Ontario posts largest decline  Construction intentions fell in seven provinces in November.
Ontario posted the largest decline, followed by Quebec and
Saskatchewan.  In Ontario, the decline followed a 38.4% increase in
October. The drop was a result of lower construction intentions
for institutional buildings, residential dwellings and
industrial buildings. Ontario had posted large increases in the
institutional and industrial components in October, while
residential building construction intentions declined 30.0% in
November to their lowest level since February 2011.  A 9.3% decline in Quebec was attributable to lower
construction intentions for industrial and commercial buildings.
In Saskatchewan, the value of permits for non-residential
buildings was behind the decline.  The largest increase occurred in Manitoba, where all
components except institutional buildings advanced. Alberta and
Prince Edward Island also registered gains.  Most census metropolitan areas post declines  The value of permits fell in 19 of the 34 census
metropolitan areas.  Toronto, Hamilton and Québec recorded the largest decreases.
Toronto reported declines in every component, except commercial
buildings. Hamilton’s drop stemmed from institutional buildings
and multi-family dwellings, both of which had increased the
previous month. In Québec, the decrease came particularly from
lower construction intentions for commercial buildings.  The largest increases occurred in Winnipeg,  Vancouver  and
Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo. In Winnipeg, the gain originated
from higher construction intentions for industrial buildings and
residential dwellings.  Vancouver’s advance came mainly from multi-family dwellings
and institutional buildings. Both the residential and non-
residential sectors were behind the increase in Kitchener-
Cambridge-Waterloo.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents seasonally
adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by removing the
effects of seasonal variations. For more information on seasonal
adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment and identifying economic
trends ( http://www5.statcan.gc.ca/bsolc/olc-cel/colc -
cel?catno=11-010-X201000311141&amp;lang=eng) .  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the population
are very small, and their levels of building activity have
little impact on the total for the entire population.  The value of planned construction activities shown in this
release excludes engineering projects (for example, waterworks,
sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census metropolitan
area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is divided into two
areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Data for the current reference month are subject to
revision based on late responses. Data have been revised for the
previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  