-- Capital-Gains Tax Threatens Greek Stocks, Regulator Says
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2013-01-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/capital-gains-tax-threatens-greek-stocks-regulator-says.html
The rally in Greek shares that has
pushed the  ASE Index (ASE)  to a 16-month high may be threatened by
plans to introduce a capital-gains tax on equities to help
narrow the  budget deficit , regulators and investor groups said.  “We have had discussions with the ministry insisting that,
in this period, it is counterproductive to have both a capital-
gains tax and the already existing tax on the stock exchange,”
Constantinos Botopoulos, chairman of the Hellenic Capital
Markets Commission, which regulates the stock exchange, said in
a telephone interview yesterday.  Equities will be subject to a 20 percent levy on gains in
capital in addition to an existing 0.2 percent financial-
transaction tariff from April 1, if parliament approves the
measures in a vote expected to be held tomorrow.  Greece ’s
international creditors have demanded 2.5 billion euros ($3.3
billion) of additional taxes in 2013 on top of 9 billion euros
of spending cuts as conditions for releasing bailout funds.  The proposals risk stalling the ASE’s 107 percent rebound
from June’s two-decade low, Kimon Volikas, president of the
Hellenic Fund and Asset Management Association, said. The
benchmark gauge for Greek shares rose 0.4 percent to 983.91
yesterday, the highest level since Aug. 29, 2011.  “ Capital-gains  taxation is something that happens all over
the world, it’s not something new,” Volikas said. “But we are
in a different phase of our economic evolution compared to other
countries. What we need is to motivate investment. The timing is
completely wrong.”  U.S. Rates  In the U.S., investors face taxes of as much as 23.8
percent on long-term capital gains, depending on their income.
The U.K. has a top rate of 28 percent.  Greece’s capital-gains duties may be postponed due to
opposition from investor groups, Capital.gr reported yesterday,
without citing anyone. The  finance ministry  will examine
alternative proposals ahead of another tax bill expected to be
introduced in the next few months, the Greek website said. The
tax has been repeatedly delayed since it was proposed in 2007.  Surging  borrowing costs  forced Greece to accept two
bailouts from the European Union and  International Monetary
Fund . Budget cuts imposed by the rescue deal have helped drive
the country into the worst recession since World War II.  According to the latest review of Greece’s economic
adjustment program by the European Commission, the country’s
deficit is estimated to be 4.6 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013. The economy is forecast to contract 4.2 percent,
followed by growth of 0.6 percent in 2014, the Commission data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  