-- Car Companies XP Vehicles, Limnia Sue U.S. Over Loans
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-01-10T20:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/car-companies-xp-vehicles-limnia-sue-u-s-over-loans.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
administration played favorites on clean-energy loans while
improperly blocking a carmaker and a related technology company
from receiving millions in aid, according to two lawsuits.  XP Vehicles Inc. and Limnia Inc. filed complaints against
the U.S. and the Energy Department today in two federal courts
in  Washington , seeking damages for what they say were abuses of
the $25 billion Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing loan
program. XP Vehicles, which has dissolved, and Limnia are asking
for $450 million in a case filed in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims and at least $225 million in U.S. District Court.  “Defendants used the ATVM loan program as nothing more
than a veil to steer hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars to
government cronies,” according to the district court complaint.  Today’s lawsuits are the latest challenge to clean-energy
loan programs administered by the Energy Department, which has
come under scrutiny over a $535 million loan guarantee to now-
bankrupt solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC.  “While the department does not comment on pending or
potential litigation, multiple investigations spanning almost
two years and involving millions of pages of documents show that
decisions made on the department’s loan program were made solely
on the merits after careful review by the department’s technical
experts,” Damien Lavera, an Energy Department spokesman, said
in an e-mail.  Koch Foundation  The companies are being represented by Daniel Epstein,
 executive director  for a Washington-based nonprofit advocacy
group. He previously worked for a foundation started by Koch
Industries Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Charles Koch , a
billionaire contributor to Republican-leaning causes. He was
also counsel for Republican U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa ’s
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, which is
leading a probe of the department’s loan programs.  XP Vehicles, or XPV, said it applied in 2008 for a
$40 million loan in an effort to mass produce an SUV-style
electronic vehicle with doors and other parts made from foam.
The starting price for the vehicle was to be less than $20,000.  The carmaker said it believed the review of its application
would take “a matter of weeks.” After meeting with the agency
in May 2009, XPV said it discovered that two of its competitors
--  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  and Fisker Automotive Inc. -- were
receiving special assistance from agency staff with the loan
application process.  Obama Contributor  One member of Tesla’s board at the time was Steven Westly,
a campaign contributions bundler for Obama, while Fisker’s
investors included Obama donors, according to the complaint.  Tesla received a $465 million loan in June 2009 with an
interest rate of 1.6 percent, according to the complaint. XPV
called one of Tesla’s products “an expensive electric car
targeted at rich actors, journalists and businessmen, not
average Americans.”  Fisker received a $528.7 million loan. The department in
May 2011 blocked Fisker from receiving the bulk of the loan,
after the company didn’t meet milestones for producing its first
model.  Jeff Evanson, a spokesman for  Palo Alto , California-based
Tesla, and Roger Ormisher, a spokesman for Anaheim, California-
based Fisker, didn’t immediately respond to e-mail messages
seeking comment on the lawsuits.  XPV’s application was denied in August 2009. The reasons
given by the agency involved vehicle specifications as well as
manufacturing and sales plans, according to the complaint.  Limnia is also challenging applications for loans it sought
that were denied.  The Energy Department has made five loans under the
advanced-vehicles program -- none since the 2011 bankruptcy of
Solyndra -- and $16 billion remains undistributed.  The court of federal claims case is XP Vehicles Inc. v.
U.S. Department of Energy, 12-cv-00774, U.S. Court of Federal
Claims (Washington). The district court case is XP Vehicles Inc.
v. U.S. Department of Energy, 13-cv-00037, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  