-- Carlos Slim Plans to Sell Retailer Sanborns Shares
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2013-01-11T00:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/carlos-slim-plans-to-sell-retailer-sanborns-shares.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  plans to
sell shares of his Mexican retail and restaurant company, Grupo
Sanborns.  Slim’s Grupo Carso SAB, based in  Mexico  City, will call
shareholder meetings to authorize a public offering of the
shares, according to a filing today. Slim, the world’s richest
person according to the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index , owns
almost 80 percent of Carso.  The listing follows the 2011 spinoffs of Carso’s mining and
real-estate units as Slim breaks the holding company into pieces
to better reflect their value. Sanborns, which includes a retail
chain of the same name and Mexican locations of Sears and Saks
stores, is Carso’s largest division, making up about  half  of
sales.  Carso fell 1 percent to 61.57 pesos at the close in Mexico
City before the Sanborns listing was announced. The shares
surged 85 percent last year.  With annualized sales of more than 80 billion pesos ($6.34
billion), Carso is the third-biggest holding in Slim’s $77.8
billion portfolio, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
trails only wireless carrier  America Movil SAB (AMXL)  and financial-
services firm Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB.  Sanborns History  Sanborns was a publicly traded company until 2006, when
Carso announced plans to buy the outstanding shares. Carso’s
other holdings include a construction unit and a division that
makes industrial materials such as pipes and ducts.  Slim acquired control of the Sanborns chain in 1985 and
expanded it from 32 stores to 165 outlets across Mexico, with
two locations in El Salvador and one in  Panama  as of the end of
2011, according to Carso’s  annual report .  The Sanborns chain, founded in 1903 by immigrant brothers
from  California  who opened a pharmacy in Mexico City, sports a
restaurant and bar in most locations, along with electronics,
gifts, magazines, books, video games and music.  Carso bought a majority stake in 1997 in the Mexican
locations of the company that is now  Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  Sears
is now the biggest part of Grupo Sanborns, making up more than
half of its sales.  Through the end of 2011, Slim had opened two Saks Fifth
Avenue locations in Mexico through an agreement with  Saks Inc. (SKS) 
Grupo Sanborns also includes Sanborns-branded cafes, Mix-Up
music stores and I Shop computer outlets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  