-- CEDC Pares Weekly Slump Before Scheduled Nasdaq Delisting
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-10T20:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/cedc-pares-weekly-slump-before-scheduled-nasdaq-delisting.html
Central European Distribution Corp. (CEDC) 
rose in New York, paring its biggest slump in eight weeks, as
the stock of  Poland ’s second-largest vodka producer faces
delisting from the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  CEDC, as Warsaw-based company is known, rose 4.3 percent to
$1.94 in New York at 3:44 p.m. in New York, rising for the first
day this week. The stock has declined 19 percent since Jan. 7,
when it received a letter from the Nasdaq indicating the
exchange is initiating delisting of the stock starting tomorrow.
Shares in Warsaw fell for a fourth day, dropping 4.3 percent to
6.05 zloty, or $1.96.  “Some people may think there’s a solution to the
delisting, and also the stock has moved so far down that now any
kind of movement is just amplified,” Jakub Krawczyk, an analyst
at Raiffeisenbank Centrobank SA in Vienna, said by phone today.  Nasdaq  said its seeks to delist the shares after CEDC
failed to hold an annual general meeting in 2012. The vodka
producer said it plans to appeal the decision and hold its
general meeting “as soon as practicable,” according to a
company filing.  CEDC  erased  half of its market value in 2012 amid slumping
sales, increasing debt, and corporate governance transitions.
After the company warned it might not be able to pay back its
debt, CEDC signed an agreement on July 9 with billionaire
Roustam Tariko’s Russian Standard Corp., making Tariko a non-
executive chairman and allowing him to boost his stake in the
company in return for buying debt to avoid default.  William Carey, the company’s former chief executive
officer, resigned in July, and two months later the company’s
stock was suspended in  Warsaw (CDC)  after it delayed the release of
earnings.  “A listed company that has received a delisting
determination letter from Nasdaq may appeal that determination
by requesting a hearing,” according to the exchange’s website.
Wayne Lee, a spokesman with the Nasdaq, said by e-mail today
that the bourse doesn’t comment on specific companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  