-- Cesp Gain Is MPX Loss on Power-Rationing Risk: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a
-- 2013-01-10T12:57:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/cesp-gain-is-mpx-loss-on-power-rationing-risk-corporate-brazil.html
A dry spell that’s emptying
Brazilian hydropower dams is poised to turn  Cia. Energetica de
Sao Paulo , the second-worst generator stock last year, into one
of the industry’s biggest winners.  Cesp, as the utility is known, and other producers that can
sell extra electricity in the spot market may be able to profit
after prices surged to a record, said JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Banco BTG Pactual SA. Net buyers of energy in the spot market --
from billionaire  Eike Batista ’s  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  to steelmaker
 Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA  -- stand to lose the
most, analysts said.  Concern the government will ration electricity to avoid
blackouts has wiped out $2.1 billion in the market value of
 Brazil ’s 15 biggest electricity utilities since Jan. 1.
Reservoir levels at dams accounting for most of the nation’s
generating capacity fell to a 12-year low last month, prompting
state-run  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , or Eletrobras, to
fire up costly natural-gas plants to meet demand.  “It’s reckless to say that there’ll be rationing, but it’s
also reckless to say there won’t be,” Ricardo Correa, a power
industry analyst at Ativa Corretora, said by telephone from  Rio
de Janeiro. (CEGR3)  “The main victims are Eletrobras and MPX.”  The lack of rain threatening hydro output comes after
President  Dilma Rousseff  triggered an industry-wide selloff last
year by requiring companies to cut electricity prices now as a
condition of renewing contracts set to expire between 2015 and
2017. While Eletrobras accepted the offer, utilities such as
Cesp and  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais , or Cemig, opted to
return some contracts instead.  ‘Under-Contracted’  Cesp jumped as much as 5.2 percent to 19.88 reais in Sao
Paulo today, heading for the biggest two-day rise since Nov. 26.  Cesp is “under-contracted,” meaning it produces more than
it has pledged to supply, allowing the Sao Paulo-based utility
to sell the excess in the spot market, Gabriel Salas, a JPMorgan
analyst based in  New York , said in a note to clients. The spot
price rose to 554.82 reais ($271.86) per megawatt hour from
47.47 reais a year ago. MPX and EDP-Energias do Brasil SA rely
on the spot market to secure energy, he said.  “Cesp seems to have the biggest gap of un-contracted
energy,” BTG analysts led by Antonio Junqueira said in a Jan. 7
note to clients. While  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3) ,  AES Corp. (AES) ’s  AES Tiete SA (GETI3) 
unit and GDF Suez’s  Tractebel Energia SA (TBLE3)  may need to buy power
in the spot market to offset lower hydro output and meet supply
contracts, Cesp may have as much as 21 percent of its
electricity available to sell, they estimate.  The BTG analyst based in  Rio de Janeiro  declined to comment
further, while Salas wasn’t available.  Cesp Rebound  Cesp, whose 6.7 percent rally yesterday was the biggest
gain on the benchmark Bovespa index, trades at 8.2 times
estimated 2013 earnings, less than the average ratio of 12 for
Brazil’s 15 biggest electric utilities. Cesp’s 41 percent drop
last year made it the worst utility stock after Eletrobras,
Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA and Cia. de Transmissao de Energia
Eletrica Paulista.  Cesp and Tractebel’s press offices didn’t respond to e-
mails and phone calls requesting comment. CPFL’s press office in
 Sao Paulo  declined to comment. Eletrobras is “analyzing any
potential impacts of the use of thermal plants on its
earnings,” the Rio-based company said in an e-mailed response.
MPX’s press office in Rio didn’t immediately respond.  Generators whose hydropower dams are running below capacity
are spending 800 million reais a month, or about half their
earnings before items, to buy from gas-fired plants to meet
supply contracts, said Nelson Leite, president of distributors
association Abradee. The government may offer aid in the form of
cheap loans from the  development bank , he said.  ‘Delicate’ Situation  Electricity-intensive industries are also exposed to the
surge in spot prices. Usiminas, as Brazil’s third-largest
steelmaker is known, is the most exposed because it “only
generates 25 percent” of the energy it consumes, according to a
Bank of America Corp. note this week. Belo Horizonte-based
Usiminas’s press department declined to comment.  Brazil suffered a wave of nationwide blackouts in 2001
after a drought cut output from dams. Thermal capacity has more
than doubled since then, according to JPMorgan’s Salas.  “The situation is delicate,” Leite said. “The cash
situation is a real problem. Rationing is a future problem.”  Government ‘Tranquility’  Even with record prices,  spot market  sales may not make
much of a difference in Cesp’s operating results, said Felipe Rocha, an analyst at Omar Camargo Investimentos.  “Revenue could increase, yes, because the price is
higher,’” he said in a telephone interview from Curitiba,
Brazil. Still, “the company might not have as much excess
capacity as it had in the past,” as it also deals with falling
hydro output, he said.  Rocha estimates the spot market accounted for only about 6
percent of Cesp’s revenue in the third quarter.  The government expects to be able to avoid rationing this
year, Mauricio Tolmasquim, head of the state energy planning and
research agency, said this week. A meeting of energy officials
yesterday confirmed “our tranquility that the country has a
firm energy inventory, security and is in conditions to fulfill
every need,” Energy Minister Edison Lobao told reporters.  Brazil probably won’t get enough rain to return dam levels
to normal by the end of the wet season in March, said Marco
Antonio dos Santos, a weather forecaster at Somar Meteorologia.  “We are having a regular summer, but the reservoirs need
pouring rains to go back to normal levels,” he said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “The levels are far from
comfortable and I fear for the rest of the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Buenos Aires  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  