-- Chamber President Donohue Says Default Would Be ‘Mistake’
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-01-10T21:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/chamber-president-donohue-says-default-would-be-mistake-.html
Defaulting on  U.S. debt  would be a
“mistake” and lawmakers shouldn’t use the borrowing limit as
leverage to force needed government spending cuts, said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.  “It would be a mistake to default on the debt” because
doing so would lead to “so many unforeseen circumstances that
that would be a bad thing to do,” Donohue said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for “Capitol Gains,”
which airs Jan. 13.  The U.S. reached the statutory borrowing limit on Dec. 31,
and the Treasury Department is using what it terms
“extraordinary” measures to finance the government. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimates those steps will be
exhausted by mid-February.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an  Ohio Republican , has
insisted that any increase in the $16.4 trillion borrowing limit
be accompanied by a dollar-for-dollar cut in new government
spending. President  Barack Obama  said it’s the responsibility of
Congress to raise the debt limit and he won’t negotiate with
Republicans over their demands for conditions for acting, as he
did in 2011.  Their positions create the prospect for a standstill
similar to the one a year-and-a-half ago in which a last-minute
accord wasn’t enough to prevent a downgrade of the nation’s
credit rating by  Standard & Poor’s .  ‘Expanded Debt’  The August 2011 deal produced legislation for $2.1 trillion
in spending cuts over 10 years. As a result “we got $2.1
trillion of expanded  debt ,” Donahue said. “Now we’re facing a
fundamental reality” that lawmakers and Obama “just have to
turn down the rate of growth” in spending.  Last week, Congress voted to postpone for two months the
start of the automatic spending cuts, known as sequestration,
that was agreed to in 2011.  Concern about  government spending  and the insolvency of
Medicare -- projected by the program’s trustees to occur in 2024
-- should be enough to motivate action by Congress and the
president on deeper cuts, Donahue said.  “We shouldn’t use, we shouldn’t have to use the debt
ceiling or sequestration or other issues to do it,” he said.  The chamber executive said he was concerned that “we get
everybody to simply look at the numbers and understand reality”
because “nobody up there, nobody in the White House, nobody
wants to cut spending.”  Chamber Spending  While the chamber, the largest U.S. business lobby, doesn’t
have to disclose all of its spending during the 2012 campaign,
it spent at least $36 million, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics. In most cases, the chamber backed
Republican candidates.  Although Obama has insisted on more revenue as a condition
for further spending cuts, Donohue said “there’s not enough
money with wealthy people in this country” to solve the
nation’s fiscal problems.  Donahue said the increase in tax rates in individual income
of more than $400,000 that Congress approved last week is
“affecting a huge number of small and medium-sized businesses”
whose “taxes have really gone up.”  Commenting on the planned debate this year in Congress on
simplifying the  tax code , he said, “If there’s no spending fix,
it’s going to be very hard to get a tax thing that provides any
revenue.”  He didn’t rule out supporting an overhaul of the tax system
that raises more revenue. Still, finding more revenue would be
difficult because “we’ve already gotten rid of most of the
deductions” taken by the highest earners, he said.  Donohue called Jack Lew, the White House chief of staff
whom Obama nominated today to be the next  Treasury secretary , a
“tough guy.”  He added: “But a tough guy is easier to negotiate with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  