-- Chavez Allies Gather as Venezuela Leader Too Ill for Oath
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2013-01-10T23:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/chavez-allies-gather-as-venezuela-leader-too-ill-for-oath.html
Tens of thousands of Venezuelans
took a symbolic oath in Caracas in place of President  Hugo Chavez , whose battle with cancer prevented him from attending
his own inauguration to a third six-year term today.  Representatives from 27 countries, including Bolivian
President  Evo Morales ,  Nicaragua ’s Daniel Ortega and  Paraguay ’s
Fernando Lugo attended a government-organized rally in Caracas
to express solidarity with the socialist leader, who is
struggling to recover from his fourth cancer-related surgery
last month in Havana. Other allies, including the presidents of
Argentina and  Ecuador , sent their foreign ministers.  The Supreme Court yesterday endorsed delaying Chavez’s
swearing-in, saying that any such ceremony is a mere formality.
The ruling means Chavez’s handpicked successor, Vice President
 Nicolas Maduro , will continue to run affairs in  South America ’s
biggest oil exporter for the foreseeable future.  While reaffirming Chavez’s uncontested leadership, Maduro
also signaled he could take on new roles in government.  “Today as vice-president, minister, lawmaker, tomorrow
whatever needs to be done,” Maduro, 50, told a crowd that
stretched for at least a dozen street blocks from Miraflores
presidential palace. “Whatever we need to do, it will always be
subordinated to his orders.”  Protest March  Opposition leaders said they are planning a protest march
Jan. 23 over what they consider a violation of Venezuela’s
constitution.  “The magistrates of the  Supreme Court  made a decision that
resolves a problem for the governing party,” Henrique Capriles Radonski, who lost to Chavez by 11 percentage points in October,
said yesterday in Caracas. “But the ruling doesn’t clear up the
uncertainty that exists in the country.”  Many supporters at the rally maintained high hopes the
self-declared socialist will recover from a lung infection
following his fourth cancer operation to retake the reins of
power.  “We’ll wait for the comandante as long as is takes for him
to come back,” said Valdimir Uribe, a 54-year-old health
worker. “We know he’s sick but I’m sure he’ll be back.”  The rally spilled into side streets with spontaneous
dancing to salsa music as jet fighters roared overhead - a sign
of unity between the military and civil society, Maduro later
said. Beauty queen Ivian Sarcos, who was crowned Miss World in
2011, stirred government supporters to sing along to a recording
of Chavez belting out the national anthem.  Uruguayan President Jose Mujica struck a more somber tone.
“There’s a man who’s in your hearts. But if tomorrow he isn’t:
unity, peace and work,” he said.  Bonds Rally  Venezuelan bonds gained for the first time in five days.
The yield on the dollar bonds due 2027 fell 8 basis points or
0.08 percentage point to 9.20 percent. The price rose 0.66 cent
to 100.39 cents on a dollar, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Venezuelan bonds have rallied 46 percent over the
past year as investors boosted bets the Chavez’s battle with
cancer will lead to a leadership change.  The court did not specify in its ruling when, where or how
Chavez should be sworn in, fueling speculation that justices
could even fly to  Havana  to administer the oath at the
president’s beside.  Foreign Soil  “It’s absurd, but the ruling opens the possibility” of
Chavez being sworn-in on foreign soil, Jorge Pabon, a
constitutional lawyer and former dean of the law school at the
Central University of Venezuela, said in a phone interview.  Maduro led the crowd in a symbolic oath, pledging loyalty
to Chavez and the constitution, as thousands clutched pocket-
sized copies of the nation’s charter whose rewriting Chavez
instigated in 1999 after first gaining power.  While Caribbean nations that receive subsidized Venezuelan
oil and members of Chavez’s anti-American Bolivarian Alliance
are backing the government,  Brazil  -- the region’s biggest
diplomatic power -- stayed away from the festivities. The U.S.
State Department yesterday reiterated its view that Venezuelans
must resolve their political crisis in a fair and transparent
manner.  Chavez’s fragile health remains the main driver of
political events in  Venezuela . The former paratrooper hasn’t
been seen or heard from since traveling to Cuba a month ago.
Information Minister Ernesto Villegas said this week that his
condition is stable after the government reported he had trouble
breathing infection. He didn’t provide additional details.  Showcasing Maduro  Today’s event also sought to provide a boost to Maduro, who
is seeking to consolidate support behind an eventual
presidential candidacy should Chavez resign or die, either of
which scenarios would trigger an election in 30 days. Chavez has
endorsed Maduro as his successor.  Chavez’s longtime foreign minister has appeared several
times a day on state television in recent weeks, ordering the
national guard to seize producers it says are hoarding food
supplies and promising to give “dolores,” the Spanish word for
pain, not “dollars” to “bourgeoisie” businesses he accuses
of trying to sabotage the economy.  The government has also stepped up attacks on the media.
Yesterday it ordered Globovision to stop airing short segments
on the constitution while it decides whether to fine the
television network for spreading alarm among the population.  “Maduro is trying to be a clone of Chavez,” said Vicente
Leon, director of Caracas-based polling company Datanalisis.
“The problem is there’s no clone that can replicate what people
feel for Chavez.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  