-- Chevron Strikes Optimistic Note for Quarterly Earnings
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2013-01-11T21:10:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/chevron-sees-profit-notably-higher-than-third-quarter.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) ’s forecast for
“notably higher” quarterly profit bodes well for competing
international energy producers also grappling with oil-
production and refining challenges.  Chevron’s fourth-quarter earnings exceeded the third
quarter on higher  oil prices  and better performance from its
refining business, according to an interim results statement
from the  San Ramon , California-based company yesterday.
Increased sales of crude from  storage tanks  and pipeline
terminals and a $1.4 billion gain from a gas-field swap in
Australia also contributed, Chevron said.  The outline given by the second-largest U.S. oil producer
by market value hints at a bright succession of earnings reports
when the world’s biggest publicly traded energy producers begin
releasing results in coming weeks, said Brian Youngberg, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St. Louis . Chevron is scheduled
to report full quarterly results on Feb. 1, as is  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) , the largest U.S. energy company.  “Chevron’s results certainly provide an optimistic preview
of what its peers in the integrated energy sector have in
store,” Youngberg said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“All these companies are subject to the same general price
realizations and market pressures, so they tend to move in the
same general direction over time.”  Hefty fourth-quarter gains still may not lift the oil
industry to the heights attained prior to the global financial
collapse in 2008, when Brent crude prices touched a record
$147.50 a barrel and Exxon raked in full-year profit of $45.2
billion, or the equivalent of $5.15 million an hour.  Exxon Forecast  Exxon, based in Irving, Texas, is expected to report net
income of $43.8 billion for 2012, according to the average of
six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron trades at 9 times estimated 2013 earnings, above
the 8.6 average ratio of a 15-member peer group of  oil companies 
tracked by Bloomberg. Exxon’s price-earnings ratio is 11, an
indication it may have better-than-average earnings growth.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s biggest energy company by
market value, is scheduled to announce fourth-quarter results on
Jan. 31.  BP Plc (BP/) ’s release is scheduled for Feb. 5.  Chevron rose 1.1 percent to $111.73 at the close in New
York. Chevron gained 1.6 percent in 2012, the smallest annual
increase since 2008, when the stock tumbled 21 percent.  Barrel Price  Chevron received an average of $100.06 a barrel for crude
produced outside the U.S. during the October-to-December period,
a 1.9 percent increase from the preceding quarter, according to
the statement. Non-U.S. oil production accounts for about 75
percent of the company’s crude output.  The international “crude price environment is very robust
and that’s playing itself out favorably for producers,”  Gianna Bern , founder of Brookshire Advisory & Research Inc. in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Chevron said its “notably higher” fourth-quarter results
were aided by a gain from the exchange of a stake in the Browse
gas fields in Australia for  Shell (RDSA) ’s interests in the Clio and
Acme fields. The swap agreement also included a $450 million
cash payment to Chevron, according to an August statement.  The company also saw better refining results compared with
the third quarter, even as the industry experiences declining
margins for turning oil into gasoline and other fuels.  Chevron pumped the equivalent of 2.662 million barrels of
oil a day in October and November, compared with a daily average
rate of 2.641 million during the full fourth quarter of 2011,
according to the statement. If the trend held throughout the
final month of the year, Chevron will have halted its longest
production slide since 2007-2008.  Crude Output  Crude output, the most valuable portion of the company’s
production stream, dropped to 1.802 million barrels a day during
October and November from 1.816 million during the full fourth
quarter of 2011.  Chevron’s focus on oil and liquefied natural gas contracts
tied to crude prices means the company is less-exposed to weak
North American gas markets hurt by a supply glut from shale
formations, Bern said.  Chevron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John S. Watson
said last month he plans to spend $36.7 billion this year to
explore for crude, build natural gas export terminals and
upgrade oil refineries. The company expects to reach output of
3.3 million barrels a day in 2017. Watson is scheduled to update
analysts and investors on the company’s long-term exploration
and development goals on March 12 in a day-long briefing in  New
York .  Kitimat Investment  Chevron announced plans in December to buy a 50 percent
stake in the proposed Kitimat gas export terminal on Canada’s
western coast from  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  EOG Resources Inc. (EOG)  to
capitalize on rising Asian demand for the fuel. Chevron also
acquired stakes in British Columbia gas fields and a pipeline
system that would bring the fuel to the terminal. Terms of the
agreements weren’t disclosed.  That same month, Chevron boosted the cost estimate for its
Gorgon liquefied natural gas project in Australia by 21 percent
to A$52 billion ($55 billion) last month, citing local currency
fluctuations and escalating labor expenses. The increased
estimate still was less than the $60 billion or more anticipated
by analysts such as  Paul Cheng  of Barclays Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  