-- China Regulator Asks Ping An for Information on HSBC Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T08:39:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/china-regulator-asks-ping-an-for-more-information-on-stake-sale.html
China’s insurance regulator asked
 Ping An Insurance (Group) Co. (2318)  for more information about  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ’s proposed $9.4 billion sale of a stake in the
country’s second-largest insurer.  The China Insurance Regulatory Commission has conducted a
preliminary review of the application, the watchdog said in an
e-mailed statement today. It didn’t give any details about the
information requested.  The sale to Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen
Pokphand Group Co. is facing speculation that regulators may
reject the deal, Mancy Sun and Ning Ma, analysts at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a note.  China Development Bank , which
agreed to fund part of the purchase, canceled its loans because
of problems with the rest of the financing, Caixin has reported.  “The regulator’s statement should have a positive impact
on Ping An shares, as it reads like the deal can still possibly
go through,” said Qiu Peng, a Shanghai-based investment manager
at Western Securities Co. “While the success or failure of the
deal has little impact on Ping An’s operations, an early
solution will remove some uncertainty about a key shareholder.”  Shares in Ping An  fell 1.4 percent to HK$67.80 at the close
of Hong Kong trading today, after gaining as much as 1.3
percent. HSBC gained 0.6 percent, the same as the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  Two Stages  HSBC said Dec. 5 it agreed to sell its 15.6 percent holding
in Ping An to four subsidiaries of CP Group in two phases. The
first stage, comprising shares valued at about HK$15 billion
($1.9 billion), was scheduled for Dec. 7. The sale of the
remaining shares requires approval from CIRC by Feb. 1, or an
extension of the accord.  “If the deal can’t get CIRC approval by then or if the
deadline is extended, the chance of it going through is very
slim,” Li Wenbing, a Beijing-based analyst at BoCom
International, said by telephone.  Gareth Hewett, a spokesman for HSBC in Hong Kong, declined
to comment on the CIRC statement. The transaction complies with
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange’s regulations and will be financed
by four units of Charoen Group, the Thai company’s Assistant
Vice President Suthana Hongthong said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  