-- China Auto Group Says Sales in 2013 May Reach 20 Million
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T04:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/china-2013-auto-sales-may-reach-20-million-caam-official-says.html
China  vehicle sales, including those
of cars and buses, may rise about 5 percent this year and reach
20 million units, spurred by a rebound in economic growth and
rising incomes, an official said.  Total auto sales, which includes passenger and commercial
vehicles, rose “four to five percent” in 2012 to about 19
million units, Ye Shengji, deputy secretary general of the
state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers, said
in an interview today, citing his personal opinion. Competition
will probably intensify, with foreign automakers likely to
increase incentives to gain market share, he said.  “China’s auto sales will retain stable growth along with
the economy,” said Ye, who spoke at a forum in Hainan, China,
today. “Local automakers will face bigger challenges on
maintaining and growing their market share.”  While China’s auto industry will continue to expand to a
record this year, the projected pace of growth has slowed to
about a quarter of the average pace in the past 14 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will vie
with  General Motors Co. (GM)  for the lead among foreign automakers in
a market that IHS Automotive and Macquarie Group Ltd. project
will eclipse the combined sales of the U.S.,  Germany  and  Japan 
by 2015.  “No automakers can afford to fail here,” said Vivien Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Oriental Patron Holdings.
“Automakers from luxury carmakers to compact-car makers will
have to fight more fiercely this year with more attractive
products and pricing.”  China Sales  VW, whose luxury Audi sedans are popular with Chinese
bureaucrats, hasn’t held the lead in China since 2004 and will
probably sell 2.7 million vehicles in the country this year to
GM’s 2.65 million, helped by eight new or revamped models
including the Santana, Golf, Skoda Octavia and Audi Q3,
according to industry researcher JSC Automotive Consulting. GM’s
new offerings include the Cadillac XTS and three Opel models.  China should strive to become an “automotive superpower”
to maintain economic growth, by increasing investment in
research and encouraging official use of local brands, Dong Yang, secretary general of the auto association, said on his
blog this week.  Chinese automakers spend less than 2 percent of revenue on
research and development, or about half the global average,
according to Dong. The government should offer incentives to
encourage research and adopt local brands for official use, he
said.  The automobile association is scheduled to release the
December and full-year sales figures tomorrow.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  