-- China’s Yuan Loans Trail Estimates
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T01:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/china-december-new-yuan-loans-and-money-supply-trail-estimates.html
China’s new local-currency loans
fell more than forecast last month while a broader measure of
 financing  surged 28 percent, highlighting the economic rebound’s
increasing dependence on non-bank credit that may add risks.  Loans were 454.3 billion  yuan  ($73 billion), according to
People’s Bank of China data today, compared with the median
estimate of 550 billion yuan in a Bloomberg News  survey  of 37
analysts and last year’s 640.5 billion yuan. Aggregate financing
of 1.63 trillion yuan, which includes bank and non-bank lending,
was up from 1.27 trillion yuan a year earlier.  The drop in bank loans may restrain a recovery in the
world’s second-largest economy from a seven-quarter  growth 
slowdown, while increasing use of less-regulated, higher-return
shadow-banking products underscores a shift that the
International Monetary Fund has said poses “new challenges to
financial stability.”  “Negative headlines will weigh on sentiment,” even as the
pickup in aggregate financing is “boding well for growth,”
said Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist at Credit Agricole CIB
in Hong Kong.  The central bank released the data ahead of trade figures
due today from the customs administration and tomorrow’s
 inflation  report from the statistics bureau.  China’s benchmark stock gauge, the Shanghai Composite  Index (SHCOMP) ,
fell 0.1 percent as of 9:35 a.m. local time. It had gained 16
percent since an almost four-year low on Dec. 3 on signs the
economy is picking up.  Money Supply  M2  money supply  rose 13.8 percent in December from a year
earlier, the PBOC said, compared with the median analyst
estimate of 14 percent.  China’s foreign-exchange  reserves , the world’s largest,
rose the least since 2003 last year, today’s data showed. The
holdings increased $128 billion to $3.31 trillion at the end of
December from $3.29 trillion three months earlier and $3.18
trillion at the end of 2011. The median estimate of seven
economists was for reserves of $3.32 trillion.  Local-currency loans as a share of funding fell to a record
low last year, highlighting the growth of alternative financing
channels that have prompted warnings of rising credit risks. New
yuan bank lending was 8.2 trillion yuan in 2012, accounting for
a 52 percent share of the 15.8 trillion yuan aggregate financing,
according to today’s preliminary PBOC figures, the least in
statistics dating to 2002, when bank loans had a 91.9 percent
share.  The PBOC in April 2011 started providing data on aggregate
financing, which includes bank and non-bank lending, on a trial
basis as part of the release on loan and money-supply statistics.  Aggregate financing, also called total social financing,
includes banks’ yuan loans and six other categories: foreign-
currency loans, entrusted loans, trust loans, bankers’
acceptance bills, corporate bonds and non-financial stock sales.  Corporate bond sales rose 65 percent last year to 2.25
trillion yuan, while trust loans surged more than sixfold to
1.29 trillion yuan, the PBOC data showed.  --Scott Lanman and Nerys Avery. Editors: Scott Lanman, John Liu  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Scott Lanman in Beijing at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  