-- China’s One-Child Policy Yields Adults Fearing Risk
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-11T06:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/china-s-one-child-policy-yields-adults-fearing-risk.html
China ’s one-child policy has
produced adults that tend to have personality traits unsuited
for starting businesses or managing companies, according to a
study that adds to economic concerns surrounding the rule.  Using surveys of 421 men and women in Beijing and testing
their skills in economic games, researchers in  Australia  found
those born after the 1979 policy were more pessimistic, nervous,
less conscientious, less competitive and more risk averse. They
also found them to be 23 percent less prone to choose an
occupation that entails business risk, such as becoming a
stockbroker, entrepreneur or private firm manager.  The study, published yesterday in the journal  Science , adds
a new twist to evidence suggesting that China’s policy to limit
 population growth  is harming its economy. Research has already
tied the rule to worker shortages.  Risk aversion  may negatively
affect the economy if it leads to fewer people starting
businesses in their communities, said study author  Lisa Cameron .  “Many people have talked about China’s difficulties with
its little emperors,” said Cameron, head of Monash University’s
Centre for Development Economics in  Melbourne , using a term to
denote the  excessive attention  only-children seem to get from
their parents. “There wasn’t a rigorous scientific study on the
behavioral impact of the policy before.”  China started the policy to curb a population growing 1.4
percent a year and to promote prosperity. Some exceptions to the
policy are allowed, such as permitting rural families to have a
second child if the first is a girl, while those who can afford
to pay a fine can have a second or third baby. In the nation of
 1.35 billion people , about 100 million families have just  one
child , according to the government.  Trust Game  Study participants, including those born before and after
the policy was instituted in 1979, took part in games including
one that measures how much they trust one another and are
themselves trustworthy. A player decides how much of a 100  yuan 
($16) endowment to send a game partner, who then decides how
much to give back, with each particpants’s potential returns
higher the more money they gave up.  Only-child individuals sent on average 16 percentage points
less of the endowment to the other player and returned 11
percentage points less of what they received. The participants
were recruited so that about a quarter of the sample pool was
each drawn from people born in 1975, 1978, 1980, and 1983.  Trust “is an important component of social capital and an
important basis for all sorts of commercial transactions and
interactions,” said Cameron.  Unthinkable  Behavior in economic games correlates with the way people
act outside the experimental setting, the researchers said, with
implications for the wider society. They cited previous studies
that showed Chinese farmers that took more risk in experimental
games were more inclined to adopt  new technologies  and use  less
pesticide , while borrowers in  Peru  found more trustworthy in
trust games had a greater likelihood of  repaying loans .  Xin Meng , a co-author of the study who grew up in Beijing
and left China in 1988, said she detects a different behavioral
attitude among the only-child population compared with the
previous generation. A 2011 incident where a two-year-old girl
in southern China died after she was struck by two vans and
ignored by 18 passersby caused a furor, with domestic media and
Internet users criticizing Chinese society for a lack of
morality.  “An incident like this is just unthinkable 20 years ago,”
said Meng, a professor of economics at the  Australian National
University  in Canberra. “If you’ve lived in the Chinese society
for a long time, you can sense the difference as people become
more individualistic.”  Other Consequences  Research has also shown there may be surprising health
consequences to the one-child rule by exacerbating China’s
diabetes epidemic.  The effect of the policy on the behavior of people born
long after the policy’s introduction may be magnified as later
groups will have grown up with very limited extended family and
in a society dominated by only children, the authors wrote.  “The cohort we studied were born just after the policy
started and their parents would have many siblings with their
own children, so they grow up with a lot of cousins,” Meng
said. “If the policy does not change there will be
ramifications, not just from behavioral issues, but also the
shrinking labor force supply due to the aging population.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  