-- Citi, BofA Said to Host Chidambaram Roadshow
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-01-10T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/citi-bofa-said-to-host-chidambaram-roadshow-to-aid-india-budget.html
Indian Finance Minister Palaniappan
Chidambaram is planning a tour of Asia and Europe aimed at
wooing investors to the nation, as a record current-account
deficit threatens growth, four people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Chidambaram plans to hold meetings in  Singapore , Hong Kong,
 Frankfurt  and  London  this month, the people said, asking not to
be identified before an announcement. The meetings have been
arranged by banks including  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , according to the people.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh overhauled India’s economic
policies in September to lure more foreign investment, steady
the currency and lower the odds of a credit-rating downgrade to
so-called junk status. Moderating investment and tumbling
exports have sapped growth in Asia’s third largest economy.  “The priority seems to sustain the positive sentiment,
which had taken a huge beating over the last one year,” said
Arun Singh, an economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information
Services  India  Pvt. in Mumbai. “India is faced with a worrisome
situation with record high deficits and elevated inflation and
it calls for corrective steps urgently.”  The trip comes about six months after government and
central bank officials visited countries from the U.S. to  Russia 
to attract foreign asset managers and high-net-worth investors.
Chidambaram will meet with institutional investors as well as
executives of companies, one of the people said.  He is scheduled to be in Hong Kong on Jan. 22 and Singapore
a day later, three of the people said. Chidambaram will then
meet investors in Frankfurt on Jan. 28 and in London on Jan. 29,
one person said.  Shares Jump  James Griffiths, spokesman for Citigroup, Paul Scanlon of
Bank of America, Christine Chan of BNP Paribas and India’s
finance ministry declined to comment on Chidambaram’s tour.
Michael West at Deutsche Bank didn’t respond to an e-mail.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex jumped 26 percent
in 2012, its biggest annual gain since 2009, as Singh opened the
economy to more foreign investments in the past four months. The
steps prompted offshore funds to invest a net $24.5 billion into
domestic shares last year, the highest among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg.  The government is likely to miss its fiscal deficit target
and India may lose its investment-grade status in the next 12 to
24 months, Andrew Colquhoun, Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific sovereigns at Fitch Ratings, said Jan. 8.  Borrowing Costs  Gross domestic product  will rise as little as 5.7 percent
in the fiscal year through March, the weakest pace in a decade,
according to the finance ministry.  Reserve Bank of India 
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has left borrowing costs at 8 percent
since a 50 basis-point cut in April 2012, resisting
Chidambaram’s calls for a further reduction to bolster growth.  Chidambaram, who has pledged to contain the fiscal deficit
at 5.3 percent of GDP in 2012-2013, down from 5.8 percent last
year, is due to present the budget next month.  The current-account shortfall swelled to $22.3 billion in
the quarter ended Sept. 30, the widest in RBI data starting
1949. Price gains will limit Subbarao to a 25 basis-point rate
cut on Jan. 29, when he reviews policy next, according to eight
of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  