-- Citigroup Extends Yen-Decline Forecast on Abe Stimulus
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-01-10T19:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/citigroup-extends-yen-decline-forecast-as-abe-pushes-stimulus.html
The yen will weaken more than
previously forecast versus the dollar this quarter as Japanese
Prime Minister Shinzo Abe pushes for drastic monetary stimulus,
according to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Japan’s currency may fall to 90 yen per dollar at the end
of March, compared with a previous forecast of 85 to 87, said
Citigroup analysts led by Osamu Takashima in  Tokyo . The yen
decline may extend to 95, the lowest level since August 2009,
after already surpassing the 87 level Citigroup had previously
targeted for spring, Takashima said in the report.  “Investors now think that the current low interest rates
are going to be in place for a long time,” Steven Englander,
head of Group of 10 currency strategy at Citigroup in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “The rate differentials are
becoming more of a signal as to where the attractive investments
are, and Japanese investors are beginning to respond to that by
selling the yen.”  The yen, which is highly correlated with the  difference 
between yields on U.S. and Japanese sovereign debt, previously
strengthened to a level not supported by the interest-rate
differential, Takashima wrote today in a note to clients.
Treasury two-year notes yield 0.24 percent, while  Japan ’s two-
year yields 0.10 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Yen Quote  The yen fell 0.3 percent to 88.15 per dollar at 2:06 p.m.
in New York after earlier declining as much as 0.5 percent. The
currency slipped to its lowest level since July 2010 versus the
greenback on Jan. 4.  Morgan Stanley also lowered its first-quarter yen outlook
to 95 per dollar from 84. The firm projected the Japanese
currency will fall to 105 by the end of 2014, weaker than its
previous forecast of 90.  Federal Reserve minutes released Jan. 3 signaled the
central bank will probably end its $85 billion monthly bond
purchases sometime in 2013, even after previously saying it
would hold down interest rates until mid-2015. This may
influence investors looking at interest-rate differentials,
Takashima said.  “You’re beginning to see signs that the rest of the world
is stabilizing a little bit in a way that would’ve been
unthinkable three months ago,” Citigroup’s Englander said.
“Investors have adjusted their expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  