-- Clegg Says Cameron’s Tories Can’t Be Trusted on Society
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2013-01-10T15:52:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/clegg-says-cameron-s-tories-can-t-be-trusted-on-society.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron’s
Conservative Party “can’t be trusted with society,” his
deputy, Nick Clegg, said as he drew battle lines for the 2015
general election.  The vote, which will see Clegg’s Liberal Democrats battling
for seats against their Tory coalition partners as well as the
opposition Labour Party, will be a “scarcity” election based
on priorities for spending cuts, Clegg told reporters at a lunch
in  London  today. All parties will have to accept that benefits
for wealthy retirees will have to be trimmed, he said.  “It’s not going to be frothy and happy-go-lucky,” Clegg
said. “We’re going to get a somber, gritty weighing-up of the
options: a Labour Party you can’t trust with your money, a
Conservative Party you can’t trust with society or the Liberal
Democrats who you can trust with both.”  Clegg, whose party trails in opinion polls with around 9
percent support, is seeking to open dividing lines between the
Liberal Democrats and Tories in a bid to gain ground lost since
they formed a government in 2010 after inconclusive elections.
As the party draws up policy, it’s working to avoid any repeat
of the reversal of its pledge not to raise university tuition
fees, a step that has cost it support since 2010, Clegg said.  “We think we are uniquely placed to both show toughness on
the economy and compassion in society,” Clegg said. “We need
to stress-test the deliverability of our policies like never
before. We’re not going to make that mistake again.”  Fuel Payments  Benefits for retirees, including free travel passes and
winter-fuel payments, will have to be restricted to those in the
most need after 2015, Clegg said. Cameron has made maintaining
those a hallmark of Tory policy in this Parliament.  “Any political party that goes into the next election
pledging not to touch a hair on the head of benefits for the
most affluent pensioners will be found out very quickly,” Clegg
said. “The idea that you exempt millionaire and
multimillionaire pensioners is not sustainable.”  Clegg, who praised a Jan. 8 speech on spending priorities
by David Miliband, the brother of Labour leader Ed Miliband,
said he’d be willing to work with whichever party wins the
largest share of seats in the House of Commons after the
election if another coalition is needed in 2015.  “You just deal with the cards dealt to you by the British
people,” Clegg said. “The party that gets the biggest thumbs-
up from the British people has the obvious democratic right to
try to create a government first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  