-- Clegg Takes Calls From U.K. Voters, Admits He Owns Onesie
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-10T12:36:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/clegg-takes-calls-from-u-k-voters-admits-he-owns-onesie.html
Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg ,
making radio history today by becoming the most senior British
politician to submit himself to a regular phone-in, was
confronted by voters angry at his record.  Clegg, who heads the Liberal Democrats, the junior partner
in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Conservative-led coalition,
was forced to defend government policies including public-
spending cuts. He wound up his half-hour session by admitting he
owns a “big green onesie” -- an all-in-one garment favored by
television viewers for its warmth.  On the first of his weekly shows on London’s LBC radio,
Clegg was confronted by a former Liberal Democrat county-council
member identified only as John from Woking, southwest of London,
who told Clegg he had “torn up” his party membership card and
asked how the deputy premier could reconcile the party’s values
with “this government’s attacks on the poorest.”  “I am immensely proud that, facing the biggest crisis this
country has seen in a generation, the  Liberal Democrats  took a
big, collective and brave decision -- at some political cost --
to say we are going to step up to the plate and fix this mess
while also trying to make society fairer,” Clegg told him,
citing the U.K.’s deficit, which stood at a record when the
coalition came to power.  He asked John to give the party credit for measures like
raising the tax threshold on lower incomes and helping poor
children.  Tuition Fees  In other questions Clegg was challenged over benefit cuts,
international aid, job losses in the military and the rise in
university tuition fees. He was also asked whether he thought it
was right for U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s administration to
signal that it wants Britain to remain a strong voice in the
European Union, from which some Tory lawmakers want to withdraw.  “They are perfectly entitled to say ’Look, if you’re
interested in the American perspective, we think Britain stands
tall in the world if you stand tall in your own neighborhood,”’
Clegg said.  The last question was from Harry from Sheffield -- Clegg’s
parliamentary district -- who asked if the deputy premier had
ever worn a onesie.  “I was actually given a big green onesie in Sheffield,
which I have kept in its packaging, but I haven’t worn it yet,”
Clegg said.  Asked by the LBC radio host, Nick Ferrari, whether he
would be willing to wear it in public for charity, Clegg
replied, laughing: “It’s almost certainly something I would do
in the privacy of my own home.”  Clegg’s office said the garment was an Incredible Hulk one-
piece, won by Clegg at a Liberal Democrat charity dinner. It was
part of a hamper donated by a group of university students
affiliated to the party that also contained alcohol and instant
noodles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  