-- Cocoa Whipsawed as NYSE Liffe Changes Data on Speculative Trades
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-01-10T14:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/cocoa-whipsawed-as-nyse-liffe-changes-data-on-speculative-trades.html
Cocoa prices whipsawed this week
after NYSE Liffe, the  London  unit of the world’s largest stock
exchange operator, amended data on traders’ speculative
positions and posted a notice about the change on its website a
day later.  Futures rose the most in almost a month Jan. 7 as the
bourse said speculators cut bets on higher prices by 31 percent
in the week ended Dec. 31. Cocoa retreated by about the same
amount the following day when some traders noticed NYSE Liffe
had changed its data for the week ended Dec. 24, which meant the
drop in speculative positions was now 12 percent. A statement
about the change was issued on the exchange’s website yesterday.  “When we have data that is so closely scrutinized, the
market has to be assured that what is published is correct,”
said Justin Grandison, head of cocoa brokerage at ABN Amro
Markets (U.K.) Ltd. “The failure of the exchange to notify all
members at once may have given some traders an advantage.”  NYSE Liffe started publishing the data in October 2011,
after a group of 16 cocoa consumers said in a joint letter to
the bourse in 2010 that it would improve transparency. Some
traders might favor ICE Futures U.S. instead, where the data
were already being reported by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission, they said.  “The Commitment of Traders report for close of business
Dec. 24, 2012 for cocoa has been recalculated and republished,”
NYSE Liffe said in its notice. “This was due to a technical
issue that occurred during the calculation of the original
figures. The exchange apologizes for any inconvenience caused.”  Long Position  Cocoa closed up 1.3 percent at 1,441 pounds a metric ton on
Jan. 7 and retreated 1.4 percent to 1,421 pounds the following
day. The initial report on the decline in the so-called  net-long 
position spurred the rally and the revision to the data had the
opposite effect, London-based Grandison said. Adaora Anunoby, a
spokeswoman for NYSE Liffe in London, declined to comment.  “If you didn’t realize that the data had been revised, you
were at a disadvantage,” said  Jonathan Parkman , the co-head of
agriculture at Marex Spectron Group in London. “They could have
handled the issue better as there is no doubt in my mind that
people have traded in a different way than they would have done
if the data had been correct.”  The London cocoa futures market is valued at 3.24 billion
pounds ($5.2 billion) based on contracts outstanding, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We had a short position in the market and our model got
stopped and the short was initiated again” on Jan. 8, said Nick
Gentile, the vice president of Atlantic Capital Advisors LLC 
in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey . “We probably wouldn’t have gotten
stopped out of the position if the data was correct.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc., the 12-year-old energy and
commodity futures bourse, agreed to buy NYSE Euronext, NYSE
Liffe’s parent company, for $8.2 billion in cash and stock last
month. NYSE Euronext owns the  New York  Stock Exchange, stock
markets in Paris, Brussels, Lisbon, Amsterdam and  Europe ’s
second-largest derivatives bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  