-- Colombia Traders Foresee Region’s Lowest Benchmark: Andes Credit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2013-01-10T02:26:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/colombia-traders-foresee-region-s-lowest-benchmark-andes-credit.html
Traders are increasing bets that
 Colombia  will reduce interest rates this month to the lowest in
 Latin America , after some policy makers voted for bigger cuts in
December and the inflation rate fell to a two-year low.  The yield on three-month  interest-rate swaps  has fallen 20
basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 3.99 percent, since
the bank last cut borrowing costs on Dec. 21. That implies about
an 80 percent chance of another quarter-point reduction to 4
percent at the central bank’s January board meeting, according
to Catalina Silva, a fixed-income analyst at Cia. De
Profesionales de Bolsa in Bogota.  The bank has lowered  interest rates  at four of its last six
meetings as the economy grew in the third quarter at its weakest
pace since the aftermath of the global financial crisis in 2008.
With inflation below the 3 percent midpoint of the bank’s target
range since November, some policy makers said at the bank’s last
meeting that a half-point cut was needed.  The policy maker’s votes in favor of a bigger cut
“supports our forecast that even more rate cuts are to come,”
Juan David Ballen, an analyst at local brokerage Alianza Valores
SA, said in a telephone interview from Bogota. “It would be
prudent to take advantage of inflation being so low to keep
lowering rates.”  Ballen, the most-accurate forecaster of Colombian central
bank decisions in Bloomberg surveys, is predicting cuts of 0.25
percentage points at the bank’s January and February meetings.  Three-Way Split  The seven-member board was split three ways when it lowered
the benchmark  interest rate  on Dec. 21, a decision that
surprised the majority of analysts for the third time since
June. The policy makers who supported a bigger cut said that
“almost all indicators on the progress of the economy denote an
apparent deterioration.”  Only one of the seven-member board voted to hold rates, the
outcome forecast by a majority of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s 9.25 percent peso debt due in
May 2014 fell eight basis points to 4.33 percent this week, as
traders increased bets on rate cuts.  At 4.25 percent, Colombia and  Peru  currently have lowest
policy rates among major Latin American economies.  Chile  has a policy rate of 5 percent, while  Mexico ’s is 4.5
percent.  Brazil , the region’s biggest economy, has a 7.25
percent rate.  Slowing Growth  Colombia’s economy expanded 2.1 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, versus 6.5 percent in Peru and 5.7
percent in Chile.  Inflation slowed to 2.44 percent in December, lower than
all but one forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 22 analysts.
Measures of core inflation tracked by the central bank, which
exclude the most volatile prices, also fell last month.  Investors’ expectations for cost-of-living increases have
fallen to 2.5 percent from this year’s high of 4.1 percent in
February, based on the yield gap between inflation-linked bonds
and fixed-rate debt due in 2015.  “Inflation, the average of  core inflation  indicators and
most measures of inflation expectations are below 3 percent,”
policy makers said Dec. 21 in the statement accompanying their
rate cut. “The latest information suggests that this situation
will continue for some time.”  Colombia targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point. The central bank’s press office declined to
comment on its future rate moves in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Additional Cut’  Policy makers may wait for more data confirming the
slowdown before they cut again, according to Munir Jalil, the
chief economist at Citigroup Inc.’s Colombia unit.  “We see a central bank whose priority is the recovery of
economic activity,” Jalil said in telephone interview from
Bogota. “In the first quarter, we could see an additional cut,
though not necessarily in January.”  The peso climbed 0.1 percent to 1,768.73 per dollar at the
close yesterday in Bogota.  The cost to protect Colombian debt against non-payment for
five years was unchanged at 94 basis points yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or cash
equivalent if the issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  The extra yield investors demand to own Colombian
government dollar bonds instead of Treasuries widened one basis
point to 117 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Those who voted for the bigger cut will surely insist on
a lower rate in the next meeting,”  Andres Pardo , the head
analyst at Corp. Financiera Colombiana, said in a telephone
interview. “The issue will be if the members who were in the
majority last time will be persuaded that there’s room to cut
again. With inflation so low, it’s possible that a couple will
be swayed to cut.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  