-- Comic-Book Fan Site Wikia Turns Geeks’ Free Labor Into Profit
-- B y   D e v i n   L e o n a r d
-- 2013-01-10T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/comic-book-fan-site-wikia-turns-geeks-free-labor-into-profit.html
Nathan Elliott used to be just one
of the 130,000 fans who faithfully attend  Comic-Con
International , the annual geek culture convention in  San Diego .  He suited up as his favorite comic book characters and
waited in line for hours to get into panel discussions about
upcoming superhero movies. There were parties at night with
celebrities. Nobody invited Elliott. He didn’t care. It was
enough just to be surrounded by fellow nerds.  At last July’s Comic-Con, however, Elliott was a star. He
went through the VIP line, enjoyed free drinks, and had his
picture taken on the red carpet at a party at the Hard Rock Cafe
thrown by Wikia Inc., the user-generated website primarily
devoted to video games, comic books, and movies.  Wikia was created by  Wikipedia  co-founders  Jimmy Wales  and
Angela Beesley. Unlike Wikipedia, it’s a for-profit company.
Because Elliott is one of the site’s most prolific writers and
commenters, the San Francisco-based company had picked him to be
one of its 25 Wikia Stars, who recruit more visitors and
persuade entertainment companies to collaborate with them on
their Wikia fan sites.  Elliott, a nuclear physicist from  Albuquerque ,  New Mexico ,
was thrilled to be at the party.  “It’s way better than walking by and looking in,” he
says.  The campaign is part of Chief Executive Officer Craig Palmer’s effort to raise the profile of the seven-year-old
closely held company. Wikia is deepening its relationships with
studios such as  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. and Comcast
Corp.’s Universal, enabling it to give fans of “Batman” and
“The Hobbit” a first look at the franchises’ video games.  Amazon, Bessemer  In November the site had 19 million U.S. visitors, up 20
percent from the year before, according to  ComScore Inc. (SCOR) , and
 raised  about $10 million from a group led by Institutional
Venture Partners. Other investors include Bessemer Venture
Partners and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)   Wikia’s executives say the company, which makes money
selling advertising, has been profitable for three years. Palmer
says he would like to take Wikia public or sell it one day. To
do that, he needs to keep users like Elliott happy and active.  “The care and feeding of these Stars and exposing them is
a critical aspect of continuing to make Wikia great,” he says.  The site’s contributors are encouraged to go on at
Dostoyevskian lengths about their passions.  Human Torch  “The Wikia community is engaged in documenting things in
really excruciating detail,” says Wales, the company’s
chairman.  The Wikia DC Comics database has about 75,000 pages; its
 Marvel Comics  database has more than 102,000.  The Marvel and DC repositories were created in 2005 by
Jamie Hari, another Wikia Star who was feted at last year’s
Comic-Con. A tech support manager at a Waterloo, Ontario-based
 software company , Hari started the Marvel database with a page
about the superhero Rogue. From there, he and other users set
out to document every Marvel comic book dating to 1939, when the
Human Torch made his debut.  “It was like a second full-time job,” Hari says.  Wikia didn’t pay him, but stardom has its rewards: Hari
told his story of starting the database over a cheeseburger and
fries paid for by Wikia executives.  Elliott discovered the Marvel database in 2007 and became
its top contributor. The company says he has more than 100,000
“edits,” which range from correcting another user’s spelling
to creating a new page. Elliott estimates that he has written
500 pages about Spider-Man alone and has devoted as many as 40
hours a week to Wikia. He has since reduced his weekly
commitment to “5 or 10 hours.”  Marvel, DC  His wife, Tara, seated beside him at the convention dressed
as the telekinetic Phoenix from the “X-Men” comics, made it
clear that she thinks her husband sometimes overdoes it. And his
schedule is tighter now that the couple has 3-year-old twins.  Since Comic-Con, Hari has been trying to woo executives at
both Marvel and DC to help him enhance Wikia’s comic book-
related pages. In October, Elliott covered the  New York  Comic-
Con for the site. He has also been grooming the next generation
of contributors, and just enjoying the experience of being a
celebrity of sorts.  “I was very happy to hear that any of my work had been
even noticed, let alone appreciated,” he writes in an e-mail.  “My wife was very happy that all the hours I had put into
my passion actually had some value to it and wasn’t completely
wasted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Leonard in New York at 
 dleonard12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Cantor at 
 dcantor5@bloomberg.net  