-- Commodities Rise to Highest in 11 Weeks on China Demand Outlook
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-01-10T14:55:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/commodities-rise-to-highest-in-11-weeks-on-china-demand-outlook.html
Commodities rose to their highest in
more than 11 weeks, led by energy and metals, amid optimism that
an economic recovery in  China  will boost demand. Gold advanced
to a one-week high.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials gained
to the highest level since Oct. 22, as aluminum advanced as much
as 2 percent and crude climbed to the highest level in more than
three months. China’s exports jumped 14.1 percent last month,
compared with a 5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey. The nation is the world’s biggest user of industrial
metals and energy.  “From a broad commodity perspective, what is good is the
fact that China’s exports have picked up quite significantly in
December and well above expectations,” Walter de Wet, head of
commodities research at Standard Bank Plc, said by phone from
Johannesburg today. “There is no doubt that things are
stabilizing in China.”  Oil for February delivery gained as much as $1.60 to $94.70
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the most since Sept. 19.
Saudi Arabia cut crude production in December to a 19-month low,
according a Gulf official with knowledge of the kingdom’s energy
policy who asked not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  Aluminum for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange advanced for a fourth day, gaining 1.5 percent to
$2,105.50 a ton. Usage of the lightweight metal in China will
rise 11 percent this year, aided by stimulus spending, Alcoa
Inc., the biggest U.S. producer, said this week.  Gold advanced to a one-week high after European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi said economic weakness in the region
will continue, boosting speculation that policy makers will do
more to revive growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net :
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  