-- Consumer Comfort Falls as U.S. Payroll Tax Takes Hold: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-01-10T17:59:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/consumer-comfort-drops-as-americans-brace-for-payroll-tax-boost.html
Consumer confidence  waned last week
and firings unexpectedly climbed, the first sign that higher
U.S. payroll taxes will slow the economic expansion at the start
of this year.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 34.4 in
the seven days ended Jan. 6 from minus 31.8 the prior period,
the biggest one-week drop since August. Jobless claims increased
by 4,000 to 371,000 in the week ended Jan. 5, according to Labor
Department figures.  Paychecks are shrinking after Congress last week let the
tax that funds  Social Security  benefits revert to 6.2 percent
from 4.2 percent. That means Americans will have to rely on
increases in salaries to counter some of the lost income at the
same time the job market shows little sign of further progress
and the debate in Washington turns to federal spending cuts and
the debt.  “Consumers are coming to the realization that their take-
home pay is going to get smaller,” said Richard Yamarone, a
senior economist at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “That will
translate into weaker spending. I expect the economy will spin
its wheels for many months until the jobs picture, and
associated incomes, improves.”  Shares climbed as optimism about  China’s economy  tempered a
decline in technology stocks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
rose 0.3 percent to 1,465.98 at 12:58 p.m. in New York.  Components Drop  The decline in comfort last week was broad-based as all
three components retreated. The  personal finances  gauge fell to
minus 2.6 from 0.8 the prior week, the first positive reading
since July. The barometer measuring Americans’ views on the
 state of the economy  decreased to minus 58.7 from minus 57.1.
The buying climate index dropped to minus 41.9, falling for a
third consecutive week to reach the weakest level in more than
three months.  To help rein in the federal  budget deficit , lawmakers
agreed on Jan. 1 to let a  payroll-tax  cut expire, which means an
individual taking home $50,000 annually will lose a little more
than $80 a month. The levy will probably have a larger impact on
lower-income Americans.  “Near term, the environment remains difficult,”  Howard Levine , chief executive officer of  Family Dollar Stores Inc. (FDO) ,
said during a Jan. 3 earnings call. “Recent consumer confidence
commentary and muted holiday-sales results confirm to us that
our customers remain cautious. I view things like payroll taxes,
increased gas prices as things that go against our customer’s
wallet. Clearly, they do not have as much for discretionary
purchases as they did.”  Shares of the Matthews, North Carolina-based dollar store
chain, the second-largest dollar store in the U.S., tumbled 13
percent Jan. 3, the biggest drop in more than 12 years, after it
posted weaker profit margins and cut its full-year profit
outlook.  Income Groups  The Bloomberg index indicated those with less disposable
income showed the biggest declines in confidence last week.
Americans making between $25,000 and $39,999 were the most
pessimistic in three months, and confidence among those earning
$15,000 to $24,999 a year fell by the most in two months.  Consumers on the other end of the income scale remained
more confident. Today’s figures showed comfort among those
earning $50,000 or more annually climbed to the highest level
since November 2007. Sentiment among those making $100,000 or
more was the highest since October 2010.  The number of Americans applying for unemployment insurance
payments last week was the highest in a month and came as the
 median  forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a drop to 365,000. Estimates ranged from 340,000 to 380,000.  A consistent decline in firings, along with a rise in
payrolls, is needed to spur  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. While the agreement reached
by Congress averted sweeping tax increases and delayed budget
cuts that threatened the expansion, the impending battle over
the debt limit may weigh on the outlook for jobs.  Hiring Needs  “The story isn’t in firings so much as it is in hiring,”
said  Michael Hanson , a senior U.S. economist at Bank of America
Corp. in New York, who projected claims would increase. “We
need to see better payrolls data to get faster economic
growth.”  Employment climbed by 155,000 last month following a
revised 161,000 advance in November that was more than initially
estimated, Labor Department figures showed on Jan. 4. The
 unemployment rate  held at 7.8 percent after the November figure
was revised up from a previously reported 7.7 percent.  Job Openings  Another Labor Department report today showed  job openings 
rose in November before congressional wrangling over a package
of tax increases and government budget cuts had intensified.  The number of  positions  waiting to be filled climbed by
11,000 to 3.68 million, the most in five months, from 3.67
million in October. The report also showed hiring was little
changed and firings eased.  Wholesalers were in a good position to respond to any
pickup in demand, data from the Commerce Department also showed
today. Stockpiles at distributors rose 0.6 percent in November,
falling short of a 2.3 percent jump in sales, the biggest since
March 2011, as auto demand rebounded after superstorm Sandy.  That meant wholesalers had enough goods on hand to satisfy
1.19 months of sales at the current pace, the fewest since May.
Low inventories signal orders to manufacturers will pick up
along with any increase in demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  