-- Corbett’s Penn-State Ruling Pushback May Be Play for Alumni Vote
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/corbett-s-penn-state-ruling-pushback-may-be-play-for-alumni-vote.html
In July, Governor Tom Corbett called
penalties on  Pennsylvania  State University part of a
“corrective process” after a sex-abuse scandal. Last week, he
sued the National Collegiate Athletic Association for levying
them.  The governor needs good will, and the suit may provide it.
Corbett, a 63-year-old Republican, faces re-election in 2014
with approval ratings worse than those of any first-term
Pennsylvania governor in 24 years.  He’s made unpopular decisions in order to balance budgets
in a sluggish state economy, and the new attorney general won a
resounding victory after promising to review the nearly three-
year child-molestation investigation of a Penn State assistant
football coach that Corbett began.  “I don’t see him having a good year,” said Ryan Shafik,
founder of Rockwood Strategies, a Harrisburg-based consultancy
that works with Republican candidates.  “He’s dug himself in a
political hole.”  Polls underscore Corbett’s challenge.  “He has the lowest job performance on average of any
governor in modern history” in the state, said Terry Madonna,
who directs the Franklin & Marshall College Poll. Corbett is
“in a more precarious position for re-election than any
governor” in more than two decades, he said.  Hands Off  The suit, which the university itself didn't join,
is no ploy, said Kevin Harley, a Corbett spokesman.  “This lawsuit is not about politics or elections,” he
said. “It’s about fighting for the people of Pennsylvania.”  Corbett, a former attorney general who grew up in a
Pittsburgh suburb, applies his background as a county and
federal prosecutor to governing. He measures his words, saying
nothing about the Penn State scandal until four days after Jerry
Sandusky was charged with sexually abusing children.  “He’s more hands-off,” Shafik said. “He doesn’t like
dealing with the legislature. He doesn’t roll up his sleeves and
do the work other governors have done to get legislation done.”  Corbett has overseen an economy that is lagging the
national one, as gauged by a Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia index that tracks economic activity through jobs
and wage data. The state has underperformed the national measure
by 1.41 percentage points since Corbett took office.  Drilling Boom  The governor has said natural-gas drilling and related
industries will propel the economy. Since 2008, more than 5,500
wells have been drilled into the Marcellus shale, a deposit that
underlies two-thirds of the state.  Pennsylvania will add as many as 575,000 jobs by the end of
2020, with more than half the gains tied to the development of
natural gas, according to Wells Fargo Securities economists.  Still, when Corbett took office in January 2011, succeeding
term-limited Democrat Ed Rendell, he faced headwinds at once,
confronting a $4 billion deficit in a $27 billion budget. That
plan cut primary-education aid about 8.6 percent and reduced
spending on the state’s 14 universities about 18 percent.  His second budget, for the year that ends June 30, cut
welfare services, such as by eliminating a cash assistance
program for the poor and disabled. It also lowered business
taxes.  Meanwhile, many cities and their residents are suffering
from the 18-month recession that ended in 2009.  Local Woes  The capital, Harrisburg, is in state receivership and
defaulted on general-obligation debt twice last year. Scranton
paid its workers minimum wage in July after Mayor Christopher Doherty said the city didn’t have cash for the entire payroll.  While Corbett has said he will address the state’s $41
billion in unfunded pension liabilities -- a factor in the
state’s credit downgrade from Moody’s Investors Service in July
-- he hasn’t touched on the local woes. Municipal governments
face $8.5 billion in pension liabilities, according to
Pennsylvania’s Public Employee Retirement Commission.  Amid fiscal the challenges, Corbett waded into national
politics, joining other Republican governors in requiring voters
to show photo identification, a measure critics say was meant to
suppress Democratic votes. A judge barred implementation in the
November election, and Pennsylvania voters continued their
streak since 1992 of selecting the Democratic presidential
candidate, giving  Barack Obama  52 percent of the vote.  Such decisions have taken a toll.  Sandusky Scandal  Kathleen Kane, as Democratic candidate for attorney
general, promised to review how the office handled the Sandusky
investigation, which began in early 2009 when Corbett held her
post. In November, she  won  3.1 million votes -- the most of any
candidate on the state ballot.  Sandusky molested 10 boys over the course of 15 years at
places including Penn State facilities. The 68-year-old, an
assistant coach for 31 years under Paterno, was sentenced in
October to a minimum of three decades in prison.  The Indianapolis-based NCAA, the governing body for college
sports, fined the university $60 million for failing to prevent
the abuse. It also stripped Penn State of 112 football wins from
1998 through 2011 and barred the Nittany Lions from bowl games
for four years, matching the longest post-season ban in NCAA
history.  When the NCAA punished Penn State, Corbett said he was
“grateful” it didn’t shut down the football program. The
governor learned more about the situation over the intervening
months, said Harley, the spokesman.  “It’s not a flip flop,” he said. “That’s getting
evidence.”  ‘A Hero’  By suing the NCAA, Corbett could improve his relationship
with Penn State alumni, a massive voting bloc. Almost half of
the 560,658 graduates tracked by the alumni association live in
five cities, three in Pennsylvania.  Sixty-two percent of state voters thought the sanctions
were too strict and about half are fans of Penn State football,
 according  to results released Jan. 7 from Public Policy Polling
in Raleigh, North Carolina. The Lions’ home games  averaged 
96,730 people last year, according to the athletic department.  Any reduction of the NCAA penalties would boost Corbett,
said Chris Borick, director of the Muhlenberg College Institute
of Public Opinion in Allentown. “He’d be looked at in some ways
as a hero.”  So far, voters like the effort, with 52 percent surveyed
supporting the lawsuit, according to the Public Policy Polling
survey. Only 38 percent approve of his job performance.  Andrew Schaum of East Bradford Township, a 1984 graduate
who is president of a youth development non-profit, said he was
disappointed Corbett didn’t act sooner. Still, it’s
“refreshing” the governor suing the NCAA now, he said.  “This increases my attraction to him as a candidate,”
Schaum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  