-- Czechs May Elect President Set to Clash With Government
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2013-01-12T13:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/czechs-may-elect-president-set-to-clash-with-government.html
The  Czech Republic ’s first direct
presidential election threatens to usher in a leader who will
clash with Premier Petr Necas’s economic plans as the minority
coalition aims to curb the fiscal deficit amid a  recession .  Balloting ended today at 2 p.m. in Prague as the ex-
communist European Union member’s citizens voted for the third
president since the country became an independent state 20 years
ago. Vaclav Klaus, an economist who as premier oversaw the
transition from a centrally-planned to market economy two
decades ago, replaced the late Vaclav Havel in 2003.  The country is suffering its second recession since 2009.
The economy is showing weak domestic demand as households and
businesses cut spending due to government austerity programs and
the euro area’s debt crisis, prompting the central bank to lower
 interest rates  to effectively zero last year. Two former prime
ministers, Milos Zeman and Jan Fischer, lead in opinion polls
and are likely to advance to a run-off in two weeks. Results are
expected later today.  “Should Zeman make it into the second round with Fischer,
he is likely to rally the leftist vote, which has grown stronger
in opposition to austerity implemented by the government,” said
Otilia Simkova, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  London . “Necas’s
relationship with Klaus has recently been confrontational, but
this does not mean he will be relieved by Klaus’s departure.
Zeman would likely become an equally formidable critic.”  Austerity Measures  Necas has cut investment, raised the sales taxes and curbed
spending on public wages since taking power in 2010, crediting
the budget-deficit cuts with helping to reduce borrowing costs
to record lows.  Gross domestic product  shrank for a third three-
month period from July to September, matching the longest
quarterly declines on record.  The koruna was little changed at 25.636 to the euro late
yesterday. Its 2.1 percent loss in January is the second-
steepest among emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Klaus, who was the Czech Republic’s most high-profile
critic of the EU and its common currency, is forbidden by law to
seek the post again after his second term ends on March 7. One
of his most eminent acts during his 10-year presidency was to
delay signing of the EU’s Lisbon Treaty in 2009.  The president, who was until now elected by lawmakers,
selects the political leader who attempts to form a government
after general elections and influences  monetary policy  by
holding the sole right to name central bank board members. The
position’s powers haven’t changed under the new voting system.  Poll Results  Zeman led the latest opinion poll by Ppm Factum company
with 25 percent support, ahead of Fischer with 20 percent. The
poll was conducted among a representative sample of 959 people
Jan. 1-6. It didn’t publish a margin of error. Running in third
place in opinion polls with about 11 percent support is Vladimir
Franz, a composer and painter known more for his head-to-toe
tattoos than his politics. A candidate must receive 50 percent
of the vote to win the elections outright.  The Czech Electoral Commission estimated turnout on the
first day of voting at about 40 percent of the country’s 8.5
million eligible voters, the CTK news wire reported. If the pace
continues, total participation may reach 60 percent, compared
with about 35 percent in the first round of Senate elections in
October last year, CTK said.  Zeman, 68, and Klaus were rivals in the 1990s heading the
two largest political factions in the country. Zeman, an
economist who worked as a forecaster in the Academy of Science
shortly after the fall of communism in 1989, eventually won the
premier’s office in 1998 when his  Social Democrats  formed a
minority government that ruled thanks to an agreement with the
opposition Civic Democrats, then led by Klaus.  Opposing Plan  His economic program for the presidential race included
calls for more state investment and restoration of progressive
taxation of higher earners. He has opposed Necas’s pension
overhaul, a program designed to boost private retirement savings
that was among reasons cited by  Standard & Poor’s  when it lifted
the rating on the country’s debt two steps to AA-, its fourth-
highest grade, in 2011.  Zeman said he would name central bankers who support
economic growth and not strive only to meet the inflation and
currency-stability goals mandated by the law.  “These two functions of the central bank are equally
important,” Zeman said at an economic conference Jan. 8. “One
of the main causes of the current crisis is undercapitalization
of the economies.”  The first chance for the new president to amend the rate-
setting central bank board will come in March 2014 when the term
of Eva Zamrazilova ends.  Fischer, 62, rose to prominence in 2009 when the two main
political parties picked the then-head of the statistics office
to lead a caretaker Cabinet after the administration of Mirek
Topolanek collapsed in the middle of the Czech EU presidency.  Communist Party  Also an economist, Fischer said during the campaign he
wouldn’t name a government including ministers from the
Communist Party, although he stopped short of ruling out naming
a Cabinet that would rule with their tacit support. He has
called his membership in the Communist Party before the regime
collapsed in 1989 “a mistake.”  Franz, who has never held political office and admits to
little knowledge of economics, has shaken up the campaign with
his straight talk and body art accented by the red, blue and
green swirls that envelope his entire face.  Supported mainly by younger voters, the rise of his
candidacy has shown the disdain many Czechs have for politicians
they feel are corrupt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in  Prague  at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  