-- Dana Gas Set for One-Year High Amid Profit Bets: Abu Dhabi Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-01-10T07:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/dana-gas-set-for-one-year-high-amid-profit-bets-abu-dhabi-mover.html
Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  headed for the highest
level in more than a year on bets the United Arab Emirates fuel
producer will collect outstanding payments in Iraq and Egypt,
boosting the outlook for earnings.  The shares rose 8.2 percent to 53 fils, set for the highest
close since November 2011, at 11:27 a.m. in  Abu Dhabi . The
company was the biggest gainer in the benchmark  ADX General
Index (ADSMI)  with more than four times the three-month daily average
volume. Dana Gas said its board approved the budget for 2013,
discussed progress in U.A.E., Egypt and Kurdish region projects
as well as efforts made to collect outstanding receivables.  Dana Gas was forced to restructure about $920 million in
Islamic bonds last year after political instability in Egypt and
Iraq’s Kurdish region led to the payment delays. The gas
producer may post  15 percent growth in 2012  net income to 584
million dirhams ($159 million), according to the median estimate
of four analysts on Bloomberg. Dana Gas’s shares are undervalued
and are worth 90 fils, Exotix Ltd. said last month.  “ Cash flow  is really vital for Dana Gas and any news on
new collections will enhance the balance sheet as well as reduce
the amount of uncertainty of investors as they refocus on the
fundamentals” after the debt restructuring, Tariq Qaqish,
deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal Capital
PSC, said by e-mail today.  Dana Gas shares are trading at 6.75 times  estimated 2012
earnings , compared with 13 times for  Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. (CRZO) , a
Houston-based natural gas and crude oil explorer and producer.
The stock was the most-traded in the Gulf Cooperation Council so
far today, according to the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index. (BGCC200)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net  