-- Danes Could Face Trouble When Rates Increase, Bernstein Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-01-10T11:15:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/danes-could-face-trouble-when-rates-increase-bernstein-says.html
Danes risk loading up on debt they
can’t afford amid record-low rates as an eventual rise in
borrowing costs could be hard to handle for some consumers,
central bank Governor Nils Bernstein said.  There could be a “concern” that “people have become
accustomed to the low rates and have made their budgets
according to the low rates,” Bernstein said this week at his
Copenhagen office in his last scheduled interview before he
retires this month. “One could expect that some will come into
trouble as rates begin to rise.”  Danish private sector debt,  Europe ’s highest relative to
the size of its economy, threatens an economic recovery in the
Nordic country by curbing private consumption, according to the
European Commission. The government last month cut its forecast
for growth in consumer spending this year even as the nation
struggles to emerge from a four-year housing slump.  While a study by the central bank, called Nationalbanken,
concluded in December that household debt is not now a threat to
financial stability, the preponderance of interest-only mortgage
loans remains a risk, Bernstein said.  “It’s something that one needs to have an eye on,” the
70-year-old central banker said. “That the system isn’t going
to collapse isn’t to say that it’s problem-free, because there
will be some who may come into trouble but not enough to
threaten financial stability.”  Mortgage Talks  Denmark ’s mortgage lenders are now in talks with regulators
over how to keep struggling borrowers afloat as principal comes
due on the first interest-only loans that were issued a decade
ago. The industry’s loan writedowns jumped 51 percent in the six
months through June 30, the Financial Supervisory Authority said
last month.  Bernstein’s policies have helped fuel borrowing as he has
cut rates to unprecedented levels to protect the krone’s peg to
the euro. The bank last year lowered its key monetary rate to a
negative, while mortgage rates fell below 0.5 percent, as
investors fleeing from Europe’s sovereign debt crisis bought up
the country’s AAA rated government and mortgage bonds.  Low rates have fueled demand for interest-only and
adjustable-rate mortgage loans, which now make up more than half
of outstanding home loans.  Negative Trends  “We still have the whole discussion about the very large
amount of interest-only loans, which in our view amplify
negative trends in the economy,” Bernstein said.  The ratio of Denmark’s gross private sector debt to gross
domestic product was at 243 percent in 2010, the highest among
EU-members states, the commission  said  in a May report. The
economy is “considerably behind” peers including  Finland  in
returning to its pre-financial crisis level, the commission
said.  Consumer spending will grow by 1.5 percent in 2013 amid a
slump in the housing market, the government said last month,
cutting an August forecast of 2.3 percent. The International
Monetary Fund has urged the government of Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt to stand ready to support the economy if it
continues to weaken.  Gross domestic product contracted 0.4 percent last year and
will grow by 1.2 percent this year amid “moderate” private
consumption, the government estimates.  Small Increases  The central bank in July cut its deposit rate to minus 0.2
percent, while its lending rate stands at 0.2 percent. The
bank’s mandate is to keep the krone fixed to the euro, which
means it typically follows rate changes made by the European
Central Bank.  “Recently there’s been a tendency toward net outflows,
which points toward an independent Danish hike, but the outflow
has been very limited,” Lars Olsen, senior economist at  Danske
Bank A/S (DANSKE) , said today in an e-mail.  “We do expect independent Danish hikes,” he said. “The
main scenario is two hikes of 10 basis points before the
summer.”  Bernstein declined to say when the bank will change its
rates, citing internal policy.  “But that said, there isn’t any doubt that interest rates
in general are unusually low at this point,” he said. “So it
shouldn’t be any surprise to guess that at some point it will
increase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  