-- De Niro’s Blood-SoakedShirt, DiCaprio’s Ax Star in Berlin
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-01-10T08:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/de-niro-s-blood-soakedshirt-dicaprio-s-ax-star-in-berlin.html
Robert de Niro’s blood-soaked shirt
from “Taxi Driver” and an ax wielded by Leonardo DiCaprio as
Amsterdam are among the highlights in a show of Martin Scorsese’s personal archive opening today in Berlin.  At the  Film and Television Museum , Scorsese is giving
Berliners the first public peek into his private archive. It
includes a storyboard he produced age 11 (a desert adventure
brought to you from “Marsco Productions”) and the yellow gown
Cate Blanchett donned as Katharine Hepburn in “The Aviator.”  Scorsese, 70, couldn’t attend the exhibition opening
because he is still in post-production on his latest film, “The
Wolf of Wall Street,” starring DiCaprio.  Hurricane Sandy  held
up the production as well as hindering the shipping of some of
the exhibits, the curators said.  “Some of the objects you’ll see have been literally taken
off the walls of my house and my office,” Scorsese said in a
video message shown at the opening. “I must have given
permission for quite a lot of things to go, because I keep
missing things in my house.”  The Oscar-winning director understandably refused to show
private letters. The show is above all a chronicle of a career,
with interesting, though largely known, biographical tidbits
about his upbringing in New York’s Little  Italy .  Asthmatic Child  Scorsese suffered from asthma and was a sickly child. His
older brother by six years, Frank, regularly took him to the
cinema and took care of him. His mother Catherine Scorsese
embodied the Italian Mamma in several of his earlier movies and
his father also took small roles.  Fanatically detailed storyboards and carefully annotated
scripts show how this director leaves little to chance. Those he
works with are similarly perfectionist. De Niro’s taxi-driver
license is shown in a glass box: He played a cabbie, so as a
method actor he had to become one too.  Scorsese is also a hoarder of film posters and memorabilia
himself. A poster signed by the Simpsons’ creator Matt Groening
honors “Bart Simpson’s favorite director.”  Among the more surprising and touching exhibits are the red
shoes from Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger’s film based on
the fairytale by Hans Christian Andersen. I wouldn’t have had
Scorsese down as a balletomane.  He is definitely a music fan, as testified by his box of
vinyl singles, all immaculately indexed, and by his
documentaries such as “Shine a Light” about the Rolling Stones
and movies on Bob Dylan and George Harrison.  In the late 1970s, Scorsese campaigned to  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ) 
for improvements in the sustainability of color film. He wrote
to colleagues asking for their support: The responses of Sidney Lumet, Andrzej Wajda and others are displayed.  “Would you be surprised if I told you that after only five
years the blue is leaving the water of ‘Jaws,’ while the blood
spurting from Robert Shaw’s mouth gets redder and redder?”
wrote director Steven Spielberg.  “Martin Scorsese” is showing at the Deutsche Kinemathek
Museum fuer Film und Fernsehen through May 12. For more
information, go to  http://www.deutsche-kinemathek.de/en   The Arsenal Cinema in the basement of the museum building
is showing a retrospective of Scorsese’s films through Jan. 15.
For the program,  http://www.arsenal-berlin.de   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars,  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech and  Lance Esplund  on art.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 