-- Delhi Rape Victims Are to Blame, Defendants’ Lawyer Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2013-01-10T11:36:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/delhi-rape-victims-are-to-blame-defendants-lawyer-says.html
The lawyer representing three of the
men charged with the gang rape and murder of a medical student
aboard a moving bus in  New Delhi  has blamed the victims for the
assault, saying he has never heard of a “respected lady” being
raped in India.  Manohar Lal Sharma’s comments come as Indians have reacted
with outrage to the opinions of politicians and a religious
preacher who have accused westernized women of inviting sexual
assaults. Sharma said the male companion of the murdered 23-
year-old was “wholly responsible” for the incident as the
unmarried couple should not have been on the streets at night.  “Until today I have not seen a single incident or example
of rape with a respected lady,” Sharma said in an interview at
a cafe outside the  Supreme Court  in India’s capital. “Even an
underworld don would not like to touch a girl with respect.”  Sharma’s comments highlight frequently aired attitudes
toward women in  India . Activists say reporting of sex crimes and
police investigations of rape are hindered by a tendency to
blame the victim for not following the traditional, conservative
social roles ascribed to women.  “This is the mentality which most Indian men are suffering
from unfortunately,” said Ranjana Kumari, director for the New
Delhi-based  Centre for Social Research . “That is the mindset
that has been perpetrating this crime because they justify it
indirectly, you asked for it so it is your responsibility.”  ‘Chant God’s Name’  A spiritual guru,  Asharam , sparked an outcry earlier this
week when he said the New Delhi victim was equally responsible
and should have “chanted God’s name and fallen at the feet of
the attackers” to stop the assault.  Mohan Bhagwat, the head of the pro-Hindu  Rashtriya
Swayamsevak Sangh  that underpins the country’s main opposition
political party, said rapes only occur in Indian cities, not in
its villages, because women there adopt western lifestyles.  Sharma said the man and woman should not have been
traveling back late in the evening and making their journey on
public transport. He also said it was the man’s responsibility
to protect the woman and that he had failed in his duty.  “The man has broken the faith of the woman,” Sharma said
yesterday. “If a man fails to protect the woman, or she has a
single doubt about his failure to protect her, the woman will
never go with that man.”  Sharma, 56, a  Supreme Court  lawyer for the last two
decades, says that his clients are innocent.  Courtroom Chaos  “This is a very complicated case and the matter has not
been solved yet,” he said. Police have said they have DNA
evidence linking all six to the crime.  The defendants were brought into court today protected by
more than 20 police for a brief hearing. Sharma said the court
was adjourned after he had filed an application requesting the
charge sheet be given to the men in Hindi rather than English.
The next court date will be Jan. 14.  Ram Singh, the driver of the bus and the alleged
ringleader, is struggling to communicate and fluctuating between
crying and laughing, Sharma said. Sharma, who has also been
appointed to represent Singh’s brother Mukesh and Akshay Kumar
Singh, who is unrelated, plans to challenge  police  over their
handling of the evidence.  Sharma’s appointment comes after chaotic scenes on Jan. 7
that forced the magistrate to order a private hearing over
concerns for the safety of the accused. Sharma was one of two
lawyers denounced by other advocates for volunteering to
represent the defendants. Arguments and scuffles over his offer
led the magistrate to order the  court room  be cleared and future
sessions to be held behind closed doors.  Becoming Doctor  The gang rape of the woman on Dec. 16 provoked a sustained
and charged debate about the safety of women in the world’s
biggest democracy. The brutality of the crime and allegations by
the male friend of the victim that it took police 45 minutes to
respond to calls outraged the nation.  Describing the victim’s battle for life, her father said in
an interview with British television channel ITV yesterday that
he was initially optimistic that she would survive the attack.
He said his daughter’s ambition was to be a doctor.  “Her main aim was that our family wouldn’t have to suffer
any more,” the father said, his face blurred by the channel to
protect his identity.  The attack on the woman and her friend, which led to her
death almost two weeks later, forced the government to address
demands for swifter justice, safer streets and heavier sentences
in rape cases. India’s top court on Jan. 4 began considering
demands for faster trials and the suspension of lawmakers
accused of sex crimes.  Three Illiterate  Sharma said he met the defendants for the first time on
Jan. 7 for 15 minutes and was due to talk with them again
yesterday. The three defendants he is representing put their
thumb prints on forms appointing Sharma as their lawyer because
they are illiterate, according to a copy of the documents given
to  Bloomberg News .  Five of the six accused will be tried for abduction, rape
and murder, among other charges, government prosecutor Rajiv
Mohan said Jan. 6. The other, said to be a juvenile, has been
appearing before a separate judicial panel.  The male friend of the woman who was repeatedly raped and
brutalized aboard the bus last month has recounted the two-hour
attack which ended with the couple being thrown on to the
roadside, ignored by passersby and argued over by police.  ‘Seeking Revenge’  In a Jan. 4 interview with the Zee News television channel,
the man, who along with the rape victim hasn’t been officially
identified, described how they were lured on to the bus
operating illegally on the night of Dec. 16 as they returned
home from a movie theater in a southern neighborhood of the
Indian capital.  The six men aboard the bus, “which had tinted windows and
curtains, had laid a trap for us,” he told the channel. “They
beat us up, hit us with an iron rod, snatched our clothes and
belongings and threw us off the bus on a deserted stretch.” The
woman, who was flown to  Singapore  for medical treatment, died in
the hospital Dec. 29.  Sharma says there are number of discrepancies in the
police’s version of the events, which he will reveal in court.
The only example he was willing to give is the failure of the
police almost three weeks after the attack to determine whether
one of the accused is a juvenile.  Sharma criticized the lawyers of a local district
association who have said no advocates should represent the
accused.  “These people are just seeking revenge,” Sharma said.
“They are not seeking justice. A defendant has a right to a
lawyer, this is a basic principle of a modern society.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  