-- Deutsche Bank Says Trade Reported by WSJ Didn’t Rig Libor
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2013-01-10T10:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/deutsche-bank-says-trade-reported-by-wsj-didn-t-manipulate-libor.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest
bank, said trades linked to benchmark rates were legal after the
Wall Street Journal reported it made a profit of at least 500
million euros ($654 million) from the transactions in 2008.  Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank “diversified and lowered the
bank’s portfolio risk” during the financial crisis, just like
many investors, it said in an e-mailed statement today.  Global authorities are investigating claims that more than
a dozen banks including Deutsche Bank rigged submissions used to
set benchmarks such as the London interbank offered rate to
profit from bets on interest-rate derivatives or make their
finances appear healthier.  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank,
reached a $1.5 billion settlement for manipulation of  interest
rates  and criminal charges against two former traders in
December.  The strategy “was based on a market view about the likely
direction of interest rates and not on any belief that the bank
could inappropriately influence interbank lending rates,”
according to the statement.  Deutsche Bank made the profit in 2008 from billions of
euros in bets related to Libor and other global benchmark rates,
the WSJ  reported  today, citing internal bank documents.  Christian Streckert, a spokesman for Deutsche Bank,
declined to comment on the size of any gains the firm made from
the trades in a telephone interview.  Shares Rise  The company climbed 0.8 percent to 36.96 at 10:16 a.m. in
Frankfurt trading, matching an advance for Europe’s benchmark
Stoxx 600 Banks Index. The share climbed 13 percent this year,
valuing the bank at 34.6 billion euros.  “Deutsche Bank is the market leader in the rates business
and they make substantial amounts,”  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst with London-based  Mediobanca SpA (MB) , who recommends clients
sell the shares, said by telephone. “But it is not clear
whether any of that money was made through any kind of
involvement in Libor rigging.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Pl c is in settlement
negotiations with regulators over manipulation of Libor, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. Former traders at
Deutsche Bank,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are also
under investigation, according to one person who asked not to be
identified because the probes are continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  