-- Dexus Plans Off-Market Bids as It Seeks More Australian Offices
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-01-10T21:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/dexus-plans-off-market-bids-as-it-seeks-more-australian-offices.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS)  will seek to
buy office buildings in  Australia ’s four biggest cities before
they’re officially listed for sale as it searches for high-
quality commercial properties.  “We’ll be active in the acquisition markets this year,”
Darren Steinberg, Dexus chief executive officer, said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “There’s a lot of interest in
premium office buildings, but the depth of our management
expertise, the strength of our networks and our knowledge of
markets does enable us to obtain off-market positions.”  Steinberg, who took the helm at the Sydney-based company on
March 1, 2012, changed direction from his predecessor, Victor
Hoog Antink, who wanted to expand Dexus’s industrial property
operations on the U.S.’s West Coast. Steinberg in December said
the company had agreed to sell all but one of its remaining U.S.
properties for $561 million, a 13 percent premium to book value,
and the next day announced it had reinvested A$504 million ($534
million) in office buildings in Sydney.  Dexus is looking for office properties in Perth, Brisbane,
Sydney and  Melbourne , both in partnership with other groups and
on its own, Steinberg said. An expectation that capitalization
rates, a measure of property yield, will drop in the next 12 to
24 months, is contributing to this strategy, he said.  Dexus shares jumped 22 percent in 2012, compared with a 15
percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. They’ve lost 1
percent this year.  Office Rents  Rents of office properties in Perth surged 12.9 percent in
the third quarter of 2012 from the previous year, while
Melbourne’s rose 3.4 percent, Sydney’s 3.2 percent and
Brisbane’s fell 0.1 percent, according to Los Angeles-based
broker CBRE Group Inc.  Even when purchases are made with partners, Dexus plans to
manage the properties, Steinberg said.  “We have some very close partnerships with unlisted
capital, but the key for us is to have management control,” he
said.  The latest  sale  of Dexus’s U.S. properties followed the
April 2012 divestment of 65 industrial assets in the U.S. to
Blackstone Group LP for $770 million. The National Pension
Service of  Korea  purchased the U.S. properties in December,
according to a person briefed on the deal.  Dexus will maintain its Australian industrial properties,
which are a “very good diversifier of our commercial
portfolio,” at about 20 percent of its total assets, Steinberg
said.  Korea Partnership  Dexus in August said it had established a partnership with
the Korean pension to invest A$360 million in its Australian
industrial assets. The partnership could grow to A$800 million
in the next five years as Dexus completes industrial
developments that the pension will then have the option to buy
at market rates, Steinberg said.  Prime industrial property rents have returned to the levels
they were at before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008 and values are at a four-year high, as supply of
prime warehouses remains tight, CBRE said in a release in
November. Continuing buyer and tenant demand will support
further improvements, it said.  With Dexus’s ratio of debt to total assets at 29 percent --
compared with a target range of 30 percent to 40 percent -- its
share of acquisitions will likely be debt-funded, Steinberg
said, declining to provide further details. The group, which has
been seeking to diversify its sources of debt and extend debt
maturities by issuing domestic medium-term notes and bonds in
the U.S., will continue to do so in 2013, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  