-- DNA in Mother’s Blood Can Spot Genetic Mutations in Fetus
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-01-10T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/dna-in-mother-s-blood-can-spot-genetic-mutations-in-fetus.html
Fetal DNA circulating in a pregnant
mother’s blood can be used to detect a wide variety of genetic
abnormalities before birth, opening the door for noninvasive
testing for more conditions.  By sequencing DNA that escapes into women’s bloodstreams,
scientists were able to detect disease-causing mutations that
are now normally found by piercing a mother’s womb with a needle
to get amniotic fluid, according to a study in the  American
Journal of Human Genetics .  Amniocentesis, the standard procedure for prenatally
testing for genetic conditions such as Down syndrome, carries a
low risk of miscarriage. Obtaining DNA from a blood sample from
the mother carries virtually no risk, and may enable doctors to
expand their reach and accuracy as they look for genetic
disease, said Cynthia Morton, a Harvard Medical School
geneticist who performs prenatal tests at Brigham & Women’s
Hospital in Boston.  “This could largely replace invasive testing,” she said
in a telephone interview, “and, no doubt, is an exciting next
step in the future of prenatal testing.”  The study was done by scientists at  Tufts Medical Center  in
Boston and  Verinata Health Inc . in  Redwood City ,  California .
 Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , the biggest maker of DNA sequencers, said this
week that it will buy Verinata for $350 million plus as much as
$100 million in milestone payments through 2015.  DNA Analysis  Interest in sequencing fetuses and newborns is increasing
as more laboratories are showing that DNA analysis can quickly
diagnose rare diseases that once took years to unravel. The U.S.
National Human Genome Research Institute and the National
Institute of Child Health and Newborn Development have set aside
$25 million to study questions related to sequencing newborns
over the next five years.  Verinata and other companies already offer blood tests that
analyze circulating fetal DNA to diagnose Down syndrome, a
genetic condition in which a baby is born with three copies of
chromosome 21, instead of the normal two. The same tests can
detect other conditions in which the fetus has too many copies
of certain chromosomes, which are the packages that hold large
amounts of DNA within the cell’s nucleus.  In the study published today, the team showed that they can
detect far smaller genetic flaws that affect just portions of
chromosomes. The test was able to find abnormalities involving
as little as 100 kilobases of DNA, a fraction of the millions of
chemical bases that each chromosome normally contains.  Cheaper Sequencing  The price of sequencing DNA is falling quickly, and as it
does, the scientists are using the procedure to replace and
expand on established medical tests. In a study released
yesterday in the journal  Science Translational Medicine , for
example, researchers showed that DNA analysis of the  Pap smear 
for cervical cancer can also identify malignancies of the
ovaries and endometrium.  Currently, doctors who believe a fetus may harbor a genetic
condition analyze chromosomes and DNA taken by amniocentesis.  Sequencing fetal DNA from the mother’s bloodstream costs
about as much to perform as conventional amniocentesis
techniques, said Richard Rava, Verinata’s chief science officer
and one of the investigators on the study. While the blood test
isn’t available commercially yet, he said the company will give
“serious consideration” to making it a product.  “It won’t be tomorrow,” he said. “The study shows that
this is no longer a technical issue for us. Now it’s more of a
question of how does the market want to drive forward with
this.”  Balanced Translocation  Some mutations that can be found by standard testing may
not be detectable with the Verinata technique, Morton said. For
example, in certain cases, two chromosomes may exchange equal-
size portions of their DNA, a defect called a balanced
translocation. Some data suggests that at least 6 percent of
balanced translocations can lead to illnesses that appear at or
near birth, Morton said.  “You wouldn’t to miss them,” in testing, Morton said.  Doctors may want to use noninvasive techniques first, and
then turn to invasive techniques later if needed, Rava said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  