-- DRB-Hicom Stock Jumps on Report Mokhtar May Offer Buyout
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-01-10T09:27:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/drb-hicom-rallies-on-report-of-buyout-bid-kuala-lumpur-mover.html
DRB-Hicom Bhd. (DRB) , a Malaysian
automaker, rose the most in two weeks in Kuala Lumpur trading
after news reports said its biggest shareholder Syed Mokhtar Al- Bukhary may buy out the company and list its distribution arm.  The stock  climbed  2.7 percent to 2.70 ringgit, its steepest
increase since Dec. 28. It’s the biggest gainer in the  FTSE
Bursa Malaysia Top 100 Index (FBM100) , which fell 0.3 percent. The shares
earlier gained as much as 5.7 percent.  Billionaire Syed Mokhtar may make a standalone offer to
take DRB private at 3.50 ringgit to 4 ringgit per share,
Business Times reported today, citing unidentified people
working on the plan. The group, which acquired national carmaker
Proton Holdings Bhd. last year, may also list its distribution
arm, state news agency Bernama reported yesterday.  “We believe any privatization would make sense,” Lucius Chong, an analyst at  CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , wrote in a report
today. “DRB is trading below its net tangible assets and a
restructuring could be accelerated through the sale of non-core
assets and the separate re-listing of its automotive
businesses,” he said.  DRB, based in Shah Alam, Selangor, also has property
development and construction businesses, according to its
website. Syed Mokhtar, 61, owns 56 percent of the company
through Etika Strategi Sdn., data compiled by Bloomberg show. He
is  Malaysia ’s seventh richest man with assets totaling $3.3
billion, according to a Forbes magazine ranking in March.  “We are unaware, caught by surprise, and there hasn’t been
any proposal that came to DRB,” Group Managing Director Mohd Khamil Jamil told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur . “You put it
rightly that it’s a rumor. Don’t believe the rumor.”  Last month, companies linked to Syed Mokhtar made a
takeover offer for Tradewinds (Malaysia) Bhd., a palm oil
planter and rice producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  