-- The Platinum Coin: It’s a Really Bad Idea
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2013-01-10T23:33:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/the-platinum-coin-it-s-a-really-bad-idea.html
“The history of coinage is indeed,
in many cases, a melancholy record of fraud, folly, and
ignorance.”  So wrote  Sir John Lubbock in his classic 1902 book,
“A Short History of Coins and Currency.” And I will freely admit
that my first reaction, on hearing about the platinum coin, was
to nod sagely and tell myself that Lubbock was right.  But as an ever-longer list of people whose views I respect
lined up  in favor  of minting the special trillion-dollar coin as
a temporary measure to get around the debt ceiling, I decided to
have another look. On somber second look, I was right the first
time: It’s a really bad idea.  In the first place, it would be illegal. Proponents insist
that  the language  of Title 31 of the United States Code, Section
5112(k), is broad enough to allow the U.S.  Treasury secretary  to
order the coin minted in whatever denomination he chooses.  I’m old-fashioned enough that I still teach my students
that the plain language of a statute must be construed in
accordance with its purpose. That’s why, when a criminal statute
punishes anyone who uses a gun “or” another deadly weapon in
commission of a felony, you can’t escape by pleading that you
used both. The literal language of the statute might permit that
construction, but the legislative purpose doesn’t.  As innumerable critics have pointed out, the purpose of
section 5112(k) is to allow the creation of collectors items,
not money -- a proposition  affirmed by  the former member of the
House who authored the law, Michael Castle of  Delaware . (Alas,
there is no formal legislative history.)  Perplexing Determination  But suppose I’m wrong, and the coin would be legal. Even
so, I’m persuaded that political blogger Kevin Drum  is asking 
the right questions: “Is this really the road liberals want to
go down? Do we really want to be on record endorsing the idea
that if a president doesn’t get his way, he should simply twist
the law like a pretzel and essentially do what he wants by
fiat?”  I am perplexed by the determination of Democrats to enhance
presidential power. All the authority they seem so excited to
place in President  Barack Obama ’s hands will one day be wielded
by a Republican. I was raised to remember that goose and gander
alike sup with the same spoon.  Literary critic Lionel Trilling, back in his liberal days,
had it right when he warned against the liberal tendency to so
fall in love with a “cherished goal” that it “forbids that we
stop to consider how we reach it.” In a constitutional system,
process matters.  That’s why liberals shouldn’t be so quick to defend (for
example) Obama’s use of recess appointments. True, Presidents
 Bill Clinton  and  George W. Bush  used them a lot more, but for
the same bad reason: to circumvent the confirmation process by
thrusting into office people they wouldn’t be able to get
through the Senate. To do this now and then is one thing; to
make it systematic raises a genuine constitutional problem.
Confirmation of executive branch appointees isn’t  supposed to be
easy . It’s there to restrain the executive. If the president
feels tied down, that’s a sign that the process is working.  But Democrats have become impatient with process. Not long
before the tax deal, some on the left floated the idea that the
administration could unilaterally keep rates from rising by
adjusting the tax withholding tables, which rest, statutorily,
within the discretion of the Treasury secretary. I wonder how
they might respond should some future supply-side Republican try
to use precisely that tactic to lower rates.  Appalling Determination  Then there’s the suggestion endorsed by, among others, the
Democratic leader of the House,  California ’s  Nancy Pelosi , that
the 14th Amendment allows the president to ignore Congress and
raise the debt limit on his own. Well, my goodness. Why didn’t
Bush think of that, back when Democrats were railing against the
rising deficits in his final years? Sure, constitutional
traditionalists would have been appalled, but Pelosi, one
presumes, would have leaped to his defense.  The trillion-dollar coin falls into the same category.
Rather than asking whether it’s legal, or how the markets would
respond, we should be asking whether today’s enthusiastic
supporters would be on board were it proposed by supporters of
president-elect  Mitt Romney .  And, yes, I know, these times are different. We face an
emergency caused,  according to   New York  Times columnist  Paul Krugman , by “the mixture of ruthlessness and craziness that now
characterizes  House Republicans .” Is this an unusually crazy
time? I wouldn’t know: Partisan politics isn’t my thing, so I’ll
leave that judgment to others. But we’ve faced lots of crazy
moments in history and managed to get through them without
chasing every little gimmick.  Besides, there are only so many times one can go to the
same well. The constant complaint offered in justification of
each of these efforts is that the Republicans are being
intransigent. But intransigence is built into the constitutional
process. Dissenters can block action. They can force compromise.
Those aspects of the system can be terribly frustrating when you
happen to be in the majority, a perspective from which
disagreement always looks like pigheadedness.  From the point of view of the minority, however, these are
valuable checks and balances. Take the Senate filibuster,
currently targeted by many on the left for extinction. There is
a long tradition in deliberative bodies of requiring a
supermajority vote to limit debate.  Why not just a majority? Because, as U.S. Army General
Henry M. Robert wrote in the first edition of his eponymous
“Rules of Order,” putting an end to the debate suspends “the
fundamental right of every member of a deliberative assembly to
have every question fully discussed before it is finally
disposed of.” Indeed, were a simple majority able to end debate,
there would never be any need to discuss anything: Just show up
and vote.  Horrific Determination  Historically, the filibuster has been used for horrific
ends, including as a last-ditch effort by Southern Democrats to
prevent the passage of major civil rights legislation. But that
filibuster was broken once and for all in 1964, and without
changing the rules. What was required was a majority willing to
roll logs and twist arms -- that is, to do the hard work of
actual governance.  Let’s assume, for the sake of argument, that today’s
majority is, most of the time, the good guys. That doesn’t mean
they don’t have to give in now and then to a passionate
minority. Compromise, to be sure, was easier in an era when we
didn’t tweet every private meeting between senators, and cable
news hosts didn’t spend prime time throwing red meat to the
angry herds on the right and left.  But we can have constitutional government or we can have
“the good guys” winning every fight. We can’t have both.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and the
novel “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 