-- Heating Oil Fluctuates on Colder Weather Forecasts, Cargo Talk
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2013-01-10T18:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/heating-oil-gains-on-colder-weather-and-lower-european-rates.html
Heating oil fluctuated on forecasts
for colder weather, which could boost demand, and speculation
that foreign gasoil cargoes will arrive in the U.S. East Coast,
increasing inventories.  Futures swung between a 1.4 percent gain and a 0.3 percent
decline. The U.S. Climate Prediction Center  estimated 
temperatures will be normal to lower-than-normal across the
Northeast from Jan. 15 through Jan. 23. The premium of February
futures over later-month delivery shrank amid higher-than-normal
volume on optimism supplies will increase.  “There’s a lot of talk of cargoes coming in of Russian
gasoil and that makes sense, given the price,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at Jefferies Bache LLC in  New
York . “There’s a lot of volume trading.”  Heating oil for February delivery rose 0.38 cent to $3.0737
a gallon at 1:16 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Volume was more than double the 100-day average.  Imports of heating oil, tripled to 97,000 barrels a day
last week from a week earlier, Energy Department data show.  Higher-than-normal volumes of calendar spreads traded,
which narrowed the premium of February contracts over March and
March over April. The February-March spread shrank 0.65 cent to
0.99 cent a gallon, with 34,855 lots changing hands, compared
with an average of 17,161 over the week through yesterday. The
March-April gap narrowed 0.75 cent to 1.49 cents.  Futures earlier touched $3.1137, the highest intraday level
since Oct. 30, as gasoil rallied in  Europe  on colder weather and
speculation that rising inventories and lower refining margins
will lead to run cuts. Higher gasoil prices may attract diesel
shipments from the U.S.  Cold Weather  “Cold weather in Europe coupled with the return of winter
to the U.S. Northeast has given a boost to products,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at Price Futures Group in  Chicago .  Low temperatures in  Frankfurt  are forecast to drop to minus
9 degrees Celsius (16 Fahrenheit) on Jan. 16 from 4 degrees
today, according to CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg.  Gasoil for February delivery advanced $9 to $957.75 per
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  “Gasoil has been rallying on cold weather in  Germany ,”
said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in
Houston.  Stockpiles of gasoil in independent storage rose 5.1
percent to a three-month high in Europe’s Amsterdam-Rotterdam-
Antwerp trading hub during the week ended today, according to
PJK International BV. Gasoil’s premium over  Brent crude , or the
crack spread, sank to $13.32 a barrel Dec. 31, the lowest level
since May 21 for the contracts nearest to expiration.  Run Cuts  “The risk of a run cut in Europe are quite high as
inventories increase and it’s a risk in the U.S. as well,” Sen
said. “Yesterday, given how little heating oil reacted to the
inventory numbers, you could be getting a reaction today to the
stats from yesterday,” Sen said.  Inventories of heating oil and diesel in the U.S. rose 6.78
million barrels last week to the highest level since April 6,
according to Energy Department data.  “This was a gasoil driven move in the first place,” said
Amrita Sen, chief oil market strategist at Energy Aspects Ltd.,
a  research consulting company in  London . “Heating oil might
underperform gasoil given the levels of inventory build.”  Gasoline for February delivery advanced 2.3 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $2.8019 a gallon on the exchange.  The average nationwide  retail price  for regular gasoline
gained 0.6 cent to $3.31 a gallon, AAA said today on its
website. That’s the highest price since Dec. 11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  