-- ECB’s Draghi Says There Is No Reason to Think About Exit Now
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r ,   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-01-10T14:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ecb-s-draghi-says-there-is-no-reason-to-think-about-exit-now.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on inflation, the economic outlook for the
euro-area and the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after policy makers kept  interest rates  unchanged at a
record low of 0.75 percent.  On rates:  “The decision was unanimous.”  “If you look at the overall landscape, taking a medium
term perspective, you would see a significant improvement in
financial market conditions and a broad stabilization of market
indicators.”  “Bond yields and country CDS are much lower. Stock markets
have increased. Volatility is at a historical minimum. The
deposit in peripheral banks have gone up, Target 2 balances have
gone down. All in all we have signs that fragmentation is being
gradually repaired. But all of this has not found its way to the
real economy yet, so the real economy continues to be weak.”  “The real economy continues to be what was diagnosed in
our projections a month ago, so there wasn’t any reason to
change the outlook for  price stability . That’s why our
discussion has been unanimous.”  On exit plan:  “We are not thinking about an exit now, but we see that
the system, the economy, will exit when its ready. We still see
signs of significant fragmentation in the euro area.”  “You also need to see some general greater strength in the
economy. The continuation of the structural reforms process, the
regaining of competitiveness, the actions in the product
markets, all these are factors that grant a long term
improvement, not just in the financial markets.”  On lending/LTRO:  “Banks don’t lend for three reasons, one is lack of
funding, the other is risk aversion or credit risk. The
improvement in repairing fragmentation will find its way to the
economy and we will see better credit conditions through the
course of this year. We are pleased not so much that yields have
gone down but that tail risks have been removed.”  “On the LTRO, we believe that funding conditions right now
are satisfactory. I don’t think that’s where the problem is We
believe that funding conditions right now are satisfactory.
Contrary to the beginning of last year.”  “The LTRO have avoided disorderly delivering which could
have had even worse consequences on the credit flows and further
disruption to economic activity.”  “Each central bank has its own institutional setup, its
own statutory objectives and its own mandate. Each central bank
tries to steer private sector expectations.”  “We have estimates of course but the range of these
estimates is so wide that I don’t want to discuss them now. We
will know more at the end of this month when the banks will
start  repaying their first LTRO. They can repay it weekly. We
will communicate the amounts and the number of counterparties.
You will not know from us the names of the banks. On Feb. 27
they will start repaying if they do wish so the second LTRO.
They can repay on a weekly basis and everything will be
communicated on a weekly basis as well.”  On OMT:  “The OMT foresees conditionality, conditionality with ESM
and IMF presence. Means that countries have to act. It does
require an independent assessment by the governing council.”  On banking regulation and supervision:  “I think a lot of repairing has been taking place since
Lehman times. Let me also add another positive side: national
supervisors have become much more alert, active intrusive, than
they were before the financial crisis. Also the flow of new
regulation that has come out and been put into place after the
financial crisis. The liquidity rules by themselves don’t have a
direct relationship to the balance sheet. They deal more with
the funding of banks.”  “We welcome the agreement of Basel on liquidity rules.
They’re not being postponed. It’s just that there was no
agreement.”  “When you change deeply the rules for the capital you need
to give times to the banks to adjust. Not just to the banks but
also to some of the policy makers.”  On unemployment:  “Our mandate is not full employment like in the dual
mandate of the Fed. Our mandate is to maintain price
stability.”  “There are certainly some elements of the unemployment
being structurally high.”  “What’s the reason for such high youth unemployment? You
have often dual labor markets with very little protection, and
the old, the others, with protection. So you have unemployment
that gets concentrated in the younger part of the population.”  On exchange rates:  “I never comment about exchange rates but the  exchange
rate  is certainly a very important element as far as growth and
price stability is concerned and we certainly use it as part of
our growth and price stability assessment.”  “The real and effective exchange rates of the euro are at
their long term average.”  On comments from ECB board and governing council members:  “My responsibility is to convey the decisions of the gov
council, not comment on individual voices. The principal of a
single voice is essential and markets have understood this, it
seems at least to me.”  On inflation:  “Risks to inflation over the medium term are seen as
broadly balanced.”  “Underlying price pressures should remain constrained.”  “When you look at output gaps, you see the significant
levels of output gaps would justify lower levels of inflation
than we actually have. Monetary policy cannot do much about
that.”  On euro-area economy:  “The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to
extend into 2013.”  “It is essential for governments to reduce fiscal
imbalances and proceed with financial restructuring.”  “Economic Weakness is expected to expand further into this
year.”  “Risks around the economic outlook in the euro area remain
on the downside.”  “Geopolitical issues and imbalances in major
industrialized countries have the potential to” hurt economic
growth “for longer than currently predicted.”  “Subdued loan dynamics reflect the current stage of the
business cycle, heightened credit risk.”  “To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with price stability in the
medium term.”  “Further structural reforms should be rapidly implemented
to make the euro a more flexible and dynamic economy.”  “Product market reforms to increase competition are
essential.”  “We are now back in a normal situation from a financial
viewpoint but we are not at all seeing an early and strong
recovery.”  “We’re absorbing more a normalization of certain
conditions. There are signs here and there that might suggest
there is exuberance in specific localized parts of the financial
system. But so far these are fairly limited and contained
examples.”  “The risks stem essentially from lack of action by the
governments on the fiscal side. What I mean by that: Not only
fiscal consolidation is essential but also implement it in a
proper way.”  “Eventually that’s the only thing that matters for
imbalances in the euro area. It’s to create a situation where
you don’t have a permanent creditor and lots of permanent
debtors. That’s where action is needed and will continue to be
needed in the foreseeable future. You’ve seen the return of
overvaluations of certain sectors of private equity deals, in
buy outs and so on. That’s what I was referring to.”  “We have to acknowledge that significant progress has
taken place in all countries in the euro area. You look at
fiscal side, you look at current account, you look at
competitiveness, unit labor costs, you look at exports, you look
at basically all aspects of the economic activity have been
affected by reforms of different kinds, whether fiscal or
structural. The point now is not to be complacent about what’s
taken place and relax but rather keep on , persevere. Because as
we all see we start seeing the benefits and the benefits don’t
just come from the OMT, from ECB action, they come from
substantial progress that has been undertaken on the national
level first and foremost. But also let’s not forget the
significant progress that the year 2012 has brought at the euro
area governance level. We made significant steps towards greater
integration. So the beneficial effects we see today are really
the composite outcome of all these factors. We spoke a lot about
contagion when thinks go poorly but I believe there is a
positive contagion when things go well. And I think that’s also
what is in play now. There is a positive contagion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Riecher in  Frankfurt  at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  