-- Juncker Says ECB Bank-Supervisor Head to Be French Woman
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-01-10T15:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ecb-bank-supervisor-board-chief-to-be-french-woman-juncker-says.html
The new bank-supervision arm of the
 European Central Bank  will be headed by a French woman,
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker said, furthering
speculation that  France ’s Daniele Nouy is in line for the job.  “It will be done and she will be French,” Juncker, who
chairs meetings of euro-area finance ministers, told lawmakers
today at the European Parliament in Brussels. “That was agreed
informally, and more or less officially,” he told reporters
after the hearing without being more specific.  Le Figaro and other French media reported that Nouy, a
senior official at the Bank of France, was set to take the post,
which is being created as part of a move to hand the Frankfurt-
based ECB oversight of all euro-area banks. Nouy is secretary-
general of the Prudential Control Authority, the French central
bank’s regulation arm.  European Union finance ministers reached a deal last month
to put the ECB in charge of supervising all euro-area lenders in
a deal that paves the way for the currency bloc’s firewall fund
to provide direct bailouts to banks.  The accord marked a step toward tightening integration of
the monetary union to stem the financial crisis that emerged in
 Greece  in 2009. The policy makers’ goal was to break the link
between sovereign and bank debt that has undermined confidence
in  Europe ’s banking industry.  Supervisory Board  Ministers agreed that the new supervisor should be fully
operational by March 1, 2014, with the ECB able to ask for more
time if needed.  Under the deal, the head of the ECB’s planned supervisory
board would be appointed by finance ministers from participating
countries on the basis of an ECB proposal.  The final version of the bank-supervisor plan must be
hammered out in negotiations between Ireland, which holds the
rotating presidency of the EU, and lawmakers from the European
Parliament.  The parliament has binding power over a related draft law
to adjust the powers of the European Banking Authority, and is
using that to seek changes to the proposals concerning the ECB.  Sven Giegold, an EU lawmaker leading work on the measures,
said that he thought Juncker was referring to Nouy in his
remarks.  “Parliament wants co-decision rights on the appointment
and for there to be a range of candidates that can be vetted,”
Giegold said by telephone.  ‘Spirit of Compromise’  The assembly “wants a say in this, so at this stage she
can only be a candidate.”  Giegold said that governments need to show greater
willingness to compromise on aspects of the supervisory
proposals and the EBA law if they want to reach a deal soon.  “We are negotiating seriously on both files. There is a
long list of issues,” he said. “We need a spirit of compromise
on both sides.”  Points being negotiated include what powers should be
available to the EBA when it conducts stress tests of EU banks,
Giegold said.  “The EBA has the mandate to do stress testing and if they
don’t get the right data they should have the right to check
this data by paying a visit to the national regulators,” he
said. “Of course this should also apply to checks on the ECB.”  Under the EU plan, the supervisory board will be in charge
of day-to-day oversight work and preparing draft decisions to be
adopted by the ECB’s Governing Council.  Juncker’s announcement that the appointee will be a French
woman follows complaints by the European Parliament of a lack of
women in senior positions at the ECB. The dispute last year
delayed the appointment of Yves Mersch to the ECB’s Executive
Board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  