-- ECB Takes Collateral Rules Very Seriously, Is Tightening Control
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-01-10T16:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ecb-takes-collateral-rules-very-seriously-is-tightening-control.html
The  European Central Bank  is
tightening control of the way national central banks accept
collateral from private lenders after irregularities in  France 
and  Spain .  “We take these incidents very, very seriously,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  told journalists in Frankfurt today.
“We’ve decided to create a data quality compliance network and
an ECB unit that are responsible for, first monitoring the data
quality, by performing regular checks and reports and prompting
improvements in national-central-bank processes and procedures,
internal controls as well.”  In both cases, the national central banks that are part of
the euro system applied smaller-than-usual haircuts to
collateral offered by private lenders in return for liquidity.  The Bank of Spain had based its credit-quality assessment
of Spanish treasury bills on the ‘A Low’ sovereign rating issued
by DBRS Inc. That’s two steps higher than  Fitch Ratings  and
three steps higher than Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s . It’s also higher than the ratings the three firms apply
to individual bills issued by Spain.  According to ECB rules, issue ratings of securities pledged
as collateral take priority over issuer ratings. The ECB takes
smaller haircuts on securities with an A-rating, according to
the central bank’s website.  The Bank of France said this week a technical problem
resulted in the reduced haircut on a “small number of
securities” last summer, though the matter was corrected by the
end of August.  In the case of Spain “it was a issue of interpretation,
this time there were objective technical difficulties that had
been addressed by the Banque de France,” Draghi said today.
“We are doing everything we can to prevent these incidents and
to fix them when they happen.”  “Right now we have to strengthen the governance of this
process,” he said. “And then we will certainly reassess the
situation after that and see if the steps we have taken were
sufficient.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  