-- Medicare Must Change, Even If Its Eligibility Age Doesn’t
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-01-10T23:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/medicare-must-change-even-if-its-eligibility-age-doesn-t.html
One tempting idea for saving money
on Medicare, a program that vacuums up some 15 percent of
federal spending, is to raise the age at which Americans become
eligible for it.  We ourselves  have  succumbed  to this  temptation ,
on  more  than  one occasion .  Raising the eligibility age a couple of years, to 67,
remains an attractive idea; it would save the program a lot of
money. It’s just that there are a lot of other things  Washington 
should try first.  Before we get to those, allow us to explain our newfound
hesitation: Raising the eligibility age is neither as simple nor
as effective as many of its proponents claim. Just raise the age
gradually, they say, and save as much as  $113 billion  over 10
years. As an added benefit, you would encourage some Americans
to retire a bit later. After all, the average 65-year-old today
can expect to live  a few years longer  than someone the same age
could expect in 1965 when the Medicare age was set.  The problem is that such a change would do little to
control overall health-care costs, which should be the ultimate
goal of all health-care reform. If 65- and 66-year-olds can no
longer receive Medicare, they would have to find other health
insurance. Some would remain on their employer plans. Some would
fall back on Medicaid. Some would join the people shopping for
insurance on the state exchanges, perhaps qualifying for federal
subsidies.  If the eligibility age were raised by two months a year
beginning in 2014, according to the  Congressional Budget Office ,
Medicare would save $148 billion from 2012 to 2021. However,
increased federal spending on things such as Medicaid and
insurance subsidies would reduce overall federal savings to $113
billion.  Other Hardships  Yes, that’d be a nice savings for the government, and
goodness knows it could use the money. For many 65- and 66-year-
olds -- as well as their employers or former employers -- it
would cause a hardship. They would need to pay for their own
health insurance, typically at a cost higher than that of
Medicare. The net effect would be to make the U.S. health-care
system more expensive.  A  2011 study  by the  Kaiser Family Foundation  estimated that
two-thirds of people age 65 and 66 would pay more out of pocket
and on premiums than they would have paid on Medicare. The study
also found that premiums for many other Americans would rise:
Those for insurance plans sold on state exchanges would increase
by 3 percent (about $141 per enrollee), because the addition of
all those older people to the pool would increase the average
cost of care. Likewise, premiums for Medicare Part B (for
outpatient care) would rise.  Wouldn’t it be smarter to look for other Medicare savings
that would not have such expensive side effects?  In his  budget proposal for 2013 , President  Barack Obama 
outlined a long list of possible Medicare savings: By no longer
 overpaying hospitals  for the cost of medical residencies, for
instance, the program could save $10 billion over a decade. By
raising the premiums charged to higher-income beneficiaries, it
could save $28 billion. By reducing the amount that Medicare
reimburses health-care providers for beneficiaries’ nonpayment
of deductibles and copayments (to bring it in line with what
private insurers reimburse), it could save an additional $36
billion.  And here’s a big one: By requiring drugmakers to issue
Medicaid-level rebates for medicines prescribed to beneficiaries
who also qualify for Medicaid, Medicare could save $135 billion
over 10 years.  Change Model  What’s more, Medicare could realize uncounted savings by
moving faster to dump the old-fashioned fee-for-service model in
favor of paying a fixed amount for bundles of health care or
even for all the care an individual patient requires. A group of
prominent health-care-policy experts writing in the New England
Journal of Medicine in September  recommended  that within 10
years, the program should be able to base at least three-
quarters of its payments on something other than fee-for-
service.  This is only a partial list of strategies, but it
illustrates the range of ideas for saving Medicare money. To
preserve the program for future generations -- and to help the
federal government get its budget in order -- Medicare’s costs
will have to be reduced. At some point it may even be necessary
to increase the eligibility age to help Medicare remain solvent.
But not yet.  The greater ambition is a humane, effective and efficient
health-care system -- public and private, subsidized and not.
Any changes to Medicare should endeavor to bring the U.S. closer
to this goal.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 