-- Temasek Group Pares Stake in Shin Through $687 Million Sale
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-01-10T04:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/temasek-group-pares-shin-stake-with-20-9-billion-baht-stock-sale.html
Temasek Holdings Pte and its
partners sold 20.9 billion baht ($687 million) of  Shin Corp. (INTUCH) 
shares, paring its stake in the company that controls the
biggest Thai mobile-phone operator.  Singapore ’s state-owned  investment company  and its partners
in Cedar Holdings Ltd. sold 330 million Shin shares at 63.25
baht each, Shin said in a statement. That was a 5.6 percent
discount to the close yesterday, and cuts the group’s stake to
about 13.3 percent from 23.6 percent, according to Shin.  “It has always been the strategy of Temasek to pare down
its investments in telecommunications companies across the
region,” said Thapana Phanich, an analyst with Deutsche Bank AG
in Bangkok. “I expect them to sell another stake in Shin Corp.
However, they might want to maintain a slim majority.”  Temasek, which managed S$198 billion ($161 billion) of
assets as of March 2012, said in June it’s seeking investment
opportunities as the turmoil in  Europe  may result in a market
slump rivaling the 2008 global financial crisis. The company
sold shares of  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd. (ST)  last year, the
biggest holding in its portfolio.  The state-owned investment company said in an e-mailed
statement that Cedar is an associate and it’s not in a position
to comment on the offer as a minority holder.  Shares of Shin fell 3.7 percent in Bangkok, poised for
their  biggest drop  since August 27. The benchmark SET Index rose
0.1 percent.  Thai NVDR  About 80 percent of the shares were sold to Thai NVDR Co.,
and the rest to Thai investors, Shin said.  Thai NVDR was established by the Stock Exchange of  Thailand 
in 2000 to boost investment in Thai stocks, according to the
bourse’s  website . Investors in NVDRs don’t have  voting rights ,
though receive the same financial benefits as holders of a
company’s ordinary shares. The use of NVDRs allows Thai
companies and overseas investors to circumvent Thailand’s
foreign ownership restrictions.  A Temasek-led group bought Shin in 2006 from the family of
 Thaksin Shinawatra , who was Thailand’s prime minister at the
time, and later raised its stake in the company to more than 96
percent. Temasek now owns 42 percent of Shin, and Cedar has a 13
percent stake, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Temasek bought Shin through Aspen, a wholly-owned unit, and
Cedar, in which it had a 49 percent stake, Temasek said at the
time of the original purchase. The partners in Cedar were  Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB)  and Kularb Kaew Co., according to Temasek.  Aspen Queried  Kularb Kaew is 28 percent owned by Temasek unit Cypress
Holdings and Thai investors own the remainder, the Nation
newspaper reported in 2006, citing an unidentified official at
Thailand’s commerce ministry. Cypress has 90 percent of the
voting rights in Kularb Kaew, with Thai shareholders limited to
10 percent, the Nation said. Temasek declined to comment on
voting rights at the time.  Shin said it asked Temasek’s Aspen whether it also plans to
sell shares.  “Aspen has informed the company that it has no immediate
plan to sell its shares in the company and remains confident in
the business and management of the company,” Somprasong
Boonyachai, a Shin director, said in the exchange statement.  Shin gets almost all of its earnings from its 40 percent
stake in  Advanced Info Service Pcl (ADVANC) , Thailand’s biggest mobile-
phone company. Shin also owns 41 percent of  Thaicom Pcl (THCOM) , the
nation’s satellite operator, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The stake sale by Temasek’s group was first reported by
FinanceAsia. The sale was managed by Credit Suisse Group AG and
Morgan Stanley, along with Bualuang Securities Pcl and Siam
Commercial Bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  