-- Emerging Stocks Climb as China Trade Data Boosts Shippers
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-10T22:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/emerging-market-stocks-climb-as-china-trade-data-lifts-cyclicals.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed the
most in a week, boosted by companies tied to economic growth, as
better-than-estimated Chinese trade figures added to signs the
Asian nation is emerging from its slowdown.  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055)  and  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) ,
climbed at least 7 percent in Hong Kong, leading gains among
airlines, shipping companies and raw-material producers.
 Vietnamese stocks  entered a bull market as the prime minister
reiterated that the central bank must pursue policies this year
that boost growth. Cia. Hering,  Brazil ’s third-biggest apparel
retailer, slumped the most since June 2009 on weaker sales. The
MSCI EM Eastern  Europe  Index climbed to a four-month high.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  rose 0.4 percent to 1076.99
in New York, the steepest advance since Jan. 3.  China ’s exports
increased 14.1 percent in December from a year earlier, while
imports added 6 percent, the customs office said today. The
European Central Bank kept its benchmark interest rate on hold
as its president, Mario Draghi, said a gradual recovery in the
euro-area economy should start later this year.  “That’s some good news on the European economic growth
front and will attract investors to look into eastern European
 emerging markets ,” Esther Law, the director of emerging-market
strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , said in a phone
interview today. “The China exports number is also quite
encouraging and external demand is recovering. This is a
genuinely good number.”  ‘Great Rotation’  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, gained 0.9
percent to 44.83. The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, dropped for a third day,
falling 2.1 percent.  China will have a bigger influence than the U.S. or Europe
over the economies of developing nations as the world’s biggest
exporter increases its contribution to global growth, according
to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)  The trade data burnishes the outlook for
the world’s biggest exporter, which has already seen gains in
retail sales and manufacturing over the past two months.  “We are moving away from a U.S.- or Europe-led world to a
world led by China,” Stephen King, HSBC’s chief economist,
wrote in an Emerging Markets Index report published today.
“China will make its biggest-ever contribution to global growth
in 2014,” King said, in what he termed a “great rotation.”  U.S. jobless claims unexpectedly rose last week, Labor
Department figures showed today, a sign that improvement in the
labor market remains uneven. Initial jobless claims reflect
weekly firings and tend to fall as job growth accelerates.  Vietnam Bull  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
traded in Hong Kong added 1 percent, while the  Shanghai 
Composite Index rose 0.4 percent. South Korea’s Kospi index
jumped 0.8 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex added 0.9 percent. Equity
volumes were higher than average in China, Taiwan and South
Korea, with trading on the Shanghai gauge 20 percent above the
30-day average and 44 percent higher on Taiwan’s Taiex Index.  Vietnam ’s benchmark VN Index surged 23 percent from a
closing low on Nov. 2. An advance of 20 percent or more from a
low signals a bull market to some investors. Prime Minister
Nguyen Tan Dung ordered the central bank to pursue monetary
policies in 2013 that balance curbing inflation with increased
commercial lending and economic growth, maintain the value of
the dong and resolve bad debts at lenders, according to a
statement on the central bank’s website today.  The  MSCI EM Eastern Europe (MXME)  increased 0.3 percent to 210.83,
the highest close sine Sept. 17. Hungary’s BUX Index added 0.2
percent, the highest close since Nov. 14, while  Poland ’s WIG20
Index rose 0.2 percent, gaining for a second day.  Rate Cut  The  Nairobi Securities Exchange Ltd 20 Share Index (KNSMIDX) 
increased 0.3 percent to the highest level since February 2011.
Kenya’s central bank lowered its key lending rate to 9.5 percent
from 11 percent, the fourth cut since July, as policy makers try
to sustain an economic rebound with cheaper credit.  The Bovespa Index added 0.2 percent in Sao Paulo. Hering,
the Brazilian chain known for affordable jeans and T-shirts,
fell 12 percent to lead declines on the emerging-markets gauge,
as sales retreated in the fourth quarter.  Preferred shares of  AES Tiete SA (GETI3)   jumped 3.7 percent to
lead gains by power utilities after Energy Minister Edison Lobao
said rates may rise if a lack of rain reduces output at
hydropower dams and forces the use of natural-gas plants to meet
demand.  Technology Stocks  A  gauge  of technology stocks in the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index snapped a five-day slide, climbing 1.1 percent. The
broader index has risen 2.1 percent this year, trailing a 3
percent gain by the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country
stocks. The developing-nations measure trades at 11 times
estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of
13.3, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Southern rose 7.8 percent to lead gains on the index,
while China Cosco jumped 7.3 percent in Hong Kong to the highest
level since April 19.  Growth in China’s overseas shipments beat the 5 percent
median estimate of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Exports
rose 2.9 percent in November on an annual basis. Asia’s biggest
economy probably expanded 7.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the
median of 33 estimates showed, from 7.4 percent in the three
months to Sept. 30. Gross domestic product data is scheduled to
be released next week.  Gas Companies  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the world’s largest buyer of liquefied
natural gas, advanced 5.2 percent, the biggest gain since Nov.
1.  Russia ’s Micex Index fell 0.6 percent, snapping two days of
gains.  Dana Gas PJSC (DANA)  added 4.1 percent in Abu Dhabi, the highest
close since March 5, on bets the United Arab Emirates fuel
producer will collect outstanding payments in Iraq and  Egypt ,
boosting its earnings outlook.  India ’s  Oil and Natural Gas Corp.  rose 3.4 percent in
Mumbai, its seventh day of gains, in the longest winning streak
since December 2010. The stock reached the highest price since
May 2011 amid expectations the government may raise diesel and
cooking gas prices, reducing the state-run explorer’s subsidy
obligations.  Eurocash SA (EUR) , Poland’s biggest distributor of non-durable
consumer goods, jumped 3.8 percent to close at the highest level
since its 2005 debut on the bourse in Warsaw, after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. started coverage on the stock with an overweight
recommendation.  OAO Magnit, Russia’s biggest retailer, rose 1.7 percent in
London trading, gaining for the first time in four days. The
company’s net retail sales rose 34 percent last year, it said in
a statement today.  Currencies Strengthen  Twelve-month  yuan  forwards strengthened 0.4 percent to
6.2685 per dollar in Hong Kong, the biggest gain since Jan. 18,
2012. The yuan traded 0.03 percent higher at 6.2245 per dollar
in Shanghai, near a 19-year high of 6.2216 reached yesterday.  The Romanian leu led gains in emerging market currencies,
strengthening 0.6 percent to an nine-month high against the
euro. The Finance Ministry will sell 600 million lei ($179
million) in four-year bonds at an auction today. The Czech
koruna weakened against the euro after Governor Miroslav Singer
said the central bank may sell the currency this year to help
stem the country’s recession. The Russian ruble appreciated 0.6
percent against the dollar.  Malaysia’s ringgit gained against the dollar for a fourth
day, its longest winning streak since November, after data
showed factory output increased by more than forecast in
November.  Indonesia ’s rupiah dropped to the weakest level since
September 2009. The nation’s central bank kept its benchmark
interest rate unchanged for an 11th straight meeting as a slide
in the currency threatens to stoke price pressures.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 258, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  