-- Lender Review of Borrowers Tightened Under Mortgage Rules
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-01-10T21:35:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/lender-review-of-borrowers-tightened-under-mortgage-rules.html
Lenders will for the first time be
required by the government to verify borrowers’ ability to repay
mortgages by confirming income and assets under a rule issued
today by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  The rule, mandated by Congress in response to lax
underwriting standards before the 2008 financial crisis, will
also offer some legal protection for lenders who follow
guidelines for so-called qualified mortgages, according to an e-
mailed statement by the bureau. The measure also insulates
issuers of qualified mortgages at prime interest rates from
future lawsuits.  David Moskowitz, deputy general counsel at  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. home lender, said that the rule is
“entirely consistent with how we think about underwriting” at
the San Francisco-based company.  “The true impact will not be known until the rule is made
operational by lenders in the year ahead,” Moskowitz said at a
field hearing held by the CFPB on the rule in Baltimore today.  The rule takes effect Jan. 10, 2014, according to the
statement.  CFPB Director Richard Cordray said that the rule strikes
the right balance between protecting consumers and promoting
lending.  “No standard is perfect, but this standard draws a clear
line that will provide a real measure of protection to borrowers
and increased certainty to the mortgage market,” Cordray said
at the hearing.  Underwriting Phase  The qualified mortgage rule will apply to home loans in the
underwriting phase, whether made by banks such as  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp.  and Wells Fargo, or
non-depository originators.  “Our assessment of the broad contours of the rule leads us
to believe that the rule is less constrictive on mortgage credit
than once thought, which translates to increased ease and
certainty in the mortgage origination process,” Isaac Boltansky, a policy analyst with Compass Point Research and
Trading LLC in Washington wrote in an e-mailed note yesterday.  The rule on repayment ability is the first in a series to
be issued by the CFPB that will shape the mortgage market. The
bureau will unveil rules on mortgage servicing at a Jan. 17
hearing in Atlanta. Those rules will apply equally to banks and
non-bank servicers such as  Ocwen Financial Corp. (OCN)   Other rules to be issued by the bureau will cover
appraisals and loan-officer compensation. The agency has also
proposed simplifying the documents borrowers receive when
applying for and concluding a mortgage.  ‘Right Direction’  Representative John Delaney, a Maryland Democrat, said that
the rule is “an important step in the right direction so we can
lay a road map for the private sector to get back into the
mortgage markets.”  In an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Peter Cook  for
“Capitol Gains,” which airs Jan. 13, Delaney said the housing-
finance market needs revamping because “we cannot sustain the
trajectory we are on” in which “the government provides 90
percent of the financing” for mortgages.  For qualified mortgages, borrowers must have a debt-to-
income ratio of 43 percent or less. Loans that do not meet that
criterion but are eligible for purchase, guarantee or insurance
by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  or  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , or are issued by some government
agencies, will be considered qualified mortgages for as long as
seven years.  Fee Limit  Qualified mortgages must also limit points and fees to 3
percent of the total loan amount, according to the bureau.
Features that proved highly risky during the housing bubble,
such as negative amortization, interest-only payments and terms
exceeding 30 years, are also prohibited for qualified mortgages.  The level of legal protection will depend on the cost of
the loan, and will be defined by a regulation approved by the
Federal Reserve in 2008 governing the underwriting of higher-
priced loans. Prime loans will enjoy a so-called safe harbor
from litigation, while loans that fall under the Fed definition
can be more easily challenged in court.  The legal protections apply only to this regulation.
Borrowers can still sue lenders under existing federal consumer-
protection statutes.  The legal protection “does not take away any consumer
rights; it adds to them,” Cordray said at the Baltimore
hearing. “And for lenders who make qualified mortgages or
determine the consumer’s ability to repay over the life of the
loan, this rule will foster  consumer confidence  and improved
conditions in the marketplace.”  ‘Sustainable’ Credit  Debra Still, chairman of the Mortgage Bankers Association,
a trade group, applauded the decision to include a safe harbor.  “This approach should allow lenders to offer sustainable
mortgage credit to a great number of qualified borrowers without
having to risk unreasonable and overly punitive litigation and
penalties,” Still, who is the chief executive of Englewood,
Colorado-based Pulte Mortgage LLC, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The safe harbor provision should make banks less hesitant
to lend, said Ron Peltier, chief executive officer of the real-
estate brokerage business at  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)   “You’ve got some clear pathways to be able to do business,
which I think has been lacking,” he said in a phone interview
today. “Banks are loaded with capital and they don’t want to
lend to anybody” because, before today, they didn’t know the
rules, he said.  ‘Invites’ Abuses  Alys Cohen, a staff attorney with the National Consumer Law
Center, charged that the bureau’s new rule “invites abusive
lending” and undermines the goals of the Dodd-Frank law.  “The safe harbor the Bureau has afforded for prime loans
provides absolute shelter to lenders who knowingly make
unaffordable loans, in direct violation of congressional
intent,” Cohen said in an e-mailed statement.  Mike Calhoun, president of the Durham, North Carolina-based
Center for Responsible Lending, praised the CFPB’s approach.  “The standard CFPB establishes for a safe, well-
underwritten mortgage is appropriately broad enough to include
the vast majority of creditworthy home owners, and it is clear
enough for lenders and borrowers alike to understand,” Calhoun
said in an e-mailed statement.  The CFPB is also requesting comment on additions to the
rule that would make exceptions for certain government programs
aimed at alleviating the effects of the housing crisis. Another
would limit the rule’s impact on small banks and credit unions
that make loans and hold them in their portfolio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  