-- Estonia’s Parts Says LNG Terminal Agreement Needed Soon
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-01-10T10:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/estonia-s-parts-says-lng-terminal-agreement-needed-soon.html
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and
 Finland  need to agree soon where to put a regional liquefied
natural gas terminal to avoid delaying European Union aid for
the project, Estonian Economy Minister Juhan Parts said.  Consensus is needed on the $1.7 billion terminal’s site
before an accord is reached on energy infrastructure financing
in the EU’s Connecting Europe Facility for 2014-2020, which may
happen as soon as next month, Parts said in an interview in
Tallinn yesterday.  The three Baltic countries and Finland  plan to build  a
regional LNG terminal with EU funding as part of a strategy to
reduce dependence on  Russia ’s OAO Gazprom, their only natural
gas supplier. Estonia and Finland are best placed for a regional
terminal, the European Commission said in a study published last
November, after three post-communist countries failed to agree
on a location and asked for the EU’s ruling.  “We’re still a bit short of regional consensus and we need
to achieve it in a month or two,” Parts said. “It would be
very regrettable if we missed this window for making an
investment decision. We need a consensus on the location by the
time EU’s new financial perspective is adopted.”  Potential annual demand for the terminal is for about 11
billion cubic meters of natural gas,  according  to the study by
consultants Booz & Co.  EU funding is “vital” for a regional terminal, Antero Jaennes, the chief executive officer of Gasum Oy, the Finnish
grid operator, said in November. Finland’s government said in
June the Nordic country should strive to connect its natural gas
network to central  Europe ’s via Estonia to create competition in
the industry.  Lithuania’s Klaipedos Nafta is building a floating LNG
terminal, due to be completed by the third quarter of 2014.
Norway’s Hoegh LNG last November signed a $250 million loan with
four banks for that project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  