-- Estonia to Retract Pledge on Wind Energy Subsidy Limits
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-01-10T08:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/estonia-to-retract-pledge-on-wind-energy-subsidy-limits.html
Estonia  will keep an annual cap on
the volume of wind energy eligible for subsidies, retracting a
pledge to a renewable energy lobby last year, to lower power
costs and limit the amount of subsidized output, Economy
Minister Juhan Parts said.  Wind energy subsidies will be capped at the current total
output of 600 gigawatts per year in the amended electricity
market legislation under consideration in Parliament, Parts said
in an interview in Tallinn yesterday. In July, it agreed with
the Estonian Renewable Energy Association to  remove the ceiling 
in exchange for cutting the size of the support.  The renewable energy subsidies, paid for by consumers
through their energy bills, will be linked to the market price
of electricity and decline 15 percent to 20 percent once the new
system is adopted and gets clearance for state aid from the
European Commission. Total savings for consumers will be as much
as 300 million euros until 2020, the Cabinet said last October.  “There is an alternative view in the market that the
annual cap makes sense, but that the existing and planned
investments should be treated more equally than the solution
offered by the renewable energy association,” Parts said.
“We’re certainly not worsening the investment environment. This
bill has to be viewed in the context of market opening, while
the 2007 law was based on closed market ideology.”  An increase in subsidies in 2007 led to new investment by
companies including  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , the second-largest Nordic
utility, and Nelja Energia OU, majority owned by  Norway ’s Vardar
AS.  Power Output  Estonian wind parks produced an estimated 450 gigawatts of
electricity last year, the Estonian Wind Power Association said
on its  website  last month. Output will probably exceed the 600-
gigawatt ceiling already this year after two new windparks were
completed, it said. Changes to subsidies for existing plants
will force investors to seek legal action, it added.  The European Renewable Energies Federation lobby group said
last February any retroactive move would violate  European Union
law .  The Baltic country liberalized the remaining two-thirds of
its power market this month, with electricity prices for
consumers seen rising by about 20 percent as Estonia must start
buying carbon emission permits for its power production,
according to state-owned Eesti Energia AS.  That may boost average inflation this year by as much as
0.9 percentage points, the central bank said last month.  Renewables Consumption  Electricity from renewables made up 13.5 percent of
Estonia’s consumption in the third quarter of 2012, compared
with 13 percent a year earlier, grid operator Elering AS said
Oct. 31. Sixty-one percent of output from renewables came from
biomass and biogas, while wind and hydroenergy made up 37
percent and 2 percent, respectively, it said.  “We can’t accept that the electricity price will exceed
the level proposed by the government’s draft, this is a red line
for us,” Parts said. “Also, the government has to keep the
control over the overall level of subsidized renewables, this is
another red line.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  