-- EU Seeks Vote on Carbon Registry on Jan. 23, Document Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-01-10T11:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/eu-seeks-vote-on-carbon-registry-on-jan-23-document-shows-1-.html
The European Union scheduled a vote
on Jan. 23 on draft carbon-registry regulation that may include
limits on some imported emission credits and is seeking further
talks on a permit-supply fix, according to an EU document.  The European Commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm, wants
to restrict the use of some Emission Reduction Units, or ERUs,
from countries that fail to adopt new carbon goals under the
United Nations  Kyoto Protocol  as of this year. Experts from
national governments in the EU Climate Change Committee are set
to vote on the proposal in the first part of the Jan. 23
meeting, according to the document, which was obtained by
 Bloomberg News .  European law allows companies in the EU emissions trading
system, or ETS, to use international  carbon offsets , including
ERUs, as a cheaper form of compliance with their greenhouse-gas
quotas. The Commission declined to comment on draft regulations.  The commission said after the previous meeting of the
climate committee on Dec. 13 that consensus is growing among
governments on a plan to bar emitters from holding in their
accounts ERUs issued after April 2013 that represent carbon cuts
made before the end of 2012 in countries without emission
targets for 2013-2020. That would apply to projects which are
approved by UN regulators for issuance of credits in a procedure
known as Track Two.  Track One  The EU regulator didn’t comment last month on another
amendment it was seeking in a draft of the regulation in
October, which would bar EU emitters from holding in their
accounts ERUs issued after 2012 by countries such as  Russia  that
generate the credits in a procedure overseen by governments,
known as Track One.  ERUs are generated under the UN Joint Implementation
program, which encourages investments in low-carbon energy by
industrialized countries in other nations that have emission-
reduction goals under the Kyoto Protocol. The first so-called
commitment period under the treaty expired in 2012 and the
second will run from 2013 to 2020, the UN decided at a climate
summit last month in Doha.  JI projects are hosted by some EU nations and countries
including Russia and Ukraine. While the EU agreed to adopt
targets under the second Kyoto commitment period, Russia
declined to sign up to a new set of goals.  Delay Auctions  Member states  will also continue discussions on Jan. 23 on
the commission’s proposal to delay auctions of 900 million
carbon permits in the three years through 2015, according to the
EU document. Several nations, including the U.K. and  Germany ,
were undecided at their previous meeting about whether they
would back the measure, known as backloading, an EU official,
who declined to be identified, said last month.  European governments may formally vote on the strategy
after the region’s parliament decides on a related amendment to
the emissions  law , according to the EU. Matthias Groote, a
German member of the parliament who oversees the legislative
change, said in November he’s seeking to bring the assembly’s
vote on the measure forward by a month to March.  ERUs for December rose 4.2 percent to 50 euro cents ($0.66)
a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of 11:03 a.m.
in  London . EU allowances for December lost 0.3 percent to 6.19
euros. They fell 16 percent in 2012.  The agenda of the Jan. 23 meeting of the climate committee
also includes information on determining the final cap for
emitters in 2013 and beyond, the transitional common auctioning
platform and emission curbs on aviation, the document shows. The
commission is also due to provide an update on the talks to link
the EU cap-and-trade system with programs in Australia and
 Switzerland , according to the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  