-- Leucadia to Tender Inmet Shares to First Quantum Offer
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2013-01-10T22:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/leucadia-to-tender-inmet-shares-to-first-quantum-offer.html
Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) ,  Inmet
Mining Corp. (IMN) ’s largest shareholder, plans to tender shares in
the Canadian mining company in support of  First Quantum Minerals
Ltd. (FM) ’s C$5.1 billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid for Inmet.  Leucadia holds about 11 million shares, or about 15.92
percent of Inmet, the New York-based holding company said
yesterday in a statement. The company said it intends to tender
its shares “in the absence of changed circumstances or new
information” including another transaction that would provide
greater value.  “This gives First Quantum a jump start,”  George Topping ,
a Toronto-based analyst at Stifel Financial Corp., said
yesterday in a telephone interview. First Quantum executives
“are shrewd operators and will have done a lot of groundwork
before going hostile, putting them in a good position to take
Inmet.”  First Quantum took its C$72-a-share offer in cash and stock
straight to Inmet investors on Jan. 9 as it seeks to gain
control of a copper project in  Panama . The Vancouver-based
company’s offer requires acceptance by holders of 66 percent of
Inmet shares. First Quantum said it’s been in talks with
shareholders since December.  Inmet  fell  0.5 percent to C$71.92 at the close in Toronto
yesterday, while First Quantum rose 2.2 percent to C$21.05.  Deal Premium  The offer is 36 percent more than Inmet’s closing price on
Nov. 27, the day before Toronto-based Inmet said it rejected two
previous unsolicited proposals from First Quantum. Inmet has to
respond to the offer by Jan. 24 while shareholders have until
Feb. 14 to decide whether to back it, First Quantum President
 Clive Newall  said Jan. 9.  Laura Ulbrandt, a spokeswoman for Leucadia, didn’t return a
call seeking comment.  David Ryan , an external spokesman for
Inmet, declined to comment on Leucadia’s statement.  Inmet stockholders are being offered First Quantum shares,
cash, or a combination of both resulting in a total mix of about
50 percent in shares and 50 percent in cash. The cash component
of the latest offer will be financed through existing cash
resources, undrawn financing facilities of $1.25 billion and a
$2.5 billion acquisition facility provided by Standard Chartered
Bank, First Quantum said.  Cobre Panama is the second largest of the copper projects
under construction, after Rio Tinto Group’s Oyu Tolgoi mine in
 Mongolia , according to a November presentation posted on Inmet’s
website. The project will cost about $6.2 billion and produce an
average of 266,000 metric tons a year of the metal, which has
more than quadrupled in price in the past 10 years in  New York .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Jefferies Group Inc. and Royal
Bank of Canada are advising First Quantum.  Jefferies Group, a New York-based investment bank, agreed
to be acquired by Leucadia in November.  Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and law firm Torys LLP
are advising Inmet. Scotiabank is financial adviser to the
special committee of the Inmet board and Osler, Hoskin &
Harcourt LLP is its legal counsel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  