-- European Stocks Drop From 22 Month-High; Richemont Falls
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-01-10T17:14:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/europe-stock-futures-rise-as-china-exports-beat-forecasts.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined from a 22-
month high as European Central Bank policy makers kept the
benchmark  interest rate  at a record low.  Cie. Financiere Richemont SA fell 2.1 percent after peer
Tiffany & Co. said full-year earnings will be at the lower end
of its forecast.  Sanofi (SAN)  lost 0.7 percent after U.S. regulators
cut the recommended dosage of some drugs including those sold by
the French company.  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj surged 11 percent after saying its
handset business probably saw a profit in the fourth quarter.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 0.3 percent to 287.44
at the close of trading. The gauge last week surged 3.3 percent
after U.S. lawmakers agreed on a compromise budget to prevent
most scheduled tax increases and delay spending cuts.  “We’ve seen a slightly less accommodating ECB in terms of
movement on rates,” said  Michael Hewson , a market analyst at
CMC Markets Plc in  London . “That caution has been tempered by
concerns about the economic outlook. Markets are at multi-month
highs. Given how skittish investors are, it wouldn’t take much
to trigger a small sell-off.”  The volume of shares changing hands on Stoxx 600 companies
was 85 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  today left the
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by
 50 out of 55 economists  in a Bloomberg News survey.  Draghi Comments  “A gradual recovery should start” later this year as the
lender’s measures work their way through the euro-area economy,
ECB President  Mario Draghi  said at a news conference in
Frankfurt after the rate announcement.  The  Bank of England  also held its interest rate at a
record-low 0.5 percent, in line with economists’ predictions.  National benchmark indexes rose in 10 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 was little changed.
France’s CAC 40 retreated 0.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX declined
0.2 percent.  Richemont, the world’s biggest luxury jewelry maker,
retreated 2.1 percent to 76 Swiss francs after Tiffany said
full-year profit excluding some items will be at the lower end
of its previous forecast of $3.20 to $3.40 a share.  Sanofi, whose Ambien drug uses zolpidem, declined 0.7
percent to 73.34 euros after the U.S. Food & Drug Administration
lowered women’s recommended dosage of sleep aids containing the
ingredient.  CaixaBank (CABK) , the Spanish lender that yesterday sold 1 billion
euros of three-year senior debt, fell 5.5 percent to 2.98 euros
after rising 12 percent on Wednesday.  Nokia Profitability  Nokia surged 11 percent to 3.32 euros. The Finnish mobile-
phone maker seeking to reverse falling sales said operating
profit at its handset unit, excluding some items, was at a
break-even level or as much as 2 percent of sales. In October,
the company projected an operating loss for the unit of 6
percent of sales, plus or minus 4 percentage points.  Tesco gained 1.8 percent to 355.4 pence. The U.K.’s biggest
grocer reported the strongest sales growth since 2010 as money-
off coupons and an enhanced food offering helped spark a
revival. U.K. sales at stores open at least a year rose 1.8
percent in the six weeks ended Jan. 5, excluding gasoline and
value-added taxes.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs power Apple’s iPhones,
added 4.4 percent to 863.5 pence after Dialog Semiconductor
reported a 56 percent increase in fourth-quarter revenue to $268
million.  MAN SE (MAN)  gained 3.5 percent to 86.94 euros.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
Europe’s largest carmaker, will offer to buy out the rest of the
German truckmaker’s shareholders to take full control of the
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net ;
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  