-- European Central Bank President Draghi News Conference (Text)
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-01-10T15:51:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/european-central-bank-president-draghi-news-conference-text-.html
Following is a transcript of
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi’s comments from his
monthly news conference in Frankfurt today:  MARIO DRAGHI, PRESIDENT, EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK: Ladies and
gentlemen, first things first. Let me introduce the new director
general of communication, Ms. Christine Graeff. She will be with
us during this press conference.  The vice president and I are very pleased to welcome you to
our press conference. Let me wish you all of you a happy new
year. We’ll now report on the outcome of today’s meeting of the
Governing Council.  Based on our regular economic and monetary analysis, we’ve
decided to keep the key ECB interest rates unchanged. HICP
inflation rates have declined over recent months, as
anticipated, and are expected to fall below 2 percent this year.  Over the policy-relevant horizon, inflationary pressures
should remain contained. The underlying pace of monetary
expansion continues to be subdued. Inflation expectations for
the euro area remain firmly anchored in line with our aim of
maintaining inflation rates below, but close to 2 percent over
the medium term.  The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to
extend into 2013. In particular, necessary balance sheet
adjustments in financial and non-financial sectors and
persistent uncertainty will continue to weigh on economic
activity.  Later, in 2013, economic activity should gradually recover.
In particular, our accommodative monetary policy stance,
together with significantly proved financial market confidence
and reduced fragmentation, should work its way through the
economy, and global demand should strengthen. In order to
sustain confidence, it is essential for governments to reduce
further both fiscal and structural imbalances and to proceed
with financial sector restructuring.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail,
starting with the economic analysis. Following a contraction of
0.2 percent quarter on quarter in the second quarter of 2012,
euro area real GDP declined by 0.1 percent in the third quarter.
Available statistics and survey indicators continue to signal
further weakness in activity, which is expected to extend into
this year, reflecting the adverse impact on domestic expenditure
of weak consumer and investor sentiment and subdued foreign
demand.  However, more recently several conjunctural indicators have
broadly stabilized, albeit at low levels, and financial market
confidence has improved significantly. Later, in 2013, a gradual
recovery should start, as our accommodative monetary policy
stance, the significant improvement in financial market
confidence, and reduced fragmentation work their way through to
private domestic expenditure, and a strengthening of foreign
demand should support export growth.  The risk surrounding the economic outlook for the euro area
remain on the downside. They are mainly related to slow
implementation of structural reforms in the euro area,
geopolitical issues, and imbalances in major industrialized
countries. These factors have the potential to dampen sentiment
for longer than currently assumed and delay further the recovery
of private investment employment and consumption.  According to Eurostat’s flash estimate, euro area annual
HICP inflation was 2.2 percent in December 2012, unchanged from
November and down from 2.5 percent in October and 2.6 percent in
August and September. On the basis of current future prices for
oil, inflation rates are expected to decline further to below 2
percent this year.  Over the policy-relevant horizon, in an environment of weak
economic activity in the euro area, and well anchored long-term
inflation expectations, underlying price pressures should remain
contained. Risks to the outlook for price developments are seen
as broadly balanced in - over the medium term, with downside
risks stemming from weaker economic activity and upside risks
relating to higher administered prices and indirect taxes, as
well as higher  oil prices .  Turning to the monetary analysis, the underlying pace of
monetary expansion continues to be subdued. The annual growth
rate of M3 remained broadly unchanged at 3.8 percent in November
2012 after 3.9 percent in October. M3 growth continued to be
driven by a preference for liquid assets, as M1 growth increased
further to 6.7 percent in November from 6.5 percent in October,
reflecting inflows into overnight deposits from households and
non-financial corporations.  Following our nonstandard monetary policy measures and
action by other policy makers, a broadly based strengthening in
the deposit base of MFIs in the number of stressed countries was
observed. This allowed several MFIs to reduce further their
reliance on euro system funding and helped to reduce
segmentation in financial markets. M3 growth was also supported
by an inflow of capital into the euro area, as reflected in the
strong increase in the net external asset position of the MFIs.  There has been little change in credit growth, which
remained weak in November. The annual rate of decline in loans
to the private sector, adjusted for loan sales and
securitization, remained at minus 0.5 percent in November. This
development reflects further net redemptions in loans to non-
financial corporations.  Net redemptions, however, were less pronounced than in
previous months, amounting to 4 billion euros in November, after
7 billion euros in October and 21 billion euros in September.
The annual rate of decline in loans to non-financial
corporations was minus 1.4 percent in November, after minus 1.5
percent in October. The annual growth in MFI lending to
households also remained broadly unchanged at 0.7 percent in
November. To a large extent, subdued loan dynamics reflects the
current stage of the business cycle, heightened credit risk, and
the ongoing adjustment in the balance sheets of households and
enterprises.  In order to ensure adequate transmission of monetary policy
to the financing conditions in euro area countries, it is
essential to continue strengthening the resilience of banks
where needed. The soundness of banks’ balance sheets will be a
key factor in facilitating both an appropriate provision of
credit to the economy and the normalization of all funding
channels. Decisive steps for establishing an integrated
financial framework will help to accomplish this objective. The
future single supervisory mechanism is one of the main building
blocks. It is a crucial move towards reintegrating the banking
system.  To sum up, the economic analysis indicates that price
developments should remain in line with  price stability  over the
medium term. A cross-check with the signals from the monetary
analysis confirms this picture.  Other economic policy areas will need to make further
contributions to ensure a firm stabilization of financial
markets and an improvement in the outlook for growth. Further
structural reforms should be rapidly implemented to make the
euro area more flexible, dynamic, and competitive economy.  In particular, product market reforms to increase
competition and competitiveness are essential, accompanied by
measures to improve the functioning of labor markets. Such
reforms will boost the euro area’s growth potential and
employment and improve the adjustment capacities of the euro
area countries. They will also add further momentum to the
progress being made with regard to unit labor costs and current
account imbalances. As regards fiscal policies, the recent
significant decline in sovereign bond yields should be bolstered
by further progress in fiscal consolidation in line with the
commitments under the Stability and Growth Pact.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  STAFF: Ladies and gentlemen, I will soon know all your
names, but for today, can I please ask you to state where
appropriate your name and your publication? Eva Kuehnen,
Reuters, please.  QUESTION: Thank you. Mr. Draghi, my first question is about
today’s rate decision. I was wondering, was it unanimous? And
did you discuss cutting rates?  And my other question concerns Ireland. Ireland had a
successful bond auction this week. And does this now qualify
Ireland for the OMT? Or what does the country have to do to be
considered for this program? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. The discussion - the decision was
unanimous. And I can spend some time explaining why this is so.
We - if you look at - if you look at the overall landscape,
taking as a medium-term perspective, you look at what’s happened
in the last six months, you will see a significant improvement
in financial market conditions and a broad stabilization of some
conjunctural indicators.  Let me just go one by one through a list of things that are
now better than they used to be. Bond yields and country CDS are
much lower, significantly lower. Stock markets have increased.
Volatility is at historical minimum. Low redemptions, as I just
said, are lower, as I just read now, are much lower than they
were in September, one-fifth of where they were in September.  We’ve seen strong capital inflows in the euro area. The
deposits in periphery banks have gone up. TARGET2 balances have
gone down. The ECB balance sheet size, which often is indicated
as a source of risk, continues to shrink. So all in all, we have
signs that fragmentation is being gradually repaired.  But all this has not found its way through the real economy
yet, so the real economy continues to be weak, as we had
discussed in our projections last month. Even though we have
improvements - also I forgot to say - in current account
balances in all the confidence indices. However, the real
economy continues to be what it was diagnosed in our projections
a month ago. So there wasn’t any reason, really, to change the
medium-term outlook for price stability. And that’s the main
reason why the - our discussion has been unanimous, our
decision’s been unanimous.  On Ireland and whether it qualifies for OMT or not, I did
say many times what are the prerequisites for accessing OMT. So
I don’t want to comment specifically on this. We know what they
are.  STAFF: Stefan Ruhkamp (inaudible)  QUESTION: As you said, there are some signs that the
capital flight - the capital flight from some - from the weak
countries in the euro area has stopped. And would you say that
is a  turning point  and a turning point in the crisis? And if so,
do you start to think about an exit plan, at least, to reduce
the non-standard measures?  DRAGHI: No, we are not thinking about an exit now, but we
see that the system, the economy will exit when it’s ready. We
are seeing it. The balance sheet is shrinking. TARGET2 balances
are going down. But we still see signs of significant
fragmentation in the euro area.  So to define a turning point, you need - you need a lot of
things besides financial market stabilization. You also need to
see some signs of recovery, which we have foreseen, but later in
this year, in the course of this year. You need to see some -
also some general greater strength in - in - in the economy.  And basically, we don’t see - I mean, our medium-term
outlook for price stability remains what it was. So there is no
- no reason to think about exit.  QUESTION: But could it be a turning point in the debt
crisis? I mean, you said it’s probably not a turning point in
the economic crisis.  DRAGHI: Well, we - you see, that’s where - that’s where the
government policies, the national government policies, become
crucial. The continuation of the structural reforms process, the
improvement on the competitiveness - that’s the paragraph on
structural adjustment that is in my introductory statement.  They’re regaining competitiveness. The action on the
product markets, with the restoration of competition in the
product markets, all these are factors that would basically
grant a long-term improvement and not only a financial markets
improvement.  STAFF: Gabi Thesing, Bloomberg?  QUESTION: Thank you, Gabi Thesing,  Bloomberg News . I have
two questions. Can I press you again on the discussion in the
Governing Council? You said the - the decision was unanimous,
but last month, we had a significant amount of support for a
rate cut. And I find it quite hard to believe that that wasn’t
there this month. Was it there?  And you have people like your former colleague, Mr.
Orphanides, who basically said the current confidence swing is
merely a lull in the crisis brought on by the OMT. And with
unemployment being, you know, at a - at a record high, the
recession is actually worse than in 2009. So, you know, he would
say you should cut rates.  And my second question is, there have been some issues in
the Eurosystem in the sense that the national central banks seem
to apply different collateral rules as they see fit. So which is
- I don’t know - a bit embarrassing for the ECB. Are you going
to do anything about it to make sure that the same collateral
rules are applied right across the board?  DRAGHI: Now, on the first question, I’ve already answered.
Since our last assessment, there was nothing that made us change
our medium-term outlook on price stability, so the decision
taken -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI:  -  and any - and any sign we’ve seen since then
are sign of financial markets’ stabilization, if not returned
confidence, and a broad stabilization, in conjunctural
indicators. That explains why now we have unanimity. But
basically, there was no reason to change the decision taken last
month.  On the - now, you’re - on the collateral issue - on the
second question - you’re referring evidently to press reports
that recently have appeared. And let me say just about the
specific incident. This occurred in the summer of 2012 and had
been corrected at the end of August 2012. So I think some media
reports failed to observe this important point. The difficulties
had been already addressed on this specific point.  Second point, the incident had no impact at all on monetary
policy, contrary to what’s been stated in some media. But having
said that, I said last time, I repeat today, we take these
incidents very, very seriously. And already we had asked the
 audit committee  chaired by Governor Liikanen proposed several
measures, which the Governing Council adopted at our last
meeting on December 6th.  These measures include a series of reviews and audits,
which had been specified in our various press communique on this
point, but on top of this, always following the audit committee
recommendations, we’ve decided to create a data quality
compliance network and an ECB unit that are responsible for,
first, monitoring the data quality by performing regular checks
and reports and promoting improvements in NCB processes,
procedures. NCBs means national central banks - processes,
procedures, international - internal controls, as well as
existing checking procedures.  So we are doing everything we can to prevent these
incidents, fix them when they happen, and we continue to do so.
And it’s not true that each central bank applies its collateral
rules as it sees fit. We saw last time it was - it was an issue
of interpretation. This time, there were objective technical
difficulties that had been addressed by the Banque de  France , as
they have stated in a press release.  Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) whether called for rate cuts today?  DRAGHI: What?  QUESTION: Whether called for rate cuts today?  DRAGHI: I said it was unanimous.  QUESTION: You said the decision was unanimous.  DRAGHI: Yeah, so -  QUESTION: But in terms of the discussion, I mean, the
markets want - the markets want -  DRAGHI: No - no - no -  QUESTION:  -  to know what the mood on the council is.  DRAGHI: No, if the decision was unanimous, it implies that
there was no question to - no request to have a rate cut. I’m
sorry, just that one thing implies the other.  QUESTION: Does it?  STAFF: Silvia Wadhwa, CNBC, please.  QUESTION: Two questions. First of all, you said rightly
that obviously the ample credit supply or the ample supply of
money doesn’t arrive yet at the real economy. Have you got any
indication whether that’s - how much of that is lack of credit
demand and how much of that is actually clogging up of the
pipeline? Because we’ve heard even from - even from corporate
chiefs of German - here in  Germany , where they - who have access
to the  capital markets , that the call to politicians is stop
pampering the banks, we need actually money to arrive where it’s
supposed to arrive. So is there something like clogging up of
the pipeline in terms of credit supply?  And the other one is, are you more pleased by the fact that
yields have come down to a more comfortable level or more
disappointed by the fact that you’ve got a fantastic OMT program
that nobody seems to want yet?  DRAGHI: Well, the - on the first point, we’ve gone through
this on other occasions. I mean, banks don’t lend for three
reasons. One is lack of funding. Another one is lack of capital.
And the third is either risk aversion or credit risk.  In the course of last year, the first issue, the lack of
funding, been addressed. The lack of capital also seems to be -
to have improved significantly. So we’re now left with high risk
aversion and credit risk, credit risk caused by the recession
itself.  So the bottom line of this is that all the positive factors
that are listed at the beginning, plus our accommodative policy
stance, and the continuing reform process, and the improvement
on the - in repairing fragmentation will find their way through
the economy. And we’ll see better credit conditions in the
course of this - of this year.  I already pointed out that the net redemptions in November
have been significantly lower, one-fifth what they were in
September. That’s an example of improvements. But we are - I
mean, the starting point was really very low. So it’s going to
take some time. And at the same time, of course, demand is what
it is, so it’s not - it’s a situation of - it’s still a very
weak economic activity situation, the one that we’ve described
in - today and in - in December.  On the second question, the question is, we are pleased
whether yields have gone down. Well, we are pleased not so much
that the yields have gone down, but - but the fact that tail
risks have been removed and - and this has led to an improvement
in financial market conditions and the beginning of a
stabilization and confidence return in the financial markets.  STAFF: Alessandro (inaudible)  QUESTION: I have two questions. The first one is, again, on
the problem of credit not finding a way to the real economy. Do
you feel - is there anything further the ECB could do? You did
two LTROs at the beginning of last year. Could you envisage some
point that you could do another one?  The other question is about monetary policy. There seems to
be a broad rethinking among some of your colleagues around the
world on a monetary policy strategy. The  Bank of England  is
rethinking inflation targeting. The Fed has indicated the very
long-term guidance on rates. Could you give us a flavor if
there’s any discussion on that at the ECB, notwithstanding that,
of course, you are bound by your mandate of keeping price
stability? Was there any consideration that you might do
anything like that in the future or even any comments on what
your colleagues around the world are doing?  DRAGHI: On the LTRO, I mean, we believe that funding
conditions right now are satisfactory. I don’t think that’s
where the problem is, contrary to what was the issue at the
beginning of last year, when there was a serious potential for
serious distress and systemic risk materializing. The two LTRO
have avoided a disorderly deleveraging, which could have had
even worse consequences on the - on the credit flows and further
disruption in economic activity.  On the - on the second question, I don’t want to comment in
detail, really, but let me give you the bottom line of this,
after some - some reflection. Each central bank has its own
institutional set-up, has its own statutory objectives and its
mandate. Within this institutional set-up, within the statutory
objectives, each central bank tries to steer private-sector
expectations. And as far as our mandate, namely maintaining
price stability, I think we’ve shown how to do it. And
basically, markets understood.  STAFF: Stefan (inaudible) please (inaudible)  QUESTION: Stefan (inaudible) Mr. Draghi, I have two
questions. One is regarding your speech in  London  from last
year, where you said the ECB will do enough or can do enough.
Mr. (inaudible) the -  DRAGHI: If I had said enough, it wouldn’t have worked
anyway.  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: Yeah, but Mr. Mersch said at the end of last year
that one can rescue the euro only if countries are going along
and doing what they have to do. Is there a difference in the
view how - how far the ECB can go within the ECB part (ph)?  And the second question, well, in - in - it’s about your
relationship with the Bundesbank. The Bundesbank in early 1992
(ph) said (inaudible) about the EMU and said it may become too
early (ph). In 1998, Mr. Tietmeyer said that probably there are
coming too many countries in the EMU and that might cause
problems. In 2010, Mr. Weber) said the SMP will not work and you
have to replace it last year. Now you’re discussing about
banking union, and the Bundesbank basically says we have to
change the treaties before we can do a proper  euro zone  banking
union. You seem to say no.  I don’t understand why you never listen or why those who
try to drive European integration, you never listen to those who
seemed to be right in the past, have a good record of being
right, and doing always the opposite of that. Maybe you could
say some words about that. Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, I’m not sure how to read your question,
because actually - I mean, you’ve put all examples in which the
(inaudible) are not being followed. I mean, reality (inaudible)
completely different direction. So I’m not sure what you want to
say exactly.  But I will try to respond to the first question first. No,
there isn’t any difference. In fact, the OMT foresees
conditionality, conditionality within - with an ESM (ph) and an
IMF presence means that countries have to act, means that OMT
doesn’t start without programs. And even so, it means that it
does require an independent assessment by the Governing Council.
So there isn’t any difference between what Mr. Mersch and myself
or anybody on the board would say about that.  Second, on the point more generally, let me tell you, I’m
not going to comment on individual statements. My responsibility
is to convey the decisions of the Governing Council, not
individual, not comment on individual statements.  Third, the principle of the single voice is essential. And
markets have understood it very well, at least seems to me.  And, fourth, what matters is, in the end, the strength of
the European system of central banks, where all central banks
implement the decisions of the Governing Council. Thank you.  STAFF: Michael Steen, please, Financial Times.  QUESTION: Thanks. Mr. Draghi, despite this more positive
mood, I mean, in the statement, you do still explicitly say that
the economic risks are to the downside. Does that - does that
suggest that given this much more confident financial markets
we’ve been seeing, would you say there’s the beginnings of the
risks of a bit of exuberance, the people are saying or feeling
that the crisis is (inaudible) we’re very far from that.  And, secondly, what are the biggest risks that you see
economically? You seem to be hinting in your statement that the
single-biggest risk is political. And if you - if you were to
give the - some concrete examples there, what would they be?
Thanks.  DRAGHI: Yeah. No, I don’t see yet any risks of exuberance,
but we certainly - because, after all, what’s happened is that
we are now back in a normal situation from a financial
viewpoint, but we are not at all seeing an early and strong
recovery. So I don’t think there is any ground for exuberance
yet.  Also, on the - on the financial markets, on the credit
markets, we don’t - we’re not observing yet any sign of this -
of this exuberance. We observe more a normalization of certain
conditions.  There are here and there, by the way, signs that we are
watching carefully, that might suggest that there is a certain
exuberance in specific localized parts of the - of the financial
system. And we are watching - we’re watching closely that that
wouldn’t lead to excessive creation of debt or leverage as it
happened before. But so far, these are fairly limited and
contained examples.  The risks for economic activity, you are right. The risks
stem essentially from lack of action by the governments on the
fiscal side, whereby - what I mean by that? I mean that not only
continuing fiscal consolidation is essential, but also
implemented in a balanced way, through a proper combination of
government expenditure reduction and taxation.  Now, the second point - which is becoming, as many people
have said, really, which is becoming more and more essential and
important to reduce long-term imbalances in the euro area, is
the structural adjustment. That’s where eventually - that’s the
only thing that matters for imbalances in the euro area. It’s
structural adjustment. It’s to regain competitiveness. It’s to
create a situation where you don’t have a permanent creditor and
lots of permanent debtors. And that’s where action is needed and
will continue to be needed for the foreseeable future.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) follow up on the (OFF-MIKE) specific
areas (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: I’m sorry?  QUESTION: Sorry, just to follow up on the specific areas
that you were looking at in terms - in markets where there might
be the beginnings of signs of exuberance?  DRAGHI: Well, there have been - well, you know it very
well, because the FT reported amply on that. You’ve seen
creation of - well, you’ve seen the return of certain
overvaluations in certain sector of the private equity deals, of
some leverage buyouts, and so on. So that’s what I was referring
to.  But this - as I said, these are still relatively defined
and contained situations. You don’t see - you don’t see
exuberance in other parts of the economy.  The positive thing is that if you look at the last, say,
three, four, five months is that, all in all, the financing
conditions have been - have become a little easier, because of
the - because of everything I said at the beginning, decrease in
yields, stock markets have increased their valuations, and so
on.  STAFF: Scott Solano (ph), DPA-AFX (ph).  QUESTION: Thank you. Hello? OK, happy new year to you.  DRAGHI: Happy new year.  QUESTION: OK. A few weeks back, I was at a Christmas
gathering, and then I stepped outside onto a terrace, and I was
speaking with this man, and we were talking and talking, and
eventually I asked him what he did. And he said he was in waste
management. And I was like, he didn’t look like a garbage man to
me. I was a bit confused. But then the nickel fell, and he was a
banker. It made sense. And his job was to go in and value
basically garbage assets. And he said this bank, which is a
prestigious German bank, is valuing a lot of its garbage assets
at fantasy values. And he said this is prevalent throughout the
banking system.  And so my question to you is, can you comment on this? And
what do you intend to do about it? And also, because so much
waste management is going on at banks, is that why the Basel III
liquidity requirements have been postponed?  DRAGHI: No, I don’t have that very negative picture of what
- what is the current situation of the banking system. Actually,
I think that a lot of repairing has taken place since the -
since Lehman times. It doesn’t mean that the repairing is
finished. So there is more to do, much more work to do.  But a lot of work’s been done, both in terms of
deleveraging untenable positions and in terms of raising more
capital. And the figures give quite good evidence of this.  Now, the work isn’t finished as your friend seemed to say
and should continue. And that’s very much in the hands of
national supervisors. But let me also add another positive side
to this. National supervisors have become much more - much more
active, alert, intrusive than they were before the financial
crisis. Things have improved a lot also on the institutional
level, on the public sector level.  Also, the flow of regulation, of new regulation - and I’ll
come in a moment to the liquidity rules - but also the flow of
new regulation has come out and has been put into place after
the financial crisis, certainly helping into this - into this
dimension from this - from this angle.  The liquidity rules by themselves don’t have a direct
relationship with the weakness of the balance sheet. They deal
more with the funding situation of the banks. So the - we
welcome, by the way, the agreement of Basel, as far as the
liquidity rules are concerned. We think it’s - it’s quite
important, and we think also that the phasing in, the - it’s not
been postponed, by the way. They’re not being postponed. It’s
simply - there was no agreement about a gradual phasing in of
these rules, which is pretty normal.  When you increase or when you change deeply the rules for
the - was the same thing for the capital rules, you need to give
time for the banks to adjust, but not only to the banks, also to
policy makers, because some of our policies will have to take
into account these changes anyway. Thank you.  STAFF: Brian Blackstone, Wall Street Journal, and then
Sebastian (inaudible)  QUESTION: I want to go back to the labor markets and the -
you’ve talked about the decline in fragmentation of financial
markets, but the fragmentation in labor markets seems to be
getting even more pronounced, especially in youth unemployment,
where it’s almost 60 percent in  Spain , it’s 8 percent in
Germany. Overall unemployment is over 25 percent in Spain. It’s
a little over 5 percent in Germany.  At what point does this become an issue for monetary policy
that it affects the transmission of monetary policy in the same
way that the fragmentation of financial markets affects it? And
why can’t the ECB maybe think about ways to lower this
fragmentation, if it gets to such an extreme level that it
affects your ability to conduct monetary policy?  And my second question, going back to the issue of global
central banking in 2013, it appears that more central banks may
be either explicitly or implicitly looking at the  exchange rate 
as a tool, when other policy tools are exhausted. If the ECB is
just focusing on price stability, couldn’t there be collateral
damage to the euro zone, if you’re the only one out there that’s
talking about price stability, while other central banks are
experimenting in these different ways to help their economies?  Thank you.  DRAGHI: Thank you. There are several issues to - several
angles from which you can look at unemployment, but just keep in
mind that our mandate is not full employment, like the dual
mandate of the Fed. Our mandate and our statutory objectives are
to keep price stability, is to keep price stability. But having
said that, the unemployment and the level of economic activity
are important, very important factor in our assessment of price
stability. And we certainly want to look at the  unemployment
rate  and analyze whether how much of this is structural and how
much of this is cyclical.  And you see, there are certainly some elements of - of the
unemployment being structurally high in what we see today. You
quoted one. What’s the reason for such high youth unemployment?
If all workers were treated the same, unemployment should
distribute uniformly across the working population. The fact
that we observe such high figures of youth unemployment means
that you have often dual labor markets, where you have the young
with very little protection and the old, the others, with a lot
of protection, so that unemployment gets concentrated in the -
in the young part of the population.  And that - we know that that is so, because the - the
greater flexibility that’s been introduced since the beginning
of this - of the year 2000s was basically concentrated on the
young part of the population, so that when the crisis came, they
were the ones to - they were the first ones to lose their jobs.  Then the next question is, why there is - so there isn’t
such - there isn’t any - well, there’s very mobility (ph) in
this unemployment. Why isn’t unemployment - why aren’t the
workers moving from the areas where there is no - there is no
demand to areas where the labor demand is better? So, you see,
these are all structural reasons.  When you look also - there is another observation - when
you look at output gaps, you see that, for the output - the
significant levels of output gaps would justify lower levels of
inflation than we actually have, which, again, seems to say that
there are certain structural components here in the unemployment
rate. Now, monetary policy cannot do much about that, even - I
mean, even - even in general cannot do much about that.  And finally, we believe that ensuring price stability is
actually - gives you the long-term foundation for growth and job
creation. But this doesn’t mean that we don’t take into account
unemployment and the economic activity in our overall assessment
of the situation and of the prospects.  The second question was - I’m sorry, I forgot it.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) other central banks conducting
policies that affect the exchange rate, and if the ECB is not
doing anything on that, that you end up taking a hit by just
focusing on price stability.  DRAGHI: Look, I - I never comment about exchange rates. But
the exchange rate is certainly a very important element as far
as growth and price stability are concerned, and we certainly
use it as one of the elements for our economic assessment. But
it’s not a policy target. That’s to be kept in mind.  Having said that, the - I can go back and read to you
what’s the international consensus coming from the G-20
statement, and we stick with that, where we say - I mean, we say
- the G-20 said, we (inaudible) our commitments to move more
rapidly towards more market-determined (ph) exchange rate system
and exchange rate flexibility, to reflect underlying
fundamentals, avoid persistent exchange rate misalignments, and
refrain - and notice - refrain from competitive devaluation of
currencies. That’s a solemn commitment that the G-20 entered
into. We reiterate that successful (ph) (inaudible) financial
flows and disorderly movements (ph) in exchange rates have
adverse implications for economic and financial stability. So -
but let me finally add that, so far, both the real and the - and
the effective exchange rate of the euro are at - at their long-
term average. Thank you.  STAFF: Sebastian (inaudible)  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi, I have another question on the
collateral issue. Given the fact that there was again a mistake
at a national central bank last summer, do you still feel
comfortable with the measures which have been adopted in
December? And wouldn’t it be the time to think about
centralizing the valuation of collateral at the ECB and taking
away the - this competence (ph) from the national central banks
to a certain extent?  DRAGHI: I think that’s a good question. That’s a good
question. And it’s - you know, this - the way collateral is
being managed and handled was decided at the beginning of - at
the beginning of the ECB. And I would say that right now we have
to strengthen the governance of this process, and we are doing
so. We have to implement all the decisions that we’ve taken. And
then we’ll certainly reassess the situation after that. And we
see whether the steps we’ve undertaken are really satisfactory,
because as I’ve said, beginning - we have taken this very, very
seriously.  STAFF: (inaudible) International Herald Tribune.  QUESTION: Mr. Draghi - Mr. Draghi, two questions, if I can.
First of all, just a very simple question. Would you ever
consider - would the ECB ever  consider or has considered
anything along the lines of the Bank of  England ’s funding for
lending scheme as a way of addressing the fragmentation issue?  And, secondly, you mentioned the Basel rules. Was the
decision on Sunday at all a signal that perhaps we could see
other concessions to the banking industry on other aspects of
the Basel rules, such as the net stable funding ratio? Thank
you.  DRAGHI: On the first question, you see, the combination of
LTRO with the possibility of using additional credit claims as
collateral, which we had before the Bank of England actually
launched the scheme, is very much in the same - in the same -
the same kind of actions. It’s very similar.  In other words, the Bank of England, in accepting a broad
set of collateral, moved towards we had already in place,
because the - you have ample liquidity. It’s medium-term
liquidity. And banks can use their lending as a collateral for
further funding. So these are very strict - and the pricing
conditions were - and still are - attractive.  So from this viewpoint, there isn’t much difference in the
objectives of the - of the two schemes. Of course, our scheme
doesn’t involve the U.K. treasury or any treasury, while the
U.K. involves the treasury. And our scheme is, indeed, given our
institutional set-up, as I said, each central bank has its own
institutional set-up, and decides and takes actions within that
set-up. We think our scheme is simpler.  On - I’m sorry, the other question was -  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) Basel rules (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: Yeah. Well, I think - on the Basel rules, on the
latest decisions on liquidity, I think the governor of the Bank
of England, who’s also the chairman of the GHOS, the Governors
and Heads of Supervisions group, said everything that needed to
be said at the time.  We welcome this - these rules. We think they are important.
We think the approach taken is - as he said - is realistic. And
we also welcome the gradual phasing in, because in a variety of
ways, our monetary policies will have to take these changes into
account, as well. Thank you.  STAFF: (inaudible)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) one question I think has not been
answered yet is, is the worst over? Can we say that, first?  Second, did you shut the door to rate cuts, because you
didn’t discuss it, or somehow do you think that you have some
powder left?  And I have - there are banks who want to give back their
liquidity that you lent last year - almost one year ago. Have
you any sign of how many banks and how much could it be?  DRAGHI: Now, this third question, no, we don’t - we have
estimates, of course, but the range of these estimates is so
wide that I don’t want to discuss them now. We will know more at
the end of this month when the banks will start repaying their
first LTRO. They can repay it weekly. We will communicate the
amounts and the number of counterparties. You will not know from
us the name of the banks, because we don’t communicate the name
of the banks.  And then in - on February 27th, they will start repaying,
if they do wish so, the second LTRO. They can repay on a quickly
basis - I’m sorry, on a weekly basis, and everything will be
communicated on a weekly basis, as well.  On the rate cuts, I’ve answered. I don’t think there is any
- any further thing to say, any other consideration to make.  We had a discussion. There was no reason to change our
medium-term price stability assessment since our last monetary
policy meeting. Any sign we had was a sign of broad
stabilization in the conjuncture and a certain return of
confidence in the financial markets. But as I said, the economic
activity is still weak and will remain weak for - at least in
the first part of next year, of this year.  And this also is good as an answer to whether the worst is
over.  QUESTION: Is it?  DRAGHI: We - the present situation is characterized by high
uncertainty. And this uncertainty stems from - as I said before
- from geopolitical risks, from price of oil, from commodity
prices, and from the policies of the governments, which we -
where we had substantial, significant progress, but they have to
continue. And I just said, they - especially on the structural
side at this point in time. Thank you.  STAFF: We’ll take two more questions, one from the middle -
I think the gentleman from Spain -  QUESTION: (inaudible) Spanish daily, El Mundo. Could OMT
(ph) lose its, let’s say, magic effects in the market, if not
country (ph) asks for it? And second question. Jean Claude
Juncker has just said that too much fiscal consolidation is
becoming - could become negative for a country like mine, like
Spain, because it’s - because so big unemployment. What can you
comment on - on that?  DRAGHI: Well, on - on the first, you don’t have to ask me,
ask the markets. On - on the second, there are many comments of
this type about several countries in euro area. My answer to
this is that so much progress, accompanied by so many - so big
sacrifices have already taken place that to revert to a
situation which has been found to be untenable would be - would
not be right.  We shouldn’t forget that this fiscal consolidation is
unavoidable. And we certainly are aware that it has short-term
contractionary effects. But now that so much has been done, I
don’t think it’s right to go back.  STAFF: Right. We’ll have (inaudible) and (inaudible) and
then we have another event later on, so there will be - some of
you have to go there, as well. Thank you.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) from (inaudible) sorry for my voice.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in the past few months, in more
than one occasion, that this crisis will take at least five
years to overcome. Do you agree with her? Or are you more
optimistic? Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, I - I am not - I’m not really in a position
to make long-term assessments at this point. We see that the
long-term - we look at our price stability medium-term horizon,
and we see that inflation is in line with our policies, and our
policies are in line with our objectives.  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) German television. Mr. President, may
I ask you again, you’ve shown us where the stage of the current
crisis is, in the view of the Governing Council. Do we think
that the national governments really use the time efficiently,
which the ECB actually has bought them, with their extraordinary
measurements, in order to solve the crisis in due time?  And, secondly, may I ask you, the fact that there is a
certain calming down in the financial markets, do you also see
this as personally a success, seeing it in the light that there
has been quite heavy criticism surrounding these decisions?
Thank you.  DRAGHI: Well, on the first, our - we have to acknowledge
that significant progress has taken place in all countries in
the euro area, all countries where - I mean, you look at fiscal
side, you look at current account, you look at competitiveness,
you look at unit labor costs, you look at experts, you look at
basically all aspects of the economic activity have been - been
affected by reforms of different kinds, whether fiscal or
structural.  The - the - but the point now is not to be complacent about
what’s taken place and relax, but rather keep on, persevere,
because as we all see, we start seeing the benefits, and the
benefits of this don’t come only from OMT, from the ECB action.
They come from the substantial progress that’s been undertaken
at national level, first and foremost, but also - let’s not
forget - but this is - by the significant progress that the year
2012 has brought at the euro area governance level. We made - we
made significant steps towards greater integration.  So the - the beneficial effects that we see today - and I
went through some of them at the beginning of this press
conference - are really the composite outcome of all these
factors.  Also, let’s not forget about one thing. We spoke a lot
about contagion, when things go poorly, but I believe there is a
contagion, a positive contagion when things go well. And I think
that’s what also is in play now. There is a positive contagion.  STAFF: Thank you very much.  DRAGHI: The second - I’m sorry. You had a second question?  (LAUGHTER)  QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE)  DRAGHI: I think I’ve answered the second question, as well,
or not?  QUESTION: Well, not really. This is a more personal
question. I would like to ask you again whether you see it as a
personal success, as well, that - the calming down on the
markets, indeed, has been achieved, despite the fact that there
has been really severe criticism concerning the measurements
being taken.  DRAGHI: Well, I think - let me - let me be absolutely fair
on this. I think the jury’s still out. It’s too early to be - to
claim success. Thank you.  STAFF: OK (inaudible) president. Thank you very much.  DRAGHI: Thank you.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  