-- Teva Cites BG-12 Safety in Asking FDA to Add MS Reviews
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-01-10T14:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/teva-cites-bg-12-safety-in-asking-fda-to-add-ms-reviews.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
asked U.S. regulators for more scrutiny before they approve any
new multiple sclerosis drugs as it tries to block  Biogen Idec
Inc. (BIIB) ’s BG-12 oral treatment from entering the market.  Teva, whose best-selling Copaxone injection controls about
40 percent of the MS market, requested that the  U.S. Food and
Drug Administration  seek expert advice from the Peripheral and
Central Nervous System Advisory Committee prior to clearing a
treatment for the illness, according to a  filing  Dec. 31 on the
U.S. government’s Citizen Petition website.  Safety issues with approved drugs, such as Biogen’s older
treatment Tysabri and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gilenya, show that the FDA
must “ensure that the risks and benefits of the drug are
thoroughly evaluated,” Teva said. In addition, “Biogen
recently posted some troubling information about the safety and
effectiveness of Panoplin capsules, also known as BG-12,”
suggesting “risks for renal adverse events.”  “For now, Teva is playing defense against BG-12,” said
Asthika Goonewardene, a Bloomberg Industries pharmaceutical
analyst in  London . “BG-12 is a direct threat to Teva’s market
share. Any delay, be it for an AdCom panel or merely
administrative, is a big deal for Teva.”  Preserve Sales  A lag to the approval of the BG-12 pill would be a boon for
Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva, which depends on Copaxone for
about 20 percent of sales. Teva, which boosted the treatment’s
price by 9.9 percent this year, is seeking to preserve sales of
its main brand to allow time for Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin to bring in new products as he revamps the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs.  Teva rose 1.1 percent to 145.5 shekels at 4:26 p.m. in Tel
Aviv. That pared the stock’s decline in the past 12 months to 15
percent.  This is Teva’s fifth Copaxone-related petition, with every
filing taking on a new element against competitors’ experimental
drugs. While Teva’s last four petitions targeted generics for
Copaxone, which loses its last patent protection in 2015, the
new petition focuses on novel drugs. The FDA plans to decide on
BG-12 this year.  “BG-12 has been studied in more than 2,600 patients and
we have the utmost confidence in the FDA, and other regulators
for that matter, to objectively evaluate a new treatment,” Kate
Niazi-Sai, a spokeswoman for Weston, Massachusetts-based Biogen,
said by telephone. “Safety for BG-12 has been favorable, and in
well-controlled human trials the overall incidence of renal
events were similar between placebo and BG-12 treated
patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in Tel Aviv at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  