-- Leveraged Loan Market Going Digital to Replace 4 Million Faxes
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2013-01-10T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/leveraged-loan-market-going-digital-to-replace-4-million-faxes.html
The $500 billion market for
leveraged loans, one of the last to depend on facsimile
machines, is turning to computers to save time and money as
stock, bond and commodities exchanges have done for years.  More than four million faxes with information ranging from
quarter-end payments to  interest rates  were received by loan
custodians in 2012. JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  are
now sending private electronic messages to eliminate some of
that paper, according to data provider Markit Group Ltd.  While lending has grown 130 percent since 2008, loan trades
still take as long as three weeks to settle, compared with three
days for stocks and bonds. Modernizing the largely unregulated
market, which has financed companies such as MGM Resorts
International and Six Flags Entertainment Corp., would cut
costs, reduce manual errors and add transparency.  “I thought the fax lobby was behind the continued use of
all those faxes,” Andy Viens, senior vice president, operations
at Sankaty Advisors LLC in  Boston , said in a telephone
interview. The new system “can eliminate some of the re-keying
and the cost could go down as part of that automation.”  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) ’s trustee group handled
650,000 faxes, and processed 376,000 transactions and 26,000
loan trades during the third quarter, Jocelyn Lynch, managing
director at BNY Mellon Corporate Trust in Pittsburgh, said in an
interview.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  received 348,575 documents in
August, September and October, according to the San Francisco-
based bank.  Replacing Faxes  JPMorgan, the second largest arranger of U.S. leveraged
loans in 2012, and Citigroup, the sixth biggest, started getting
rid of all those faxes last year by  sending electronic notices 
to a unit of London-based Markit. The banks are using Financial
Products Markup Language, or FpML, to standardize messaging,
Lynch said.  Notices of interest payments, trade information and loan
holdings may go electronic by the end of the second quarter,
Ellen Hefferan, vice president of operations at the Loan
Syndications and Trading Association, or LSTA, said in an
interview.  Automated clearing might reduce costly settlement delays.
An investor who bought into the Cengage Learning Inc. $1.3
billion  term loan  at 91.125 cents on the dollar Nov. 2 would
have had a paper loss of 21 percent while waiting three weeks
for the purchase to close, as the price tumbled to 71.75 cents
after the textbook publisher  reported  that quarterly net income
dropped 90 percent from a year earlier.  Market Delays  Leveraged loans are rated below BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s (MHP) 
and less than Baa3 at  Moody’s Investors Service. (MCO)   Loans don’t trade publicly and aren’t regulated by a
specific government agency.  “Not having automated clearing is one of the things that
drags down the loan market,” said Jason Rosiak, head of
 portfolio management  at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific
Asset Management, the Pacific Life Insurance Co. affiliate that
oversees about $3 billion in assets. “With a bond you deliver
and get payment. Loans settle physically, which is different.”  While trades of performing debt settle in about 20 days,
distressed loans might take as long as 53 days, according to the
LSTA. Under guidelines from the New York-based trade group,
those would shrink to seven and 20 days.  Issuance Boom  The move to develop FpML for leveraged loans didn’t begin
until 2007 when issuance ballooned to $891.9 billion, a 48.8
percent increase from 2006, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Trade volume more than doubled between the first
three months of 2005 until the third quarter of 2007, when $125
billion of the debt changed hands in the U.S., according to the
LSTA.  The market value of institutional loans outstanding was
about $500 billion in July 2012, according to the trade group.  “The old way of settlement could not keep up,” Bram Smith, executive director of the LSTA, said in an interview last
month.  While the development process started six years ago,
notices sent to Markit’s loan-messaging hub didn’t go live until
last year.  “Loans are idiosyncratic,” Smith said. “They are much
less standardized than bond indentures because their terms are
more customized to each borrower’s needs than bonds typically
are.”  Borrowers sometimes must approve any new investors before a
trade can be completed. In the past there was no time limit for
the borrower to sign off on deals, causing some transactions to
stall.  Deemed Consent  To speed the process the LSTA introduced so-called deemed
consent language. A borrower must object typically within five
days to stop a trade. By the fourth quarter of 2011, about 84.6
percent of credit agreements contained this clause, according to
a report from Xtract Research and the LSTA.  Some traders seek to push out settlement dates because
they either don’t have a loan ready to sell or they want to hold
onto cash longer, BNY’s Lynch said.  Carl Icahn ’s High River LP was ordered by a judge in
December 2011 to pay more than $25 million to Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. after the investor failed to complete nine sales of
Delphi Corp.’s bank debt “as soon as practicable,” as dictated
under LSTA trade papers, according to a Dec. 22, 2011 ruling.
High River didn’t deliver the loans to the buyer at all.  “Loan trading is an arcane thing,” Keith Schaitkin,
general counsel at Icahn Enterprises LP, said in a telephone
interview. “It would be great to bring it forward,” he said
about advancing loan trading and settlement. He declined to
comment on the court case.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment on the case.  Faster Settlement  Markit is seeking to provide processing technology for loan
trades that could lead to settlement in one to three days, Scott Kostyra, managing director and global head of loan settlements
at the company, said in a November telephone interview.  A non-contested trade would be able to flow through the
company’s Markit Clear unit with no manual intervention and go
straight to settlement, he said. Exceptions might include an
investor needing borrower consent. The program uses trade
matching to confirm terms each party enters into the system.  “Once this goes live and everyone is on board, I think it
will be great for our market,” Katherine Stewart, head of loan
closing at Wells Fargo in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina  said. “It
will reduce settlement times significantly.”  First Deals  JPMorgan (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp . and Citigroup have deals on
the system, Kostyra said. Loan trades will continue to be
completed on the phone between two traders, he said.  Markit Clear will help automate settlement, not trading,
and is planning to introduce custodian services. The offering
will allow all documents associated with a trade to be delivered
securely to both the buyer and their designated custodians,
Kostyra said.  “The biggest advantage is it provides some transparency in
the process to see where someone is short a position or is
waiting on their trade to settle,” said Sankaty’s Viens,
referring to Markit Clear. “It will give more clarity to the
process than what is there today and it helps, hopefully, lead
to faster settlement times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  