-- Ex-NFL Player Seau Had Brain Disease From Head Injuries
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-01-10T21:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ex-nfl-player-junior-seau-had-brain-disease-from-head-injuries.html
Junior Seau, the former National
Football League linebacker who committed suicide in May, was
suffering from a brain disease caused by repeated head injuries
associated with contact sports.  Brain-tissue samples showed Seau had chronic traumatic
encephalopathy, a progressive disease diagnosed after death,
according to a statement today from the  National Institutes of
Health , which funds medical research. Seau’s family sent his
brain tissue to researchers in July 2012, two months after he
shot himself in the chest at his home in Oceanside,  California .  Seau, a 12-time Pro Bowl selection who played the last of
his 20 NFL seasons in 2009, was 43 at the time of his death.  Seau’s ex-wife, Gina Seau, was quoted by ABC News as saying
that the family was told Seau’s disease resulted from numerous
head-to-head collisions during his playing career and
“developed the deterioration of his brain and his ability to
think logically.”  Similar traumatic  brain damage  has been found in the
autopsies of at least two other ex-NFL players who killed
themselves -- Andre Waters, a former Philadelphia Eagles
defensive back, in November 2006 at the age of 44; and Dave Duerson, a one-time Chicago Bears defensive back, in February
2012 at age 50.  More than 2,000 former NFL players, including Super Bowl-
winning quarterback Jim McMahon, have filed more than 80
lawsuits against the league seeking damages for head injuries
sustained on the field. Former Atlanta Falcons safety Ray
Easterling, one of those who sued the league, shot and killed
himself two weeks before Seau at his home in Richmond, Virginia.  Research Grant  The NFL said the NIH’s finding underscores the need for
additional research to accelerate a fuller understanding of the
disease, which is also known as CTE. The league said its teams
have already committed a $30 million research grant to the NIH,
and that it is committed to supporting a wide range of
independent medical and scientific research that will both
address CTE and promote long-term health and safety of athletes
at all levels.  “We look forward to making decisions soon with the NFL
Players Association on the investment of $100 million for
medical research that is committed in the collective bargaining
agreement,” the NFL said in a statement. “We have work to do,
and we’re doing it.”  Medical Teams  Results of the study on Seau’s brain showed the disease as
well as evidence of scarring consistent with a small, old
traumatic brain injury, according to the NIH statement. In the
analysis, a team of neuropathologists each examined tissue
samples from three different unidentified brains.  People who died with the disease have been described as
undergoing personality changes, depression, increased
irritability and trouble with attention, researchers said.  “The type of findings seen in Mr. Seau’s brain have been
recently reported in autopsies of individuals with exposure to
repetitive head injury, including professional and amateur
athletes who played contact sports, individuals with multiple
concussions, and veterans exposed to blast injury and other
trauma,” according to the statement.  The disease causes abnormal, small tangles of a protein in
the brain, and may include extensive cell death and shrinkage of
the brain. It was first described in studies of boxers who
developed dementia and symptoms resembling Parkinsons.  More Study  NIH researchers said it’s unclear whether and how the
disease progresses to the more extensive brain degeneration, and
that CTE study remains in a very early stage.  Changes in the brain can begin months, years or even
decades after a player’s last concussion or end of athletic
involvement, according to the Boston-based Sports Legacy
Institute, which advocates for rules to reduce the risk of
concussions in sports.  The NFL Players Association called for a congressional
committee to review the issue.  “The only way we can improve the safety of players,
restore the confidence of our fans and secure the future of our
game is to insist on the same quality of medical care, informed
consent and ethical standards that we expect for ourselves and
for our family members,” the union said in a statement.  Seau’s Career  Seau, taken fifth overall by the  San Diego Chargers  in the
1990  NFL draft , was chosen the league’s defensive player of the
year in 1992 and was named to the Pro Football Hall of Fame’s
All-Decade Team of the 1990s. He played three seasons with the
 Miami Dolphins  after leaving the Chargers in 2002 and spent his
last four years in the NFL with the  New England Patriots  before
retiring after the 2009 season.  In October 2010, Seau was hospitalized with minor injuries
when his sports utility vehicle went off a cliff in Carlsbad,
California, hours after he was arrested for domestic abuse.
Seau, who was conscious and behind the wheel when his car was
found about 100 feet below the road, told investigators he
didn’t try to kill himself and had driven off the cliff because
he fell asleep.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based NIH, a part of the  U.S.
Department of Health  and Human Services, is made up of 27
institutes and centers focused on specific diseases or body
symptoms.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  