-- Ex-SAC Analyst Wang Spared Prison in Insider Trading Case
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ex-sac-analyst-gets-two-years-probation-in-insider-case-2-.html
Wesley Wang, a former analyst for
SAC Capital Advisors LP’s Sigma Capital unit, was sentenced to
two years’ probation for  insider trading  after cooperating with
a government investigation.  Wang recorded phone calls and wore a body wire,
incriminating about 20 people in insider trading, some of whom
haven’t yet been charged, prosecutors said. U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff, citing Wang’s cooperation, yesterday sentenced him
to probation, instead of as many as 37 months in prison called
for in federal sentencing guidelines.  “I apologize to the court and the public for breaking the
insider trading laws,” Wang, 39, told Rakoff in a hearing in
 Manhattan  federal court. “I’ve tried to make up for all the
mistakes I’ve made. I hope your honor can see that I’ve left my
former life behind and have started on a new path.”  Wang pleaded guilty last year to passing illegal tips to
former Sigma Capital portfolio manager Dipak Patel and to
Whitman Capital LLC hedge fund founder Doug Whitman. Wang’s
testimony at Whitman’s criminal trial helped lead to his
conviction on charges of conspiracy and securities fraud,
prosecutors said.  ‘Truthful Witness’  “I found Mr. Wang to be a totally truthful witness,” said
Rakoff, who presided over Whitman’s trial. He said Wang’s
cooperation “really goes beyond that of even most
cooperators.”  Rakoff said he has heard criticism voiced about the U.S.
criminal justice system for allowing cooperating witnesses to
avoid having to serve any prison time.  “Many countries of the world look with disfavor upon the
American user of cooperators, especially if that cooperation
results in no jail or a very significant lesser sentence,” he
said.  The judge said leniency is warranted because prosecutors
“could not achieve the marvelous successes they’re had in
sophisticated crimes, like insider trading, without asking
judges to give a very substantial benefit to cooperators.”  Patel, who ran a five-person team investing in technology
stocks before leaving SAC in 2011, hasn’t been charged with a
crime.  Ex-SAC Employees  Wang is one of eight current or former SAC employees linked
by government prosecutors and regulators to insider trading
while at the firm. They include Mathew Martoma, a former SAC
portfolio manager who is charged with using inside information
about the clinical trial of an Alzheimer’s drug to help SAC make
$276 million in profits and averted losses. Prosecutors have
called it the largest insider-trading scheme in history.  Martoma is charged with passing inside information on the
drug trial to  Steven Cohen , SAC’s founder, who allegedly used it
to liquidate a $700 million position in the companies promoting
the drug. Cohen hasn’t been charged.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for  Stamford , Connecticut-
based SAC, has said that Cohen and SAC did nothing wrong.  Wang was an intern for Whitman’s firm before leaving to
work for SAC in 2002. He told jurors that he and Whitman, whom
he called a friend and mentor, exchanged tips on  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Polycom Inc. (PLCM)  and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)   Illegal Tips  Prosecutors said Wang also admitted to sharing illegal tips
with his bosses at Trellus Management Co., where he worked as a
consultant from 2005 to 2008. Wang’s Trellus bosses weren’t
named in prosecutors’ Jan. 2 letter to Rakoff.  Adam Usdan, a spokesman for New York-based Trellus, didn’t
return a phone message seeking comment.  In the Jan. 2 letter, prosecutors said agents with the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  learned from an unnamed
cooperating source in 2008 that Wang was involved in insider
trading. The source recorded incriminating telephone calls and
meetings with Wang, they said.  From November 2008 to January 2009, the FBI tapped Wang’s
phones, the prosecutors said. He later agreed to cooperate with
the government’s insider-trading investigation, recording phone
calls and meetings to gather incriminating evidence on people
with whom he had exchanged inside information, according to the
letter.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 12-cr-541, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net 
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  