-- Mexico Peso Reaches Nine-Month High as Economic Confidence Rises
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-01-10T15:29:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/mexico-peso-reaches-nine-month-high-as-economic-confidence-rises.html
Mexico ’s peso rose as stronger-than-
forecast growth and speculation that the government will pass
legislation to boost gross domestic product fueled confidence in
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  The currency advanced 0.6 percent to 12.6526 per  U.S.
dollar  at 9:05 a.m. in Mexico City, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It earlier rose to the highest intraday level
since March 27. The peso has rallied 1.6 percent this year.  Mexico’s peso increased the most among major Latin American
currencies after the government said the economy expanded in
October from a year earlier at the fastest pace since July. The
political outlook remains “supportive” for legislative changes
that President Enrique Pena Nieto is trying to pass to boost
economic growth,  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  wrote today in a note to
clients.  “Big players are getting into the peso,”  Ramon Cordova , a
currency trader at Banco Base SA in San Pedro Garza Garcia,
Mexico, said in a phone interview. The economic data showing
stronger-than-forecast growth “is an additional push on the
peso.”  Mexico’s economy expanded 4.33 percent in October from a
year earlier, the national statistics agency said today on its
website. The increase in the global economic indicator, a proxy
for gross domestic product, was expected to be 3.85 percent,
according to the median estimate of 16 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators for a gain in the peso outnumbered those for a
decrease in the futures market by 141,752 last week, up from
86,787 in November.  The yield on fixed-rated peso bonds due in 2024 was little
changed at 5.5 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The price rose 0.01 centavo to 139.33 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  