-- FBI’s Washington Office Homes in on Financial Fraud Cases
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-01-11T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/fbi-s-washington-office-hones-in-on-financial-fraud-cases.html
The FBI’s  Washington  field office,
long known for its work on terrorism and public corruption, has
taken a central role in the U.S. probe of the manipulation of
 interest rates  that has entangled banks around the world.  The office is conducting the U.S. investigation into the
rigging of benchmarks including the  London  Interbank Offered
Rate, and its work up to this point has led in part to two
international resolutions, including the $1.5 billion settlement
with UBS AG in December and charges against two of the bank’s
former traders.  The settlement, which included a guilty plea from the
company’s Tokyo subsidiary, and investigations into banks and
traders across the globe underscore how attacking “major
fraud” has become a priority for the office, Timothy Gallagher,
the head of the Washington criminal division who is overseeing
the probe, said in an interview.  “We’ve got an enormous amount of resources devoted to
this,” said Gallagher, who took the helm of the criminal
division in October after a stint as the chief of the Financial
Crimes Section at FBI headquarters.  The  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s role at the center of
financial fraud cases isn’t new, as the  New York  office has
spearheaded some of the largest corporate and securities fraud
cases in history. Still, the Washington office’s emergence,
bolstered by its two financial fraud squads and relationship
with  Justice Department  lawyers leading the probe, has pushed it
to the forefront of Wall Street’s radar.  Vigorous Pursuit  “People think that financial fraud is pursued in New York,
but we’re pursuing it vigorously here,” Gallagher said at his
office six blocks from Justice Department headquarters.
“There’s more than enough to go around.”  The settlement with UBS, along with criminal charges
against two former traders, may be the template for more
resolutions with banks around the world. Along with the Justice
Department and Commodity Futures Trading Commission, regulators
from at least five countries, including the U.K.’s Serious Fraud
Office and Financial Services Authority, are investigating the
banks involved.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  agreed to pay 290 million pounds in June.
Regulators have sought information from more than a dozen banks
that set rates in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan  that underpin more
than $300 trillion in contracts worldwide.  The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  is in settlement
negotiations with regulators, according to people with knowledge
of the matter. Traders at Deutsche Bank AG,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) 
and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  also are under investigation, according to
a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the probes are continuing.  Washington Meeting  Libor is derived from a survey of banks. Lenders are asked
how much it would cost them to borrow from one another for 15
different periods, from overnight to one year, in currencies
including dollars, euros, yen and francs.  FBI officials have been to London and, in the weeks leading
up to the UBS settlement, international officials met in
Washington on the case, Gallagher said. The FBI’s role has been
to lead the investigative component, with forensic accountants,
analysts and special agents all taking part.  Gallagher, who first became involved in the probe through
his position at FBI headquarters, said the scope and importance
of the investigation was clear to him from the moment he was
first briefed on its details. He declined to discuss the
specifics of the investigation, which has included regulators
and law enforcement authorities from across the world.  ‘Moving Parts’  “It’s huge,” said Robertson Park, a 20-year veteran of
the Justice Department’s fraud section who worked on the Libor
case until his August departure for  Murphy & McGonigle  in
Washington. “It’s got all sorts of players and moving parts.”  The Washington office’s increased focus on financial fraud
mirrors a bureau-wide effort after the 2008 financial crisis.  FBI Director  Robert Mueller  told lawmakers in testimony
last year that the bureau had a 49 percent increase in corporate
and securities fraud cases since September 2008, when Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy, sending global
financial markets into freefall. At the end of 2011 the FBI had
more than 2,600 fraud cases, Mueller said.  To handle the load, the FBI has bolstered its corporate
fraud response teams -- groups of accountants, analysts and
special agents run out of FBI headquarters that can be deployed
on major cases. A “large number” of special agents from the
response teams came to Washington for the Libor investigation,
Kevin Perkins, the FBI’s associate deputy director, said at the
December press conference announcing the UBS settlement.  Future Cases  “As you can imagine in such cases, there is a significant
amount of data to be pored over and analyzed,” Perkins said.  Gallagher said the expertise within his financial fraud
teams has become a valuable resource for U.S. attorneys around
the country -- and may help open a pipeline to Washington for
future cases with the size and scope of the  Libor probe .  The Washington operation also is able to easily coordinate
with the lawyers less than a mile away in the Justice
Department’s fraud section, the group taking the lead on the
criminal investigation.  Assistant Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , the head of the
Justice Department’s criminal division, called the FBI’s
Washington office a “tremendous partner.”  “The FBI Washington Field Office’s pursuit of
sophisticated financial fraud schemes has been essential in
building some of the department’s most complex and labor-
intensive cases,” Breuer said in an e-mail.  ‘Same Table’  Gallagher said the proximity to Justice Department
officials allows him to have lunch regularly with Denis J. McInerney, the chief of the section. They speak about the Libor
case at least once a week, he said. Special agents have quick
access to the lawyers working on the case -- a valuable tool in
a investigation that spans more than a dozen banks and
regulators from across the globe.  “You have the agents and the prosecutors at the same table
as much as possible,” he said.  In a town where federal regulators, congressional staff and
lawmakers hold reams of sensitive information that could be used
to move financial markets, the Libor investigation, which
lawyers say could go on for years, may foreshadow a continuing
role for the Washington office, Gallagher said.  “Nothing succeeds like success,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  