-- Fed’s Bullard Sees Difficulty Tying QE to Economic Levels
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-01-10T21:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/fed-s-bullard-sees-difficulty-tying-qe-to-economic-levels.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said it may be difficult to tie the
central bank’s $85 billion monthly bond purchases to numerical
levels of unemployment and inflation.  After settling a debate over how long to hold  interest
rates  near zero, Fed officials are discussing when to halt their
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. At its
December meeting, the  Federal Open Market Committee  agreed to
hold the target interest rate near zero so long as unemployment
remains above 6.5 percent and inflation stays below 2.5 percent.  “Attempts to also put thresholds on the timing of asset
purchases may be a bridge too far,” Bullard said today to the
 Wisconsin  Bankers Association in Madison, Wisconsin.  Bullard said last week that  unemployment  could drop to
about 7 percent by the end of this year, which may be enough
improvement for the FOMC to halt the purchases, known as QE3 for
the third round of quantitative easing.  He said his forecast would be a continuation of the
unemployment decline seen since October 2009 when the rate hit
10 percent. The rate has since declined about 0.7 percentage
point per year, he told reporters after the speech.  If that pace continues the current 7.8 percent jobless rate
could decline to around 7 percent by the end of this year and
“would get us to 6.5 percent sometime in the middle of 2014,”
Bullard said.  More Optimistic  Achieving the Fed’s threshold on unemployment would “cause
the committee, in my view, to rethink its interest rate policy
but it would be for a good reason.”  The St. Louis Fed chief forecast the economy could grow 3.2
percent in 2013 and 2014 as inflation will remain near the Fed’s
2 percent goal. That’s more optimistic than the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey of 96 analysts, showing growth of 2
percent in 2013 and 2.8 percent in 2014.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index advanced toward a five-year
high as better-than-estimated Chinese exports tempered a decline
in technology shares. The index advanced 0.8 percent to 1,472.12
at 4 p.m.  New York  time, the highest level since December 2007.  The central bank began purchasing $40 billion a month of
mortgage debt in September and announced purchases of $45
billion a month of Treasuries at their December meeting. If the
program continues until year-end, purchases would total around
$1 trillion and the Fed’s balance sheet would approach $4
trillion.  ‘Future Imbalances’  Bullard told reporters that “it’s a very aggressive policy
and it is making me a little bit nervous that we’re over-
committing to easy policy.”  Bullard’s concern was echoed earlier today by Kansas City
Fed President Esther George. George said in her remarks that “a
prolonged period of zero interest rates may substantially
increase the risks of future financial imbalances and hamper
attainment of the” Fed’s 2 percent inflation goal.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Bullard and George scheduled to join the committee at the FOMC’s
January 29-30 meeting. Also joining the committee are Chicago’s
 Charles Evans , who led the campaign to link interest rates to
economic conditions, and  Boston ’s  Eric Rosengren .  Minutes of the Fed’s December meeting show a split among
policy makers over how soon the QE program should end.
“Several” members of the FOMC said it would “probably be
appropriate to slow or stop purchases well before the end of
2013,” according to the minutes. A “few” were willing to let
the program run to the end of the year while “a few others”
didn’t give a time frame.  Bullard said the Fed will “have to make a judgment
concerning the program as macroeconomic data arrive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  