-- Fed’s George Says Low Rates Risk Stoking Inflation Surge
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-01-10T20:22:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/fed-s-george-says-low-rates-risk-causing-inflationary-surge.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Kansas City 
President Esther George said the Fed’s record stimulus may fuel
the risk of financial instability and a surge in inflation.  “A prolonged period of zero interest rates may
substantially increase the risks of future financial imbalances
and hamper attainment of the” Fed’s 2 percent inflation goal,
George said today in a speech in Kansas City,  Missouri .  Fed officials are debating when to end purchases of
mortgage bonds and  Treasury securities  that are aimed at fueling
economic growth and reducing 7.8 percent unemployment. Policy
makers decided last month to hold the target  interest rate  near
zero so long as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent and
inflation stays below 2.5 percent. George holds a vote on the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which next meets Jan. 29-30.  Since becoming leader of the Kansas City Fed in October
2011, George has spoken mainly about financial regulation. Her
predecessor,  Thomas Hoenig , dissented from policy actions in
2010 and called for raising the benchmark interest rate from
near zero percent.  Asset purchases by the Fed, now totaling $85 billion per
month, will “almost certainly increase the risk of complicating
the FOMC’s exit strategy” because bonds will need to eventually
be sold, George said.  “Like others, I am concerned about the high rate of
unemployment, but I recognize that monetary policy, by
contributing to financial imbalances and instability, can just
as easily aggravate unemployment as heal it,” George said to
the Central Exchange, a group that promotes leadership
development for women.  High Levels  Prices “of assets such as bonds, agricultural land, and
high-yield and leveraged loans are at historically high levels”
and may signal market imbalances, George said.  Low interest rates and stronger demand for agricultural
commodities stoked a rise in land prices, she said in response
to audience questions.  “We have to watch that carefully,” she said, adding that
it’s too early to be alarmed. “I would be the last to suggest I
can identify when there is a bubble there.”  In prepared remarks, George said, “the exceptionally long
period of extraordinary monetary policy accommodation could also
become a threat to the stability of longer-term inflation
expectations.”  The  U.S. economy  has been restrained by households cutting
their debt, corporations hoarding cash amid uncertainty about
fiscal policy and banks repairing their balance sheets, George
said.  ‘Key Sectors’  Still, “key sectors” of the economy including housing and
auto industries are showing improvement, the Kansas City Fed
leader said. “I expect that the economy will continue to grow a
bit more than 2 percent in 2013 and that the level of
unemployment will continue to decline, perhaps by another half a
percentage point,” she said.  The U.S. economy may expand at a 2 percent pace in 2013
after a 2.3 percent gain last year, according to the median
forecast among economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  this month.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said at a different
event that policy makers may have difficulty tying the central
bank’s monthly bond purchases to numerical levels of
unemployment and inflation.  “Attempts to also put thresholds on the timing of asset
purchases may be a bridge too far,” Bullard said today to the
 Wisconsin  Bankers Association in Madison, Wisconsin.  U.S. stocks gained for a second day, returning the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index to a five-year high.  The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 0.6 percent to 1,469.96 at 2:55 p.m. in  New York .  George, 54, was the Kansas City Fed’s No. 2 official under
Hoenig, who retired and was later named vice chairman of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. She joined  the Fed  in 1982,
spent much of her career in bank supervision and became first
vice president in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  