-- First Quantum Hostile Inmet Bid Has Low Odds
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k ,   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-01-10T21:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/first-quantum-hostile-inmet-bid-has-low-odds.html
First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM) ’s  C$5.1
billion ($5.2 billion) hostile bid for  Inmet Mining Corp. (IMN)  will
probably fail, based on the track record of Canadian deals over
the past 12 years.  Canadian companies have been targeted in 48 hostile deals
valued at at least $100 million since 2000, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Twenty-nine, or 60 percent, failed,
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion bid for Potash Corp.
of Saskatchewan Inc. in 2010 and Equinox Minerals Ltd.’s $4.8
billion pursuit of  Lundin Mining Corp. (LUN)  in 2011.  Unsolicited deals have been unsuccessful due to political
influence, such as Saskatchewan’s opposition to BHP’s bid for
Potash Corp., and resistance from boards that argue their firm
is worth more. Often “white knights” emerge with higher
offers, such as  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s $38.1 billion friendly deal for
Alcan Inc., which trumped  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ’s hostile bid in 2007.  “It’s more likely than not when a hostile bidder launches
a bid that it’s not going to be the successful party,” John
Emanoilidis, a partner at Torys LLP and co-head of the Toronto-
based law firm’s M&A practice, said in a phone interview. Torys
represents Inmet. “The odds would be against a hostile
bidder.”  When a hostile bid is announced, the typical outcome is
that a change of ownership occurs though not necessarily with
the hostile bidder that initiated the process, he said. “If we
were going to apply the statistics to future hostile takeovers,
the hostile bidder may be disappointed.” Emanoilidis said.  ‘Carefully Evaluate’  Hostile deals represent a fraction of the 1,686 completed
or scrapped acquisitions in  Canada  during the 12-year period.
Hostile Canadian deals have a better chance of success than in
the U.S., where 102 of 156 hostile deals, or 65 percent, failed
since 2000.  First Quantum, which produces copper in  Africa , said it
expects to get the required two-thirds support of Inmet’s
investors.  “We are confident, as confident as you can be, to get the
required support of the shareholders,”  Clive Newall , president
of Vancouver-based First Quantum, said yesterday in an interview
in London.  The Inmet board “will carefully evaluate” the terms of
the unsolicited C$72-a-share bid, Chairman David Beatty said in
a statement. Inmet, developing the Cobre Panama project, fell
0.5 percent to C$71.92 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. The stock has risen
about 36 percent since the Toronto-based company announced First
Quantum’s approaches.  Spokesmen for Inmet and First Quantum declined to comment
on the likelihood that the bid will succeed based on historic
data.  Placer Deal  First Quantum is trying to follow other hostile deals that
got done in Canada.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  succeeded in buying
Vancouver-based Placer Dome Inc. for $10.2 billion in 2006 after
investors supported the hostile bid. A C$3.73 billion takeover
of TMX Group Inc., owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange, by banks
and pension funds cleared last year. The offer started out in
2011 as an unsolicited bid to challenge TMX’s friendly
combination with  London  Stock Exchange Group Plc.  “A hostile bidder can win if they’re prepared to put the
full value on the table,” Simon Romano, partner at law firm
Stikeman Elliott LLP in Toronto, said in a phone interview.
“Most of the companies who lost their bid lost because they
didn’t pay the full price.”  Romano said Inmet should be a “manageable” transaction
because it isn’t being courted by a state-owned enterprise and
it isn’t a large company protected by law such as Potash Corp.
“I would think that if you could readily pay the price, a
bidder could take out a company like Inmet.”  Rona Battle  A failure to do a deal can prompt investor demands for
change, such as the case at home-improvement retailer Rona Inc.
last year. Rona’s board on Nov. 9 ousted former Chief Executive
Officer Robert Dutton, who was at the company’s helm when it
rejected an offer from Lowe’s Cos, the second-biggest U.S. home-
improvement chain.  Invesco Canada Ltd., the second-largest investor of the
Boucherville, Quebec-based company, sought to replace the board
after the takeover was rebuffed. Lowe’s offered C$14.50 a share
for Rona in July. Rona rose 0.1 percent to C$10.64 in Toronto
trading.  Investment bankers expect mergers prompted by shareholders
to increase this year following activist campaigns last year at
 Canadian Pacific (CP)  Railway Ltd. and  Agrium Inc. (AGU)   Less Vocal  “You see a group of shareholders out there in the Canadian
market that are prepared to be more vocal in their perspective
on  shareholder value ,” said Patrick Meneley, vice-chairman of
 investment banking  at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD Securities
unit. “Our job is to work with clients to see a path clear to
optimizing shareholder value. That will continue; there’s no
doubt about that.”  Investors in Canadian companies have been less vocal than
their U.S. counterparts in encouraging change. Jana Partners,
the New York-based hedge fund, began pressing Agrium of Calgary
to spin off its farm-supply retail network from its core
fertilizer business. And hedge-fund manager  William Ackman  was
successful in his proxy fight last year to name a new CEO  at
 Canadian Pacific , to shake up was once  North America ’s least-
efficient railroad.  “There are times when the market is not recognizing a
company’s fully intrinsic value, that we present solutions,
ideas, thoughts and execution to remedy that,” Meneley said.  Shareholders may focus on making changes within the mining
and industrial sectors, said Daniel Barclay, managing director
of mergers and acquisitions at  Bank of Montreal ’s BMO Capital
Markets.  “It’s anything where we have a valuation gap,” Barclay
said in an interview last month. “So you could see a bunch in
the general industrials. That’s just shareholders seeing big
gaps if they did the business model quite differently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  