-- Ford Doubles Dividend to 10 Cents on Record Margins
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2013-01-10T21:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ford-doubles-quarterly-dividend-to-dime-on-record-margins.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. automaker, doubled its quarterly dividend to 10 cents a
share, a move that will boost the annual payout to the Ford
family to more than $28 million.  The first-quarter dividend, which will cost the company
about $380 million, will be payable March 1, the Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker said today in a statement. Ford, which
resumed paying a dividend last year after a five-year hiatus,
cited its strengthening business for increasing the payout.  Ford earned $6.47 billion before taxes in North America in
2012’s first nine months, more than it made in the region for
all of 2011. North America had an operating profit margin of
11.2 percent during the period in an industry where a 5 percent
margin is respectable, as part of Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally’s product-development plan known as One Ford.  “Ford put a plan in place to fix the company, they
leveraged up and put a mortgage on the place to get it done, and
they’ve executed that,” Matthew Stover, a Boston-based analyst
with Guggenheim Securities LLC, said by telephone. “Now,
they’re returning some capital.”  Ford rose 2.7 percent to $13.83 at the close in  New York 
trading, the highest in 18 months. The shares have gained 6.8
percent this year after rising 20 percent last year.  The Ford family has 40 percent voting power through a
special class of stock known as Class B. The increased dividend
will pay out $28.3 million annually to the 70.9 million Class B
shares outstanding.  Ford Family  “People will argue, particularly given what’s happened
recently with tax rates, if this is the smartest decision, but
then they’ll also need to remember that there is a very
significant family shareholder here that relies on these
dividends for income,” said Stover, who has a  neutral rating  on
Ford.  Executive Chairman Bill Ford, 55, great-grandson of founder
Henry Ford, holds 14.5 million Ford common shares and 4.23
million Class B shares, according to the company’s 2012 proxy
statement. Edsel Ford, 64, also a great-grandson of the founder,
holds 3.06 million common shares and 5.24 million Class B
shares.  A 10-cent dividend will boost Bill Ford’s annual payout to
$7.49 million per year and raise Edsel Ford’s to $3.32 million.  Ford has recorded 14 consecutive  quarters of net income  as
it has boosted margins through its One Ford global product
development plan. Mulally, 67, is trying to boost profits by
selling the same models globally, rather than different versions
for various regions. The strategy aims to leverage Ford’s
economies of scale to improve profit margins.  Tops Expectations  “When I heard the news driving into work this morning, I
got excited,” said Gary Bradshaw, fund manager for Dallas-based
Hodges Capital Management, who has about 150,000 Ford shares and
now is ready to buy more. “As soon as I heard it, I thought,
‘Man, now is the time to buy Ford, the stock is acting great.’”  Bradshaw said he now regrets reducing his Ford holdings
last year after the automaker said it would lose $3 billion in
 Europe  in 2012 and 2013. European woes and the sluggish U.S.
recovery had weighed on Ford shares for much of last year,
Bradshaw said.  The amount and timing of the dividend increase surprised
some analysts. It will cost the automaker $1.5 billion annually.  “This announcement is larger than we expected,” Joseph Spak, an analyst for RBC Capital Markets, wrote today in a note
to investors. “Today’s announcement shows strong confidence in
their outlook, balance sheet and liquidity. We expect Ford to
continue to grow the dividend with earnings and liquidity.”  Year Earlier  The doubling of Ford’s dividend occurred almost a year
earlier than Jefferies Inc. expected, analyst  Peter Nesvold 
wrote today in a research report. The New York-based analyst,
who has a buy rating on Ford, increased his price target to $16
from $14. Citigroup Inc. also raised its price target for Ford
to $15 from $14.  Ford ended a five-year dividend drought when it declared a
5-cent payout in December 2011. The last time the company had a
10-cent dividend was June 2006, Jay Cooney, a company spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Bloomberg analysts predict that Ford’s quarterly dividend
 may increase  to 12 cents a share in 2014. The Bloomberg dividend
estimates are based on criteria including a company’s guidance,
dividend history, regression analysis and put-call parity.  One Ford ‘Testament’  “Our ability to double our dividend in one year is a
testament to our One Ford plan, which has enabled us to maintain
a solid balance sheet, while at the same time growing our
business to provide our shareholders with more return on their
investments,” Chief Financial Officer Bob Shanks said in the
statement.  Moody’s Investors Service raised its rating on Ford to
investment grade in May, one month after Fitch Ratings. Standard
& Poor’s ranks Ford’s debt BB+, the highest level of speculative
grade, with a positive outlook, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Ford’s increased dividend does not affect S&P’s ratings or
outlook on the company, the New York-based company said today in
a statement.  Ford avoided the bankruptcies that befell the predecessors
of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC because it borrowed
$23.4 billion in late 2006, less than four months after Mulally
arrived from  Boeing Co. (BA)  The automaker put up all major assets,
including its blue oval logo, as collateral. It recovered
control of those assets in May after Moody’s followed Fitch in
upgrading Ford’s debt to an investment-grade credit rating.  GM, the largest U.S. automaker, doesn’t pay a common
dividend. Detroit-based GM rose 1.6 percent to $30.44, its
highest closing price in almost 18 months.  A rising share price for GM would boost the U.S. Treasury
Department, which pledged in December to sell its 500 million GM
shares in the following 15 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  