-- Forint Drops on Minister’s Currency View as Yields Fall at Sale
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-01-10T15:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/forint-weakens-after-minister-argues-against-supporting-currency.html
Hungary’s forint weakened after
Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  argued against using the
currency’s strength to fight the highest inflation rate in
European Union. Borrowing costs at this year’s first bond
auction fell.  The forint erased its earlier advance, weakening 0.8
percent to 292.0 per euro by 3:37 p.m. in Budapest. It
strengthened 0.7 percent yesterday. The forint jumped 8.1
percent last year, the second-best performance worldwide, after
the Polish zloty. Yields on 10-year bonds slid to a seven-year
low at today’s sale.  Hungary must reject “traditional” economic models
including policies of previous governments that kept the forint
strong to control inflation and allowed the  budget deficit  to
widen, Matolcsy wrote in his weekly column in the Heti Valasz
newspaper today. The minister has been named a potential
successor to central bank President Andras Simor whose term ends
in March, according to media reports including on the Index news
website.  “The danger is that on the back of these comments the
forint might go significantly weaker,” Tim Ash, a London-based
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said by e-mail.  Hungary  sold 70.5 billion forint ($318 million) in bonds
due in 2016, 2018 and 2023, 23.5 billion forint more than
planned. The average yield on the 2023 securities was 6 percent,
the  lowest  for that maturity since 2005, according to data from
the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg. Yields on three- and
five-year notes also slipped.  The agency sold an additional 4.6 billion forint in bonds
at a later, non-competitive tender.  Yields Fall  Borrowing costs have declined as the Magyar Nemzeti Bank
cut its benchmark rate by a cumulative 1.25 percentage points in
five consecutive months last year to 5.75 percent to help
Hungary emerge from recession. Derivatives traders are pricing
in at least a further one percentage point reduction this year.  The central bank will probably be the “least cautious” in
the region in easing monetary policy as Matolcsy is the main
contender to take over as president, Simon Quijano-Evans, a
London-based economist at ING Groep NV, wrote in an e-mailed
report today.  Yields on Polish bonds surged after central bank Governor
Marek Belka said yesterday interest-rate cuts are nearing an
end.  Hungary’s central bank should “bravely use unorthodox
tools” to support economic growth, Matolcsy said in an
interview with Budapest-based HirTV last month.  “Matolcsy’s appointment as central governor would be a
controversial move, unlikely” to be appreciated by markets,
 Standard Bank ’s Ash said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  