-- Former UBS Investment Bank Head Says He Was Negligent on Libor
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2013-01-10T14:17:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/former-ubs-investment-bank-head-says-he-was-negligent-on-libor.html
Jerker Johansson, a former head of
 UBS AG (UBSN) ’s investment bank, said his unawareness of rigging of
global interest rates at the biggest Swiss bank was a failure
and negligent.  “I would describe it as a failure,” Johansson, who headed
the unit from March 2008 until April 2009, told the U.K.’s
parliamentary commission on banking standards in  London  today.
He agreed with the description from Andrew Tyrie, the
commission’s chairman, that it was also negligent.  Huw Jenkins, who headed the unit before Johansson, and
former chief executive officer Marcel Rohner told the hearing
that they were “shocked” to hear about the misconduct, for
which UBS was fined $1.5 billion by regulators in the U.S., the
U.K. and Switzerland in December. Johansson, Jenkins, Rohner and
Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell, who co-headed the investment bank for
1 1/2 years until November 2010, all said they learned of the
rigging only recently from press reports.  The UBS settlement is the second in the investigation of
global interest rates after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in June agreed to pay
290 million pounds ($466 million). Regulators have sought
information from more than a dozen banks that set rates in the
U.S., Europe and  Japan  to make their finances appear healthier.
More than $300 trillion of loans, mortgages, financial products
and contracts are linked to Libor.  ‘Deeply Sorry’  “I’m deeply sorry that we didn’t spot this,” said
Jenkins, CEO of the investment bank until October 2007. “It’s
clearly a failing in our systems and controls and in our culture
that it wasn’t highlighted through whistle-blowing or other
checks and balances in the system.”  Andrea Orcel , CEO of the investment bank, told the
commission yesterday that UBS is in the process of rooting out
“negative elements” of its corporate culture. About 18 people
have lost their jobs and the bank has “taken action” against
40 people in connection to the  Libor probe , Andrew Williams,
global head of compliance at UBS, said yesterday.  Johansson, who was in charge when UBS conducted an internal
investigation into Libor setting, said he wasn’t aware of that
probe at the time. He also said he was unaware of press reports
highlighting problems.  “With hindsight, I wish I would have looked into it and I
accept that,” he said. “But I honestly don’t know how at the
time that could have been seen to be one of the most critical
issues for the head of the investment bank, not knowing of the
irregularities that were taking place in that setting
mechanism.”  UBS Survival  Johansson and Rohner both stressed that their focus in 2008
to 2009 was on the  survival  of the bank, which amassed more than
$57 billion in writedowns and losses from the subprime crisis
and had to be bailed out by the Swiss government. Rohner, the
CEO between July 2007 and February 2009, said he accepts
“accountability” for what happened under his watch and that he
“did the best I could.”  “The level of ignorance of this board seems to be
staggering to the point of incredulity,” Tyrie said during the
hearing. He also said UBS’s rigging of interest rates and
reaping profit from that was “stealing,” a description to
which Johansson agreed.  Wilmot-Sitwell, who became president of  Europe  at Bank of
America Corp. after he left UBS last year, said hearings such as
this help reinforce the importance of managing a firm’s
reputation in the financial industry as a whole.  “We’re only as good as the reputation of our firm,” he
said. “We’re only as good as the professionalism and integrity
with which we carry out our business. And there is a recognition
that there is a massive hill to climb in terms of recovering
that reputation, rebuilding the integrity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  