-- Fresenius Joins Atalian in Opening Europe’s Junk Bond Market
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2013-01-10T11:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/fresenius-joins-atalian-in-opening-europe-s-junk-bond-market.html
Fresenius SE & Co., the German
medical equipment maker, joined facilities service provider La
Financiere Atalian SA in selling Europe’s first junk bonds this
year as corporate bond issuance reaches the highest in a month.  Fresenius and Atalian’s deals are the first speculative-
grade offerings since the start of December and follow last
year’s record junk-bond issuance.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and
 France ’s Socram Banque led today’s investment-grade sales,
taking this week’s total to at least 14 billion euros ($19
billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Yields on junk bonds have plunged to a record-low 5.3
percent from 12 percent a year earlier as investors sought a
riskier antidote to plummeting rates on safer securities,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data. Borrowers sold
77 billion euros of junk-rated debt last year, data compiled by
Bloomberg  show .  “This year should be busy in terms of new issuers being
coaxed into the high-yield bond market,” said Stuart Stanley, a
fund manager at Invesco Asset Management Ltd. in  London , who
oversees $3 billion of high-yield bonds. “I’d imagine we’d
surpass last year’s levels.”  Fresenius is raising 500 million euros from notes due July
2020 that will yield 3 to 3.25 percent, according to a person
with knowledge of the sale who asked not to be identified
because they’re not authorized to speak about it. The Bad
Homburg, Germany-based company is rated Ba1 by Moody’s Investors
Service and BB+ at Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings.  Atalian  Paris-based Atalian is selling 235 million euros of seven-
year bonds yielding 7.25 to 7.5 percent, a person with knowledge
of that sale said. The notes, which can be repaid after four
years, are ranked B+ by S&P.  Speculative-grade, or junk, debt is rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and BBB- by Fitch and S&P.  Deutsche Telekom,  Germany ’s largest phone company, is
selling senior unsecured bonds due in eight and 15 years, a
person with knowledge of the deal said.  The Bonn-based company’s 4.5 percent bonds due 2030 fell
0.4 percent, pushing the yield relative to the benchmark swap
rate up three basis points to 136 basis points, Bloomberg data
show. That compares with a spread of 124 basis points on average
for investment-grade company bonds, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro Corporate Index of securities with an average
maturity of five years shows.  In credit derivatives markets, the Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of credit-default swaps linked to 50 companies with mostly
high-yield credit ratings was little changed 424 basis points.
The Markit iTraxx  Europe  Index of 125 companies with investment-
grade ratings was also unchanged at 103.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  