-- Generali’s Greco Bets on Emerging Markets to Lure Investors
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-01-10T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/generali-s-greco-bets-on-emerging-markets-to-lure-investors.html
Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G)  Chief
Executive Officer  Mario Greco  is targeting growing  emerging
markets  as he seeks to revive profit at the third-largest
insurer in Europe, a mission that cost his predecessor the job.  Generali has agreed this week to buy the 49 percent stake
it doesn’t own in its eastern European venture with private-
equity firm PPF Group, as part of a plan to boost business in
the region, considered by Greco “a core market.” The CEO
expects profitability in the area will be twice as much as in
western European markets over the next five years.  The 53-year-old CEO, who took the helm at Trieste, Italy-
based Generali in August, will unveil Jan. 14 in  London  the
guidelines of his plan to strengthen finances, boost profit and
cut debt. He will seek to convince investors he can replicate
what he achieved over 17 years in the  insurance industry , when
he oversaw businesses in countries including France,  Spain ,
 Turkey  and  Italy .  “Allocating resources in growing businesses and freeing-up
capital in non-core business is the right strategy,” said
Stefano Girola, who manages about 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion)
at Banca Albertini Syz & C. in Milan and owns Generali’s stock.
“Greco is showing investors he is on the right track to turn
around and modernize the company.”  Generali, which operates in more than 60 countries with
82,000 employees,  makes  about 10 percent of its operating profit
in central and eastern Europe. The company has also set up
offices in the main markets of the  Far East , including India and
China, where it has a joint venture with China National
Petroleum Corp.  High-Growth Markets  Generali’s agreement to buy PPF’s stake is “a way to
reinforce its position as the market-leading insurance company
in the region,” Greco said in a conference call Jan. 8.
“Definitely, this is also a clear signal that we invest in
high-growth markets and we use core markets as the engine to
finance growth in the most developing markets.”  Greco arrived at Generali at a time when the insurer’s
capital was weakened by exposure to Italy’s sovereign debt and
its stock was  trading  near the lowest level in more than 20
years. The insurer’s “poor track record for governance”
weighed on the shares as well, Atanasio Pantarrotas, an analyst
at CA Cheuvreux wrote in a Jan. 9 note.  Investors led by  Mediobanca SpA (MB)  and Leonardo Del Vecchio,
which together  own  16 percent of the company, forced Giovanni Perissinotto to resign as CEO on June 2, after profit fell for
four consecutive quarters on writedowns of assets including
Greek bonds and lower earnings at the life-insurance unit. The
controlling shareholders picked Greco, then head of general
insurance at Zurich Insurance Group AG, to replace Perissinotto.  CEO Ousting  The shares, which hit their lowest level since December
1988 on May 31, just two days before Perissinotto’s ousting,
have rallied 42 percent since Greco’s appointment, compared with
the 23 percent increase in the  Bloomberg Europe 500 Insurance
Index (BEINSUR) , showing investors’ optimism about his ability to turn
around the company.  Despite the recent share performance, “there may still be
some upside on the stock,” Matteo Ghilotti, a Milan-based
analyst at Equita Sim wrote in a Jan. 7 report.  In the three months following his appointment, Greco
shuffled management to spur profit growth and smooth relations
with investors. He moved Managing Director Sergio Balbinot to
the new position of chief insurance officer and appointed
Alberto Minali as chief financial officer to replace Raffaele Agrusti, who became country manager for Italy.  Generali also created a ten-member management committee
that will be led by Greco with Balbinot as deputy, and it will
include the heads of Italy,  France  and  Germany  as well as other
top executives.  Asset Sales  While on one hand Generali is boosting investment in high-
growth areas, on the other hand Greco will seek to improve its
capital position and reduce debt by disposing of non-strategic
assets, including the U.S. life reinsurance business and Swiss
asset-management unit BSI Group and cutting costs. Analysts at
Merrill Lynch Bank of America, CA Cheuvreux and Equita expect
cost cuts between 235 million euros and 800 million euros in the
next three years, with a reorganization in Italy and a boost to
efficiency through a simplified structure.  Generali’s solvency I ratio, a measure of its ability to
absorb losses, was 140 percent at the end of the third quarter,
compared with a median of 195 percent for ten insurance
companies in western  Europe  disclosing data, according to
Bloomberg Industries data. The insurer  targeted  more than 4
billion euros of operating profit in 2012 and expects non-life
premiums to climb, while life premiums will match the 2011
level.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  