-- Gillard Law to Encourage Corporate Bond Market in Australia
-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-01-11T03:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gillard-law-to-encourage-corporate-bond-market-in-australia.html
Australia  plans to ease disclosure
requirements for companies selling bonds to individual
investors, in a bid to direct more of the nation’s A$1.4
trillion ($1.5 trillion) in pension savings into local debt.  Treasury released draft legislation outlining changes to
the Corporations Act today, allowing borrowers to sell notes
using a shorter prospectus. The changes will bring “currently
onerous” disclosure requirements for bond sales in line with
requirements for share offers, Acting Treasurer Penny Wong said
in an e-mailed statement.  Australia’s banks and some of its biggest non-financial
companies rely on offshore bond investors to fund their
operations, with the nation’s borrowers raising $70.7 billion
last year from debt denominated in currencies other than the
Australian dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Australia’s pension funds have about half their assets in
stocks, the highest proportion among 29 nations tracked by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, according
to a  report  released in September. Their holdings of bills and
bonds were the lowest after  South Korea .  “Australia has a population that is transitioning
superannuation savings from growth phase to retirement phase,
resulting in demand for assets that offer a fixed stream of
income, such as bonds,” said Andrew Gordon, director of fixed-
income origination at FIIG Securities Ltd. in Sydney. “The
government wants Australia to be a financial hub, and a deeper
market where more companies can issue in Aussie dollars is an
important part of that.”  Less Paperwork  The changes will allow companies to issue bonds using a
shorter, offer-specific prospectus as long as they have released
a more detailed prospectus in the past three years, and have a
good record of continuous disclosure, according to the
statement. The government also plans to change directors’
liability for offers of simple corporate bonds, it said.  “A vibrant corporate  bond market  is key to harnessing our
national superannuation savings and enabling us to domestically
fund more productive investment in our economy and in turn
reduce our reliance on offshore wholesale funding markets,”
Wong said in the statement.  Even after the changes, the local bond market will need to
compete to attract issuers, as global counterparts offer longer-
term debt and more certainty that the deal will be completed
smoothly, said James Hayes, head of fixed income in Sydney at
BNP Paribas SA.  “Until the domestic market provides the same attributes
the offshore markets will continue to be a very attractive
alternative,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  