-- Glaxo Says No Plan for Viiv Spinoff ‘at the Moment’
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-01-10T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/glaxo-says-no-plan-for-viiv-spinoff-at-the-moment-.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has no plans
“at the moment” to spin off its ViiV Healthcare Ltd. unit that
is developing drugs to treat HIV, said Patrick Vallance, Glaxo’s
president of pharmaceuticals research and development.  “ViiV exists as a standalone company of which we are
majority shareholders,” he said in an interview in San
Francisco, where he was attending JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s health-
care investment conference. “It does all of the HIV work, there
are no plans to change that.”  Asked if that meant the company has no plans for a spinoff,
he said, “No, not at the moment. What that’s done is provided a
huge focus around the HIV space, and it’s been an interesting
lesson for GSK about how to get that sort of focus.”  In October, ViiV agreed to buy the rights to HIV treatments
it developed with Shionogi & Co., giving the Japanese drugmaker
a 10 percent stake in ViiV. As a result, Glaxo now owns 76.5
percent of ViiV and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  holds 13.5 percent.  ViiV submitted one of its drugs, dolutegravir, to
regulatory authorities in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Canada  for
approval on Dec. 17. If dolutegravir is approved in the U.S. and
Europe, Glaxo will be entitled to an extra 1.8 percent.  Dolutegravir may challenge the world’s best-selling AIDS
medicine, made by Gilead Sciences Inc. The drug, combined with
one of ViiV’s older treatments, reduced the HIV virus to
undetectable levels in more people than Gilead’s Atripla in a
clinical trial released in July.  Late-Stage Pipeline  Glaxo isn’t focused on spending billions of dollars to buy
new drugs in late stages of testing, and is instead looking
mostly at deals for early-stage compounds and technologies,
Vallance said.  “We have a full late-stage pipeline and I am not sure we
are desperate to bring in things,” he said. “We might actually
be more interested in partnering out some things we have” in
testing. In particular, he said the company is continuing to
explore the possibility of finding a partner to commercialize
its diabetes drug, albiglutide, a GLP-1 drug that would compete
with Novo Nordisk A/S’s Victoza. The company plans to file for
approval for that drug imminently, he said.  As for acquiring the company’s existing biotech partners
such as Genmab A/S or Theravance Inc., “where it makes sense to
do  it we will do it,” Vallance said. “It is going to be a
case-by-case basis.”  Glaxo also isn’t looking at a possible purchase of U.S.
eye-care company Bausch & Lomb Inc., he said. Bausch & Lomb’s
owner, Warburg Pincus LLC, hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to
explore the sale of the business, two people with knowledge of
the matter said last month.  “I don’t think that is on our radar,” Vallance said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  