-- Global Yatirim Soars on Report of Port Unit Sale: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-01-10T15:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/global-yatirim-soars-on-report-of-port-unit-sale-istanbul-mover.html
Global Yatirim Holding AS (GLYHO) , a Turkish
group active in energy, financial services and infrastructure,
surged after saying it hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to study
options including the sale of its port management unit.  Global Yatirim  advanced  5.6 percent to 1.32 liras at 4:10
p.m. in Istanbul today, heading for the highest close since
Sept. 25. About 6.4 million shares traded, more than seven times
the three-month average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Global’s statement to the Istanbul Stock Exchange followed
a report on the planned sale by Mergermarket, a provider of news
and data on acquisitions. Investors may be responding to the
reported valuation of ports unit Global Liman Isletmeleri AS,
which was significantly higher than industry averages, according
to Alper Akalin, an analyst who covers the company at Istanbul-
based Ekspres Invest.  While port companies are typically valued in sales at about
12 times enterprise value to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, the figure mentioned by
Mergermarket is equivalent to about 20 times, Akalin said in a
phone interview today.  Global’s ports unit, Global Liman, may be valued at between
$750 million and $1 billion, according to Mergermarket, which
said the company is “looking to make the sale at this range”
and cited “a source close to the matter.”  Global Liman is a majority owner of ports in  Turkey 
including Port Akdeniz in Antalya, Ege Ports in Kusadasi, Aydin
and the Bodrum Cruise Port in Mugla.  The company reported net income of 145.8 million liras
($82.2 million) for the third quarter last year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Global trailed gains on the  Istanbul
Stock Exchange  National 100 index last year, adding 14 percent
compared with a 53 percent increase on the gauge.  “Ports are the most important assets in Global Yatirim’s
portfolio,” Akalin said. “The stock has upside potential, but
there are many unknowns here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alaa Shahine at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  