-- GM Calls HP Deposition Effort of Ex-Workers ‘Retaliatory’
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-01-10T15:41:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gm-calls-hp-deposition-effort-of-ex-workers-retaliatory-.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  Chief Information
Officer Randy Mott called  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s efforts to
question two technology workers hired by the automaker
“retaliatory” and a “fishing expedition.”  The technology company’s petition filed in state court in
Travis County, Texas, last month to take depositions from the
workers comes as Detroit-based GM is hiring about 7,500
information technology workers over five years as part of a
broader shift to move such work in-house instead of using
outside contractors, such as Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard.  “We’re looking for talent, is the short answer, and we’re
looking for the best talent,” Mott told reporters today on a
conference call. “There is no official legal action. It’s a
fishing expedition, and it feels very retaliatory and harassing
to the individuals. But I think most people will see through
that, and I think talent will go where talent sees the
opportunity and that’s certainly our intent to facilitate.”  GM furthered its effort today with an announcement that it
will hire about 1,000 IT workers for a new so-called innovation
center in suburban Atlanta. Mott, a former chief information
officer at Hewlett-Packard, has previously said that GM will
open four of those centers, with locations in Warren, Michigan,
and Austin,  Texas , having been named already. The fourth hasn’t
been announced yet.  HP is seeking to depose a pair of former executives after
18 employees “resigned en masse and without notice” and went
to work “immediately” at GM, according to a petition filed in
a Texas court. “The company feels compelled to investigate the
potential claims it may have,” Hewlett-Packard said in the
filing.  Absorbing Workers  HP’s deposition effort “has nothing” to do with the
earlier agreement announced in October to absorb 3,000 of the
tech company’s workers already performing duties for GM, Mott
said.  GM had done about 10 percent of its IT work internally and
Mott plans to boost that to 90 percent as Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson pushes to update GM’s computer and financial
reporting systems. The automaker started with about 1,500 in-
house IT workers and ultimately wants to have about 9,000, he
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield,  Michigan ,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  