-- GM’s Opel Stars Making Adam Car in Push for New Customers
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-01-10T11:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gm-s-opel-stars-making-adam-car-in-push-for-new-customers.html
General Motors Co. (GM) ’s unprofitable
Opel division started production of the Adam small car, named
after the 151-year-old brand’s founder, in a bid to win back
European customers amid a recession in the region.  Opel invested 190 million euros ($248 million) to prepare
its factory in Eisenach,  Germany , which also builds the Corsa
hatchback, to make the Adam, interim Chief Executive Officer
Thomas Sedran said today during a presentation at the plant. The
model is being marketed as giving buyers a choice of as many as
61,000 exterior and 82,000 interior design combinations.  GM’s losses in  Europe  since 1999 have totaled $17.3
billion. The Detroit-based  carmaker  has a target of bringing the
operations to break-even by 2015. Sales by Opel and its U.K.
sister brand Vauxhall have fallen faster than European
industrywide deliveries have contracted, cutting the divisions’
combined market share to 6.7 percent in the first 11 months of
2012 from 8.4 percent for all of  2007 .  “The Adam plays an important role as a sign of life for
the Opel brand,” Christoph Stuermer, a Frankfurt-based analyst
at IHS Automotive research company, said by phone before the
event. “From a volume point of view, the Corsa is much more
important,” with Opel likely to sell one Adam for every 10
deliveries of the older model.  Adam’s Price  The Adam is priced starting at 11,500 euros in Germany,
compared to 9,975 euros for an entry-level version of  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) ’s competing Up! city car and 11,600 euros for the retro-
designed 500 model made by  Fiat SpA. (F)  More than 16,000 orders
have been placed for the Adam, which enters showrooms on Jan.
19, Opel said.  The GM division, based in the Frankfurt suburb of
Ruesselsheim, is encouraging Adam purchasers to order the car
from dealers rather than buy it on the spot. Options enable
drivers to choose different colors for separate external parts
and trim as well as a range of materials and lighting for the
interior.  Customers ordering an Adam can be certain that they “won’t
see an identical car,” and “almost every Adam will be
unique,” Sedran said.  “It’s likely that we’ll see more Adam derivatives, but
there’s been no decision yet,” he told journalists following
the event.  The design range compares with 500,000 potential variations
offered for the Fiat 500, according to Claus Witzeck, a
spokesman in  Frankfurt  for the Italian company.  Expanded Lineup  Opel is introducing 23 vehicles from 2012 through 2016,
including the South Korea-built Mokka compact sport-utility
vehicle, which went on the market in October, and the Cascada
convertible, which Sedran said will go on sale in April.  The new models are part of a global GM strategy that also
includes refreshing 70 percent of its U.S. brands’ lineup over a
year and a half. Opel faces an extra challenge as European
carmakers’ sales are set to shrink a sixth consecutive year. GM
CEO Dan Akerson told reporters in  Detroit  yesterday that he sees
Europe’s market “weakening,” and that “Germany looks like it
could be slipping into recession.”  European industrywide deliveries will probably fall 4
percent in 2013, Sedran said today. Opel is unlikely to gain
significant market share this year, he said.  The German division was  founded  as a bicycle and sewing-
machine manufacturer by entrepreneur Adam Opel in 1862, and it
began making cars about four decades later. GM bought an 80
percent stake in 1929 and gained full control two years later.  Peugeot Partnership  GM’s efforts to revive profit in Europe include setting up
a vehicle-development partnership last year with  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG) , Europe’s second-biggest carmaker, while scaling back
production at older factories. The cooperation has prompted
speculation that Paris-based Peugeot may combine with Opel,
including a report in Le Monde newspaper earlier this month that
 France ’s government is pushing for such a move.  “Opel is not for sale,” Sedran said today, reiterating
earlier statements by GM executives. The cooperation with
Peugeot “is just a beginning,” and “we see a couple of
additional projects that are possible.”  Opel will stop producing cars at its 3,100-employee plant
in Bochum, Germany, in 2016 in the first shutdown of an auto
plant in the country since World War II. GM closed a factory in
Antwerp,  Belgium , in 2010 and is selling a transmission plant in
Strasbourg, France, that employs about 1,000 people.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Eisenach, Germany, via 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  