-- Goldman’s De Mallmann Buys NYC Apartment for $13 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-10T21:26:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/goldman-s-de-mallmann-buys-nyc-apartment-for-13-million.html
Francois-Xavier de Mallmann, a
London-based partner at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., bought an
apartment on  Manhattan ’s Park Avenue for $13 million, 13 percent
less than what its owners initially sought.  The deal for the four-bedroom  co-op  at 730 Park Ave., near
71st Street, was completed on Dec. 26, according to New York
City property records made public today. The apartment was once
home to Richard Mack, chief executive officer of AREA Property
Partners LP’s North America division. Mack transferred the
property in 2011 to his wife, Christine, who was listed as the
seller, property records show.  The 4,300-square-foot (400-square-meter) property includes
a library, a staff room and a hallway “ideal for displaying
your art collection,” according to the Corcoran Group brokerage
listing posted on StreetEasy.com. “An outstanding  layout  with
spectacular entertainment space and grand rooms.”  The deal was completed amid a surge in year-end luxury-home
transactions made before an expected jump in capital-gains taxes
on Jan. 1. There were more sales of Manhattan luxury property in
the last three months of 2012 than in any other fourth quarter
since at least 1989, when  New York  appraiser  Miller Samuel Inc. 
began tracking the data.  Luxury sales, defined as the top 10 percent of transactions
by price, jumped 29 percent from a year earlier to 260, based on
data Miller Samuel collected from public records through Dec.
31. The figures capture 85 percent of all such deals in the
quarter and will climb higher as purchases completed in the
final days of last month are reported with the city finance
department, said Jonathan Miller, the appraiser’s president.  Price Cut  Mack declined to comment on the deal. De Mallmann, Goldman
Sachs’s head of investment banking services in  Europe , the
Middle East and  Africa , didn’t return an e-mail.  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment.  The apartment de Mallmann purchased was first listed for
sale in April for $15 million, according to StreetEasy. The
asking price was reduced to $13.5 million in October.  De Mallmann, 42, joined Goldman Sachs in 1993 and became a
partner in 2004, one year after being named a managing director.
He was head of the European financing group before taking his
current job in 2011. He has French and Swiss citizenship,
according to a Goldman Sachs filing in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  