-- Gold Climbs to One-Week High as Draghi Sees Weakness
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y
-- 2013-01-10T19:04:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gold-drops-for-second-day-as-dollar-gains-offset-chinese-demand.html
Gold jumped the most in more than
two months after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi
said economic weakness in the region will continue, boosting
speculation that policy makers will do more to revive growth.  “The economic weakness in the euro area is expected to
extend into 2013,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  today. The metal climbed 7 percent last year, a 12th
straight gain, as central banks in  Europe , the U.S. and China
increased stimulus measures to boost economies.  “Draghi made it clear that Europe is still on the weaker
side, and they will continue to lean towards accommodative
policy,” Bill O’Neill, a partner at Logic Advisors in Upper
Saddle River, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.  Gold futures for February delivery gained 1.4 percent to
settle at $1,678 an ounce at 1:47 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest jump for a most-active contract since Nov. 6.
Earlier, prices touched $1,678.80, the highest since Jan. 3.  “A gradual recovery should start” later this year as ECB
measures work their way through the economy, Draghi said.  The metal also rose after better-than-expected  China  trade
figures spurred optimism that demand for raw materials will
increase. Data this week showed China’s net imports of gold rose
to a seven-month high in November, while volumes traded on the
Shanghai Gold Exchange jumped.  “The market was already trading higher on the Chinese
data, and Draghi’s statements gave it a further boost,” O’Neill
said.  Silver futures for March delivery advanced 2.2 percent to
$30.918 an ounce in New York, the third gain in four days.  On the New York Mercantile Exchange, platinum futures for
April delivery jumped 2.1 percent to $1,634.30 an ounce, the
biggest climb since Sept. 12.  Palladium futures for March delivery gained 2 percent to
$702.20 an ounce, the second straight rise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  