-- Google, Sony, Monopoly, Microsoft: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/google-sony-monopoly-microsoft-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  dropped two patents
related to industrywide technical specifications from an
infringement complaint against Microsoft Corp. at the U.S.
International Trade Commission, where Google is seeking to block
U.S. imports of Microsoft’s Xbox gaming system.  In a motion filed Jan. 8 at the Washington-based trade
agency, Google’s Motorola Mobility unit said it planned to
continue its ITC case against Microsoft regarding a third patent
that doesn’t affect industry standards essential to letting
products from different manufacturers work together. Google also
said it would continue to seek damages relating to all the
patents in federal-court lawsuits.  Google’s move comes after it agreed, as part of a
settlement last week with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, to
limits on its ability to seek orders blocking sales or imports
of competitors’ products based on so-called standard-essential
patents.  Microsoft is “pleased that Google has finally withdrawn
these claims,”  David Howard , deputy general counsel for the
software maker, said in an e-mail.  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for  Mountain View , California-
based Google, declined to comment.  The FTC settlement requires Google to offer competitors
“fair and reasonable” terms for licensing the use of patents
included in industrywide standards for smartphones, tablet
computers and other electronic devices. It also requires Google
to offer to resolve disputes through binding arbitration before
seeking to ban sales or imports by alleging infringement of
standard-essential patents.  The FTC agreement resolved claims that Motorola Mobility,
which Google bought for $12.4 billion last year, abused patents
essential to industry standards to extract higher royalties.  The two standard-essential patents that Google dropped from
its ITC case involve technology for video decoding. The patent
that remains in dispute at the agency is for a way to establish
communication between Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft’s Xbox
and accessories.  Sony Seeks U.S. Patent on Method to Bar Second-Hand Game Use  Sony Corp. (6758) , maker of the PlayStation games console, is
seeking a patent on a technology that would block the use of
second-hand games on its device.  Application  20130007892 , published in the database of the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Jan. 3, covers a method of
restricting the use of electronic content stored in a recording
medium.  This would be accomplished by embedding radio-frequency
identification tags in the medium that would have to match the
use-permission processing system in the console, according to
the application. It wouldn’t be necessary for the device to be
connected to the Internet for the use-permission system to
operate.  Tokyo-based Sony said it intends to sell the game disk and
the use-permission tag as an inseparable set.  Sony applied for the patent in September, according to the
application.  Lack of Patent Notice Tipped POWs to Monopoly-Game Escape Maps  Monopoly games sent to allied prisoners detained in Nazi
concentration camps during World War II often contained escape
maps and secret messages, the U.K.’s Guardian newspaper
 reported .  Waddingtons, the U.K. publisher of the Monopoly game,
worked with a secret department of the U.K. government to
develop game boards with hidden content, and they were
distinguished from those without special content by the omission
of the “patent applied for” notice, according to the Guardian.  Waddingtons, which was acquired by U.S.-based toymaker
 Hasbro Inc. (HAS)  in 1994, laminated silk escape maps within the
Monopoly boards, the newspaper reported.  The games were sent to the camps by fake charities, from
fake addresses or bombed-out buildings, the Guardian reported.  Patent Sought for Use of Bruker Device to Find Drug Resistance  A precision scientific instruments made by Massachusetts-
based  Bruker Corp. (BRKR)  is a key element in a new technology to be
used to identify antibiotic-resistant diseases, the company said
in a statement.  Researchers at Erasmus Medical Center Rotterdam have
applied for a patent on the use of a specialized mass
spectrometry instrument to detect the patterns of chemical
degradation of an antibiotic in a particular patient that would
indicate that a particular antibiotic is ineffective, according
to the  statement .  Bruker signed an exclusive license with Erasmus University
for the use of this technology, which will enable rapid testing
for drug resistance in a clinical setting, the company said.  The company said the  World Health Organization , a United
Nations agency, has reported that the resistance of some
pathogens has now reached 50 percent in some countries, and
about 400,000 such infections are occurring in  Europe  each year,
leading to 25,000 deaths.  Theo Luider , head of the Laboratories of Neuro-Oncology,
Department of Neurology at Erasmus University Rotterdam, said in
the Bruker statement that the patent application covers
“methods and means for characterizing antibiotic resistance in
microorganisms.”  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Car-Freshner Gets $100,000 Judgment in Trademark Dispute  Car-Freshner Corp. , the company that makes tree-shaped
deodorizers for cars, has won $100,000 in a trademark-
infringement case against a Nevada company.  According to a Jan. 4 ruling, Air Fresheners Inc. of  Las
Vegas  is ordered to quit making any reference to “Little
Tree”-related trademarks, and has to quilt selling any
infringing products.  In addition to the $100,000 judgment, the court ordered Air
Fresheners to pay Watertown, New York-based Car-Freshner $10,000
for each future infringement plus $1 for each infringing product
produced or distributed after Jan. 4.  In the past decade, Car-Freshner has filed more than 30
trademark-infringement suits against a wide range of defendants,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company sued Air Fresheners in federal court in
Syracuse,  New York , in December 2009, claiming its trademarks
were infringed by the sale of tree-shaped deodorizers and that
the defendants were using hidden text in Internet ads to drive
potential Car-Freshner customers to their site.  The case is Car-Freshner Co. v. Air Fresheners Inc., 7:10-
cv-01491, U.S. District Court, Northern District of New York
(Syracuse).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Microsoft Loses China Appeal on Font Copyright, Zhongyi Says  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  lost an appeal of a three-year-old Beijing
court ruling that it exceeded the scope of a licensing agreement
for Chinese fonts, according to rights holder  Zhongyi Electronic
Ltd.   The Beijing Higher People’s Court upheld a November 2009
judgment that Microsoft infringed Zhongyi’s rights for Chinese
character fonts, the Chinese company said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “We respect the court’s decision but
continue to believe our fonts licensing agreement with Zhongyi
should have granted us perpetual rights to the fonts at issue,”
Microsoft said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Microsoft, the world’s largest software maker, used the
Chinese fonts “without authorization” in Windows 98, 2000,
2003, and XP Chinese editions as well as worldwide sales of
multilanguage versions of Windows products, Zhongyi said.  “This ruling will not impact Microsoft customers in  China 
as it pertains to older versions of Microsoft products that are
no longer available for purchase,” the Redmond, Washington-
based company said in the statement.  Calls to Zhongyi’s headquarters in Beijing weren’t
immediately answered after business hours.  Literary Works by Woolf, Joyce, Babel Lose Copyright  A blog in the U.K. that covers European copyright law has
 released  a list of writers whose works went into the public
domain Jan. 1. The law provides a term of life plus seventy
years.  Among those on The 1709 Blog’s list for 2013 are feminist
novelist Virginia Woolf, Russian writer Isaak Babel, Canadian
singer/songwriter Mary Rose-Anna Bolduc, “Waltzing Matilda”
author Banjo Paterson, and Irish novelist  James Joyce .  BSA Establishes Reward Program for Software Piracy Informants  The  Business Software Alliance , a Washington-based advocacy
group of software producers, has set up a program rewarding
those who report software piracy.  According to the  terms and conditions  of the BSA program,
it applies only to piracy taking place in the U.S. or  Canada  and
is exclusive to business end users who use unlicensed software.  BSA said it will reward those who provide information not
previously known to the organization, and that anyone who
reports must not be someone who has installed the software.  The amount of the reward is related to the amount of
settlement BSA receives from the organization accused of piracy.  If the settlement paid is above $15 million, the potential
reward payment can be as much as $1 million, according to the
guidelines. The smallest settlement amount that can earn a
reward is $15,000.  The organization said that if it or one of its member
companies files a lawsuit related to the facts reported by the
informant, no reward is payable. BSA said that at its
discretion, it could reimburse informants for their time and
“reasonable expenses” for submitting the report, responding to
the association’s follow-up questions and attending or
testifying at the trial.  Microsoft Corp.,  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Symantec Corp. (SYMC) 
are among BSA’s members, according its website,  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 