-- Google German Exec Charged Over Telekom Austria Kickbacks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2013-01-10T14:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/google-german-exec-charged-over-telekom-austria-kickbacks.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s sales director in
Germany, Stefan Tweraser, was charged in  Austria  with receiving
kickbacks for sponsorship deals he made while he worked at
 Telekom Austria AG. (TKA)   Tweraser and three others are charged with breach of trust,
the spokeswoman for Vienna’s state prosecutor, Nina Bussek, said
today via telephone. The news was first reported by Format
magazine in a pre-release of an article scheduled for
publication tomorrow.  Google “doesn’t comment on private matters of its
employees,”  Kay Oberbeck , a company spokesman, said in an e-
mail. He didn’t immediately reply to a request for Tweraser’s
contacts details. The switchboard at Google’s offices in Hamburg
declined to put a call through to Tweraser, who joined Google in
2008 after working as  Telekom Austria ’s marketing chief.  The case revolves around a 585,600-euro ($772,400) payment
allegedly made to Tweraser by a marketing company Telekom
Austria contracted with during the 2008 European Soccer
Championship, according to the Format report. Tweraser will be
asked to repay the money, the magazine reported, citing a 16-
page court document it obtained.  Former Telekom Austria executives, including former Chief
Executive Officer Heinz Sundt and former Chief Financial Officer
Stefano Colombo, have been charged with improprieties ranging
from share-price manipulation to unauthorized payments.  Austria’s parliament convened an investigatory panel that
focused on Telekom Austria last year. The opposition  Green Party 
published a 398-page record of testimony and documents showing
how the former telephone monopoly improperly funded Austrian
politicians and political campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  