-- Gross Raises Holdings of Treasuries to Highest Level Since July
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-10T21:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gross-raises-holdings-of-treasuries-to-highest-level-since-july.html
Bill Gross  raised the percentage of
Treasuries held in his flagship fund to 26 percent in December,
the highest level since July, while warning of the inflationary
risks of stimulus programs such as quantitative easing.  The world’s biggest manager of bond funds increased the
proportion of U.S. government and Treasury debt in Pacific
Investment Management Co.’s $285 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  from
23 percent of assets in November, according to a report on the
company’s  website . Mortgages remained his largest holding,
though the percentage was reduced from 44 percent to 42 percent,
the least since October 2011. Newport Beach, California-based
Pimco doesn’t comment directly on monthly changes in its
portfolio holdings.  Investors should avoid longer-maturity debt, as
inflationary effects of Federal Reserve’s actions are likely to
be felt many years in the future, and focus on short to
intermediate securities that are supported by central bank
policies, Gross wrote in investment commentary last week. He
recommended U.S. five-year notes in a Twitter  post  Jan. 7,
rather than securities such as 30-year bonds.  “It reflects the potential in the out years for higher
inflation,” Gross said on Jan. 4 on Bloomberg Television’s
“Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Stephanie Ruhle . “The
long bond is certainly not an attractive asset.”  Holdings Categories  The Total Return Fund increased kept its holdings of non-
U.S. developed nations’ debt at 12 percent last month. Gross cut
the fund’s emerging-market debt to 7 percent, from 8 percent,
and left its municipal-bonds holdings unchanged at 5 percent.
The fund’s investment-grade credit holdings dropped to 10
percent last month from 11 percent in November.  High-yield debt remained steady at 2 percent.  The Total Return Fund gained 10.4 percent in 2012, beating
95 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Treasuries returned 2.2 percent last year, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Gross recommended five-year Treasury securities after
minutes of the Federal Reserve’s Dec. 11-12 meeting released
last week showed “several” members of the policy-setting
Federal Open Market Committee said it would “probably be
appropriate to slow or stop purchases well before the end of
2013.” The Fed is in its third round of bond purchases under
the quantitative-easing stimulus strategy.  The Pimco fund’s government and Treasury debt category
includes fund holdings of U.S. Treasury notes, bonds, futures
and inflation-protected securities.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.92 trillion in  assets  as of Sept. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  