-- GT Advanced to Idle Plant, Expects Solar Recovery in 2014
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 2013-01-10T21:28:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/gt-advanced-to-idle-plant-expects-solar-recovery-in-2014.html
GT Advanced Technologies Inc. (GTAT) , a
U.S. supplier of manufacturing equipment for solar and energy-
efficient lighting products, plans to sell a factory in St.
Louis. The facility is developing high-efficiency solar
technology that may not be needed until demand for photovoltaic
panels picks up next year.  The company will fire 35 people at the polysilicon plant,
according to a statement today. Nashua, New Hampshire-based GT
Advanced also said it will scale back its acquisition efforts
this year.  A global glut of solar production capacity drove down panel
 prices  61 percent in the past two years and slowed sales of GT
Advanced’s systems. The company is transferring development of a
high-efficiency polysilicon technology, HiCz, to a Merrimack,
 New Hampshire , plant from St. Louis. The systems will be ready
this year and Chief Executive Officer Tom Gutierrez expects
orders in 2014 when he anticipates solar demand to recover.  “Given current market conditions in the PV industry,
orders for the new generation systems may not occur until 2014
when the industry begins to recover,” the company said in the
statement.  Idling the plant will save about $15 million annually. The
company will incur charges, which weren’t quantified, for the
fourth quarter and in the current year for the restructuring.  2013 Forecast  GT Advanced expects 2013 earnings of 25 cents to 45 cents a
share, it said Dec. 18. That forecast includes the anticipated
savings from the  St. Louis  plant, according to today’s
statement. GT Advanced also expects to take a charge of $80
million to $90 million for the fourth quarter to write down the
majority of its inventory of its existing line of polysilicon
production systems, known as the DSS family.  David Gray , chief strategy and new business officer, will
leave the company Jan. 25 and his position is being eliminated
as Gutierrez assumes responsibility for GT Advanced’s reduced
acquisition efforts  The new structure will “streamline our operations and
align our business with current market and business
conditions,” Gutierrez said in the statement.  GT Advanced fell 0.9 percent to $3.41 at the close in New
York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  