-- IBM Granted Most U.S. Patents for 20th Straight Year
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-01-10T14:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ibm-granted-most-u-s-patents-for-20th-straight-year.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)  racked up more U.S. patents than any other company for the
20th straight year, helped by increasing contributions from its
researchers in other countries.  IBM’s 6,478 patents in 2012 mark a record for the company,
research firm IFI Claims Patent Services said in a  statement .
 South Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and Tokyo-based  Canon Inc. (7751) 
ranked second and third. Google Inc. took a spot in the top 50
for the first time, with 15 more patents than  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.  About 30 percent of IBM’s patents were produced by
inventors outside the U.S., up from 22 percent in 2010. Research
centers in  Germany ,  Japan ,  Canada , the U.K. and  Israel  were
especially productive, the Armonk, New York-based company said.
The percentage of its patents coming from overseas is expected
to continue growing as newer labs in Brazil and  Kenya  ramp up,
said Manny Schecter, IBM’s chief patent counsel.  “Intellectual property flows from where markets are
flourishing,” he said in an interview. “You’ll see upticks in
the amount of technology and intellectual property which we
generate outside the U.S.”  IBM’s flow of patents lets the computer-services giant
produce about $1 billion a year in licensing revenue. The
intellectual property also gives it the freedom to move into new
businesses with less risk of being sued over technology.  Qualcomm’s Bounty  Still, some other technology companies get much higher
royalty revenue from a smaller number of patents.  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,
a designer of mobile-phone chips, made  $6.33 billion  in
technology licensing in the most recent fiscal year -- even
though it’s not in the top 10 of IFI’s list.  Apple, whose innovations helped revolutionize computing and
mobile phones, also isn’t one of the biggest recipients of U.S.
patents. The maker of the iPhone and iPad spends about half as
much as IBM on research and development.  Even so, Apple did make gains in this year’s list, jumping
to No. 22 from 39th place. Google, Apple’s biggest rival in
smartphone software, rose to 21st place. Both companies are
embroiled in  lawsuits  over intellectual property -- along with
other mobile-phone makers such as Samsung -- giving them more
incentive to increase their store of patents.  Broader Trend  Companies are applying for more U.S. patents in general,
Mike Baycroft, chief executive officer of Madison, Connecticut-
based IFI, said in the statement. This year, the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  issued a total of 253,155 patents, a record.  IBM, which has more than 430,000 employees worldwide,
invests about $6 billion in R&D each year. With more than 67,000
patents since 1993, about half of which are active, it is easier
for the company to avoid courtrooms, Schecter has said. Eight
thousand inventors in 46 states and 35 countries contributed to
last year’s patents.  The latest crop of patents underscores the kinds of markets
IBM is trying to enter. In computer security, the company has a
patent for blocking attacks from an intruder to a network. In
the realm of IBM’s Smarter Planet initiative, the company was
granted one patent for predicting traffic patterns using GPS in
vehicles and another for remotely monitoring and adjusting power
usage across an electricity grid.  The patents also included a technique for providing precise
answers to natural-language questions. This is the technology
that IBM uses for Watson, the computer that beat humans on the
“Jeopardy!” quiz show and is now being applied to health care
and finance.  “Our future intellectual property strategy is a reflection
of our business strategy,” Schecter said. “We like being the
leader and will continue to be very aggressive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  