-- Life Insurer Acquisitions ‘Ripe for Acceleration’
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-01-10T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/life-insurer-acquisitions-ripe-for-acceleration-.html
Life insurers may pursue more
acquisitions worldwide to add business as capital builds while
low bond yields and sluggish economic growth weigh on results.  “There seems to be a rising appetite” for deals this
year, Sam Friedman, insurance research leader at Deloitte
Services LP’s Center for Financial Services, said in an
interview. “They’re well-capitalized and there’s some
impatience in terms of trying to meet expectations for what
their return on equity will be.”  Firms led by New York-based  MetLife Inc. (MET)  and  Prudential
Financial Inc. (PRU)  have pursued deals in the U.S. and emerging
nations as they seek to increase shareholder returns. Faster
economic growth and expanding middle classes in emerging
countries such as India and in Latin America can offer greater
opportunities to insurers than developed markets in the U.S. and
Europe, Friedman said.  “The overall M&A environment seems ripe for an
acceleration of deals in 2013,” Deloitte analysts said in their
 2013 life insurer outlook , scheduled for release today. “Merger
or acquisition deals may spring from carrier interest in
entering or growing within emerging markets to pursue growth
potential that seems more elusive in mature regions.”  Economic growth in Latin America is projected to quicken to
3.6 percent in 2013, compared with 2 percent in the U.S. and
contraction in the region that shares the euro, according to
economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s economy ,
the largest after the U.S., may grow 8.1 percent, and India’s is
estimated to expand by 5.5 percent, the forecasts show.  Emerging Markets  “If there’s growth to be found, a lot of it is in the
emerging markets,” Friedman said yesterday in a phone
interview. “You see companies going into South America, you may
see some additional companies going into Asia.”  MetLife, the largest U.S. life insurer, expanded beyond the
U.S. with the purchase of American Life Insurance Co. from
 American International Group Inc. (AIG)  in 2010. Alico had operations
in more than 50 countries at the time.  Prudential acquired an individual life business from
 Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)   Principal Financial Group
Inc. (PFG) , the seller of life insurance and retirement products,
agreed in October to buy Chilean pension provider  AFP Cuprum (CUPRUM)  SA
for about $1.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  