-- Tiffany Sees Profit at Low End of Forecast on Weak Sales
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2013-01-10T21:20:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/tiffany-sees-profit-at-low-end-of-forecast-on-weak-holiday-sales.html
Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , the world’s second-
largest luxury jewelry retailer, said full-year earnings will be
at the low end of its forecast after holiday sales growth slowed
in the Americas and Asia. The shares fell.  Sales in November and December rose 4 percent to $992
million worldwide, the New York-based company said today in a
statement. That was slower than the 7 percent gain Tiffany
recorded in the same period a year earlier.  High-income consumers’ confidence waned in the U.S. as the
prospect of higher taxes approached, David Schick, an analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp., who recommends holding the shares, wrote
in a Jan. 7 note. Additionally, sales of lower-priced jewelry
continued to be under pressure during a muted holiday season for
most retailers, he wrote.  China ’s luxury spending also cooled.  Tiffany dropped 4.5 percent to $60.40 at the close in New
York, the biggest decline since Nov. 29. Cie. Financiere
Richemont SA, the world’s largest luxury jewelry maker, fell 2.1
percent to 76 Swiss francs in Zurich.  In the Americas, which includes the U.S.,  Canada  and Latin
America, Tiffany’s holiday sales rose 3 percent. Sales in the
region increased 4 percent a year earlier. In Asia, sales growth
shrank to 13 percent from 19 percent a year earlier.  European sales gained 2 percent, compared with an increase
of 1 percent a year ago.  Annual Forecast  Profit excluding some items will be at the low end of its
previous forecast of $3.20 to $3.40 a share in the year ending
Jan. 31, the company said today. Analysts projected $3.31, the
average of 21  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey. The company
earned $3.60 a share in the year ended January 2012.  “Due to uncertainty about general economic conditions in
all our major markets, management is planning sales growth
conservatively for 2013,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Kowalski said in the statement.  Tiffany projects earnings growth in 2013 of 6 percent to 9
percent.  “The shortfall in the fourth quarter and reasoning for the
conservative 2013 outlook was primarily weakness in U.S.
sales,” Liz Dunn, a New York-based analyst at Macquarie Group,
said via e-mail. “This is particularly disappointing after
multiple negative revisions to guidance throughout 2012 and the
gross margin weakness acknowledged last quarter.”  Dunn, who has a neutral  rating  on the stock, said Tiffany
may take several quarters to improve sales in its silver range.  Tiffany will report fourth-quarter earnings on March 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  