-- Illinois Gaining Most in 2 Years Belies Pension Gap: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2013-01-10T02:28:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/illinois-gaining-most-in-2-years-belies-pension-gap-muni-credit.html
Illinois  debt is close to the
strongest in two years even after state lawmakers failed for the
second time since August to fix the nation’s worst-funded
pension system.  The $97 billion of unfunded retirement obligations that
Democratic Governor Pat Quinn has likened to a python strangling
Illinois are rising by $17 million a day. Moody’s Investors
Service rates Illinois A2, five steps below the top rank and the
lowest among U.S. states. Last month, it threatened another
downgrade without pension changes.  Yet investors such as Eric Friedland at Schroder Investment
Management North America said they expect the state will repay
its general-obligation securities even though it faces a backlog
of $8 billion in bills from vendors. The  extra yield  buyers
demand on debt from Illinois and its localities shrank to as
little as 1.32 percentage points over AAA munis last month, the
least since February 2011.  “I anticipate  credit quality  will diminish, but at the end
of the day, Illinois G.O. bonds aren’t going to ever default,”
said Friedland, head of muni-credit research in New York at
Schroder, which oversees about $2 billion of the bonds. Rating
companies will probably cut the state’s credit another level, he
said.  No Progress  Illinois lawmakers ended their 2012 session Jan. 8 without
restructuring the retirement systems, which have 43.4 percent of
assets needed to cover obligations, the nation’s weakest ratio,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The inaction is a “slow
strangulation” of the state’s economy,  Richard Ravitch , a
former New York lieutenant governor and co-head of a  task force 
that studied Illinois finances, said in an interview this week.  For investors in the $3.7 trillion muni market, the state’s
reduced credit quality provides a chance to lock in extra yield
with  interest rates  near the lowest in a generation. Illinois by
law must appropriate funds for debt service, according to a 2011
Fidelity Investments report that ranked it among the seven
states with the strongest legal provisions.  Tax-exempt Illinois general-obligation bonds due in January
2017 traded yesterday at an average yield of 1.8 percent,
compared with 0.7 percent for benchmark munis, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  August ‘Idiots’  Illinois securities have returned 2.7 percent since Aug.
17, trailing only Ohio and  California  among 26 states tracked by
 Standard & Poor’s  indexes. That was the day lawmakers failed to
use a special one-day session to overhaul the pensions,
prompting then-state Representative Daniel Biss to say the
legislators “look like idiots.”  In an interview this week, Biss, who was elected in
November to the state Senate, said Illinois “may learn from
 Wall Street  very shortly about the importance” of fixing the
pension systems.  About two weeks after the August session, Standard & Poor’s
cut Illinois’s credit one level to A, sixth-highest, citing
retiree costs. The New York-based company maintained its
negative outlook, signaling another downgrade may occur. Only
California, ranked A-, has a weaker rating among U.S. states.  For the legislators, “it’s easy to disagree -- it’s hard
to be constructive and find mutual buy-in,” said  James Spiotto ,
a bankruptcy attorney at Chapman & Cutler LLP in  Chicago . “The
reason the legislature is there is to make these hard
decisions.”  ‘Present Danger’  Quinn told reporters at Bloomberg’s Chicago bureau last
month that there’s “a clear and present danger” of another
downgrade if lawmakers don’t restructure the pension system.
That same week, Moody’s revised its outlook on the state to
negative.  The outlook was based on the prospect for pension changes
in the “coming months, not just in the lame-duck session,”  Ted Hampton , Moody’s lead analyst on Illinois, said yesterday.  “This is not the time” to buy the state’s general-
obligations, Friedland said. “But if I saw a downgrade and
spreads widened as a result of that, at that point you may be
able to get a good return on the bonds.”  If the past year is any guide, further rating cuts may not
quash the Illinois rally.  The yield spread over benchmark Treasuries on taxable
Illinois pension debt maturing in 2033 narrowed to 2.56
percentage points Jan. 8, the smallest since April, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The pension liabilities have “confounded Illinois
legislatures and governors for 70 years,” Quinn said. Lawmakers
began a new session yesterday with pledges to try again.  In trading yesterday, benchmark munis rallied across most
maturities, with 10-year yields falling 0.06 percentage point to
1.75 percent, the lowest since Dec. 31, Bloomberg Valuation  data 
show.  Following is a pending sale:  New York ’s METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY plans to
sell $500 million of revenue bonds as soon as next week,
according to offering documents. The proceeds will be used to
finance transit and commuter projects. (Added Jan. 10)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  