-- Incheon Airport May Rival Manchester in Stansted Bidding
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-01-10T12:48:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/incheon-airport-may-rival-manchester-in-stansted-bidding.html
Manchester Airports Group , in the
running to buy London’s Stansted hub, said it will tap
relationships with carriers including Emirates and Etihad
Airways to expand its customer base following any purchase.  “We need to look at acquisitions that enable us to leverage
the skill-set we have across commercial and operational areas,”
MAG Chief Financial Officer Neil Thompson said in an interview.
“Manchester has the largest global network of carriers outside
Heathrow and a very broad spread of good relationships.”  Stansted, which may fetch 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion)
in a sale, lured 18 million people in 2011 and specializes in
low-cost services, with  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  as its No. 1
operator. Manchester, which attracted 19 million customers, has
a broader range of flights, spanning Ryanair’s short-haul routes
to Airbus SAS A380 services flown by Dubai-based Emirates, the
No. 1 international airline.  MAG reiterated yesterday that it’s seeking to purchase a
“quality airport” following an agreement with Industry Funds
Management of Australia to bring new equity into the business.  That’s after the company said on Oct. 17 that it would bid
for Stansted following the announcement of an auction on Aug. 20
by owner Heathrow Ltd. amid pressure for an asset sale from U.K.
antitrust regulators. MAG didn’t comment directly on Stansted in
its statement yesterday.  Qatar, Delta  There’s scope for broadening Stansted’s user base, given
capacity constraints elsewhere, though securing new entrants
won’t be easy, said Charles Stanley analyst  Douglas McNeill .  “It’s a realistic medium-term goal, but would have already
occurred to current management, and they haven’t been able to
pull it off,” said McNeill, who is based in the U.K. capital.  Among London airports, Stansted trails Heathrow, Europe’s
biggest hub with 69 million passengers in 2011, and Gatwick --
owned by Global Infrastructure Partners Ltd. after an earlier
BAA sale -- with 34 million. Both larger facilities are
operating close to the limits of their runway capacity.  Manchester is served by 10 foreign long-haul carriers,
versus seven at Gatwick, a comparison of their websites shows,
though the London hub offers 10 more routes overall. The north
English airport is also the only one in Britain outside Heathrow
used by the A380 superjumbo, the world’s biggest jetliner.  In addition to Emirates, long-haul operators that fly to
Manchester include Etihad of  Abu Dhabi ,  Qatar Airways ,  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and U.S. carriers American Airlines,  Delta Air
Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  United Airlines (UAL)  and  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , as well
as U.K.-based Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd.  ‘Broad Mix’  “There aren’t many airports that if they are appropriately
managed can’t have a broad mix of airlines across charter, low-
cost, long-haul and so on,” Thompson said.  MAG is one of only two bidders still in the running for
Stansted following the withdrawal of a group including New
Zealand infrastructure investor  Infratil Ltd. (IFT)  and Morrison &
Co., the  Daily Telegraph  reported Jan. 8, citing people with
knowledge of the auction process. The remaining rival is
Australia’s  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , the newspaper said, adding
that  Malaysia Airports Holdings (MAHB)  may also become involved.  Heathrow Ltd. (FER)  spokeswoman Marianna Panizza declined to
comment on the bidding or the timeline for the disposal.
Macquarie spokeswoman Amanda Mitchell also declined to comment,
as did an official at Malaysia Airports.  Ryanair Preference  MAG also runs the East Midlands and Bournemouth terminals,
having last year sold its 82.7 percent stake in Humberside
airport, bought in 1999 for 10 million pounds, to Eastern Group
for an undisclosed sum. The company turned to IFM for backing
because its owners, the 10 local authorities around the north-
English city, would struggle to finance an offer.  “If we were to make any acquisition you’d expect MAG to be
very well-organized and prepared, both in terms of the equity
and debt requirements and the subsequent integration of the
business,” Thompson said yesterday. “The shareholders will
have a significant involvement. They are very supportive.”  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said Nov. 5
he’d rather an investment fund bought Stansted than an industry
player with an “airport-monopoly mentality” such as MAG. The
Irish carrier had earlier offered to buy a 25 percent stake as
part of a wider group, before being barred from the process by
Ferrovial SA, the biggest investor in the former BAA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  