-- Indalo Says It’s Among Bidders for Petrobras Argentina
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-01-11T16:45:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/indalo-says-it-s-among-bidders-for-petrobras-argentina-stake.html
Grupo Indalo, owned by Argentine
businessman Cristobal Lopez, said it submitted an offer to buy a
stake in  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ’s  Argentine unit .  Indalo’s offer is being considered among other bids that
will be opened Jan. 14,  Indalo’s  press department said yesterday
in an e-mailed response to questions.  Petrobras, which is seeking as much as $14.8 billion to
fund deep-water oil discoveries in Brazil, restructured its
Argentine holdings, including  Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA) , to
separate oil-related assets before a possible sale, according to
a company official with knowledge of the sale who asked not to
be identified because he wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Petrobras’s press office in  Rio de Janeiro  declined to
comment on the Argentine assets in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.  YPF SA, Bridas Corp., Techint Group’s Tecpetrol SA and
Pluspetrol SA are interested in acquiring Petrobras  Argentina 
assets, Argentine newspaper La Nacion reported on Dec. 14,
citing six executives involved in the talks whom it didn’t
identify. A YPF official said Dec. 12 that his company would bid
for any assets that Petrobras offers to sell in Argentina.
Alejandro Di Lazzaro, a YPF spokesman, declined to comment.  Petrobras Argentina slumped 2.4 percent to 3.71 pesos at
1:39 p.m. in Buenos Aires after earlier rising as much as 1.8
percent. The stock snapped a  nine -day rally that raised its
market value to 7.67 billion pesos ($1.55 billion).  Through closely held Indalo, Lopez has built over the past
decade a diversified portfolio of assets from oil and
agribusiness to casinos and media.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  