-- India Nifty Index Futures Gain, Signaling Equities May Advance
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-01-10T02:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/india-nifty-index-futures-gain-signaling-equities-may-advance.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures gained,
signaling a climb in the nation’s benchmark equity indexes.  SGX S&P CNX Nifty Index futures  for January delivery rose
0.4 percent to 6,024.5 at 10:10 a.m. in  Singapore . The
underlying S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
 India  Ltd. lost 0.5 percent to 5,971.50 yesterday. The BSE India
Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 0.4 percent to 19,666.59. The
Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index of U.S.-traded shares
rose 1.2 percent, the most in a week.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the nation’s second-largest software maker,
begins the earnings reporting season for Sensex companies
tomorrow, while the government releases industrial output data
for November on the same day. India has some room to lower
 interest rates  as inflation eases, a central bank adviser said
yesterday.  “The next trigger for the Indian markets may be the
outcome of factory output data and the corporate earnings of
Infosys,” Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP Paribas
Financial Services Ltd., wrote in an e-mail yesterday.  Infosys may report net income of 22.45 billion rupees ($408
million) for the quarter ended Dec. 31, according to the median
estimate of 28 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. That compares
with 23.7 billion rupees in the same quarter last year.  Industrial output  may have expanded 0.2 percent in
November, according to the median estimate of 30 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Production grew 8.2 percent in October,
the fastest pace in more than a year.  Rate Cut  The RBI signaled last month that it may cut  borrowing costs 
at the Jan. 29 policy review after inflation cooled to a 10-
month low in November, while holding above 7 percent.  “They have some room to cut rates,” Ashima Goyal, a
member of the  Reserve Bank  of India’s technical advisory
committee, which makes recommendations to Governor Duvvuri Subbarao, said in an interview yesterday. “They won’t be very
aggressive.”  Overseas funds were net buyers of Indian stocks for an
eighth consecutive day on Jan. 8, buying a net $164 million of
shares, according to data from the market regulator. Foreigners
have bought a net $1.24 billion of Indian stocks so far this
year, the highest among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg,
excluding China and more than three times the level at the same
time in 2012.  The Sensex  trades  at 15.6 times estimated earnings, the
highest reading since March. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index is
valued at 10.9 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Sensex jumped 26 percent in 2012, its  biggest annual
gain  since 2009, as Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  opened the
economy to more foreign investments in the past four months to
boost an  economy  growing at the slowest pace in three years and
to avert a downgrade of the country’s credit rating. The steps
prompted offshore funds to plow a net $24.5 billion into shares
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  