-- India Approves $2.3 Billion Capital Infusion for State-Run Banks
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 2013-01-10T09:28:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/india-approves-2-3-billion-capital-infusion-for-state-run-banks.html
India  approved a capital infusion of
125 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) into state-run banks to
bolster their risk buffers and help them comply with tighter
regulatory requirements.  The country’s central bank will complete the transfer
before March, Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram said at a
press conference in  New Delhi . Ten banks may get funds, he said.  India’s state-run banks, which account for three-fourths of
the country’s banking assets, have seen capital buffers shrink
as they spend more to hedge against soured debt amid the slowest
economic growth in a decade. The infusion will help banks meet
tighter Basel III capital rules to be phased in beginning this
year.  “Unlike the usual practice of infusing money at the end of
the fiscal year, this time the government is doing it early to
demonstrate their commitment,” Vishal Narnolia, a Mumbai-based
banking analyst at SMC  Global Securities Ltd. (GLBS)  said by phone.
“It is a credit positive.”  The government in March of last year said it planned to
infuse 158.9 billion rupees into state-controlled lenders in the
year ending-March 2013. India is among 11 of the 27 member
countries of the Basel Committee of Banking Supervision that
have finalized  regulations  to meet the Basel III requirements,
the central bank said in a Dec. 28 statement.  The  Bankex Index (BANKEX) , which tracks 14 Indian banking stocks,
rose 0.3 percent as of 2:30 p.m. in Mumbai, following the
government’s investment plan.  State Bank of India , the nation’s
largest lender, rose 0.5 percent to 2,534 rupees in Mumbai.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  