-- India’s Oil Ministry Said to Recommend Increasing Diesel Prices
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h a   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-10T09:22:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/india-s-oil-ministry-said-to-recommend-increasing-diesel-prices.html
India ’s oil ministry has proposed
increasing retail diesel prices by 1 rupee (2 cents) each month
until subsidies on the fuel are eliminated, according to an
official with direct knowledge of the matter.  Prices of diesel, cooking gas and kerosene will rise if the
government accepts the recommendations of a committee headed by
former bureaucrat Vijay Kelkar and appointed by the finance
ministry, the Press Trust of India reported Jan. 4. The oil
ministry is keen to implement the Kelkar committee’s proposals
and the matter is expected to come up before the cabinet, the
person said, without specifying a timeframe. Reuters reported
the plan yesterday.  An increase in energy prices will help reduce the
government’s fiscal deficit, which has ballooned because of
subsidies on food, fuel and fertilizer, and boost earnings at
refiners and explorers. The budget gap may widen to 6.1 percent
if no action is taken on subsidies, the Kelkar panel said, a
level termed “unacceptable” by Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram.  India’s goal is to narrow the budget gap to 5.3 percent of
gross domestic product in the year ending March 31 from 5.8
percent last fiscal. The country may face a downgrade in the
next 12 months to 24 months as the government is likely to miss
the deficit target, Andrew Colquhoun, Hong Kong-based head of
Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch Ratings, said Jan. 8.  “It’s in the interest of the country to kill subsidies,”
said Deven Choksey, managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares &
Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Politics should not deter the
government, as the fruits of this decision shall be shared by
every citizen.”  State-owned refiners such as  Indian Oil Corp. (IOCL)  and Bharat
Petroleum Corp. sell fuels below cost and explorers such as Oil
and Natural Gas Corp. share a part of the government’s subsidy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddhartha Singh in New Delhi at 
 ssingh283@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  