-- Liquidity Splits Bond Market Most Since Crisis
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2013-01-10T17:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/liquidity-splits-bond-market-most-since-crisis.html
Investors’ preference for the most-
liquid corporate debt is running higher than any time since the
credit crisis, a signal they’re preparing for the four-year
rally to end.  The expense incurred by credit traders to complete bond
transactions was the lowest last year relative to costs implied
by the market’s average bid-ask spread since 2009, according to
Barclays Plc. The shift, a sign that buyers are favoring
securities that are easiest to trade, has helped financial bonds
beat industrial debt by the biggest margin on record, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  While the focus on the most-liquid bonds has added to their
gains, it’s also positioned them for steeper losses when demand
deteriorates. Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross 
recommended against buying corporate bonds after the extra yield
investors demand to hold them rather than government debt
declined 5.85 percentage points since the end of 2008.  “You had this area where people were concentrating their
positions,” Bradley Rogoff, head of global credit strategy at
Barclays, said in an interview in  New York . “It creates more
upside and downside.”  Liquidity has been stifled as some investors hoard bonds
with prices rising 4 percent last year, the most since 2009, and
as dealers reduce inventories in response to risk-curbing
regulations aimed at averting another credit seizure.  Default Swaps  “I don’t think the environment will change any time
soon,” said Brian Machan, a  money manager  who helps oversee
$433 billion at Aviva Investors North America Inc. in  Des
Moines ,  Iowa . “You’re going to want to look at bonds that you
can actually trade. From traders’ standpoint, they’re not going
to short a bond they don’t think they can get back.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose for a third day.
The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a credit-
default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.5 basis
point to a mid-price of 87.1 basis points as of 12:07 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
benchmark has climbed from 84.9 on Jan. 7, the least since Sept.
14.  The measure typically rises as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, increased 0.25 basis point to 13.75 basis
points as of 12:08 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when
investors seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and
narrows when they favor assets such as company debentures.  Bonds of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  are the most active dollar-
denominated corporate securities today, accounting for 7.5
percent of the volume of dealer trades of $1 million or more as
of 12:09 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Corporate-bond funds that received $20.66 billion of
deposits last year are funneling cash into bonds that trade most
frequently, which have the narrowest bid-ask spreads and are
easiest to sell if managers need to raise cash.  ‘Index Eligible?’  Upon receiving an offer to buy bonds that seem attractive
on a yield basis, “the first question is always, ‘Is it index
eligible? Is it liquid?’” said  Rajeev Sharma , a fixed-income
money manager at First Investors Management Co. in New York.  Actual investment-grade bond trading costs were 37 basis
points lower than the implied expense based on average bid-ask
spreads in the fourth quarter of 2012, Barclays data show. The
gap between the two measures was about the same as in the three
months ended June 30, the widest since the period ended three
years earlier, according to the data.  The data, which derives transaction costs from bid-ask
spreads and bond duration, shows that investors are focusing on
notes that are easiest and cheapest to sell in the face of
higher transaction costs than two years ago, Barclays analysts
Jeffrey Meli and Alex Gennis in New York wrote in a Jan. 4
report.  Financial bonds, which Barclays calls the most-liquid
portion of the dollar-denominated index, gained 15 percent last
year, 6.5 percentage points more than industrial debt, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Seeking Flexibility  The price of bank bonds on the financial index reached
110.3 cents on the dollar on Dec. 31, a 9.5 percent increase
from the end of 2011. That compares with a 3.9 percent price
rise on investment-grade notes during the period, which ended
the year at 113.3 cents.  “We have tried to get more involved in liquid names, and
that was a result of the credit crisis for sure,” Sharma said.
“You didn’t want to be in a place where you couldn’t get out of
certain names.”  Buyers are seeking flexibility as a 6 percent increase in
trading volumes fails to keep up with a 13 percent rise in the
size of the dollar-denominated market, data from Bloomberg and
Bank of America Merrill Lynch show.  The average daily volume of bonds changing hands last year
accounted for 0.29 percent of outstanding debt, the lowest
proportion since at least 2005, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg and Trace.  The 21 primary dealers with the  Federal Reserve , which
traditionally used their own money to facilitate trading, have
reduced their corporate-bond inventories 76 percent since
October 2007 to $57.49 billion, Bloomberg  data  show.  ‘A Corset’  The rally in U.S. investment-grade debt may be waning with
the securities losing 0.125 percent this month through Jan. 8,
the third consecutive month of declines for the longest stretch
since 2008, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
debt gained 55.6 percent in the four years ended Dec. 31.  Spreads on the bonds have tightened 8 basis points this
month to 145 basis points, matching a three-year low, even as
 U.S. government debt , a common corporate-bond benchmark, has
lost 0.6 percent.  Corporate-bond spreads are “so thin that they must be
using a corset -- or the Fed,” Pimco’s Gross, manager of the
world’s biggest bond fund, said in a message posted on Twitter.
“Don’t buy them.”  Strategists at firms from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Bank
of America Corp. forecast slowing returns, with each predicting
a 1.6 percent gain in U.S. investment-grade notes this year,
according to reports from the lenders. That compares with
average annual returns of 11.6 percent since 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Deteriorating liquidity “hasn’t been noticed as much
because the demand for corporate bonds has been kind of muting
it,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a money manager at Fifth Third Asset
Management in  Grand Rapids ,  Michigan , in a telephone interview.
“Once people start dumping bonds, then you’ll start noticing
it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  