-- Italy Sells One-Year Bills at Lowest Since January 2010
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-01-10T17:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/italy-sells-one-year-bills-at-the-lowest-since-january-2010-1-.html
Italy sold 8.5 billion euros ($11.1
billion) of one-year Treasury bills at the lowest in three years
as bond investors bet that caretaker Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s economic policies will continue even if he doesn’t
become premier for a second time.  The Treasury in Rome today sold the 365-day bills at 0.864
percent, down from 1.456 percent at the previous auction of
similar-maturity debt Dec. 12 and the lowest since Jan. 12,
2010. Investors bid for 1.79 times the amount of bills offered,
down from 1.94 times last month.  Even if Monti’s coalition of centrist parties has little
chance of winning the Feb. 24-25 vote, markets seem convinced
his policies will remain in place after the elections. Opinion
polls show the center-left bloc led by the  Democratic Party ’s
Pier Luigi Bersani probably will win a comfortable majority in
the Chamber of Deputies, thought it may fall short of a majority
in the Senate and need Monti’s support to govern.  A post-electoral agreement between Bersani and Monti would
“create a more stable parliamentary majority, which would
eventually increase the likelihood of reforms and fiscal
rectitude,” UniCredit economists including Chiara Corsa said in
an e-mailed note today. “Among the plausible scenarios, this
would be the most positive one for the country and financial
markets”.  ’Monti-ism’  Italy’s 10-year bond yield spread between Italian bonds and
German bunds narrowed almost 20 basis points to 260 basis points
today.  “There’s an expectation on the part of many investors that
there will be “Monti-ism” with or without Monti,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in  London ,
said by e-mail after the sale. “The result of today’s auction,
with the yield declining further, is a reflection of the
continued positive tone toward Italian debt since the  European
Central Bank  unveiled its bond-buying program last summer”.  The ECB’s pledge to buy bonds of countries in financial
distress, coupled with optimism the European financial crisis is
easing, is spurring demand for the debt of so-called peripheral
nations.  Spain ’s government bonds surged today, with two-year
yields falling to the lowest level since November 2010, after
the nation sold more securities than planned at its first debt
auction this year.  Italy returns to the market tomorrow with the sale of as
much as 5 billion euros of longer maturity debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  