-- J&J Clears U.S. Advisers in Bid for New Diabetes Drugs
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-01-10T22:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/j-j-clears-u-s-advisers-in-bid-for-new-diabetes-drugs.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , the world’s
largest seller of health-care products, won the backing of U.S.
advisers for a diabetes pill the company is seeking to make the
first in a new family of drugs for managing blood sugar.  J&J submitted sufficient evidence that the drug
canagliflozin is safe and effective, the panel of advisers to
the Food and Drug Administration determined today in a 10-5
vote. The panel also voted 8-7 that the New Brunswick, New
Jersey-based company’s pill raises concern about heart risks.  The once-a-day pill that expels sugar in the urine after
it’s filtered from blood by the kidneys is part of a treatment
group known as SGLT2 inhibitors that are intended to have fewer
side effects, such as low blood sugar and weight gain, than
current diabetes drugs. J&J is trying to beat to market similar
drugs in development from  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , Boehringer Ingelheim
GmbH,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  AstraZeneca Plc. (AZN)   “I have to say I found this drug very encouraging,”
Rebecca Killion, a patient representative on the panel from
Washington said during the meeting. While the drug has some
risks, it still “addresses concerns that patients have with
struggling with weight loss that affects their disease and
concerns all diabetics have with struggling with hypoglycemia.”  The FDA is scheduled to decide on canagliflozin by the end
of March.  Merck’s Januvia  FDA staff said in a report earlier this week that while
J&J’s studies showed the drug worked as well  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s
second best-seller Januvia and a generic treatment called
glimepiride, it may have heart risks. Studies for the drug J&J
has proposed calling Invokana to treat adults with Type 2
diabetes showed a potentially higher risk for heart events in
the first 30 days compared with a placebo, according to the Jan.
8  report .  J&J submitted interim results of a study called Canvas on
the medicine’s cardiovascular effects.  The studies reviewed so far showed that during the first 30
days of the cardiovascular trial, 13 cardiovascular events
occurred on canagliflozin and one on placebo, according to the
FDA staff. The drug raises LDL, or bad cholesterol, which may
lead to the heart risk, despite favorable changes in HDL, or
good, cholesterol, blood pressure and body weight, staff said.  “It is unclear whether this is a spurious finding or a
true increased risk of early CV events,” agency’s staff said.  Panel members said the only way to answer the question is
to let J&J finish their trial.  Heart Risks  J&J plans to complete its review of heart risks in 2015,
the company said today at the meeting.  Some panel members raised concern that the drug doesn’t
work as well in diabetics who have moderate kidney impairment, a
condition that can occur more often in those with the disease.
At the same time, those patients also suffer increased side
effects while on the medication.  “It is quite different in them than it is in the general
population,” Julia Lewis, a professor of medicine in the
Nephrology Department at Vanderbilt University School of
Medicine in Nashville,  Tennessee . “I’m concerned about it doing
more harm than good in them.”  Diabetes is the seventh-leading cause of death in the U.S.,
according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
disease, defined by high levels of sugar in the blood, affected
almost 26 million people in the U.S. in 2010, or about 8.3
percent of the population, the Atlanta-based CDC said.  “We are pleased with the positive recommendation from the
committee and look forward to working with the FDA to bring this
important new therapy to patients in the U.S.,” Peter Stein,
the head of metabolism development and diabetes disease area
leader at J&J’s Janssen unit, said in a statement.  Kidney Function  There are 11 groups of diabetes drugs on the market, said
 Osama Hamdy , director of the obesity and inpatient diabetes
programs at the Joslin Diabetes Center affiliated with Harvard
Medical School in  Boston . Most of the treatments stimulate the
pancreas to secrete insulin or improve the body’s sensitivity to
insulin, a hormone that helps control blood sugar.  SGLT2 inhibitors, like the one J&J developed, don’t cause
low blood sugar or weight gain. As the first to work on the
kidney, these drugs can be combined with any other diabetes
medications for maximum effect, Hamdy said by phone.  Lilly, based in Indianapolis, and Boehringer Ingelheim, a
closely held company based in Ingelheim,  Germany , plan to apply
for approval this year of their SGLT2 inhibitor empagliflozin,
the companies said Jan. 7 in a statement.  New York-based Bristol-Myers and London-based AstraZeneca
are working to address FDA concerns with their product
dapagliflozin, and may resubmit an application for review in the
middle of this year. The FDA sought more data on dapagliflozin
after advisers determined the risks of bladder and breast cancer
outweigh the benefits of the medicine.  J&J’s canagliflozin doesn’t show an increased risk of such
malignancies, FDA staff said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  