-- James Buchanan, a Star Economist Who Understood Obamacare
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2013-01-10T16:13:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/james-buchanan-a-star-economist-who-understood-obamacare.html
It is sad, but telling, that the
economist James Buchanan died just as Congress was finishing up
the details of its budget deal. Or, for that matter, that this
93-year-old Nobel Memorial Prize winner left us just as the U.S.
entered the stage of enforcement of its new health-care law.  Almost everyone involved in the budget deal agrees that it
is more a product of interest groups than a principled
construct. The same can be said for Obamacare.  More than any of the rest of America’s great modern
economists,  Buchanan  stressed the primacy of interest groups.
Interest groups, he said, rather than ideas or even men, shape
our modern political and economic life. High-minded politicians
might speak of “the public interest,” and claim a special
authority over the rest for their work. As Buchanan and his
colleagues  showed , a public interest is often just another
special interest in disguise.  The economic school he founded, known as public-choice
theory, casts a  skeptical  eye on government officials and
bureaucrats and points out that their work might serve the
public less than a very private enterprise.  I have always wondered whether Buchanan turned to the study
of sanctimonious government officials and their interests
because he spent time in graduate school on the South Side of
Chicago in the late 1940s (the neighborhood where I was later
born). Hyde Park was lively, but uneven. Little shops along 55th
Street, just north of the university, might thrive, but poor
black migrants crowded together in apartments with insufficient
heat during the city’s tough winters.  Chicago Lessons  Buchanan earned his doctorate in 1948, about the time the
politicians and other civic leaders promised that bulldozing
large swaths of the neighborhood and creating new public-private
projects would yield a better Hyde Park, prettier and more
racially integrated.  But the result felt wrong, especially to residents. The new
apartment buildings, in the minimalist international style,
themselves felt as cold as winter. Instead of bringing people
together, they separated them: One complex quickly became known
as Monoxide Island. With the stores gone, there was less life on
the streets. Yet  Hyde Park  locals lacked the vocabulary to
criticize the transformation we had been told was progress or
reform. Who wants to be construed as “pro-slum”?  Buchanan supplied that vocabulary. Instead of calling urban
renewal “reform,” as the officials did, he called it
“politics.” It was important, he said, that all such projects,
whether urban renewal in  Chicago  or elsewhere, be viewed
honestly, that we look at “ politics without romance .”  The housing redevelopment in Hyde Park worked to the
advantage of certain interest groups, political or business. Yet
the high-and-mighty tone of the anti-slum language masked
something. No party involved was any better or any worse than
anyone else: They were all pursuing their own interests.
Politicians often promoted such ugly ambitious projects not
because the projects were good. They did so because the projects
enabled politicians to award contracts to important campaign
donors.  Buchanan spent his early years as a professional in the
days of high economics, when math and Keynesianism were
celebrated. No one challenged economists. They represented
another kind of virtue, that of the intellectual. Buchanan was
different. He challenged his fellow scholars the same way one
challenged politicians.  Sanctimony Exposed  One should force them to realize their economics might
possibly be serving as window dressing for a political agenda:
“What model of politics are you assuming before you start
talking about what’s good taxation? What’s good spending? I
called for them to clarify their assumptions of politics,” he
later  explained  in an interview with the Minneapolis Federal
Reserve Bank.  Nothing outrages the sanctimonious more than being unmasked
as just as greedy as the rest. At the  University of Virginia ,
where he later taught, Buchanan’s frank analysis irked
colleagues. A paper commenting on the squabbles noted that the
university perhaps thought Buchanan’s unromantic view of
political reforms might not fit in at  Virginia , which “with its
 ties  to the Kennedy family, has been close to the liberal
establishment.”  Buchanan’s common sense conflicted with the self-
righteousness of the Kennedys. Virginia could not stand it. The
professor moved on.  I first encountered Buchanan’s work when I asked him in a
phone interview whether “pro-business” tax breaks were
actually good for the economy. He took much time pointing out
that Big Business wasn’t the same as the free market. Buchanan
had spent a year studying in  Italy  and looking at the work of
left-leaning economists, indeed some Marxists, who criticized
the corruption of Italy’s republic before  Benito Mussolini .  He faxed me, for those were the days of the fax, dozens of
pages of the work of  Amilcare Puviani , an Italian scholar. The
pages were in Italian and curled up on my desk unread. Buchanan,
who was already a Nobel laureate, didn’t relent: He translated
over the phone for me. The main idea he conveyed was that hidden
taxes served a pernicious purpose: They tricked taxpayers into
thinking they were paying less than they did, and therefore also
thinking that government could spend more and tax more.  I soon found that public-choice theory explained
everything: Parkinson’s Law, the tendency of bureaucracy to
create more work for itself. Health officials’ interests in
testing small children’s blood for lead made sense when one
considered that finding poisoned children validated their jobs.  Those of us who had the luck to know Buchanan will remember
his generosity. He exposed arrogance, while eschewing it
himself. He was a paradox: The man who studied selfish interests
also sacrificed his own.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. Her biography “Coolidge” will be published in
February. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 