-- Japan Bond Investors Expect Extra Sales From February
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2013-01-10T12:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/japan-bond-investors-expect-extra-sales-from-february.html
(Corrects basis point reference in the sixth paragraph.)  Japan ’s bond investors and dealers
said there’s scope for the government to boost debt sales
starting next month as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s fiscal
stimulus measures are set to increase public borrowing that’s
grown to more than twice the size of the economy.  The Ministry of Finance told the money managers during
meetings today that extra spending for this fiscal year and the
budget for the next year will require additional bond issuance
to the market, an official told reporters in Tokyo. Most of the
participants recommended the ministry selling more debt than
planned from February, according to the official, who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The Japanese government will announce an extra budget of
about 12 trillion yen ($136 billion) for the fiscal year through
March 31 to stimulate the nation’s shrinking economy, the
Yomiuri newspaper and Kyodo News said Jan. 7. Abe told business
leaders the same day that he hopes to compile the measures this
week.  The institutional investors, which include life insurance
companies and banks, are divided on which maturities of debt to
be added, the official said. Most of the primary dealers who are
obliged to bid at the government auctions see the market’s
ability to absorb more 5-year notes on the back of the  Bank of
Japan (8301) ’s buying of short-term securities, according to the
official.  Once the extra budget is finalized, the ministry will
revise its bond-issuance plan for fiscal 2012, in which it said
debt sales to the market will total 149.7 trillion yen,
according to the official.  Benchmark Bond Yield  Japan’s benchmark 10-year bond  yield  fell half a basis
point, or 0.005 percentage point, to 0.83 percent as of 6:20
p.m. in Tokyo, according to Japan Bond Trading Co., the nation’s
largest interdealer debt broker. Government debt has probably
climbed to  237 percent  of its annual economic output last year,
the most in the world, according International Monetary Fund
estimates.  The Finance Ministry didn’t discuss a resumption of sales
of inflation-indexed bonds at today’s meetings, said the
official. The ministry has said Japan may resume issuance of the
so-called linkers the end of the current fiscal year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  