-- Kamada to Babylon Seek U.S. Listing After Jump: Israel Overnight
-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2013-01-10T08:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kamada-to-babylon-seek-u-s-listing-after-jump-israel-overnight.html
Kamada Ltd. (KMDA)  and  Babylon Ltd. (BBYL)  are
seeking to emulate the rally of the latest Israeli initial
public offering as they plan share sales in New York.  Kamada, the Nes Ziona, Israel-based maker of treatments for
hereditary lung diseases, hired  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Jefferies
Group Inc. to arrange the sale of as much as $50 million in
stock in the U.S., a person familiar with the plans said
yesterday. Babylon Chief Executive Officer Alon Carmeli said
yesterday that the U.S. overcoming the budget impasse will boost
equities as the company seeks to raise $115 million through a
New York share sale.  Caesar Stone Sdot Yam Ltd. (CSTE) , the last Israeli company to go
public on U.S. markets with a March 21 IPO, has climbed 59
percent since its listing. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN) 
of the largest New-York traded Israeli companies rose for the
first time in three days yesterday, led by  Mellanox Technologies
Ltd. (MLNX)  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed yesterday amid
investors’ optimism about fourth-quarter corporate earnings
after  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  reported sales that exceeded projections.  “There is strong demand for offerings from companies with
good track records, and Kamada certainly fits that,” Josef Schuster, the founder of Chicago-based Ipox Schuster LLC, which
oversees about $2 billion, said in a phone interview yesterday.
“Earnings look strong. The U.S. market has been fairly solid as
well. We’re expecting even more asset flows into equities.”  The Bloomberg Israel-US Index added 0.6 percent to 86.09.
Israel’s TA-25 Index added 0.5 percent to 1,216.75 at 9:56 a.m.  Prospectus Filed  Kamada’s U.S. shares will be traded on the  Nasdaq  Stock
Market and a prospectus will be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission soon, said the person, who asked not to be
named because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly about
the sale. Chief Financial Officer Gil Efron declined to comment
when contacted by telephone. Shares gained today for the first
day in five, adding 0.9 percent to 34.89 shekels.  Babylon, based in Or Yehuda, Israel, said at the end of
November that it would begin to meet with potential investors
early in 2013. Shares slipped 1 percent to 26.66 shekels in Tel
Aviv this morning. Carmeli said the company expects to continue
to benefit from an increase in online advertising. The stock has
gained 162 percent in the past 12 months.  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) , the Airport City, Israel-
based maker of soda machines, has advanced 135 percent since its
IPO on the Nasdaq in November 2010. Shares slipped 0.5 percent
yesterday to $46.93.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. said last week that shares of
SodaStream will extend their rally as its U.S. business grows,
while Barclays Plc initiated  coverage  of the stock on Jan. 7
with an overweight rating, or the equivalent of buy.  ‘Household Brand’  The fact that SodaStream is also from Israel may help
Kamada and Babylon as “SodaStream is almost a household brand
now, and it has done really well,” said Schuster who manages
the  First Trust US IPO Fund (FPX) , that gained 29 percent in 2012.
“The appetite for attractive foreign companies will remain
high.”  The performance of Caesar Stone, the Sdot Yam, Israel-based
producer of quartz-based countertops, is second to Guangzhou,
China-based  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS)  among non-American companies
that held IPOs in the U.S. over the past 12 months. Shares
advanced 2.7 percent to $17.51 yesterday.  Mellanox, the maker of technology used to transfer and
store data, gained the most in five months, jumping 4.8 percent
to $50.04. Shares have lost 51 percent since the end of
September. The Tel Aviv stock advanced today for the first day
in four, gaining 4.6 percent to 188.3 shekels, or the equivalent
of $49.81.  LivePerson Inc. (LPSN)  advanced 1.4 percent in New York to $13.52
as Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage Ltd. began coverage with a
market perform, or the equivalent of neutral rating. Shares in
Israel rose 3.5 percent this morning to 51.98 shekels, or
$13.75. Internet phone operator  MagicJack VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  sank to
a seven-month low, falling 12 percent to $15.3.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  