-- Karoon Takeover Looming With Brazil Oil Bonanza: Real M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-01-10T07:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/karoon-takeover-looming-with-brazil-oil-bonanza-real-m-a.html
The prospect of new oil discoveries
in the same region that yielded the Western Hemisphere’s  biggest
find  in three decades is transforming  Karoon Gas Australia Ltd. (KAR) 
into a takeover target.  Exploring in  Brazil ’s  Santos Basin , in waters south of  Sao
Paulo , Karoon may be sitting on almost 1 billion barrels of oil.
Together with fields in  Peru , these untapped South American
assets alone are worth $1.6 billion, 35 percent more than
Karoon’s market value yesterday, said Macquarie Group Ltd. No
peer in the developed Asia-Pacific region is projected to gain
value faster, as  analysts  estimate Karoon will trade 61 percent
higher in 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After its shares more than halved from their 2009 peak, Mt.
Martha, Victoria-based Karoon ranks among  Australia ’s top
takeover targets in 2013 because of the potential for profitable
oil and gas discoveries off  Western Australia  and Brazil, said
Citigroup Inc., which named  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Petroleo Brasileiro
SA as possible suitors. While Bell Potter Securities Ltd. says
any bidder will wait for the outcome of drilling in Brazil, the
company said it expects to report initial results from the first
of three wells by the end of March.  “The Brazilian exploration is very, very speculative but
could be incredibly lucrative,” Gaurav Sodhi, an analyst at
Sydney-based The Intelligent Investor, said in a telephone
interview. “If that ends up being successful, then Karoon is
far too small a company to develop those fields.”  Lula Site  Founded in 2003 by former steel industry executive Robert
Hosking, Karoon sold shares in its initial public offering the
following year. Already exploring for gas in Australia, Karoon
said in late 2007 that it  acquired  five offshore exploration
blocks in the Santos Basin.  “Karoon is in the middle of a drilling program, and it
won’t be until we have success or not that that becomes a
factor,” Scott Hosking, the company’s chief financial officer,
said in a phone interview when asked about the potential for a
takeover.  The Santos Basin is also home to Lula, a field discovered
in 2006 that was at the time the largest crude find in the
Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell in 1976. Explorers in the
basin include Petrobras, Brazil’s state-run oil company; U.K.
gas producer BG and Madrid-based  Repsol SA. (REP)   “The South American assets are the jewel in their crown,
and what’s likely to be the company-maker,” Kirit Hira, a
Sydney-based analyst at Macquarie, said in a phone interview.
Hira values that part of Karoon’s business at A$7 a share,
accounting for most of his price target of A$10 a share.  Potential Resources  Karoon rose 1.2 percent, the second-biggest gain among oil
and gas explorers on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Energy Index, to
A$5.26 in Sydney today. With its shares 55 percent below its
July 2009 peak of A$11.82, the company has a market value of
A$1.2 billion ($1.3 billion).  The company last September agreed to sell 35 percent of the
 Santos Basin  blocks to  Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp. (PRE) , which
operates  Colombia ’s largest oil field, for $40 million in cash
and as much as $210 million of exploration costs.  Later that month, Karoon said its share of the Brazilian
fields, which lie in shallower waters than Lula, may total 942
million barrels of oil. Adjusted to reflect the chance of
successfully developing the discovery, a more conservative
estimate may be 246 million barrels, the company said, citing
analysis by Dallas-based consultants  DeGolyer and MacNaughton .  By contrast, the Piracuca discovery, about 5 kilometers
east of Karoon’s blocks in the basin and at a similar depth, has
estimated reserves of 550 million barrels of oil,  Petrobras (PETR4)  said
in 2009.  Cheap Exposure  Karoon is also evaluating the size of the Poseidon  natural
gas  discovery off northwest Australia with  ConocoPhillips. (COP)  That
may hold 3 trillion to 15 trillion cubic feet of gas, according
to company estimates. Six trillion cubic feet of gas is
equivalent to 1 billion barrels of oil.  In addition, Karoon plans to find a partner for its
Peruvian assets and drilling is expected to begin later this
year.  The undeveloped assets offer “early-stage, cheap exposure
to massive gas potential,” Citigroup’s hedge fund sales desk
said in a Dec. 17 report, which named Karoon among 19 Australian
takeover targets for 2013.  On average, eight  analysts  who cover the company expect the
stock price to reach A$8.36 within 12 months, implying a
potential return of 61 percent from yesterday’s close, estimates
compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s the best of 21 oil and gas
explorers with market values of more than $500 million in the
developed Asia Pacific region, the data show.  Sinopec, Petrobras  In its report, Citigroup said likely buyers for Karoon
include Petrobras, Karoon’s partner in another Santos Basin
field, and BG, which has said it will invest further in Brazil.
Jarrod Bakker, the bank’s Sydney-based director of hedge fund
sales, declined to comment beyond the report.  Petrobras is selling assets and cutting costs as it invests
$236 billion between 2012 and 2016, most of it on exploration
and production. Karoon’s deal in 2010 to acquire 20 percent of
the Maruja block from Petrobras still needs regulatory approval,
Karoon said in December.  BG, which said this week it started producing oil at one of
the “Big Five” discoveries in the basin, plans to invest $30
billion in Brazil, where it expects to pump about a third of its
worldwide output by 2020.  Petrobras, based in  Rio de Janeiro , declined to comment,
according to an e-mailed response from the company’s press
office.  Neil Burrows , a spokesman for Reading, England-based BG,
also wouldn’t comment on takeover speculation.  Drilling Results  Beyond Petrobras and BG, potential buyers also include
 China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, Citigroup
said. Analysts -- including Mirae Asset Securities in August --
have said the Chinese company must purchase assets to help its
parent meet a target of more than doubling overseas crude output
by 2015.  Lv Dapeng, Sinopec’s Beijing-based spokesman, did not
answer calls seeking comment.  The South American assets trump the Browse Basin as the
biggest attraction to an acquirer because of the cost of
developing projects in Australia, said Johan Hedstrom, a Sydney-
based analyst at Bell Potter. Any buyer will wait for drilling
results before bidding, he said.  “A good discovery tells you a lot about itself very
quickly,” Hedstrom said in a phone interview. “If it looks
like a good discovery, you can jump to some conclusion about the
commercial value of that.”  Potential buyers may have already looked at Karoon’s South
American assets when the explorer was searching for a Brazilian
partner, said Hira, the analyst at Macquarie. Suitors are more
likely to seek a partnership than buy the company, he said.  Takeover Odds  “If they were interested in a corporate-level deal, we
would have seen a deal done” before the Pacific Rubiales
transaction, Hira said.  Still, success will likely attract bids, said Edwin Bulseco, a Perth-based analyst at DJ Carmichael Pty. He
estimates Karoon’s stock price will reach A$9.60 within the next
year.  “The probability of a takeover would significantly
increase on the back of a successful appraisal of Poseidon and
success in the Santos Basin,” Bulseco said in a phone
interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  