-- Kennedy-Wilson Said to Acquire Buildings for $100 Million
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-01-11T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kennedy-wilson-said-to-acquire-u-k-buildings-for-100-million.html
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings Inc. (KW) , a
Beverly Hills, California-based real estate investor, agreed to
buy 29 office and industrial buildings in the U.K. for about
$100 million, according to a person with knowledge of the talks.  The company, in partnership with a European investor,
probably will complete the deal today, said the person, who
asked not to be identified because the transaction is private.
The buildings are in secondary cities, according to the person.  Demand for properties in primary markets such as  London  has
“created a highly competitive environment,” lowering yields
and increasing investor interest for deals in less-costly
cities,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  said this month.  “As the supply of prime assets reduces but competition
remains strong, we expect that many domestic funds will start to
consider alternative opportunities,” the brokerage said in a
Jan. 3 report.  Christina Cha, a Kennedy-Wilson spokeswoman, declined to
comment on the transaction.  Kennedy-Wilson and its partners spent $2.9 billion on
purchases last year. The company in December said it and a
partner bought a loan with an unpaid balance of 120 million
euros ($159 million) that’s secured by a Dublin office building
and adjacent land. The company also last month announced the
acquisition with partners of three office buildings in the  Los
Angeles  area for a total of $78.5 million.  Kennedy-Wilson, with Irvine, California-based IHP Capital
Partners, also is spending about $300 million on Kohanaiki, a
new golf-and-residential development on the Kona Coast of the
Big Island of  Hawaii .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  