-- Kenya Shilling Weakens for Fifth Day on Rate-Cut Speculation
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-10T10:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kenya-shilling-weakens-for-fifth-day-on-rate-cut-speculation.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
fifth day, its longest losing streak in more than four months,
as importers bought more dollars amid speculation the central
bank will cut its benchmark interest rate today.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy depreciated
0.1 percent to 86.70 a dollar by 1:12 p.m. in Nairobi, the
capital. The shilling has retreated 0.5 percent in the past five
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, will reduce the benchmark interest rate to 10
percent from 11 percent, according to four of six economists
polled in a Bloomberg News survey. One analyst predicted the
rate will stay unchanged while the other forecast a reduction to
9 percent. The Nairobi-based bank is expected to announce its
decision later today.  “The shilling is under pressure as importers bought
dollars in anticipation of an interest rate cut,” Nairobi-based
 NIC Bank Ltd. (NICB)  said in a note to its clients. “Lower interest
rates normally make it easier for importers to access credit,
driving up demand for dollars that in turn puts pressure on the
shilling.”  The regulator lowered the  benchmark  interest rate by 2
percentage points to 11 percent when it last convened on Nov. 7.
Inflation slowed for a 13th straight month to 3.2 percent in
December, below the government’s target of 5 percent, the Kenya
Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 28.  Economic Growth  “There is a likelihood of a moderate cut on the central
bank rate as they seek to strike a balance between spurring
economic growth through growth in private sector lending and
ensuring they don’t put more pressure on the shilling,” Duncan Kinuthia, the head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd.,
said by phone from Nairobi. The shilling has weakened 0.7
percent since the beginning of the year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The country’s monetary authority has lowered its  lending
rate  by 7 percentage points since July to stimulate growth. The
economy slowed to 3.4 percent in the first quarter and 3.3
percent in the second. Expansion quickened to 4.7 percent in the
third quarter.  The central bank offered 2 billion shillings ($23 million)
of seven-day repurchase agreements, a bank official who asked
not to be identified in line with policy, said by phone today.  The Ugandan shilling was unchanged at 2,705 a dollar, while
Tanzania’s shilling weakened 0.9 percent to 1,608 a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  