-- Kenya Cuts Key Rate for Fourth Time to Hasten Economic Recovery
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-10T12:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kenya-cuts-key-rate-for-fourth-time-to-hasten-economic-recovery.html
Kenya ’s central bank lowered its  key
lending rates  for the fourth time since July as policy makers
try to sustain an economic rebound with cheaper credit.  The Monetary Policy Committee cut the benchmark  interest
rate  to 9.5 percent from 11 percent, the Nairobi-based Central
Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement. Nine of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast reductions ranging
between one percentage point and two percentage points, with the
other predicting the rate would remain unchanged.  “The idea is to spur credit expansion because so far the
financial institutions have been very reluctant to extend
affordable credit to the private sector,” Ben Nyamweya, a
director at Nairobi-based Isis Kenya Investment Managers, said
in a phone interview before the decision was announced. “The
central bank wants to help the economy pick up.”  Growth in  East Africa ’s largest economy slowed in the first
two quarters of 2012, to 3.4 percent and 3.3 percent, raising
pressure on the central bank to ease monetary policy to stoke
domestic consumption. It reduced its key rate in July for the
first time in 18 months to bolster the economy as inflation
slowed. Expansion was 4.7 percent in the third quarter and the
government forecasts the economy will grow by about 5 percent in
2013, from 4.5 percent last year.  Limited Scope  Commercial lenders have failed to match reductions to the
key policy rate when extending credit to households and
businesses, citing factors such as a lack of information on
clients’ creditworthiness.  Average commercial bank lending rates have  fallen  to 18.7
percent from 20.2 percent in July. Inflation slowed to 3.2
percent in December, from 3.3 percent the previous month, below
the country’s target of 5 percent in the 2012-2013 fiscal year.  The Kenyan currency’s depreciation against the dollar has
limited scope for the central bank to further reduce borrowing
costs, Angus Downie, Ecobank Transnational Inc.’s head of
economic research, said in an e-mailed response to questions.
Increased spending ahead of elections in March and the country’s
“large” current account deficit are putting further pressure
on the currency, he said.  The shilling closed at 86.60 a dollar yesterday, the lowest
level since May 30, bringing its losses since mid-2012 to 3
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  