-- Kenya Shilling Weakens for Fifth Day as Central Bank Cuts Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2013-01-10T15:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kenya-shilling-weakens-for-fifth-day-as-central-bank-cuts-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling weakened for a
fifth day, its longest losing streak in more than four months,
as the central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  more than
expected.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy depreciated
0.1 percent to 86.70 a dollar in the capital, Nairobi, having
traded as low as 86.73 a dollar earlier. The shilling has
retreated 0.5 percent in the past five days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by central bank Governor
Njuguna Ndung’u, reduced the rate for the fourth time since
July, cutting it to 9.5 percent from 11 percent, the Nairobi-
based Central Bank of Kenya said in an e-mailed statement. Seven
out of 10 economists and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had
forecast a 1 percentage-point reduction.  “The shilling responded to the cut as expected,” Duncan Kinuthia, the head of trading at Commercial Bank of Africa Ltd.,
said by phone from Nairobi. “The depth of the cut is a pointer
to the desire to spur private sector credit growth.”  The country’s monetary authority has lowered its  lending
rate  by 7 percentage points since July to stimulate growth.
Economic growth slowed to 3.4 percent in the first quarter and
3.3 percent in the second. Expansion quickened to 4.7 percent in
the third quarter.  “There is positive outlook on the economy including
stability in both products and foreign exchange markets
reflected in stable inflation and the  exchange rate ,” the
committee said in the statement.  Inflation Slows  The regulator lowered the  benchmark  interest rate by 2
percentage points to 11 percent when it last convened on Nov. 7.
Inflation slowed for a 13th straight month to 3.2 percent in
December, below the government’s target of 5 percent, the Kenya
Bureau of Statistics said Dec. 28.  The central bank accepted 600 million shillings ($6.9
million) of seven-day  repurchase agreements  from bids of 2.6
billion shillings received, a bank official who asked not to be
identified in line with policy, said by phone today. The bank
had offered 2 billion shillings.  The Ugandan shilling appreciated 0.2 percent to 2,700 a
dollar, while Tanzania’s shilling weakened 0.9 percent to 1,608
a dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  