-- Kepco Rallies to 29-Month High on Tariff Increase: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2013-01-10T01:28:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/kepco-rallies-to-29-month-high-on-tariff-increase-seoul-mover.html
Korea Electric Power Corp. (015760) , which
supplies all of South Korea’s electricity, rose to a 29-month
high in Seoul trading after raising power tariffs.  The state-controlled monopoly distributor known as Kepco
climbed 4 percent to 32,900 won as of 9:48 a.m. on the Korea
Exchange, poised for the highest close since July 30, 2010.  South Korea will raise electricity prices by an average 4
percent starting next week, the second increase in five months,
the Knowledge Economy  Ministry  said yesterday. The country’s
power consumption surged to a record on Jan. 3 and reduced the
country’s capacity reserve buffer below the 10 percent minimum.  “The tariff increase will accelerate the company’s
earnings turnaround,” Kim Dae Sung, an analyst at Hyundai
Securities Co., said in a report today. The company may post 5.1
trillion won ($4.8 billion) in operating profit in 2013,
compared with an estimated loss last year, said Kim, who raised
his share-price estimate by 18 percent to 39,000 won.  Kepco had posted  losses  as government controls on prices to
curb inflation prevented it from passing on higher costs to
users. Credit Suisse Group AG raised its stock rating to
outperform, the equivalent of buy, while Korea Investment &
Securities Co., Samsung Securities Co. and LIG Investment &
Securities Co. increased their share-price estimates.  Kepco Chief Executive Officer Cho Hwan Eik said in his new
year speech to employees that the utility should increase
electricity prices to forestall a power crisis. Cho was
appointed on Dec. 17 after a struggle between the government and
his predecessor Kim Joong Kyum over raising prices led to his
resignation in November, before the end of his term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net 
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  