-- Google’s Schmidt Calls on North Korea to End Internet Ban
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T09:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/n-korea-anxious-to-improve-relations-with-u-s-richardson-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  Chairman  Eric Schmidt 
called on North Korea to end its ban on Internet access after a
visit to the totalitarian country with former New Mexico
Governor Bill Richardson.  “As the world becomes increasingly connected, their
decision to be virtually isolated is very much going to affect
their physical world,” Schmidt told reporters today at the
Beijing airport after the visit to the North Korean capital,
Pyongyang. “The government has to do something -- they have to
make it possible for people to use the Internet, which the
government in North Korea has not yet done. It is time now for
them to start or they will remain behind.”  Richardson said North Korea is anxious to improve relations
with the U.S. and is encouraged by recent statements by South
Korea’s president-elect, Park Geun Hye. During her campaign,
Park said she would be willing to meet with leader Kim Jong Un.  The four-day visit by Richardson and Schmidt was opposed by
the Obama administration, which is seeking additional United
Nations sanctions to censure North Korea for its long-range
rocket launch last month. Opposition from  China , North Korea’s
biggest ally and trade partner, has stalled progress on
punishing Kim’s regime for violating a UN ban on testing
ballistic missile technology.  ’Open for Dialogue’  North Korea’s continued nuclear weapons development is
“unacceptable” and South Korea will “firmly” take action on
additional provocations, Park told incoming Chinese President Xi Jinping’s special envoy, Zhang Zhijun, today in  Seoul . At the
same time, the South will keep open a channel to discuss
cooperation, including humanitarian aid, she said.  “It is crucial that the international community delivers a
consistent and clear message to North Korea, thereby allowing it
to become a responsible member of that community,” Park said,
according to her spokesman Cho Yoon Sun. Park and Zhang did not
discuss Richardson and Schmidt’s trip to North Korea, Cho said.  Richardson’s delegation didn’t meet Kim and failed to win
the release of a detained American citizen. North Korea
confirmed last month it had detained the Korean-American after
he entered the country in November on a tour. The man,
identified as Pae Jun Ho, confessed to committing a crime
against North Korea after entering Nov. 3, the official Korean
Central News Agency reported, without specifying the crime.  Information Ban  North Korea bans any infiltration of independent
information. Kim, the Swiss-educated leader who is in his second
year in power, has increasingly called for greater openness
toward using modern technologies such as the Internet. Yet few
of the country’s 24 million people can access the World Wide
Web, and the government offers a domestic intranet service that
features an information portal called  Naenara .  Schmidt said that North Korea’s existing mobile-phone
network, operated in a joint venture with  Orascom Telecom Media
& Technology Holding SAE (OTMT) , could be retooled to offer Internet
access. There are about 1 million phones on the network, Schmidt
said.  “It would be very easy for them to turn that on,” Schmidt
said.  Orascom Telecom, an Egyptian mobile-phone operator headed
by billionaire Naguib Sawiris, won the exclusive 25-year license
in January 2008 for a 75 percent stake in CHEO Technology, a
joint venture with the country’s state-owned Korea Post and
Telecommunications Corp. The Cairo-based company said in
February 2012 that subscribers to its 3G mobile-phone network
exceeded 1 million.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  