-- Nabucco Says Has ‘A Lot to Negotiate’ Over Shah Deniz Accord
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2013-01-10T15:27:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/nabucco-shah-deniz-have-a-lot-to-negotiate-dolezal-says-1-.html
The Nabucco natural gas pipeline and
operators of the Shah Deniz II, Azerbaijan’s biggest oilfield,
have “a lot to negotiate” before signing a joint development
agreement, Nabucco spokesman Christian Dolezal said.  The Shah Deniz partners, which include  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Statoil ASA (STL) ,
 Total SA (FP)  and Socar, picked the Nabucco West pipeline in June as
a potential export route to  Europe  and agreed in principle with
Nabucco shareholders in Sofia today on joint funding development
costs against a 50 percent equity option in the pipeline
project. The agreement will be signed in Vienna soon, Dolezal
said in an interview.  “It’s important that we have an agreement that will lead
to a final decision in June 2013,” Dolezal said. “We still
have a lot to negotiate with the Shaz Deniz consortium partners
to align everything in terms of the final decision.”  The 1,300-kilometer (810-mile) link backed by the European
Union is competing with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, known as
TAP, for rights to export gas from the Shah Deniz field, which
may hold 1.2 trillion cubic meters of fuel in Azerbaijan’s part
of the  Caspian Sea . The EU wants to diversify supplies away from
 Russia , which provides a quarter of its natural gas.  Shah Deniz operators plan to make a final choice between
the pipelines before an  investment decision  on expanding the
field is due in mid-2013.  Project Deliverability  “The Shah Deniz gas field is a very big investment to
undertake and we have to meet criteria in terms of project
deliverability and market penetration among others,” Dolezal
said. “We are working very closely and we are in a very good
position now to deliver these criteria, but still this is a work
in progress.”  Nabucco West would transport gas from the Turkey-Bulgaria
border to the Baumgarten gas hub in  Austria  via Romania and
Hungary. It’s a shorter version of a pipeline that initially
would also have crossed  Turkey  and  Iran .  “We reduced the cost after reducing the length of the
pipeline,” Dolezal said. “We don’t have a new cost estimate
yet. We can communicate when we are coming closer to finalizing
the field engineering in the course of this year.”  Nabucco Gas Pipeline International GmbH is now working on
an environmental and social-impact assessment, Dolezal said.  “We have finalized the submission of public papers to the
authorities and we’re now going to public hearings,” he said.  Five Steps  Nabucco shareholders mapped today five steps to be taken
until June, which include submitting bids for gas volumes to be
purchased and specify the details of the commercial agreement
with Shah Deniz, Bulgarian Energy and Economy Minister Delyan Dobrev told reporters.  Bulgaria  will set up a project company to build the pipe
that will connect Turkey’s national gas grid with Bulgaria’s,
which will be the first section of the Nabucco pipeline, Mihail
Andonov, executive director of the Bulgarian Energy Holding in
Sofia told reporters. The planned 225-kilometer (140-mile) pipe
will link Marmara in Turkey with Lozenets in Bulgaria and is
estimated to cost 300 million euros ($396 million) of which the
European Union pledged to pay 200 million euros, he said. The
plan is still being negotiated with Turkey, Andonov said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  