-- NBA Washouts Have China Calling Foul
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-01-10T00:45:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/nba-washouts-have-china-calling-foul.html
On Dec. 9, the American basketball
player  Marcus Williams , formerly of the  National Basketball
Association ’s San Antonio Spurs and  Los Angeles Clippers , did
something no other player in the 17-year history of the Chinese
Basketball Association had accomplished: He  tested positive  for
smoking marijuana.  The fact that Williams, who played for the Shanxi Zhongyu
Brave Dragons, is a foreigner was of particular importance to
the bureaucrats who administer the CBA. Williams, and the dozens
of other non-Chinese who play in the league, have long been
viewed as necessary to improve the association.  But as the number and  quality  of foreign players has grown,
a quiet yet unmistakable establishment backlash has formed
against their role in the league, questioning whether such
outsiders are stunting China’s development into a world
basketball power and hindering its embrace of athletics as a
proxy for national honor and international standing.  On Jan. 3, Guan Yin, an official associated with the
government-run Shanghai Sports Institute, wrote an article
titled “ Foreign Assistance Is Like a Slow Poison ” for the city’s
Xinmin Evening News. In it, he laments: “We might as well take a
look at this year’s CBA statistics: The top 26 scorers are all
foreigners except for Yi Jianlian, who ranks 14th. Foreigners
dominate the top-10 stats for rebounds, assists, and on-court
efficiency, almost without exception. I can’t help but ask: Who
plays a leading role in the so-called Chinese professional
basketball league? And just whose league is it, anyway?”  By player count, it’s still a Chinese league. In the 2012-
2013 season, roughly  25 percent  of  the league’s 250 players  (or
so -- rosters fluctuate) are foreign passport holders, and of
those, about 70 percent are Americans, many with at least some
NBA experience. Some, like Qingdao’s Tracy McGrady, were All-
Stars. The recent influx of relatively expensive NBA talent is
primarily  stars at the ends of their NBA careers  and  players
with discipline or reputation problems  who are largely
unsignable in the U.S.  The latter group rankles  China ’s pricklier basketball
pundits, and it’s not difficult to find commentaries on China’s
microblogs, or -- more prominently -- in its newspapers,
wondering why China must be the destination of last resort for
wastrel American basketball players looking for one more (big)
paycheck.  Of the most recent versions of these arguments, none was
more prominent than a Jan. 1  editorial  in the West China Daily
News, a Chengdu-based newspaper with daily circulation of more
than 1 million.  In it, the editors discussed Williams, published the name
of another American basketball player suspected of smoking
marijuana, claimed that there are many other “African-American”
pot-smokers in the CBA (an allegation aired in other  Communist
Party-owned publications , usually sourced anonymously),
intimated that foreign players were guilty of colluding with
international organized crime syndicates to fix games, and
concluded: “Although the CBA cannot be considered one of the
world’s top leagues, it can learn from and integrate with the
NBA. However, the CBA wants good things from the NBA elite, not
bad things like gambling and drugs while serving as a shelter
for NBA trash.”  A whiff of xenophobia, and occasionally racism, permeates
much of the critical editorializing about imported players, a
fact no doubt encouraged by rules that limit the number of
foreign players on a team and restrict certain honors to Chinese
players.  Perhaps the most egregious example of the latter is  a rule
prohibiting  a foreign player from winning the CBA’s most
valuable player award -- even when it’s well-deserved, as it was
when Stephon Marbury led the Beijing Ducks to last year’s league
championship. More than 1 million disappointed fans subsequently
supported an online  campaign  to build  a statue of Marbury in
Beijing .  The Bayi Rockets, the team owned and operated by the
 People’s Liberation Army , employs no foreigners -- only soldiers
-- and remains  a long-time favorite  of patriots and government
officials. While the team dominated the league during its early
years, it hasn’t  won a championship  since 2007: Teams with
foreign players have supplanted it. Most humiliating of all, the
CBA has implemented rules that particularly restrict the time
that foreign players can be on the court against Bayi.  However, in the eyes of many Chinese fans, the problem
isn’t the foreign players, but the failure of China and its
massive athletic bureaucracy to develop basketball players who
can rival the international competition. Yao Ming, the now-
retired NBA star who began his career with  Shanghai ’s CBA team,
was the first -- and so far last -- Chinese-developed player to
reach that standard. China’s basketball fans blame such a
demoralizing state of affairs on numerous factors: race, culture
and the state-run athletic system.  An anonymous microblogger in Guangzhou  tweeted  on Jan. 6 to
the Twitter-like Sina Weibo service: “The word ‘China’ seems so
feeble painted on the court. We can’t help it, Chinese players,
even the Asian players, don’t really have much talent. In most
cases, those NBA players have talent. Furthermore, do our
Chinese players train hard? We can judge whether they do from
their musculature.”  No conclusions are drawn about the allegedly poor
musculature of Chinese basketball players as compared to their
foreign counterparts, but the sense of frustration is palpable.
Theoretically, this frustration should be enough to damp
interest in the CBA. But the association  has never been more
popular in China , with record numbers of sponsors and viewers.  The reason is obvious even to the casual fan: The foreign
influx has lifted the quality of play. It doesn’t hurt that some
of the foreigners have NBA pedigrees familiar to the Chinese who
grew up watching  Yao Ming ’s exploits. For these fans, what’s
important isn’t Chinese dominance on the court -- it’s watching
good basketball.  Indeed, much of the microblogged reaction to Williams’s
drug bust and subsequent six-month suspension was quite
different from the newspaper reaction, especially in the wake of
the apology he  tweeted  to his roughly 11,000 followers on New
Year’s Eve, which concluded, “I understand everyone’s
disappointment and i will do everything to improve and grow from
this.”  That tweet has been retweeted -- or forwarded -- more than
1,300 times and generated 2,200 comments in response, seemingly
all positive, with fans wishing him a speedy return to their
(suddenly) beleaguered team. “It’s nothing,”  tweeted  one fan in
Taiyuan, home of the Brave Dragons, minutes after Williams
published his apology. “Waiting for you to come back next
season! Waiting for you to come back.”  Another fan in Taiyuan, who uses the handle SylarZhang
went so far as to send off his favorite disgraced foreign player
with a  bit of English : “We will never never disappointed in you,
and look forward to next season Return of the King, we all
Shanxi fans waiting for you. Never give up! Come on Marcus!”  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing a book on the global recycling industry. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article Zara Kessler
at  zkessler@bloomberg.net . 