-- Netflix’s ‘Arrested Development’ May Be Movie Precursor
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/netflix-s-arrested-development-may-be-movie-precursor.html
“Arrested Development,” the comedy
TV show canceled in 2006 by Fox after three seasons and being
revived this year by  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , will set up a storyline in
its new series that could form the basis of a movie.  “This isn’t season four,”  Jason Bateman , a star of the
program, told reporters at a television critics’ conference in
Pasadena, California, yesterday. “Hopefully this is act one of
what becomes a feature film.”  Bringing back “Arrested Development” is central to
Netflix’s strategy to attract new subscribers and retain its
current customers with exclusive programming. The online
streaming service is also adding the Ricky Gervais comedy show
“Derek,” the drama “Hemlock Grove” from horror movie
producer Eli Roth and the political drama “House of Cards,”
starring  Kevin Spacey .  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix plans to release all 14
episodes of the new series at the same time in May, said  Ted Sarandos , Netflix’s chief content officer, at the event.  Mitch Hurwitz, the creator of “Arrested Development,”
would only say at the conference that the new plot revolves
around a single incident. Each episode will show how the
incident is viewed by the different characters, played by
Michael Cera, Will Arnett, David Cross, Portia de Rossi, Jeffrey
Tambor, Jessica Walter and Bateman.  International Rights  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox holds the international rights to the new
episodes, as well as for producing a potential movie, said
Sarandos. That may complicate efforts to produce a movie based
on the series, he said.  With the first three seasons of “Arrested Development”
already available on Netflix, Sarandos said the program has
built a following in the 40 markets where the streaming service
is available.  “It’s not always easy for comedies to translate,”
Sarandos said. “‘Arrested Development’ is a rare bird.”  Netflix plans to market the return of “Arrested
Development” in print publications and billboards, Sarandos
said. Netflix, one of the biggest online advertisers, also plans
to alert viewers on its website to the program, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  