-- News Corp. Tabloid Swaps Sex for Cats to Buff Image
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-01-12T12:20:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/news-corp-tabloid-swaps-sex-for-cats-among-brands-buffing-image.html
(Corrects spelling of Grey executive’s name in fourth
paragraph of story published Jan. 10)  Rupert Murdoch ’s  The Sun , the U.K’s.
best-selling tabloid known for photos of topless women and
celebrity sex scandals, is promoting goodwill and funny cats in
its latest ad campaign to wipe away the January blues.  Under its  “Big Smile Giveaway” campaign , newspaper
readers will be sent on holiday, treated to free tea and even
have their road tolls paid by The Sun’s Smile Squad, which will
visit towns across the U.K. For owner  News Corp. (NWSA) , the effort may
be the latest attempt to restore the tattered image of Murdoch’s
media empire dragged down by phone-hacking charges and the
arrests of top executives.  The tactics are also part of a push by advertising agencies
to highlight their clients’ social and environmental
initiatives. With the corporate world reeling from scandals and
missteps by executives, companies from condom makers to soda
manufacturers are trying to keep brands above the fray, handing
ad agencies a new type of marketing method that is boosting
their global  $497 billion  business.  “For an organization that has a reputational trust issue
this type of marketing is going to be critical,” said Leo
Rayman, head of planning for  WPP Plc (WPP) ’s Grey London, which helped
create the Sun’s campaign.  In similar moves,  Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc (RB/) ’s Durex
donates condoms to Haiti, Unilever’s Lifebuoy soap brand
promotes handwashing in Africa and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  reduces waste
by using bottles made with plant-based material.  Give Back  Companies’ social and environmental efforts increasingly
play a role in consumers’ decisions on which products and
services to buy, said Ian Maude, a media analyst at Enders
Analysis in London.  “The feeling now is that in order to win you’ve got to
give back a bit and show that to your customers,” he said.
“You don’t have to win by screwing everyone else.”  In the U.S., 56 percent of  Internet users  said they bought
a brand because proceeds went to a good cause or the brand
supported a particular cause, according to a survey by  AYTM , a
San Francisco-based market researcher.  “It’s definitely a significant trend that’s growing, and
part of it has to do with transparency,” said Simeon Duckworth,
head of business planning at Mindshare, a WPP-owned  marketing
company  that works with  Ford Motor Co. (F) , Unilever and HSBC
Holdings Plc.  The Sun’s 50-second TV spot for “Big Smile Giveaway”
began airing Jan. 1. The ad features a young girl singing and
dancing about in her room encouraging viewers to “smile through
the pain” that is January and to focus on things that make life
fun: boy bands, silly puns, funny cats and two-for-ones.  Trust Issue  Executives and companies are being held more accountable
these days with the rise of social media, which has placed power
in the hands of consumers who can influence their friends on
Twitter Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s websites or even galvanize
masses like at last year’s Arab Spring uprisings.  “The behavior of governments and businesses led the world
to the edge of collapse,” said  David Jones , CEO at  Havas SA (HAV) ,
France’s second-biggest ad company. “People are now empowered
through social media to sanction or support business.”  A company that is responsible and showing that to consumers
will do better in business, said Jones, who advised U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  during his election campaign.  Blood Relations  Ad agencies are also benefiting from political initiatives
seeking to promote peace.  Saatchi & Saatchi , owned by  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , the third-
largest advertising company, was behind the  “Blood Relations” 
short film that draws attention to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict by featuring bereaved families on both sides donating
blood to each other.  “In the backdrop of economic hardship there’s not much joy
to be had and it’s amazing to feel you’ve been part of something
that has such potential in the world,” said  Robert Senior ,
 Saatchi & Saatchi ’s head of Europe,  Middle East  and Africa.  The attempt to appeal to consumers’ emotions also works in
the corporate world.  Proctor & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s spot for Pantene shampoo, which
follows a chubby Russian girl as she overcomes obstacles to
become a champion gymnast, was also created by the  Grey Group 
and was shown online only, with P&G pledging 5 million rubles
($165,000) to Russia’s Olympic rhythmic gymnastics team should
it receive 5 million views. To date it’s got more than 5.3
million views.  “We felt that we needed to bring more local relevance for
consumers,” said  Tanja Riemann , a brand manager for P&G in
Moscow. “The Olympic ad is very Russian from the girl living in
a small village to her relationship with her grandmother.”  Toilet Academy  Unilever’s  Domestos  cleaner is sponsoring a Toilet Academy,
which was designed to bring attention to poor sanitation
conditions in parts of the world.  “Making marketing noble again is possible,” said Marc
Matthieu, senior vice president for marketing at the company. ’  At Coca-Cola, an ad spot called  “Daniel and His Mother” 
features the son of a polymer scientist who helped invent the
company’s plant-based PlantBottle packaging, extolling how much
his mom cares about the environment.  The recession that began in 2007 “drove out these issues
at companies,” said Scott Vitters, general manager of Coca-
Cola’s PlantBottle group. The packaging for plastic bottles,
made from up to 30 percent plant-based material, is credited
with increasing sales at the company’s Dasani bottled water
brand in  North America  by 11 percent in 2011.  Coca-Cola, which spent $3.3 billion on advertising in 2011,
also collaborates with  HJ Heinz Co. (HNZ) , Ford Motor Co. and  Nike
Inc. (NKE)  to speed up the development of products made from plants.  Bottom Lines  The emergence of social media means a company can go from
“hero to zero” in seconds if they are caught contradicting
themselves,’ Saatchi & Saatchi’s Senior said.  Still, even as companies tout sustainability, they aren’t
charities and topics such as profit margins and investor returns
remain clearly at the forefront of business, said  Hamish
Kinniburgh , global strategy officer at the  Universal McCann  ad
agency.  Socially aware ads aren’t an “uncommercial activity,” he
said. “Ultimately advertising is about selling and delivering
to clients’ bottom lines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  