-- News Corp. Said to Settle Blair, Beckham Hacking Cases
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-10T16:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/news-corp-said-to-settle-cherie-blair-phone-hacking-lawsuit.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  settled more than 100
lawsuits over phone hacking by journalists at the now-defunct
News of the World tabloid in Britain as it seeks to avoid a
civil trial, according to people familiar with the matter.  Among 111 victims who settled since a hearing in the case
last month are Cherie Blair, the wife of former Prime Minister
Tony Blair, and Ted Beckham, the father of soccer player David Beckham, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  The accords follow 22 similar deals in December, including
a settlement with British actor Hugh Grant, one of the most
vocal critics of the scandal over illegal voice-mail
interception. Thirty-one remaining cases will go to trial later
this year if they aren’t resolved.  “It’s now been settled -- we’re delighted,” Beckham’s
lawyer, Gerald Shamash, said of the lawsuit. He declined to give
any details.  News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch closed the News of the
World in July 2011 in response to public anger over revelations
the tabloid hacked the voice mail of murdered schoolgirl Milly
Dowler a decade ago. Prosecutors overseeing criminal cases in
the matter have said the newspaper victimized more than 600
people between 2000 and 2006.  Dan McMillan, a communications manager for News Corp. in
 London , declined to confirm the settlements in a phone interview
today.  Appropriate Compensation  “We’ve been keen from the start to pay the appropriate
compensation to the right people, and have sought to minimize
the duration and distress of the process,” McMillan said.  An earlier trial scheduled for February 2012 was called off
after more than 70 lawsuits were settled. Lawyers for News
Corp.’s U.K. unit, News International, have said they hope to
avoid the second scheduled trial as well.  The Guardian newspaper in London reported the settlements
yesterday.  Blair’s lawyer, Graham Atkins of Atkins Thomson Solicitors,
declined to comment when reached on his mobile phone.  At a hearing last month, Judge Geoffrey Vos said lawyers
for the publisher and the victims must select seven or eight
lead cases for the trial, including “famous and non-famous”
people, to help determine a range of damages for different types
of victims.  More than 80 people have been arrested in relation to
wrongdoing at News Corp.’s U.K. operation, including Rebekah Brooks, its former chief executive officer.  Brooks is among eight former News Corp. journalists charged
in July with conspiring to hack the phones of people including
actors Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie. A criminal trial is
scheduled for September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  