-- Nissan to Shift Murano Production to U.S. From Japan
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-01-10T23:43:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/nissan-to-shift-murano-production-to-u-s-from-japan.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  plans to shift
production of Murano crossover vehicles to the U.S. from  Japan 
next year as the carmaker continues boosting North American
production to insulate itself from currency swings.  A revamped Murano will be produced in Canton, Mississippi,
starting in 2014, the Yokohama, Japan-based company said in an
e-mailed statement. Nissan is already adding Sentra small car
production in Canton, and Murano will be the eighth model to be
built at the 10-year-old plant.  “With the addition of this new model in Canton, Nissan is
well on its way toward meeting our goal to manufacture 85
percent of the vehicles we sell in the U.S. right here in  North
America ,”  Bill Krueger , vice chairman of Nissan Americas, said
in the statement yesterday.  The company, Japan’s second-largest automaker, accelerated
efforts to expand North American vehicle production after the
yen surged in 2011 to 75.82 against the dollar, eroding profit
margins for Japan-built exports to the U.S. While the yen has
eased to about 88 to the dollar, Nissan,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and
 Honda Motor Co. (7267)  are all raising U.S. and Mexican output.  Nissan yesterday said it’s also begun making Leaf electric
cars in Smyrna, Tennessee.  A prototype crossover vehicle is to be shown at the North
American International Auto Show in Detroit on Jan. 14 showing
styling “cues” for future Nissan models, the company said,
without elaborating.  U.S. sales of the current Murano, last redesigned in 2010,
fell 5.5 percent in 2012 to 49,608, according to researcher
Autodata Corp.  Additional Jobs  Nissan’s North American production of cars and trucks at
plants in  Tennessee , Mississippi and Mexico grew 14 percent last
year to 1.33 million, based on figures from the company.  While adding Murano assembly in Mississippi will require
“several hundred jobs,” Nissan hasn’t determined how many
workers may be added and isn’t disclosing the cost of the
project, said Travis Parman, a company spokesman. Canton has
about 5,200 workers, according to a company  website .  The company also announced a program this week for contract
workers at the plant to become direct Nissan employees, Parman
said, without elaborating.  Along with Sentra, Nissan makes Titan and Frontier pickups,
Armada and Xterra sport-utility vehicles, Altima sedans and NV
commercial vehicles in Canton.  Nissan’s North American operations are based in Franklin,
Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  