-- Nixon 100th Attracts Kissinger, Ben Stein: D.C. Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2013-01-10T16:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/nixon-100th-attracts-kissinger-ben-stein-d-c-scene.html
Friends and family of Richard Nixon
gathered last night at the Mayflower Hotel to celebrate the 37th
president’s legacy on what would have been his 100th birthday.  “He would be knocking heads together. He wouldn’t
pussyfoot around,” said Fred Malek, the founder and chairman of
Thayer Lodging Group Inc., about how Nixon would have handled
the fiscal-cliff negotiations.  Malek was the vice chairman of the evening, which was
hosted by the  Richard Nixon Foundation , which has raised $4.5
million for the Nixon Centennial Legacy Campaign, helping to
support the Nixon Library in Yorba Linda,  California .  Photos, videos and campaign buttons fed the spirit of
nostalgia for what author and former Nixon aide Pat Buchanan
called “the age of Nixon.”  Among the guests were Henry Kissinger and former Republican
senators Fred Thompson and Elizabeth Dole. A birthday cake in
the shape of the house where Nixon was born was served after the
three-course dinner.  Dole, in bright yellow, attended without her husband,
former Majority Leader Bob Dole, and said that she’s always been
grateful to Nixon for appointing her to the Federal Trade
Commission at a time when professional women were especially
rare in government.  Congressman Leonard Lance, New Jersey Republican, recalled
his memories of Nixon’s 1968 and 1972 presidential campaigns.
Lance’s father presided over the Electoral College in New
Jersey, which voted for Nixon.  Kissinger held court as photographers and well-wishers
huddled around him.  Representing Nixon’s family were his brother, Edward, and
daughters Tricia Nixon Cox and Julie Nixon Eisenhower.  ‘Greatest President’  “He was the greatest president of the 20th century,” said
actor and former Nixon speechwriter Ben Stein, ticking off his
boss’s foreign policy strides in  China  and  Russia .  Nixon’s Secretary of Commerce Frederick Dent said the
president has never received credit for his accomplishments,
because “it’s all about Watergate.”  Stein said that he’s often asked in Hollywood why he
defends Nixon: “I’ll never turn my back on a peacemaker.”  Sporting Antiques  This weekend the  Washington Winter Show , also known as the
Washington Antiques Show, will celebrate “the thrill of the
chase” with antiques from the sporting life. Expect to see
equine statues and Hermes luxuries.  The event will run through Jan. 13 at American University’s
Katzen Arts Center. Proceeds will benefit a number of charities.
Penny Chenery, owner of Secretariat, is the honorary chairwoman,
and PNC Bank is the presenting sponsor.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology and
 Jason Harper  on supercars.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 