-- Noble to Lift Aspire Stake to Increase Mongolia Coal Shipments
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-01-10T03:16:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/noble-to-lift-aspire-stake-to-increase-mongolia-coal-shipments.html
Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , Asia’s biggest
listed commodity supplier, agreed to boost its stake in  Aspire
Mining Ltd. (AKM)  and to help fund the explorer’s railway in northern
Mongolia as seeks to expand coal shipments from the nation.  The Hong Kong-based trader will pay A$2.8 million ($2.9
million), or 8 cents a share, to increase its holding to 15
percent from 10 percent, Perth-based Aspire said today in a
statement. Noble will also pay 10 percent of pre-development
costs for a railway that will link Aspire’s coal mine to the
existing Trans-Mongolian rail line, Aspire said.  Noble is expanding its presence in Mongolia with
investments in Aspire and an alliance with  Xanadu Mines Ltd. (XAM) ,
also developing coal mines in the nation. The commodity supplier
last month bought a stake in a company that has a permit to
build a coal export terminal on the far eastern coast of  Russia ,
which borders Mongolia.  “Mongolian coking coal is largely being sold to Chinese
steel producers,” Aspire said. “It is a key part of Mongolian
development policy to establish access to seaborne markets for
Mongolian coal, to provide pricing tension with Chinese
customers and establish seaborne price benchmarks for Mongolian
coking coal.”  Aspire surged  as much as 95 percent, the most in four
years, before trading 58 percent higher at 9.3 Australian cents
as of 1:08 p.m. in Sydney. Noble was unchanged at S$1.24 in
Singapore trading.  The railway, to be overseen by Aspire’s subsidiary Northern
Railways LLC, will cost $1.2 billion. Noble has the option to
take a 10 percent stake in Northern Railways should a concession
be granted by the government and help attract funding, Aspire
said today. The accord also includes marketing rights for Noble
for coal produced from Aspire’s Ovoot mine, it said.  Ovoot, scheduled to produce steelmaking coal in 2016, has
the second-largest coking coal reserve in Mongolia after Tavan
Tolgoi, Aspire said in a November presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  