-- Norway Inflation Slows as Krone Strength Weighs on Import Prices
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2013-01-10T09:09:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/norway-inflation-slows-as-krone-strength-weighs-on-import-prices.html
Norwegian underlying inflation
slowed in December as the strength of the krone lowered import
costs, making it harder for the central bank to proceed with its
plans to raise interest rates this year.  Annual  underlying inflation , which adjusts for taxes, fees
and energy prices, slowed to 1.1 percent from 1.3 percent in
November, Oslo-based  Statistics Norway  said today. That missed
the 1.3 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 12
economists. Underlying consumer prices fell 0.1 percent from
November.  Norges Bank had forecast underlying inflation of 1.33
percent in December. The bank kept its benchmark rate at 1.5
percent last month and reiterated plans to tighten policy in
2013. The bank has cut rates by 0.75 percentage point since
December 2011 in part to cap gains in the krone and ease
pressure on exporters.  The krone, which has emerged as a haven from  Europe ’s debt
crisis, has risen to a record high on an import-weighted basis.  Trade Minister Trond Giske said in an interview yesterday
that he was worried about the currency’s strength as it is
hurting exporters, who already face falling demand from debt-
ridden Europe. The government’s fiscal policy must be
sufficiently tight to allow the central bank to keep rates low
and avoid further krone gains, Giske said.  The currency strengthened 7.4 percent against the dollar in
2012 and 5.5 percent against the euro.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will expand 3 percent this year, according to central
bank forecasts. This compared with an economic contraction of
0.3 percent in the 17-nation region, according to European
Central Bank forecasts.  Norway headline inflation was 1.4 percent in the year and
0.3 percent in the month.  Policy makers will meet on March 14 to decide on  interest
rates .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  