-- Obama Not Yet Given Post-2014 Afghanistan Troops Plan
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2013-01-10T22:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/obama-not-yet-given-post-2014-afghanistan-troops-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  hasn’t been
presented with recommendations on the number of U.S. troops to
keep in Afghanistan after 2014, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
said today.  While assessments have been provided to the White House,
“we have, as of this moment, not presented any of the options
to the president, nor has the president made a decision,”
Panetta told reporters at the Pentagon.  Panetta made the remarks after meeting privately today with
Afghan President Hamid Karzai, who is in Washington this week
for talks that will include future troop levels, U.S. aid and a
“status of forces agreement” that would give any American
soldiers remaining in the country immunity from local
prosecution.  Before his meeting with Karzai this morning, Panetta said
in welcoming remarks that the U.S. is “fully committed” to
helping the people of  Afghanistan  secure and govern their own
country, and he said the two nations have a strong bond.  “I can assure you, Mr. Secretary, that Afghanistan will,
with the help that you provide, be able to provide security to
its people and to protect its borders so Afghanistan would not
ever again be threatened by terrorists from across our
borders,” Karzai responded.  While Obama has pledged to withdraw most U.S. forces from
Afghanistan by the end of 2014, Pentagon officials have talked
of keeping a residual force for training and anti-terrorist
operations. White House officials earlier this week said the
possibilities include leaving no U.S. troops after the end of
next year.  Seeking Immunity  As the U.S. and Afghanistan work to negotiate a post-2014
agreement, the U.S. is insisting that any troops remaining be
given immunity from local prosecution. Failure to reach such an
accord led to the removal of U.S. troops from  Iraq  at the end of
2011.  Karzai is seeking assurances of continued aid and weaponry
from the U.S. and allies as well as guarantees that they will
turn over to Afghanistan all prisoners taken in the country.  White House Deputy National Security Adviser Ben Rhodes
said Jan. 8 that it’s possible Obama will decide to leave no
troops in Afghanistan after 2014.  “I’d say that would be an option we would consider,”
Rhodes told reporters on a conference call when asked if the
Obama administration is considering withdrawing all troops.  Obama “does not view these negotiations as having the goal
of keeping U.S. troops in Afghanistan,” he said.  Clinton Talks  Karzai met late yesterday at the Capitol with a small group
of U.S. senators, including Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell.  Senator Bob Casey, a Pennsylvania Democrat who participated
in the meeting, said Karzai didn’t say how many U.S. troops he
thought should remain.  “He indicated he didn’t have a specific number,” said
Casey, who said that Karzai was “relaxed and upbeat” at the
meeting.  Karzai didn’t indicate he has any plans to attempt to stay
in power after his current term ends in 2014, Casey said in an
interview.  “He gave every indication to us that he’s not going to try
to hang onto power,” Casey said.  After today’s visit with Panetta at the Pentagon, Karzai
went to the State Department to meet with Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton, followed by a working dinner there with Panetta
and National Security Adviser Tom Donilon.  “Here at the State Department, we think a full range of
issues are going to be discussed,” State Department spokeswoman
Victoria Nuland said before the talks. “Obviously, aspects of
the security transition, the elections in 2014 and preparing for
them, the economic transition, regional integration, support for
the Afghan reconciliation efforts, those will all be central
themes in the discussions this evening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in  Washington  at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  