-- Mohawk Chief Lorberbaum Emerges as Billionaire With Tiles
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2013-01-10T15:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/mohawk-chief-lorberbaum-emerges-as-billionaire-with-tiles.html
Jeffrey Lorberbaum, the chief
executive officer of  Mohawk Industries Inc. (MHK) , the world’s largest
maker of flooring products, is obsessed with details.  Strolling through one of his Calhoun, Georgia-based
company’s five manufacturing facilities, the 58-year-old is
quick to point out why a tile or flooring surface shouldn’t be
in Mohawk’s product line, or how its operations could be more
efficient. When trade magazines release surveys of how flooring
companies are viewed by buyers, he has had executives call to
find out specifics of the publication’s methodology.  “You won’t find many people who have anything nice to say
about Jeffrey Lorberbaum,” said  Bill Graves , who headed East
Coast and Midwest U.S. and Canada sales for Mohawk until 2010.
“He’s not a ‘rah-rah’ leader that connects with his
lieutenants. That’s not his deal.”  Deals have helped transform what was his parents’ bathmat
operation into a $5.7 billion housing products empire that
includes wood, carpet and tile flooring operations, roofing and
insulation businesses, and a do-it-yourself furniture line.  In December, the company made a $1.5 billion bid for
ceramic tile-maker Marazzi Group SpA, based in Modena, Italy, a
move that could extend the company’s market share in the U.S. to
23 percent, compared to 21 percent held by  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s  Shaw Industries  Group. The Marazzi purchase would also
mark the third billion-dollar acquisition Lorberbaum has
orchestrated.  New Billionaire  Mohawk shares have rallied 12 percent on news of the
merger, and have surged 77 percent since Lorberbaum took the
reins of the company in 2001, closing at a 52-week record $94.53
yesterday in  New York  and making Lorberbaum a billionaire.  The run-up comes as the flooring industry is starting to
recover from the housing crash that curtailed both new home
construction and home renovations -- two sectors that accounted
for 69 percent of the $18 billion U.S. flooring market in 2011,
according to Floor Covering Weekly, a Uniondale, New York-based
industry trade publication. In 2002, U.S. flooring was a $20
billion market.  Lorberbaum holds 9.6 million shares of Mohawk, or 14
percent of the company, valued at about $900 million. He owns
the shares directly, through a trust and two entities he
controls, Aladdin Partners and Dalton Partners, as well as
through a one-third interest in another partnership, Helm
Management.  Acquisition Minded  He also has collected almost $200 million from stock sales
and compensation since 1994, according to filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on an analysis of his
insider transactions, taxes and market performance, Lorberbaum
probably has almost $200 million in cash and other investable
assets, giving him a net worth of $1.1 billion, according to the
 Bloomberg Billionaires Index . He has never appeared on any
international wealth ranking.  Lorberbaum and Frank Boykin, the company’s chief financial
officer and media contact, did not return calls seeking comment.  The billionaire has made growth by acquisition a central
part of the company’s strategy. In 2002, he made Mohawk the
world’s largest tile-maker by buying Dal-Tile, based in  Dallas ,
 Texas , for $1.8 billion. Three years later, he turned Mohawk
into a force in the wood-floor market by paying $2.6 billion for
Unilin, a Wielsbeke, Belgium-based maker of engineered wood and
MDF board, a composite used in do-it-yourself furniture.  “Prior to those, the industry hadn’t seen billion-dollar
acquisitions and he did two back-to-back,” said Kemp Parr,
Publisher of Floor Focus Magazine, in a phone call from his
Chattanooga, Tennessee office.  China, Australia  Between the billion-dollar acquisitions, Lorberbaum made
smaller purchases, including Lees Carpet, which was part of a
2003 deal with billionaire  Wilbur Ross  to split Greensboro,
North Carolina-based Burlington Industries. In 2007, Mohawk
added hardwood floor plants from Columbia Forest Products, also
based in Greensboro. Last October, it paid $150 million for
Pergo AB, a laminate floor manufacturer in Trelleborg,  Sweden .  “His growth has come through diversification,” said Parr.
“Mohawk in 1998 was basically a U.S. carpet company second to
Shaw Industries. Lorberbaum is high-energy, hands-on, passionate
about the business and has a lot of good advisers.”  International markets should prove to be a growth area for
a company that generated 82 percent of its sales in North
American in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In
2010, Mohawk bought a 35 percent minority stake in Foshan
Xinghui Ceramics Co. Ltd., a ceramic tile-maker in Foshan,
 China , where the tile flooring market has been growing at an 8.8
percent annual rate the past five years, according to a Mohawk
presentation to investors. It also has operations in  Mexico ,
 Russia  and  Australia , mostly established through other
acquisitions.  Family Business  Marazzi gives the company a strong base in  Italy  and  Spain ,
where Mohawk had been a minor player, Santiago Montero,
Publisher and Editor in Chief of Floor Covering Weekly, said.  “There is no real flooring market in the world that is on
fire with growth,” he said. “They want to be in all the major
flooring markets just because you have to be large in order to
be profitable.”  Lorberbaum grew up in the carpet business, according to an
interview he gave author Jason Jennings in his 2007 book, “Hit
the Ground Running.” In 1957, Lorberbaum’s father, Alan, took
$10,000 in savings from working at a relative’s textile company
in  Georgia  to start Aladdin Mills, which made bathmats and rugs
from extruded plastics. Lorberbaum, along with siblings Suzanne
and Mark, grew up working on the factory floor during the
summer.  ‘Owner Training’  “The company was the family, and the family was the
company,” Lorberbaum is quoted as saying in Jennings’ book.
“Every cent went back into the company to make it bigger,
better, faster. Our only goal was to achieve as much growth as
we could.”  After a break to earn his finance degree at the University
of Denver in 1976, Lorberbaum returned to the family business,
where his father told him he was OIT -- owner in training -- and
performed various jobs throughout the company. Four years later,
Lorberbaum spearheaded an effort for Aladdin to be one of the
first in the industry to operate its own extruding machine,
allowing it greater control over the cost and supply of its
plastic feedstock.  Today, Mohawk uses about 20 percent of the recycled plastic
in the U.S. as a raw material rather than buying solely from
chemical companies.  ‘Soft Spot’  In 1994, after opting against an initial public offering,
the family sold Aladdin to Mohawk for $387 million in stock. The
deal made the Lorberbaums Mohawk’s largest stockholder, with 42
percent of the shares. Lorberbaum was given the responsibility
by then-CEO David L. Kolb with integrating Aladdin -- and later
another half-dozen companies -- into Mohawk. He developed a
reputation for a quick mind, thorough preparation and a
demanding focus on execution.  Former Mohawk executive Graves said Lorberbaum has been
generous in supporting a current executive at Mohawk who has
terminal cancer, allowing the employee to continue working in
the position full time.  “As tough as Lorberbaum is, he has a soft spot,” Graves
said. “He really impressed me with the character he showed in
that situation.”  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in New York. The valuations are
listed in U.S. dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  