-- Holiday Sales Drop Seen for Best Buy May Hurt Schulze Buyout Bid
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-01-10T15:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/holiday-sales-drop-seen-for-best-buy-may-hurt-schulze-buyout-bid.html
Few investors have more riding on
 Best Buy Co.’s (BBY)  holiday sales than founder Richard Schulze. If
they perform poorly his efforts to take the world’s largest
consumer-electronics retailer private will become harder.  He may be disappointed tomorrow, when Best Buy reports
same-stores sales from Nov. 4 through Jan. 5. Mike Baker, a
Deutsche Bank AG analyst, and Scott Tilghman of B. Riley & Co.
expect a 2 percent drop in sales at stores open at least 14
months. Results worse than that may imperil Schulze’s takeover
bid, said Baker.  “If it’s a really weak holiday sales report, that may make
it more difficult for Dick Schulze to line up investors,” he
said in a telephone interview. Baker, who is based in  Boston ,
recommends holding the shares.  Schulze, a former chairman, proposed offering $24 to $26 a
share for Best Buy in August and later that month reached an
agreement that let him conduct due diligence and present a fully
financed offer within 60 days. Best Buy last month gave Schulze
more time to study the company and arrange financing to take it
private. He can make an offer between Feb. 1 and Feb. 28,
allowing him to include full-year results in his due diligence,
the retailer said in a statement Dec. 14. The board then has 30
days to review and decide on an offer.  Schulze has been working with three private-equity firms,
including Cerberus Capital Management LP, on a takeover of the
electronics chain he founded more than four decades ago, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Cash Flow  Since taking charge in September, Chief Executive Officer
Hubert Joly has been trying to reverse same-store sales declines
in 9 of the past 10 quarters. Free online shipping and Web price
matching during the  holiday shopping season  hurt profitability
while full-year  cash flow  may trail Best Buy’s projections,
 Michael Pachter ,a Wedbush Securities analys said.  Los Angeles-based Pachter rates Best Buy shares as
underperform, the equivalent of a sell recommendation.  “No one is going to make a bid until they see cash flow,”
he said in a telephone interview.  Best Buy, which is scheduled to report fiscal fourth-
quarter results on Feb. 28, declined to comment ahead of
announcing its holiday sales, Amy von Walter, a company
spokeswoman, said in a telephone interview. David Reno, a
spokesman for Schulze, declined to comment.  Best Buy  rose  2.6 percent to $11.89 at 9:51 a.m. in  New
York . The shares dropped four of the past five years, including
a decline of 49 percent in 2012.  Pachter compared Schulze’s odds to the University of  Notre
Dame  beating the  University of Alabama  at football.  On Jan. 7,  Alabama  routed Notre Dame 42-14 in the national
championship game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  