-- London Cop Guilty in News Corp. Tabloid Bribery Trial
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-01-10T17:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/london-cop-found-guilty-of-misconduct-in-news-corp-bribery-case.html
A  London  police detective was found
guilty of misconduct in public office for trying to sell
information about an early phone-hacking probe to News Corp.’s
News of the World tabloid in 2010.  April Casburn, 53, was the first suspect to go on trial
since police began investigating corrupt payments by the News of
the World and News Corp.’s other U.K. tabloid, the Sun. The
verdict was handed down by a jury in London today.  Casburn “sought to leak details of a case to the very
newspaper under investigation,” Greg McGill, a senior lawyer
with the  Crown Prosecution Service , said in a statement. “This
is a very serious offense and the jury has today agreed” the
police officer’s actions were criminal.  Casburn, a detective chief inspector with the Metropolitan
Police Service, was one of dozens of people arrested in the
bribery investigation, including Sun journalists, prison
workers, members of the military and Rebekah Brooks, the former
chief executive officer of  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s U.K. unit.  Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of News Corp., closed the News
of the World in July 2011 to help quell public anger over the
phone-hacking scandal. The affairs have cost the New York-based
company at least $315 million in civil settlements with victims,
legal fees and other costs.  Casburn’s case involves “a substantial breach of trust,”
Judge Adrian Fulford said after the 12-person jury issued the
verdict. He delayed sentencing for about three weeks, until he
receives additional information from a social worker about
Casburn’s three-year-old adopted child.  Newspaper E-Mail  Casburn, who is free on bail, ignored reporters as she left
Southwark Crown Court alone near London’s Tower Bridge.  The bribery probe was triggered by evidence of corrupt
payments found through searches of computers during the phone-
hacking investigation. In Casburn’s case, police uncovered an
internal News of the World e-mail describing an unsolicited
phone call she made to the tabloid on Sept. 11, 2010, offering
to sell information about a phone-hacking case.  Casburn, who oversaw a team of officers investigating
terror financing, said she made the call because she was angry
counter-terrorism resources were being redirected to probe
hacking allegations. She said she didn’t ask for money and that
the person who took the call misunderstood. The News of the
World didn’t use the information she offered and didn’t pay her.  Prosecutor Mark Bryant-Heron said during the trial that
Casburn’s decision to call the newspaper at the center of the
phone-hacking scandal, instead of a competing publication,
undermined her claim the tip was altruistic.  The most prominent people charged in the bribery probe are
Brooks and Andy Coulson, who edited the News of the World and
later became the chief press officer for Prime Minister David Cameron. No trial date has been set on those charges.  Brooks is accused of paying 100,000 pounds ($161,000) to a
defense ministry employee, while Coulson allegedly swapped cash
for a royal family phone directory. Two other journalists and
the defense employee were also charged in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  