-- Hong Kong’s Triskele to Shut Hedge Funds After Assets Shrank
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2013-01-10T06:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/hong-kong-s-triskele-to-shut-hedge-funds-after-loss-redemptions.html
Triskele Capital Management Ltd. ,
with more than $600 million assets at its peak, decided to close
its two  hedge funds  after investment losses and investor
redemptions, said Chief Investment Officer Tsuyoshi Shiba.  Triskele, based in Hong Kong, recently notified investors
of the decision after assets shrank to about $132 million, Shiba
said. The Triskele China Fund, which invests in equities, lost
about 9 percent last year, Shiba said. It has not been decided
whether the management company will be closed down, he added.  Politics-driven markets have made it harder for fundamental
stock-pickers to make money and investors cut equity holdings in
favor of the fixed-income market, forcing some Asian managers to
shut hedge funds. About 860 hedge funds closed globally last
year, the highest since the 2008 financial crisis, according to
Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  “The  China  fund did not do that good in the past two
years,” Shiba said in a telephone interview. “We had some
negative return last year so some investors lost patience.”  Triskele also decided to close the about $12 million
Triskele CB Fund, even as it generated positive return, because
of its small size, he added.  Annual Loss  Triskele was co-founded by Chief Executive Officer Otto
Chan and Shiba in 2006, according to a May 2011 marketing
document. Chan was the head of Hong Kong and China equity sales
at HSBC Holdings Plc before setting up Triskele. Shiba, born in
the Chinese city of  Shanghai , helped set up what later became
the largest China fund in  Japan  with assets over $1 billion for
Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management Co., according to the document.  Triskele  China fund , which started trading in late May
2007, mainly invests in companies with growth potential in  Hong
Kong , China and  Taiwan , the document showed. It returned 52
percent in 2007, 38 percent in 2009 and had only two annual
losses in its history, including a 9.6 percent decline in 2011,
according to the marketing document and data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The fund lost 10.5 percent in the first 11 months of last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund’s assets
declined 73 percent from the late July 2011 peak of $606 million
to $164 million by November, the Bloomberg data showed.  The fund was hurt by its investments in yuan- and foreign-
currency-denominated shares listed in China in the last two
years, Shiba said. Investors also favored fixed-income
securities over stocks, he added.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) , which groups  yuan  and foreign
currency shares quoted on the city’s exchange, lost 29 percent
in the 23 months to November before a 15 percent rebound in
December after China’s leadership changes.  The Triskele CB Fund, which invests in convertible
securities sold by companies in Asia outside of Japan, returned
4 percent in the first 10 months last year, according to
Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  