-- Hong Kong’s Central Rents to Extend Drop as Banks Cut Costs
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2013-01-10T04:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/hong-kong-s-central-rents-to-extend-decline-as-banks-cut-costs.html
Hong Kong ’s Central district office
rental, the most expensive globally, is set to extend its
biggest decline since the global credit crisis, according to the
world’s two biggest realtors.  Leasing costs in the district where Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
and HSBC Holdings Plc have offices will likely be little changed
in 2013, Rhodri James, executive director for office services at
 CBRE Group Inc., (CBG)  said.  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  sees rents
dropping “slightly” in the first half before picking up in the
second, Ben Dickinson, head of Hong Kong markets, said.  Banks and brokerages, faced with slowing corporate finance
activities, are giving up space in Central for locations in the
city where rents can be two-thirds lower. Global financial
services firms, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Morgan Stanley,
Goldman Sachs and UBS AG, have announced a total of more than
300,000 job cuts worldwide since the start of 2011, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’ll be a fairly slow market in 2013,” CBRE’s James
said in a Dec. 28 interview. “We’re going to keep seeing bad
news in the banking sector and that’s not going away in the
first half. If they continue to cut back and hand back space, we
could be in a similar situation in the second half.”  An index compiled by  Colliers International  that measures
confidence in the office leasing markets among brokers in  Asia 
stood at 57.1 percent in the fourth quarter, compared with 62.9
percent in the first quarter and 55.1 percent in the third
quarter. A higher number indicates a more optimistic outlook.  Falling Rents  The average rent for prime offices in Central dropped 12
percent from a year earlier to about HK$98.80 ($12.75) a square
foot a month at the end of the third quarter, according to
Seattle-based Colliers. That was the biggest drop since 2008.  With financial services companies migrating their back
offices -- and sometimes the entire operations -- away from
Central, almost all other major office districts in Hong Kong
posted gains in rental rates and drops in vacancies last year.  Central’s grade-A vacancy rate rose to 5.5 percent in the
third quarter from 3.5 percent a year earlier, according to
Colliers. Meanwhile, in Island East, Tsim Sha Tsui, and Sheung
Wan, all within a 15-minute subway ride from Central, vacancies
dropped to below 3 percent. In Kowloon East, an industrial and
logistics area that is evolving into a back-office hub for banks,
vacancies dropped to 9.6 percent from 12.9 percent.  “The trend will continue and that won’t just be for next
year,” said Dickinson of Jones Lang LaSalle, the world’s
second-largest commercial real estate brokerage, in a Jan. 8
interview. “We’re increasingly seeing banks looking very
seriously at moving front-office operations to these locations.
Central has such a rental premium against the other sub-
districts and Hong Kong is an easy place to get around.”  Island East  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc
are among banks that have relocated parts of their operations to
Island East, where Hong Kong-listed  Swire Properties Ltd. (1972)  plans
to redevelop some buildings to add to its office portfolio of
10.5 million square feet.  For Central, even with rising vacancy, office occupancy
costs still topped CBRE’s global survey for the second half of
2012, published in December. At an annual cost of $246.30 per
square foot, it was 12 percent higher than the $219.81 of
second-placed  West End  of  London . Tokyo was third at $197.27,
followed by Beijing’s central business district at $184.95.  “There’ll be another round of downward pressure, but rents
are not going to tank,” said CBRE’s James. “There’s still a
bit of vacancy in Central which is proving not easy to lease.”  Lowering Rents  Some Central landlords have over the past year lowered
their asking rents by as much as 30 percent to attract tenants,
 Simon Smith , Hong Kong-based head of research at  Savills Plc (SVS) ,
said in an interview yesterday.  Bank of America is close to agreeing to lease almost
150,000 square feet of prime  office space  in Hong Kong
billionaire  Li Ka-shing ’s Cheung Kong Center in Central, two
people familiar with the transaction said last month. The deal,
brokered by CBRE, is the biggest by space in the district since
at least 2003.  The amount of funds raised in IPOs in Hong Kong in 2012
fell to $7.9 billion, the lowest since 2003, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Mainland Companies  Still, support for the office market this year could come
from the continuing influx of mainland Chinese financial
services companies looking to Hong Kong as a gateway to
international expansion, said Savills’s Smith, who is predicting
rents in the city to rise 10 percent in 2013.  “The international investment banks are less brand-
conscious and more cost-conscious than people think,” he said.
“But these mainland businesses want good quality premises and
at the moment they’re finding it tough to get them.”  Prime office rents in Tsim Sha Tsui, a hub for trading
firms and retail companies with a vacancy rate below 1 percent
at the end of the third quarter, rose 9.3 percent to HK$49 a
square foot per month during the year, while the biggest
increase among all major office district came from Kowloon East,
which gained 11 percent to HK$33 per square foot per month.  New prime office supply set for Hong Kong over the next
nine years won’t be enough to meet half of the forecast demand
for space, according to a study by CBRE published in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  