-- Hong Kong Journalists Call for Withdrawal of Planned Privacy Law
-- B y   N a t a s h a   K h a n
-- 2013-01-10T06:17:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/hong-kong-journalists-call-for-withdrawal-of-planned-privacy-law.html
Journalist groups in Hong Kong
called on the government to withdraw proposed law changes that
would make examining the backgrounds of company directors more
difficult amid concern the changes will stifle press freedom.  “This is unquestionably a retrogressive development in the
free flow of information,” the Hong Kong Journalists
Association said in a  statement  on its website yesterday. “The
main objective of the current public inspection arrangement is
to ensure that the interests of minority shareholders are
protected, that is, the general interests of the public.”  The limitations were put forward by the city’s Financial
Services and the Treasury Bureau and Companies Registry in
November as part of a  consultation document  for new legislation
concerning companies.  The change would keep private the residential addresses and
full identification numbers of a company’s directors from the
first quarter of next year. Individuals would be able to apply
to have personal details blocked on historical filings.  “Company searches are an important tool and source of
information for investigative journalism,” the Foreign
Correspondents’ Club said in a letter to the city’s Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying,  posted on  its website. “The ability
of foreign correspondents and journalists to legally access
information about individuals and their companies is vital to
our role of reporting on issues of public interest.”  The  Hong Kong Association of Banks  said in an e-mailed
response to questions that it “sees benefits in allowing public
access to directors’ residential addresses and identity card
numbers maintained at the Companies Registry.”  The association said it “hopes that the government will
put forward a workable arrangement which will balance these
different considerations.”  Legislative Council  The  Financial Services and the Treasury Bureau  said in an
e-mailed response to questions that it had sought the opinion of
the  Office of the Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data  during
the consultation process.  “Under the proposal, the public and the media can continue
to access the correspondence addresses and half of the digits of
the identification numbers which, together with the name, should
allow them to identify the individual concerned,” it said. The
 Companies Registry  didn’t immediately answer questions.  Bloomberg News last year relied on Hong Kong and Chinese
identity card numbers contained in filings to chart the business
relationships and assets of the families of  China ’s incoming
president, Xi Jinping, ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai and the
descendants of veteran revolutionaries, known as the Eight
Immortals, who ran China after the death of Mao Zedong in 1976.
The  New York  Times newspaper traced assets owned by the family
of outgoing Premier Wen Jiabao, also with the help of Hong Kong
records, according to an October article.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Khan in Hong Kong at 
 nkhan51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  