-- ONGC Rallies on Expectation of Lower Subsidy Outgo: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2013-01-10T06:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ongc-rallies-on-expectation-of-lower-subsidy-outgo-mumbai-mover.html
State-run  Oil and Natural Gas Corp.
Ltd.  rose for a seventh day to the highest in almost 11 months
on expectations the government may increase diesel and cooking
gas prices, reducing the explorer’s subsidy obligations.  ONGC (ONGC)  rose as much as 3.6 percent to 302.85 rupees, the
highest intraday price since Feb. 22, in Mumbai trading, making
it the second-highest gainer on the benchmark Sensex today. The
federal oil ministry has proposed an increase of as much as 4.50
rupees a liter on diesel and 100 rupees ($1.8) for a cylinder of
cooking gas, the Press Trust of India reported yesterday.  Energy, including oil and coal, is underpriced in India and
the country must consider a phased increase in prices to meet
its growth targets, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a
speech on Jan. 7. The government orders ONGC and smaller rival
 Oil India Ltd. (OINL)  to sell crude oil to refiners including  Indian
Oil Corp. (IOCL)  and Bharat Petroleum Corp. at a discount to partly
compensate them for fuel sales below cost.  “There is a great expectation that the government is
determined to do away with subsidies, which could potentially
double ONGC’s selling price for crude oil,” said Deven Choksey,
managing director at K.R. Choksey Shares & Securities Pvt. in
Mumbai. “The consequential problems of subsidies, such as
inflation and ratings downgrades, are weighing on the country’s
growth.”  ONGC’s share of subsidy may increase to $12 billion in the
financial year to March from $10 billion last year, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. India may face a downgrade in the
next 12 months to 24 months as the government is likely to miss
its fiscal deficit target,  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based
head of Asia-Pacific sovereigns at Fitch Ratings, said Jan. 8.  The company reported its  biggest profit decline  in almost
four years after it gave a $63.05 discount on every barrel of
crude oil it sold to Indian state-run refiners in the quarter
ended Sept. 30, according to a Nov. 8 statement. Its selling
price of $46.80 a barrel in the three months was 43 percent
lower than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  