-- TOP Oil Market News: Crude Rises First Time in Three Days
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-01-10T07:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/top-oil-market-news-crude-rises-first-time-in-three-days.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Rises First Time in Three Days on Surge in Chinese Exports  Oil rose in New York for the first time in three days after
 China ’s exports increased more than forecast in December,
signaling growth in the world’s second- largest crude consumer.  China 2012 Oil Imports Rise 6.8%; Fourth-Highest Last Month (1)  China’s crude imports increased at a faster rate last year
than in 2011, while its daily net purchases in December were the
fourth-highest in 2012.  China 2013 Crude Oil Apparent Consumption May Rise 5.3%: Radio  China’s apparent consumption of crude oil may rise 5.3% Y/y
to 502m tons in 2013, China National Radio reports today, citing
the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation.  Shipments of European Naphtha to Asia May Rise 35% in January  European naphtha shipments loading this month for transport
to Asia may rise 35 percent from December, a Bloomberg survey of
traders and shipbrokers showed.  Vitol, MISC Venture VTTI Plan Malaysian Oil Storage Site by 2014  VTTI Asia Pte, a joint venture of Vitol Group and MISC Bhd.,
will begin construction of a second phase in March at its oil
storage terminal at Tanjung Bin in Malaysia, near the port of
Singapore, a company official said.  Goldman Names Quek Chin Thean Asia-Pacific Commods Trading Head  Quek Chin Thean to replace Karl Robijns, who has relocated
to  London  as head of global agriculture and oil trading,
according to an internal memo.  Asia  Fuel Oil  Discount Narrowest in Three Months: Oil Products  Asian fuel oil’s discount to Dubai crude narrowed to the
least in more than three months, signaling reduced losses from
producing the residue fuel. Gasoil’s premium to Dubai crude
stayed at the highest level in two weeks.  PV Oil Said to Offer 350,000 Barrels of Ruby Crude for March  PV Oil Co., Vietnam’s state-owned oil marketer, offered to
sell 350,000 barrels of Ruby crude for loading in March, said
two traders who received the tender documents, asking not to be
identified because they aren’t authorized to speak to the media.  Natural Gas Supplies to Drop More Than Average, Forecasts Show  Natural gas inventories fell by more than average last week
as cold weather increased heating-fuel demand, analyst forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for Jan. 4 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly Petroleum Status Report
from the U.S. Department of Energy:  Gasoline Falls on Report Supply Rose to 10-Month High Last Week  Gasoline fell after the industry- funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said that inventories of the motor fuel jumped to a
10-month high last week.  U.S. Oil Supply: Comparison of Weekly API, DOE Figures (Table)  The following table provides a  comparison between the U.S.
Department of Energy’s crude-oil statistics for the week ended
Jan. 4 and the data from the American Petroleum Institute, an
industry-funded group.  OPEC  Qatar Said to Shut Two Oil Platforms for Repair in First Half  Qatar Petroleum , the state energy company, plans to shut
two offshore oil production platforms in the first half of this
year for maintenance, two people familiar with the work said.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  Bakken Oil on Trains to East Boosts Independence: Energy Markets  Oil moving from the Bakken field in North Dakota to the U.S.
East Coast is rising as the capacity to receive trains increases
to 900,000 barrels a day, cutting the region’s imports of
higher-cost crude to a 29-year low and reducing dependence on
gasoline from Europe.  GS Caltex Said to Shut Yeosu Refinery Crude Unit for Maintenance  GS Caltex Corp., South Korea’s second-biggest refiner,
plans to shut one of four crude processing units at its Yeosu
plant for maintenance this year, said two people with knowledge
of the plan.  Bakken Oil on Trains to East Boosts Independence: Energy Markets  Oil moving from the Bakken field in North Dakota to the U.S.
East Coast is rising as the capacity to receive trains increases
to 900,000 barrels a day, cutting the region’s imports of
higher-cost crude to a 29-year low and reducing dependence on
gasoline from Europe.  Gulf Crude Oils Weaken Ahead of Seaway Expansion’s New Supply  Crude produced in the  Gulf of Mexico  weakened ahead of the
expansion of the Seaway pipeline, which will increase the supply
of competing crudes on the Gulf Coast.  Syncrude Said to Cut January Production by 600,000 Barrels  Syncrude Canada Ltd. cut its January production forecast by
600,000 barrels, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter.  California Gasoline Drops on Regional Supplies at 19-Year High  Spot gasoline in California tumbled against futures after
the Energy Department said inventories of the motor fuel on the
U.S. West Coast rose to a 19-year high.  S-Oil to Shut Onsan Crude Units for Maintenance in April, July  S-Oil Corp., South Korea’s third- largest refiner, plans to
shut two of three crude-processing units at its Onsan plant for
maintenance this year, a company official said.  Chevron El Segundo Refinery Said to Have Upset at Coker Unit (1)  Chevron Corp.’s El Segundo plant, California’s largest
refinery, lost a compressor at the coker unit, a person familiar
with operations there said.  Los Angeles Gasoline Gains to Week-High on Refinery Work, Upsets  Spot gasoline in Los Angeles gained against futures to the
highest level in more than a week after BP Plc, Tesoro Corp.,
Chevron Corp. as Valero Energy Corp. performed repairs on units
at refineries in the state.  Chevron El Segundo Refinery Said to Have Upset at Coker Unit  Chevron Corp.’s El Segundo plant, California’s largest
refinery, lost a compressor at the coker unit, a person familiar
with operations there said.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  BP Said to Buy Fuel Oil From Bharat Petroleum for $25 Discount  BP Plc bought two cargoes of fuel oil for loading in
January from Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-biggest
state refiner, said two traders who asked not to be identified
because the information is confidential.  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline,  jet fuel  or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the  Middle East  to
 Japan  was unchanged at 9.49 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  U.A.E. Trader FAL Oil Suspends Debt Negotiations With Banks (1)  FAL Oil Co., a United Arab Emirates- based energy trader
that’s under U.S. financial restrictions for links to Iran,
suspended debt restructuring talks with lenders on Dec. 10, a
company official said.  Petronas Raises Tapis Oil Factor as Diesel Extends Advance (1)  Petroliam Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state oil company,
raised the price-adjustment factor for its flagship Tapis crude
to the highest level in six months as the profit from making
diesel increased.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  Ex-Barclays Trader Ek Hires Mancebo for European Hedge Fund (1)  Ulf Ek, a former power trader at Barclays Plc and Amaranth
Advisors LLC, has made his first hire at hedge fund Northlander
Commodity Advisors LLC.  Fracking Pushes U.S. Oil Production to Highest in 20 Years (2)  U.S. oil production exceeded 7 million barrels a day for
the first time since March 1993 as improved drilling techniques
boosted exploration across the country and reinforced a shift
toward energy independence.  India Said to Speed Plan to Save $300 Billion Burning Coal Belt  India will consider speeding up relocation of more than
half a million people living atop mines where $300 billion worth
of coal is burning away, said three people familiar with the
plan.  TransCanada to Build $5.1 Billion Pipeline to LNG Terminal (4)  TransCanada Corp., builder of the Keystone XL oil pipeline,
was selected to construct and operate a C$5 billion ($5.1
billion) natural-gas conduit to Petroliam Nasional Bhd’s planned
export terminal in British Columbia.  EU Carbon May Decline to Record as Glut Expands: Energy Markets  European Union emission permits are poised to drop to a
record in the first half as  member states  in the world’s largest
carbon market fail to diminish the biggest- ever glut.  Hall Sets Up Commodities Hedge Fund Five Months After Duet Split  Tony Hall has set up Hall Commodities LLP with former
colleague Arno Pilz five months after the pair left hedge fund
Duet Commodities Fund Ltd.  Kuwaiti $110 Billion Spending Plan May Spur Lending: Arab Credit  Kuwaiti private-sector borrowing, boosted last year by a
jump in consumer loans, may accelerate in 2013 at the fastest
pace since 2009 as the government plans to speed implementation
of a $110 billion investment plan.  Black Sea Hunt for Oil to Fix Chronic Trade Gap:  Turkey  Credit  Turkey is seeking to gain energy independence and shrink a
current-account deficit that investors say is the economy’s key
vulnerability.  Turkey Beating Norway as Biggest Regional Oil Driller: Energy  Turkey is drilling for oil and natural gas with more rigs
than any European country and plans new rules in 2013 to speed
exploration of energy supplies for the fastest-growing major
economy after China.  Indonesian Coal Swaps Drop a Third day; China Contracts Rise  Swaps prices fell for a third day for thermal coal from
 Indonesia , the world’s largest exporter of the fuel, according
to Ginga Petroleum Singapore Pte.  OTHER MARKETS  Asian Stocks Advance on China Trade as Yen Weakens; Crude Gains  Asian stocks rose to a 17-month high after China’s exports
grew more than estimated and investors speculated Japan will
expand stimulus. Commodities advanced, while the yen neared a 2
½-year low against the dollar.  Yen Weakens for Second Day as Abe Urges BOJ on Inflation Target  The yen weakened for a second day and neared a 2 1/2 year-
low against the dollar after Prime Minister Shinzo Abe urged
 Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa to double the central
bank’s inflation goal.  Chavez Cancer Hinders 50% Bolivar Devaluation Call: Currencies  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez ’s failing health is
casting doubts on the timing of a  currency devaluation  that
economists at banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Barclays
Plc. say is inevitable to prevent a recession.  Asian Stocks Rise on China Exports Data; Japanese Carmakers Gain  Asian stocks climbed, with the regional benchmark index
headed for its highest close in 17 months, as China’s exports
data topped economists’ forecasts and Japanese carmakers rallied
on a weaker yen.  Bats Says System Errors Caused Pricing Problems Over 4 Years (2)  Bats Global Markets Inc., the third- largest U.S. stock
exchange operator, said its computers allowed trades that
violated rules intended to ensure all investors get the best
prices for equities over a period of four years.  Shanghai to More Than Double Bonded Warehouses as LME Eyes Port  Shanghai will more than double its so-called bonded
warehouse space this year amid speculation the world’s biggest
harbor will host the first London Metal Exchange-approved
delivery point in China, the biggest user of base metals.  Corn Supply Dropping Most Since 1995 Signals Rally: Commodities  U.S. corn supplies, the world’s biggest, are dropping at
the fastest pace in 17 years as drought damage exceeds
government forecasts and five months of declining prices spur
demand from livestock producers.  Obama Said to Name Jack Lew to Replace Geithner at Treasury (4)  President  Barack Obama  plans to name White House Chief of
Staff Jack Lew tomorrow as his choice for Treasury secretary,
replacing  Timothy F. Geithner , a person familiar with the
process said.  Google’s Schmidt Calls on North Korea to End Internet Censorship  Google Inc. Chairman  Eric Schmidt  called on North Korea to
end its ban on  Internet access  after a visit to the totalitarian
country with former New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson.  SPORTS  Swansea Seizes on Errors to Beat Chelsea in League Cup Semifinal  Swansea beat Chelsea 2-0 to open their English League Cup
soccer semifinal, getting both goals off mistakes by Blues
defender Branislav Ivanovic.  Swansea Defeats Chelsea 2-0 to Open League Cup Soccer Semifinal  Swansea City defeated Chelsea 2-0 to open their two-match
semifinal in English soccer’s League Cup.  Pietersen Signs Full Central Contract With England, Sky Reports  Batsman  Kevin Pietersen  signed a full central contract with
the England and Wales Cricket Board, signaling a return to
normal relations with the ruling body, Sky reported.  ENERGY PRICES  Last    Chg  %Chg   Exch Contract  ----   ----  ----   ---- --------
WTI Crude ($/Bbl)       93.19  +0.09  +0.1  Nymex     Feb.
Brent Crude ($/Bbl)    111.76  -0.18  -0.2    Ice     Feb.
Gasoil ($/Ton)         948.75  +2.25  +0.2    Ice     Feb.
Gasoline (c/Gal)       277.89  -1.55  -0.6  Nymex     Feb.
Natural gas ($/MMBtu)    3.11  -0.11  -3.3  Nymex     Feb.
Dated Brent ($/Bbl)    111.66  -0.44  -0.4    OTC  21 Days
Heating Oil            306.99  +1.14  +0.4  Nymex     Feb.  Other markets:  Last  %Chg  ----- -----
Dollar Index            80.60  +0.3
Gold ($/Oz)          1,655.50  -0.4
MSCI World Index     1,367.15  +0.4  Prices as of 11 p.m. GMT  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  