-- Orbitz Falls as CFO Exit Rekindles Hotel Growth Concerns
-- B y   K a r l   B a k e r
-- 2013-01-10T21:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/orbitz-falls-as-cfo-exit-rekindles-hotel-growth-concerns.html
Orbitz Worldwide Inc. (OWW)  dropped the
most in two months as the resignation of Chief Financial Officer
Mitch Marcus amplified investor concern that the company won't 
be able to expand hotel bookings.  The shares declined 10 percent to $2.98 at the close in  New
York . The stock had gained 42 percent from the time of Marcus’s
appointment in November through Jan. 8, when the Chicago-based
company announced his resignation.  Marcus’s abrupt departure has put a spotlight on the
company’s struggle to expand beyond its roots in low-margin
airline reservations to challenge larger competitors such as
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE)  and  Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  in the more lucrative
business of hotel bookings, Daniel Kurnos, an analyst at
Benchmark Co., said in an interview.  “The move today is probably a delayed reaction to the CFO
resigning,” Kurnos said. “Orbitz has underperformed the other
two. They’re really not even in the same league.”  Priceline, the most valuable online-travel agency,
generates approximately 90 percent of sales from hotels, Kurnos
said. Orbitz got 27 percent of revenue from hotels in 2011,
according to Bloomberg  data .  Orbitz probably increased total sales 1 percent to $774.6
million in 2012, according to the average of analysts’s
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  David Belmont, vice president of financial planning,
replaced Marcus on an interim basis. Marcus left “to pursue
other opportunities,” Orbitz said in the filing.  ‘Moving Quickly’  “The short-lived CFO Mitch Marcus leaves the company with
the same interim CFO they had before he joined,” said Tracy Young, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  “I imagine they’ll
have to start another search.”  Orbitz is confident it will find a “strong permanent
replacement in a relatively short time frame,” Chris Chiames, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Mitch
determined that this was not the right opportunity for him. We
and Mitch agreed that moving quickly to resolve the situation
was best for all parties.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Baker in New York at 
 kbaker30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  