-- Morocco Stalled Tourist Drive Traps Lenders: Mortgages
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2013-01-10T09:40:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/morocco-stalled-tourist-drive-traps-lenders-mortgages.html
Morocco ’s drive to emulate Dubai by
turning itself into a playground for rich Europeans is hurting
lending at home as cash-strapped banks are hit by investments in
holiday resorts that soured in the global financial crisis.  Loans to homebuyers and companies grew at the slowest pace
in a decade last year through November, according to central
bank data. In September, the North African kingdom’s central
bank allowed banks to reduce reserves to increase money in
circulation.  Morocco, like Dubai, was in the midst of a major tourism
expansion when the global financial crisis caused investment to
tumble, saddling developers, banks and investors with soured
real estate debt. Lending for development surged in the two
years before the market stalled in 2009, peaking at 18 billion
dirhams ($2.1 billion) in 2007, said Gabriel Matar, head of
 Middle East  and North Africa hotels at  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL) 
He said much of the debt will mature this year, leading to
property sales.  “Moroccan banks are working out their overexposure to
commercial real estate, mainly tourism-related, which will limit
the amount of their new engagements in 2013,” Matar said by e-
mail. “The Moroccan market isn’t mature enough to recover all
these projects, which are too big to be completed by just
Moroccan players.”  Boom Times  Mortgage growth peaked at 57 percent in the first 11 months
of 2007 and lending to developers jumped almost six-fold in that
period, according to data compiled by the central bank. Like in
Dubai, projects stalled as the  U.S. housing slump  morphed into a
global banking crisis.  The Arab Spring uprisings that toppled North African
regimes in Tunisia, Libya and  Egypt  largely bypassed Morocco,
where economic growth slowed to 2.9 percent last year, from 4.9
in 2011,  International Monetary Fund  data shows. A drought
caused agricultural output to drop by 8.4 percent in the third
quarter. The country’s trade deficit widened to 11.9 percent as
of the end of November, the central bank said.  Mortgage lending slowed partly because cash-poor developers
are struggling to get financing to build, said Zineb Masrour, a
Casablanca-based senior capital manager at  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   ‘Obviously Overexposed’  “Banks are obviously overexposed to the real estate market
and the priority is to complete the projects they’re already
involved in and slow financing to sensitive projects such as
tourism or high grade residential,” Masrour said in a telephone
interview. “These projects were mainly targeting foreigners,
who were strongly investing a few years ago but they’re not here
anymore.”  Work on six mega-resorts, part of a 9 billion-euro ($11.8
billion) development drive, ground to a halt, prompting foreign
investors to exit. Among the largest was Taghazout, which was to
include a hotel and villas under the Raffles brand, a polo club
and a beach club in its first phase, Matar said.  Total private sector lending grew by 2.8 percent in the 11
months through November, the slowest pace since 2002 when the
growth rate was 1 percent, according to central bank data. Loans
for housing rose 6.8 percent in the 11 months through November,
the smallest increase since 2002, according to data compiled by
the central bank. Mortgages overall gained 6 percent, also the
slowest pace in a decade. Morocco on Sept. 25 cut its reserve
ratio by 2 percentage points to 4 percent, citing a “liquidity
shortage.”  ‘Selective Approach’  The banking sector has adopted “a rather selective
approach in the treatment of requests for funding” in real
estate, said Samir Hadjioui, deputy general manager at  Credit
Immobilier et Hotelier , the Moroccan government-run mortgage
bank.  Over the course of the first nine months of 2012,  mortgage
rates  ranged from 5.5 percent to 6.75 percent, while those
offered to developers had rates of 6.21 percent to 7.75 percent,
he said.  The Moroccan government adopted  incentives  to encourage the
building of low-cost subsidized housing in the nation of about
32 million. A state fund known as FOGARIM guarantees mortgages
as long as 25 years for low-income workers and those whose
earnings vary seasonally. The loans can cover as much as 100
percent of the purchase price and apply to homes that don’t
exceed 200,000 dirhams.  “After the euphoria in 2007 and 2008, the Moroccan real
estate sector has seen its players rationalize their approach to
projects to better answer demand,” Hadjioui said.  Selling Pressure  Companies are now facing pressure to pay off or restructure
their debts, either construction loans or financing for land
purchases, as they come due, Matar said.  “In 2013, through indirect pressure by banks, we will see
some projects or land being offered for sale, since we will be
hitting the normal duration of a loan where it would be
negotiated,” Matar said.  Property transactions dropped 12 percent in the third
quarter from a year earlier, according to government data.
Residential sales fell 9.7 percent by volume and prices dropped
0.4 percent, led by a 6.3 decline in villa prices. The central
bank estimated that residential transactions slumped by 10
percent, land deals by 17.3 percent and commercial transactions
by 9.7 percent.  Morocco’s “Vision 2010” tourism strategy sought to more
than double the number of visitor beds to 230,000 in the decade
to 2010. About  half  of that amount was built by 2008, when the
credit crisis starved the market of buyers and investors. The
construction of six resorts, known as Azur Plan, was started in
2001 with the support of King Mohammed VI.  Tourism Goals  Tourist visits climbed to 9.3 million in 2011, close to the
kingdom’s target of 10 million, according to the Ministry of
Tourism’s website. About 83 percent of the visitors were from
 Europe .  The government “highlighted six resorts to be completed,
and less than half” were built, Matar said. “They are now in a
situation where they have to relaunch the vision and make it
2020, or 2025 even, to meet the goal”  Property owners in parts of the kingdom including Marrakech
are “stuck with massive numbers of unsold new builds in large
golf-course projects and other similarly secondary residence
projects,” Tim McTighe, a manager at  broker  Fes Properties a
based in the northern Moroccan city, said by e-mail. That
prompted them to offer villas for sale at 50 percent and 75
percent their 2009 price, he said.  Price Cut  Some homes in the center of Marrakech priced at 20,000
dirhams a square meter two years ago can now be had for 12,000
dirhams a square meter and occasionally for as little as 8,000
dirhams a square meter, he said.  The Taghazout project is now being restarted, along with
the bigger Azur Plan with a new goal to double tourists by 2020,
the government said.  Reviving the tourism property market will be challenging as
Europe, Morocco’s main source of visitors, tries to overcome its
fiscal debt crisis. European banks may have to sell as much as
$4.5 trillion of assets through 2013, which may limit lending
and curb growth in  Greece ,  Italy , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain  by
as much as 4 percentage points, the International Monetary Fund
said in October.  Foreigners Gone  “The customers have changed, especially in Marrakech,”
Younes Sebti, finance director at Moroccan developer  Alliances
Developpement Immobilier SA (ADI) , which is involved with Taghazout,
said in a Dec. 10 interview. “There are fewer foreigners buying
with the euro crisis, but this is cyclical. The fundamentals are
still the same and we remain confident.” He declined to comment
on the progress of Taghazout.  The site of Samanah, designed to include three five-star
hotels and villas ranged around a golf course on the outskirts
of Marrakech, is dotted with foundations and piles of
construction materials. No workers were visible on the site
during a visit in December.  “There is a decline in demand because visibility isn’t
clear for purchasers who don’t know how the sector will be in
two or three years,” Badr Alaoui, a Marrakech-based real estate
broker, said in a phone interview on Dec. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in  Kuwait  at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 