-- Orphanides Says ECB Should Cut Rates to Fight Worst Recession
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-01-10T10:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/orphanides-says-ecb-should-cut-rates-to-fight-worst-recession.html
Former European Central Bank
Governing Council member Athanasios Orphanides said ECB
officials should cut  interest rates  today as the euro area
battles the worst recession in its history.  “The ECB should cut rates,” Orphanides said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We are in the middle of a
policy-induced recession and monetary policy can do more to
contain it, without compromising  price stability .”  ECB policy makers gather in  Frankfurt  today for their first
rate setting meeting of 2013 after discussing a cut in the
benchmark rate at their last meeting in December. Only five out
of 55 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  predict such a
reduction today, with the rest forecasting the benchmark to
remain at a record-low 0.75 percent.  It’s “totally unnecessary for policy makers to stand idly
by when they could help” to ease financing conditions for
households and companies, Orphanides said, adding that record-
high unemployment “is set to get even worse during 2013.”  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields last week fell to the lowest
since March 12, compared with a euro-era record of 7.75 percent
in July. It has tumbled since ECB President  Mario Draghi ’s
pledge to do “whatever it takes” to defend the euro, backed up
by his announcement of an unlimited bond-purchasing program
called Outright Monetary Transactions to buy debt of nations
requesting help.  ‘False Sense of Calm’  “While there has been an improvement in the monetary
conditions and government bond yields, I don’t subscribe to the
optimistic view that the worst is behind us,” Orphanides said.
“None of the fundamental issues have been addressed and the OMT
has introduced a false sense of calm.”  Orphanides, a former U.S. Federal Reserve economist, sat on
the ECB’s Governing Council until last May and is now a senior
lecturer at the  MIT Sloan School of Management  in Cambridge,
 Massachusetts .  Orphanides said he supports Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann’s opposition to the OMT program, as “it has given
governments yet again the option to postpone the commitments
they have given.”  With elections looming in at least five countries this
year, governments are likely to drag their feet even more and
the biggest risk for the euro area is “political inertia that
was facilitated by the OMT,” Orphanides said. Without the bond-
buying promise, “governments would have had to make progress on
implementing their decisions from the June summit by now.”  Transmission Mechanism  Draghi justified the OMT by saying it would help fix the
pass-through of the ECB’s monetary policy to companies and
households and prevent a break-up of the euro area.  “While the transmission mechanism may not be working
perfectly well, it’s not completely broken so any additional
easing will reduce financing conditions,” Orphanides said.
Asked if policy makers should cut the deposit rate, currently at
zero percent, he said that “the most important thing for now is
to cut the main refinancing rate for banks.”  Joblessness in the euro region rose to a record 11.8
percent in November, with at least every second young Spaniard
out of work. The ECB last month predicted the economy of the 17-
nation currency bloc will shrink 0.3 percent this year, down
from a previous estimate of 0.5 percent growth.  According to Orphanides, that amounts to “the worst
recession in the history of the euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  