-- How Bucket Shops Lured the Masses Into the Market
-- B y   D a v i d   H o c h f e l d e r
-- 2013-01-10T15:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/how-bucket-shops-lured-the-masses-into-the-market.html
Today, more than  half  of American
families own stock, up from about 5 percent at the turn of the
20th century. Thanks to the Internet and smartphones, investors
today can place trades instantly from almost anywhere.  But widespread access to stock ownership -- for better and
for worse -- arguably began with another technology, one as
revolutionary in its day as the Internet is today.  In 1863, electrician Edward A. Calahan invented the  stock
ticker , a telegraph receiver capable of printing letters and
numbers onto paper tape. At first, almost all ticker customers
were brokers and bankers. By around 1880, however, the ticker
had spawned a new kind of business, called bucket shops.  Bucket shops were the equivalent of off-track betting
parlors where customers placed wagers on the price movements of
stocks, offering a kind of vicarious participation in the
market. Although bucket shops subscribed to the same ticker
service that bankers and brokers did, no securities changed
hands and the wagers didn’t affect share prices on stock
exchanges. Several hundred of these shops were operating around
the country by the turn of the 20th century.  Reckless Men  Before their rise, the public had typically viewed the
stock market from the sidelines, as fascinated but disinterested
spectators. Financial failure was something that high-profile
speculators suffered, not ordinary people. The bucket shops
changed that. After 1880, stories began appearing in newspapers
about reckless men who had squandered tens of thousands of
dollars, bankrupted themselves, ruined their reputations and
destroyed their families.  Although some contemporaries blamed the amateur investors
for their own failures, others blamed the big exchanges for
fostering a get-rich-quick mentality. In 1903, federal appellate
judges prevented the Chicago Board of Trade from cutting off the
flow of its quotations to bucket shops. The vast majority of
transactions on the Board of Trade were “in all essentials
gambling transactions,” they ruled. “The Board of Trade does not
come with clean hands, nor for a lawful purpose, and for these
reasons its prayer for aid must be denied.”  Those who believed in the social and economic utility of
speculation on the organized exchanges, however, regarded
increasing public participation via bucket shops as the real
problem.  In 1911, a Columbia University professor, Carl Parker,
recommended the “elimination from the field of speculation of
those who are unfitted by nature, financial circumstances, or
training to engage in it.” William C. Van Antwerp of the New
York Stock Exchange claimed that the “great evil of speculation”
lay with the participation “by uninformed people who cannot
afford to lose.” And the Council of Grain Exchanges in 1915
pronounced itself “opposed to the assumption of risks by those
who are not financially or educationally qualified to
speculate.”  In reality, ordinary investors couldn’t participate on the
organized exchanges; no matter how savvy, they were barred by
high margins, large lot sizes and brokers unwilling to take
small trades. The Wall Street Journal estimated that in 1912
only 60,000 people placed trades on the New York Stock Exchange,
and as late as 1916 only 80 out of the exchange’s 600 brokers
accepted trades of less than 100 shares. Compare this to one
bucket-shop chain, Haight & Freese Co., which claimed to have
more than 10,000 accounts in 1902 and which accepted “trades” as
low as a few dollars.  In 1905, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that gave stock
and commodity exchanges ownership of their ticker quotations.
Armed with this decision, the exchanges cut off the bucket shops
from using their price quotes. By 1915, the bucket shop was
dead.      Many of the shops’ former patrons transferred their
business to legitimate brokers who had come to realize that a
vast, untapped customer base existed -- the investor of modest
means. Brokers increasingly welcomed the “odd lot” business that
the stock ticker and the bucket shops had helped create, paving
the way for today’s investor democracy.  ( David Hochfelder  is an assistant professor of history at
the University at Albany, State University of New York, and the
author of “The Telegraph in America, 1832-1920.” The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  To contact the writer of this post: David Hochfelder at
 dhochfelder@albany.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy Lavin
at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  