-- How Hillary Clinton Created a U.S. Business-Promotion Machine
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-01-10T11:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/how-hillary-clinton-created-a-u-s-business-promotion-machine.html
Hillary Clinton  made a pit stop in
the Czech Republic on her 79th and probably last overseas trip
as U.S. secretary of state.  One purpose of the 11-hour visit on Dec. 3, squeezed
between NATO talks on the future of Afghanistan and the Syrian
civil war, was to make a personal appeal to Czech Prime Minister
Petr Necas on behalf of Westinghouse Electric Co., which is
vying for a contract to build a nuclear power plant there,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Jan. 14 issue.  The Pennsylvania-based company controlled by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) 
is locked in a $10 billion bidding war with a state-owned
Russian energy giant, and Clinton pressed the Czech officials
about the wisdom of depending on  Vladimir Putin ’s Russia for
something as essential as electricity.  Westinghouse Chief Executive Officer Danny Roderick, who’s
still awaiting a decision, says Clinton’s intervention made a
big impression on the Czechs: “I was proud that she was in the
trenches with me.”  In four years as the nation’s top diplomat, Clinton, who is
expected to step down this month, has made dozens of similar
sales pitches on behalf of U.S. companies.  In 2009 she toured a  Boeing Co. (BA)  plant in Moscow and met
with Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  to persuade state-owned
Russian Technologies to buy 50 737s made by Chicago-based Boeing
instead of jets made by Airbus. That $3.7 billion deal was one
of several large contracts Clinton helped clinch for Boeing.  Japan Jets  In December 2011,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , based in Bethesda,
Maryland, announced a $7.2 billion deal to upgrade Japan’s aging
fighter jet fleet, beating out Eurofighter. Clinton advocated
for the contract with her Japanese counterpart at the  United
Nations General Assembly .  In February 2012, Space Systems/Loral, which builds
communications satellites and is based in Palo Alto, California,
won a contract for equipment to create a national broadband
network in Australia. Clinton met with former Foreign Minister
 Kevin Rudd  several times to press for the deal.  Last summer, Clinton’s undersecretary for economic growth,
 Robert Hormats , a former Goldman Sachs vice chairman, took
executives from  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , and Dow Chemical
Co. to Myanmar to network with government officials, the first
such meeting since sanctions against the country were lifted in
2012.  More than her predecessors, Clinton has argued that
commercial diplomacy and the promotion of trade, long the
neglected stepchildren of the foreign policy establishment, are
central to U.S. strategic interests.  Durable Achievement  In a hectic four years punctuated by one international
crisis after another -- the Arab Spring, Iran’s nuclear schemes,
the killing of the U.S. ambassador to Libya -- her work as a
spokeswoman for American business is a less visible part of her
legacy. Yet it may be the most durable.  “Those countries that were customers are now
competitors,” says Roderick. “Dynamics have changed in the
international marketplace that have brought us into needing the
government in more areas.”  There’s no doubt Clinton has had success using her personal
clout to help a handful of companies close a handful of deals.
The question now is whether she’s attained her more ambitious
goal: reorienting the priorities of the State Department toward
business in a way that will allow her successors to continue
exerting Hillary-style influence long after she has left the
building.  Merkel’s Delegation  When Clinton took office, she saw heads of state routinely
going to bat for corporations based in their countries. On one
recent trip to China, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  brought
along a delegation of almost two dozen German executives,
including the chiefs of  Siemens AG (SIE)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  The U.S.
government has traditionally left that kind of advocacy to the
 Department of Commerce , a third-tier agency without much pull.
(It’s been without a permanent leader since June.)  “One of the things I heard when I was a senator, and I
heard it in the beginning of my tenure as secretary, was that
American companies had just stopped competing for deals because
they thought the deck was stacked against them,” says Clinton,
sitting on the couch in her spacious seventh-floor office, which
overlooks the Lincoln Memorial.  In two interviews -- in Cambodia in July and  Washington  in
August -- she talked about her efforts to expand the brief of
the State Department to emphasize economic statecraft.  “If you can’t compete fairly, honestly, effectively, no
government should intervene,” she says. “Now, some governments
do. They prop up failing industries. They give a lot of support
to individual businesses that should not be given that kind of
government imprimatur.  Being Hillary  ‘‘All I’m asking for is that level playing field,’’ Clinton
says. ‘‘I’m asking that no country interfere in the marketplace
or in the commercial relationship in a way that disadvantages an
American company and American workers.’’  Hillary Clinton is very aware of the advantages of being
Hillary Clinton, and didn’t seek permission when she not-so-
subtly encroached on the Commerce Department’s turf to install
herself as the government’s highest-ranking business lobbyist.
On her scores of overseas trips -- at 956,733 miles and 401 days
on the road, she is the most-traveled secretary of state --she’s
made pitching U.S. companies part of her routine.  Clinton has directed a lot of her attention to opening new
markets for the U.S. in the developing world, where China is
establishing a significant presence. Chinese companies have
poured capital into poor regions of Africa where foreign aid
from Washington once gave the U.S. leverage. In resource-rich
countries such as Turkmenistan and Afghanistan, U.S. companies
have recently lost major contracts to state-subsidized Chinese
outfits.  China’s Economy  In the global economic order that emerged after World War
II, the U.S. and its allies took American dominance for granted.
They ‘‘did not envision China as the second-biggest economy in
the world,” Clinton says. She doesn’t think there’s anything
wrong with China’s desire to extend its reach. “I don’t hold
that against them,” she says. “I just hold it against us if
we’re not out there pushing back.”  She’s pressed the case for U.S. business in Cambodia,
Singapore, Vietnam, Indonesia, and other countries in China’s
shadow. She’s also taken a leading part in drafting the Trans-
Pacific Partnership, a free trade pact that would give U.S.
companies a leg up on their Chinese competitors.  ‘Titanic 3D’  The State Department even has had limited success in prying
open Chinese markets to U.S. companies. In 2011, after extensive
haggling with U.S. Ambassador to China  Gary Locke , the Chinese
government let “Titanic 3D” and other Hollywood movies be
shown in Beijing theaters. And that year, after talks with
Clinton, the Chinese relaxed so-called indigenous innovation
rules that kept U.S. companies from competing for government
technology contracts there.  “Not that they would ever admit that the Americans -- that
the secretary -- said this, and therefore” they changed, says
Clinton, who’s been careful not to brag too loudly about these
deals. “A lot of this you cannot claim, because then you kind
of force the people on the other side to lose face.”  For U.S. companies overseas, a personal appeal from Clinton
opens doors and unravels red tape. “We’re working in countries
where the government plays a significant role in the local
marketplace, so the counterparties in our deals expect, even
require, that we demonstrate backing from our government,” says
Gabriel Schulze, CEO of Schulze Global Investments Ltd., a
private-equity firm.  Application Required  Companies hoping to win such backing apply for help through
the Commerce Department’s Advocacy Center, a process that can
take from days to months to complete.  General Electric Co. (GE) ,
Lockheed, Boeing and other large companies have full-time staffs
to manage it.  Among other things, the companies must show the contract
will benefit U.S. workers. And federal rules prohibit the
government from helping a U.S. company if doing so could give it
an advantage over an American competitor. If two or more U.S.
firms are competing for an overseas contract, they can expect
little backing from Washington.  If the application is approved, U.S. embassy officials
overseas lobby foreign governments. A lucky few of these
applications find their way to Clinton’s desk.  Surprising CEOs  As she prepares for an overseas trip, ambassadors in the
region flag high-profile contracts U.S. companies are trying to
win. Neither the Commerce nor State Department will say how she
decides which ones to bring up in her talks with dignitaries,
though they tend to be big deals on behalf of big companies.
Executives often find out only after the fact that Clinton made
their case with a head of state. Westinghouse CEO Roderick
learned of her involvement when a Google News alert popped up on
his iPhone.  Although Clinton’s corporate cheerleading has won praise
from business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
“there’s been a certain amount of resistance” within the
Commerce Department, says Edward Alden, a trade specialist at
the  Council on Foreign Relations .  Jake Sullivan, Clinton’s director of policy planning, says
he hasn’t heard any complaints from CEOs. “None of these
business leaders are saying, ‘Wait! You’re not the Commerce
Secretary. What are you doing here?’” (Clinton and Commerce
officials say there is no tension between the agencies.)  Ambassador-as-CEO Memo  To ensure the State Department keeps its business focus,
Clinton has tried to change the way the 69,000-person global
bureaucracy operates. In one directive, which she calls the
“Ambassador-as-CEO” memo, she ordered embassies to make it a
priority to help U.S. businesses win contracts. Science officers
now extol American clean-technology companies. Military affairs
officers promote U.S. fighter planes.  Clinton has also increased the profile and prestige of the
State Department’s economic affairs department. She created a
chief economist’s office headed by Heidi Crebo-Rediker, a former
Lehman Brothers banker, and ordered promotions for embassy
economic officers who act as State’s liaisons to business -- a
once-lowly assignment.  “We’ve looked at every aspect of our operations,” says
Clinton. “Suppose you were in an economic track in the Foreign
Service. What were your chances of advancing up the ladder? Not
very good.”  None of this tinkering will amount to much unless  John Kerry , Clinton’s likely successor, shares her enthusiasm for the
cause. “If the secretary is not personally committed to this,
the things that State can do at the mid-levels of the
bureaucracy are very few,” says Alden.  No one knows this better than Clinton. “I wish it would
move faster,” she says. “But until that day dawns, then we
have to take the world as it is and exercise the leverage we
can.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wes Kosova at 
 wkosova@bloomberg.net  