-- Toyota Wins Dismissal of Prius Brakes Class-Action Claims
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/toyota-wins-dismissal-of-class-action-claims-over-prius-brakes.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  won a judge’s
ruling blocking a class-action lawsuit by owners of Prius and
Lexus models who sued over a 2010 recall to install a software
update that fixed a concern with the cars’ anti-lock braking
system.  U.S. District Judge Cormac Carney in  Santa Ana ,  California ,
yesterday denied a request by four car owners to represent other
owners of a 2010 Prius or a 2010 Lexus HS 250h in California,
saying that three of the four plaintiffs as well as the
substantial majority of the purported class never suffered any
injury from the alleged defect.  The judge also granted Toyota’s request to throw out the
claims of one of the four named plaintiffs, saying that he had
not suffered any injury as the result of his anti-lock braking
system “unreasonably extending the time and distance required
to stop the vehicle” and that he had no problems with his Prius
after the software update.  “After nearly three years of litigating this matter, we
are pleased the court agrees that that no class exists and that
plaintiffs are not entitled to any classwide relief in light of
Toyota’s swift and effective market action to address its
customers’ concerns,”  Celeste Migliore , a spokeswoman for
Torrance, California-based Toyota Motor Sales USA, said in an e-
mailed statement.  Carney said in a separate order that he had “seriously
doubt” that two of the other three named plaintiffs could
prevail on their claims because, he said, they suffered no
injury. The judge said lawyers for the fourth named plaintiff,
who blames a car accident on his Prius’s brakes, should file a
proposed trial date.  Karin Fisch, a lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, didn’t
immediately return a call to her office after regular business
hours yesterday seeking comment on the rulings.  The case is In re Toyota Motor Corp. Hybrid Brake
Marketing, Sales, Practices and Products Liability Litigation,
10-02172, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 