-- Palestinian Rivals Agree to Resume Reconciliation Efforts
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-01-10T08:12:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/palestinian-rivals-agree-to-resume-reconciliation-efforts.html
Palestinian President  Mahmoud Abbas ’s Fatah party and its Islamist rival Hamas agreed to begin
implementing previous accords aimed at reconciliation, kick-
starting a long-stalled effort.  Abbas met yesterday with Egyptian President Mohamed Mursi,
who has used his Islamist credentials and the nation’s
traditional role in Palestinian peace-making to work to bring
the two sides together. Hamas political chief Khaled Mashaal
also traveled to Cairo to meet with Egyptian officials.  The secular Fatah and Hamas, which rules the  Gaza Strip  and
is deemed a terrorist organization by the U.S. and  Israel ,
agreed to “immediately begin” applying the mechanism to
implement the accords,  Egypt ’s state-run Middle East News Agency
reported late yesterday, without providing details. A meeting
will be held in the first week of February to set a time-line
for implementation, the Cairo-based agency said, citing a
statement by the two factions.  The U.S.-backed Fatah and Hamas have been at odds since
2007, when the Islamist group ousted Abbas’s forces from Gaza a
year after winning parliamentary elections. Abbas now rules the
 West Bank . Several attempts at reconciliation have failed.  Mursi’s spokesman, Yasser Ali, was quoted by the state-run
Nile News as saying the two sides had agreed to begin
reconciliation efforts.  Mursi, who was fielded by the Muslim Brotherhood for
Egypt’s presidency last year, earned international applause for
helping broker a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas that ended
eight days of violence in November.  The meeting between the two factions yesterday included
senior Egyptian intelligence officials, MENA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  