-- Party Conflicts in D.C. Outstrip All Other U.S. Conflicts
-- B y   F r a n k   B a s s
-- 2013-01-10T19:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/party-conflicts-in-d-c-outstrip-all-other-u-s-conflicts.html
The perceived levels of conflict
between rich and poor, native and foreign born, or young and old
Americans has fallen during the past year, according to a Pew
Research Center study released today. Republicans and Democrats
are a different matter.  Eighty-one percent of people polled by the Washington-based
research organization say they believe there are strong
conflicts between followers of the two main political parties.
Fifty-eight percent of people identify the gap between rich and
poor Americans as the second-largest conflict in the nation.  The results of twin surveys, taken less than a month after
the presidential campaign, highlight the strong feelings left in
the wake of the contest and the difficulty that a divided
Congress will face in negotiating agreements to reduce the
nation’s $16.4 trillion  debt .  “There are big disputes,” says Rich Morin, senior editor
at the Pew Social and Demographic Trends project. “On this one
issue, Republicans and Democrats, liberals and conservatives,
can all agree.”  The annual report was the first to ask about levels of
perceived conflict between Republicans and Democrats, so
comparisons with earlier periods aren’t available.  Racial Difference  Thirty-nine percent of respondents say there’s a strong
conflict between black and white Americans, compared with 38
percent in 2011.  Almost half of all blacks surveyed say there are very
strong or strong conflicts in at least four of the five
categories surveyed, based on race, birthplace, political
affiliation, income and age. About one-quarter of whites and
one-third of Hispanics see strong levels of conflict among the
different categories.  The 2012 study found that 83 percent of Republicans and 83
percent of Democrats agree there are significant differences
between the two groups. Four of five independents agree. Roughly
half of Americans surveyed say there’s a “very strong”
conflict between the two parties, more than double the amount
cited for any other conflicting groups.  People most likely to view strong conflicts between
Democrats and Republicans tend to be younger, wealthier and more
educated, according to the report.  Eighty-seven percent of supporters of Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  identify strong conflicts
between the two parties, a view shared by 86 percent of people
who say they voted for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election.
Seventy-three percent of people who didn’t vote or who cast
ballots for a third-party candidate identify strong conflicts
between the Democratic and Republican parties.  The Pew study is based on two surveys, one of 2,511 adults
taken from Nov. 28 to Dec. 5 with an error margin of plus or
minus 2.2 percent, and one of 2,048 adults taken from Dec. 6 to
Dec. 19 with an error margin of plus or minus 2.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frank Bass in Washington at 
 fbass1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark McQuillan at 
 mmcquillan@bloomberg.net ;
Flynn McRoberts at 
 fmcroberts1@bloomberg.net  