-- Fund Sells Out of News Corp. With Claim Board Lacks Independence
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-01-10T03:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/pension-sells-news-corp-stake-saying-board-lacks-independence.html
The pension fund for workers in
 Australia ’s pulp and paper industry sold its stake in the
country’s largest publisher  News Corp. (NWSA) , saying the company
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch  needs a more independent board.  First Super , which invests about A$1.7 billion ($1.8
billion) for about 72,000 members in the country’s timber, pulp,
paper, and furniture industries, said it was selling the stake
after the failure of a push at the company’s annual shareholder
meeting for an independent chairman and more independent
directors.  Murdoch is News Corp.’s chairman and chief executive and
has the largest voting stake in the company, with about 40
percent of  Class B shares . That control, combined with a 7
percent voting stake held by  Prince Alwaleed bin Talal , a friend
of the Murdoch family, makes it difficult to enact changes to
the board, an arrangement criticized at News’s annual
shareholder meeting in October.  “The interests of minority shareholders have too often
been compromised,” Michael O’Connor, co-chairman of the fund,
said in the statement. Executives of  News Corp. (NWS)  were paid
“outrageous amounts of money,” he said.  News Corp. shares traded in Sydney rose 1 percent to
A$25.745 as of 2:35 p.m., compared with a 0.3 percent gain in
the S&P/ASX 200 index.  The shares sold by First Super are worth about A$7 million,
Phil Davey, an external spokesman for the fund at Mountain Media
Pty., said by phone. That’s about 0.01 percent of News Corp.’s
A$60 billion market value.  Investors who favor splitting the chairman and chief
executive roles include the  California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the biggest U.S. pension fund. Bloomberg LP,
the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with News Corp. units as
a supplier of financial information.  Stephen Browning, a spokesman for News Corp.’s Australian
publishing unit News Ltd., said he wasn’t able to comment on
group issues.  Julie Henderson  and Nathaniel Brown, New York-
based spokesmen for News Corp., didn’t immediately respond to an
e-mail sent out of office hours requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  