-- Pentagon Authorizes Steps Such as Freezing Civilian Hires
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2013-01-11T05:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/pentagon-authorizing-steps-including-freezing-civilian-hiring.html
The Pentagon has authorized its
senior managers to freeze civilian hiring, curtail travel and
training, dismiss temporary workers, review contracts and cancel
some weapons maintenance because of budget uncertainty.  “We have no idea what the hell’s going to happen,”
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said yesterday at the Pentagon,
in explaining the need to begin cost-cutting measures. “All
told, this uncertainty, if left unresolved by the Congress, will
seriously harm our military readiness.”  Steps outlined in a memo yesterday by Deputy Defense
Secretary Ashton Carter mark the first concrete actions the
Pentagon is taking in response to automatic cuts, known as
sequestration, that would require slicing about $45 billion from
the defense budget by Sept. 30 if Congress and President  Barack Obama  fail to agree on an alternative deficit-reduction plan by
March.  In addition to the threat of across-the-board cuts, the
Defense Department is being squeezed by stopgap funding bills
passed by Congress that froze spending at last year’s levels.  “Either of these problems, in isolation, would present
serious budget execution challenges to the Department,
negatively impacting readiness and resulting in other
undesirable outcomes,” Carter said in the memo.  Defense contractors have cited the risks they face in
planning operations and projecting revenue this year, after
Congress acted Jan. 1 to avert tax increases for most Americans
while postponing for two months the automatic cuts that were to
have begun on Jan. 2.  Boeing Jobs  Boeing Co. (BA)  said yesterday that it would consolidate its
facilities in El Paso,  Texas , this year, eliminating as many as
160 positions. “Anticipated U.S. defense budget cuts likely
will mean less demand” for electronics made there, the Chicago-
based company said in a statement.  The Pentagon’s actions yesterday “will help mitigate some,
but certainly not all, of the negative effects if sequestration
does occur,” Todd Harrison, a military budget analyst at the
nonpartisan Center For Strategic and Budgetary Assessments in
Washington, said in an e-mail.  “The sooner the department starts implementing these
actions -- particularly the hiring freeze for DoD civilians and
delay of maintenance activities -- the more money it will have
available to see it through the remainder of the fiscal year,”
Harrison said.  While authorizing steps to save money, Carter also called
for caution in his memo, saying, “Any actions taken must be
reversible at a later date in the event that Congress acts to
remove the risks.”  He said any cancellations of maintenance for ships,
aircraft and ground vehicles should wait until at least Feb. 15,
a delay that give Congress an additional month to resolve
funding disputes.  Contract Approval  Carter also made it harder to get research and development
and production contracts approved quickly. Any such contracts
valued at more than $500 million will require approval from the
undersecretary of defense for acquisitions -- the top Pentagon
weapons buyer -- before they can be awarded, according to the
memo.  To prepare for the possibility of sequestration in March,
Carter directed managers to begin “intensified planning” to
reduce civilian workforce costs by laying off temporary workers,
imposing hiring freezes, authorizing buyouts, and considering
furloughs for as long as 30 calendar days.  “This planning does not assume these unfortunate events
will occur, only that we must be ready,” Carter said.  Over the next decade, sequestration would force the
Pentagon to cut about $500 billion from future spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  