-- Pfizer May Push $5 Billion Breast Cancer Hope for Ruling
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-01-10T21:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/pfizer-may-push-5-billion-breast-cancer-hope-for-ruling.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, is weighing whether to ask U.S. regulators to
expedite their review of a potential $5 billion-a-year treatment
to slow a type of incurable breast cancer.  The therapy, called PD 0332991, generated excitement among
oncologists in December after data showed the drug stopped
disease progression for more than two years in 165 patients.
That trial was done in the second of three stages of research
regularly required for Food and Drug administration approval.  The FDA has cleared cancer drugs for sale before final
trial results are completed, including New York-based Pfizer’s
Xalkori for lung tumors in 2011 and  Novartis AG (NOVN) ’s Gleevec for
leukemia a decade earlier. While no company decision has been
made to push for early clearance, “There are some precedents
for approval after Phase 2,” said Mikael Dolsten, Pfizer’s head
of worldwide research.  “We’ll see whether there are ways to accelerate
availability of the drug for patients,” Dolsten said in an
interview at the JPMorgan Chase & Co. health conference in San
Francisco. “We’re obviously open to dialogues and advice from
FDA and the European agencies.”  Pfizer climbed 1.1 percent to $26.76 at the close of  New
York  trading. The shares have increased 22 percent in the last
12 months.  The drugmaker hopes to start the final-stage trial by the
end of March, said Geno Germano, who heads the company’s
oncology and specialty care businesses. The medicine is the
first in a new class of agents that works by blocking a protein
critical in the cancer cell cycle, lead researcher Richard Finn
said in December.  Metastatic Disease  The study unveiled in December included women with tumors
fueled by the hormone estrogen, the most common type of breast
cancer. All had metastatic disease, which had spread to other
parts of the body and is no longer considered curable. Almost
230,000 women in the U.S. will be diagnosed with breast cancer
this year, and more than 39,900 will die from it, according to
the  American Cancer Society .  If cleared, Pfizer’s drug may generate as much as $5
billion in yearly sales, wrote Andrew Baum, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., in a Nov. 29 note to investors. That comes as
Pfizer is seeking new treatments to replace the $10 billion in
losses from its cholesterol medicine Lipitor, the world’s best-
selling pill with $13 billion in sales before losing market
exclusivity.  “By the end of this year, we’re going to have the Phase 3
enrolling, we’re going to have two Phase 2s done, and we’re
going to be talking to the agency about getting the product to
patients,” Germano said in an interview at the conference.  Data Available  The positive Phase 2 results, which showed the drug was
safe, may give Pfizer much of the data it could use to justify
seeking an early ruling, even without the larger number of
patients usually tested in a late-stage study, Dolsten said.  “The patients tolerate it very, very well, and that brings
the two components of benefit and risk to the table,” he said.
The agency has been “very thoughtful when it comes to making
those judgments on when they can accelerate access of drugs and
approve them on a smaller dataset than a traditional approval.”  Baum, the Citigroup analyst, said in his note that Pfizer
is already at least two years ahead of its closest competitors,
 Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  and Novartis, with similar cancer drugs in
development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  