-- Philippine November Exports Rise Less Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   M a x   E s t a y o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2013-01-10T01:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/philippine-november-exports-rise-less-than-economists-estimated.html
Philippine exports rose at a slower
pace than economists estimated in November, as a strong peso and
a faltering global recovery hurt demand for apparel and minerals.  Overseas shipments  increased 5.5 percent from a year
earlier to $3.55 billion after gaining 6.1 percent in October,
the  National Statistics Office  said in Manila today. The median
of eight estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 20.1 percent.  A recession in  Europe  and an uneven U.S. economic recovery
are damping demand for Asian goods. The Philippine peso was the
second-biggest gainer last year among 11 widely-traded
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, and Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
Governor Amando Tetangco said on Jan. 4 they are “watchful” of
global developments that may affect domestic growth dynamics.  “Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis and the issue of the
fiscal cliff in the U.S. have created uncertainty in terms of
business sentiment,”  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., said before the report. “So
investment spending will be quite subdued.”  The peso was little changed at 40.765 per dollar as of 9:03
a.m. in Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc.  Exports of apparel slipped 13 percent in November from a
year earlier, while mineral goods declined 22.4 percent, today’s
report showed. Shipments to the U.S. fell 8.6 percent.  Overseas sales made up about 20 percent of Philippine  gross
domestic product  last year. The economy may expand 6 percent to
7 percent this year, central bank Deputy Governor Diwa Guinigundo told state-owned television on Jan. 7. The monetary
authority next meets on policy on Jan. 24.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Max Estayo in  Manila  at 
 mestayo@bloomberg.net ;
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  