-- Philippine Stocks Fall Most in Asia on Valuations, Export Data
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   R i s h a a d   S a l a m a t
-- 2013-01-10T05:15:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/philippine-stocks-fall-most-in-asia-on-valuations-export-data.html
Philippine  stocks  fell from a record
as a rally in the nation’s benchmark stock index drove
valuations to a nine-year high and after data showed exports
missed estimates.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index sank 1 percent as of
12:41 p.m. local time, the most among equity markets in Asia.
The slide halted a seven-day, 5.1 percent gain. The gauge is
 trading  at 17.2 times estimated earnings, the most expensive in
Asia Pacific after Japan.  “After the market’s sharp rally in a short period,
valuation concerns are starting to set in,”  James Lago , head of
research at PCCI Securities Brokers Corp. in  Manila , said by
phone.  The Philippine benchmark index trades at 19.5 times
trailing earnings, the highest level since January 2004,
according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. Philippine
exports rose at a slower pace than economists estimated in
November, data from the  National Statistics Office  showed today.  Philippine stocks may post a “stronger rally” this year,
boosted by earnings growth and the prospects of a credit-rating
upgrade, bourse President Hans Sicat said in a Bloomberg
Television interview today.  “The Philippines is in the midst of an upward re-rating
exercise,” he said. “We are probably just at the start of this
re-rating exercise instead at the end of it. If corporate
earnings perform as they have been performing over the last
year, then you will probably have a stronger rally this year.”  Standard & Poor’s  raised the Philippines’s credit-rating
outlook to positive from stable on Dec. 20.  The Philippine government may raise its key  interest rate 
three times this year to cool inflationary pressures,  Michael Spencer , chief economist for Asia at Deutsche Bank AG, told
reporters in Manila today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  