-- Pimco Favors JGB Linkers as Abe Aims for Inflation
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2013-01-10T04:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/pimco-favors-jgb-linkers-as-abe-aims-for-inflation-japan-credit.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.,
operator of the world’s biggest bond fund, says inflation-linked
bonds are a good play in  Japan ’s debt market as Prime Minister
Shinzo Abe plans wide-ranging stimulus to stoke economic growth.  So-called linkers returned 2.9 percent in the past three
months on an annualized basis, extending gains from their best
year on record, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data. Non-indexed Japanese government bonds of similar
maturities climbed less than 0.1 percent by the same measure,
while U.S. linkers lost 1.2 percent, the data show.  Japan’s Ministry of Finance is considering resuming linker
sales that have been suspended since August 2008 amid deflation.
While Pimco doesn’t believe Abe will be able to stoke a
prolonged increase in consumer prices, the fund thinks linkers
are “cheap” because the market is underestimating the effect
of a planned doubling of the  sales tax .  “The ultimate risk for JGB investment would be a
transition to inflation in the Japanese economy rather than
sovereign credit risk,” Tomoya Masanao, the head of  portfolio
management  for Japan at Pimco said in an interview in  Tokyo  on
Jan. 7. “ Bank of Japan (8301)  policy will become more reflationary and
fiscal policy more expansionary.”  Abe has said ending deflation, which weighs on growth by
dissuading  consumer spending , is the most urgent issue for his
nation along with currency strength that hurts exporters. He’s
aiming to establish a policy accord with the BOJ to set a 2
percent target for annual consumer price gains, twice the
central bank’s current goal. Pimco is taking a “cautious view”
on JGBs, especially long- and super-long debt, Masanao said.  ‘Crucial’ Policy  “BOJ monetary policy is crucial for the 2 percent
inflation target and the currency,” Abe  said  on Jan. 4. “I
think the BOJ has to bear responsibility and act upon it.”  Central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has resisted calls
to increase the inflation goal, which was stated for the first
time in February. He’s set to end a five-year term on April 8,
after two deputies exit in March. Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga said yesterday the next governor should see the
need for bold monetary easing.  As Abe led his  Liberal Democratic Party  to power in
elections last month, inflation expectations in Japan’s bond
market touched the highest on record.  The three-year  breakeven rate , the difference between
yields on government notes and inflation-indexed securities, was
at 0.597 percent today, after touching 0.643 percent on Dec. 25,
the most since Bloomberg started compiling the data in April
2011.  Linker Return  The Ministry of Finance asked the nation’s bond dealers in
June to seek buyers of linkers in preparation for new issuance
which officials said may come as early as the current fiscal
year. The ministry, which met with market participants this
month, expects demand for those bonds, particularly among
foreign institutions, the Nikkei newspaper said on Jan. 7.  Japan’s inflation-linked bonds of all maturities returned
6.3 percent in 2012, the most in the three years they’ve been
measured by Bank of America’s index. A broader index of JGBs
rose 1.8 percent on the year.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, West Nippon Expressway
Co. hired banks for a sale of 15 billion yen ($170 million) of
three-year bonds in early February, according to a statement
from SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., which is managing the offering
with  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)   Japan’s corporate notes have handed investors a 0.15
percent loss in the past month, compared with a 0.67 percent
decline for sovereign debt, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data. Company bonds worldwide returned 0.11 percent
during the period, the data show.  Sovereign Debt  The 10-year JGB rate fell one basis point to 0.815 percent
today, 13 basis points higher than the nine-year low of 0.685
percent reached on Dec. 6. It is still the third lowest globally
after bond yields in  Switzerland  and  Hong Kong . One basis point
is 0.01 percentage point.  Demand fell for a second month at the Jan. 8 sale of 10-
year notes, the first bond auction of 2013. The government’s
sales of 30-year debt today drew bids valued at 3.52 times the
amount on offer, the lowest since June 2012, ministry data
showed.  Abe’s LDP aims for 3 percent nominal economic growth and
gives “the highest priority” to stopping persistent falling
prices and yen appreciation, according to the party’s  website .  Shirakawa Summoned  He escalated pressure on the BOJ yesterday, calling
Shirakawa to a meeting of policy makers and business leaders.
The Council on Economic and Fiscal Policy was scheduled for the
first time in four years after it was abolished by the previous
government.  The yen depreciated 0.3 percent to 88.11 per dollar as of
1:35 p.m. in Tokyo, and touched 88.41 on Jan. 4, the weakest
since July 2010. The currency is still about 15 percent stronger
than its decade average and reached a postwar high of 75.35 in
October 2011.  Abe is under pressure to deliver on his pledges as he faces
an upper house election in July and a doubling of the sales tax
to 10 percent in 2015. The government may announce an extra
budget of about 12 trillion yen for the fiscal year through
March 31, the Yomiuri newspaper and  Kyodo News  said Jan. 7.  Helicopter Money  “Abe’s policy is close to helicopter money, where the
central bank is essentially financing government spending,”
said  Ryutaro Kono , the chief economist at BNP Paribas SA in
Tokyo and whose nomination to the BOJ board was rejected by
parliament in April. “Should yen weakness persist, making
investments overseas more profitable, that could be a trigger
for capital outflow and a JGB crisis.”  Government debt will probably expand to 245 percent of the
Japan’s gross domestic product this year, according to estimates
by the  International Monetary Fund . That’s the highest debt-to-
GDP ratio globally and more than twice that for the U.S.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. this week cautioned Japan about its
growing debt burden and said an increase in inflation bets could
stoke an advance in bond yields. In May, Fitch downgraded Japan
by one step to A+ with a negative outlook. Moody’s Investors
Services has a Aa3 rating on Japan, while  Standard & Poor’s 
ranks it at AA-.  “The high and rising level of debt increases the risk of
some kind of accident,”  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head
of Asia-Pacific sovereigns for Fitch, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview yesterday. In the absence of a “convincing
fiscal consolidation plan,” Fitch would “think about taking
the rating down,” he said.  Fiscal Health  Concerns about Japan’s fiscal health and its prospects for
inflation are manifesting in the rates on longer-term bonds. The
extra yield investors demand to hold 30-year JGBs over 5-year
notes climbed to 1.81 percentage points yesterday, the most
since March 2010.  “We don’t think the current valuation is sufficient for
the  risk premium  that investors should demand to be compensated
for changing policy risks,” said Masanao, who said he favors
five- to seven-year government notes.  “We need to be cautious
as to how much  government spending  will increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  