-- Porsche Faces $1.1 Million McLaren in Supercar Battle
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2013-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/porsche-faces-1-1-million-mclaren-in-supercar-battle.html
A McLaren supercar likely to cost
some $1.1 million. A $845,000 Porsche. And a really nifty Acura.  High-concept, “halo” cars are by nature rare and unusual.
The reflected glow of their specialness can raise the profile of
an entire brand.  Yet 2013 is looking like the beginning of a banner period
for supercars. The bang starts with production of the Porsche
918 Spyder -- the first new supercar from the manufacturer in
nearly a decade.  Then we’ll see the McLaren P1 coupe, the successor to a
legendary highway scorcher built in the 1990s.  Lastly, Acura,  Honda’s (7267)  upscale sister brand, is finally
resurrecting its NSX, a supercar for the everyman.  While all three are spiritual successors of cars we’ve seen
before, both the Porsche and Acura will employ New-Age hybrid
powertrains that use both gasoline and electric motors.  I count myself among the excited, as the original Acura NSX
and the Porsche 918’s predecessor, the Carrera GT, are two
personal favorites. I’d dearly like the chance to drive them
both again.  Carmakers play their cards especially close when it comes
to these exclusive models. Information about engines, top speeds
and release dates are carefully doled out over time, both to
maintain consumer interest and to foil competitors.  Hybrid Spyder  The Porsche 918 Spyder is slated to begin production this
September, with that announced price of $845,000. It will be a
hybrid with a mid-mounted V-8 and two electric motors that
should churn out a combined output of nearly 800 horsepower.  Porsche says the car will be capable of 200 miles per hour,
reaching 60 mph in around three seconds. Yet it can also drive
short distances on battery power alone, and the company promises
excellent gas mileage.  I wonder how it will stack up to the Carrera GT, which was
released in 2004. A two-seater powered by a mid-engine V-10, it
made more than 600 horsepower. Priced at some $450,000, fewer
than 1,500 were produced.  While it used innovative technologies like a carbon-fiber
shell, the Carrera GT lacked many safety-minded driving aids
found on sports cars today. It was twitchy and hard to drive,
especially on the edge.  I tested it at  Mosport International Roadway  in Ontario,
 Canada . As a green racetrack driver at the time, its fury
outmatched my skill. I happily traded the steering wheel to a
pro, who showed me what the mid-engine screamer was truly
capable of.  Infamous McLaren  McLaren’s P1, meanwhile, is the successor of the supercar
that I’d most like to drive if I had the chance, the infamous
F1.  About as exotic as autos get, it broke records as the
world’s fastest production car, surging past 240 mph. Only 107
were ever produced. No wonder I’ve never driven one. (Though I
have had fast turns in the McLaren currently on the market, the
delightful  MP4-12C .)  While the company hasn’t released an official production
schedule for its new, top-of-the-line P1, the coupe will likely
go on sale at the end of the year.  I recently saw a P1 in the flesh at a presentation in  New
York , and the design is devastatingly cool, a complex weave of
exposed carbon-fiber, low-lipped air splitters and aerodynamic
ducts. It looks like half a fighter jet, half an alien
spacecraft. I’ve already commenced a lobbying campaign for a
test drive.  Acura Revival  Further out is a car much less rare and expensive, but
equally important to the brand: the Acura NSX.  The original NSX was produced from the early 1990s to 2005,
with a high-revving V-6 placed in the center of the car for
ideal balance. The design was sleek if not outlandish, and the
handling was astonishing. It was also relatively inexpensive,
starting at around $60,000.  The first time I saw one was on a spinning dais at a Las
Vegas casino, the grand prize on a bank of  slot machines . I was
in college and dreamed about racing it across the desert after a
lucky pull. Didn’t happen.  Flash forward to the late 1990s, when I tested one for a
magazine. I spirited it around a circular off-ramp again and
again, the centrifugal force caused lights to dance in my eyes.  Sexy Wedge  With less than 300 horsepower, it wasn’t nearly as powerful
as modern sports cars. But the accuracy of the steering and its
ability to dart into turns opened my eyes to the attainable
perfection of a lightweight car with a superior suspension.  The new design doesn’t specifically mimic the lines of the
original, but it is a mid-engine sports car fashioned into a
sexy, modern wedge.  It will have a direct-injected V-6 that powers the rear
wheels, and two electric motors for the front wheels. The result
should be added power and traction while lending efficiency.  Though we know it will be built in  Ohio , Acura is coy as to
release dates. It might come out as a 2016 model year.  Either way, I’m hoping for an early drive just to see how
it compares with my happy memories of the original.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Rich Jaroslovsky  on  electronics  and
 Greg Evans  on  television .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 