-- Prudential Hires Morgan Stanley’s Rossi For Brazil Post
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   B u n n
-- 2013-01-10T18:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/prudential-hires-morgan-stanley-s-rossi-for-brazil-real-estate.html
Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
second-largest U.S. life insurer, hired Adriana Drulla Rossi to
help manage real estate investments in Brazil as the company
builds operations in  Latin America .  The former Morgan Stanley investment-banking and private-
equity analyst will report to Fernando Herrera, regional
director of investments, according to a statement today from the
real estate arm of the  Newark , New Jersey-based insurer.  Prudential Real Estate Investors has been expanding in
Latin America, where the company makes deals on office,
industrial, residential and retail properties. In July, the
insurer announced the hiring of Alfonso Munk from Morgan Stanley
to oversee more than $3.2 billion in assets for the Latin
America unit, which does business in nations including  Brazil ,
Chile and  Mexico .  “Adriana’s real estate investment experience adds
tremendous depth to PREI’s global real estate asset management
capabilities,” Munk said in a statement. “She adds to the
strength of our existing team and demonstrates our commitment to
expand our business and provide our clients with the best
investment opportunities in the region.”  Economic growth in Latin America is projected to quicken to
3.6 percent in 2013, compared with 2 percent in the U.S. and
contraction in the region that shares the euro, according to
economists’ forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  At Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investing, she was involved
in transactions in the U.S. and Brazil, Prudential said. New
York-based Morgan Stanley plans to eliminate about 1,600 jobs
from its investment bank and support staff in coming weeks, a
person with direct knowledge of the matter said this week.  PREI managed $51.2 billion in gross real estate assets on
behalf of about 500 clients worldwide as of Sept. 30, up from
$48.6 billion a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Bunn in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  