-- Pulaski Skyway to NYC to Shut in 2014 for Two-Year Repair
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/pulaski-skyway-to-nyc-will-shut-for-two-years-in-2014-nbc-says.html
New Jersey’s Pulaski Skyway, a major
route to the Holland Tunnel and  Manhattan , will be closed to New
York-bound traffic for two years starting in 2014.  The 80-year-old causeway, which carries U.S. Routes 1 and 9
over its 3.5-mile (5.6 kilometer) distance, will undergo a $1
billion reconstruction starting after the National Football
League’s Super Bowl championship game at nearby MetLife Stadium
in 2014, the New Jersey Transportation Department said.  “We are announcing these construction plans a full year
before the serious impacts will be felt because we welcome and
value input from commuters, emergency service providers, local
officials, residents and business owners,” Transportation
Commissioner James Simpson said yesterday in a statement.  State Senator Nicholas Sacco, a North Bergen Democrat who
leads his chamber’s Transportation Committee, said there was
“no alternative plan” for the highway, which connects
Interstate 95 traffic to the Holland Tunnel.  “It’s a bleak picture,” he said by telephone. “It’s
going to be extremely difficult for people heading into the
city.” The structure wasn’t maintained for decades, he said.  Westbound Skyway traffic will continue, according to Joseph
Dee, a Transportation Department spokesman. Vehicles will shift
to repaired sections as work progresses on the road.  Shoulder Lane  The department will add an eastbound traffic lane on the
shoulder of the New Jersey Turnpike’s  Newark  Bay-Hudson County
Extension as an alternate route to ease congestion.  “The structure is in need of major repairs/rehabilitation
due to deterioration that has occurred over its lifetime,”
according to a history of the highway on the department’s
website. “The skyway is also functionally obsolete due to
several substandard geometric features,” including narrow lanes
and shoulders.  Steve Coleman, a spokesman for the Port Authority of  New
York  and New Jersey, which operates the Holland Tunnel, didn’t
respond to an e-mail and telephone call seeking comment on the
shutdown and repairs.  Planned improvements include deck replacement along the
road’s full length and repairs to columns, piers and abutments,
according to the state.  The Skyway carries more than 67,000 vehicles a day between
Jersey City in Hudson County and Newark in Essex County,
according to the Transportation Department. Built at a cost of
$20 million, or $3.2 billion in 2012 dollars, it spans the
Hackensack and Passaic rivers, the New Jersey Turnpike, railroad
tracks and local roads in Jersey City, Kearny and Newark. The
tunnel entrance to Manhattan is in Jersey City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton  at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  