-- QPR’s Redknapp Wants to Sign Gallas, Standard Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-10T11:22:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/qpr-s-redknapp-wants-to-sign-gallas-standard-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Gallas Wanted  Queens Park Rangers manager Harry Redknapp wants to
strengthen his club’s defense by signing William Gallas from
Tottenham, the  Evening Standard  said.  Adding a center-half is one of Redknapp’s priorities during
the January transfer period and he’s keen to link up with the
Frenchman, whom he managed with Spurs, the Standard said.  Gallas is out of contract after the season and talks about
an extension have been postponed until then, the Standard said.
QPR looks to capitalize on the situation by buying him now, the
newspaper added.  Staying Put  Tottenham’s chances of signing Leandro Damiao have taken a
hit after the striker’s agent said he expects him to stay with
his Brazilian club, the  Daily Mail  said.  Damiao was a favorite of former Tottenham manager Harry
Redknapp and the club’s interest has continued with Andre Villas-Boas now in charge, the Mail said.  Agent Vinicius Prates denied Spurs made a 15 million-pound
($24 million) bid and said Damiao is happy at Internacional,
where he is under contract through 2015, the newspaper said.  Pirlo’s Wish  Andrea Pirlo said Chelsea would be “mad” to let Frank Lampard leave and that he’d welcome him to the Juventus
midfield, the  Sun said .  Lampard, 34, is out of contract after the season and has
been linked with Juventus and Inter Milan, along with Manchester
United, the Sun added.  “They would be made to let him leave Chelsea, he’s still
one of the best in the world,” the newspaper quoted Pirlo as
saying “If he wants to play in  Italy  I would welcome him to
Juventus with open arms.”  Fellaini Replacement  Everton is lining up Wigan’s James McCarthy as a
replacement for midfielder Marouane Fellaini, who is a target of
Chelsea and Manchester United, the  Daily Star  said.  Toffees manager David Moyes is eager to hold on to his top
scorer, but has put McCarthy at the top of his shortlist to fill
the void if the Belgian leaves, the Star said.  Fired Up  Carlos Tevez says Roberto Mancini’s praise of Robin van Persie has lit a fire under the Manchester City strikers, the
 Daily Express  said.  Mancini last month said Manchester United’s signing of Van Persie has made the difference in the Premier League title race.
Since then, Tevez, Edin Dzeko and Sergio Aguero have all scored.  “Those words were motivation for the strikers,” the
Express quoted Tevez as saying. “We know we need to carry on
fighting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 