-- Rand Slips to Four-Week Low as Fitch Follows S&P With Downgrade
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-01-10T19:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/rand-gains-first-day-in-four-as-china-exports-beat-estimates.html
The rand slid for a fourth day to
the lowest in four weeks as  Fitch Ratings  followed Standard &
Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service in cutting  South Africa ’s
debt rating amid concern over the economy.  South Africa’s currency declined as much as 1.1 percent and
traded 0.8 percent weaker at 8.6663 per dollar by 1:59 p.m. in
 New York , the second-worst performance of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on the benchmark 10.5
percent bonds due December 2026 fell 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 7.11 percent after dropping 25 basis points
in the previous three days.  Fitch reduced South Africa by one level to BBB, the second-
lowest investment grade and on par with Brazil, Russia and
Mexico. The deterioration of the economy and  budget deficit  has
exacerbated social tensions in the nation, which has seen farm
worker protests this week and  Harmony Gold Mining Ltd. (HAR)  mull
closing its biggest mine on illegal strikes and violence. The
rand has lost 2.1 percent in 2013.  “The sentiment effect of the downgrade can’t be helpful
for the rand,”  Koon Chow , head of  emerging markets  strategy at
Barclays in London, said by phone. “It’s a modest negative
because ratings downgrades have been expected by investors, who
had already been cautious on the fiscal policy.”  Africa’s biggest economy faces weaker growth prospects and
heightened social and political tensions, Fitch said in a
report. The country’s rating outlook is stable.  Previous Cuts  “Weak growth reflects structural rigidities, declining
competitiveness, policy uncertainty and labor unrest,” Fitch
said in the report. “The economy has been beset by violent
strikes that have affected growth and the current account.”  Moody’s Investors Service in September cut the country’s
rating to Baa1 with a negative outlook. Standard & Poor’s
followed in October with a cut to BBB, also with a negative
outlook.  Pay strikes that began in platinum mines in August spread
to gold, coal and iron-ore operations, with about 120,000
workers downing tools at the peak of the unrest, according to
the Chamber of Mines. Labor action also disrupted transportation
and agriculture. The mining strikes began tailing off in
October, as pay settlements were reached.  The rand declined as currencies of other commodity-
exporting countries, including  Australia , New Zealand and  Chile 
gained. Police have arrested 63 people as protests by farm
workers in the Western Cape province continued today, three days
after Harmony Gold Mining said it may close its biggest mine.  ‘Bad Scenario’  “The Harmony saga puts South Africa in a very bad light in
the eyes of foreign investors,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the
Johannesburg-based chief dealer at Bidvest Bank, said by phone.
“It has the potential to diminish our export potential and
that’s a bad scenario for the rand. The agriculture protests
aren’t helping things.”  The rand stayed weaker even after manufacturing production
unexpectedly accelerated for a second month in November. Factory
output rose 3.4 percent, compared with a revised 2.7 percent in
October, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said on its
website today. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of
eight economists was 1.1 percent.  The currency advanced briefly after data showed exports
from  China , the biggest buyer of South African raw materials,
rose 14.1 percent in December from a year ago. That beat the 5
percent median estimate of 40 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Index rose 0.6 percent as metals
including copper and gold gained. Metals and other commodities
account for about 45 percent of South Africa’s exports.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  