-- RBC Boosts Mideast Wealth Fund Assets by 20% on Risk Profile
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2013-01-10T21:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/rbc-boosts-middle-east-wealth-fund-assets-by-20-on-risk-profile.html
A  Royal Bank of Canada  executive
said the cash, stocks, bonds and other assets it holds on behalf
of Middle East sovereign-wealth funds rose by 20 percent in 2012
as the investment pools diversify away from riskier lenders.  Cormac Sheedy, senior executive officer for the Middle East
and Africa at the bank’s RBC Investor Services Trust unit, said
the firm stepped up its efforts in 2012 to compete with London
and New York-based banks such as  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  State Street
Corp. (STT) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) 
that traditionally dominated custodian services in the region.  “Since the financial crisis, a lot of institutions have
been looking at risk,” Sheedy said in an interview in Dubai
today. “We’ve seen, particularly in the past 12 to 18 months, a
big move by sovereign-wealth funds, who are worried about all
aspects of risk, to diversify the custodian aspect.”  Royal Bank, based in Toronto, is among Canadian lenders
that have reached Basel III capital requirements six years
before the deadline set by global regulators. Canadian banks
have been ranked the world’s soundest for five straight years by
the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , and held four of the top
10 spots in Bloomberg Markets magazine’s May 2012 ranking of the
world’s strongest banks.  Basel III  Standard & Poor’s  affirmed its AA- rating on Royal Bank on
Dec. 14, the fourth-highest grade. HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank,
was cut to AA- from AA by  Fitch Ratings  on Dec. 7 as the lender
prepares for stiffer regulation and additional compliance costs.  Royal Bank has had sovereign-wealth fund clients in the
 Middle East  for at least 10 years. The Canadian lender is the
custodian for about C$2.8 trillion ($2.84 trillion) of assets
globally, Sheedy said. He wouldn’t disclose the proportion of
that figure that derives from the Middle East.  Canadian banks have to hold a higher level of capital than
mandated by international standards, putting them in better
shape than those in other nations that struggled to meet the
Jan. 1 deadline for starting to apply the revised Basel rules.
Basel III was drawn up by global regulators to prevent a repeat
of the financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The Middle East is home to some of the world’s largest
wealth funds, buoyed by proceeds from the region’s oil reserves.
In the United Arab Emirates alone, the  Abu Dhabi  Investment
Authority, the country’s largest wealth fund, had assets valued
at $328 billion at the end of 2008, according to economists at
the New York-based Council on Foreign Relations.  “There is a continual flight to quality in the sovereign-
wealth fund space,” Sheedy said. “We are very fortunate at RBC
that we are highly rated by the rating agencies and that
Canadian banks are extremely conservative. The banks in  Canada 
weren’t allowed to enter into the kind of transactions that some
of the banks in Europe were. On the back of that, our custody
business is growing very well in the region.”  Royal Bank fell 0.1 percent to C$60.88 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto. The  shares  rose 15 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Abu Dhabi at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  