-- Treasuries Drop on Speculation Economic Recovery Strengthening
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-01-10T22:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/treasury-30-year-bond-erases-losses-after-year-s-first-auction.html
Treasuries declined for the first
time in five days as the  European Central Bank ’s more optimistic
outlook and signs of growth in  China  reduced investor demand for
the refuge of  U.S. government debt .  Thirty-year  bonds  briefly pared losses after the initial
sale this year of $13 billion of the securities as yields above
3 percent prompted stronger-than-average demand. Investors felt
comfortable buying the bonds at auction with the  Federal Reserve 
pledging to buy $45 billion of Treasuries per month to help keep
borrowing rates low to sustain the U.S. economic expansion.  “There is a more risk-on atmosphere developing,” said
 Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in New York, one of
the 21 primary dealers that are required to bid at government-
debt auctions. “With the risks we have ahead, the market is
still confused on what the crisis premium should be, so we are
exploring new levels.”  The yield on  30-year bonds  rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 3.08 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices, after rising as high
as 3.10 percent. The benchmark  10-year note  yield gained four
basis points to 1.89 percent.  The bonds sold today drew a yield of 3.07 percent, compared
with a forecast of 3.095 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
nine of the Fed’s primary dealers. The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 2.77, tied for the highest since
December 2011.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 37.8 percent of the bonds, compared
with an average of 34.4 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 16.7 percent of
the bonds at the sale, compared with an average of 15.5 percent
for the past 10 auctions.  “Anyway you cut it, it’s a good auction,” said Tom Tucci,
managing director and head of Treasury trading in  New York  at
CIBC World Markets Corp. Investors have “been buying because
the yield is above 3 percent.”  The U.S. sold $21 billion of  10-year debt  yesterday at a
yield of 1.863 percent and auctioned $32 billion of  three-year
notes  on Jan. 8 at a yield of 0.385 percent.  The sales this week will raise $24.4 billion of new cash,
as maturing securities held by the public total $41.6 billion,
according to the Treasury.  Economic Indicators  U.S. government debt declined after China’s exports
increased 14.1 percent in December from a year earlier, the most
since May, government figures showed. Imports grew 6 percent
after being unchanged the previous month.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said “a gradual recovery should
start” later this year as the region’s bond markets stabilize
after three years of turmoil. Central-bank policy makers kept
their benchmark interest rate at 0.75 percent.  “People are more optimistic,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG,
a primary dealers. “The data is not great, but it’s OK.”  Fed Bank of Kansas City President Esther George said the
central bank’s record stimulus may fuel the risk of financial
instability and a surge in inflation. George holds a vote on the
 Federal Open Market Committee , which meets Jan. 29-30.  ‘Financial Imbalances’  “A prolonged period of zero  interest rates  may
substantially increase the risks of future financial imbalances
and hamper attainment of the” Fed’s 2 percent inflation goal,
George said today in a speech in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  Thirty-year bonds have handed investors a 2.3 percent loss
in January after returning 2.5 percent last year, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes show. The broader U.S. Treasuries
market has declined 0.45 percent.  The long bonds are among the securities most sensitive to
consumer prices because of their long maturity, as inflation
would erode the return on the bonds’ fixed payments for their
duration.  The Fed purchased $3.162 billion in Treasury securities
today maturing between February 2020 and November 2022 as part
its monthly purchases.  The Fed for the first time in December linked the outlook
for its main interest rate to unemployment and inflation
targets. The central bank said the rate would stay close to zero
“at least as long” as unemployment remains above 6.5 percent
and inflation projections are for no more than 2.5 percent.  The central bank’s preferred measure of inflation
expectations, the five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate ,
was 2.87 percent, compared with a 2012 average of 2.6 percent.
The gauge projects the expected pace of consumer price increases
from 2018 to 2023.  The yield on the 30-year bond is forecast to rise to 3.4
percent by year-end, according to the median estimates of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  