-- Regional Leaders Meet to End Central African Republic Unrest
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n
-- 2013-01-10T09:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/regional-leaders-meet-to-end-central-african-republic-unrest.html
Talks to end the month-old rebellion
in the  Central African Republic  are scheduled to resume today
with a meeting of regional heads of government in the Gabonese
capital, Libreville.  Basile Ikouebe, foreign minister of the Congo Republic,
opened negotiations yesterday between the government of the
Central African Republic and rebels. The insurgents, who accuse
President Francois Bozize of failing to honor the terms of a
2008 peace deal, have been moving toward Bangui since starting
an offensive on Dec. 10.  An alliance of insurgent groups, known as Seleka, moved on
Jan. 7 to within 12 kilometers (7.5 miles) of Damara, the last
major town on the road to Bangui. A multinational force from
neighboring Congo Republic,  France  and Gabon has been deployed
in the country, which is about the size of  Texas .  South Africa 
also agreed to send troops.  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since its independence from France in 1960, with at least four
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled his predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as
army chief.  Congo Republic President Denis Sassou Nguesso was appointed
mediator in the crisis last month by the 10-nation Economic
Community of Central African States. The insurgents are
demanding that Bozize, 66, step down as president.  Gold Project  The rebellion prompted  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold
explorer, to delay plans to open a mine in the country by at
least a year, the company’s chief executive officer, George Roach, said Jan. 7 by phone. Axmin has invested C$95 million
($96 million) in the gold project, which began development in
the late 1990s, he said.  Progress in securing financing for the Passendro Gold
project near Bambari, about 280 kilometers northeast of Bangui,
stalled after the insurgents overran the site last month, Roach
said.  Shares in Axmin fell 11 percent yesterday to a record low
on more than double the daily volume traded for the past three
months on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The stock has fallen 86
percent since Feb. 1.  Gabon and Congo Republic each sent 120 soldiers to the
Central African Republic to provide operational support for a
peace mission under the mandate of Eccas. France has also sent
150 troops, adding to the 250 it already has in the country to
support the mission and protect the 1,200 French citizens living
there.  South African President  Jacob Zuma  approved the dispatch of
400 troops, the presidency said on Jan. 6.  Uganda said it’s willing to contribute troops to halt
fighting in Central African Republic, where it already has an
unspecified number of soldiers hunting the Ugandan Lord’s
Resistance Army insurgents.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  