-- Dual-Identity Phones Helping Separate Work-Home Lives
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/rim-leads-phones-letting-employees-use-own-devices-on-job-tech.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , VMware Inc.
and Red Bend Software Inc. are working to give phones a split
personality, seeking an edge in the emerging market for tools
that let employees use their own gadgets on the job.  RIM in coming weeks will unveil an enhanced version of
BlackBerry Balance, software to help employees seamlessly use
their smartphones and tablets for work tasks without
compromising their privacy. The software also promises to help
businesses cut security risk and save money on hardware and
device management.  VMware and Red Bend are also building products for the
estimated  28 percent  of workers who use personal electronics for
work, according to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The market for
such software and related products reached a projected  $67.2
billion  in 2011.  “We think there’s a seismic shift in terms of usage
paradigm,” said Srinivas Krishnamurti, a senior director for
mobile solutions at  VMware. (VMW)  “The old school of management of
the devices doesn’t quite work.”  The stakes are especially high for RIM, which has been
struggling to compete with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  in
smartphones. The Waterloo, Ontario-based company, whose products
were once the leader among corporations looking for the most
secure system, saw total subscribers drop to 79 million in the
quarter that ended Dec. 1, from 80 million in the previous
period. RIM is introducing BlackBerry Balance as part of the new
operating system that is set to be released on Jan. 30.  Double Identity  Dual-identity phone products have the potential to reduce
the risk and cost to businesses of letting employees use their
own phones and tablets for work. Monthly charges for these
devices are typically 14 percent higher than for corporate-
issued devices, an Aberdeen Group  survey  of 100 businesses found
last year, and the use of personal devices can also expose
companies to more security threats.  VMware’s dual-use software runs on Google’s Android mobile
platform and will let one phone act as two: With the tap of an
icon, the phone’s home screen will switch from showing personal
wallpaper, contacts, schedule and applications such as Facebook
Inc. to a business screen, with only an employer’s apps and
contacts, all secured and managed by corporate engineers.  In addition to RIM and VMware, 13-year-old Red Bend also
has a new software tool that it expects to be part of several
phones labeled “enterprise-ready” and sold in carrier stores
this year, Red Bend Executive Vice President  Lori Sylvia  said.  Segregated Data  The new tools all have the ability to segregate personal
and business information on one device. They can restrict
corporations’ ability to access employees’ personal data, such
as texts, photos and posts on social networks such as Facebook
and Twitter Inc., ensuring greater privacy. They also let
companies wipe business data from the phones remotely -- when an
employee resigns, for example -- without damaging personal
content or apps on the device.  One potential downside for employees: if the phone breaks,
it’s still your personal phone, which means workers would be
responsible for getting it fixed, unless the company has a
repair or replacement policy.  Even so, installing dual-personality software may emerge as
the most popular way to make devices serve both purposes, said
Chenxi Wang, an analyst at Forrester Research.  Favored by VMware and Red Bend, the software approach works
by putting business applications and data on a second, virtual
operating system on the phone. Corporate data and apps are
completely walled off from the rest of the device.  Android-Only  Still, this method means consumers may need to check two
separate calendars and e-mail accounts. And for now, Red Bend’s
product and VMware’s double-duty mobile software, called  Horizon
Mobile , will only work on Android devices. VMware is developing
a version for Apple’s iPhones and iPad tablets, Krishnamurti
said.  VMware is working with Verizon Wireless,  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570)  and Samsung Electronics Co. to bring Horizon Mobile to the
U.S. market. The partners haven’t disclosed when the first
phones with the software will be available. Red Bend expects
devices with its virtual operating system to hit stores this
year, Sylvia said.  Such split-personality phone and tablet software -- just
one piece of the spending by corporations and individuals to
enable work-related use of mobile devices -- could spawn a new,
$1 billion market in as little as five years, Wang said.
Eventually, sales could rival the multibillion-dollar market for
software used to let corporate engineers remotely manage a
company’s PCs, she said.  “It will empower more workers to bring their own phones,”
Wang said. “We could see a huge upswing in adoption.”  ‘Dual-Persona’  Spending by corporations and employees on hardware,
software and services related to personal devices used for work
will reach  $181.4 billion  by 2017, more than doubling from 2011,
according to researcher MarketsandMarkets.  VMware hasn’t made the cost of Horizon Mobile public. Red
Bend said it plans to charge device makers a royalty for
preinstalling its software.  “We firmly believe dual-persona is what the market
needs,” said Ki S. Kim, corporate vice president of enterprise
mobility solutions at LG. In the future, LG may preinstall the
software on some of its phones, he said.  To address the issue of separate calendars and e-mail
accounts, RIM has proposed a different technical approach with
BlackBerry Balance. The tool combines personal and professional
messages, calendars and contacts on the mobile device, instead
of cordoning them off and making a user toggle back and forth.  No Walls  “If I know someone personally and professionally, I don’t
want to see them two or three times” on contact lists, said
Jeff Holleran, senior director of enterprise product management
at RIM.  The new products from RIM, VMware and Red Bend will also
compete with offerings from  Good Technology Inc. , AirWatch LLC,
MobileIron Inc.,  Citrix Systems Inc. (CTXS)  and Enterproid Inc. Each
company offers a different way to secure and manage corporate
applications and data without creating a second, virtual
operating system -- usually by having users download an app that
grants corporate technology departments access to the device.  “People have single lives,” said Alan Dabbiere, co-
founder of AirWatch. In one configuration of AirWatch’s
software, users can download an app that lets corporate
engineers set up a secure connection to business data, give
access to company apps or detect hackers.  Multiple Solutions  While rivals in the burgeoning bring-your-own-device market
are taking different tacks, the reality is that most
corporations will need many types of software to manage their
diverse mobile fleets, said Mobeen Khan, executive director for
AT&T Advanced Mobility Solutions, which has agreements to resell
mobile corporate software products from Enterproid, VMware and
OpenPeak Inc.  “We are looking to take the best-of-breed solutions and
integrate them,” Khan said. “Outside of devices, this is one
of the fastest growth areas for us.”  Handset makers are also aiming to provide an array of
mobile device-management software. LG, for example, works with a
number of partners, including VMware and Open Kernel Labs Inc.,
which was  acquired  by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  in September. Open
Kernel provides mobile-device security to public-safety and
military customers.  With corporations likely to adopt a variety of technology
approaches, consolidation in the industry may continue, said Ken Dulaney, an analyst at researcher Gartner Inc.  “I fully expect a number of the other players to
combine,” he said. “Companies don’t want to buy a bunch of
products from different little companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  