-- Rolls Names Head of Ethics Probe Amid Corruption Concerns
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-10T08:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/rolls-royce-names-head-of-ethics-probe-amid-corruption-concerns.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) , Europe’s
largest maker of commercial aircraft engines, named  David Gold 
to review anti-corruption procedures after the U.K. government
questioned potential wrongdoing in business dealings in Asia.  Gold, a member of the House of Lords and previously a
partner at the Herbert Smith LLP law firm, will report to the
board’s ethics committee, the London-based company said in a
statement today. The review is focused on actions of
“intermediaries in overseas markets,” it said.  Rolls-Royce “identified matters of concern” in China and
Indonesia in a review spurred by an inquiry from the U.K.
Serious Fraud Office, it said Dec. 6. The SFO hasn’t decided
whether to elevate the investigation into a formal probe that
could take more than a year to complete.  Rolls shares fell as much as 0.6 percent and were trading
at 893 pence at 8:06 a.m. in London. Shares have declined for
four days.  Rolls joins other aerospace companies that have been the
subject of corruption probes, including  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
 European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. (EAD) , which is under
investigation by the U.K. over dealings in  Saudi Arabia .  “Neither I nor the board will tolerate improper business
conduct of any sort and will take all necessary action to ensure
compliance,” Rolls-Royce Chief Executive Officer John Rishton
said last month when the company made the concerns public.  Gold’s review will examine compliance procedures across the
company. It follows an investigation last year by law firm
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP after concerns about misdeeds were
raised. Rolls has provided findings to the SFO.  Dick Taylor, a former Rolls-Royce employee in Asia, has
said sales of commercial jet engines in Indonesia were spurred
by bribes. The Sunday Times said Jan. 6 that turbine sales to
Air China and  China Eastern  may also have been subject to
illegal payments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  