-- Russia May Allow U.S. Adoptions Put in Doubt by New Law
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-01-10T19:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/russia-may-allow-u-s-adoptions-put-in-doubt-by-new-law.html
The U.S. is “very hopeful” that
Russia will allow Americans to complete pending adoptions
jeopardized by a new Russian ban, State Department spokeswoman
 Victoria Nuland  said.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin ’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov
said today that a U.S.-Russia adoption agreement remains in
effect until January 2014 because of a provision setting a one-
year termination delay, according to the Russian state news
service RIA Novosti.  “The agreement is in force at the moment,” Peskov told
RIA Novosti. “It will be in force over the course of the
year.”  The RIA Novosti report said it “was not immediately
clear” whether his statement means that adoptions under way
will be allowed to be completed.  The U.S. will seek clarification from the Russian
government and press for pending adoptions to proceed on
humanitarian grounds, Nuland said.  Nuland said yesterday that 500 to 1,000 U.S. families are
in various stages in the process of adopting Russian children.
The RIA Novosti report used a figure of 46 pending adoptions.  “We are very hopeful that we will be able to complete the
cases of adoption that had been begun before the law was passed,
so that’s something that we will be working on with the Russian
government,” Nuland told reporters in Washington.  Russia ’s parliament passed legislation last month barring
U.S. adoptions of Russian children in retaliation for American
sanctions over the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky, who’d
sought to expose alleged corruption among Interior Ministry
officers. The adoption ban was signed into law by Putin on Dec.
28.  Protest Planned  Peskov said the terms of the bilateral adoption accord
state that it remains in force for a year after one party states
its desire to withdraw from the accord.  Russian opposition activists plan a march in downtown
Moscow on Jan. 13 to protest the adoption ban.  City Hall  gave
permission for the event, one of the organizers, Pyotr Tsarkov,
said on his Twitter Inc. account yesterday. More than 3,000
people have said they may attend the march, according to its
Facebook page.  Russia’s move to prohibit Americans from adopting Russian
children is the latest threat to the Obama administration’s
flagging attempt to “reset” relations between the two Cold War
rivals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in  Washington  at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  