-- Russia to Hold Rates as Downturn Sets Stage for Easing
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2013-01-11T13:40:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/russia-to-hold-rates-as-economic-slowdown-sets-stage-for-easing.html
Russia  will probably leave interest
rates unchanged as the central bank considers policy options to
tackle the slowest growth since a slump ended three years ago.  Bank Rossii will hold the refinancing rate at 8.25 percent
for a fourth month at a Jan. 15 meeting in Moscow, according to
all 16 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The overnight and one-
week repurchase rates used to provide banks with cash will stay
at 5.5 percent and the overnight deposit rate will be kept at
4.5 percent, two separate surveys showed.  Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is weighing the need for monetary
stimulus in his final months at the helm of Bank Rossii as his
counterparts from  Poland  to Colombia lower interest rates to
revive economic growth. As the effects of a poor harvest subside
and inflation pressures moderate, Russia’s expansion is
stumbling to the weakest pace since a  recovery  began in 2010.  “Right now there’s no necessity to change rates, and
they’ll need to wait to see how the inflation situation
develops,” Vladimir Tikhomirov, chief economist at Otkritie
Financial Corp. in Moscow, said by telephone Jan. 9. “There may
be an acceleration in the first quarter because of the year
earlier comparison, but inflation for the full year should drop
significantly.”  The ruble last year posted the best performance among
currencies of the four major emerging nations when it
appreciated 5.7 percent against the dollar, beating losses for
the Brazilian real and  India ’s rupee last year and outpacing the
Chinese  yuan ’s 1 percent advance. The ruble retreated 0.3
percent to 30.2650 per dollar as of 5:28 p.m. in Moscow. The
Micex Index gained 0.3 percent to 1,511.68.  Acceptable Rates  Policy makers led by Ignatiev, whose third and final term
ends this year, left the main lending rates unchanged last month
while cutting the cost to swap foreign currency into rubles by a
quarter-point and increasing the overnight deposit rate by the
same amount. Bank Rossii said money-market rates are
“acceptable for the nearest future” in its Dec. 10 statement,
using the phrase for the first time since July.  The central bank is unlikely to change rates this month,
Alexey Ulyukayev, the first deputy chairman who oversees
monetary policy, said in a Dec. 19  interview  with Interfax. The
phrase “nearest future” is understood by the market to mean no
change at the next meeting, Ulyukayev was cited as saying by the
news service.  Price growth quickened to 6.6 percent in December from a
year earlier after remaining at 6.5 percent in the previous two
months. The central bank wants to hold inflation at 5 percent to
6 percent this year.  ‘Nearest Future’  Investors will also watch the wording of the central bank’s
statement as policy makers last said rates were at an acceptable
level for the “nearest future” in July, two months before
unexpectedly raising borrowing costs as inflation breached the 6
percent upper limit of the central bank’s target range. Bank
Rossii used a reference to rates being adequate for the “coming
months” during every meeting last year until July.  “The main question is whether they will repeat the phrase
that the current level of rates is acceptable for the nearest
future,” Maxim Oreshkin, chief economist for Russia at VTB
Capital in Moscow, said by phone Jan. 9. “Beginning in March or
April we’re expecting action to ease monetary policy as
inflationary pressure eases and economic growth slows.”  Investor Expectations  Three-month borrowing costs may fall 22 basis points, or
0.22 percentage point, in the next three months, according to
forward-rate agreements tracked by Bloomberg. That’s down from
as high as 38 basis points on Dec. 11, the day after last
month’s rates meeting.  The cost to fix floating interest payments in rubles for a
year using rate swaps was 7.27 percent today, down from last
year’s high of 7.81 percent on July 9, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Bank Rossii will deliver a rate decrease by the end of the
second quarter after holding borrowing costs in the first three
months of 2013, a Bloomberg poll showed. The refinancing rate
will fall to 8 percent by year-end, a quarter-point above the
record low, according to the median estimate of 11 economists in
a Bloomberg survey.  President Vladimir Putin, who won re-election to a third
term last year, said Dec. 12 that working further to contain
price growth remains a top priority and may take precedence over
short-term growth. The threat of inflation was ranked alongside
low living standards as the second-biggest problem facing the
country, according to a Jan. 9  poll  published by the state-run
All-Russian Center for the Study of Public Opinion.  Slumping Growth  Consumer confidence  fell in the fourth quarter to the
lowest level in 1 1/2 years as Russians took a more dour view of
the economy and their personal finances over the past year, the
Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said in a report today.  Economic growth slowed to 2.9 percent in the third quarter
compared with a year ago, down from 4.9 percent in the first
quarter. The expansion probably decelerated further in the final
three months of 2012, with gross domestic product expanding just
2.5 percent, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
in a Bloomberg survey.  “The latest industrial production data and our PMIs
suggest that the risks to economic growth have strengthened in
recent months,” Alexander Morozov, chief economist for Russia
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by phone Jan. 9. “While the central
bank shouldn’t change rates now, its statements will
increasingly focus on closer attention to the risks of weakening
economic growth to prepare for lowering rates throughout the
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  