-- Ryanair Said to Face Renewed Antitrust Obstacles on Aer Lingus
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-10T17:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/ryanair-said-to-face-renewed-antitrust-obstacles-on-aer-lingus.html
Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  was told by
the European Commission this week that it must propose further
concessions to rescue a bid for  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL) , according
to two people familiar with the matter.  European Commission officials met executives from Dublin-
based Ryanair in Brussels two days ago to discuss antitrust
objections to the bid and outlined shortcomings in remedies
proposed by the carrier in December, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the matter is private. Ryanair has
until the end of the month to respond, one of the people said,  Antoine Colombani, a European Commission spokesman,
declined to comment on the process, as did Ryanair spokesman
Stephen McNamara.  Europe ’s biggest discount airline, which owns  29.8 percent 
of Aer Lingus, in June renewed its pursuit to buy the rest of
its rival, five years after the EU agency blocked an earlier
takeover attempt, saying it would create a monopoly for Irish
flights. The 694 million euros ($917 million) bid has also drawn
opposition from Aer Lingus and Ireland’s government.  Ryanair last month offered new concessions to the European
Commission to allay antitrust concerns over the deal after an
earlier offer failed to convince regulators, according to two
people familiar with the matter. Neither Ryanair nor the EU gave
details of the new proposal.  Revolutionary Concessions  Ryanair Chief Executive Officer  Michael O’Leary  said in
September that the company would consider selling its Aer Lingus
stake if regulators turned down a “revolutionary” package of
concessions. The airline has said it could exit all 46 Dublin
routes that overlap with Aer Lingus and that several rival
carriers are interested in competing at Irish airports.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA (IAG) , owner of
British Airways, in December signed a non-binding agreement to
buy landing slots at  London ’s Heathrow airport from Ryanair if
it completes the planned takeover.  The Irish government, which owns 25 percent of Aer Lingus,
said last month that Ryanair’s remedies didn’t satisfy their
concerns and it wouldn’t support any offer that would
significantly undermine flight connections from the country.  The European Commission has a Feb. 27 deadline to rule on
the deal. A draft decision from the antitrust agency may be
issued in the first two weeks of February, according to a person
familiar with the matter.  The Commission said in August that the takeover could
eliminate competition on a large number of routes and few new
competitors are likely.  EU regulators blocked Ryanair’s bid for Aer Lingus in 2007,
saying a takeover would allow the discount airline to dominate
35 routes and control 80 percent of the market in Dublin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at  jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 