-- S. Africa Manufacturing Climbs as Strike Effect Wanes
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2013-01-10T11:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/s-africa-manufacturing-climbs-as-strike-effect-wanes.html
South African  manufacturing 
unexpectedly accelerated for a second month in November, as
production rebounded following the settlement of a series of
mining strikes.  Factory output rose 3.4 percent, compared with a revised
2.7 percent in October, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa
said on its website today. The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg
survey of eight economists was 1.1 percent. Output rose 2.3
percent in the month.  Pay strikes that began in platinum mines in August spread
to gold, coal and iron-ore operations, with about 120,000
workers downing tools at the peak of the unrest, according to
the Chamber of Mines. Labor action also disrupted transportation
and agriculture. The mining strikes began tailing off in
October, as pay settlements were reached.  “Half our manufacturing basically delivers to the mining
industry or related industries,”  Mike Schussler , chief
economist at independent research group Economists.co.za, said
today in a phone interview from Johannesburg before the release
of the data. “Our manufacturing is still not out of a longer-
term slump. We’ve got a severe problem to get the production
side of our economy, including manufacturing and mining going.”  Besides having to contend with labor action, South African
producers have had to find alternative markets for their goods
following a decline in demand from  Europe , which buys about a
third of the country’s manufactured exports. The 17-nation euro-
area economy will probably shrink 0.3 percent this year, the
European Central Bank said on Dec. 6.  The central bank held its benchmark repurchase rate at 5
percent on Nov. 22, the lowest level in more than 30 years,
after a surprise cut on July 19 to stimulate the economy.  South
Africa (WHL) ’s gross domestic product will expand 2.5 percent this
year, according to the bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  