-- Sandusky Lawyers Ask for New Trial, Shorter Sentence
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   R o n   M u s s e l m a n
-- 2013-01-11T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sandusky-lawyers-ask-for-new-trial-shorter-sentence.html
Lawyers for Jerry Sandusky, the
former  Pennsylvania  State University assistant football coach
sentenced to prison for 30 to 60 years, asked a court to throw
out his conviction for child sexual abuse.  Prosecutors failed to produce enough evidence to support
their claims against Sandusky and there was insufficient time to
prepare for the case, defense attorney Norris Gelman told Judge
John Cleland during a hearing yesterday in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  Sandusky, who will turn 69 on Jan. 26, was transported from
prison for the proceedings. He was found guilty in June by a
jury of abusing 10 boys over a 15-year period and convicted on
45 counts. He was sentenced in October and will serve at least
three decades in prison before he’s considered for parole.  The abuse took place at Sandusky’s home and various
locations on  Penn State ’s campus in  State College , Pennsylvania,
including a football locker room. During a two-week trial in
June, prosecutors portrayed Sandusky as a serial child molester
who used a charity he founded to recruit victims, befriending
them with gifts, trips to Penn State football games and money.  Sandusky’s trial team lacked the time to prepare for the
case after prosecutors turned over a “vast amount” of
documents in the months leading up to the trial, Gelman said.
The defense has argued in court filings that Cleland’s denial of
Sandusky’s requests to delay the trial interfered with his
constitutional rights.  12,000 Pages  Joseph Amendola, Sandusky’s lead trial attorney, testified
yesterday that he received more than 12,000 pages of so-called
discovery documents from prosecutors from January to May 2012.
Amendola, who is now a consultant in the case, said under cross-
examination by lead prosecutor Joseph McGettigan that he
wouldn’t have altered his trial strategy even with more time.  “So what’s the prejudice? What’s the harm?” Cleland asked
Gelman.  Sandusky was brought to the 90-minute hearing from a
maximum-security state prison in Waynesburg, Pennsylvania,
almost 200 miles from Bellefonte. He looked frail in a red
prison jumpsuit and had little interaction with his attorneys.
His wife, Dottie, sat in the front row on a bench with one of
his sons and two other people.  Cleland didn’t indicate when he would issue a ruling in the
case. McGettigan said after the hearing that he expected a
decision in about a month.  ‘No Merit’  The defense “was grasping at straws,” McGettigan said.
“It was something they had to do but as the hearing reflected
their points had no merit.”  The Sandusky case tarnished Penn State’s image and a
university-commissioned investigation concluded that  a
“culture of reverence” for the school football led officials
to coverup allegations against the coach.  Sandusky played and coached under  Joe Paterno , Penn State’s
legendary head football coach, for more than 30 years before
retiring in 1999. Prosecutors began investigating allegations
against him in early 2009 but didn’t file charges until November
2011, almost three years after the probe began.  Paterno, who died in January 2012, and former Penn State
President  Graham Spanier  were fired as a result of the case and
the school was sanctioned by the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association . Spanier and two other school officials also face
criminal charges tied to a 2001 abuse allegation against
Sandusky.  The NCAA fined the school $60 million for its failure to
prevent the abuse less than two weeks after an investigation
found evidence of a coverup among top school officials including
Paterno. That fine was the subject of a lawsuit last week by
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett who accused the NCAA of
overstepping its authority.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-CR-2011, Court of Common Pleas, Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Musselman in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, at
 ronniemuss@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  