-- SAP Challenges Oracle by Boosting Flagship Software Speed
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2013-01-11T08:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sap-challenges-oracle-with-speed-increase-to-mainstay-software.html
SAP AG (SAP)  unveiled the biggest overhaul
to its mainstay enterprise software in two decades, in a move to
cement its dominance in that market while springing an attack on
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s database business.  At an event in  Palo Alto ,  California , the German company
showed a much faster version of its Business Suite software
running on top of its Hana database. By speeding up business
tasks from pricing airline tickets to predicting weather, SAP is
pushing to replace  database software  from Oracle,  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  and  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  that customers
use to process and analyze information, SAP executives said.  “This is like the fight for the mobile phone -- the best
companies in the world are competing,”  Hasso Plattner , co-
founder and supervisory board chairman, said in an interview.
“I’m comfortable because I see a clear path ahead.”  The move bolsters a core product, which still accounts for
the bulk of SAP’s revenue, after a switch in focus in the past
three years to expand into mobile and Internet-based software.
The company, which has traditionally had to rely on databases
supplied by Oracle and IBM, is also betting new features will
convince customers to choose its own product.  Investors reacted positively to the news, sending SAP
shares up 1.9 percent to 61.75 euros at 9:13 a.m. in  Frankfurt .
The stock has advanced 47 percent in the past year. Oracle added
0.7 percent to the equivalent of $31.91 in German trading.  ‘Strategic Position’  “SAP is serious about expanding its strategic direction in
the database market,”  Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc., said in a note yesterday. “We view the Hana
initiatives as a strategic positive in repositioning the company
for growth.” Sherlund has a buy rating on the shares.  SAP’s Hana software stores data in faster computer memory
instead of on slower disk drives, and lets customers handle
business transaction data and its analysis in the same system,
instead of buying two different products.  “We’re dramatically challenging the database market with a
new value proposition and a next-generation technology,” Jim Hagemann Snabe, co-Chief Executive Officer, said in an interview
in Frankfurt. He called the new Business Suite the biggest
breakthrough in applications since SAP released the R/3 software
in 1992.  SAP is pricing Hana so customers won’t need to pay more in
licensing fees that they do for existing databases that handle
processing and analysis needs for their SAP software, executives
said. About 40,000 SAP customers run its applications on Oracle
or IBM databases.  Market Share  “If they use Hana they will get a comparable price even
though you could argue it is the best and fastest database in
the market,” said Snabe.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , has about 22 percent of
the market for software that lets companies manage tasks such as
payroll, inventory and product management, according to  Panorama
Consulting Solutions .  Redwood City , California-based Oracle has
a 15 percent share, followed by Microsoft with 10 percent.  “This is their flagship product, they have to get this
right,” said  Ray Wang , CEO of Constellation Research Inc. “If
the performance difference is creating a huge competitive
advantage, I would imagine that a lot of people would consider”
adopting Hana, he said.  SAP is targeting close to 1,000 customers using some
components of Business Suite using Hana by the end of the year,
said Bernd Leukert, executive vice president for application
innovation.  Profit Estimates  Plattner said SAP may exert more influence with computer
makers over how servers running its products are designed.  “I see that SAP will have a bigger role in designing
servers,” Plattner said.  Analysts project  that the company’s operating profit grew
12 percent to 5.27 billion euros last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That would beat the company’s forecast
range of 5.05 billion euros to 5.25 billion euros. SAP is
scheduled to report earnings Jan. 23.  SAP introduced the technology in 2011 and has since worked
to boost its adoption through subsidies and encouraging startups
to develop applications to take advantage of its speed. Its goal
for last year was to more than double Hana revenue from 160
million euros.  SAP has tested the Hana-driven Business Suite with more
than 10 customers including  Deere & Co. (DE) , the largest
agricultural equipment maker. Deere will be able to use the
software to offer services to farmers who have Deere equipment,
including weather and crop advice based on weather patterns,
Aiaz Kazi, SAP’s head of technology and innovation platform
marketing, said in an interview.  ‘Real Time’  The technology would let a beverage manufacturer optimize
delivery routes by showing a real-time overview of stocks in
stores across a particular region. A large airline is using it
to determine ticket prices for individual customers on the fly.  Kurt de Ruwe, the chief information officer of  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s
MaterialScience unit, which is one of the pilot clients, said
the time required for common data analysis tasks were cut to 3
seconds from 30 seconds, while costs went down 20 percent from
the previous setup.  “We couldn’t believe how fast the data came back,” de
Ruwe said in Frankfurt. “Today we are constrained by time, but
with Hana our outlook could change.”  SAP plans to offer all its programs on the Hana platform
eventually, and to announce as early as May that tools from its
SuccessFactors and Ariba units will run on Hana, Kazi said.  SAP said it will start providing a rapid-deployment feature
this quarter for implementation within six months for customers
migrating to Hana. Still, Snabe vowed that Business Suite would
continue supporting rival databases.  He said SAP is trying to train a workforce for quickly
delivering the new software and adjusting it to clients’
systems, to avoid a “skill gap” that could slow adoption.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  