-- HSBC Has Nothing Further to Disclose on Ping An Disposal
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-01-11T01:34:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/hsbc-has-nothing-further-to-disclose-on-ping-an-disposal.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , faced with
growing concern its plan to sell a $9.4 billion stake in Ping An
Insurance (Group) Co. will fail, said it has no material
information to disclose about the negotiations.  “HSBC confirms that it is not aware of any information
which must be announced to avoid a false market” in its own
shares, the London-based bank said in a statement yesterday
prompted by Hong Kong’s market regulators. The announcement of
the proposed sale “remains accurate,” the lender said.  Concern is growing that Chinese regulators may block the
transaction, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts
Mancy Sun and Ning Ma. The sale is part of HSBC Chief Executive
Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s plan to boost returns by selling
assets to focus on growing economies in which the bank has the
greatest market share.  The  China  Insurance Regulatory Commission is leading a
preliminary review of the application for the transaction, the
watchdog said in a statement yesterday. Separately,  China
Development Bank , which had agreed to help finance the purchase
by Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand Group
Co., canceled its loans, China’s Caixin Online reported Jan. 8.  “If HSBC had some bad news to tell the market, they would,
I think,” Sandy Chen, an analyst at Cenkos Securities in
 London , said by telephone. “I think there’s some room in there
for other lenders to step in.”  HSBC  rose  1.2 percent to HK$84.15 in Hong Kong trading
today, while Ping An gained 0.3 percent to HK$68. The benchmark
 Hang Seng Index  increased 0.5 percent.  HSBC agreed on Dec. 5 to sell its 15.6 percent holding in
Ping An to four subsidiaries of CP Group in two phases. The
first stage, comprising shares valued at about HK$15 billion
($1.9 billion), was scheduled for Dec. 7. The sale of the
remaining shares requires approval from CIRC by Feb. 1, or else
an extension of the accord.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  