-- SEC Sues Volt Information for Allegedly Misstated Revenue
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-01-11T00:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sec-sues-volt-information-for-allegedly-misstating-revenue-1-.html
Volt Information Sciences Inc. (VISI)  was
sued by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and settled
with the regulator over claims it misstated $7.55 million in
software revenue and income.  Volt, a provider of staffing, call-center and technology
services, asserted that it had a $10 million contract with a
customer to justify the revenue recognition and incorporated the
improper revenue in regulatory filings with the SEC, according
to a complaint filed today in federal court in Manhattan.  “The company is pleased to resolve the matter and move
forward,” Joan McKown, a partner at Jones Day who is
representing New York-based Volt, said in a phone interview.
“They cooperated with the SEC and they have taken extensive
remedial steps. The SEC is not seeking a penalty against the
company.”  The SEC also settled its claims against Debra Hobbs, the
former chief financial officer for the company’s computer-
segment unit, Volt Delta Resources, said  John Nester , a
spokesman for the SEC. Hobbs was accused of overstating revenue
and consolidated net income for its 2007 fourth-quarter and
year-end financial statements issued in January 2008 and
February 2008.  Volt Ex-CFO  The SEC filed a separate complaint in federal court in
Manhattan against Volt’s former chief financial officer, Jack
Egan Jr., alleging he “provided substantial assistance” and
allowed misleading omissions in Volt’s fraudulent recognition of
revenue.  The SEC alleges that Egan, a certified public accountant,
knew that Volt’s representations were false and didn’t comply
with generally accepted accounting practices. Egan hasn’t
settled the SEC’s claims, Nester said.  Paul Schoeman, a lawyer for Egan, didn’t immediately return
a voice-mail message left at his office seeking comment on the
complaint.  Volt announced the SEC investigation in November 2008. The
company conducted an internal review of its accounting for
review and related costs and is in the process of preparing a
restated financial statement, Chief Executive Officer Ron Kochman said in a statement.  “We are committed to adhering to the highest standards of
accounting and corporate governance,” Kochman said in the
statement. “We have cooperated with the SEC throughout this
investigation and we have made a significant investment in
reviewing and improving our accounting processes and internal
controls.”  The accord is subject to approval by a federal judge in New
York who is presiding over the case.  The cases are Securities and Exchange Commission v. Volt
Information Sciences Inc., 13-cv-00237, and Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Egan, 13-cv-00236, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  