-- Sexual Denial Doesn’t Mix Well With Inequality
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2013-01-10T22:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sexual-denial-doesn-t-mix-well-with-inequality.html
Women hold up half the sky, as Mao Zedong once declared. Decades later, they don’t hold up much of
anything in the halls of Chinese power.  In 2012, Liu Yang proved the inverse of Mao’s point, at
least as far as  China  is concerned. The 34-year-old became the
first Chinese woman to orbit the Earth. Her milestone
highlighted a less heavenly reality: It’s easier for a Chinese
woman to circle our planet in outer space than to reach the
highest rungs of male-dominated Beijing politics.  Expectations that a woman would be included in the
Politburo Standing Committee, China’s most powerful body, came
to naught last year. While one did make it to the broader 25-
member Politburo, the outcome had China watchers lamenting how
the Communist Party remains an old-boys club.  As women cool their heels for another 10 years, China has
an even bigger gender problem on its hands: a girl shortage.  By 2020, as many as 40 million more men than women will
reach adulthood and enter the world’s most competitive mating
market. That estimate, which may actually prove to be
conservative, would become a stark economic reality on Xi Jinping’s watch. China’s next president has barely broached this
population mismatch in speeches, never mind suggested solutions.  One Child  China’s cultural preference for sons is partly about
economics. Parents can hope to live with their sons in old age,
whereas daughters tend to enter other family systems. The
resulting testosterone glut is the most unintended and dangerous
side effect of the one-child  policy .  Tens of millions of young, ambitious men unable to find
girlfriends or wives can’t be good for any economy, never mind
one poised to surpass the U.S. Will the economics of sexual
frustration lead to families auctioning off their daughters?
Anyone who has watched the popular Chinese game show “ One Out
of 100 ,” where attractive young women pick from a herd of
lonely guys, has to wonder. Or state-sanctioned polygamy,
whereby women marry multiple men?  Geopolitics is another concern. Officials in Vietnam,
Mongolia and Myanmar already are decrying the flow of women to
Asia’s biggest economy. In a 2012 study, “ The Competition for
Brides in East Asia ,” Soohyung Lee envisions a future that
might shock science-fiction scribes from Stephen King to
Margaret Atwood. Who knows, North Korea’s main export may soon
be marriage-age women.  Many pundits are hopeful that Xi will be the great reformer
that the world has been craving, including Nicholas Kristof, co-
author of the 2009 book on Asia’s women “ Half the Sky .” There
are a few promising signs that Xi will address the towering
problems that President Hu Jintao ignored. There’s talk of
shutting the labor camps that enrage human-rights activists.
Xi’s move to replicate Deng Xiaoping’s 1992 trek through the
industrial southeast suggests plans to modernize the economy.  That’s all important. China must stop being the sweatshop
of choice for Western manufacturers and start building a more
sophisticated demand-driven economy. Just as critical is
altering the demographic trajectory.  “It’s critical for China to do everything in its power to
redress the deteriorating sex ratio among China’s birth
population, even if this means moving toward a two-child
policy,” says Valerie Hudson, a co-author of “ Sex and World
Peace .” “Internal, regional, and even international security
is compromised by the fact that approximately 15 percent of its
young adult males will not be able to form conventional
households. China need only look to its own imperial history to
see the destabilizing consequences of devaluing daughters.”  More Kids  Of course, allowing families to have more kids would create
other issues. Environmentalists worry that our planet can’t
handle the strain of 7 billion people all polluting at
developed-country rates. That calculus gets even uglier if
China’s population, now at 1.3 billion, heads toward 2 billion
in short order. It’s up to Xi’s team to find a balance between
narrowing the gender gap and sustainable growth.  China is hardly alone.  India ’s girl deficit also requires
urgent attention. Today’s protests are over the brutal gang rape
and murder of a 23-year-old New Delhi woman. The demonstrators
are also spurring more scrutiny of the shameful record on
women’s rights in the world’s biggest democracy, including the
odds of girls even being born. American feminist writer Mary
Anne Warren called the exploding number of sex-selection
abortions “gendercide” way back in 1985.  Some historians are concerned that Asia’s bachelor
generation could even fuel wars. Harvard University’s Niall Ferguson, for example, wonders if it will incite Arab Spring-
like uprisings, Brazilian-style crime or worse.  Europe ’s
continent-wide wars and colonial conquests are sometimes seen as
manifestations of population stresses.  It isn’t that hard to imagine how the unmet needs of young
men might mix with perceptions that China’s economy is rigged
for the party elites. Try as he might to intensify Internet
censorship, Xi will find it hard to keep China’s struggling
masses from learning how rich Communist Party members are
becoming. Tens of millions of young, underpaid and unloved men
angry at their leaders is in no one’s interest. Over the next
decade, Xi will have to keep China’s demographic sky from
falling.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  