-- Shale-Gas Boom Can Complement Renewables to Cut Coal, IRENA Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-01-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/shale-gas-boom-can-complement-renewables-to-cut-coal-irena-says.html
A boom in shale-gas extraction, the
technique that made the U.S. the top producer of the fuel, would
complement growth in renewables because both curb use of dirtier
commodities, the  International Renewable Energy Agency  said.  “Gas in the first instance is going to displace coal,”
Adnan Amin, director-general of the agency known as IRENA, said
in an interview in Abu Dhabi. “Shale gas at low cost can help
to create a hybrid system,” whereby more gas-fired power is fed
to the grid, supplanting coal, and augmented by wind and solar.  Countries are seeking to diversify their energy mix, cut
imports and contain output costs without adding to emissions.
While a decline in the cost of renewables has made many more
competitive with fossil fuels, gas prices have also sunk as U.S.
output expands, falling to $1.91 a million British thermal units
last April. Gas releases carbon yet burns more cleanly than coal
and can supply constant power unlike intermittent wind or solar.  “There’s increasing sensitivity to carbon emissions,”
Amin said Jan. 9. “Gas is much cleaner so it will be the fuel
of choice at these prices for power generation.” Solar or wind
energy can complement gas-fired generation by running when
available, he said.  IRENA will publish a report next week on the cost of
renewables compared with fossil fuels. Costs for some types of
solar panels have fallen by as much as 60 percent in two years,
Amin said. Small-scale hydropower is often the cheapest form of
energy available to many developing countries, according to a
draft version of the report seen by Bloomberg News.  Renewables Map  The agency will also present a Web-based map of where solar
and wind power can be most effective globally, taking account of
the sun’s strength and the availability of wind, and will be
expanded to cover other renewables, Amin said. The data will be
released at the start of IRENA’s annual assembly in Abu Dhabi,
where it’s based and where the  World Future Energy Summit  also
takes place.  Middle Eastern countries such as the United Arab Emirates
and Saudi Arabia are developing renewable energy to cut
emissions and reduce domestic consumption of oil that could
otherwise be exported. Abu Dhabi, the U.A.E. capital and holder
of about 6 percent of global crude reserves, won the right to
host IRENA in June 2009 after it embarked on a $22 billion
project to develop the carbon-free city Masdar and set a goal to
generate 7 percent of its power from renewable sources by 2020.  Saudi Solar  Saudi Arabia, the largest oil exporter, plans to attract
$109 billion in solar investments to generate a third of its
electricity by 2032, or about 41,000 megawatts. It currently has
about 3 megawatts of solar installations, trailing  Egypt ,
 Morocco , Tunisia,  Algeria  and the U.A.E., according to
researcher Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The country, which uses crude or fuel oil to produce power,
is losing “about $90 a barrel in opportunity cost for every
barrel they use at home,” Amin said. “With the declining cost
of renewable, and solar in particular, it makes absolute sense
for them to do large-scale on-grid solar in Saudi Arabia to
replace oil.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net . 