-- Shanghai to Double Bonded Warehouse Storage for Metals
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T07:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/shanghai-to-double-bonded-warehouse-storage-for-metals.html
Shanghai  will more than double its
so-called bonded warehouse space this year amid speculation the
world’s biggest harbor will host the first London Metal
Exchange-approved delivery point in China, the biggest user of
base metals.  Shanghai will add 80,000 to 90,000 square meters for metals
storage by the middle of this year to an existing 50,000 square
meters, said Eric Ni, a business development manager at Shanghai
Free Trade Zones United Development Co. Bonded warehouses are
exempt from tariffs and a value-added tax.  Increased space may boost trading volumes for metals after
record copper inventories forced warehouses to stack stocks
outdoors last year. It also reflects optimism that HK Exchanges
& Clearing Ltd.’s acquisition of the bourse in December will
clear the way for LME-approved facilities in Shanghai.  China ’s
warehouses aren’t allowed to be used for delivery for futures
products traded on overseas exchanges.  “The increase in area in 2014 may be even larger than this
year,” Ni said in an interview on Jan. 7. “Major market
participants have high hopes that the LME will be able to have
delivery warehouses in China in the next few years with the help
of the Hong Kong exchange.”  The LME has a network of more than 700 warehouses around
the world. Chinese buyers currently have to secure metals from
the closest locations in  Asia , such as Singapore and Busan,
 South Korea . Ni’s  company  is developing Yangshan port, one of
Shanghai’s three free-trade zones, where imports are placed in
bonded warehouses.  Copper Trader  Maike Investment Holding Group Co., China’s biggest copper
trader, has invested $100 million to build warehouses that can
store 600,000 tons of metals in Yangshan port, hoping to make
them LME-appointed warehouses, Chairman He Jinbi said in
November. Copper for three-month delivery on the LME traded at
$8,131.75 a ton at 2:58 p.m. in Shanghai.  In 2007, Shanghai Waigaoqiao Logistics Center Co., a unit
of the developer for the free-trade zone Waigaoqiao, submitted
an application to be the LME’s appointed warehouses. It failed
after the China Securities Regulatory Commission issued a
 circular  in 2008 prohibiting foreign futures exchanges from
having warehouses for commodity deliveries in the country,
citing risk management in the midst of the financial crisis. The
securities regulator didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  The rule didn’t deter the London bourse, which handles more
than 80 percent of base metals futures trade. In a letter to
shareholders last year, LME Chairman Brian Bender said a
takeover by HKEx would help raise the number of clients from
mainland China and open warehouses there. HKEx Chief Executive
Officer Charles Li said in October he was working to help expand
LME warehouses into China.  SHFE Futures  The Shanghai Futures Exchange, which trades copper and
aluminum futures, started to allow delivery of futures to bonded
warehouses from 2011 to facilitate physical flows. The bourse is
considering opening to foreign investors and setting up overseas
warehouses, then-Chairwoman Wang Lihua said in May.  China accounts more than 40 percent of global copper and
aluminum consumption. Trading volume of the SHFE totaled 365.33
million lots in 2012, while those on the LME climbed to a record
159.72 million contracts, data from the two exchanges showed.  “The area figures I mentioned refer to those with
strengthened foundations for heavy-metal storage,” Ni said.
“The total warehouse space is bigger than that, which will lead
to a surge this year and next year,” he added.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen Sun in Shanghai at 
 hsun30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  