-- Sidley, Bird & Bird, Jacoby & Meyers: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-01-10T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sidley-bird-bird-jacoby-meyers-business-of-law.html
The Blackstone Group’s general
counsel of advisory services and the chief compliance officer of
Blackstone Capital Partners, Joshua B. Rovine, has rejoined
Sidley Austin LLP’s pooled investment entities group as a
partner in  New York . He will also be a member of the firm-wide
investment funds, advisers and derivatives practice,
concentrating primarily on hedge fund and fund of funds
formation as well as investment adviser regulation and
compliance, the firm said. Rovine was a partner at Sidley from
1998 to 2002.  “The level of experience he has in this practice area
coupled with his 10 years of in-house tenure at one of the
leading alternative asset management companies in the world will
strengthen further the level of service that our firm will be
able to provide to clients,” Michael J. Schmidtberger, global
co-head of the investment funds, advisers and derivatives group
and managing partner of Sidley’s New York office said in a
statement.  While at Blackstone, Rovine was responsible for legal and
compliance matters including advising internal clients on
regulatory issues, implementing compliance programs for
registered investment advisers and broker-dealers and working on
the implementation of new business initiatives, the firm said.  At Sidley, Rovine’s practice will include advising clients
on compliance issues and the representation of managers in spin-
outs from financial institutions; buyers, sellers and other
participants in secondary/structured secondary transactions; and
institutional clients investing in, or co-investing alongside,
hedge and private equity funds. Sidley has approximately 1,700
lawyers in 18 offices worldwide.  Bird & Bird Hires Two Partners in London, Two in Paris  Bird & Bird LLP hired two new partners in its  London  office
and two partners in its Paris office.  International financial services lawyers Michael Brown and
Martin Sandler join in London. Brown is a solicitor-advocate
with 18 years’ experience of dispute resolution for banks and
financial institutions. He joins from  Jones Day . Sandler focuses
on regulatory and transactional work in financial services. He
was most recently head of U.K. legal at NYSE Euronext.  Alexandra Stocki and Anne-Charlotte Le-Bihan joined Bird &
Bird’s Paris office as partners. Stocki was previously with
Bredin Prat. Le-Bihan joins Bird & Bird’s international IP Group
from Gide Loyrette Nouel.  Stocki focuses on employment law and joins the firm’s
international HR services group which encompasses employment,
employee benefits and business immigration. She has 14 years’
experience in employment law.  Le-Bihan specializes in patents, trademarks, copyright,
design and advertising with particular expertise in patent
litigation.  Bird & Bird has over 900 lawyers in 23 offices across
Europe, the  Middle East  and  Asia .  McDermott Hires Partners in Washington and New York Offices  McDermott Will & Emery LLP hired two health-care lawyers,
Dale Van Demark and Jason B. Caron, as partners in the firm’s
 Washington , office. The two, from Epstein Becker Green PC, join
McDermott’s health industry advisory practice group.  Van Demark is a health-care transactional lawyer who
focuses on health industry mergers and acquisitions. Caron
represents health care and life sciences organizations in legal,
regulatory, reimbursement and policy matters.  The firm also announced this week that corporate lawyer
Robert H. Cohen has joined as a partner in the New York office.
Cohen, who joins from Greenberg Traurig LLP, has nearly 30 years
of experience representing issuers and underwriters on
corporate, M&A and financing transactions.  McDermott has more than 1,100 lawyers with 18 offices in
the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Davis Wright Hires Two Partners in San Francisco  Litigator Erica Wilson, who represents clients in complex
patent and other technology-related matters, has joined the IP
litigation practice at Davis Wright Tremaine LLC. Wilson, who
was previously at Goodwin Procter LLP, joins the firm as a
partner in the  San Francisco  office.  Don Buder, a transaction lawyer in the food, beverage, and
restaurant industries, has also joined the San Francisco office
of Davis Wright as a partner. Buder was previously a co-founder
and managing partner of MBV Law, a 14-attorney transaction and
litigation firm in San Francisco started in 1985.  Davis Wright has about 500 lawyers in nine offices in the
U.S. and  Shanghai .  DLA Piper Hires New Lawyers in Philadelphia, L.A. Offices  DLA Piper LLP hired Courtney Gilligan Saleski as a partner
in the firm’s litigation practice in Philadelphia. She was
previously an assistant U.S. attorney in the  District of
Columbia , where she led investigations and prosecutions,
focusing primarily on health-care fraud, procurement fraud,
 securities fraud  and public corruption matters.  Former  Los Angeles  Deputy Mayor Linda Bernhardt also joined
in Los Angeles as senior adviser to the California Real Estate,
Land Use, Development and Governmental Affairs practices.
Bernhardt joins DLA Piper from Greenberg Traurig LLP, where she
served as co-head of the firm’s California Land Development
Practice Group and head of the Southern California Government
Affairs Practice. Bernhardt was previously with Loeb and Loeb
LLP, where she served as head of the Land Development and
Regulatory Affairs Practice, the firm said.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers located in more than 30
countries throughout the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe and the
Middle East.  New York Lawyers Moves: Kirkpatrick, Carter Ledyard, Locke Lord  Several more lawyers have moved firms this week in New
York, including several who are leaving their own firms to join
up with larger law firms.  Kilpatrick Townsend & Stockton LLP announced that Guy N. Molinari has joined the firm’s New York office. Molinari will be
a partner on the mergers and acquisitions and securities team
within the firm’s corporate, finance and real estate department.  Molinari has 25 years at a variety of firms. For the past
five years, he operated his own firm where he provided general
corporate advice to investors in distressed or developing
businesses. He has also served for two years as general counsel
of next generation wind turbine technology company Northern
Power Systems, Inc., and as general counsel for multistrategy
investment funds. For eight years, he was with Heller Ehrman LLP
in New York  Carter Ledyard & Milburn LLP announced that Pamela Mann has
joined the firm in New York as partner in the trusts and estates
department and head of its tax-exempt organizations group. Mann
joins, along with an associate, from the Mann Legal Group, which
she founded in 1996.  Michael Kushner, formerly of Moses & Singer LLP, has joined
Locke Lord LLP’s New York office as a partner in the tax
practice, bringing with him more than 25 years of experience in
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, employee benefits and
federal tax law matters.  News  Khuzami Says He Will Step Down as SEC’s Top Enforcement Cop  Robert Khuzami , the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement chief who led the agency’s pursuit of financial
crime after the credit crisis, said he would step down.  Khuzami said in a memo yesterday announcing his departure
that he would remain at the agency for about two weeks. SEC
Chairman Elisse Walter hasn’t named a successor.  In a statement, Walter said his “leadership and bold ideas
transformed and reinvigorated the enforcement program.”  Walter’s predecessor,  Mary Schapiro , hired Khuzami shortly
after she was appointed in 2009 to help restore the agency’s
image after it was battered for missing Bernard L. Madoff’s
Ponzi scheme. Khuzami, 56, carried out the biggest shakeup in
the enforcement unit’s history, eliminating management layers,
expanding investigators’ powers and creating five specialized
units to police  Wall Street .  His tenure has seen criticism from lawmakers, judges,
investors and at least one current commissioner who have argued
the agency hasn’t been aggressive enough in holding top
executives accountable for practices that led to a taxpayer
bailout of the banking industry.  Under Khuzami, the SEC filed more than 130 cases related to
the financial meltdown, including 57 actions against senior
corporate officers. His investigators have taken aim at lenders
who generated subprime mortgages as well as Wall Street traders
and investment banks that bundled the home loans for investors.  He oversaw some of the biggest settlements in SEC history.
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  agreed in July 2010 to pay $550 million
over claims it misled investors about a mortgage-linked
investment; Citigroup reached a $285 million settlement and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  forfeited $154 million for their roles in
similar deals.  A former federal prosecutor in New York who went on to work
as a top lawyer at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Khuzami was a strong
defender of the SEC’s enforcement record and argued it brought
as many cases as the law allowed. He also worked as an associate
at Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP earlier in his career.  For more, click here.  Ex-OCC Chief Counsel Williams Joining Promontory Financial Group  Julie Williams, a longtime federal regulator who helped
banks argue against state oversight, is joining Promontory
Financial Group LLC, a Washington-based consulting firm that
advises financial-services companies.  Williams stepped down Sept. 30 as chief counsel with the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency after 19 years with
the agency including two stints as acting comptroller. She will
become a managing director and director of advisory practice at
Promontory, which is led by former Comptroller of the Currency
Eugene Ludwig.  “Almost 20 years ago, I asked Julie to be chief counsel at
the OCC, and it was clearly one of the wisest decisions I made
as comptroller,” Ludwig said yesterday in a memo to staff.
“Julie has been at the center of virtually every important
bank-regulatory development in the past 20 years, and it is
difficult to overstate her contributions to the agency and its
culture.”  “Promontory’s role is broader and has more facets to it
than legal interpretation, and that was appealing to me,”
Williams said yesterday in an interview. “The financial
services firms are facing incredible challenges, and so being in
a position at Promontory where I can help provide a holistic
approach to problem-solving was appealing to me.”  Before joining the agency, she worked for the Federal Home
Loan Bank Board, the Office of Thrift Supervision and as a
Washington attorney with a predecessor of law firm Fried, Frank,
Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP.  Giffords Anti-Gun Effort Given $1 Million by Texas Trial Lawyers  Steve and Amber Mostyn, wealthy Texas trial attorneys, said
yesterday that they are giving $1 million to help start the gun-
control advocacy group formed by former  Arizona  Representative
 Gabrielle Giffords  and her husband, astronaut  Mark Kelly .  Steve Mostyn, one of the top contributors to a super
political action committee that helped President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election effort, is  listed as treasurer  of Giffords’s new
super-PAC, Americans for Responsible Solutions. Mostyn said the
group will have a nonprofit wing, which will be used to conduct
a public education campaign.  Mostyn said the super-PAC will counter the political
contributions of the  National Rifle Association , which is how
he’s pitching it to other big Democratic donors.  “It’s time to stop the NRA from bullying common sense out
of the discussion,” he said in an interview. “There are more
options than just ‘guns or no guns.’”  Mostyn, 41 and a Houston resident, said he owns many guns
and has a shooting range on his ranch in west Texas.  Mostyn said he believes the super-PAC will be able to
compete with the NRA’s political giving. Federal Election
Commission records show that the NRA’s Political Victory Fund
spent $16 million in the two years leading to the Nov. 6
election. An NRA nonprofit affiliate, the Institute for
Legislative Action, made another $7.5 million in independent
expenditures such as direct mail and ads, to help NRA-friendly
candidates, according to the Center for Responsive Politics,
based in Washington.  Giffords, a Democrat, was wounded in a 2011 shooting in
Tucson that killed six others.  “Achieving reform to reduce gun violence and prevent mass
shootings will mean matching gun lobbyists in their reach and
resources,” Giffords and Kelly wrote in a USA Today opinion
piece published Jan. 8, the second anniversary of the Arizona
shooting.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Jacoby & Meyers Wins Round in Dispute on Nonlawyer Investors  Jacoby & Meyers , the discount law firm with storefront
offices across the U.S., won an appeals court ruling reinstating
its legal attack on a New York statute barring nonlawyers from
owning interests in law firms.  Jacoby & Meyers, which wants capital to expand into
communities with working-class and immigrant families, has asked
federal courts in  New Jersey  and  Connecticut  as well as New York
to throw out such laws. A judge last year dismissed the New York
case citing technical grounds.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York yesterday reinstated
the suit and returned it to the trial court.  Jacoby & Meyers has said it wants to add new legal
challenges in its suit, which the appeals court said the firm
may do. The court didn’t rule on the “interesting theoretical
issues” raised by the case.  Three directors of a small New York bank, including one who
also sells new and used Mercedes-Benzes, have expressed interest
in investing in Jacoby & Meyers, the firm said in court papers.  The case is Jacoby & Meyers v. Presiding Judges, 12-1377,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  