-- Sleeping Pill Doses Are Cut for Women
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-01-10T21:26:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sleeping-pill-doses-are-cut-for-women.html
Makers of widely used sleep aids
such as  Sanofi (SAN) ’s Ambien have been told to reduce by half the
recommended doses for women after U.S. regulators found
lingering effects of the drugs in the morning hours.  Sleeping pills containing the ingredient zolpidem stay in
the body, particularly women’s bodies, longer than previously
thought and can impair activities such as driving, the Food and
Drug Administration said today in a  statement . The decision was
based partly on driving simulation studies for  Transcept
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (TSPT) ’s lower-dose zolpidem drug Intermezzo
approved in November 2011, the FDA said.  Recommended doses will be cut in half to 5 milligrams for
women who take immediate-release products and to 6.25 milligrams
for women on extended-release formulations. Labels on the drugs,
of which there were 39 million prescriptions dispensed in 2011,
will suggest doctors consider lower doses for men as well.  “FDA urges health care professionals to caution all
patients (men and women) who use these zolpidem products about
the risks of next-morning impairment for activities that require
complete mental alertness, including driving,” the agency said
in the statement.  Meda, NovaDel  Other zolpidem-containing drugs include Meda
Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s Edluar and  NovaDel Pharma Inc. (NVDL) ’s
Zolpimist. Ambien and Ambien CR also come in generic versions.
There are no labeling changes needed for Intermezzo.  “We agree that individuals taking zolpidem should always
talk to their doctor about the most appropriate dose,” Jack Cox, a Sanofi spokesman, said in an e-mail today. He said the
Paris-based company has been in contact with the FDA about
Ambien dosing and that there is “significant clinical data
demonstrating the safety and efficacy” of the drug, which was
approved in the U.S. in 1992.  Women make up 63 percent of patients taking zolpidem-
containing drugs, Ellis Unger, director of the FDA’s Office of
Drug Evaluation I in the Center for Drug Evaluation and
Research, said in a telephone interview.  The FDA is continuing to evaluate the risk of decreased
mental alertness with other sleep drugs, including over-the-
counter treatments, the agency said in the statement.  Merck & Co. (MRK)  is working on suvorexant, part of a potential
new class of treatments known as orexin receptor antagonists
that aim to have fewer side effects, including driving troubles.  The FDA has told companies that reviewers will require
driving studies as part of any new applications for sleep drugs,
Unger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  