-- Spain Said to Consider Removing Seniority of Region Fund
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2013-01-10T14:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/spain-said-to-consider-removing-seniority-of-region-rescue-fund.html
The Spanish government may remove a
clause from its bailout fund for cash-strapped regions that
gives it first claim on their revenue, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The move is intended to placate creditors who have told
officials that the introduction of the regional bailout fund in
July 2012 changed the terms of their bond holdings and gave them
the right to call in the debts, one of the people said.
Legislation may be approved as early as this month to clarify
seniority, said the two people who asked not to be named because
the talks are private.  With no change, holders of around 118 billion euros ($154
billion) of debt raised by the nine regions benefiting from the
bailout fund would rank behind the Madrid-based Treasury for
repayment. The backstop was extended to 2013 in December with a
23 billion-euro budget, almost twice the amount used last year.  “It may help to reopen the market for regions at some
point,” said Ramon Nieto, a  fund manager  at Geroa EPSV Fondos
in San Sebastian, Spain, which oversees 1.2 billion euros,
including bonds from Spanish regions. “On the other hand, it
could eventually increase the tensions between the central
government and regions, because the state needs to get the loans
paid anyway.”  Creditor Protection  The legislation being drafted would protect all creditors
from subordination in the event of default by regions and not
only multilateral financial institutions as is currently the
case, one of the people said. A spokesman for the Budget
Ministry declined to comment.  The threat of subordination makes it more expensive for
local governments to sell debt. Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s
pledge to keep funds flowing to the regions has already led the
Treasury to plan a 24 percent increase in net issuance this year
after overshooting its target by 55 percent in 2012.  One-third of its planned 71 billion-euro  net debt issuance 
is earmarked for the bailout fund, known as the FLA. The Spanish
regions had 167 billion euros of long-term debt in the first
quarter, with 102 billion euros of bank loans and the remainder
mostly bonds, central bank  data  show.  The nine regions that rely on the FLA for funding including
Catalonia, Andalucia, Valencia, Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia and
the Canary and Balearic Islands, generate more than a half of
 Spain ’s gross domestic product, according to the National
Statics Institute data.  Rajoy has kept the regions on a drip, organizing over 50
billion euros of funding through loans, transfers and special
funds including the FLA to enable them to pay suppliers and
redeem bonds as most were shut out of  capital markets .  The removal of seniority would increase the risk of a
sovereign credit-rating downgrade, said  Alberto Gallo , head of
macro credit research in  London  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc.  “They help the regions and banks but they increase
liabilities at a sovereign level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  