-- Stada Says Strength of Russian Unit May Attract Bids
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-01-11T17:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/stada-board-would-consider-high-takeover-offer.html
Stada Arzneimittel AG (SAZ) , the German
generic-drug maker that spent more than 250 million euros ($331
million) on acquisitions last year, said it expects to draw
takeover offers from rivals seeking to expand in Europe.  “In Europe, we have a sweet spot in  Russia ” and “we are
doing a very good job” in businesses including consumer health
care, Markus Metzger, the Bad Vilbel, Germany-based company’s
director of investor relations, said yesterday at the JPMorgan
Chase & Co. health-care conference in San Francisco. Companies
that don’t have those businesses in Europe “may look at buying
us,” he said.  Stada may be a target of  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries
Ltd. (SUNP) ,  India ’s largest drugmaker by market value, which was
considering acquisitions in  Europe , including the German
drugmaker, people familiar with the matter said in August. Sun,
maker of generic Flomax and Plavix, seeks to add products and
extend its geographical reach, Chairman Israel Makov said in a
Dec. 31 interview.  Metzger declined to comment specifically on Sun’s potential
interest or on other possible acquirers.  “It’s finally a matter of price,” Metzger said during a
question-and-answer session at the conference. “It’s not in our
hands, we have a 100 percent free float,” he said.  Company Value  Stada would be worth about 3.7 billion euros, based on the
10.3 times earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization median price of eight generic drugmaker
acquisitions over the past three years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The drugmaker probably had EBITDA of 357
million euros in the year ended Dec. 31, based on the average of
22 analyst estimates gathered by Bloomberg.  Stada rose 0.7 percent to close at 25.79 euros in Frankfurt
trading, giving the company a market value of 1.5 billion euros.  Stada’s share price is “depressed” partly because of the
 European debt crisis  and past writedowns on its Serbian
business, Metzger said.  “We are still looking cheap,” Metzger said. “We had some
negatives. Credibility is slowly coming back. We are more
stabilized in Serbia right now.”  Metzger declined to specify a target price for the company
and said it was “up to investment bankers” to gauge the value.  “If anyone pays 50 euros, it’s going to be difficult to
say no,” he said, referring to a per-share price.  Serbian Writedown  Stada would also consider merging with a similar-sized
branded or biotechnology drugmaker, Chief Executive Officer
Hartmut Retzlaff said in October 2011. The acquisition of the
similar-sized competitors Ratiopharm GmbH and  Actavis Group hf 
have widened the gap between Stada and generic-drug industry
leaders.  Stada bought  Serbia ’s Hemofarm Koncern AD in 2006 for 480
million euros, its biggest acquisition and part of a push to
shift manufacturing capacity as well as sales into eastern
Europe. It took a 96.9 million-euro writedown before taxes in
the third quarter of 2011 for unpaid bills there.  The company is proceeding with its expansion and is on
track to meet its 2014 targets, Metzger told investors yesterday
at the conference. It could spend as much as 150 million euros
in 2013 for smaller deals to grow in areas such as consumer
health care, he said.  “Our financial flexibility is somewhat limited, but on a
smaller scale we are still looking out for good opportunities in
OTC and maybe for joint ventures in some of the  emerging
markets ,” he said.  Stada would like to expand in countries such as  Mexico ,
 Argentina  and is “looking at opportunities in  China ,  Thailand 
and other Asian countries,” Metzger said.  “It’s also very tempting to add new products to our
Russian platform,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  