-- Sun Life, Khazanah Said to Near CIMB Aviva Assurance Acquisition
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2013-01-10T03:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/sun-life-khazanah-said-to-near-cimb-aviva-assurance-acquisition.html
Sun Life Financial Inc. (SLF)  and Khazanah
Nasional Bhd. are in final talks to buy the Malaysian insurance
joint venture of  CIMB (CIMB)  Group Holdings Bhd. and  Aviva (AV/)  Plc, six
people with knowledge of the matter said.  The sale may value CIMB Aviva Assurance at more than 1
billion ringgit ($329 million), two people said, asking not to
be identified as the information is private. CIMB,  Malaysia ’s
second-largest lender, owns 51 percent of the venture and
London-based Aviva holds the rest.  Final details of the deal, including the price and the
structure, are still being discussed and CIMB may keep a small
stake in the joint venture, the people said. Khazanah is
Malaysia’s state investment company.  Spokesmen at CIMB, Khazanah, Aviva and Sun Life declined to
comment on the sale process. Prudential Plc and  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  had also made offers to buy the business from
CIMB and Aviva, people with knowledge of the bids said in
November.  CIMB Aviva may fetch a valuation similar to the 2.2 times
book value that AIA Group Ltd. paid for ING Groep NV’s Malaysian
insurance business in a recent deal, two of the people said. AIA
agreed to pay 1.3 billion euros ($1.7 billion) for the unit in
October, describing Malaysia as one of Southeast Asia’s fastest-
growing life assurance markets.  CIMB Aviva reported profit of 49.7 million ringgit in the
six months through June, according to its  website .  Khazanah is the largest shareholder in Kuala Lumpur-based
CIMB, with 29.9 percent of the bank, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Sun Life and CIMB operate an insurance joint venture in
 Indonesia  that was started in 2009.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  