-- Swansea Seizes on Errors to Beat Chelsea in League Cup Semifinal
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-01-10T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/swansea-seizes-on-errors-to-beat-chelsea-in-league-cup-semifinal.html
Swansea beat Chelsea 2-0 to open
their English League Cup soccer semifinal, getting both goals
off mistakes by Blues defender Branislav Ivanovic.  Miguel Michu and Danny Graham scored last night at  Stamford 
Bridge in west  London  to give Swansea the advantage going to the
return match Jan. 23 in  Wales . The series winner advances to the
final of  England ’s second-tier club competition Feb. 24 at
Wembley Stadium in London.  “There is still a mountain to climb,” Swans manager
Michael Laudrup told Sky Sports. “But I am most happy about
going into the second leg as home with a possibility to play a
final at Wembley.”  Chelsea had 64 percent possession and a 24-5 advantage in
shots, though was unable to put the ball past visiting
goalkeeper Gerhard Tremmel as it fell to a first home loss
against Swansea since 1925.  The Swans, seeking a first major trophy in the club’s 100-
year history, took the lead in the 39th minute as Ivanovic lost
control of a pass from goalkeeper Ross Turnbull. Jonathan de
Guzman laid off the ball for Michu, who curled a shot inside the
left post from the edge of the area.  After Chelsea continued to press in the second half without
scoring, interim manager Rafael Benitez brought on midfielder
Frank Lampard and striker Demba Ba in latter stages.  Ba had two chances immediately after entering, the first
saved by Tremmel and the second headed wide. Chelsea then had a
penalty claim in injury time as Ba went down after he and
Tremmel contested a loose ball, though the referee gave the
striker a yellow card for diving.  Second Goal  Graham made it 2-0 moments later as he picked up Ivanovic’s
intended backpass to Turnbull, went past the goalkeeper and put
the ball into the empty net.  Swansea has reached the League Cup semifinal for the first
time, while Chelsea is seeking its fifth title.  “If we do get to Wembley it will be massive for
everyone,” Swansea defender Ashley Williams said. “We just
wanted to get a result and bring them back to our place and try
and finish the job.”  Bradford, which plays in England’s fourth tier, takes a 3-1
lead over Aston Villa into the second game of that semifinal on
Jan. 22. Victory in the series would make Bradford the first
team from below the second level to reach the final since Villa
achieved the feat as a third-division team in 1970-71, according
to Infostrada Sports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 