-- Swatch 2012 Gross Revenue Beats Estimates on Asia
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2013-01-10T08:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/swatch-2012-gross-revenue-beats-estimates-on-asian-spending.html
Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the biggest maker
of Swiss watches, reported higher 2012 revenue as customers in
China and elsewhere bought more Omega and Longines timepieces,
and said it expects “healthy growth” this year.  Gross revenue climbed 14 percent to 8.14 billion Swiss
francs ($8.79 billion), the Biel, Switzerland-based company said
today in an e-mailed statement. That beat an average estimate of
8.05 billion francs by nine analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Swatch said it expects to report “good” operating profit and
net income for 2012, and that the first days of January indicate
“positive growth” in the year.  Chinese and other Asian tourists who visit  Europe  are
fueling growth in the luxury-watch market even as demand in
 China  itself eases amid a slowdown in the local economy.
Purchasing watches abroad lets Chinese consumers sidestep three
layers of taxes imposed on timepieces in China.  “The figures probably indicate that Christmas demand was
pretty good, pointing to a recovery in the greater China region,
as well as ongoing strength from Chinese tourists in Europe,”
said Jon Cox, head of Swiss research at Kepler Capital Markets.  Swatch shares declined 1.6 percent to 492 francs at 9:30
a.m. in Zurich trading. The stock has gained 6.7 percent this
year.  “It has had a very strong run,” said Cox “There’s
probably limited room for estimate upgrades in the short term.”  ’Convincing Sales’  Revenue at Swatch’s watch and jewelry business increased 16
percent, while sales at its production division, which sells
parts to other watchmakers, gained 10 percent. The maker of
Blancpain and Certina watches said it had double-digit growth
rates for almost all brands, “notably outside  Greater China ”
and that it saw “conspicuous” market-share gains.  “Overall, a convincing sales statement especially
concerning the key division watches and jewelry,” Patrick Hasenboehler, an analyst at Sarasin, wrote in a research note.
The results are “particularly positive as the growth of the
Swiss watch exports to Swatch Group’s key markets China and Hong
Kong were below average in the period January to November.”  Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek told Le Temps last month
revenue may increase 5 percent to 7 percent in 2013. The U.S.
market was “doing well” and demand in Europe was holding up
“well,” Hayek said in an interview with the Swiss newspaper.  China and  Hong Kong  make up the biggest market for Swiss
timepieces, accounting for 30 percent of exports of the
country’s roughly 200 brands in 2011, according to the
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry.  Swatch will report key 2012 figures on Feb. 21 at the
latest, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  