-- Swiss Stocks Are Little Changed as ECB Holds Rate
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-01-10T17:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/swiss-stocks-are-little-changed-before-ecb-meeting.html
Swiss stocks were little changed
near a four-year high as the  European Central Bank  left its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed.  Temenos (TEMN)  Group AG advanced
5.2 percent after Morgan Stanley recommended buying the banking-
software maker’s shares. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA fell as
U.S. rival Tiffany & Co. said it sees profit at the low end of
its forecast.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  dropped 0.1 percent to 7,143.73 at
the close in Zurich. The gauge rallied 3.5 percent last week as
U.S. lawmakers approved a compromise budget that avoided most
scheduled deficit-reduction measures. The broader Swiss
Performance Index fell 0.1 percent today.  “The start to the year has been really strong,” said
Christian Zogg, who manages about $540 million as head of equity
and fixed income at LLB Asset Management AG in Vaduz,
Liechtenstein. “We’re seeing investors taking a breather. I
don’t think the advance will go on like this, though stocks
still have a good risk premium.”  The number of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 67 percent higher than the average of the past 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today left the
benchmark rate at a record low of 0.75 percent, as predicted by
50 out of 55 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. Speaking in
Frankfurt today, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said the euro-area
economy will slowly return to health in 2013 as the region’s
bond markets stabilize after three years of turmoil.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., a Labor Department report showed that more
Americans than forecast filed applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week.  Jobless claims  increased to 371,000 in the
week ended Jan. 5, from a revised 367,000 the previous week. The
 median  forecast of 48 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called
for a drop to 365,000.  Credit Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, gained
0.5 percent to 25.08 Swiss francs after agreeing to sell its
exchange-traded funds unit to BlackRock Inc. Credit Suisse
didn’t disclose the terms of the deal.  Temenos jumped 5.2 percent to 18.30 francs as Morgan
Stanley raised the stock to overweight from equal weight,
meaning investors should buy the shares.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  advanced 1.4 percent to 47.15 francs, rising
for a sixth day. That’s the stock’s longest winning streak since
September.  Richemont, the owner of the Cartier brand, slid 2.1 percent
to 76 francs, and  Swatch (UHR)  Group AG, the largest maker of Swiss
watches, declined 0.8 percent to 495.60 francs. Tiffany, the
world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer, said full-year
earnings will be at the low end of its forecast after holiday
sales growth slowed in the Americas and Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  