-- Swiss Banks Welcome Rejection of Germany Tax Accord, Study Shows
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2013-01-10T12:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/swiss-banks-welcome-rejection-of-germany-tax-accord-study-shows.html
Swiss banks welcome the collapse of
an accord with  Germany  that would have imposed new taxes on
German clients in a bid to end a dispute over  tax evasion , Ernst
& Young said.  About 72 percent of 120 Swiss banks surveyed see the demise
of the agreement as positive, Ernst & Young said in a report
today.  It’s “a remarkable finding,” Patrick Schwaller, a partner
at Ernst & Young in Zurich, said in an e-mailed statement. Banks
will be able “to avoid the costs of implementation and the
resulting immediate outflow of client assets,” he said.  The accord was blocked by opposition lawmakers in Germany’s
upper house of the Parliament in November, who said it contained
too many loopholes for tax evaders. The collapse of the deal,
following the ratification of similar agreements with the U.K.
and  Austria , was a setback as it would have kept client
identities secret, the  Swiss Bankers Association , which
represents more than 300 banks, said at the time.  Swiss banks are trying to stem withdrawals by European
customers concerned about a widening hunt for tax dodgers after
banking secrecy started to crumble when the U.S. sued UBS AG
four years ago.  Only 26 percent of banks surveyed expect net client
outflows while new withholding tax deals are introduced, with
new money helping to compensate for withdrawals.  In the absence of the accord, most banks aren’t introducing
new due diligence measures regarding the tax status of German
customers, Ernst & Young said.  Still, compliance and tax transparency are among the three
most important topics for bank management in the next six to 12
months, the survey found. Implementing new  capital requirements 
linked to international standards known as Basel III is also
near the top of agenda for Swiss banks, Ernst & Young said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  