-- U.K. Announces Super-Jail Plan as Six Prisons to Close
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-10T14:14:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-k-announces-super-jail-plan-as-six-prisons-to-close.html
U.K. Justice Secretary Chris Grayling announced plans for a new super-prison holding as many
as 2,000 inmates, saying six smaller jails will close in a drive
to save 63 million pounds ($101 million) a year.  The Justice Ministry will look at whether to build the new
prison in  London , northwest  England  or north Wales. It will also
construct four new accommodation blocks at existing larger jails
to hold as many as 1,260 extra criminals.  “We have to bring down the cost of our prison system, much
of which is old and expensive,” Grayling, who favors privately
run jails, said in an e-mailed statement today. “But I never
want the courts to be in a position where they cannot send a
criminal to prison because there is no place available. So we
have to move as fast as we can to replace the older parts of our
prison system.”  The announcements follow the opening of Oakwood prison,
run by  G4S Plc (GFS) , the world’s largest security company, near
Wolverhampton in central England last year. The jail holds
prisoners at an annual cost of 13,200 pounds per place -- less
than half the average of some other prisons, especially in
facilities that are more than a century old.  Statistics released by the ministry last week showed there
were 83,632 prisoners in England and Wales. Ministry forecasts
show the prison population could hit 90,900 by 2018.  In 2009, the previous Labour administration abandoned plans
to build three super-jails, known as “titans,” after criticism
from opposition parties and penal-reform groups. The project,
which would have cost 1.2 billion pounds and housed as many as
2,500 prisoners in each prison, was scrapped in favor of five
new smaller jails, each holding 1,500 inmates.  ‘Gigantic Mistake’  “Closing prisons and reducing prison numbers offers major
social and economic gains, but it would be a gigantic mistake if
the justice secretary were to revive the discredited idea of
titans and pour taxpayers’ money down the prison-building drain,
when the coalition government could invest in crime prevention,
health-care and community solutions to crime,” Juliet Lyon,
director of the  Prison Reform Trust , said in an e-mail.  The Public and Commercial Services union, which represents
270,000 workers, said the decision to close six prisons and
part-close three other facilities was “irresponsible” and job
losses would hit local economies.  The “closures are unnecessary, irresponsible and amount to
more privatization by stealth,” PCS General Secretary  Mark Serwotka  said in an e-mailed statement. “The fact this is
happening without any public debate or discussion ought to be a
national scandal and we urgently need an independent review to
look at the impact of prison privatization on our communities,
staff and prisoners.”  G4S was stripped of a contract to run another prison --
Wolds in Yorkshire -- in November, and the jail is being
returned to the public sector. Three remaining bidders, Sodexo,
Serco Group Plc and MTC/Amey, are still in competition to run
Northumberland prison and another group of jails in Yorkshire --
Lindholme, Hatfield and Moorland -- with contracts to be awarded
early this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  