-- U.K. Inflation Bonds Surge on Index as Pound Falls Versus Euro
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2013-01-10T16:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-k-inflation-bonds-surge-on-rpi-as-pound-advances-before-boe.html
U.K. inflation-linked bonds
advanced, pushing 10-year yields to an all-time low, after the
 Office for National Statistics  said it will maintain its current
formula for calculating the retail  price index .  The pound fell against the euro as the  Bank of England  kept
its benchmark  interest rate  at a  record-low  0.5 percent and its
asset-purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds ($602 billion). The
 European Central Bank  also left interest rates unchanged. Ten-
year yields on the inflation-protected securities rose to a six-
month high last week on concern the ONS would change the index’s
calculation, potentially denting returns. Ten-year gilts fell
for the first time in four days.  “There’s no breach of contract from a legal or financial
perspective and that is good for confidence in  Great Britain  as
a place to do business,”  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director
at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Munich, said about the
statistics office’s decision in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse” with Francine Lacqua and  Guy Johnson .
“A change of the contract could have consequences, obviously,
as today’s price action suggests.”  The U.K. 10-year  inflation-linked yield  tumbled to a
record-low minus 0.99 percent. The rate was 34 basis points, or
0.34 percentage point, lower at minus 0.97 percent at 4:40 p.m.
 London  time. A negative yield means investors buying the
securities will receive payments below the retail price index if
they are held to maturity.  The  10-year gilt  yield climbed seven basis points to 2.09
percent, after falling 10 basis points over the previous three
days. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 dropped 0.59,
or 5.90 pounds per 1,000-pound face amount, to 97.01.  Central Bank  Sterling weakened 0.6 percent to 82 pence per euro, after
depreciating to 82.07 pence, the weakest level since Dec. 28.
The pound gained 0.6 percent to $1.6116 after the Bank of
England’s interest-rate decision. It fell to $1.5993 yesterday,
the lowest level since Nov. 30.  “Inaction was widely expected” from the Bank of England,
said  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist at HSBC Holdings Plc in
London. “The mood on the currency has been a bit heavy of late
and I suspect the market will shrug its shoulders and test for a
little more pound weakness.”  The ECB kept its main refinancing rate at a record-low 0.75
percent, as forecast by 50 of 55 economists surveyed by
 Bloomberg News . Five had predicted a cut to 0.5 percent.  Unanimous Decision  The euro-area economy should gradually recover and the
decision to refrain from cutting rates was unanimous, ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said at a news conference in Frankfurt
afterwards.  “Draghi is presenting a more hawkish tone than the market
was anticipating,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge fund
sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in London. “The fact that
the euro is outperforming the pound tells me this is blanket-
coverage euro buying.”  The U.K. currency has fallen 0.6 percent in the past week,
the third-worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen
dropped 1.9 percent and the dollar lost 0.7 percent.  U.K. inflation-linked bonds, which pay investors based on
changes in the retail-price index, had underperformed gilts this
month before today’s ONS decision amid concern adjustments to
the retail-price gauge would reduce returns.  Index-linked securities handed investors a 3 percent loss
this year through yesterday, after making a 0.8 percent return
in 2012, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. Conventional gilts lost 1.4 percent in 2013. They
returned 2.8 percent last year.  Removes Uncertainty  “Index-linked gilts should rally on the back of this”
decision from the statistics office, said  Elisabeth Afseth , a
fixed-income analyst at Investec Bank Plc in London. “It’s good
in that it takes away all the uncertainty but it’s also a
recognition that they aren’t fiddling with the index for the
sake of lowering it, so on a reputational side for the U.K.
that’s also good.”  The U.K. 10-year break-even rate, the difference in yield
between conventional gilts and inflation-protected securities,
had its biggest intraday gain since Bloomberg began collecting
the data in 1992, widening as much as 40 basis points to 306
basis points.  The statistics office will develop a new inflation index
known as RPIJ to adjust the measurement of clothing prices in
the RPI, it said in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  