-- U.K.’s Hayes Rejects CO2 Goal Sought by Lawmaker Yeo
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-01-10T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-k-s-hayes-rejects-co2-goal-sought-by-lawmaker-yeo.html
U.K. Energy Minister  John Hayes 
rejected a call by fellow Conservative lawmaker  Tim Yeo  to
include a decarbonization target for the power industry in the
Energy Bill being debated by Parliament.  Yeo, chairman of Parliament’s Energy and Climate Change
Committee advising the government on legislation, said in a Dec.
17 interview that he’ll seek to amend the bill to call for
electricity sector emissions to be capped at 100 grams of carbon
dioxide a kilowatt-hour by 2030.  “The select committees are there to help us improve
legislation, they are not there to govern,” Hayes said today in
an interview in “The House” magazine, which is distributed to
lawmakers. The government plans to set a target in 2016 rather
than now, he said.  The opposing positions lay the ground for a clash as the
legislation works its way through Parliament. At a debate on
Dec. 19, Labour leader  Ed Miliband  and the  Green Party ’s only
lawmaker, Caroline Lucas, sought to stall the bill until a
decarbonization target is included. Yeo plans to propose an
amendment at a later stage in the legislative process.  The bill is designed to stimulate the 110 billion pounds
($178 billion) of investments the government estimates is needed
to replace retiring power stations and upgrade the electricity
grid by 2020.  In his interview, Hayes also said he:  -Expects the coalition government of Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats to work together on the bill.  -Finds scrapping shale gas exploration in the U.K. would be
“peculiar,” even if there’s only a “modest” view of its
potential.  -Thinks forcing energy companies to switch consumers from
one tariff to another in some cases may be “contentious.”  -Reiterates that decisions on building wind farms and
nuclear power stations should take into account the “community
benefit” they bring to the local population.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  