-- U.K. Stocks Little Changed as BOE Holds Benchmark Rate
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-01-10T16:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-k-stocks-little-changed-before-ecb-boe-decisions.html
U.K. stocks  closed little changed,
with the benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  trading at the highest level
since May 2008, as the Bank of England and  European Central Bank 
kept their benchmark  interest rates  at record lows.  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  dropped after missing quarterly
sales estimates.  Tesco Plc (TSCO)  advanced 1.8 percent after the
company said sales growth was the strongest since 2010.  Bunzl
Plc (BNZL)  rose 3.4 percent after announcing three acquisitions.  The FTSE 100 Index added 2.86 points, less than 0.1
percent, to 6,101.51 in London, erasing an earlier gain of as
much as 0.3 percent. The equity benchmark rallied 2.8 percent
last week, reaching its highest level since February 2011, as
the  U.S. Congress  agreed on a compromise budget, avoiding
automatic deficit-reduction measures. The broader FTSE All-Share
Index also climbed less than 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s
ISEQ Index decreased 0.2 percent.  “What the central banks are doing or will do is going to
be significant,” Daniel Morris, global strategist at JPMorgan
Asset Management in London, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “It’s actually somewhat a bit comforting that the
ECB and even the  Bank of England  are stepping back a bit, and
letting the medicine hopefully have its effect and see how
things respond before trying to look for other unorthodox
measures.”  Stimulus Target  Economic risks remain “on the downside” and inflation
risks are broadly balanced, Draghi said in Frankfurt after the
first ECB meeting this year.  Earlier, ECB policy makers kept the benchmark interest rate
at a record low of 0.75 percent. The decision was unanimous and
there was no request to have a rate cut, Draghi said. Fifty of
the 55 economists in a Bloomberg survey had predicted the
decision.  Bank of England policy makers refrained from adding further
stimulus to the U.K. economy, as Governor  Mervyn King  and the
Monetary Policy Committee kept the  target  for quantitative
easing at 375 billion pounds ($604 billion). The central bank
also held its interest rate at a record-low 0.5 percent, in line
with economists’ predictions.  The BOE halted bond purchases in November and is relying on
its so-called Funding for Lending program to aid the recovery.  In  China , exports rose more than forecast last month.
Overseas shipments increased 14.1 percent in December from a
year earlier, customs administration data showed. That surpassed
the 5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 40
economists.  Stock Valuations  FTSE 100 companies are trading at 15.6 times reported
earnings, the highest since December 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The number of shares changing hands in
FTSE 100 companies today was 40 percent more than the average of
the last 30 days.  Marks and Spencer dropped 0.6 percent to 368.8 pence, the
lowest since Nov. 16. The U.K.’s largest clothing retailer said
late yesterday that same-store general-merchandise revenue in
Britain fell 3.8 percent in the 13 weeks ended Dec. 29. That was
worse than the median estimate for a 1.5 percent decline. Food
sales at stores open at least a year also missed projections.  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) , which owns the clothing chain
Primark, declined 1.7 percent to 1,520 pence. The shares have
retreated 4.6 percent from a record high on Jan. 02. The company
will report second-quarter sales in February.  Tesco, Bunzl  Tesco added 1.8 percent to 355.4 pence after beating sales
forecasts for the six weeks ending Jan. 5. U.K. sales at stores
open at least a year rose 1.8 percent, beating the 1 percent
median analyst prediction.  Bunzl rose 3.4 percent to 1,049 pence, the most since
February 2012. The company, which provides supply services for
grocery and health-care companies, said it acquired Vicsa Safety
SA in  Chile , and Schwarz Paper Co. and Destiny Packaging Inc. in
the U.S. The stock was raised to buy from hold at Numis
Securities Ltd. as the deals offer growth opportunities for the
company, analyst  Mike Murphy  wrote in a report.  John Wood Group Plc (WG/)  rose 2.7 percent to 794.5 pence as
Deutsche Bank AG recommended investors buy the stock. The oil-
services provider’s recent underperformance in the sector and
growth prospects means valuations are attractive, analyst
Sebastian Yoshida wrote in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  