-- U.K. Military Faces Critical Shortfalls Due to Delays, NAO Says
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-01-10T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-k-military-faces-critical-shortfalls-due-to-delays-nao-says.html
The U.K.’s military is facing
“critical shortfalls” in air transport and refueling
capabilities because of delays in delivering new aircraft, the
 National Audit Office  said.  The Ministry of Defense has spent an additional 787 million
pounds ($1.3 billion) to mitigate delays to the Future Strategic
Tanker Aircraft, made by a consortium that includes European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., and Airbus SAS’s A400M
transport-aircraft programs, the public spending watchdog said
in a report published in London today.  “The delays in introducing the new aircraft and budgetary
constraints have caused critical shortfalls in some capability
areas,” the NAO said. “This is particularly apparent up to the
end of U.K. combat operations in  Afghanistan  in 2014, when both
air transport and refueling aircraft will be extremely busy, but
also from 2022 for air transport, when the Hercules C130J
aircraft goes out of service early.”  The watchdog said defense officials are now examining the
possibility of extending the life of the ageing VC10 aircraft
made by Vickers-Armstrong, which were due to retire from service
in March, by “a few months” in order to provide extra
refueling capacity.  Once the VC10s are retired, the Royal Air Force will rely
solely on the Tristar aircraft made by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ,
also due to go out of service next year, until the FSTA is
ready.  The A330-based FSTA aircraft should be cleared for tanking
operations in a matter of weeks after problems refueling RAF
Tornado and Typhoon combat jets were fixed, Phill Blundell,
chief executive officer of AirTanker, said in an interview
yesterday. He said three aircraft had been delivered as planned
by the end of last year and six will be handed over mid-year.  Cost Overruns  Changes the defense ministry may make on  retirement plans 
for existing refuelers are not linked to the FSTA and instead
reflect a shift in defense requirements, he said.  The FSTA had the highest cost growth in the last year,
rising 257 million pounds, the NAO said. The increase largely
reflects 336 million pounds in higher fuel costs across the life
of the program, which the NAO acknowledged the ministry has
little control over.  Cost growth on  BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s aircraft carriers was
another contributor to boosting the U.K.’s main weapons programs
to 63.1 billion pounds. The cost of building the two carriers
jumped 217 million pounds amid a nine-month delay to complete
the 3.5 billion-pound project.  The NAO report, which gives a progress review of the 16
largest defense projects, shows that in the last year there has
been a total forecast slippage of 11 1/2 years and an increase
in costs of 468 million pounds.  The NAO said this means that, since the projects were
approved, costs have increased by 6.6 billion pounds, about 12
percent more than planned. When added together, the projects
have been delayed by 39 years, taking almost a third longer than
originally expected.  ‘Waste and Delay’  Although the overall bill for weapons programs increased,
the NAO said costs on 13 of 16 projects audited decreased by a
total of 169 million pounds.  Less than a year after Defense Secretary Philip Hammond
said the ministry’s budget had been balanced, “waste and delay
are characteristics of his equipment program,” the opposition
 Labour Party ’s defense spokesman,  Jim Murphy , said in an e-mail.
“There are now serious questions over government claims to have
a costed equipment program and we must see evidence of their
grand assertions.”  Delays to the A400M -- due to enter service in March 2015,
six years later than planned -- also means the U.K. needs
additional Boeing Co. C-17 strategic transport aircraft at a
cost of 215 million pounds and two BAe146 aircraft costing 47
million pounds “to ease the pressure on the air transport
fleet.”  “In respect of its largest defense projects there are
early signs that the Ministry of Defense has begun to make
realistic trade-offs between cost, time, technical requirements
and the amount of equipment to be purchased,” the NAO said.  ``This government has dramatically reduced the annual cost 
growth of the biggest equipment projects,'' Hammond said in an 
e-mailed statement. ``The 0.8 percent growth in program cost 
represents much less than the rate of inflation for the year.''  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  