-- Tories React With Fury Over U.S. Advice to U.K on EU
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-01-10T17:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-s-warns-cameron-over-u-k-vote-on-eu-membership-bbc-says.html
Lawmakers in Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party  reacted with anger to a call by the
U.S. for Britain to remain in the European Union, as the premier
emphasized points of agreement with his closest ally.  Philip Gordon, the assistant secretary of state for
European Affairs, said yesterday the U.S. wants Britain to stay
in the EU as a “strong voice” and warned of the risks of
holding a referendum on continued membership of the 27-nation
bloc.  “The Obama administration now thinks the U.K. should be
subservient to Brussels rule in many areas, just so the U.S. has
a more acceptable lobbyist at the EU court,” former Cabinet
minister John Redwood wrote on  his blog . “The U.S. stance will
probably recruit more U.K. citizens to the cause of a new and
different relationship with the EU for the U.K. We have no wish
to be told that we should lose our democracy in the cause of
advancing America’s.”  Arguments in the Conservative Party over  Europe  dogged the
time in office of  John Major , the party’s last prime minister
before Cameron. Redwood challenged him for party leader in 1995.
The debates show no sign of abating. The U.K. Independence
Party, which seeks Britain’s exit from the EU, is attracting the
support of about 10 percent of respondents in opinion polls.  Cameron Speech  Cameron is scheduled to make a speech setting out his
policy on Britain’s future relationship with the EU in the
coming weeks, under pressure from some members of his party to
call a referendum on pulling out. The U.K. staying in the EU is
important to U.S. interests and a referendum would risk turning
the country “inwards,” Gordon said in the  briefing  for
selected diplomatic correspondents in  London .  “We have a growing relationship with the European Union as
an institution which has an increasing voice in the world and we
want to see a strong British voice in that European Union, that
is in the American interest,” he told the reporters, according
to a transcript posted on the U.S. Embassy website. “We welcome
an outward-looking European Union with Britain in it.”  Cameron’s spokesman, Jean-Christophe Gray, said the prime
minister didn’t think Gordon’s briefing was inappropriate.  ‘Fresh Consent’  “What Philip Gordon was setting out was that the  United
States  is strongly in favor of an outward-looking European Union
with Britain in it and that’s very much our view,” Gray said in
London. “The European Union and euro zone are changing in
response to the economic crisis in recent years, the prime
minister’s view is he wants a change in Britain’s relationship
with the European Union and seeks fresh consent for that.”  Bernard Jenkin, the Tory chairman of the House of Commons
Public Administration Committee, said Gordon’s intervention
showed that U.S. governments do not understand the ways of the
27-nation EU.  “They have a default position that the United States of
Europe is going to be the same as the  United States of America .
They haven’t got a clue,” he told BBC Radio 5. “The State
Department in particular has long had this predilection that
somehow European unity is a good thing and Britain ought to be
in there, but I don’t think David Cameron is going to be
dictated to based on such a misunderstanding.”  That view was echoed by Tory lawmaker Mark Pritchard.  ‘Federal Europe’  “Whilst the U.S. understandably wants a stable and
integrated Europe, U.S. lawmakers have not yet fully realized
the national-security and foreign-policy implications of a
united federal Europe which, over time, will develop an EU
foreign policy replacing an independent U.K. foreign policy,”
he said in a telephone interview. “This will not be good for
U.S. interests or security as it is the U.K., not other EU
members, who have stood shoulder-to-shoulder with America.”  Gordon said that the decision about membership is one for
the U.K., while pointing out the danger of the bloc spending too
much time working on its structure rather than the economic and
social challenges it faces.  “I’m not going to imagine that the European Union will
ever get beyond any internal debates,” he said. “Every hour at
an EU summit spent debating the institutional makeup of the
European Union is one less hour spent talking about how we can
solve our common challenges of jobs, growth, and international
peace around the world.”  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , who leads Cameron’s pro-
EU Liberal Democrat coalition partners, said Gordon’s comments
were “entirely unsurprising” because of the U.K.’s importance
to the U.S. Clegg said Britain needs to “act big” in Europe.  ‘Subsidiary Status’  “Almost regardless of what question we put in the
referendum, the question is: Does Britain want to lead in Europe
or do we hang back in a sort of subsidiary status,” he told
reporters in London today. “I’m certainly not frightened of a
referendum.”  European Commission President  Jose Barroso  added his voice
to those calling for the U.K. to stay at the heart of Europe.  “It’s very much in the interest of the European Union to
have Britain at the center of the European project,” he told
reporters in Dublin today. “That is the position I favor, the
position where we have a very active Britain working with its
partners in the European Union, because also we need an open
Europe to the world. We cannot in times of crisis close
ourselves to the rest of the world.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  