-- U.S. Coking Coal May Gain Share Against Australia, Dahlman Says
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2013-01-10T20:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-s-coking-coal-may-gain-share-against-australia-dahlman-says.html
North American coking coal producers
may pull demand away from  Australia , the world’s top miner of
the steelmaking fuel, as new taxes and labor costs make that
country’s output less competitive.  U.S. and Canadian metallurgical  coal  is becoming more
competitive since Australia implemented taxes on mining profits
and  carbon emissions  on July 1, and as growth in energy sector
wages outpaced those in  North America , said  Dahlman Rose  & Co.  “In our view, the combination of these factors are tipping
the scale in favor of  Canada  and the U.S. and providing the
lowest cost North American producers with the opportunity to
gain market share,” Daniel Scott, an analyst at Dahlman Rose in
 New York , said in a report today.  The benchmark price for metallurgical coal is down 50
percent to $165 a metric ton from the record $330 per metric ton
set in the second quarter of 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. That price followed floods in Queensland, Australia, that
curtailed production.  “Though Australia remains the standard in the global
coking coal market and serves as the barometer for benchmark met
coal settlements its position as the low-cost producer has
eroded and the competitiveness of the industry is being
reshuffled, due to its cost inflation relative to the U.S. and
Canada,” Scott wrote.  Price Outlooks  The investment bank lowered its projection for the average
2013 metallurgical coal price to $180 a metric ton from an
earlier forecast of $200 and predicted that prices will average
$200 a metric ton in 2014.  Coking or metallurgical coal is used in steelmaking while
the thermal variety is used by utilities to generate
electricity.  Dahlman cut its Central Appalachia thermal coal outlook 9.7
percent to $65 a short ton from $72 and estimated that prices
will average $70 in 2014.  Coal fell 24 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $57.93 a ton
yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 13 percent
from a year earlier.  “We believe that elevated inventories and ample supply
will continue to weigh on global thermal coal prices during
2013,” Scott wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  