-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; DirecTV Issues $750 Million of Bonds
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-01-10T22:11:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/u-s-corporate-credit-swaps-decline-as-chinese-exports-increase.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk was little changed as a rise in jobless claims was offset
by an increase in Chinese exports.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 0.4
basis point to a mid-price of 86.3 basis points at 4:37 p.m. in
New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Earlier, the index dropped as much as 1.4 basis points as
Chinese overseas shipments surged 14.1 percent in December from
a year earlier, customs administration data showed today. That’s
the biggest gain since May and beat a 5 percent median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey. Signs that global growth is
accelerating may ease concern that an economic slowdown will
hinder companies’ ability to repay debt.  “The Chinese data was good, better than people expected,”
Scott MacDonald, head of research at MC Asset Management
Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “Long term, it’s good for the U.S. economy
considering it’s one of our major trade partners. It’s a tiny
step for  China  in terms of getting away from a hard landing.”  Jobless claims in the U.S. climbed 4,000 to 371,000 in the
week ended Jan. 5, Labor Department figures showed today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 48 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a drop to 365,000.  DirecTV Issuance  Hiring data will reflect the political uncertainty while
lawmakers negotiate the nation’s debt ceiling, according to
MacDonald. “The U.S. economy has a degree of resilience, but
you have a lot of political risk sitting on the table. Companies
are still cautious as to how they are approaching 2013,” he
said.  The credit-swaps index typically falls as investor
confidence improves and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  DirecTV (DTV) , the largest U.S. satellite-TV operator, issued
$750 million of 1.75 percent, five-year securities to yield 115
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Proceeds from the sale may be used
to buy back stock, the El Segundo, California-based company said
today in a regulatory filing.  Albertson’s Swaps  The risk premium on the Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index fell 8.8 basis points to 436.5 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit swaps protecting against losses on the  debt  of
Albertson’s Inc. dropped 5.1 percentage points to 20 percent
upfront as of 3:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider
CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  A Cerberus Capital Management LP-led investor group agreed
to acquire  Supervalu Inc. (SVU) ’s Albertson’s, Acme, Jewel-Osco,
Shaw’s and Star Market grocery stores in a transaction valued at
about $3.3 billion. Cerberus, which specializes in distressed
investing, bought a stake in Albertson’s in 2006 with a group
that included Supervalu.  Credit swaps tied to Supervalu declined 55.2 basis points
to 764.7 basis points, according to CMA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  