-- Hungary May Spook Market With MNB Governor, Capital Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-01-10T16:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/hungary-may-spook-market-with-mnb-governor-capital-says.html
Hungarian Premier  Viktor Orban ’s
choice to lead the central bank may be a further sign of
government interference in monetary policy and may “spook”
investors,  Capital Economics  Ltd. said today.  The appointment of Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy , who
has spearheaded the country’s unorthodox economic policies,
would “send the strongest signal” that the Magyar Nemzeti
Bank’s independence “is under assault,” London-based
economists William Jackson and  Neil Shearing  wrote in a note.  “From the perspective of the markets, Dr. Matolcsy would
also be the worst choice,” Jackson and Shearing said. “He has
been one of most vocal critics of the current MPC and one of the
chief proponents of Fidesz’s unorthodox economic policy, which
has undermined investors’ confidence.”  Orban has relied on new taxes, including special levies on
the banking and telecommunications industries, as well as the
nationalization of private pension fund assets to keep the
budget shortfall below 3 percent and avoid losing European Union
development funds. The measures helped drive the economy into
its second recession in four years, damaging investment,
lending, consumption and growth.  The forint plunged 1.1 percent to 292.8 per euro by 4:56
p.m. in Budapest, the most since Jan. 4, after Matolcsy said
 Hungary  should reject “traditional” economic models including
policies that kept the forint strong to fight inflation.
Matolcsy commented in his weekly Heti Valasz column, published
today.  Choke Inflation  Central bank chief Andras Simor, who has urged the bank to
act “much more firmly” against inflation that slowed to an 11-
month low of 5.2 percent in November, has been outvoted along
with his two deputies on rate cuts by the four non-executive
members Orban’s lawmakers appointed in 2011.  The new central bank head should follow the  European
Central Bank  and the  Federal Reserve  in providing monetary
stimulus, “bravely” using unorthodox tools as part of a
“strategic alliance” with the government, Matolcsy, cited in
media reports as the favorite to succeed Andras Simor in March,
told HirTV on Dec. 22.  The central bank on Dec. 18 cut the European Union’s
highest  benchmark interest rate  by a quarter-point for a fifth
month, to 5.75 percent as the majority of the Monetary Council
looked to jumpstart the economy.  “The irony of this is that the appointment of a loyalist
could actually limit the room for rate cuts by leading to a rise
in Hungary’s risk premia and a sell-off in local assets, thus
forcing a tighter policy stance,” Jackson and Shearing wrote.  The mandate of Simor’s two deputies,  Ferenc Karvalits  and
Julia Kiraly, also end this year.  “If the government replaces them with loyalists as well,
we could be in a situation whereby the entire MPC is dominated
by government allies in the second half of the year -– spelling
further losses in the bank’s credibility and further falls in
local assets,” Capital Economics said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  