-- United Nations Urges Mercury Emissions-Reduction Binding Treaty
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-01-10T13:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/united-nations-urges-mercury-emissions-reduction-binding-treaty.html
The  United Nations  is calling for a
binding global treaty to curb man-made mercury emissions as
coal-fired  power plants  and small-scale gold mining threaten to
boost pollutant levels in Asia,  Africa  and  South America .  Envoys from about 100 countries will meet in Geneva on Jan.
18-23 for the final round of talks on a pact pledging to reduce
emissions of the toxin and provide funds to help poorer
countries adapt, said Achim Steiner, executive director of the
UN Environment Programme known as UNEP.  Failing to reach an agreement would make it difficult “to
turn around a trend that we’ve observed for 200 years,” Steiner
said today in Kenya’s capital Nairobi. “We believe we can
achieve dramatic progress in the next 10 to 20 years.”  Asia  is the world’s biggest emitter of mercury emissions,
accounting for about half of the total, according to a UNEP
study called  Global Mercury Assessment 2013  that was released
today. Small-scale, artisan miners who use mercury to extract
gold from soil and rocks are responsible for releasing 35
percent of the emissions worldwide. Burning fossil fuels to
generate power and heating causes 24 percent, the study showed.  Global mercury emissions have remained stable for two
decades at an estimated 2,000 metric tons a year, according to
UNEP. Lower output from Western nations after the U.S. and
European Union tightened rules on toxins and accelerated a move
toward cleaner technologies has countered rising emissions from
 developing countries , Steiner said. Kyrgyzstan is the last
country in the world that allows mercury exports, he said.  High mercury levels damage the nervous system and pose a
particular danger to pregnant women, fetuses and children. It
can cause  memory loss , learning disabilities and behavioral
disorders. People are often exposed to mercury by eating
contaminated fish. Once released, mercury can travel long
distances through air and water and seeps into soil.  Human-driven activities have contributed to a doubling of
mercury pollution in the top 100 meters (328 feet) of the
world’s seas the past century, according to UNEP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  