-- Usiminas Beats Peers on Steel Price Increase Speculation
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-01-11T20:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/usiminas-said-to-seek-up-to-7-increase-in-brazil-steel-prices.html
Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais
SA  was the only Brazilian steelmaker stock to post gains today,
following speculation it will boost prices to counter higher
costs.  Usiminas, as the  Belo Horizonte , Brazil-based company is
known,  rose  0.4 percent to 12.09 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo . The shares were the second-best performer after pulp
producer  Fibria Celulose SA (FIBR3)  in the MSCI Brazil/Materials  index ,
which fell 1.7 percent to the lowest since Dec. 25.  Usiminas informed clients that domestic prices will rise
3.5 percent to 7 percent on Jan. 20, a person with knowledge of
the plan said, declining to be named because the increase hasn’t
been made public. The company is trying to increase profit
margins amid rising prices for coal and iron-ore used to make
steel, the person said.  “Price increases are always good,” Leonardo Brito, an
equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica Investimentos, said by
telephone from  Rio de Janeiro  today. “Despite being a bit
expected, it still has some impact” on the stock performance.  A press official for Usiminas in Belo Horizonte said
yesterday that the company doesn’t comment on pricing.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, and  Cia.
Siderurgica Nacional SA (SID) , Brazil’s third-largest, are seeking to
boost prices in the country by between 3.5 percent and 7.5
percent, another person with knowledge of those plans said Jan.
9. An external media official working for ArcelorMittal in Belo
Horizonte said the company doesn’t comment on its price policy.
Officials at CSN, as the Brazilian steelmaker is known, also
declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  