-- Verizon to Face Backup Power Requirement on 911 Calling
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2013-01-10T19:38:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/verizon-to-face-backup-power-requirement-on-911-calling.html
Carriers including  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ)  didn’t follow their own procedures for
backup power and system design, causing 911 emergency-calling
service to fail for more than 2 million people after storms last
June, U.S. regulators said.  Federal Communications Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski , in an e-mailed statement accompanying an agency
report issued today, said he will seek rules to strengthen 911
service.  “These failures are unacceptable and the FCC will do
whatever is necessary to ensure the reliability of 911,”
Genachowski said, without announcing a date for agency action.  Emergency calls were disrupted in parts of six states after
storms with powerful winds, called derechos, hammered the
eastern U.S. on June 29, knocking out commercial power.  In Fairfax County, Virginia, almost 1,900 calls to 911
weren’t routed to emergency operators in a 29-hour period after
backup generators failed at a Verizon office, according to a
 report  today from the FCC’s Public Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau.  The FCC may consider stronger backup-power requirements for
central telephone offices, more tests of 911 circuits, and
better designs so a single point of failure doesn’t cripple wide
areas of service, according to the report.  “Too many of us were left without communications and could
not reach 911,” Jessica Rosenworcel, an FCC commissioner, said
in an e-mailed statement. “We have a duty to find out what went
wrong and to apply those lessons to make our networks more
resilient.”  Cascading Failures  The agency’s report traced a cascading series of failures
after generators didn’t work properly in two Verizon offices in
Washington’s northern  Virginia  suburbs, cutting 911 service in
four jurisdictions. Fairfax County resorted to a Twitter message
the morning of June 30 telling its 1.1 million residents to “go
to the nearest police or fire station to report emergencies,”
according to a county report submitted to the FCC in August.  Seventeen public-safety call centers serving more than 2
million people in three states failed entirely, and some 911
service, such as location identification, was lost at 77 call
centers in six states serving 3.6 million people, according to
the FCC report.  ‘Substantial Progress’  New York-based Verizon has corrected the cause of the
generator problems in northern Virginia, Anthony Melone, Verizon
executive vice president and chief technology officer, said in
an e-mail today.  “We have acted diligently and decisively to resolve the
operational and communications issues that arose,” Melone said.
“Our performance during  Hurricane Sandy  in late October
demonstrated the substantial progress we’ve made.”  June’s storms caused greater havoc on emergency calls than
Hurricane Sandy, which left most 911 services intact, according
to the FCC.  Hurricane Sandy knocked out mobile service in parts of 10
states and the District of Columbia, generating fresh questions
about ways to keep wireless networks working when disasters hit.
Telephone companies went to court and blocked backup power rules
for mobile phone sites that the FCC proposed in 2007, after
Hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans.  In today’s report, the FCC didn’t propose backup power for
wireless telephone service. The agency has set a hearing on
Sandy outages for Feb. 5 in Manhattan and Hoboken, New Jersey.  Areas suffering 911 disruptions after the June storms
included West Virginia, where service is provided by  Frontier
Communications Corp. (FTR) , and  Ohio , where service is provided by
Frontier,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  CenturyLink Inc. (CTL) , the FCC said.  Generator Maintenance  Since the storm, Frontier has invested in its network to
improve disaster preparedness and will “carefully study” the
FCC’s report, Executive Vice President Kathleen Abernathy said
in a statement released on Business Wire by the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based carrier.  Verizon generators in northern Virginia didn’t start
automatically when power failed and may not have been properly
maintained, according to a preliminary report by the Virginia
State Corporation Commission, a state regulator.  In the report, the state agency’s staff said the
“unprecedented” 911 system failures shouldn’t have happened.  Loss of 911 service didn’t cause catastrophic consequences
for anybody in northern Virginia, according to the state report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  