-- World-Beating Vietnam Stocks Poised to Extend Rally on Policies
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/vietnam-stocks-head-for-bull-market-on-growth-inflation-policy.html
The world-beating rally that drove
 Vietnamese stocks  into a  bull market  is poised to continue as
the government takes steps to boost the economy, BIDV Securities
Co. and Vietnam Holding Asset Management Ltd. said.  The benchmark VN Index jumped 2.5 percent yesterday to
460.12, the highest level since May 14. That sent valuations to
12.8 times reported profit, the most expensive in almost three
years. The gauge has surged 23 percent from a 10-month low on
Nov. 2. An advance of 20 percent or more from a low signals a
bull market to some investors.  The VN Index has climbed 11 percent this year, the most
among global benchmarks tracked by Bloomberg, after the central
bank cut  interest rates  last month amid signs inflation is
slowing. The measure slumped 23 percent from May through Nov. 2
as slowing growth hurt  corporate earnings  and arrests of banking
officials fueled concerns about financial-system instability.
The government met last month to discuss forming a debt-asset
management company to resolve bad bank loans.  “I expect the index to reach 500 around the end of the
first quarter,” Le Thi Hai Duong, brokerage manager at Hanoi-
based BIDV Securities, a unit of the country’s second-biggest
lender by assets, said yesterday. “For the medium term, it’s
still good to invest. There might be some minor corrections
though.”  Sell Signal  The  VN Index (VNINDEX) ’s price-earnings ratio is trading at the
biggest premium versus the MSCI Emerging Market Index since June
2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The Vietnamese gauge’s
14-day relative strength index rose to 93 yesterday, above the
70 level that some traders use as a sell signal.  “There’s optimism that corporate earnings will be good
this year as the government appears to be more determined to
take action to boost the economy, especially with inflation
cooling,” Duong said.  Vietnam’s economy expanded 5.03 percent in 2012, the
slowest pace in 13 years, the General Statistics Office said on
Dec. 24. The economy may expand about 5.5 percent this year, the
government said on Dec. 10. Inflation slowed for the first time
in four months in December to 6.81 percent, compared with a peak
of 23 percent in August 2011.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung instructed the central bank
to pursue monetary policies this year that balance curbing
inflation with increased commercial lending and economic growth,
according to a statement on the central bank’s website
yesterday.  Templeton’s Mobius  The VN Index also rose yesterday after the State Securities
Commission said on Jan. 9 it may increase the foreign-ownership
cap on some companies to help boost the nation’s equity markets.
It plans to widen trading bands on the two  stock exchanges  in
Hanoi and  Ho Chi Minh City  from Jan. 15, increase margin
financing, establish a credit-rating agency and introduce more
financial products.  “Right now, the problem is that lack of liquidity means
that if you want to buy stocks, you have to pay a premium,”
 Mark Mobius , who oversees more than $40 billion at Templeton
 Emerging Markets  Group, said in an interview on Jan. 7. “As
they increase the foreign ownership limit, that means more
stocks will be available, the market will be more liquid and
prices will be fair.”  Overseas investors have been net buyers of the nation’s
shares for six straight months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Foreigners have purchased a net $51 million of stocks this year,
more than double the amount at the same time in 2012, the data
show.  “There’s a good chance this positive movement will
continue,” Jean-Christophe Ganz, Zurich-based chairman of
 Vietnam  Holding Asset Management, which oversees about $71
million invested in Vietnamese companies, said by phone
yesterday. “Domestic investors move when they see or hear or
feel that foreign investors are coming in. If the inflow from
foreign investors continues, it’s likely to be interpreted by
domestic investors as a positive signal.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Nguyen Dieu Tu
Uyen in Hanoi at   uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  