-- VimpelCom Swings at Record on Strategy Outlook: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-01-10T02:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/vimpelcom-swings-at-record-on-strategy-outlook-russia-overnight.html
VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  is posting the
biggest price swings on record versus peers as  Russia ’s third-
largest mobile provider prepares to disclose investment strategy
for the first time since resolving a shareholder conflict.  American depositary receipts of VimpelCom rallied 1.3
percent yesterday in  New York , as the stock’s 60-day volatility
reading jumped to a two-month high of 31.35, compared with an
average of 7.67 for companies included in the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Telecommunication Services Index. The  Bloomberg Russia-
US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian companies rose for
the first time this week, adding 0.2 percent.  VimpelCom has slipped 0.5 percent since Nov. 23, when
Russia agreed to withdraw a case against  Norway ’s Telenor ASA
for raising its stake, a move that frees the Amsterdam-based
phone company to pay dividends suspended in May. VimpelCom,
which saw its share of revenue from Russia drop to 39.89 percent
in the third quarter, from 41.82 percent in the previous three
months, said it will unveil its strategy for this year through
2015 at  meetings  in  London  on Jan. 16.  “Everyone expects the company will focus on its strategy
now that the shareholder dispute is over,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an
analyst at Sberbank Investment Research who will start coverage
on VimpelCom at the end of the month, said by phone from Moscow
yesterday. “VimpelCom should regain its share of the Russian
market, the main source of its revenue globally. Particularly,
it should increase its share of the mobile Internet market.”  VimpelCom was formed in 2011 when its Moscow-based unit
merged with  Italy ’s Wind Telecom SpA to create the world’s
sixth-biggest mobile phone company by number of subscribers. The
stock, which gained 11 percent in 2012, rose 1.3 percent to
$10.71 in New York yesterday.  Dispute Settled  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge increased to 100.30
yesterday, advancing for the first time in three days.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, decreased 0.2
percent to $29.80, the lowest level since Dec. 28. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, dropped 2.3 percent to 20.86.  Russian  stock futures  expiring in March on Moscow’s RTS
Index were little changed at 157,020 yesterday.  A Moscow court banned VimpelCom’s Russian unit from paying
dividends last year because the anti-monopoly service, knows as
FAS, opposed Oslo-based Telenor buying more shares. The dispute
was settled when Altimo Cooperatief U.A.’s billionaire owner
 Mikhail Fridman  increased his voting stake in VimpelCom to 47.85
percent in October.  Algeria Resolution  Bobby Leach , an Amsterdam-based spokesman for VimpelCom,
said by e-mail yesterday that the company won’t release a
preview of its strategy before its analyst and investor day.  Investors are also looking for signs from VimpelCom that it
will resolve the situation with its Djezzy unit in  Algeria  and
reduce its debt, Sberbank Investment’s Lepetukhina said
yesterday.  The Algerian government’s purchase of a stake in Djezzy, a
local unit of VimpelCom’s Orascom Telecom Algerie, is nearing
completion and is pending selection of seven board members, Al-
Fadjr independent newspaper reported last month, citing
unidentified Finance Ministry officials.  VimpelCom’s  debt-to-earnings  before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization is the third highest among
telecommunication carriers, following The Hague-based
Koninklijke KPN NV and Telecom Italia SpA of Milan. The
company’s debt-to-ebitda ratio was at 2.52 yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Norilsk Surges  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel (NILSY) , the world’s largest nickel and
palladium producer, jumped 4.2 percent to $19.85 yesterday in
New York, the highest level since March 15. The company’s common
 stock  in Moscow gained 2.3 percent to 5,875 rubles, or $193.65,
the highest level since March 15. One ADR represents a 10th of
the company’s Moscow-listed  shares .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation on the
stock to neutral from sell yesterday, after Chief Executive
Officer  Vladimir Potanin  and United Co. Rusal, controlled by
billionaire Oleg Deripaska, last month settled a struggle for
control of the company that lasted more than four years.  “The stock is driven by relief after the battle and
expectations for higher dividends,” Valentina Bogomolova, an
analyst at UralSib Capital who has a hold rating on the shares,
said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “People expect that the
company may consider paying a special dividend for 2012.”  The ruble depreciated 0.2 percent against the basket to
34.5428 by 11:50 p.m. in Moscow yesterday. The ruble lost 0.5
percent to 30.36 per dollar and less than 0.1 percent to 39.66
per euro.  United Co. Rusal, the world’s largest aluminum producer,
rose 1 percent to HK$5.05 in Hong Kong trading as of 10:42 a.m.
local time. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 0.9 percent.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  