-- Wal-Mart CEO Knew of Mexico Bribery, Congressmen Say
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y
-- 2013-01-10T22:24:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/wal-mart-ceo-knew-of-mexico-bribery-congressmen-say.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  Chief Executive
Officer  Mike Duke  knew about allegations of bribery in the
retailer’s operations in  Mexico  in 2005, two U.S. Congressmen
said.  Democratic Representatives  Henry Waxman  of  California  and
 Elijah Cummings  of  Maryland  said today in a statement that
documents obtained by their staffs show that Duke and senior
Wal-Mart officials were informed about allegations of corruption
regarding a store in Teotihuacan.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, is investigating
allegations that executives in Mexico paid more than $24 million
in bribes to speed the retailer’s expansion there. The company
also is the subject of a U.S. Justice Department criminal
investigation, a person familiar with the probe has said.  The congressmen’s letter contains no new information,
Brooke Buchanan, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “This information has been part of the company’s ongoing
investigation of potential violations of the U.S. Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act for more than a year and has been the
subject of two  New York  Times articles,” she said.  Wal-Mart fell 0.3 percent to $68.36 at the close in New
York. The  shares  gained 14 percent last year, compared with
a 7.5 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Consumer 
Staples Index.  Wal-Mart E-Mails  The e-mails contradict the company’s earlier statements
that senior executives had no knowledge of the bribery
allegations involving the Teotihuacan store, Cummings and Waxman
said in a statement.  “It would be a serious matter if the CEO of one of our
nation’s largest companies failed to address allegations of a
bribery scheme,” Cummings and Waxman wrote in a letter to Duke
dated today.  Maritza Munich, then general counsel of Wal-Mart
International, e-mailed Duke and other senior Wal-Mart officials
in November 2005 about specific bribes paid for permits and
accelerated openings for stores in Teotihuacan and other
locations, according to the correspondence released by the
congressmen.  Wal-Mart hasn’t disputed the authenticity of the documents.  `Wrong Impression’  Buchanan said in the statement that the letter from the
congressmen “leaves the wrong impression that our public
statements are contradicted by the information they released
today.” She said earlier statements denying knowledge of the
accusations “focused on events in 2004” and not the e-mails in
question.  “We are committed to having a strong and effective global
anti-corruption program everywhere we operate and taking
appropriate action for any instance of non-compliance,”
Buchanan, the Wal-Mart spokeswoman, said in the statement.  The congressmen also said in their letter that the e-mails
“cast a new and unfavorable light on Wal-Mart’s continued
unwillingness to provide our investigators with access to Ms.
Munich, who appears to be a key witness who would know about
your knowledge of the Teotihuacan bribes.”  Wal-Mart attorneys told the members in June that they were
“working through a protocol” that would allow Munich to speak
to government investigators, according to the letter. They have
received no additional information since then, the letter says.  “This ongoing delay frustrates our investigation,”
Cummings and Waxman wrote.  The company is “exploring ways to make additional
information available,” Buchanan said.  “We have provided extensive documentation to the
 Department of Justice  and the Securities and Exchange
Commission, including the documents released today, as part of
our ongoing cooperation with the appropriate law enforcement
agencies on this matter,” Buchanan said. “We want to provide
Members of Congress with whatever appropriate information we can
to help them and we have already provided committee staff with
multiple briefings.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  