-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Increase 0.6% as Sales Surge
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-01-10T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-increase-0-6-as-sales-surge.html
Inventories at U.S. wholesalers rose
more than forecast in November as companies tried to keep up
with a surge in demand.  The 0.6 percent increase in  stockpiles  followed a 0.3
percent rise in October that was less than initially estimated,
the Commerce Department said today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a 0.2 percent gain.
Sales jumped 2.3 percent, the most since March 2011, as auto
demand rebounded from a superstorm Sandy-related drop.  The acceleration in purchases left wholesalers with enough
goods on hand to last 1.19 months at the current sales pace, the
lowest since May. Stabilization in global growth and clarity on
U.S. budget issues may help bolster demand and spur companies to
step up orders.  “If you look at sales over the final two months of the
year, this was a good thing,”  Brian Jones , a senior U.S.
economist at  Societe Generale  in  New York , said before the
report. “They were building inventories and importing cars in
anticipation of solid year-end demand.”  The  median  forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a Bloomberg survey of 23 economists. Estimates ranged from a
decrease of 0.4 percent to a 0.9 percent gain after an initially
reported 0.6 percent advance in October.  Another report today showed initial  jobless claims  climbed
to 371,000 last week from 367,000. A consistent decline in
firings, along with a rise in payrolls, is needed to spur
 consumer spending , the biggest part of the economy.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.4 percent, led by autos,
electrical equipment and machinery, today’s report showed.
Demand for goods meant to last at least three years surged 2.7
percent, the biggest gain since December 2011.  Vehicle Sales  Auto sales jumped 2.8 percent in November, the most since
January, rebounding from a 2.9 percent slump the prior month
that may have reflected the influence of Sandy, which closed
some East Coast ports. Auto  purchases  ran at a 15.3 million
annual rate in December after 15.5 million the prior month, the
best two months since early 2008.  Unsold non-durable goods rose 0.8 percent as sales climbed
2 percent. Stockpiles of pharmaceuticals, food and petroleum
increased.  Retailers such as  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and Ralph Lauren Corp. have
improved their inventory management in recent years, keeping
them from having to resort to steep discounts to prevent
merchandise from piling up. The strategy will show up in a
company’s gross margin, or the portion of sales left after
subtracting the cost of goods.  Retail Discounts  The companies are increasingly using sophisticated
analytics in planning discounts for customers, deciding how much
to order based on previous sales and industry-wide demand, Megan
Donadio, a New York-based retail strategist for consulting firm
Kurt Salmon, said in a Dec. 26 interview with  Bloomberg News .  Wholesalers make up about 30 percent of all business
stockpiles. Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent
of the total, were unchanged for a second month in November, the
Commerce Department said Jan. 4. Retail stockpiles will be
included in the business inventories report due Jan. 15.  November sales at retailers rose as holiday shoppers
snapped up electronics and clothes, Commerce Department data
showed Dec. 13. Car sales jumped last month to a four-year high,
in part because Americans in Sandy’s path replaced damaged
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  