-- Two People Shot at California School, Suspect in Custody
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-01-10T22:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/two-students-shot-at-california-high-school-suspect-in-custody.html
A male student and a teacher were
injured at Taft Union High School in  California ’s San Joaquin
Valley and another teenage boy was taken into custody, according
to the Kern County Sheriff’s Office.  A 16-year-old student was flown from the school in Taft,
California, to a local hospital and is in critical and stable
condition, Kern County Sheriff Donny Youngblood said at a news
conference near the school. The teacher received a minor pellet
wound to the head and refused treatment, Youngblood said.  The shooter “had intended targets,” Youngblood said.
“There’s no question about that.”  The suspect, also 16, showed up midway through a science
class and opened fire, Youngblood said. The alleged shooter,
whom authorities didn’t identify, fired 2 to 4 rounds from a 12-
gauge shotgun and called out the name of his intended victim,
Youngblood said. The suspect fired at another student and
missed, he said.  “Obviously, there had been a dialogue between the victim
who is critical and the suspect before this morning,”
Youngblood said.  The attack occurred as the White House considers stricter
gun-control measures following last month’s mass shooting at a
Newtown, Connecticut elementary school. Vice President  Joe Biden 
is meeting with representatives of the  National Rifle
Association  and other groups to discuss ways to curb access to
firearms.  School Closed  Students were dismissed after the attack, and the school
will remain closed tomorrow, said the interim superintendent,
William McDermott.  Kern County authorities were notified of gunfire at the
high school at 9:01 a.m., fire department spokesman  Sean Collins 
said in a telephone interview.  Taft, a rural town of about 7,000 people set amid central
California’s oil fields, is about 20 miles west of Bakersfield
and 120 miles northwest of  Los Angeles .  A gunman killed 20 children and six adults at the Newtown
school on Dec. 14, using a semiautomatic rifle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net  and  Michael White  in Los
Angeles at   mwhite8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  