-- Yunnan Probes Subway Accident Amid China’s Drive to Build
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-01-10T04:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/yunnan-probes-subway-accident-amid-china-s-drive-to-build.html
China ’s Yunnan province is
investigating a subway accident that killed a driver and injured
the co-driver in a test run for a line set to open before the
Lunar New Year holiday.  A metro car derailed on the new line in China’s southern
city of Kunming, Yunnan on Jan. 8, and the reason for the
accident remains unclear, according to a  statement  posted on the
website of subway operator Kunming Rail Transit Co. No
passengers were on the train, the schedule to open the line Feb.
6 won’t be affected and tests of the new line were halted,  China
Daily   reported  today, citing Xiang Haoxu, deputy head of the
state-owned operator.  China is accelerating approvals for construction of subway
projects to boost economic growth. The accident is a “wake-up
call” for the government to focus on safety and regulation,
said  Zhao Jian , a professor of economics at Beijing Jiaotong
University, which specializes in railways.  “There’s a great leap forward in subway investment and
construction nowadays,” Zhao said by phone today. “It is time
to think whether every city needs a subway and is capable of
building it.”  The National Development and Reform Commission, the
nation’s top economic planner, announced approvals for metro
projects in 18 cities in September. It also approved a 63.7
billion-yuan ($10.2 billion) subway construction plan in
Changsha city,  Hunan province .  Kunming’s new line started a test run on Nov. 5 and was
expected to start moving passengers on Feb. 6, according to the
subway operator’s website. China’s Lunar New Year falls on Feb.
10 this year. Metro cars are made by CSR Corp., the nation’s
biggest trainmaker, according to Kunming Rail’s website. Calls
to Kunming Rail and the city government went unanswered today.  Beijing opened four subway lines on Dec. 30, bringing the
number of lines in the Chinese capital to 16 with a total length
of 442 kilometers (275 miles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  