-- ZTE to Double Share on Apple Turf After Passing IPhone in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-01-10T03:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-01-10/zte-to-double-share-on-apple-turf-after-passing-iphone-in-china.html
ZTE Corp. (000063) , which eclipsed  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s handset shipments in China last year, plans to double its
share in the iPhone-maker’s home market by adding devices
specifically tailored for individual U.S. wireless operators.  The company intends to grab as much as 10 percent of the
U.S. handset market by 2015, Cheng Lixin, head of ZTE’s
operations in the country, said in an interview yesterday at the
annual International  Consumer Electronics Show  in Las Vegas.
That would also boost the Shenzhen, China-based company’s U.S.
sales ranking to fourth from fifth, he said.  ZTE plans to win backing from U.S. carriers by drawing on
its experience making communications equipment to design phones
that use operators’ networks more efficiently, Cheng said. That
contrasts Apple’s one-size-fits-all approach, which left  AT&T
Inc. (T)  struggling to cope with a flood of data following the
introduction on the iPhone, he said.  “Apple has a completely different business model than we
do,” he said. The Chinese phone-maker will also work with
carriers to study consumer behavior and needs to improve and
customize phone designs, he said.  The phone-maker surpassed Apple’s shipments in  China  in the
second quarter of last year. In 2011, it more than quadrupled
smartphone shipments in the country to 15 million. Apple’s share
of the smartphone market in China declined two spots to sixth in
the third quarter, with less than 10 percent, according to IDC.
ZTE ranked fourth.  Low-End Phones  ZTE won sales in China by focusing on low-end smartphones,
such as the Blade, which cost 1,000  yuan  ($161) or less. The
cheapest iPhone on Apple’s China website, an 8 gigabyte iPhone
4, costs 3,088 yuan. The iPhone 5 begins at 5,288 yuan.  ZTE is developing more advanced and expensive models as it
tries to lure consumers from Apple and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) 
in the U.S. At the Las Vegas show, it unveiled its new flagship
handset, the Grand S, which is for fourth generation Long Term
Evolution networks. It has a 5-inch screen and runs Google
Inc.’s Android Jelly Bean system, enabled by  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s
Snapdragon S4 Pro processor.  Still, the company is struggling to convince analysts it
can break into the high-end segment. It’s  rated  hold or sell by
23 analysts, with 11 saying buy, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The phone-maker also fell 46 percent last year in
Hong Kong trading,  compared  to a 23 percent rise in the
benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  “I find ZTE’s ambitions in the high end and in the U.S.
fairly unrealistic,” said  Pierre Ferragu , a London-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. “High-end smartphone
users, especially in the U.S., are highly brand-conscious and I
don’t believe ZTE has made any progress on that front.”  The company would be better served focusing on the low-end
unbranded segment, where its good cost base provides a
competitive edge, said Ferragu, who rates ZTE underperform.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  