-- M&S Loses Britain’s Largest Clothing Retailer Title to Next
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-29T15:57:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/m-s-loses-britain-s-largest-clothing-retailer-title-to-next-1-.html
Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS) ’s reign as
the U.K.’s largest clothing retailer by market value is over
after it was overtaken this week by competitor  Next Plc. (NXT)   Next, which gets about a third of sales from its online
Directory unit, rose 1.2 percent to 3,199 pence today, giving it
a market capitalization of 5.28 billion pounds ($8.3 billion).
That’s 62 million pounds more than the 5.22 billion-pound
valuation of London-based Marks & Spencer.  Marks & Spencer’s eclipse by Next adds to the pressure on
Chief Executive Officer  Marc Bolland , who has struggled to
revive sales since he took the helm more than two years ago. At
Next, with sales almost three times smaller than M&S, a superior
earnings record and a larger online business have helped propel
the Leicester, England-based retailer past its competitor.  “Next has grown profitably, it’s a very well-run business,
it’s a very good brand,” said  Andrew Wade , an analyst at Numis
Securities in  London , who has a hold recommendation on Marks &
Spencer and an add rating on Next.  Marks & Spencer was 1.35 billion pounds ahead of Next in
capitalization on March 21,  data compiled  by Bloomberg show.
Since then, M&S has dropped 15 percent while Next gained almost
10 percent. Next, which surpassed M&S on June 25 for the first
time, trades at 12 times estimated earnings, compared to 9.4 for
Marks & Spencer.  Online Sales  Next Directory home-shopping revenue increased 16 percent
to 1.09 billion pounds in the year through January. The unit’s
sales have risen more than 10 percent every quarter since 2010.  Marks & Spencer online sales delivered to homes or to be
picked up at stores were 559 million pounds, accounting for just
5.6 percent of the retailer’s 9.9 billion-pound revenue last
year. In the U.K., M&S clothing sales rose 0.2 percent compared
with a 3.9 percent increase in food.  The transition from a store-based retailer into an online
one has helped Next overtake M&S, Wade said.  “Next was positioned well with the catalog business and
having made the transition into multichannel earlier, they have
taken advantage of that channel shift more than M&S,” he said.  Next is  buying back  another 200 million pounds of shares
this year, helping to increase market value after a 290 million-
pound buyback program last year.  Marks & Spencer, which hasn’t bought back shares since
2008, reduced its sales forecast in May as a slump in  consumer
spending  hurt sales. It’s spending 450 million pounds to improve
stores, with new layouts and marketing campaigns to
differentiate its clothing brands and by adding deli counters
and bakeries.  Kate Bostock, who heads Marks & Spencer’s non-food
business, is set to leave the retailer after eight years, the
Financial Times reported yesterday. The departure may be
announced at the company’s annual general meeting on July 10 or
sooner, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  