-- Abound Investors Have Links to Republicans, Democrats
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-29T17:53:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/abound-investors-have-links-to-republicans-democrats.html
Abound Solar Inc., a failed U.S.
solar manufacturer that borrowed $70 million guaranteed by the
Obama administration, received financial support from investors
with connections to both Democrats and Republicans.  Pat Stryker, the billionaire heiress of a medical devices
company, founded Bohemian Cos., one of six groups that invested
$300 million into Abound. She is also a cash bundler for
President  Barack Obama , according to the Center for Responsive
Politics. The Loveland, Colorado-based company plans to file for
bankruptcy next week.  The solar company is also backed by Invus Public Equities
Advisors LLC, which was co-founded by Raymond Debbane, who has
donated to  Republican candidates including Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican who led an investigation
of the U.S. Energy Department loan guarantee program.  Abound’s failure renews Republican criticism of the
program, which became a political lightning rod after the August
failure of Solyndra LLC, a solar manufacturer that received a
$535 million loan guarantee and was backed by Obama fund-raiser
 George Kaiser .  “Neither party’s hands are clean in this one,” said Paul
Chesser, an associate fellow at the National Legal & Policy
Center based in  Falls Church , Virginia. “Solyndra will be hard
to top because they got $535 million versus the $70 million
Abound got.”  Abound, formerly known as AVA Solar, received praise from
Republicans in Congress expecting jobs in their states, and won
part of a $60 million grant that provided early funding under
 George W. Bush ’s Energy Department.  Opening Doors  “These are the kinds of people who can open doors and get
a little more access,”  Bill Allison , editorial director at the
Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based group that promotes
transparency in government, said in an interview. ’’We’re seeing
it with Abound just like we saw it with Solyndra.’’  Republican members of the Indiana delegation, including
Senator  Richard Lugar  and Representative Dan Burton, wrote
Energy Secretary Steven Chu an Oct. 30, 2009, letter indicating
their “strong support and encouragement” for the solar
company’s loan application.  Abound had planned to build a manufacturing facility in
Tipton County, Indiana, at a closed automotive plant.  “Abound Solar plans to create almost a thousand full-time
jobs that the company and state officials estimate will generate
several hundred million dollars in revenue, in addition to
increased levels of economic activity in the region,” the
lawmakers wrote in the letter, which was also signed by then-
Senator Evan Bayh and Representative Pete Visclosky, both
Democrats, among others.  Suspending Operations  Another Abound investor, DCM Venture Capital, has two
Republican donors on its payroll -- Bob Hawk, who hosted a fund
raiser for Senator  John McCain , and  Dixon Doll , who contributed
to Representative Paul Ryan’s Prosperity political action
committee.  The solar company borrowed $70 million against its $400
million Energy Department guarantee to complete a factory in
Colorado. It announced yesterday that it’s suspending
operations, as House Republicans aim to close an investigation
into the government’s support for Solyndra.  Abound said its thin-film panels couldn’t compete against
Chinese products, the same reason cited by Solyndra. It plans to
file for bankruptcy in Wilmington, Delaware, next week and will
fire about 125 employees, according to a  statement  yesterday.  Cliff Stearns , the chairman of the House Energy and
Commerce Committee’s oversight panel that has held hearings
related to Solyndra’s guarantee, said yesterday he didn’t think
Abound’s closure warranted its own investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  