-- Abound Failure Revives Debate Over Obama Solar Policies
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/abound-failure-revives-debate-over-obama-solar-policies.html
The failure of a second solar
manufacturer that received loan guarantees from the U.S. Energy
Department adds to pressure on President  Barack Obama  to justify
incentives for the clean-energy industry that’s being undercut
by Chinese competition.  Abound Solar Inc., a U.S. solar manufacturer that was
awarded a $400 million loan guarantee in 2010,  said  yesterday it
will suspend operations and file for bankruptcy next week.  Abound said its thin-film panels couldn’t compete against
Chinese products, the same reason cited by Solyndra LLC, which
closed its doors in August after receiving a $535 million
guarantee from the same program. Half of the four solar
manufacturers that received loan guarantees have failed,
supporting the argument that backing clean-energy is a mistake,
according to Representative  Cliff Stearns .  “We know why they went bankrupt. We warned them they would
go bankrupt,” Stearns, a Florida Republican, told reporters
yesterday. “The larger question is why the administration was
pursuing a green-energy policy in which companies are going
bankrupt and wasting taxpayer money.”  Stearns is chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee’s oversight panel that has held hearings on the Energy
Department’s loan guarantee program.  Representative  Jim Jordan , an  Ohio Republican  and chairman
of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s
stimulus oversight panel that has investigated loan guarantees
to solar companies, said Abound’s failure is further proof the
Energy Department program was a mistake.  “It just adds to the weight of how ridiculous this was,”
Jordan told reporters.  Taxpayer Losses  Abound plans to file for bankruptcy in Wilmington,
 Delaware , next week and will fire about 125 employees, according
to a  statement  yesterday.  The company, based in Loveland,  Colorado , borrowed about
$70 million against its guarantee. U.S. taxpayers may lose $40
million to $60 million on the loan after Abound’s assets are
sold and the bankruptcy proceeding closes,  Damien LaVera , an
Energy Department spokesman, said in a  statement .  “When the floor fell out on the price of solar panels,
Abound’s product was no longer cost competitive,” LaVera said.  Abound stopped production in February to focus on reducing
costs after a global oversupply and increasing competition from
 China  drove down the  price  of solar panels by half last year.  “Aggressive pricing actions from Chinese solar-panel
companies have made it very difficult for an early stage startup
company like Abound to scale in current market conditions,” the
company said in the statement.  Unbuilt Factory  Abound was awarded the loan guarantee to build two
factories to make thin-film panels using cadmium telluride. It
completed one plant, in Longmont, Colorado, and never began
construction on the second, which was planned for Tipton,
 Indiana . The company last received money from the Energy
Department in August, before Solyndra’s collapse.  Representative Dan Burton, an Indiana Republican, said he
supported Abound because he thought the company would boost his
state’s economy.  “We had a terrible economic problem. Plants were closing
there in that area,” Burton told reporters yesterday. “We
thought this would be a great way to create jobs. If I had known
that Abound, or Solyndra, had been in the fiscal situation it
was in, I certainly would have never supported it.”  No Surprise  “This is not surprising at all,”  Anthony Kim , an analyst
at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in New York, said in an
interview. “They were trying to sell to a competitive, over-
supplied market with limited production. That keeps costs
high.”  The Energy Department has provided almost $35 billion in
loans, loan guarantees and conditional commitments to renewable-
energy companies. About 35 percent of that is for solar-
generating projects, which benefit from falling panel prices,
compared with less than 4 percent for solar manufacturers,
according to LaVera.  Besides Abound and Solyndra, two other solar manufacturers
received loan guarantees. 1366 Technologies Inc. won approval to
borrow as much as $150 million to produce polysilicon for solar
panels and SoloPower Inc. was awarded a $197 million guarantee
to make rolls of flexible solar panels using a copper-indium-
gallium-selenide composite.  Neither 1366 nor SoloPower have drawn funding under the
Energy Department program, LaVera said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  