-- Absa Managers Lose Credibility on Bad Loans, Old Mutual Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-06-29T15:39:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/absa-managers-lose-credibility-on-bad-loans-old-mutual-says-1-.html
The management of  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA) ,
the South African bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , lost
“credibility” after posting a surprise fall in profit related
to bad mortgages, an Old Mutual Plc analyst said.  Absa’s  share price  plunged 8.3 percent on June 26, the
biggest fall in a decade, after the Johannesburg-based lender
forecast rising bad loans would lead to a fall of as much as 10
percent in first-half profit before one-time items. The stock
fell for a fourth session today. Impairments rose for home
loans, while asset and revenue growth was “muted,” Absa said.  “Absa’s management will have to work hard to regain
credibility,” Tracy Brodziak, a banking analyst at  Old Mutual
Investment Group South Africa (OML) , Absa’s fourth largest
shareholder, said in a telephone interview from  Cape Town  on
June 27. “They’re off their game. Maybe this gives them a
wakeup call.”  Absa,  South Africa ’s second-largest home lender after
 Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) , cut the amount set aside for mortgage
loan losses last year even as its three biggest local
competitors increased provisions. It reduced the amount to 17
percent of mortgages from 19 percent in the first half of 2011.
Rivals  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR)  and  Standard Bank  provided 20 percent and
 Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  covered more than 28 percent.  Absa Specific?  “If it’s an Absa specific issue, then they were wrong with
their provisioning in December,” Brodziak said. Absa needs to
get its loan loss provisions “back up to where everyone else
is,” said Brodziak, who estimates that Absa may have a bad debt
charge of about 3.5 billion rand ($410 million) in the first
half of this year.  Early arrears on most portfolios continue to improve, “our
underlying businesses are gaining momentum and we are showing
progress,” Absa said in an e-mailed response to questions
yesterday. “Economic conditions continue to be difficult and
distressed customers remain under pressure.”  Since South Africa emerged from its recession in 2009, bad
debts in the mortgage market had fallen until Absa’s warning on
June 26. This year South African  house prices  have dropped with
Absa recording a fall of 1.6 percent in May from a year earlier,
after dropping 0.6 percent in April.  Management Departures  Absa’s lack of clarity on how its specific provision model
would “require such significant revision given a few weak data
points in April and May is doing little to add to management’s
credibility, which is already under pressure following numerous
senior management departures,” Voyt Krzychylkiewicz, the
second-highest rated banks analyst in South Africa according to
Johannesburg-based Financial Mail’s 2012 rankings, said in a
note to SBG Securities clients on June 27.  Since September last year at least eight Absa executives
have resigned including Chairman Garth Griffin, Deputy Chief
Executive Officer Louis von Zeuner, consumer banking head Gavin Opperman and head of communications John Dludlu. Absa has been
reorganizing its business to integrate operations with Barclays
both in South Africa and the rest of the continent.  FirstRand, the country’s second-largest financial services
group, said it doesn’t expect to show an increase in total bad
debts. Nedbank CEO  Mike Brown  reiterated in an e-mailed
statement comments by the bank last month that its credit-loss
ratio continued to improve. Standard Bank’s credit impairment
charges “reflect some increase as portfolio provisions are
created in line with book growth,” Simon Ridley, the lender’s
financial director, said in an e-mailed statement.  “It sounds like this was very much Absa specific, although
we do expect bad debts to be flat from here for other banks,”
said Neville Chester, who helps oversee 296 billion rand at
 Coronation Fund Managers Ltd. (CML) , which is Absa’s fifth largest
shareholder according to the lender’s data. “I don’t expect
other bank profits to drop.”  Absa, which wiped out more than 12 billion rand of its
market value this week, rose the most in a month, jumping 1.6
percent to 141.20 rand at the 5 p.m. close in Johannesburg
trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  