-- Accenture Gains After Quarterly Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-06-29T20:28:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/accenture-gains-after-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates.html
Accenture Plc (ACN) , the world’s second-
largest technology-consulting company, rose the most in 18
months after reporting quarterly earnings that topped analysts’
estimates, as corporations seek savings through outsourcing and
advice.  Accenture advanced 6.1 percent to $60.09 at the close in
New York, for the biggest one-day increase since December 2010.
The Dublin-incorporated company’s shares have risen 13 percent
this year.  Accenture, which trails only  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  in technology-consulting sales, is expanding in
growth markets outside the U.S. and says American companies
emerged from the financial crisis stronger and more streamlined.
Client cost-cutting efforts are driving outsourcing growth in
 Europe .  In Europe “what we’ve seen is some moderation of our
growth in consulting, but as you’ve noted, very strong and
positive growth in the outsourcing,” Chief Executive Officer
Pierre Nanterme said yesterday on a conference call. “We
continue to remain positive with the situation in Europe.”  Net income for the fiscal third quarter rose 9.7 percent to
$689.2 million, or $1.03 a share, from $628 million, or 93
cents, a year earlier, according to a statement released
yesterday after the markets closed. Analysts had estimated
earnings excluding some items of 99 cents a share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Outsourcing Opportunities  “In a weakening economic environment, clients look to
outsourcing to lower costs and create variable cost structures
and cut discretionary spending on traditional consulting/systems
integration,”  David Grossman , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus &
Co., said in a client note. “Global diversified players like
ACN and IBM Services typically fare better on a relative basis
in these environments than the large offshore players.” He
recommends buying the shares.  Net sales for the quarter ended May 31 rose 6.5 percent to
$7.15 billion. Analysts had estimated $7.17 billion on average.  The company yesterday also lowered its full-year forecast
to a narrower range, citing foreign currency changes.  Earnings for the year ending in August are expected to be
$3.80 to $3.84 a share, the company said today in a statement.
In March Accenture had  forecast  $3.82 to $3.90. Analysts
projected $3.84, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The company reiterated its March forecast that full-year revenue
will increase 10 percent to 12 percent in local currency.  (Visit www.accenture.com to listen to Accenture executives’
earnings discussion from yesterday.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in  New York  at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  