-- Macfarlane Confirmed by U.S. Senate to Lead Nuclear Regulator
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-06-29T19:58:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/macfarlane-confirmed-by-u-s-senate-to-lead-nuclear-regulator.html
The U.S. Senate confirmed  Allison Macfarlane  to lead the Nuclear Regulatory Commission as it
grapples with aging reactors, long-term atomic waste disposal
and a response to last year’s disaster in Japan.  Macfarlane, a geologist and environmental science
professor, will succeed Chairman  Gregory Jaczko , who quit after
colleagues criticized his management style and accused him of
verbally abusing female employees. Confirmation was by unanimous
consent today.  She will take over a 4,000-employee agency as it considers
issues including how to store spent nuclear fuel and safety
rules implemented after the 2011 triple-meltdown at Japan’s
Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. The commission this year gave  Southern
Co. (SO)  of Atlanta and  Scana Corp. (SCG)  of Cayce, South Carolina, the
first U.S. nuclear-plant construction permits in more than 30
years. Jaczko had opposed issuing the licenses.  “We’ve always believed that we need a full commission at
the NRC, that’s the most effective,” Adrian Heymer, an
executive director for Fukushima response coordination at the
Nuclear Energy Institute, told reporters. “The very fact that
the administration moved quickly on that to ensure that we
maintain a full commission I think is positive.  Senate also confirmed Kristine Svinicki, who joined the
panel during Republican President  George W. Bush ’s
administration, for a second term. Lawmakers agreed to support
both of President  Barack Obama ’s nominees together, to ensure
the five-person panel has a full complement of members.  Boxer, Svinicki  Democratic Senator  Barbara Boxer  of California, chairman of
the committee overseeing the agency, opposed Svinicki’s re-
nomination, citing what she called contradictory statements made
to the panel related to her involvement in Yucca Mountain, the
federal atomic-waste dump site in Nevada. Republicans have said
Macfarlane, a member of the U.S. panel considering waste-storage
options, lacks management experience.  ‘‘It is my hope that Dr. Macfarlane can rectify the crisis
of leadership of her predecessor and begin a much more collegial
chapter at the NRC,” said Senator  James Inhofe  of Oklahoma, the
top Republican on the Environment and Public Works Committee.  NRC employees “perceived” the behavior of Jaczko as
“intimidating and bullying,” according to a report from the
agency’s inspector general, obtained today by Bloomberg News.  While the watchdog found that Jaczko’s December 2011
testimonies before the Congress were inconsistent with
statements provided by NRC senior officials to the inspector
general, the matter doesn’t warrant prosecution, the watchdog
said, citing consultations with the Justice Department.  Macfarlane still must complete her appointment paperwork,
including a letter designating her as chairman signed by Obama
before she starts work, according to  Eliot Brenner , an NRC
spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  