-- Ackman Puts Stamp on Canadian Pacific With New CEO
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-06-29T21:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/ackman-puts-stamp-on-canadian-pacific-with-new-ceo.html
William Ackman  had to wait only six
weeks after winning a proxy fight at  Canadian Pacific Railway
Ltd. (CP)  for his choice as chief executive officer to get the job.
Achieving his profitability targets for the least efficient of
 North America ’s major railroads may take several years.  Ackman and the board elected in May are betting that the
CEO named today, 67-year-old Hunter Harrison, can pull off a
turnaround similar to the one he oversaw at  Canadian National
Railway Co. (CNR)  Harrison has said he can cut operating expenses to
65 percent in 2015 compared with 80.1 percent of sales in the
three months through March.  Succeeding will require navigating challenges from labor
negotiations to installing the right management team and
trimming costs, analysts said, possibly by reducing the
workforce and shrinking the railroad’s locomotive fleet.  “For him to get the operating ratio down to 65 percent
it’s going to take him four or five years,” said Scott Nicholls, a senior analyst with Bishop, Rosen & Co. in  New York .
“You just can’t do things overnight. It took  Hunter Harrison  at
Canadian National eight or nine years to get the operating ratio
down 10 percentage points.”  If Harrison fails, Ackman may face a backlash from
shareholders over his proxy fight to oust former CEO  Fred Green 
and reshape the railroad’s board.  Biggest Shareholder  Ackman, whose  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP became
the railroad’s  biggest shareholder  in October, won election of
all seven of his nominees to a 16-member board in May. Green and
five previous directors resigned hours before the planned vote,
and two more incumbents have left since.  “There are aspirations to shake things up in the short
term but that’s not that easy to do,”  Robert Schulz , a
professor at the University of Calgary business school, said in
a telephone interview. “Union contracts have to get settled,
otherwise you won’t know what the cost structure looks like
going forward.”  Harrison has said that if he became CEO, his first task
would be to meet with employees, and that he prefers to work
with the team in place.  “I know you, your colleagues and the company have been
through unsettling times lately,” Harrison said in a letter to
employees. “My immediate focus in the coming weeks will be to
get out on the property to meet you and learn as much as I can
about the operation.”  The new CEO probably will “evaluate the current people on
his management team there and make some changes, bring in his
own people and then embark on a plan to turn CP around,”  Jason Seidl , a New York-based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a
telephone interview.  Not Quarters  That plan probably will “take a few years, not a few
quarters,” Seidl said. “I think he’s going to convey that to
the investment community. If anyone can do it, he’s got to be
the top of the list.”  One of Harrison’s first tasks is union negotiations. The
Teamsters  Canada  Rail Conference, which represents more than
4,000 engineers, conductors and rail-traffic controllers, went
on strike in May after contract talks that began in October
stalled over the company’s pension plan.  Canada passed legislation May 31 ordering the Teamsters
back to work. The law sent all unresolved issues between
 Canadian Pacific  and the union to binding arbitration, giving
the two sides 90 days to settle on a new contract or face one
drawn up by the arbitrator.  Labor Trust  Harrison will probably “resolve CP’s labor issues, given
he has established a level of trust with the various unions over
a 10-year relationship,” Benoit Poirier, an analyst at
Desjardins Capital Markets in  Montreal  said in a report today.
Of about 16,000 employees “we would not be surprised to see a
reduction in the total workforce by 2,000 to 3,000 employees,”
Poirier said, adding the job losses would probably occur through
attrition.  Harrison is likely to reduce the size of Canadian Pacific’s
fleet of about 1,700 locomotives, possibly by 20 percent to 25
percent, Poirier said. The new CEO may remove as many as 34,500
railcars, which “would be a key driver in terms of improving
CP’s operating ratio,” he said.  Canadian Pacific gained 1.6 percent to C$74.72 at the close
in Toronto. That pushed the stock to a 22 percent advance since
Oct. 27, the day before Ackman disclosed Pershing’s stake.  Harrison’s former employer, which cut off his pension and
benefits after he became a candidate to lead its smaller
competitor, said today it wouldn’t try to block his appointment
“at this time.”  Canadian National  Canadian National  “is concerned that it will be difficult,
if not impossible, for Mr. Harrison to perform his new duties
for CP without drawing upon his broad knowledge of CN’s
confidential information, which he is not permitted to do,”
Mark Hallman, a spokesman, said in a statement.  The railroad has sought court confirmation of its right to
terminate benefits and may seek a court injunction later “if it
appears that Mr. Harrison is using confidential CN
information,” Hallman said.  Ackman has said Canadian National’s litigation over
Harrison’s benefits was “frivolous” and that Pershing Square
would indemnify him against any losses.  The hedge fund manager sought a management change to boost
returns for Canadian Pacific, which had lagged behind its peers
on profitability measures since Green took the helm in 2006.  Harrison succeeds interim chief Stephen Tobias, a board
member nominated by Ackman and the former operating chief of
Norfolk, Virginia-based  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC)   Harrison has “a terrific reputation,”  Cameron Doerksen ,
an analyst at National Bank Financial in Montreal, said in a
telephone interview. “He lends a significant amount of
credibility to CP’s efforts to improve” its profitability.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  