-- Actor Broderick Joins Opposition to NYU’s Expansion Plan
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-29T19:23:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/actor-broderick-joins-neighbor-opposition-to-nyu-expansion-plan.html
Hundreds of  Greenwich Village 
residents, including actor  Matthew Broderick , filled the  New
York City  Council chambers today seeking to block a 2 million-
square-foot expansion by  New York University .  “They might need to expand, but they certainly don’t need
to destroy the Village,” said Broderick, a longtime resident of
the neighborhood who starred in the movie “Ferris Bueller’s
Day Off” and the Broadway musical “The Producers.”  The actor, who is married to actress Sarah Jessica Parker,
was joined by hundreds of residents, including NYU faculty. They
called for the council to stop the project, saying it was out of
scale with the rest of the neighborhood.  Broderick grew up in Greenwich Village and returned to live
there after starting his acting career. The neighborhood, which
surrounds Washington Square Park, is characterized by tree-lined
streets and low-rise homes and shops. It’s been home to the
artists  Edward Hopper  and  Jackson Pollock , Edgar Allan Poe,
 Henry James ,  Mark Twain , Buddy Holly,  Bob Dylan , the writer-
activist Jane Jacobs and punk rocker Joey Ramone.  “They have to find a way to not ruin the thing that makes
people want to come here,” Broderick said.  NYU’s  expansion  is part of 6-million-square-foot, 20-year
growth plan costing from $3 billion to $4 billion. It also
includes a nursing school near the university’s hospital on the
East Side and an applied-sciences school in downtown  Brooklyn .
The project must win zoning approval from the City Council to go
forward. The  Planning Commission  passed the application to the
council after approving it June 6.  Scaled Down  NYU, which has more students than any private nonprofit
university in the U.S., scaled down its original proposal by
about 377,000 square feet in April. The change followed
negotiations with  Manhattan  Borough President Scott Stringer, a
Democrat who has expressed interest in running for mayor in
2013.  The deal with Stringer helped win Planning Commission
approval, though it didn’t end opposition by neighbors. Local
 Community Board 2  rejected it unanimously.  “The fundamental reason for the board’s rejection of the
plan is the firm belief that the bulk and density permitted by
the plan would forever alter the character of this special
neighborhood,” Brad Hoylman, chairman of the community board,
told the Planning Commission in April.  NYU President John Sexton told City Council members the
institution needed the added facilities to “decompress the
student population and faculty,” which he said have grown over
the past 30 years as the school emerged as an international
research center.  Faculty Opposition  One of the proposed structures, the 790,000-square-foot
 Zipper Building , would combine student and faculty housing,
classrooms, a gymnasium and street-level retail space south of
Washington Square.  “We understood that when we decided to do this building
where we’re doing it, there would be faculty opposition because
this is where they live,” Sexton said. Most faculty members
agree that the university needs to expand, just not near where
they live, Sexton told the council.  Among the project’s economic benefits, Sexton promised,
would be 18,200 construction jobs, 2,600 long-term employment
opportunities, $490 million in economic output and almost $27
million a year in taxes over 20 years.  `Clear Consensus'  Beyond those benefits, he said, “there is a clear
consensus among our city’s leaders and leading thinkers about
the important linkage between higher education and the economy,
and between the economy and  New York  City’s future well-being.”  Sexton said that as a law school dean and university
president, he has resided in Greenwich Village for 30 years, and
viewed the university’s location as an asset that attracts top
students and faculty.  The argument didn’t impress some council members.  “The amount of density that NYU has proposed is out of
scale with the surrounding community,” said Councilwoman
Margaret Chin, a Democrat who represents the neighborhood and
described the plan as “unacceptable in its current form.”  Councilwoman Jessica Lappin, a Democrat from Manhattan’s
Upper East Side, told Sexton “the proposal seems too dense, too
big, tall, too much.” She told him she hopes the council can
work with him to modify the project.  She noted the neighborhood’s character and told Sexton,
“there is a sense that you are overwhelming it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  