-- Adobe Doesn’t Infringe Tarkus Imaging Patent, Jury Decides
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-06-29T20:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/adobe-doesn-t-infringe-tarkus-imaging-patent-jury-decides.html
Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , the largest
maker of graphic-design software, won’t have to pay more than $7
million in royalties after a federal jury today decided it
didn’t infringe a patent owned by Tarkus Imaging Inc.  The jury of seven women in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
deliberated about four hours following a two-week trial before
also deciding Tarkus’s 2003 patent is valid.  “Adobe doesn’t infringe this patent,” said lawyer Frank Scherkenbach, representing Adobe, in his closing argument “It’s
not magic. It’s very black and white,” he told jurors.  “We believe we’ve satisfied our burden of proof,”
attorney  Frederick Lorig , representing San Jose, California-
based Tarkus, said in his summation. He said another rival, a
U.S. unit of  Nikon Corp. (7731) , paid $7 million for the  patent rights 
and that Adobe should do the same.  Neither lawyer would comment after the verdict.  Adobe, also based in San Jose, was sued by inventor  Jack M.
Holm ’s Tarkus in 2010 for allegedly using the protected
technology for processing digital color images in its Adobe
Photoshop products.  Holm, who taught technical photography at Rochester
Institute of Technology as a graduate student, worked at
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  from 1997 to 2008 and left to form Tarkus,
according to the complaint.  Canon Inc. (7751) ’s U.S.A. unit of Lake Success, New York, was
also sued in the case and settled with Tarkus under undisclosed
terms just before its scheduled closing argument yesterday,
Lorig told U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark.  Advisory Verdict  The jury wasn’t informed of the settlement. In their
verdict sheet, jurors also said Canon didn’t infringe. By that
time the Canon settlement had been decided and Stark said he’d
consider it an advisory verdict  Adobe spokeswoman Marissa Lee didn’t immediately return
voice and e-mail messages seeking comment on the verdict. Holm
wasn’t immediately available to comment in  San Jose .  The case is Tarkus Imaging Inc. v. Adobe Systems Inc.,
10CV63, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 6,628,823.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  