-- AutoNavi Surges as ADRs Climb on Europe Debt Deal: Overni
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/ambow-surges-as-adrs-climb-on-europe-debt-deal-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
posted the biggest monthly gain since February as regulators
approved funds tracking  Hong Kong  shares and European leaders
agreed to ease the region’s debt crisis.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in New York added 1 percent last month after
jumping 2.9 percent to 91.21 on June 29.  E-Commerce China
Dangdang Inc. (DANG) , the nation’s biggest online book retailer, jumped
34 percent last month after the company said it will run online
book and media sales for  China ’s largest Internet company.
 AutoNavi Holdings Ltd. (AMAP) , a digital map content provider in
Beijing, surged 21 percent in June.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  climbed to a
five-month high after crude oil surged.  Leaders of the European Union, where China sends about 20
percent of its overseas sales, dropped requirements that
taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s banks
and opened the way to recapitalize lenders directly. China’s
securities regulator yesterday approved the first two exchange-
traded funds on the Shanghai and Shenzhen bourses to track Hong
Kong stock indexes.  “Expectations were low before the leaders’ meeting and any
type of deal that was negotiated would have been a positive
surprise,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief investment officer at New
York-based Solaris Group, which manages about $2 billion in
assets, said in a phone interview on June 29. “China, given the
opportunity for significant growth, is opening itself up to more
investment and easier investment, and that’s a huge positive for
financial markets.”  China ETF Surges  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., soared 3.6 percent on June 29
to a one-month high of $33.67, ending the month up 0.5 percent.
The Shanghai Composite Index of mainland stocks advanced 1.3
percent to 2,225.43, trimming its June loss to 6.2 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares surged 2.5 percent to
1,362.16 on June 29 for a monthly increase of 4 percent.  Qianhai, part of the Shenzhen economic zone in southern
China, becomes a test ground for freer  yuan  usage and capital
account convertibility, the National Development and Reform
Commission said. Companies in Qianhai will be encouraged to sell
yuan-denominated bonds in Hong Kong and to experiment with
cross-border loans in the Chinese currency,  Zhang Xiaoqiang , the
vice chairman of the national planner, said at a press
conference in the city June 29.  ‘Full Convertibility’  “The steps are all going in the same direction, so the
eventual destination will be the full convertibility of the
Chinese currency and the opening-up of China’s financial
markets,” Geoffrey Lunt, a senior product specialist for fixed
income at HSBC Global Asset Management, said in a June 29
interview at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  E-Commerce, also known as Dangdang, added 2.5 percent in
its third day of rally to $6.66. Its 34 percent surge in June
was the most among the Bloomberg China stock measure.  Beijing-based Dangdang signed an agreement with  Tencent
Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet company, to operate the
sales of book and media for Tencent’s online store, it said in a
statement June 29.  AutoNavi jumped 3.2 percent on June 29 to $13.41, the
highest level in four months. The Beijing-based company said in
a June 18 statement its application had been pre-installed on
Samsung Electronics Co.’s Galaxy S III smartphone. Separately,
Apple Inc. selected AutoNavi as its partner for mapping content
of the mainland China, Marbridge Consulting Ltd. said on a June
18  report  on the company’s website.  Cnooc’s Premium  Cnooc, China’s biggest offshore oil explorer, rose 4.7
percent on June 29 to $201.25, the highest level since Jan. 5.
The 12 percent advance in its American depositary receipts last
month was the steepest in five months. The ADRs, each
representing 100 underlying shares in the company, traded 1.4
percent above its Hong Kong stock, the widest  premium  since June
19.  The Bloomberg gauge for Chinese companies traded in the
U.S. sank 11 percent in the second quarter, after gaining 14
percent in the first.  At least four economists cut their growth estimates for the
world’s second-largest economy in the last two weeks, with Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. reducing its second-quarter forecast to
7.8 percent from 8.2 percent on June 27. Gross domestic product
grew 8.1 percent in the three months to March 30, the least
since the second quarter of 2009.  China Medical  Trading of  China Medical Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s ADRs was
suspended by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June
29, which cited questions on the accuracy of the company’s
information. The regulator ordered a temporary suspension ending
on July 13, according to a  statement  on the SEC’s website.  Bondholders of China Medical, which is registered in the
 Cayman Islands , directed the Wilmington Trust Co. to file a so-
called winding-up petition on June 15 with the Grand Court of
the Cayman Islands to liquidate the company after it defaulted
on interest payment on two notes from December.  The SEC enforcement action “further reiterates concern
investors have expressed regarding financial reporting and
corporate governance at Chinese companies over the past two
years,” Kevin Barnes, an equity analyst at Absaroka Capital
Management LLC, said by phone June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  