-- AMC Risks Millions of Viewers in Fights With Dish, AT&T
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/amc-risks-millions-of-viewers-in-fights-with-dish-at-t.html
AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX)  will lose as many
as 18 million subscribers, almost a fifth of its audience, if it
can’t reach a deal with two of the largest U.S. pay-TV services
by midnight tonight.  The cable programmer behind “Breaking Bad” and “The
Walking Dead” will have its channels removed by  Dish Network
Corp. (DISH)  and  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse at 11:59 p.m. New York time if it
can’t reach new fee agreements with the two pay-TV systems.  AMC, which operates the AMC, IFC and We TV channels, said
in an e-mail it faces “separate and distinct” issues with the
companies. AMC accuses Dish of “retaliation” over a lawsuit
that may cost the satellite service $2.5 billion. The AT&T fight
is over prices, which suggests a last-minute deal is more
likely, said Brett Harriss, a Gabelli & Co. analyst.  “AT&T is a garden-variety rate dispute,” said Harriss.
“The Dish situation is much more complicated. There’s going to
be a lot of litigation, and maybe the AMC solution is part of a
settlement.”  New York-based AMC, spun off by  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
last year, is party to a lawsuit that its former parent brought
against Dish in 2008. Cablevision sued for breach of contract
after Dish, based in Englewood,  Colorado , said it would stop
carrying 15 high-definition channels called Voom HD.  Cablevision invested more than $100 million a year in the
project, according to court papers. The Bethpage, New York-based
company expected to lose money until enough Dish customers
signed up to recoup the investment. The deal called for
Cablevision to receive as much as $6.43 a month for each Dish
high-definition TV customer.  ‘Litigation’ Motivated  AMC reaches 96.3 million households, according to the
company’s annual report. Dish has 14 million subscribers and U-
verse has about 4 million, company reports show.  Josh Sapan, AMC chief executive officer, said last month
Dish’s decision to drop the channels is “litigation
motivated.” His company stands to receive 50 percent of any
settlement between Dish and Cablevision over Voom, Harriss said.  Dish Chairman  Charlie Ergen  said last month he wants to
lower bills for consumers, and taking out networks with “very,
very, very low viewership,” outside of a few popular shows, is
a way to keep prices down.  Shares of AMC fell 1.3 percent to $35.55 yesterday at the
close in New York. Dish rose 3.6 percent to $28.55 and
Cablevision gained 2.6 percent to $13.29.  AMC will lose about $90 million in profit from lost
subscriber fees if the channels are gone from Dish for a year,
Harriss said. Being off Dish and AT&T for a full year would
result in $89 million less in AMC advertising revenue, said
Harriss, who also estimates the company receives on average
$0.54 cents a month per subscriber from pay-TV systems.  Programming Costs  The company is boosting spending on original programs as it
transitions from an ad-supported movie channel to one with more
original shows, Harriss said. That’s motivating AMC to ask for
higher affiliate fees, according to  David Joyce , an analyst at
Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  AMC’s shows include “Mad Men,” “Breaking Bad,” which
begins its next season July 15, and “The Walking Dead,” the
highest-rated cable drama from Feb. 12 to March 18 this year,
according to Nielsen data.  Dish is replacing AMC with HDNet commercial-free movies.
HDNet’s main channel, with shows such as “Bikini Barbershop”
and “Drinking Made Easy,” will stand in for IFC, the AMC-owned
independent film channel. The Style channel will replace We TV,
a network aimed at women.  Last Minute  AT&T said this week it hadn’t reached terms on a new
contract because AMC is asking for “nearly double” what
competing pay-TV services pay. Last minute deals in contract
talks between pay-TV operators and programmers are common, said
Amy Yong, an analyst for Macquarie Capital USA Inc.  AMC and AT&T reached a final-day agreement two years ago,
avoiding a programming halt in a similar stand-off over fees.  AT&T hasn’t said what channels will replace AMC if it fails
to reach an agreement, and negotiations between the two sides
continue, said Dawn Benton, an AT&T spokeswoman.  “I don’t think that it is unique to have these types of
disputes from any content owner and TV network,” said Yong.
“It’s just unfortunate that two high TV profile negotiators are
doing this at the same time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  