-- AMR Said to Seek Extension to File Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/amr-said-to-seek-extension-to-file-bankruptcy-plan.html
American Airlines parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) 
will seek a three-month extension to its exclusive right to file
bankruptcy reorganization plan as a pilots union vote pushes
back the timetable for winning labor savings.  A request may be filed as soon as next week in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, said people familiar with the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private. AMR
said yesterday in a statement the move is being made jointly
with its unsecured creditors committee, without details.  Extending the deadline to Dec. 27 from Sept. 28 would delay
any formal merger proposal to creditors from  US Airways Group
Inc. (LCC) , which is weighing a takeover. It also may mean missing
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton ’s goal of a 2012 bankruptcy
exit as he works to keep  Fort Worth , Texas-based American
independent while the airline restructures.  “More time does not mean we will slow down,” Missy Cousino, an airline spokeswoman, said in a separate e-mailed
statement, without giving details of AMR’s plans. “We have one
chance to get this restructuring right, so it’s important we
approach this process in a methodical and disciplined manner.”  While  pilots union  leaders agreed this week to let members
vote on $315 million in givebacks, balloting won’t end until
Aug. 8. That timeline wasn’t part of AMR’s initial bid to secure
concessions in bargaining or via a ruling from Bankruptcy Judge
Sean Lane in  New York  to void existing contracts by yesterday.  Pilots Vote  The extension made sense for AMR because of the six weeks
required for the pilots union to brief members on the tentative
contract and then conduct a vote, one person said. The airline
is set to resume talks on givebacks next week with flight
attendants, mechanics and aircraft stock clerks.  Creditors secured an agreement in May for American, the
third-largest U.S. airline, to vet consolidation options against
its independent plan. That process was supposed to begin before
the September expiration of the current exclusivity period,
people familiar with the plan said at the time.  Telephone and e-mail messages left for  Jack Butler , the
attorney for the creditors committee, weren’t returned.  US
Airways  declined to comment, said Todd Lehmacher, a spokesman.  US Airways fell 0.5 percent to $13.33 at the close
yesterday in New York, as rising oil prices damped U.S.
airlines’ shares amid a rally for broader market indexes. Tempe,
Arizona-based US Airways has more than doubled this year on
speculation that an AMR bid would be successful.  Labor Concessions  Horton said this month that the struggle to obtain labor
concessions was the biggest threat to his target to have AMR
leave bankruptcy in 2012, after filing for court protection on
Nov. 29. AMR’s plan calls for cutting $2 billion from annual
spending, with $1.25 billion in savings from labor.  Lane has delayed until Aug. 15, after the pilots vote, a
ruling on whether American can reject the contracts of flight
attendants, mechanics and stock clerks if agreements aren’t
reached before that deadline.  The mechanics and clerks are represented by the Transport
Workers Union, which has had five other work groups, including
baggage handlers and other airport ground employees, agree with
American on concessions.  US Airways already has secured agreements with American’s
unions that would take effect if the airlines combined. While
the carrier hasn’t made a formal offer, it has been building
support for its plan among AMR’s bondholders and other
creditors.  US Airways can’t offer an alternative reorganization plan
until the court ends AMR’s exclusivity rights. The creditors
committee has the right to ask Lane to end that period.  The case is In re AMR Corp., 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  