-- Annan Looks to Overcome Russia Misgivings Over Syria Plan
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n ,   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-06-30T11:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/annan-looks-to-overcome-russia-misgivings-over-syria-plan.html
United Nations special envoy  Kofi Annan  is looking to overcome  Russia ’s misgivings about a plan to
end bloodshed in Syria and resolve the fate of President Bashar al-Assad.  Foreign ministers of the five permanent UN Security Council
members -- China,  France , Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. -- as
well as  Turkey , Qatar,  Kuwait  and  Iraq  will attend a conference
in Geneva today to discuss Annan’s plan. The meeting’s success
may hinge on whether Russia breaks with Assad after shielding
him with Security Council vetoes.  Persuading Assad to step aside and not be part of a
transitional government paving the way for elections lies at the
core of Annan’s plan, which seeks to end 16 months of violence
that has claimed more than 10,000 lives. About 4,000 Syrians
have been killed since Annan took on the peacemaking mission in
February, according to the Local Coordination Committees, an
activist group.  Annan, who also represents the  Arab League , said yesterday
he’s optimistic that the meeting would yield an “acceptable
result” on how to proceed with a handover of power.  Russian Foreign Minster  Sergei Lavrov , after meeting with
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  yesterday in St.
Petersburg, said he wants changes in Annan’s plan.  U.S.-Russia Gap  They agreed on “most of” the plan, Lavrov said, while
telling reporters afterwards that he is seeking unspecified
changes. Lavrov said Russia and the U.S. agree that Annan’s
proposals “aren’t untouchable,” and he predicted a compromise.  “We’ll find a way out in Geneva,” Lavrov said.  Clinton and Lavrov failed to resolve their differences
during nearly an hour of one-on-one talks, said a State
Department official, who asked for anonymity because the
discussions are private. Clinton pointed to the dangers of Syria
leading to a wider regional conflict, the official said, adding
that the two ministers agreed to go to Geneva out of respect for
Annan, knowing an accord may not be reached there.  The discussions remain challenging, the official said about
an hour after the full action group began its meeting in Geneva.  Clinching a deal with Russia and China “remains very
difficult,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  told
journalists today as he arrived for the meeting. “I don’t know
whether it will be possible to do so. In the interests of saving
thousands of lives and of our international responsibilities, we
will try to do so, but of course there will be no point signing
up to a worthless agreement or one that does not advance the
situation.”  ‘Key Steps’  Annan’s three-page paper sets out as “key steps in any
transition” the creation of a unity government, which he
defined in terms that would leave out Assad and some members of
his inner circle. The plan says the new government “could
include members of the present government and the opposition and
other groups, but would exclude from government those whose
continued presence and participation would undermine the
credibility of the transition and jeopardize stability and
reconciliation.”  The U.S. refuses to endorse any plan that enables Assad to
remain in power at the top of a transitional administration.  The Syrian leader yesterday said his government rejects any
external solutions to the conflict.  Assad said it’s the
government’s responsibility to wipe out the “terrorists,” as
Syrian authorities refer to rebels. He has said that any future
government in Syria must hold free and fair elections for a
multiparty leadership.  Turkey Tensions  Tensions have also risen with neighboring Turkey, a member
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, after Syria on June
22 shot down a Turkish warplane that it said violated its
territory and Turkey said was in international airspace.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said this week that
Turkey had changed its military rules of engagement after the
incident and that any military force approaching the Turkish
border from Syria could be viewed as a threat and treated as a
military target.  Iran , Syria’s ally, was excluded from the Geneva talks at
the insistence of the U.S., which said the Tehran regime has
provided Assad’s forces with weapons, training and other
support. Russia, which sought to include Iran, then opposed
inviting  Saudi Arabia , which it said is helping arm the Syrian
opposition.  Iran’s exclusion is a mistake, Iranian Ambassador to the UN
Mohammad Khazaee said yesterday in  New York . He criticized
Western nations “and particularly the  United States ” for
failing to consider “the power and influence of Iran.” The
Islamic republic could be “a heavyweight champion in bringing
peace to the region,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Geneva at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  St. Petersburg  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  