-- Anti-Doping Panel Recommends Charges Against Lance Armstrong
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/anti-doping-panel-recommends-charges-against-lance-armstrong.html
Seven-time Tour de France winner
Lance Armstrong will face formal doping charges after a  U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency  review board unanimously recommended the
continuation of an initial investigation.  Armstrong, 40, who could be stripped of his titles, and
five others also accused will be offered the opportunity for a
public hearing before a three-person arbitration panel, USADA
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  If they agree to the hearing, “all evidence would be
presented, witness testimony would be given under oath, and an
independent group of arbitrators would ultimately decide the
outcome of the case,”  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based USADA
said in the statement.  Robert Luskin, one of Armstrong’s attorneys, said in an e-
mailed statement that his client “will consider all of his
options for preserving his record and his good name” over the
next few days.  “USADA’s decision to charge  Lance Armstrong  with doping
violations is wrong and it is baseless,” Luskin said. “It is
the entirely predictable product of USADA’s toxic obsession with
Lance Armstrong and a process in which truth is not a priority.
There is not one shred of credible evidence to support USADA’s
charges and an unbroken record of more than 500 clean tests over
more than a decade and a half to refute it.”  Armstrong, who won cycling’s most prestigious event every
year from 1999-2005, also has been banned from participating in
events organized by the World Triathlon Corp., which runs the
Ironman series and considers athletes who are facing open USADA
investigations ineligible.  Doug Ulman, chief executive officer of the Lance Armstrong
Foundation, which the cyclist founded in 1997 to help cancer
survivors, issued a statement saying “we are concerned about
the integrity and oversight of this proceeding and hope that
Lance will be given the opportunity he deserves to assert his
innocence.”  Potential Penalty  In its June 12 initial charging letter to Armstrong, three
doctors and two officials from the cyclist’s former U.S. Postal
Service team, USADA said that if the case proceeded beyond the
review board it would recommend a sanction that “may include up
to a lifetime period of ineligibility from participation in
sport.”  The U.S. attorney in  Los Angeles  in February ended a
criminal investigation into doping allegations against Armstrong
without pressing charges. He never has been publicly identified
as testing positive for performance-enhancing drugs.  USADA’s allegations against Armstrong include what the
agency says are blood samples collected from him in 2009 and
2010 that were “fully consistent with blood manipulation
including EPO use and/or blood transfusions.”  Blood Doping  EPO is the abbreviation for erythropoietin, which can add
energy-boosting properties to blood. Doping authorities say that
drug, and transfused blood, have been used by athletes in
endurance sports such as cycling and cross-country skiing to
increase performance.  After retiring from competitive cycling, Armstrong has
helped bring more attention to triathlons since returning to the
sport this year. Before the ban he was trying to qualify for the
Ironman World Championship in  Hawaii  in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 