-- AOL Promotes CFO Minson to COO to Reorganize Company
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-06-29T10:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/aol-promotes-cfo-minson-to-coo-to-reorganize-company.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , the online publisher,
promoted Chief Financial Officer Arthur Minson to the role of
chief operating officer, a new position where he will reorganize
AOL’s operations into three units.  Minson will also continue as CFO until a replacement is
found, Chief Executive Officer  Tim Armstrong  said in a telephone
interview. The company has hired executive recruiter Peter Crist
to find a CFO, Armstrong said.  “The move allows me to focus on product development and
day-to-day strategy, while Artie, from an operational
capability, can move us faster to profitability,” Armstrong
said.  Since the web portal was spun out of  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  in
2009, from what Armstrong calls the “worst merger in history,”
he’s been working to transform AOL into an ad-based digital-
publishing business. The company bought the  Huffington Post  for
$315 million last year and invested as much as $300 million in
Patch, a local-news division that Armstrong sees commanding
about $50 million in sales this year.  Minson will reorganize the company’s operations into a
consumer products group that includes the Internet access
business and its e-mail service; content brands including
 Huffington Post  and technology website TechCrunch; and
Advertising.com, its business-to-business advertising group.  ‘Continue Pressing’  Arianna Huffington , editor-in-chief of the Huffington Post,
will continue to report directly to Armstrong while the news
site’s operations will be overseen by Minson. The company’s
sales and technology teams will continue to report directly to
Armstrong, as well as corporate services groups such as human
resources and legal.  “We are organized and ready for the second half of 2012
and we will continue pressing forward aggressively to accelerate
our growth across our businesses,” Armstrong wrote in a memo to
employees distributed today and obtained by Bloomberg News.  The company in May reported a more than fourfold jump in
first-quarter profit on improved online advertising revenue.
Total advertising revenue in the period ending March 31
increased 5 percent to $330.1 million, while U.S. display
advertising fell 1 percent to $118.9 million, the first decline
in the last five quarters.  Facing a slump in sales, AOL agreed in April to sell and
license patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The company is selling more
than 800 patents and related applications to Microsoft and will
grant the software maker a nonexclusive license to its retained
patent portfolio.  Activist Investor  The move has helped lift AOL’s stock price, which has
gained 82 percent so far this year.  The rising stock price bolstered Armstrong’s case as he
fended off an activist investor’s bid to shake up the board
earlier this month. Starboard Value LP, an investment firm
owning 5.3 percent of outstanding shares, had fought to install
three directors, saying AOL was spending too much money on
failed efforts such as the Patch news sites.  The firm also estimated that AOL’s display-advertising
business is losing as much as $500 million annually.  Yesterday, AOL started a $400 million stock repurchase as
part of a plan to return funds to shareholders from the $1.1
billion patent sale. The company, based in  New York , rose less
than 1 percent to $27.50 yesterday at the close.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  