-- AOL, Davis, Megaupload, Anonymous: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-11T21:34:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/aol-davis-megaupload-anonymous-intellectual-property.html
AOL Inc. (AOL) , the New York-based Web
portal, has started a $400 million stock repurchase as part of a
plan to return funds to shareholders from a $1.1 billion patent
sale.  The company is buying the stock using a so-called Dutch
auction tender offer, AOL said yesterday in a statement. The
deal brings the total amount that AOL plans to return to
shareholders this year to $1.1 billion.  AOL, facing a slump in sales, agreed in April to sell and
license patents to  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  The  Internet company  is
selling more than 800 patents and related applications to
Microsoft and will grant the software maker a nonexclusive
license to its retained patent portfolio. AOL still holds more
than 300 patents and applications following the transaction.  Lexmark Seeks Contempt Order in Patent Infringement Suit  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK) , the maker of laser and inkjet
printers, asked a federal court in  Ohio  to declare that a seller
of ink for computers is in contempt of court.  In a June 28 filing, Lexmark claimed that IJSS Inc. of  Los
Angeles  was violating a court order handed down in April 2011
barring the importation of toner cartridges that infringe
Lexmark’s patents.  That order came in a patent-infringement case Lexmark filed
in August 2010 against more than 20 defendants. Lexington,
Kentucky-based Lexmark also filed a complaint with the U.S.
International Trade Commission at that time, seeking an order
barring the import of infringing cartridges.  In its request for a contempt order, Lexmark said that IJSS
is still selling infringing products, some of which are
Lexmark’s own cartridges that were refilled without
authorization.  IJSS, which does business as Ink Jet Superstore, didn’t
respond immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The case is Lexmark International Inc. v. Ink Technologies
Printer Supplies LLC, 10-cv-00564, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Ohio (Cincinnati).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Nuckin Futs’ Gets Trademark in Australia After No Complaints  Because no official complaints about the name were received
during a three-month comment period,  Australia ’s trademark
authority permitted the “Nuckin Futs” trademark to be issued
for a brand of snack products, B&T magazine  reported .  Dan Ratner, managing director at Australia’s  Uberbrand Ltd. 
branding agency, told B&T that the use of controversial-sounding
brands may be on the rise as a way of cutting through the
clutter.  He said the Nuckin Futs campaign has a parallel to the
“ clean your balls ” campaign used by  Unilever Australasia ’s
Lynx shower gel, according to B&T.  Kentucky  Wildcat Anthony Davis Seeks ‘Fear the Brow’ Trademark  Anthony Marshon Davis , who finished his first season
playing basketball for the  University of Kentucky Wildcats , has
applied to register two trademarks related to his  unibrow
eyebrows .  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office , Davis filed applications in the first week of June to
register “fear the brow” and “raise the brow.”  He said he plans to use the marks for a range of products
and services, including cosmetics, lunch boxes, clothing,
entertainment and charitable services and sports-related
services, including sports training and a website related to
basketball.  C. Brandon Browning  of Birmingham, Alabama’s  Maynard Cooper
& Gale PC  filed the trademark applications on behalf of Davis.  There is another pending application for “fear the brow.”
That application was filed in November by John Salcido of
Lexington, Kentucky. Salcido said in his application that he
plans to use the mark for clothing.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload.com Founder Wins Warrant Dispute in New Zealand  Kim Dotcom, the Megaupload.com website founder accused of
orchestrating the biggest copyright-infringement conspiracy in
U.S. history, had his home searched illegally by police, a  New
Zealand  judge ruled.  Helen Winkelmann, the chief justice of the High Court of
New Zealand, which is an intermediate court, yesterday ruled
warrants used by police to search Dotcom’s rented mansion on the
outskirts of Auckland and seize his property, including a pink
Cadillac, were overly broad and invalid.  “Police relied on invalid warrants when they searched the
properties and seized various items,” Winkelmann wrote in a 56-
page decision yesterday. “The search and seizure was therefore
illegal.”  Winkelmann ordered the New Zealand’s Attorney General to
notify U.S. authorities of her decision and request the
voluntary return of copies of Dotcom’s hard drives that were
removed. She also ordered the return of all  computer hardware  to
Dotcom that was seized by police.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment.  An extradition hearing is scheduled for August in New
Zealand.  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January and spent four weeks in jail before being released to
await the extradition hearing.  Officials from the New Zealand Justice Department didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment. New Zealand police
said in a statement the judgment is being reviewed and declined
to comment further.  New Zealand police sought and executed the search warrants
at the request of the U.S. and the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation under a treaty allowing for mutual cooperation in
criminal investigations.  A broad category of items was covered and the FBI intended
to determine if they were relevant to the investigation
offshore, according to Winkelmann’s ruling.  The U.S. “is not entitled to irrelevant material seized
during the search,” Winkelmann wrote, saying that computers and
mobile phones contain personal property including family photos.  The case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-General. Civ
2012-404-1928.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  Surfthechannel.com Owner Convicted in U.K. Copyright Case  The owner of a website that offers links to unauthorized
copies of streaming videos faces a potential 10-year jail
sentence following his conviction in a copyright case in the
U.K., the  BBC   reported .  Anton Vickerman, whose surfthechannel.com website attracted
more than 400,000 visitors a day and generated more than 35,000
pounds ($54,300) in ad revenue a month, is to be sentenced July
30, according to the BBC.  He was convicted of conspiracy to defraud, a charge
criticized by the U.K.’s anti-copyright Pirate Party, which said
the actions Vickerman allegedly performed criminalized conduct
by two or more people “that would not be criminal when
performed by an individual,” according to the BBC.  Vickerman’s wife, who was also charged in the case, wasn’t
convicted, the BBC Reported.  ‘Anonymous” Protests Copyright Law Revisions, Attacks Websites  The international Internet hackers group “Anonymous” has
attacked a number of Japanese government websites in the wake of
revisions to that country’s copyright law, the Yomiuri Shimbun
 reported .  Among the target websites were those of Japan’s  Finance
Ministry ,  Supreme Court  and Land, Infrastructure, Transport and
Tourism Ministry, according to the newspaper.  The new law to which “Anonymous” objects treats illegal
downloading with a two-year prison sentence, Yomiuri Shimbun
reported.  “Anonymous” posted a  statement  on the Internet saying its
“Operation Japan” attack was in direct response to the
enactment of the new law, according to the newspaper.  Stone Roses’ Stand on Photo Rights Wins Boycott in U.K.  British photojournalists were joined by the U.K.’s National
Union of Journalists in a boycott of the band Stone Roses in the
wake of the band’s insistence that press photographers assign
all rights “in perpetuity throughout the world” to the band,
the British Journal of Photography  reported .  Stone Roses also required all contracted photographers to
provide the band “with digital copies of any or all of the
photographs upon request,” according to the publication.  The band’s intransigence on these issues led to a boycott,
John Toner, who organizes freelancers for the union, told the
Journal.  Murray Chalmers, manager of the band’s public relations,
denied there was a boycott, telling the Journal there was a full
quota of photographers attending the band’s performances to
shoot the performers.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Bridgestone Scientist’s Secrets Trial Postponed to Sept. 17  The trial of a Hudson, Ohio, resident accused of stealing
 trade secrets  from  Bridgestone Corp. (5108) ’s Bridgestone center for
Research and Technology has been postponed until Sept. 17,
according to court filings.  Xiaorong Wang, 50, a research scientist at the Akron, Ohio-
based facility, was accused of stealing trade secrets related to
the company’s Project 610. In an affidavit filed by the
government, the secrets are identified as related to polymers
for racing tires and liquid paper powder.  He used his “insider status” at the research center to
steal trade secrets, the government said in a statement in
April. Wang took the trade secrets as part of his plan to
establish a research program related to polymers at  China ’s
Suzhou University, the government claimed.  Wang is represented by Paul F. Adamson of Burdon & Merlitti
of Akron Ohio, who told the Hudson Hub Times that his client
didn’t plan to do anything inappropriate with any Bridgestone
trade secrets.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 5:12-cr-00228-JG, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Akron).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 