-- Samsung Barred From U.S. Nexus Phone Sales in Apple Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-30T06:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/apple-wins-order-blocking-u-s-sales-of-samsung-s-nexus.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of mobile phones, was barred from selling its
Galaxy Nexus smartphone in the U.S. by a second court ruling
this week in its global patent dispute with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The ruling by U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose ,
 California , follows her June 26 order blocking U.S. sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 computer in the patent and trademark-
infringement lawsuit over smartphones and tablets. On June 7,
Koh expedited evidence sharing for Apple’s bid to block sales of
Samsung’s newest Galaxy smartphone, the Galaxy S III.  “Although Samsung will necessarily be harmed by being
forced to withdraw its product from the market before the merits
can be determined after a full trial, the harm faced by Apple
absent an injunction is greater,” Koh said in her ruling
yesterday. “Apple’s interest in enforcing its  patent rights  is
particularly strong because it has presented a strong case on
the merits.”  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles on four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market. After rejecting Apple’s repeated requests for
injunctions blocking sales of Samsung products, Koh, following
an appeals court ruling in Apple’s favor, has granted Apple two
important injunctions this week.  ‘Big Deal’  “It’s a big deal,” said  Carl Howe , an analyst with  Yankee
Group , a Boston-based technology research firm. “Samsung is
perhaps the best and most successful challenge to Apple in the
smartphone business, so to win an injunction against your
biggest competitor is pretty profound.”  Taken with the earlier ruling on the Galaxy Tab, he said,
“It does imply that there will be problems for Samsung.”  Samsung accounts for 29.1 percent of global shipments of
smartphones, according to market research firm IDC. Cupertino,
California-based Apple is second with 24.2 percent, IDC said.  Apple has sought to bar as many as 25 Samsung smartphones
in addition to the Nexus model covered by yesterday’s ruling,
including the latest, the Galaxy S III. The Nexus phone was the
first smartphone to run Google’s Android version 4.0.  “Samsung is disappointed, as the court’s decision will
restrict U.S. consumer choice in the smartphone market,”  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We
will take all available measures, including legal action, to
ensure the Galaxy Nexus remains available to consumers.”  The South Korean electronics maker is working closely with
Google to resolve the sales ban as the disputed patent involves
the U.S. company’s search function, Samsung said in a separate
statement today.  Biggest Suppliers  Outside courtroom battles, Samsung and Apple also have a
close business relationship. Samsung is one of Apple’s biggest
suppliers, making parts including semiconductors and screens.
About 7.6 percent of Samsung’s revenue comes from Apple,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Earlier this week, Kim Young Chan, a Seoul-based analyst at
Shinhan Investment Corp., said Samsung’s “fundamentals will
stay intact” so long as smartphone sales aren’t blocked.
Samsung, which doesn’t disclose shipment figures for smartphones
and tablets, sold 44.5 million smartphones globally in the first
quarter, according to market researcher  Strategy Analytics .
Apple is the biggest buyer of Samsung chips and displays.  Delay Request  Kevin Johnson , a lawyer for Samsung, said the Suwon, South
Korea-based company will request by tomorrow afternoon to delay
the order from taking effect.  In her order, Koh said Apple had shown that four of its
patents are likely valid and infringed by the Samsung phone.
Earlier yesterday, Koh said in court that she would rule by
tomorrow on Samsung’s request to delay the ban on U.S. sales of
the Galaxy 10.1 tablet.  Samsung argued in a court filing that Koh’s order on the
tablet is “improper” and should be lifted while the company
appeals the ruling. The court relied on old evidence and has
refused to consider newer evidence demonstrating that a patent
at issue in the case is invalid, according to the filing.  Apple has previously said it isn’t a coincidence that
Samsung’s latest products look like the iPhone and iPad. It has
said the “blatant copying” is wrong and that it needs to
protect its intellectual property.  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to
comment yesterday beyond the company’s earlier statement.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The tablet case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics
Co. Ltd., 11-cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  