-- Apple’s Siri Gets Below-Average Grade From Piper Jaffray
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-06-29T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/apple-s-siri-gets-below-average-grade-from-piper-jaffray.html
A new report about  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
voice-recognition software Siri concludes what many users have
been saying for a while: It doesn’t work all that well.  Of 1,600 common searches, the speech technology accurately
resolved the request 62 percent of the time on a loud street and
68 percent in a quieter setting, according to a report released
today by Piper Jaffray Cos., the Minneapolis-based investment
bank. The report graded the technology “D” for accuracy, while
predicting it will improve as more features are added.  “You’re playing the lottery when you’re using Siri,” said
 Gene Munster , the Piper Jaffray  analyst  who conducted the study.
“They have a plan to be more competitive, but it’s going to
take a couple of years.”  Apple has made Siri the defining characteristic of its
iPhone 4S, spending heavily on advertisements featuring actors
such as Samuel L. Jackson and  Zooey Deschanel . The ads have
contrasted with the experience of many users, who have taken to
customer forums and websites to complain that Siri doesn’t work
as well as it’s being marketed. One group of customers even
filed a class-action suit against Apple for false advertising.
Apple has denied any wrongdoing.  Apple continues to build features for Siri. Earlier this
month, the company said its new iOS 6 mobile operating system
will support sports statistics and movie listings. As more
applications like that are added and the accuracy is improved,
the speech-recognition technology will displace searches that
many users now perform through  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s search engine.  Verbal Shopping  “Apple would love nothing more than to take that away from
Google,” Munster said. He expects commerce features to be added
eventually so people can shop by speaking out commands.  Munster said that while Siri is good at comprehending what
a user is saying and will accurately repeat the question, it
struggles turning those words into a correct answer. For
instance, Siri will repeat old answers when a user is trying to
ask a new question. The technology also struggles when trying to
use speech commands to find directions, Munster said.  In Piper Jaffray’s tests, Siri was able to accurately
decipher what a user was saying 83 percent of the time on the
street and 89 percent in an area with low noise.  “Apple right now gets a ‘B’ in comprehension and a ‘D’ in
accuracy,” Munster said. “There’s a big difference between
comprehension and her actually doing what you want her to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  