-- Argentina’s YPF to Make $125 Million Repsol Loan Payment
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z
-- 2012-06-29T20:51:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/argentina-s-ypf-to-make-125-million-repsol-loan-payment-2-.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina ’s largest energy
company, said it plans to pay off a $125 million loan to Repsol
SA after the Spanish company sought immediate reimbursement
following the nationalization of YPF.  YPF will also pay interest due Nov. 4, 2013, after Repsol
sent a letter seeking payment, Buenos Aires-based YPF said in a
 filing  with the U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission today. The
loan was issued Aug. 3, 2011, before the nationalization.  Argentina’s government seized a 51 percent stake in YPF
from  Spain ’s Repsol in April after saying the company wasn’t
investing enough in exploration and production. YPF’s rating was
lowered by Moody’s Investors Service on June 12 on the risk of
debt acceleration. Repsol’s debt payment request was the first
for Buenos Aires-based YPF since the seizure.  “I don’t think other investors will follow Repsol by
asking for YPF debt acceleration because of the change of
control clause,” Luz Padilla, head of investment activities at
Doubleline Capital LP, said in a telephone interview from  Los
Angeles . “Even if some do, we think the Argentine government
will cover the payments. They have already told investors they
will and it makes no sense for them not to do it.”  YPF  American depositary receipts  gained 5 percent to $12.35
in  New York . The ADRs have dropped 64 percent this year.  Changing Control  “Repsol’s decision is based on the change of control of
YPF,” Repsol spokesman Kristian Rix said by telephone today.
“The loan was made in the context of financial support provided
by the parent company to its affiliate and no longer has a
reason to exist.”  YPF will immediately pay back the loan, according to the
 SEC filing .  Moody’s on June 12 cut YPF’s rating to Caa1 from B3 because
of “YPF’s near-term liquidity risk of debt acceleration”
sparked by a change-of-control clause that could be deemed an
event of default under certain debt agreements.  About $1.6 billion of YPF debt was subject to change-of-
control clauses, Moody’s said then. Moody’s today also cut
Madrid-based Repsol’s outlook to negative from stable. Repsol’s
shares have lost almost half their market value this year after
the YPF nationalization.  Repsol, which has also been affected by the Spain’s
sovereign debt crisis and a decline in Brent oil prices, last
month lowered its dividend payout ratio to protect its ratings.  “The further downgrade of Spain’s sovereign rating may
heighten the risks associated with the execution of the
corrective actions initiated by Repsol in response to the YPF
expropriation, as it seeks to cut debt and conserve cash,”
Moody’s said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Pablo Gonzalez in  Buenos Aires  at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  