-- Argentina Denies Inflation, Subsidizes Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/argentina-denies-inflation-subsidizes-loans-mortgages.html
Argentines are lining up at banks
again. This time, they’re leaving with loans.  Veronica Cajal, who wants to move out of her mother’s
house, is among 1.4 million Argentines who applied for
subsidized  home-construction  loans in the first week they were
offered as part of a program designed to ease a chronic housing
shortage and help revive growth in  South America ’s second-
biggest economy.  The plan calls for the national pension agency to lend
about 20 billion pesos ($4.4 billion) for new homes at rates as
low as one-tenth the pace of consumer-price increases. The
government is trying to foster home building as private banks
balk at issuing long-term loans amid inflation that economists
estimate at 24 percent a year, a legacy of government policies
that followed a $95 billion default in 2001, when Argentines
queued at banks to buy dollars before a  currency devaluation .  “I’m hoping this will give us the chance to have something
for ourselves,” said Cajal, a 31-year-old secretary who lives
at her mother’s two-bedroom house in  Buenos Aires  with her
husband and their two boys. “We’ve tried to get loans at other
banks but were never approved.”  Cajal was among about 50 people who lined up outside a
branch of  Banco Hipotecario (BHIP)  SA, the lender administrating the
mortgage program, on a recent weekday morning. The pensions
agency, called Anses, will provide most of the financing,
President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said June 12 on
national television when she announced the program. For
borrowers who don’t already own building sites, the state will
sell lots from 1,700 hectares of land it has designated for home
construction.  100,000 Loans  Shares of Banco Hipotecario jumped 7.9 percent, the most in
five weeks, the day after Fernandez announced the program.
 Holcim Argentina SA (JMIN) , a cement producer, also advanced 7.9
percent in Buenos Aires trading that day, the biggest increase
in almost five months.  The program  calls for making 100,000 loans by the end of
2013. Recipients will be chosen randomly from all eligible
applications.  Interest rates  on the 20- to 30-year loans will be fixed at
2 percent to 14 percent for the first five years. The credit of
as much as 350,000 pesos is available to Argentines who  earn  as
much as 30,000 pesos a month. Private banks charged average
interest of 14.6 percent for mortgage loans of more than 10
years in May, according to the latest central bank data.  Conflicting Data  Those rates compare with annual inflation of 24 percent in
May, according to an average of economists’ estimates released
by opposition lawmakers.  Argentina ’s national statistics agency,
whose data has been questioned by the  International Monetary
Fund , said  consumer prices  rose 9.9 percent in the same period.  “Inflation has made financing for homes extremely
expensive in the last few years,” said  Fausto Spotorno , an
economist at Buenos Aires-based Orlando Ferreres & Asociados, a
business and finance advisory firm. “Most purchases are made
using cash, which cuts out a large part of the population from
the dream of owning their own home.”  Home Loans  Mortgage lending shrunk after Argentina’s default in 2001
as the government’s freezing of bank accounts that year made
individuals distrust the banking system, said German Gomez
Picasso, a director at  Reporte Inmobiliario .  In the financial crisis that followed, Argentines lined up
outside banks, and the same happened last year after Fernandez
tightened currency controls, raising concerns that the
government would turn their foreign currency savings into pesos
or limit how much they could take out.  Only 6.6 percent of all home purchases used  mortgage loans 
last year, according to Buenos Aires real estate research
company Reporte Inmobiliario. The share hasn’t surpassed 9
percent in the past 10 years, compared with at least 25 percent
in the four years before the default, the data show.  “There’s been a big real estate boom in Argentina because
people see bricks and mortar as the best way to protect their
savings,” Gomez Picasso said. “But this wasn’t fueled by home
loans. The participation of mortgages in home buying has been
negligible.”  Housing Shortage  Mortgages represented 11 percent of Argentine banks’ total
lending in May, according to the country’s central bank, while
in neighboring  Chile  it represented 67 percent of banks’ loan
portfolio in April, according to the Chilean banks regulator.  If all 100,000 people who are awarded loans for the average
amount of 200,000 pesos estimated by the pensions fund, lending
will total 20 billion pesos by the end of 2013, almost equal to
the total amount of mortgages outstanding as of last month,
according to the country’s central bank.  About 32 percent of Argentine families have some sort of
housing deficit, according to a May 14 report by the Inter-
American Development Bank. The rate hasn’t dropped below 29
percent in 20 years, according to the institution.  The country’s economic growth will slow to 2.75 percent
this year, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg, down from 8.9 percent last year and 9.1
percent in 2010.  Financing Spending  Argentina uses government agencies such as the pension fund
and the central bank to finance spending because it has been
locked out of international credit markets since the 2001
default. Anses will probably withdraw some of the 23.4 billion
pesos it has in  bank deposits  to finance the plan, driving up
bank rates, Miguel Kiguel, a former deputy economy minister who
now runs research company Econviews, said from Buenos Aires.  “Anses doesn’t have all that money available so it’ll have
to take some of the funds it has in the banking system in timed
deposits,” Kiguel said. “Any other country would go and sell
bonds abroad to finance these programs, but Argentina can’t so
it reverts to these alternative mechanisms.”  Argentina’s government took $7.5 billion of reserves and
borrowed a further $9.6 billion from the central bank last year.
It also sold 11.4 billion pesos of debt to state-owned lender
Banco de la Nacion Argentina as well as 5.3 billion pesos to
state entities other than the national pensions agency,
according to the  Economy Ministry .  Home Prices  The Argentine government’s plan won’t help the real estate
industry rebound from its worst year since 2009 as the loans
will be granted to build new houses, not buy existing
properties, Spotorno at Orlando Ferreres & Asociados said. Sales
have slumped since Fernandez limited access to dollars, the
currency that is most used in Argentine home sales. Fernandez on
Oct. 31 required authorization from the federal tax agency to
make any foreign exchange purchase. The agency approves or
rejects the requests based on undisclosed guidelines.  Declining property sales spurred a rout in bonds of
Argentine real estate developer  Irsa Inversiones y
Representaciones SA. (IRSA)  Yields on Irsa bonds due in 2020 surged 494
basis points, or 4.94 percentage points, this year to 16.25
percent.  Residential real-estate transactions in Argentina’s capital
fell 9 percent in the first four months of the year to 24,023,
the fewest in three years, according to Reporte Inmobiliario.
Sales fell 15 percent in May from a year ago to 6,706 the data
show.  Still, average prices per square meter rose 10 percent to
$807 in that period as Argentines bought property to shield
their savings from inflation. Property values have risen in nine
of the past 10 years, providing more stable returns than
Argentine dollar bonds that posted annual losses four times in
the past decade.  “Real estate has become too expensive for most,” Gomez
Picasso said. “It’s been 10 years of very difficult conditions
for homebuyers. The government’s program is very ambitious and
may help ease this problem, if they manage to pull it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  