-- Asian Currencies Rise This Week on Europe Summit, U.S. Data
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-06-30T01:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/asian-currencies-rise-this-week-on-europe-summit-u-s-data.html
Asian currencies strengthened this
week as European leaders agreed on measures to ease a regional
debt crisis and data suggested the U.S. housing market is
recovering from a slump.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index  rose yesterday by
the most since Oct. 27 after European Union President  Herman Van
Rompuy  said bailout conditions tied to emergency loans for
Spanish banks were relaxed and regional leaders are looking at
ways to bring down yields on bonds issued by Spain and Italy.
India’s rupee gained by the most in three years yesterday after
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said reviving investor confidence
is one of his top priorities. The currency tumbled 8.6 percent
against the dollar this quarter, leading declines in Asia.  “The spike in regional currencies is just a short-term
reaction,” said Amonthep Chawla, a Bangkok-based analyst at
 Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)  “It’s going to be a chronic debt crisis in
Europe and investors will fear again that the problems are still
there.”  The Asia Dollar Index climbed 0.8 percent this week to
115.22 in  Hong Kong , trimming this quarter’s loss to 1.4
percent. South Korea’s won advanced 1 percent this week to
1,145.40 per dollar, the Philippine peso rose 0.7 percent to
42.16 and the  Taiwan dollar  advanced 0.2 percent to NT$29.90,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rupee jumped 2.7
percent to 55.6375, touching a one-week high of 55.6375 earlier.  Europe, U.S.  Leaders of the 17 euro-area countries agreed banks can be
recapitalized directly by bailout funds, rather than having aid
channeled through governments, and dropped a requirement that
emergency loans to Spanish lenders get preferred credit status,
 Van Rompuy  said after 12 hours of talks ended at 4:30 a.m. in
Brussels. The two-day summit concluded yesterday and Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said “short-term measures”
are being considered to bring down borrowing costs for Spain and
Italy.  U.S. reports this week showed sales of new homes climbed to
a two-year high in May, while housing prices declined in April
at the slowest pace since November 2010. An improving real-
estate market may spur spending in the U.S., the biggest buyer
of Asian exports.  India’s rupee had its biggest weekly advance since October
2009, after touching an all-time low of 57.3275 per dollar on
June 22. The central bank said June 25 it will raise the ceiling
for foreign investment in  government bonds  by $5 billion and
allow certain companies that earn foreign exchange to borrow
abroad to repay rupee loans.  Philippine Inflows  The peso jumped 3.2 percent since May, its biggest monthly
gain since September 2010, as an improving economy attracted
funds to the nation’s assets. Overseas investors bought $873
million more Philippine shares than they sold this month through
June 29. The $200 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent last
quarter, the fastest pace since 2010, and Ruperto Majuca,
National Economic Development Authority assistant director
general, forecast this week that second-quarter growth will be
about the same.  “It’s mostly a reflection of the good economic data about
the  Philippines , which is tempering  risk aversion  caused by
worries in Europe,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice
president of financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in  Manila .
“Most of the data, from fiscal to growth to inflation, is
supportive.”  Europe Impact  China’s  yuan  rose this week, trimming its biggest quarterly
loss since a dollar peg ended in 2005. The currency traded at
6.3541 per dollar, 0.16 percent stronger than its June 21 close.
It has dropped 0.9 percent since the end of March.  Slowing trade to the U.S. and Europe has “impacted” the
yuan, Zhang Jianhua, director-general of the People’s Bank of
China’s research bureau, said at a forum in Shanghai June 28.  “China’s economic data is unlikely to be impressive with
lingering problems in Europe,” said Stella Lee, president of
Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The
government is trying to bolster domestic consumption but that
takes time. The yuan will only rebound in the fourth quarter if
the economy regains strong growth momentum.”  Elsewhere,  Malaysia ’s ringgit rose 0.8 percent this week to
3.1688 per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah gained 0.1 percent to
9,430. Thailand’s baht advanced 0.1 percent to 31.74.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 