-- Asian LNG Exports Drive Canadian Gas Industry Purchases
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-06-29T05:36:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/asian-lng-exports-drive-canadian-gas-industry-purchases.html
The prospect of shipping liquefied
natural gas to Asia helped convince Petroliam Nasional Bhd to
buy  Canada ’s  Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  The purchase may
trigger other partnerships for cash-strapped Canadian producers.  Malaysia ’s state-owned energy company, known as Petronas,
said it will push ahead with a 2011 agreement with Calgary-based
Progress to develop a LNG terminal on Canada’s Pacific coast as
part of its C$4.8 billion ($4.64 billion) acquisition announced
yesterday. The companies plan to start shipments by 2018,
Progress Chief Executive Officer Michael Culbert and Petronas
Executive Vice President Anuar Ahmad said in a joint interview.  “LNG is an important part of where our gas will go,”
Culbert said yesterday in the telephone interview. “From an
economic perspective, that gas should be directed to the LNG
projects.”  British Columbia’s Montney Basin, one of Canada’s largest
proven shale-gas reserves, is thousands of kilometers from  North
America ’s eastern markets and  gas prices  are languishing near a
10-year low. To get the gas flowing to Asia, there will need to
be more company takeovers and land acquisitions in Canada like
the Petronas-Progress deal, said Jennifer Stevenson, a Calgary-
based  fund manager  at Dynamic Funds.  Potential Canadian targets include  Painted Pony Petroleum
Ltd. (PPY)  and Bonavista Energy Corp., Stevenson, who helps oversee
about C$5 billion in assets, said by phone.  Canadian Plans  “Consolidation is inevitable,” Stevenson said. “For the
small guys, their balance sheets are weighing on them heavily
and they’re not  growth stocks  because they don’t have the
capital.”  Petronas is one of a handful of energy companies including
Royal Dutch Shell Plc, Apache Corp., and the U.K.’s BG Group Plc
that are exploring proposals to ship LNG from Canada’s Pacific
coast, developments that may turn Canada into one of the largest
exporters of the fuel. About 62 percent of Canadian gas was
exported to the U.S. in 2010, according to the Canadian
Association of Petroleum Producers, an industry group.  Petronas plans to spend a record 300 billion ringgit
($94 billion) over five years to help replenish Malaysia’s
diminishing reserves, Chief Executive Officer Shamsul Azhar
Abbas said last year. The company has embarked on a worldwide
review of its portfolio and it wants to add more energy assets
in developed markets such as Canada and  Australia , Shamsul
said March 30.  The sole manager of Malaysia’s energy reserves is seeking
to reverse a production slump after oil and gas output from the
country fell to 1.61 million barrels of oil equivalent a day in
the year ended March 31, 2011, from 1.63 million a day a year
earlier, according to the company’s annual report.  Low Prices  Gas prices dropped yesterday after a government report said
U.S. stockpiles increased more than forecast last week. Futures
for August delivery slid 1.9 percent to $2.722 per million
British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
price is down 8.9 percent this year and fell to a 10-year
intraday low of $1.902 per million Btu on April 19.  Larger producers such as  Encana Corp. (ECA)  and  Talisman Energy
Inc. (TLM)  are counting on a switch to gas liquids like butane to help
them survive the low prices.  Both Encana and Talisman have assets they may want to sell
to larger competitors, said Gordon Currie, an analyst at Salman
Partners in Calgary. Encana already has a joint venture with
Mitsubishi Corp. to develop its resources in the Montney Basin
and is working with Apache and EOG Resources Inc. on a plan to
export LNG from the coastal town of Kitimat, British Columbia.  Painted Pony,  Birchcliff Energy Ltd. (BIR)  and  ARC Resources
Ltd. (ARX) , all based in Calgary, are also among companies that would
be attractive to larger buyers, he said.  ‘Large Resource’  Painted Pony rose 1.7 percent to C$7.23 yesterday in
Toronto.  Bonavista (BNP)  climbed 5.2 percent to C$15.50, while
Birchcliff closed 2.1 percent lower at C$5.19. ARC rose 8.7
percent to C$22.19 a day after its rating was raised to buy from
hold by Roger Serin, an analyst at TD Newcrest Inc.  Potential LNG shippers from Canada will need a 20-year
supply of the fuel in order to be successful, said Ari Levy, a
fund manager at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto.  “You need a large resource to back an LNG project,” Levy,
who manages the TD Energy Fund, said in an interview yesterday
on Canadian news channel BNN. Canadian companies have been held
back by their reliance on the U.S. market, he said.  “It’s in the interests of producers to be exposed to more
markets and expand the number of buyers,” he said.  Gas Differential  Driving global interest in Canada’s gas reserves is the
difference in North American prices  compared with  those paid in
Asia for the fuel, which is linked to the price of oil. Oil-
linked prices averaged $16.66 per million British thermal units
of gas in the first quarter while in  New York  gas futures
averaged $2.50 per million Btu.  Petronas’s LNG project should be highly profitable and
benefit from oil-linked prices, Anuar said yesterday.  Chinese consumption of the fuel has increased an average of
about 16 percent annually from 2000 to 2010 and will continue
expanding as much as 12 percent a year through 2020, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates.  Japan , the world’s largest LNG importer, is looking to buy
more gas after idling its nuclear  power plants  following the
March 2011 earthquake and the subsequent meltdown at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant.  Asian buyers will probably continue looking to Canada as a
potential energy supplier, said Terry Marshall, a senior vice
president at Moody’s Investors Service.  “There’s tremendous interest in  Asia  for oil and gas
assets and Canada is open for business,” Marshall said.
“They’ll probably keep coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  