-- Asset Sale Delays Bolster Cheapest Valuations: Russia Overnight
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-06-29T07:26:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/asset-sale-delays-bolster-cheapest-valuations-russia-overnight.html
Russian equities will maintain the
 lowest valuations  among emerging-market stocks next quarter as
the nation delays state asset sales, according to Alfa Capital
Partners Ltd., JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Libra Capital.  Moscow’s Micex Index has slumped 9.6 percent this quarter,
while the  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies in the U.S. tumbled 20 percent. The decline
sent Micex member valuations to five times estimated earnings,
about half the average multiple for companies trading on the
 MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (INDEXCF)  Russia-dedicated equity funds
posted outflows for nine consecutive weeks through June 20,
pulling out $535 million for the period, according to EPFR
Global.  Russia, which received 50 percent of its budget revenue
from oil and gas last year, plans to reduce its reliance on
energy sales with President  Vladimir Putin  pledging last week to
fulfill the government’s state assets sale plans starting this
year. Prospects for the government sale of a stake in power
distributor  OAO MRSK Holding (MRSK)  faded after the company said on May
11 that it would merge with Federal Grid Co., the high-voltage
transmission monopoly.  “The officials’ comments on privatization remain
ambiguous, ” Igor Lavrentiev, who oversees over $1 billion in
Russian assets at Libra Capital in Moscow, said by e-mail on
June 26. “Everyone feels that there is a sort of ‘competition’
between the state-owned companies to delay the placements as the
market conditions are unfavorable. It is a vicious circle as the
budget needs the proceeds the most when the market conditions
are the worst.”  Sale Postponement  The Bloomberg Russia-U.S. Equity Index fell for the first
time in three days, declining 1.6 percent to 85.34.  RTS stock-
index futures  climbed 0.9 percent to 128,260.  Russia approved a plan on June 7 to loosen its grip on the
economy this year by reducing state shares in  OAO Sberbank (SBRCY) , the
country’s largest lender, tanker operator OAO Sovcomflot and
fertilizer maker OAO Apatit. The plan targets revenue of 300
billion rubles ($9.3 billion) this year, with about half of that
total coming from those three companies, Economy Minister Andrei Belousov said at the June 7 meeting.  In April the government postponed a roadshow of the
Sberbank stock offering as the bank’s shares dropped below a
level at which officials were willing to sell.  Igor Shuvalov ,
Putin’s first deputy, said on April 16 that the Sberbank sale
may be delayed until 2013 or 2014.  “The government sends ambiguous signals on privatization,
showing commitment in principle on the one hand but reluctance
to cede control of the most valuable assets on the other,” Alex Kantarovich, head of research at JPMorgan in Moscow, said by e-
mail on June 25. “The external conditions are unsupportive as
valuations remain depressed.”  Maintain Control  Russian equities trade at the  cheapest valuations  among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg, reflecting concern that
the country, which relies on energy sales for half of government
revenue, is too reliant on oil.  “The ideas of reforms and state asset privatization are
very good but investors have heard many such promises and feel
disappointed by the past efforts,” Victor Bark, head of asset
management at Alfa Capital, said by e-mail on June 25. “In
order for these government decisions to support the market, we
need to see transparent implementation mechanisms and to know
who will get which stakes in state-owned companies.”  Russia plans to maintain its controlling stakes  in OAO
Transneft , Russia’s oil-pipeline operator, and in Federal Grid
Co., the high-voltage transmission monopoly, by reducing its
ownership to 75 percent plus one share by 2016, Belousov said on
June 7.  The  RTS Index (RTSI$)  in Moscow gained 2.8 percent to 1,316.46,
while the 30-stock Micex climbed 2.1 percent to 1,371.00 by
10:31 a.m. in Moscow.  RusHydro, Mechel  OAO RusHydro (RSHYY) , Russia’s largest renewable energy producer,
dropped 5.1 percent to $2.23. Shares traded in Moscow gained 2.3
percent to 77.85 kopeks, the equivalent of 2.4 cents. One ADR is
equal to 100 ordinary shares.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR) , Russia’s largest coal producer for steelmakers,
pared losses of as much as 5.2 percent to close unchanged at
$5.93 in  New York , as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  cut its rating on
June 27 to neutral from buy. Mechel  shares  in Moscow added 3
percent to 194.30 rubles, or the equivalent of $5.92. One ADR
represents one ordinary share.  “Overall the privatization plan is less important for the
market than the efforts to improve the investment climate, which
so far have been negligible,” Libra’s Lavrentiev said. “I do
not expect any progress on that in the next quarter.”  Brent oil, which underpins  Russia ’s Urals crude blend,
climbed 1.9 percent to $93.05 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. Oil traded in New York added 2.6
percent to $79.70.  Gazprom Declines  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) , the world’s biggest natural gas exporter, fell
3.1 percent to $9.01 as Russia’s  Finance Ministry  said yesterday
it will revisit its natural-gas extraction tax proposals in
August. The proposal to quadruple the extraction tax, announced
in May, prompted the head of OAO Novatek, the largest non-state
producer, to demand a revision of the “shocking” plans, saying
the change would curtail investment.  Gazprom  shares  in Moscow gained 1.8 percent to 153.39
rubles, or the equivalent of $4.67. One ADR represents two
ordinary  shares. (HYDR)   The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, lost 1.4 percent to $24.80. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, fell 2.9 percent to 36.86 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  