-- Lauryn Hill Admits to Failing to File Tax Returns, U.S. Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-29T19:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/lauryn-hill-admits-to-failing-to-file-tax-returns-u-s-says-1-.html
Lauryn N. Hill, the Grammy-winning
singer, pleaded guilty to failing to file three years of income
tax returns with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  Hill, 37, waived her right to trial and entered her plea
today before U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Shipp in  Newark , New
Jersey, according to her lawyer and to New Jersey U.S. Attorney
Paul Fishman.  “Miss Hill accepted full responsibility for her actions,”
attorney  Nathan Hochman  said in a telephone interview, adding
that his client “intends to fully pay back the IRS for all back
taxes owed.”  Hill won two Grammy awards in 1996 as a member of the
Fugees. Her album “The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill” was named
album of the year at the 1999 Grammy Awards. She also won awards
then for best new artist, best rhythm and blues album, best R&B
song and best female R&B vocal performance.  “During calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, Hill received
more than $1.8 million in income, and failed to file tax returns
with the IRS for those years,” the prosecutor said.  The singer’s primary source of income was royalties from
the recording and film industries and she owned four closely
held corporations, Fishman said.  A final determination as to her tax liability hasn’t yet
been made, said Hochman.  The prosecutor announced the misdemeanor charges on June 7.
Her lawyer said then that his client was cooperating with the
investigation.  Hill faces as long as one year in prison and a $100,000
fine for each count and will be sentenced on Nov. 27. She has no
agreement with prosecutors as to a maximum punishment, Hochman
said.  The case is U.S. v. Hill, 12-mj-6081, U.S. District Court,
District of  New Jersey  (Newark).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  