-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Climb on Demand for Higher-Yield Assets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-06-29T21:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/aussie-n-z-dollars-climb-on-demand-for-higher-yield-assets.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars climbed, reversing earlier declines, after European
leaders announced plans to support funding for Spain, reducing
demand for the safest assets.  The Aussie rose versus most of its 16 major counterparts
after European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said euro-area
leaders agreed to drop the condition that emergency loans to
Spanish banks give their governments preferred creditor status.
Officials also decided to relax conditions on potential aid for
Italy. New Zealand’s currency rallied as Asian stocks gained the
most in six months.  “Anything that looks to be supportive of Spain and Italy
in raising funds is going to be positive,” said  Sacha Tihanyi ,
a strategist in  Hong Kong  at Scotiabank, a unit of  Bank of Nova
Scotia. (BNS)  “As long as these headlines continue to come out with
this sort of flavor, we can see the Aussie and kiwi get squeezed
a bit higher.”  The Australian dollar gained 1.9 percent to $1.0238 as of 5
p.m. in New York. It climbed 2.4 percent to 81.698 yen. New
Zealand’s currency, known as the kiwi, rose 1.7 percent to 80.13
U.S. cents and gained 2.1 percent to 63.95 yen.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares added 2 percent, the
biggest gain since Dec. 21.  Dollar Slides  The  Dollar Index  fell as much as 1.5 percent, ending a two-
day rally as the EU’s Spanish bond decision decreased investor
appetite for risk-averse assets. The index is used by
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. to track the greenback against the
currencies of six U.S. trading partners.  The Australian dollar advance 5.2 percent against the
greenback this month, reversing its previous decline this year
to a gain of 0.3 percent. New Zealand’s currency has
strengthened 6.3 percent since May 31, the biggest gainer after
the Mexican peso among the greenback’s 16 major counterparts. It
has gained 3.1 percent this year.  The kiwi weakened earlier versus the dollar and yen after
government data showed New Zealand home-building permits fell
7.1 percent last month following a revised 7.6 percent decline
in April, completing the first  consecutive  slide since March
2011.  The Aussie advanced the most since October against its U.S.
counterpart amid speculation the  Reserve Bank  of Australia will
keep borrowing costs steady at a meeting July 3.  Rates Unchanged  Officials will probably  keep  the overnight cash rate target
at 3.5 percent, according to all economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see about a 68 percent chance for no change to the central
bank’s key rate. That’s up from a 33 percent probability seen
June 22. They expect the RBA to cut the rate to a record 2.75
percent or lower by December, the data show.  “The market has taken a view that a move from the RBA in
July seems a lot less likely now,” said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a
currency strategist in Singapore at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) 
“Expectations for a rate cut have been pared back, and that
certainly helps the currency trade more resiliently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  