-- Bain Capital Said to Raise $2.3 Billion for Second Asia Fund
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-06-29T02:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/bain-capital-said-to-raise-2-3-billion-for-second-asia-fund.html
Bain Capital  LLC, the Boston-based
private-equity firm co-founded by U.S. presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney , is close to raising $2.3 billion for its second
Asia fund, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The company plans to complete the fundraising next month,
the person said, asking not to be identified because the
information is private. The second fund made its first
investment in Japan’s Jupiter Shop Channel Co. this month, the
person said.  Bain and  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  are among global firms raising
new funds in Asia, where private-equity investments jumped 38
percent from 2009 to 2011, according to the Asian Venture
Capital Journal. Bain has already fully invested its previous $1
billion fund, the person said.  KKR & Co., the buyout firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , has gathered more than $3 billion for its second Asia
fund, according to a filing last week. The firm is targeting $6
billion for that fund.  Charlyn Lusk, a spokeswoman for Bain at Stanton Public
Relations & Marketing, could not be reached for comment outside
of normal business hours. Earlier this week, the South China
Morning Post reported that Bain is close to raising about $2.5
billion for the new fund.  Bain had its busiest year in Asia in 2011, when it acquired
Japanese restaurant operator Skylark Co. for $3.4 billion
including debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also struck
a $1.3 billion deal to purchase MYOB Pty Ltd., an Australian
maker of business-management software, and acquired Beijing-
based China Fire & Security Group Inc. for $234 million, the
data show.  Bain, started in 1984 by Romney and partners from the
consulting firm Bain & Co., oversees about $60 billion in
assets. The firm deployed $15.3 billion across 33 transactions
last year according to London-based researcher  Preqin Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  