-- Balotelli Wants More at Euro 2012 After Striker’s Greatest Night
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-29T03:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/balotelli-wants-more-at-euro-2012-after-striker-s-greatest-night.html
Mario Balotelli  hit a career zenith
by firing  Italy  into the European Championship soccer final with
two goals against  Germany . He already wants more.  “This is the greatest night of my life, but I hope Sunday
is going to be even better,” Balotelli told reporters after
Italy beat the tournament favorite 2-1 in Warsaw last night to
set up a meeting with defending champion Spain in two days.  The first-half double made Balotelli, 21, the first Italian
to score three goals at a European Championship, according to
Infostrada Sports, putting him in a five-way tie atop the Euro
2012 goal-scoring list. It also gave Italy the chance to end its
44-year wait for a second continental title.  The Manchester City striker gave his team the lead in the
20th minute, heading the ball past Germany goalkeeper  Manuel Neuer  after getting on the end of  Antonio Cassano ’s cross.  Balotelli made it 2-0 nine minutes before halftime when he
finished off a counterattack by drilling a shot past Neuer into
the top corner. After ripping off his shirt and flexing his
torso in celebration, he was yellow-carded by the referee.  Claudio Marchisio and Antonio Di Natale, who replaced
Balotelli in the 70th minute, had chances to extend Italy’s lead
before Mesut Ozil’s stoppage-time penalty kick reduced the
deficit. The breakthrough came too late as Italy extended its
unbeaten run in competitive matches against Germany to eight.  ‘Decisive Moments’  “We should have made it 2-1 earlier,” Germany coach
Joachim Loew said in his post-match news conference. “In those
decisive moments when it came to scoring goals, they were
cleverer than us.”  Balotelli said Italy “suffered a little bit in the end,”
having not put itself out of reach of a Germany team that had
entered last night’s semifinal on a 15-match winning streak in
competitive games.  “It could have been prevented,” said Balotelli, who
embraced his adopted mother, Silvia, in the stands after the
final whistle. “The most important thing is the result and that
we won.”  Italy, which secured its only European Championship title
in 1968, has already played defending champion  Spain  at this
year’s edition. The teams drew 1-1 on June 10 in the opening
Group C match.  Both teams needed penalty shootouts to get past opponents
on their way to the final. Italy overcame England 4-2 on
penalties in the quarterfinals, while defending champion Spain
beat Portugal 4-2 in a shootout two nights ago. Both matches
finished 0-0 after regulation play and 30 minutes of extra time.  ‘Always Available’  Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said his players had executed
his plan to keep the ball away from the flanks against Germany
and try to get Balotelli into space high up the pitch.  “I really need a team to have an idea, and Balotelli
subscribed to this,” Prandelli told reporters. “He was always
available, ran high up the pitch and did very well. He was in
the game, he was very focused, concentrated and did exactly what
I asked of him.”  Balotelli’s contribution wasn’t enough to earn the man of
the match award, which went to midfielder  Andrea Pirlo  for the
second straight game.  Still, Balotelli is now the bookmakers’ favorite to finish
as the leading scorer at Euro 2012, having entered the 16-team
tournament with one goal in eight previous games for Italy.  “Balotelli’s career has just started,” Prandelli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  