-- Barclays Big-Boy Breaches Mean Libor Fixes Not Enough
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-06-29T15:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/barclays-big-boy-breaches-mean-libor-fixes-not-enough.html
The blueprint regulators gave
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and other banks for correcting Libor-rate abuses
may not be enough to salvage a benchmark so discredited it needs
to be overhauled.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission ordered
Barclays on June 27 to keep thorough records on how it
determines its London interbank offered rate submissions and to
erect so-called Chinese walls between traders and rate-setters.
It also said lenders should expect random checks from regulators
on whether their submissions reflect actual borrowing costs.
Investors say the plans are little more than window-dressing.  “As long as banks are allowed in the henhouse, then the
system is ripe for abuse,” said  Tim Price , who helps oversee
more than $1.5 billion at PFP Group LLP, an asset-management
firm based in London. A better system would be to take random
samplings from all the transactions, he said. “If there is any
message of the last few years, it’s that banks and bankers
simply cannot be trusted.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest lender, was fined a
record $451 million and its top executives agreed to forgo
bonuses after investigators found traders and senior managers
“systematically” tried to rig the Libor and Euribor, its
equivalent in euros. With other lenders facing similar
sanctions, the  British Bankers Association , which oversees
Libor, is under pressure to prove the rate is fit for purpose.  ‘Actual Transactions’  “The idea that one can base the future calculation of
Libor on the idea that ‘my word is my Libor’ is now dead,”  Bank
of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said at a press conference to
present the central bank’s Financial Stability Report in London
today. “It will have to be based in the future, in my judgment,
on actual transactions in order to bring back credibility to the
system.”  Libor is determined by banks’ daily estimates of how much
it would cost them to borrow from one another for different time
frames and in different currencies. Because banks’ submissions
aren’t based on real trades, the potential exists for
manipulation by traders. At least a dozen firms are being probed
by regulators worldwide for colluding to rig the rate, the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages, student loans and swaps.  Barclays employees overseeing Libor and Euribor submissions
routinely accommodated requests that benefited traders at their
own and other banks, the CFTC said.  ‘Big Boy’  On Sept 13, 2006, a senior Barclays trader in  New York  e-
mailed the person who submitted the rate, “Hi Guys, We got a
big position in 3m libor for the next 3 days. Can we please keep
the lib or fixing at 5.39 for the next few days. It would really
help,” according to a CFTC document.  In another exchange, from April 7, 2006, a submitter
responded to a request for low U.S. dollar Libor submissions
from a swaps trader with “Done ... for you big boy,” the
commission said.  Barclays fell 1.7 percent in London trading today after
tumbling 16 percent yesterday as U.K. lawmakers put pressure on
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond . Prime Minister  David Cameron  said that the bank has questions to answer, while  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition  Labour Party , has demanded a
criminal investigation. Shares in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS) , which is also being investigated for suspected Libor
manipulation,  dropped  11 percent.  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne gave the first
indication that there could be a criminal investigation in the
U.K. when he addressed lawmakers yesterday and said British
fraud prosecutors are now involved in the probe. The  Serious
Fraud Office  is in contact with the Financial Services Authority
and is considering whether to open a formal investigation, SFO
spokesman  David Jones  said in an interview.  ‘Improper Communications’  As part of its settlement, the CFTC ordered Barclays to
amend how it sets Libor. Submissions should be based on actual
trades if possible. Where no trades have taken place, the rate-
setter can consider factors including how much competitors paid
to borrow and market conditions, the CFTC said.  Rate-setters should be prohibited from “improper
communications” and not work within earshot of derivatives
traders, according to the commission. Barclays must keep
extensive records on all its Libor submissions, including
details on who the rate-setter was and how the figure was
derived. The bank must also undergo annual audits and be willing
to provide data to regulators on demand.  ‘Serious Implications’  The CFTC requirements will provide a blueprint for what
might be required of other banks once the BBA completes its
review, said Owen Watkins, a former regulator at the FSA.  “You’ve got to have everybody playing the game by the same
rules,” said Watkins, now a lawyer at Lewis Silkin LLP in
London. “It’s like playing baseball with some guys throwing
proper baseballs, while some guys throw golf balls.”  The Barclays settlement has “extremely serious
implications, which need to be carefully considered,” the BBA
said June 27 in an e-mailed statement. “The investigation
findings will be fully included in the current review of
Libor.”  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman for the U.K.’s Financial Services
Authority, which levied the fine against Barclays along with the
CFTC and the U.S. Justice Department, said “the BBA’s review is
continuing and we will consider any recommendations arising from
that exercise.”  The proposals may not go far enough, said Rosa Abrantes-
Metz, an economist with Global Economics Group, a New York-based
consulting firm, and an associate professor at New York
University’s  Stern School of Business .  ‘Trust Me’  “You will have some unease going forward if they do not
impose some drastic changes,” said Abrantes-Metz, the co-author
of a 2008 paper on Libor manipulation. “We need to have Libor
reflect true borrowing costs and I just don’t see any more
efficient way to do so but to base it on actual borrowing
costs.”  The market isn’t going to settle for “the trust-me
approach,” said Ron D’Vari, CEO of New York-based advisory firm
NewOak Capital LLC and a former  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  managing
director. “Changing wheels while driving is tough, but it has
to be done.”  Diamond has agreed to appear at a meeting of U.K. lawmakers
to highlight “what we have done and are doing to put things
right,” he said in a letter yesterday to  Andrew Tyrie , chairman
of Parliament’s cross-party Treasury Committee.  ‘Many Questions’  “I appreciate that the nature of the settlements disclosed
yesterday raises many questions, and I welcome the opportunity
to provide answers,” Diamond wrote.  The BBA, which has overseen Libor for 26 years, created a
steering group of bankers and regulators in March to consider
reforms in light of the probes. The BBA was aware that banks
including Barclays were low-balling their Libor submissions
during the financial crisis to avoid the perception they were
struggling to borrow cash, according to CFTC documents.  In an April 2008 phone call, a senior Barclays manager told
a BBA representative, “We’re clean, but we’re dirty-clean,
rather than clean-clean,” according to the CFTC report. The BBA
employee responded, “No one’s clean-clean.”  Incremental Changes  Barclays is on the BBA steering committee reviewing Libor.
The bank’s chairman, Marcus Agius, is also chairman of the BBA.
Other lenders on the steering committee include  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Royal
Bank of Scotland, all of which are being investigated as part of
Libor probes. Spokesmen for the banks declined to comment.  Three members of the steering committee interviewed by
Bloomberg News this month said changes to Libor would be
incremental because structural modifications in how the rate is
calculated could invalidate trillions of dollars of contracts
and result in litigation. They ruled out stripping the BBA’s
oversight and scrapping the survey system in favor of a rate
based entirely on actual trades.  “You wouldn’t ask for someone’s opinion on the closing
price of a share when there is an actual price available,” said
Daniel Sheard, chief investment officer of GAM U.K. Ltd., which
manages about $60 billion in assets. “What better way to
restore credibility than having a transaction-based index?”  ‘Significant Resources’  The British government will emphasize to the BBA at the
steering group’s next meeting that only drastic changes will
suffice, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , speaking to
lawmakers in London yesterday, said the FSA is “committing
significant resources” to investigate “systemic failures”
over the manipulation of Libor.  PFP Group’s Price said he’s skeptical that the BBA review
or increased oversight by regulators will improve Libor.  “Whenever you’ve got a regulator battling against well-
paid bankers, we know who’s likely to win,” Price said. “I
would feel better if some completely independent body was just
compiling data from the banks and just spitting out a number.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  