-- Base Resources Considers Mining Expansion in East Africa
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-06-29T10:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/base-resources-considers-mining-expansion-in-east-africa.html
Base Resources Ltd. (BSE) , the Australian
mineral sands mining company, is considering more opportunities
around Kenya as it looks to expand in  East Africa  over the next
18 months, Managing Director Tim Carstens said.  The company, based in West Perth,  Australia , has made
exploratory visits to several areas around the east African
nation and in neighboring  Tanzania , Carstens said in an
interview on June 27 in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital. Base
Titanium Ltd., its Kenyan unit, plans to start production at
Kwale, 50 kilometers (30 miles) south of the Kenyan port city of
Mombasa, in the second half of 2013.  “Hopefully the Kwale project is the first of many mining
operations because there is no question, there is a lot of
potential here,” he said. “There are some opportunities right
up to the north, on the border with Somalia, but it’s a little
dangerous right now.”  Kenya ’s army began an incursion into southern Somalia in
October to secure its borders after blaming al-Shabaab, an al-
Qaeda-linked militia, of murdering a British tourist and
abducting at least four foreign holidaymakers and aid workers.
The troops, assisting African Union and Somali government
forces, have captured key towns in the south and are now
targeting the port city of Kismayo, used by al-Shabaab as a
source of funding.  Kenya is  Africa ’s biggest producer of soda ash, which is
used to make glass, and has deposits of metals including gold,
copper and zinc, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey ’s
website. Mining makes up about 0.8 percent of the country’s $32
billion economy, according to the  African Development Bank .  Exploration  Base Titanium has an option to buy three mineral-sands
exploration projects in Mambrui, Kilifi and Vipingo on Kenya’s
coast and has done some test drilling already, Carstens said.  “We should have the results in the next month or so which
will determine whether they are worth pursuing or not because
the issue is what quality of product will they produce,”
Carstens said.  Mineral sands mining and processing produces ilmenite and
rutile, which are predominantly used in paints, plastics and
papers, as well as zircon, which is utilized in the manufacture
of ceramics.  The three projects may have a combined resource of
approximately 1.5 billion metric tons over the life of the
project, while the project in Kwale is expected to produce about
146 million tons of mineral sand, he said.  Base Resources estimates average annual sales over the 13
years of the Kwale project will be $200 million, with the East
African nation’s government receiving a royalty of 2.5 percent
in the first five years with the royalty rate thereafter being
determined by the prevailing rate in the Mining Act.  Production Estimates  In the first seven years, Base Resources expects annual
output of rutile, its main revenue earner, to be as much as
80,000 tons, ilmenite 330,000 tons and zircon 30,000 tons, he
said.  Base Resources’ biggest customer is  DuPont (DD)  Titanium
Technologies, the world’s largest pigment producer by market
value, which signed a six-year agreement to buy 75 percent of
Base Titanium’s rutile output. Other clients include Saudi
Arabian, Japanese and Chinese companies, Carstens said.  Global prices of ilmenite, rutile and zircon are currently
about $350, $2,400 and $2,300 per ton respectively, with an
average supply deficit of 14 percent for rutile. Kwale will
account for approximately 14 percent of world supply once in
production, he said.  Base Titanium is currently constructing two processing
plants, a jetty and wharf in Mombasa, an 8-kilometer (5-mile)
access road, a 16 kilometer power line that will be connected
onto the Kenyan  power grid  and a dam with a capacity of eight
million cubic meters, he said.  “We are on target to have all that construction completed
by late August next year then our first shipment of products
will start somewhere around November of next year,” Carstens
said. Production will begin in the second quarter of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  