-- Basel Said to Agree on Draft Changes to Bank Liquidity Rule
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-29T14:27:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/basel-said-to-agree-on-draft-changes-to-bank-liquidity-rule.html
Global banking regulators have
tentatively agreed to change the way they calculate whether
banks are holding enough liquid assets following concerns the
planned rules were too severe, according to two people with
knowledge of the matter.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  discussed the
standard, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, at a
meeting last week in  Stockholm , according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Regulators changed assumptions about what may happen to banks in
another credit crisis, the people said. A U.K. regulator
separately today said its banks may have more room to dip into
liquidity buffers because of  Bank of England  funding.  The Basel group hasn’t managed to reach a deal on the more
contentious issue of what assets banks’ should be allowed to
count toward meeting the LCR, the people said. The group is
split over how tough the standard should be, one of the people
said, while declining to provide details.  Central banks have sought to bolster banks’ funding since
the 2008 financial crisis on concern that a loss of confidence
in lenders could lead to a liquidity crunch and imperil the
global economy. The  European Central Bank  has injected more than
1 trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) of three-year loans into the
banking system since December.  Liquid Assets  Global regulators have drafted rules to force banks to
hoard liquid assets and ensure access to stable funding. A first
draft of the rules was published by the Basel committee in
December 2010.  The LCR rule, scheduled to take effect in 2015, would force
lenders to hold enough easy-to-sell assets to survive a 30-day
credit squeeze.  Banks have argued that the measure may curtail  loans  by
forcing them to keep too much cash and buy  government bonds .
Global regulators said  last year  that they would amend the rule
to address any unintended consequences.  The press office for the Basel Committee in Basel,
 Switzerland , declined to immediately comment. The group brings
together banking supervisors from 27 nations, including the
U.S., U.K. and  China .  The U.K. Financial Services Authority said today that it
will include Bank of England liquidity measures in calculations
of banks’ liquid asset buffers, giving banks room to dip to into
reserves.  The FSA said lowering the requirement for liquid assets
means banks should have more funds to lend to businesses and
consumers.  Emergency Funds  U.K. lenders have built up liquidity buffers worth around
500 billion pounds ($784 billion) since the 2008 financial
crisis, Andy Haldane, the U.K. central bank’s director for
financial stability, said. They’ve also lodged enough collateral
with the Bank of England to generate an extra 150 billion pounds
in emergency funds.  “Banks are holding buffers on top of buffers,” FSA
Chairman  Adair Turner  told journalists in  London . “They’re
holding more than we require from them.”  The Basel committee said earlier this year that banks
should draw on their pools of LCR assets during stressed times.
The group is working on criteria to define when the liquidity
buffers can be tapped, the people said.  Separately, the Basel group today issued draft plans for
tougher capital requirements and supervision of large national
banks, in an attempt to slash the risk that such lenders could
collapse and roil financial markets. Many large national lenders
escaped  Domestically Systemic  “The failure of such a bank could have an important impact
on its domestic financial system and economy,” the group said
in a statement. These so called domestically systemic, or D-SIB,
lenders should face additional  capital requirements 
“commensurate” with their systemic importance, it said.  The paper leaves it to national regulators to decide what
the maximum level of capital surcharges should be. The group
will seek views on the measures until Aug. 1, with the plans set
to enter into force in 2016.  On the liquidity coverage ratio, regulators at last week’s
Basel meeting agreed on provisional changes to the model used in
the measure to simulate a credit squeeze. The changes involve a
reduction in the rate that companies would be expected to
withdraw some kinds of deposits, and the extent to which a
lender’s clients would draw down liquidity lines. The draft
changes will be reviewed by the committee and its board of
supervisors, the people said.  The committee plans to develop a final LCR standard by the
end of 2012, and discussions will continue at the group’s next
meeting in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  