-- Batista’s Companies Rebound on Europe, OGX CEO: Rio Mover
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-06-29T21:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/batista-s-companies-rebound-on-europe-ogx-ceo-rio-mover.html
Eike Batista , the Brazilian
billionaire who took six companies public since 2006, is
recovering part of his wealth after easing concerns about
European banks helped stocks to rebound.  Batista lost $3.8 billion of his net worth over two days as
the value of his six companies plunged after his oil producer
 OGX Petroleo e Participacoes SA  slashed output targets by as
much as 75 percent at its first two wells, the company said June
26. OGX dropped 40 percent over the two-day period before
rebounding today. The stock rose 8.9 percent to 5.50 reais in
Sao Paulo.  “Investors sold Eike amid concerns all his companies may
cut production targets or projects,” Nataniel Cezimbra, an
equity analyst with  Banco do Brasil SA , said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo . “The main driver for the gains today
is the relief that came from Europe, combined with the
management changes at OGX.”  OGX said yesterday that Luiz Carneiro would replace Paulo Mendonca as chief executive officer. European leaders dropped
requirements that taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid
to Spain’s banks and opened the way to recapitalize lenders
directly, alleviating concerns banks will fail.  The OGX management change tells investors that
communication with investors should improve, Cezimbra said.  Carlos Slim  Batista’s other companies also rebounded. Mining company
 MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA  soared 17 percent and led gains of
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa stock index. Earlier the stock rose
the most since April 2, 2009.  Logistics company  LLX Logistica SA (LLXL3)  jumped 7.8 percent and
utility  MPX Energia SA (MPXE3)  rose 2.6 percent. Shipbuilder  OSX Brasil
SA (OSXB3) , whose main client is OGX, slid 3.6 percent. Coal unit  CCX
Carvao da Colombia SA  gained 5.9 percent.  The losses in the past two days pushed Batista, who has
said he wants to overtake  Carlos Slim  as the world’s wealthiest
person, to the 27th spot among the richest people on the planet
yesterday down from the eighth spot he had June 26, according to
the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  