-- Best-Returning Hospital Bonds Get Fuel From Court: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2012-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/best-returning-hospital-bonds-get-fuel-from-court-muni-credit.html
Investors pushing hospital debt to
the best returns in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market got
a signal to buy more after the U.S Supreme Court upheld
President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul.  The ruling yesterday on the 2010 Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act left in place a mandate that Americans
obtain health insurance or pay a fine, expanding the protection
to millions of people and curbing hospitals’ unpaid bills. The
institutions’ shares rose on the decision and muni health-care
bonds are poised to follow suit, according to Matt Fabian at
Municipal Market Advisors and Janney Capital Markets research.  Hospital debt has earned 13.9 percent in the past year,
beating the nine other muni industries tracked by  Barclays
Capital  and the 9.6 percent gain for the municipal market. The
number of covered patients may climb 30 percent, said Charles Hachten at Nuveen Asset Management, which has $11.8 billion of
hospital and long-term care bonds.  “For holders of not-for-profit hospital debt, this is good
news because it will increase the number of people coming to the
hospital who are insured,” Hachten, a muni health-care analyst,
said from  Chicago .  Health-care institutions have about $260 billion of debt,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The securities have benefited
as their lower ratings and higher yields drew investors seeking
to boost returns as municipal  interest rates  fell to the  lowest
levels  since the 1960s. Hospital bonds have an average Moody’s
Investors Service rating of four to five levels below the top,
according to Barclays.  Penalty Shrinks  The extra yield investors demand to buy 10-year hospital
debt with an A rating rather than top-grade munis fell to  1.39
percentage points  this week from about 1.8 points in January,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Some investors have
bought lower-rated hospital debt anticipating Obama’s law would
limit unpaid bills, Bill Black at Invesco Ltd. said last month.  Uncompensated costs totaled about $57 billion in 2008,
though hospitals get most of that back through government
programs, according to the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.  Shares of hospital companies led by Nashville-based  HCA
Holdings Inc. (HCA)  rose yesterday.  “Hospital bonds will trade up as well and that may attract
new investment dollars and help drive that sector,” said
Fabian, whose firm is based in Concord,  Massachusetts .  Stamford Hospital  A 30-year  Stamford  Hospital bond sold this month by the
Connecticut State Health & Educational Facilities Authority
traded yesterday with an average yield of 4.5 percent, or 1.35
percentage points above AAA debt, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The difference has narrowed from 1.52 points on June 8,
the bonds’ first secondary-market trades.  Most hospitals have been operating as if the overhaul
“would be the law of the land,” Alan Schankel, a managing
director at Janney in Philadelphia, wrote in a report yesterday.
As a result, the bonds may see limited shrinking of yield
spreads in coming months, he said.  In April, the month after the  Supreme Court  heard arguments
on challenges to the law, Moody’s Investors Service said in a
report that losing the individual mandate “would remove health-
care reform’s best feature for not-for-profit hospitals.”  The law does present challenges to hospitals on a longer
horizon because it stipulates that providers face more than $150
billion of cuts in Medicare reimbursement payments, a Moody’s analyst, 
Mark Pascaris, wrote in a report yesterday.  Still, total returns on health-care securities are set to
increase as investors will have confidence to look for higher
relative yields, said Ebby Gerry, who helps manage $14 billion
of municipals, including $840 million of hospital debt, at UBS
Global Asset Management Inc. in  New York .  “Hospitals now at least know what the rules are,” Gerry
said. “And it gives investors a greater chance to be able to
understand the risk.”  Following are pending sales:  NEW YORK CITY TRANSITIONAL FINANCE AUTHORITY plans to offer
$850 million of Building Aid Revenue Bonds next month, according
to the city’s Office of Management and Budget. The bonds are
secured by state payments to help finance public-school
buildings. Moody’s Investors Service rates the credit Aa3,
fourth-highest. (Added June 28)  HOUSTON plans to issue $100 million of revenue bonds as
soon as next week to refund debt, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Standard & Poor’s  rates the city AA, third-highest.
(Added June 29)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  