-- BMW Extends Toyota Cooperation to Fuel Cells, Sports Cars
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-06-29T10:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/bmw-extends-toyota-cooperation-to-fuel-cells-sports-cars.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  will cooperate on developing fuel cells to
power and designing components for a future sports car as the
automakers expand on their joint work to produce next-generation
car batteries.  The two manufacturers signed a memorandum of understanding
today which also includes collaboration on research into
lightweight technologies and the development of electric
powertrains, BMW said in a statement distributed before a press
conference at its Munich headquarters.  “For the BMW Group, strategic partnerships are an
essential part of our strategy,” Chief Executive Officer
 Norbert Reithofer  said in the text of a speech distributed in
advance of the joint news conference with Toyota President  Akio Toyoda . “It is one way of securing long-term access to
customers and technologies.”  Toyota, the world’s biggest hybrid-vehicle maker, signed an
agreement with BMW on Dec. 1 to cooperate on boosting
performance of lithium-ion batteries, which are used in all-
electric vehicles. At the time, the companies said they would
explore other projects to develop technology for reducing cars’
fuel consumption and emissions.  Toyota and BMW signed a memorandum of understanding for the
further collaborations today.  BMW ended talks on fuel-cell cooperation with Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the German company said on June 27. Fuel
cells make electricity in a chemical process that combines
hydrogen and oxygen, with water vapor as the only exhaust.  Joint Research  Research partnerships have become standard in the auto
industry as manufacturers look to reduce development expenses to
meet stricter emissions regulations.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury cars, works with
 PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  on engines for the Mini brand and on
components for hybrid vehicles, which can operate on both
electricity and gasoline or diesel. Those projects are under
review after GM took a stake in the Paris-based manufacturer as
part of a broader alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  