-- BOE Seen Adding to Stimulus as Europe Crisis Undermines Recovery
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/boe-seen-adding-to-stimulus-as-europe-crisis-undermines-recovery.html
The Bank of England will probably
expand its so-called quantitative easing program next week as
the debt crisis in Europe impedes the U.K.’s return to growth.  The nine-member Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor
 Mervyn King , will raise its  target for bond purchases  by 50
billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds, according to
30 of 41 economists in a Bloomberg news survey. Eight predict an
increase to 400 billion pounds, and the rest see a smaller
increase or no change.  King told reporters yesterday that Europe’s debt turmoil
has stoked uncertainty and tightened credit availability,
creating headwinds to Britain’s recovery from recession. Policy
makers may find it easier to act next month than they did at
their June 7 decision after inflation slowed to 2.8 percent, the
closest to their 2 percent target since November 2009.  “Growth is weak and  inflation  has come down, so that adds
to the case for doing more quantitative easing,” said  George Buckley , an economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London . “This
could be the end of it, provided things pick up as we expect,
though that’s still an open question.”  Officials voted 5-4 to keep their bond-purchase target at
325 billion pounds at this month’s policy decision. That
defeated a push by King,  Adam Posen  and  David Miles  for a 50
billion-pound expansion, and Markets Director  Paul Fisher ’s bid
for 25 billion pounds.  Awaiting News  The majority preferred to wait to assess the outcome of
June 17 elections in Greece, the European Council summit that
concluded yesterday and the results of the bank’s June 22
Financial Policy Committee meeting.  With no one party able to claim victory in  Greece , the
leading New Democracy party has been able to form a coalition on
pledges to keep the country in the common currency while
fighting for looser aid conditions from the euro area and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Euro-area leaders agreed early yesterday to ease terms on
loans to Spanish banks and paved the way to a direct
recapitalization of banks. The agreement sparked the biggest
gain in the euro this year.  King yesterday presented FPC recommendations that financial
institutions should dip into liquid buffers, a week after the
central bank completed the first round of a new auction to give
banks access to more cash. The move addresses concerns expressed
by some officials this month that lenders were bolstering
reserves with funds from their bond sales to the  Bank of
England .  Forty-nine of 50 economists in a separate Bloomberg survey
see no change next week in the benchmark rate from the record
low of 0.5 percent. One economist, Tom Vosa at National
Australia Bank, forecast a cut to 0.25 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  