-- Brazil’s Sabesp Tops Bovespa Index on Tariff Outlook
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2012-06-29T20:53:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/brazil-s-sabesp-tops-bovespa-index-on-tariff-outlook.html
Cia. de Saneamento Basico do Estado
de Sao Paulo  is the best performing stock on the Bovespa in the
first half on speculation the Brazilian utility will win
approval to raise rates more than in previous years.  Sabesp, as the world’s largest water utility by market
value is known, has climbed 48 percent since the start of the
year, the biggest gainer on the Bovespa index, which dropped 4.2
percent in the period. Brazil’s two-biggest utilities by  market
value ,  Cia. Energetica de Minas Gerais  and  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3) ,
posted a 41 percent gain and a 2.4 percent drop, respectively.  Investors are betting that Sabesp will benefit from a
tariff policy change being considered by regulators that may
take effect as soon as November, said SLW Corretora analyst
Erick Scott Hood and Omar Camargo Investimentos analyst Felipe Rocha. The company is also benefiting as slowing growth in
Brazil, the world’s second-largest developing economy, prompts
investors to seek refuge in companies whose revenue is not as
sensitive to swings in demand, Rocha said.  “There’s a positive outlook for the tariff revision,”
said Vicente Koki, a utilities analyst at CGD Securities, who
estimates a rate increase of about 8 percent in coming years.
“The new tariff structure should bring better increases than in
previous years.”  Changes to the model used to set tariffs by the  Sao Paulo 
water and energy regulator, known as  Arsesp , will make the rate
changes more transparent and will reflect the pace of
investments, Mario Azevedo de Arruda Sampaio, Sabesp’s investor
relations director, said by telephone. Sabesp raised tariffs by
4.1 percent in 2010 and 6.83 percent in 2011, he said.  ‘Ahead of the Curve’  “The market is always trying to get ahead of the curve,”
he said, adding that the company is performing better than
electricity utilities because slowing growth pares energy demand
from manufacturers. “Electric utilities are more dependent on
GDP. We depend on  population growth .”  Electricity utilities Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA and
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  have declined 31 percent and
27 percent this year, respectively.  Brazil ’s central bank, in
its quarterly inflation report yesterday, trimmed its 2012
growth forecast to 2.5 percent from a March estimate of 3.5
percent, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis and sluggish demand.  Borrowed shares in Sabesp, an indication of short selling,
total 0.7 percent of floating equity, the third-lowest of any
company in the index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Moments of Crisis’  “In moments of crisis, these utility shares act as a
defensive bet,” Carlos Nielebock at Icap, said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “You know the company may grow
slowly, but it’s consistent.”  Sabesp, which serves 27.1 million people, more than doubled
first-quarter net income to 491.9 million reais, according to a
May 10 regulatory filing. Revenue rose 13 percent to 2.59
billion reais.  Sabesp fell 29 centavos to 77 reais in Sao Paulo trading.  Cielo SA (CIEL3) , Brazil’s biggest card-payment processor, is the
second-best performer on the index this year with a 47 percent
gain.  OGX Petroleo (OGXP3)  & Gas Participacoes SA, which plunged in the
two days after cutting an output forecast at its first two
wells, was the worst performing with a 60 percent loss, followed
by  Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas Gerais SA (USIM5) ’s voting stock, which
declined 55 percent amid rising debt costs and shrinking demand
from carmakers.  “No one is going to stop consuming water or change their
sewage service because the economy is slowing,” said Sabesp’s
Arruda Sampaio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at   jbrice1@bloomberg.net  