-- Brazil Real Surges on Swap Auction, Europe: Sao Paulo Mover
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-06-29T21:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/brazil-real-advances-on-currency-swap-auction-europe-optimism.html
Brazil ’s real advanced the most in
nine months as European leaders expanded steps to stem the debt
crisis and the central bank auctioned currency swaps for the
third time this week to boost the  exchange rate .  Interest-rate futures yields rose for the first time in
seven days after euro-area leaders agreed to relax conditions on
emergency loans for Spanish banks. Brazil’s central bank
auctioned 60,000 currency swaps worth $3 billion today.  “It’s starting to break 2 at this point and it might do
it,” Ilan Solot, a London-based strategist at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co., said in a telephone interview. “The swap might
have been the biggest factor on the margin that led to this.”  The real appreciated 3.4 percent to 2.0094 per  U.S. dollar 
for the biggest gain since Sept. 23. The currency pared its
quarterly loss to 9.1 percent. Yields on the interest-rate
futures contract due in January 2014 rose three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 7.90 percent, after earlier climbing
to 7.95 percent.  The central bank auctioned 60,000 currency swap contracts
yesterday worth $949.3 million, according to data on the bank’s
website. The bank auctioned another 60,000 swap contracts June
27, rolling over $3 billion worth of contracts expiring July 2.  Stocks rose and the euro strengthened the most this year
after European leaders reached an accord that eased concern
banks will fail. After talks ended at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
today, leaders of the 17 euro countries dropped requirements
that taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s
banks and opened the way to recapitalize lenders directly.  Credit Controls  “This European plan will have repercussions in the
 currency market ,” Jose Carlos Amado, a currency trader at
Renascenca DTVM Ltda., said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real also gained after policy makers unwound credit
controls, according to Amado. Exporters may now raise capital
from foreign banks and companies as long as the funds are used
to export goods within 360 days, according to a central bank
statement yesterday.  “This will allow exporters to sell more and increase the
dollar supply,” Nathan Blanche, a partner at Tendencias
Consultoria Integrada, an economics consultant in Sao Paulo,
said yesterday.  Brazil’s real has lost 7.1 percent this year as the
 European debt crisis  sapped demand for the country’s assets and
compounded government efforts to weaken the currency and boost
exports.  The real’s rally today, the best among 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg, was heightened by a lack of trading
volume, Solot said.  Futures Yields  “There’s been a bit of disenchantment” with the
government interventions in the currency market, he said. “A
lot of people are not really interested in playing Brazil
anymore.”  Futures yields also rose on speculation stepped up efforts
to contain  Europe ’s debt crisis will boost global growth,
limiting the central bank’s ability to lower  interest rates ,
Italo Lombardi, Latin America economist at Standard Chartered
Bank, said by phone from  New York .  Brazil has cut the target interest rate by 4 percentage
points since August, more than any other member of the Group of
20 nations. Traders are betting that the benchmark may be
reduced from 8.5 percent to about 7.50 percent by the end of
this year as the government tries to revive economic growth,
interest-rate futures show.  “The market is positive because of this surprise coming
out of the Europe meeting,” Lombardi said. “It goes against
the idea of a more serious event happening in Europe, something
that would bring an abrupt slowdown in the global economy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  