-- Bullard Says More Easing Would Risk Sparking Inflation
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-06-29T16:10:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/bullard-says-more-easing-would-risk-sparking-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said current U.S. monetary policy is
appropriate and additional easing would risk a surge in
inflation.  “The ultra-easy monetary policy has been appropriate so
far, but could reignite a 1970s-type experience globally if
pursued too aggressively,” Bullard said in a speech in  Little
Rock ,  Arkansas , noting that the 1970s era included four
recessions in 13 years, double-digit inflation and double-digit
unemployment. The lesson of that decade: “Do not let the
inflation genie out of the bottle.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said on June 20 it will
expand the Operation Twist program to extend the maturities of
assets on its balance sheet and stands ready to take further
action as needed. The Fed also repeated its expectation that low
inflation and economic slack will make it appropriate to keep
its benchmark  interest rate  near zero until at least late 2014.  “If anything, the Committee may be trying to do too much
with monetary policy, risking monetary instability for the U.S.
and the global economy,” Bullard said, saying labor-market
policies can better address high unemployment. “The Committee
can respond as appropriate to a significant deterioration
relative to the current forecast.”  Bullard told reporters after his speech that “I wanted to
end the Twist program but I was willing to go with the
committee’s judgment and the chairman’s judgment” that it was
still needed in light of “somewhat weaker” data and risk from
Europe. Bullard, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year,
does participate in FOMC meetings.  U.S. Economy  The  U.S. economy  is likely to expand at about a 2.4 percent
rate this year and “a little over 3 percent” in each of the
following two years, he said.  While those figures were revised down at the recent Fed
meeting, the slowdown isn’t enough to prompt a third round of
so-called quantitative easing, Bullard told reporters.  “To get to QE3, you would have to get a sharp drop-off in
economic activity in the U.S. or a clear threat of deflation,”
he said. “As things stand right now, I don’t see either one of
those.”  Bullard also said a proposal for a quarterly monetary
policy report, which he and Philadelphia Fed’s  Charles Plosser 
have advocated, has a “distinct possibility” of happening and
would take “probably a couple of quarters to get it going” if
the policy makers were to reach agreement.  Economic Projections  “I think there is interest in the Fed in producing
something like this,” Bullard told reporters. “I am not saying
any decisions have been made, but I do think there is interest
because it is not clear” the release of economic projections
“is the best long-run outcome.”  Bullard was the first Fed official in 2010 to call for a
second round of asset purchases by the central bank. The Fed
pushed down its  target  interest rate close to zero in December
2008 and has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases totaling
$2.3 trillion in a bid to lower long-term borrowing costs and
boost the economy.  Inflation is near the Fed’s 2 percent goal, and falling
prices are not a current threat, Bullard said. “The U.S. price
level appears to be quite close to an appropriate price level
path,” he said.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  this week repeated his
call for more asset purchases to try to accelerate growth, while
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said purchases should be
“on the table” and used if the economy deteriorates or prices
seem likely to drop. Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker 
dissented last week from the Fed’s $267 billion extension of
Operation Twist, asserting it will spur inflation and not
significantly help the economy.  Bullard, 51, joined the St. Louis Fed’s research department
in 1990 and became president of the regional bank in 2008. His
district includes Arkansas and parts of Illinois, Indiana,
 Kentucky ,  Mississippi ,  Missouri  and Tennessee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  