-- Byco CEO Sees Return to Profit on New Refinery, Chemicals Plant
-- B y   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-29T05:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/byco-ceo-sees-return-to-profit-on-new-refinery-chemicals-plant.html
Byco Petroleum Pakistan Ltd. (BYCO) , the
Karachi-based refiner that posted three years of losses, expects
to return to profit next year as new plants start.  Byco will be profitable from January in the six months
ending June 30, 2013, Chief Executive Officer Amir Abbassciy
said in an interview. The company plans to begin production from
a new oil processing plant that will be the country’s biggest
refinery by August. It will spend $250 million building its
first petrochemical plant.  Pakistan ’s petroleum producers are seeking to expand as
economic growth boosts fuel demand. Byco’s plan would see it
transformed from the nation’s smallest refiner into one of the
largest producers, helping to boost earnings as it adds products
including benzene, toluene and xylene, reducing imports.  “Byco is heading for the next big thing in the refinery
business in Pakistan and they are now well placed to take
advantage,” said  Saad Khan , a  fund manager  at Askari Investment
Management Ltd. in Karachi, which oversees 17 billion rupees
($179 million) in stocks and bonds. “The company will be able
to gain market share with the biggest refinery and petroleum
product facility in the country.”  Byco’s new refinery, manufactured in Britain and assembled
in Pakistan, will be able to process 120,000 barrels a day and
be profitable from its first year of commercial operation,
Abbassciy said in Karachi yesterday. Pak-Arab Refinery Co.,
jointly owned by the governments of Pakistan and  Abu Dhabi , is
currently the country’s biggest refinery, with a production
capacity of 100,000 barrels a day, according to its  website .  Pakistan,  South Asia ’s biggest economy after  India , is
forecast to expand 4.3 percent in the year starting July 1,
according to government projections. Byco, which started
commercial production in 2004, has a 35,000-barrel-a-day
refinery at Mouza Kund in the western province of Baluchistan.  The company’s net loss narrowed to 2.3 billion rupees last
fiscal year from 3.2 billion rupees a year earlier. Sales fell
to 38.9 billion rupees from 41.1 billion rupees. The  shares  have
gained 31 percent this year in Karachi, compared with a 24
percent gain in the KSE index.  Abraaj Capital Ltd., a Dubai-based private equity firm,
owns a 40 percent stake in Byco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Farhan Sharif in Karachi  at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  