-- Camp Says Tax-Code Overhaul Should Be Bipartisan (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2012-06-29T18:08:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/camp-says-tax-code-overhaul-should-be-bipartisan-transcript-.html
Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee,
said a U.S. tax-code overhaul should be bipartisan, prevent a net
revenue increase and avoid shifts in the tax burden across income
groups. He was interviewed on “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,”
airing this weekend.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with the chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, Republican Congressman Dave Camp. Thank
you so much for being with us, Mr. Chairman.  REPRESENTATIVE DAVE CAMP: Well, it’s great to be with you.
Thanks.  HUNT: Let’s start with health care. That’s the story of the
week, obviously. The House in a couple weeks is going to go and
vote to repeal. That’s just a symbolic political gesture. What I
want to know is, since they said this was constitutional because
of the taxing power, will you try to repeal the Affordable Care
Act under reconciliation next January or February?  CAMP: Well, I think we’re going to do a repeal vote in July
right away.  HUNT: But that’s symbolic.  CAMP: Yeah, and I guess we’ll have to see what the make-up of
the Congress is and -- and where this issue...  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: If you have a majority, would you like to do it under
reconciliation?  CAMP: Well, I’d like to repeal the bill. And I’d like to do
it however we can, because I do think it -- this -- imposing the
federal government between individuals and their doctors is still
wrong. And just because something’s constitutional doesn’t make it
a good law.  HUNT: A lot of complaints from Republicans, this was just
what we thought it was, a tax, it’s a big tax, right? OK.  Barack
Obama  enacted a tax to get affordable care through. Mitt Romney,
Romneycare, big tax, even bigger tax, actually. Why is a Romney
tax good and an Obama tax bad?  CAMP: Well, from the Constitution standpoint, many of us
believe the states do have the taxing power to do this, but the
federal government doesn’t. Obviously, this changed yesterday with
the  Supreme Court  and they now said we have the taxing power to do
almost everything at the federal level. But on the positive side,
at least it does limit the  Commerce Clause , which over the past
few years has -- decades -- has been used to really drive
virtually every social agenda.  HUNT: Was Governor Romney’s Romneycare wrong, too?  CAMP: Well, I think for states to be able to do that, that’s
up to states. And I do think, frankly, our -- this issue, health
care, would benefit from some action in the states and not all at
the federal law.  HUNT: Of course, he -- he advocated a mandate at a federal
law. He endorsed John Chafee’s 1994 alternative to Hillarycare.
So  Mitt Romney  has come out before for a mandate on the federal
level. Was that wrong?  CAMP: Well, that’s not what he did as governor, obviously.
What he did as governor...  HUNT: A mandate at the state level.  CAMP: And at the state -- yeah, at the state level.  And
Massachusetts is a little different in terms of the make-up of its
working population and everything compared to everywhere else in
the country. But the states are all different. And they’re
different regions. And we should be able to take account for that.
And the problem is this one-size-fits-all federal law which raises
taxes by almost $800 billion, at least that we know of so far, is
going got be this tremendous burden on business, particularly
small business.  And, frankly, what we found is there’s this perverse
incentive. It’s going to be cheaper to pay the penalty than to
actually provide health care. So many employers will be...  HUNT: I understand the Republican case. What I’m trying to
get as, is Mitt Romney the guy who can make that case, having
endorsed a federal mandate and having enacted a mandate with a tax
increase in a state? Is he the best messenger to convey that
negative message?  CAMP: Well, I think there’s a lot of people messaging against
this whole federal, one-size-fits-all health care plan that really
imposes the federal government between doctors and patients, and
not to mention that the number of rules and regulations and
bureaucracies. I think this is -- issue should involve some
commonsense reforms at the federal level, clearly. We had a bill
that had some, as well. But we really also need to be able to have
the states continue to innovate in this area.  HUNT: Let’s move to one of your favorite topics, tax --  tax
reform . You’re going to do it next year, you’ve made it quite
clear. Every independent commission, Bowles-Simpson, Domenici-
Rivlin, says tax reform has to raise revenues -- raise revenues to
address the deficit. Will you do a tax reform that is revenue-
neutral or will you do a tax reform that actually net raises
revenues?  CAMP: Well, the concept is obviously to do revenue-neutral
tax reform.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: And the reason to do that is so that you can get
consensus to move forward. And we do need to lower rates and
broaden the base, simplify our code, and make us more competitive
internationally. We have the highest corporate  tax rate  in the
world. It’s a very complex code. It’s all expiring.  HUNT: But you won’t raise any revenue from that effort?  (CROSSTALK)  CAMP: But we -- we can raise revenue through pro-growth
policies. And that’s the real message that people are missing.  HUNT: But a lot of people think that dynamic scoring really -
- I mean, it didn’t work under Reagan. I mean, is it -- I mean,
are you going to come up with a bill that doesn’t net raise
revenues unless you get an economic growth, which we don’t know if
we’ll get or not?  CAMP: Unemployment’s been 8 percent for 40 months. A huge tax
increase is going to further depress the ability of the economy to
recover. But if we can get pro-growth tax policies in, we’ve got
estimates that in the first year alone, it’s a million jobs.  HUNT: OK, so no net...  CAMP: So it’s a combination...  HUNT: No net, at least in a conventional sense.  CAMP: Well, there’s two things we need to do. We need pro-
growth  tax policy , but we need to address our debt. Our debt is
more than 100 percent of our entire economy. According to Simpson-
Bowles, this is depressing economic growth by about 1 percent. And
that also is about a million jobs.  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Let me ask you this about the tax reform you’re going
to do, because everyone says, all right, let’s go, we’ll give tax
cuts that’ll help the rich a lot, but we’ll close loopholes that
the wealthy enjoy. Erskine Bowles -- you served on the commission,
you know he knows what he’s talking about -- says you can’t do
that. He says there just isn’t enough money getting rid of tax
expenditures that only affect the upper-income people. Are you
willing, in order to lower rates, to increase taxes by -- by
closing loopholes for middle-class taxpayers in areas like home
mortgage deduction?  CAMP: Well, clearly, when you do tax reform, one of the
things that you have to look at is the distributional table. And I
think clearly this approach is going to have to have bipartisan
support. This is not something we can do Republican-only.  Obviously, that’s what the Democrats did on health care. It
didn’t work very well. That’s why we’ve had so many hearings to
get input from not only Republicans and Democrats, but from small-
business owners and think tanks and academic experts. So it’s very
important we move this forward together.  HUNT: It’s got to be bipartisan?  CAMP: It does have to be bipartisan. But I...  HUNT: Does the  tax code  have to remain as progressive as it
is right now?  CAMP: I think you’re going to have to be -- you’re going to
have to certainly take into account progressivity. We have a very
progressive tax code. As we know, half of Americans don’t pay any
income taxes at all.  HUNT: I’m trying -- I’m trying to get you to say we’ll be as
progressive when you finish.  CAMP: I believe it will be very close to where we are
currently.  HUNT: OK. Let me ask you this. You have told people -- and
others have -- what taxes you want to cut, 25 percent top rate --
but you haven’t told us anything about what preferences you’re
going to close. Now, there’s going to be a big vote, November 6th.
Don’t you owe it to Americans not just to tell them about the
goodies, but to tell them how we get there? Be specific before the
voters vote.  CAMP: Well, that’s why we’re having all of these hearings.
We’re actually taking ideas on these items. It’s not just me
issuing a bill and pronouncing from on top of a mountain what
we’re going to do. We’re actually hearing from business-owners,
employers, people who create jobs to find out, which of these
provisions work?  Now, there’s 100 of them that expire every two years. There’s
about 40 tax provisions that are already expired. Well, if they’re
so good, why are they temporary?  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: Will you lay out those specifics before November 6th?  CAMP: We don’t have a specific bill ready by November 6th,
but I had laid out a draft proposal, for example, on international
tax law...  HUNT: You have on international, but how about -- how about
individual? Will you tell us at least some of the loopholes you’ll
close before November 6th?  CAMP: Well, we know this. We know we don’t have to close all
the loopholes. And what we’re doing -- and I’m still meeting with
groups on all of these items.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: It’s a very complicated and longstanding process.  HUNT: I get the impression, Mr. Chairman, you’re not going to
put out specifics...  (CROSSTALK)  CAMP: We’re not going to probably put out a bill, but we are
going to vote in July on extending current law for a year. We
think that’s important to do.  HUNT: Are you going to stick with your corporate tax reform
proposal, despite the complaints from some? Are you open to
amending it and how?  CAMP: Well, we had three options in there. And so we do have
an ability to make some changes there. And that was really a draft
proposal, was not meant to be...  (CROSSTALK)  HUNT: So that’s not locked in Congress (ph)?  CAMP: It’s not locked in.  HUNT: OK, let me ask you this. On tax reform, would you be
willing, as you lower the rates dramatically, would you be willing
to raise the  capital gains  and dividend tax rate to equalize it,
as  Ronald Reagan  did in 1986?  CAMP: Well, we still -- the Senate and -- and the House have
had the first hearings in 70 years on tax policy.  HUNT: Right.  CAMP: We had one Thursday at 10 o’clock, but we ended up
postponing it for obvious reasons of the court decision...  HUNT: Right. Right.  CAMP: ... exactly on capital gains. So we’re not going to --
I’m not going to make any pronouncements on that until we get
through our hearing process on that. But clearly...  HUNT: But you wouldn’t run that out right now?  CAMP: We have to look at where the rest of the world is. The
rest of the world has much lower investment taxes than we do in
the  United States . And so we have to be aware of where the rest of
the world is, is, as well, on that before we just -- the problem
with...  HUNT: Ronald Reagan raised the capital gains and dividends
tax. That didn’t hurt the economy, did it?  CAMP: Different time, obviously, a different set of
circumstances. The world economy has changed dramatically. Capital
is much more mobile than it was in the ’80s, so we have to take
that into account as we look at it.  HUNT: Chairman Camp, you are in the middle of everything.
Thank you so much for being with us, and have a very happy Fourth
of July holiday.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR SALE
OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG LP.  #<738796.1204164.3.0.2.9.25>#
 