-- Camp Says Tax Changes Must Be Bipartisan as Details Hazy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/camp-says-tax-changes-must-be-bipartisan-as-details-hazy.html
A U.S.  tax code  overhaul should be
bipartisan, prevent a net revenue increase and avoid shifting
the tax burden across income groups, said Representative  Dave Camp , who will design the Republicans’ proposal.  Camp, who wants to cut the top individual and corporate tax
rates to 25 percent from 35 percent, said he doesn’t plan to
release a bill before the Nov. 6 election showing what tax
breaks he would limit or end to offset the rate reduction. Camp
was interviewed on Bloomberg Television’s “Political Capital
With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.  “It’s not just me issuing a bill and pronouncing from on
top of a mountain what we’re going to do,” said Camp, the
Michigan Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means
Committee. “We’re not going to probably put out a bill.”  Camp’s guidelines for a tax overhaul present him with a
series of challenges as he makes plans to write a bill and his
panel continues a series of hearings.  He is seeking bipartisanship, which is complicated by his
opposition to using the overhaul of the tax code to raise more
revenue. Democrats, including President  Barack Obama , say that
long-term deficit reduction must include higher taxes,
particularly for top earners.  Camp also wants to avoid major changes in the distribution
of the U.S. tax burden while expressing concern about raising
tax rates on  capital gains  and dividends, which tend to benefit
the highest-income taxpayers.  Tax Breaks  Camp’s rate reduction targets would require lawmakers to
consider curtailing popular tax breaks for mortgage interest and
state and local taxes.  Jay Carney , the White House spokesman, told reporters
yesterday that “Republican budget plans would raise taxes on
every middle-class family to give every millionaire and
billionaire a $250,000 tax cut.”  “There is simply no way to achieve the revenue-neutral
promise that has been made on that expensive, many-trillion-
dollar  tax cut  unless middle-class Americans get hit hard,”
Carney said.  In the interview, Camp wouldn’t endorse specific proposals
for offsetting rate reductions, such as raising taxes on capital
gains and dividends.  “We have to look at where the rest of the world is,” said
Camp, who has released a draft of changes to the international
tax system. “The rest of the world has much lower investment
taxes than we do in the  United States .”  ‘Very Close’  Camp also said the code would be “very close to where we
are currently” in terms of how progressive it is.  Any revenue increases, he said, would come through economic
growth generated from a simpler tax code with lower rates.  “We can raise revenue through pro-growth policies,” he
said. “And that’s the real message that people are missing.”  Camp, 58, served on Obama’s bipartisan fiscal commission in
2010 and the congressional deficit-reduction supercommittee in
2011.  On the fiscal commission, Camp voted against the
recommendations by its co-chairmen, Democrat  Erskine Bowles  and
Republican  Alan Simpson , which called for tax increases as part
of a deficit-reduction effort.  In July, the Republicans who control the House have said
they will vote to extend for one year the tax cuts that expire
at the end of 2012, preserving current rates on income, capital
gains, dividends and estates.  Overhaul Process  Camp wants to pair that bill with a process for expediting
a tax overhaul in 2013.  He said the process will be similar to the fast-track
system used for expediting congressional approval of trade
agreements. Under that framework, Congress had a set of
deadlines and an up-or-down vote on a proposal coming from the
president.  Camp said lawmakers haven’t determined exactly how that
process would work for taxes.  Camp’s committee also has jurisdiction over the health care
law, which was upheld by the U.S.  Supreme Court  on June 28. The
 House Republicans  have scheduled a vote July 11 to repeal the
law, repeating a vote from last year.  “I’d like to repeal the bill and I’d like to do it however
we can,” he said, showing openness to using a procedure called
reconciliation that allows Senate passage with a simple
majority. “Imposing the federal government between individuals
and their doctors is still wrong. Just because something’s
constitutional doesn’t make it a good law.”  Mitt Romney  Camp distinguished between the federal health care law and
the Massachusetts law signed by Republican presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , which included a mandate to purchase
health insurance and penalties for noncompliance. He said the
Supreme Court’s ruling expands the federal government’s taxing
power beyond what the country’s founders envisioned.  Asked whether Romney can be an effective political
messenger on health care, Camp said: “I think there’s a lot of
people messaging against this whole federal, one-size-fits-all
health care plan that really imposes the federal government
between doctors and patients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  