-- Canada April Gross Domestic Product Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-06-29T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/canada-april-gross-domestic-product-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
the April GDP report released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product grew 0.3% in April, after
edging up 0.1% in March. Most of the April increase was
attributable to mining and oil and gas extraction and, to a
lesser extent, wholesale trade. Transportation services as well
as the agriculture, forestry, fishing and hunting sector
increased. Retail trade, manufacturing, accommodation and food
services and the public sector (education, health, and public
administration combined) declined.  Mining and oil and gas extraction rises  Mining and oil and gas extraction rose 2.7% in April after
declining 2.0% in February and 1.1% in March. Oil and gas
extraction advanced 2.4% in April as crude petroleum production
rebounded from maintenance and production difficulties in
February and March. Natural gas production was down slightly in
April, and storage levels declined for the first time in a year.
Support activities for mining and oil and gas extraction
increased 5.1% as drilling and rigging services advanced.  Mining excluding oil and gas extraction grew 3.1% in April
with increased output at copper, nickel, lead and zinc mines as
well as potash mines.  Wholesale trade increases while retail trade is down  Wholesale trade was up 1.2% in April, a fifth consecutive
monthly increase. There was notable growth in the wholesaling of
agricultural supplies and building materials. In contrast, the
wholesaling of farm products and food, beverage and tobacco
products declined.  Retail trade fell 0.8% in April after increasing 0.5% in
March. Output decreased at clothing and clothing accessories
stores, new car dealers as well as general merchandise stores
(which include department stores). Conversely, retailing
activity at health and personal care stores and gasoline
stations was up.  Manufacturing declines  Manufacturing declined 0.3% in April. Durable goods
production decreased 0.5% as a result of lower output of
fabricated metal products and non-metallic mineral products,
which outweighed gains in primary metals and machinery
manufacturing. The manufacturing of non-durable goods was
unchanged in April, as increased production of petroleum and
coal products and chemical products was offset by declines in
textiles, clothing and food products.  Transportation and warehousing services increase  Transportation and warehousing services rose 0.7%, as
trucking and rail transportation benefited from the strength in
mining and wholesale trade.  Construction edges down  Construction edged down 0.1% in April as declines in
residential construction and repair works outweighed gains in
non-residential building and engineering construction. In
contrast, the output of real estate agents and brokers (+1.2%)
was up for a third consecutive month as activity in the home
resale market continued to increase.  Other industries  There were increases in the agriculture, forestry, fishing
and hunting sector in April. The public sector edged down 0.1%,
primarily as a result of declines in public administration.
Accommodation and food services as well as the arts,
entertainment and recreation sector also decreased in April.  Note to readers  The monthly gross domestic product (GDP) by industry data
at basic prices are chained volume estimates with 2002 as the
reference year. This means that the data for each industry and
each aggregate are obtained from a chained volume index
multiplied by the industry’s value added in 2002. For the 1997
to 2008 period, the monthly data are benchmarked to annually
chained Fisher volume indexes of GDP obtained from the constant-
price input-output tables.  For the period starting with January 2009, the data are
derived by chaining a fixed-weight Laspeyres volume index to the
prior period. The fixed weights are 2008 industry prices.  This approach makes the monthly GDP by industry data more
comparable with the expenditure-based GDP data, chained
quarterly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  