-- Canada Dollar Gains Most This Year as EU Deal Stokes Risk Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-29T21:20:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/canadian-dollar-extends-gains-after-gdp-growth-tops-predictions.html
Canada ’s currency advanced the most
since November after European leaders agreed to relax conditions
for emergency loans to Spanish banks, easing demand for havens
and driving stocks and commodities higher.  The currency extended its weekly and monthly increases
after the nation’s statistics agency reported the economy
expanded in April more than forecasters predicted, reducing odds
of central bank interest-rate cuts.  “Today is all about squeezing the short euro players,”
Firas Askari, head currency trader at  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  in
Toronto, wrote in an e-mail, saying the Canadian dollar is
benefiting from the move higher in the euro and stocks. “The
European result is a good first step, but the devil is always in
the details and the implementation.”  Canada’s dollar, nicknamed the loonie, climbed 1.6 percent
to C$1.0166 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto, rising the
most on an intraday basis since Nov. 30. One Canadian dollar
buys 98.37 cents. The currency rose 0.8 percent this week and
1.6 percent in June.  “I don’t think there’s a lot more upside to the Canadian
dollar from these levels,”  Steve Butler , managing director in
Toronto at  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotiabank, said by e-mail.
“Worries over  Asia , worries over the U.S. and the situation in
 Europe  is still dire. Band-aids are short-term solutions.”
Butler said the “ideal place” to sell the Canadian dollar and
buy U.S. dollars is in the area between C$1.0120 and C$1.0140.  The world’s 10th largest  economy expanded  0.3 percent
following a March gain of 0.1 percent,  Statistics Canada  said
today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected
a 0.2 percent gain, based on the median of 23 estimates. Mining
and oil and gas extraction advanced 2.7 percent, after declining
in the previous two months following maintenance shutdowns.  ‘Moderately Encouraging’  Odds of a cut in the central bank’s overnight target rate
by year-end fell to about 30 percent after the gross domestic
product report, from 45 percent yesterday, according to
Bloomberg calculations on overnight index swaps.  Canada’s dollar gained along with other risk-sensitive
currencies, tracking the 17-nation euro higher, as European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said officials meeting in
Brussels agreed to drop the condition that emergency loans to
Spanish banks give creditor governments preferred status.  “A moderately encouraging European Union summit helps
smooth a major tail risk for the global economy -- that’s
positive for commodity currencies,” Tom Levinson, a currency
strategist in  London  at ING Groep NV, said in a telephone
interview.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2.5 percent. Oil
for August delivery gained 9.2 percent to $84.87 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day rally since
March 2009. Crude is Canada’s largest export.  Linkers Slump  Government bonds declined, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year bond higher by six basis points, or 0.06
percentage points, to 1.74 percent. The price of the 2.75
percent security maturing in June 2022 declined 58 cents to
C$109.18.  Canadian  government bonds  that allow investors to hedge
against gains in consumer prices are posting their worst first-
half returns in five years as traders’ expectations for
inflation drop to the lowest level since 2009.  The so-called linkers are up 2 percent since January, the
least since the comparable period in 2007, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The  break-even rate  on the 10-
year security, a measure of what traders predict consumer price
increases will average during that period, touched 1.786
percentage points yesterday, the lowest level since May 2009.  The loonie has gained 0.8 percent this year among 10
developed-nation currencies in Bloomberg Correlation Weighted
Indexes, with the U.S. dollar adding 0.2 percent. The leading
decliners are the yen, falling 3.8 percent, and the euro,
dropping 2.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  