-- Canada April Economic Growth Accelerates to 0.3% on Oil
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-06-29T14:44:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/canada-april-economic-growth-accelerates-to-0-3-on-oil.html
Canada ’s economic growth accelerated
in April as the country’s oil and gas producers recovered from
shutdowns earlier this year and mining companies boosted output.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.3 percent following a
March gain of 0.1 percent, Statistics Canada said today in
Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 0.2
percent gain, based on the median of 23  estimates . Mining and
oil and gas extraction advanced 2.7 percent, after declining in
the previous two months following maintenance shutdowns.  The data suggest the world’s 10th largest economy is set to
accelerate in the second quarter from the 1.9 percent annualized
pace recorded for prior three months as  Bank of Canada  Governor
 Mark Carney  considers raising borrowing costs. Carney forecast
in April that growth in the first two quarters of this year
would be 2.5 percent, and that an interest-rate increase “may
become appropriate” as the economy approaches its capacity.  “To help sustain this higher growth rate and to counter
financial market pressures emanating from the European sovereign
debt crisis, the Bank of Canada is likely to keep monetary
conditions highly accommodative in the near term,”  Paul Ferley ,
assistant chief economist at Royal Bank of Canada in Toronto,
said in a note to investors.  The central bank has kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged at 1
percent since September 2010.  Rate Increase  Investors have been paring bets on a Bank of Canada
interest-rate increase amid the deepening debt crisis in  Europe 
and as Carney said the economy may grow less than the bank
projected this year.  “Since our previous forecast in April, there has been a
further slowing in global activity, including marginally in the
U.S., and the first quarter was somewhat weakened,” Carney told
reporters in Halifax,  Nova Scotia  on June 21.  The central bank, which has forecast the country’s economy
would expand by 2.4 percent for 2012 as a whole, will update its
outlook in a monetary policy report to be published July 18.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg anticipate 2.1 percent growth
for Canada in 2012, the third highest among Group of Seven
nations. The economy grew 2 percent in April from a year
earlier,  Statistics Canada  reported today.  Swap Rate  Canada’s 12-month overnight index swap rate, which is tied
to forecasts for the Bank of Canada’s policy rate, was 0.9325
percent at 9:58 a.m. in Toronto trading, from 0.8804 percent
late yesterday and 0.9547 percent at the end of last week.  Canada’s dollar climbed 1.4 percent to C$1.0192 per  U.S.
dollar  in Toronto from 1.0332 late yesterday.  Oil and gas extraction advanced 2.4 percent in April, while
support activities for the industry, such as drilling and
rigging services, rose 5.1 percent, Statistics Canada said
today. Mining excluding oil and gas rose 3.1 percent, Statistics
Canada said.  Wholesalers increased output by 1.2 percent in April, a
fifth consecutive gain, while transportation services advanced
0.7 percent. Manufacturers recorded a 0.3 percent decline in
production, and construction output was down 0.1 percent.  In a separate report, Statistics Canada said raw material
costs for the country’s industrial companies fell 1 percent in
May on lower prices for crude oil, while the prices of their
finished products were unchanged. Economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News projected raw material prices would fall 2
percent, while finished products would be unchanged in May. From
a year earlier, raw material costs fell 9.9 percent, and the
industrial-product price index rose 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  