-- Carl Icahn Sues Forest Labs for Access to Company Records
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-29T19:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/carl-icahn-sues-forest-labs-for-access-to-company-records.html
Carl Icahn  sued  Forest Laboratories
Inc. (FRX)  for access to its books and records, alleging that the
drugmaker is withholding information from shareholders and
hasn’t met its commitments on corporate governance.  Icahn, 76, is demanding documents giving details of a 2011
stock repurchase program and information on the company’s
succession plans, according to the complaint made public today
in Delaware Chancery Court. Forest denied Icahn’s request for a
full inspection, so he was forced to sue, according to the
complaint.  “The purposes of the demand were to investigate potential
mismanagement, breaches of fiduciary duty, conflicts of
interest, improper influence and conduct and/or misleading
public statements,” Icahn said in the complaint.  Icahn is New York-based Forest’s second-largest
 shareholder , with 9.9 percent of the stock, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. He nominated four directors to the
company’s board this month in a proxy fight against the
drugmaker.  “We regret that Mr. Icahn has resorted once again to his
tired playbook designed for maximum distortion, distraction and
litigation rather than engaging constructively with the
company,” Forest said in an e-mailed statement. “Mr. Icahn is
simply recycling arguments that were rejected last year by a
vast majority of Forest shareholders.”  Succession Planning  Forest said the company is engaged in ongoing succession
planning with the help of an executive search firm to provide
candidate evaluation services at the appropriate time.  Icahn argued in his complaint that in the absence of a
viable  succession plan , it appears Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Howard Solomon, 84, who has been on the board for the
last 48 years, intends to hand over the company to his son.  “Solomon is one of the most successful CEOs in the
industry and it would be both inappropriate and unusual to
announce his successor at this time,” the company said.  In a letter submitted after the complaint, lawyers for
Icahn asked Chancery Court Judge Leo E. Strine Jr. to schedule a
conference to establish a trial date at the end of July.
Forest’s annual shareholder meeting is scheduled to take place
on Aug. 15, according to the letter.  “The materials plaintiffs seek will contain information
important to the stockholders in making their decision and to
the proxy advisory firms in making their recommendation,”
Richard Renck, an attorney for Icahn, said in the letter.  Earnings Guidance  Among the items Icahn requested are documents detailing the
company’s announcement earlier this month that it was reducing
its fiscal year 2013 earnings guidance by more than 30 percent,
and details on whether Forest’s board caused the company to
enter into contracts with “onerous” change of control
provisions, according to the complaint.  Forest offered to produce a limited number of documents
related to the share repurchase program, its revised earnings
guidance and the contractual change-in-control provisions,
according to the complaint.  “The Icahn parties were unable to accept the limited
inspections because it failed to include the rights to inspect
information that is absolutely critical to the looming decision
before the Forest electorate,” Icahn said in the complaint.  Forest rose 2.4 percent to $34.95 at 3:13 p.m. in  New York 
trading. The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  The case is High River Limited Partnership v. Forest
Laboratories Inc., CA7663, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  