-- CFTC Said to Vote 5-0 to Propose Cross-Border Swaps Guidance
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-29T19:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/cftc-said-to-vote-5-0-on-proposing-cross-border-swaps-guidance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission voted to propose guidance for the international reach
of Dodd-Frank Act derivatives rules for  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other financial institutions,
according to two people briefed on the matter.  The guidance approved today after a unanimous vote by the
CFTC’s five commissioners will determine which overseas units of
U.S. banks must comply with rules dictated by the 2010
regulatory overhaul. The vote was conducted through a private
process in which commissioners gave their approval on paper.  “During a default or crisis, the risk that builds up
offshore inevitably comes crashing back onto U.S. shores,” ,
CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in a statement. At least $2
billion in credit-derivatives trading losses in  London  at
JPMorgan demonstrate the need for guarding against risks
accumulated in overseas operations of U.S. firms, he said.  Financial firms set up legal entities in part to minimize
regulatory, capital and other requirements through “regulatory
arbitrage.” Gensler said. The guidance allows for so-called
substituted compliance in some cases where overseas
jurisdictions have comparable rules, he said.  “Foreign swap dealers, as well as overseas branches of
U.S. swap dealers, in certain circumstances, may rely on
substituted compliance when transacting with foreign affiliates
guaranteed or operating as conduits of U.S. entities,” Gensler
said in the statement.  The CFTC document will be open for public comment, which
Gensler said isn’t required for so-called interpretive guidance.
The agency didn’t immediately release the guidance or a separate
document governing the timetable for compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  