-- CFTC Skips ‘Intergalactic’ Power in Dodd-Frank Guidance
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-29T22:36:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/cftc-skips-intergalactic-swaps-power-in-dodd-frank-guidance.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and other banks won greater ability to fall under
foreign regulations when they trade swaps overseas under
guidance proposed for the Dodd-Frank Act’s international reach.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  members, in a private
vote, unanimously approved proposing interpretive guidance
allowing for so-called substituted compliance for branches,
subsidiaries and other overseas affiliates of U.S. banks when
foreign jurisdictions have comparable rules. Banks have spent
two years lobbying against efforts to automatically apply Dodd-
Frank to their overseas operations, saying doing so would hurt
their ability to compete.  “During a default or crisis, the risk that builds up
offshore inevitably comes crashing back onto U.S. shores,” CFTC
Chairman  Gary Gensler  said yesterday in a statement. The 111-
page proposal is open for public comment, which Gensler said
isn’t required for guidance.  The international reach of Dodd-Frank has been among the
more contentious issues affecting rules intended to reduce risk
and increase transparency in the $648 trillion global swaps
market. Group of 20 member nations sought tougher rules for
derivatives after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
and the U.S. rescue of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)  during
the 2008 credit crisis.  Gensler has said the collapse of AIG, which booked  credit
derivatives  in  Europe , and the more recent loss of at least $2
billion by London traders at JPMorgan’s chief investment office
show the need to close potential loopholes in Dodd-Frank.
Regulations should provide oversight of derivatives traded
overseas so risk doesn’t reach U.S. taxpayers and the  Federal
Reserve , Gensler has said.  Revenue Source  Swaps trading has been a major source of revenue for large
U.S. banks, and some of them have conducted roughly half of such
trades overseas, often through branches or subsidiaries.
JPMorgan, for example, often derives as much of its quarterly
revenue from global operations as from those in the U.S.,  Don Thompson , an associate general counsel,  said on Feb. 8 .  “If JPMorgan overseas operates under different rules than
our foreign competitors, we can no longer provide the best
products and services to our U.S. clients or our foreign
clients,” JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon said at
a U.S. House hearing on June 19. “The rules at the transaction
level about margin reporting, all those requirements may enable
Deutsche Bank to make the better deal.”  The guidance sets up two types of rules. Entity regulations
govern capital, data record-keeping and internal business
conduct standards, such as for chief compliance officers.
Transaction regulations govern how trades are guaranteed by
central clearinghouses that stand between buyers and sellers,
margin, trade execution and sales practices.  Comparable Requirements  Foreign swap dealers could meet entity-level rules through
compliance with comparable overseas requirements, Gensler said.
Overseas branches may be allowed to use substituted compliance
for transaction rules when trading with clients that have a
guarantee from a U.S. company or operate as conduits of U.S.
entities.  Dodd-Frank transaction rules also may not apply to
transactions between overseas affiliates of U.S. firms and
counterparties that lack a U.S. company guarantee, Gensler said.  “If for some reason, there are not comparable laws of
self-interest in nations, and there is the possibility that the
lack thereof would be a potential matter of concern to the U.S.,
our law requires that we address it in an appropriate fashion,
and we will do so,”  Bart Chilton , a Democratic CFTC
commissioner, said in a statement.  Initial Draft  An initial draft of the proposal shared with commissioners
on June 1 was guided by a view that the agency could have wide-
ranging power overseas through what Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican commissioner, dubbed an “intergalactic  commerce
clause ” in its regulations. Revisions during the last month
crafted between Gensler and others on the five-member panel have
“tempered the outer limits of our initial approach,” Sommers
said in a statement yesterday.  Scott O’Malia , the second Republican commissioner on the
five-member panel, said in a statement that he has been assured
the guidance will get another vote after the agency reviews
public comments. O’Malia said he would have opposed the current
version if it were subject to a final vote.  “Although the proposed guidance expressly states that the
commission will exercise its regulatory authority over cross-
border activities in a manner consistent with the principles of
international comity, the commission’s proposed approach could
be described as unilateral and dismissive of foreign law,”
O’Malia said.  Overlapping Rules  European Union and U.S. regulators have struggled to align
the substance and timing of the measures, with banks warning
that inconsistencies or overlapping rules may increase costs and
give foreign competitors an advantage.  “If Dodd-Frank derivatives rules are applied to operations
outside the U.S. it raises the issue of overlapping or even
conflicting requirements,”  David R. Sahr , a Washington-based
partner at Mayer Brown LLP law firm, said in a telephone
interview before the guidance was released.  The potential for wide-ranging U.S. regulators spurred
opposition in Europe,  Japan  and elsewhere.  Michel Barnier , the
European Union’s commissioner for financial services, said on
June 21 that U.S. regulators, including the CFTC, must “show
leadership” and apply rules fairly.  “They must be prepared to rely on equivalent rules in host
countries,” Barnier said in a Financial Times column. In a June
12 letter to the CFTC, representatives of  Mizuho Corporate Bank ,
Ltd., a subsidiary of Tokyo-based  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,
urged respect for Japanese law.  SEC Proposal  The Securities and Exchange Commission, which has
jurisdiction over parts of the credit swaps market, has said it
will soon propose its own method of extending the international
reach of Dodd-Frank.  House Republicans  have criticized the CFTC
for relying on interpretive guidance that lacks an assessment of
compliance costs instead of a formal rulemaking.  The CFTC unanimously approved a second document governing
the timetable for compliance with the cross-border guidance. The
phased-in compliance would expire for U.S. swap dealers on Jan.
1. For non-U.S. swap dealers and foreign branches of U.S. swap
dealers, the timetable would expire one year after the cross-
border proposal.  “The release on phased compliance also allows time for the
CFTC, foreign regulators and market participants to continue to
consult and coordinate on regulation of cross-border swaps
activity, as well as the appropriate implementation of
substituted compliance,” Gensler said in a separate statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  