-- Business Activity in U.S. Unexpectedly Grew at a Faster Pace
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-06-29T14:23:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/chicago-ism-activity-index-rose-to-52-9-in-june-from-52-7.html
Business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly expanded in June at a faster pace as production and
employment rebounded.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business activity  barometer  increased to 52.9 from 52.7 in
May. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. Economists projected the purchasing managers’ gauge
would decline to 52.3, according to the median of 51  estimates 
in a Bloomberg News survey.  The report contrasts with other regional figures this month
that showed manufacturing was cooling. The industry is holding
steady even as the fallout of the  European debt crisis  limits
orders and anxiety over the so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S.
holds back further expansion.  “We don’t see any scope for a near-term significant pick-
up in manufacturing, but it’s not straight into the gutter
either,” said Sean Incremona, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in
 New York , who projected the Chicago index would rise. “It does
look like we can maintain a mild pace of growth in the sector.”  Stocks jumped, joining a global rally, after European
leaders reached an agreement that eased concern banks will fail.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2 percent to 1,355.77 at
10:22 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the
yield on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.65 percent from 1.58
percent late yesterday.  Projections in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 50 to 56.  Chicago Survey  Economists watch the Chicago index and regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of total growth.  Consumer confidence  declined in June to the lowest level
this year as the labor market showed few signs of improving.,
another report showed.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final sentiment
index fell to 73.2 this month from 79.3 in May. The gauge was
projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 74.1, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Consumer spending  stalled in May as slower job gains and a
lack of wage growth prompted Americans to cut back, figures from
the Commerce Department as showed today.  Spending Stalls  Purchases were unchanged, the weakest since November, after
a 0.1 percent rise the prior month that was smaller than
initially reported.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s national factory
index, which will be reported on July 2, probably slid to 52 in
June from 53.5 the prior month, according to the  median 
projection in a Bloomberg survey. As in the Chicago survey, a
reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  The Chicago group’s production gauge climbed to 57 from 50.
The employment measure increased to 60.4, a four-month high,
from 57 the prior month.  The report also showed a slowdown in bookings. The index of
new orders dropped to 51.9, the lowest since September 2009,
from 52.9. The measure of backlogs slumped to 42.2, also the
weakest in almost three years.  “It’s obvious that our customers are keeping inventories
down and are scheduling orders based solely on known demand due
to the economic uncertainty,” M. Jack Sanders, president and
chief operating officer of Sonoco Products Co., said at a June
13 conference.  “There’s no noticeable movement in one direction or the
other,” said Sanders, whose Hartsville, South Carolina-based
company makes boxes, food cans and industrial packaging.  Other regional reports pointed to a slowdown. Manufacturing
in the Philadelphia area shrank in June at the fastest pace in
almost a year, while New York-region factories expanded at the
slowest pace in seven months, according to reports issued
earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  