-- China Chengxin Credit Rating to Start to Rate Bonds in Hong Kong
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T09:50:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/china-chengxin-credit-rating-to-start-to-rate-bonds-in-hong-kong.html
China Chengxin Credit Management
Co., one of the country’s main credit ratings agencies, will
start rating bonds in  Hong Kong  as more Chinese companies sell
debt in the city.  China Chengxin has obtained a credit rating license from
Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission, said Philip Li,
managing director of China Chengxin Asia-Pacific Credit Ratings
Co., the company’s Hong Kong unit.  “We will try to target those corporates which have closer
relationships with their parent company in China,” Li said in a
telephone interview today.  Chinese companies are increasingly turning to Hong Kong to
sell debt denominated in China’s currency, the  yuan . Corporate
issuance for the so-called Dim Sum bonds, some of which don’t
have ratings, increased 11 percent to 89.4 billion yuan this
year.  In August, China’s Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  announced a 50
billion yuan quota of Dim Sum sales by mainland-based companies
when he visited the city. Baosteel Group Corp., one of China’s
largest state-owned steelmakers, raised 2.9 billion yuan in
February as the first issuer under the program. Electricity
producer China Datang Corp. sold 1 billion yuan of three-year
Dim Sum bonds on June 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chinese ratings companies often give higher investment
grades than their international counterparts.  China Shanshui
Cement Group Ltd. (691) ’s Dim Sum bonds due July 2014 were rated BB-by
Standard & Poor’s, while its onshore bonds of the same tenor
were graded AA by Beijing-based Chengxin. BB- is three levels
below investment grade at S&P, while AA is the third-highest
ranking at Chengxin.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  