-- China Approves First Mainland ETFs Tracking Hong Kong Stocks
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-29T20:12:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/china-approves-first-mainland-etfs-tracking-hong-kong-stocks-1-.html
The  China  Securities Regulatory
Commission  approved  the first two mainland-listed exchange-
traded funds to track Hong Kong stock indexes, on the Shanghai
and Shenzhen Chinese bourses, the city’s regulator said.  Hong Kong’s Securities and Futures Commission also said
yesterday that it authorized the listing of a yuan-denominated
A-share ETF on the Hong Kong stock exchange. The ETF under the
 Renminbi  Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor program,which
allows Hong Kong units of Chinese financial companies to raise
 yuan  in the city and invest in China’s capital markets, will
track the performance of an A-share index, it said.  “There will definitely be demand for the Hong Kong ETF,”
said Chen Liqiu, a strategist at Jianghai Securities Co. in
Shanghai. “It will be composed of quality blue chips. While
there’s demand, it may not be overwhelmingly successful. This
ETF will divert some liquidity away from A shares but I don’t
expect the spillover to cause a great impact.”  The announcement came as Chinese President  Hu Jintao  began
a three-day visit to the city yesterday to mark the 15th
anniversary of the Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule. Hong Kong
Exchanges & Clearing Ltd. agreed on June 28 to set up a joint
venture to develop index-linked and equity derivative products
with its mainland Chinese counterparts.  Hang Seng Indexes Co. said yesterday it licensed two ETFs
issued in mainland China. One will be linked to the  Hang Seng
Index (HSI)  and be issued by China Asset Management Co. and listed on
the Shenzhen Stock Exchange. The other, issued by E Fund
Management Co., will be linked to the Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index and listed on the  Shanghai Stock Exchange , the
index compiler said.  August Announcement  Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  first announced in August that
China will start an exchange-traded funds based on Hong Kong
equities, after the government scrapped in January 2010 a plan
to allow Chinese nationals to buy equities directly. The so-
called “through-train” program for direct purchases, unveiled
by regulators in August 2007, had helped push the Hang Seng
Index to a record high in October that year.  “Hong Kong stock ETFs provide an alternative channel for
mainland investors to participate in the Hong Kong securities
market and further strengthen the co-operation between the
mainland and Hong Kong capital markets,” SFC Chairman Eddy Fong
said in yesterday’s statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  