-- Chinese Industrial Companies’ Profits Drop for Second Month
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T01:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/chinese-industrial-companies-profits-drop-for-second-month-1-.html
Chinese industrial companies’
profits fell for a second month in May, a government report
showed today, as slowing economic growth hurt corporate earnings.  Income dropped 5.3 percent from a year earlier to 390.9
billion  yuan  ($61 billion), the  National Bureau of Statistics 
said on its website today. That compares with a 2.2 percent
decline in April and 4.5 percent gain in March.  The deterioration adds to signs that government measures to
stimulate the world’s second-biggest economy have yet to reverse
a slowdown that may deepen for a sixth quarter.  China  may
introduce “more proactive” policies to support growth by
stabilizing foreign trade and expanding infrastructure
investment, the China Securities Journal reported June 27.  “Industrial profits will continue to be under pressure as
the slowdown in the economy is curbing demand and deflation is
further squeezing profits,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist
and strategist with Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said
before the release. “But profits may well recover in the second
half as the economy is revived by monetary and fiscal stimulus
and commodity prices weaken.”  Industrial profits for the first five months declined 2.4
percent from a year earlier to 1.84 trillion yuan, the
statistics bureau said. That compared with a 1.6 percent drop in
the first four months and a 27.9 percent gain in 2011.  Growth Slides  China’s  economy  expanded 8.1 percent in the first quarter
of 2012 from a year earlier, the least in almost three years and
the fifth quarterly deceleration.  Bank of America Corp. estimates growth will slide to around
7.5 percent this quarter while Credit Agricole CIB projects a
drop to as low as 7 percent.  The People’s Bank of China on June 7 announced the first
cut in benchmark  interest rates  since 2008 and has lowered
banks’ reserve-requirement ratios twice this year to spur
lending. New loans in May were a record for that month and
longer-term lending picked up, signaling support for investment
projects that may arrest the economic slowdown.  Industrial companies’ revenue in the first five months
increased 11.9 percent to 34.5 trillion yuan, according to
today’s statistics bureau report. Sales rose 29.4 percent in the
same period last year.  The data cover companies in 41 industries. Starting last
year, the statistics bureau raised the minimum annual sales for
businesses included in the survey to 20 million yuan from 5
million yuan.  Profits in some industries are being dragged down by the
government’s curbs on real-estate development.  China Resources Cement Holdings Ltd. (1313) , the fourth-largest
Hong Kong-listed cement maker by market value, said this week
its first-half net income “significantly decreased” compared
with last year as selling prices fell due to slower growth in
China’s fixed-asset investment. West China Cement Ltd. and Anhui
Conch Cement Co. have also issued profit warnings this month.  China’s cement output rose 5 percent in the first five
months of the year, a slowdown of 14.3 percentage points from
the same period in 2011, the Xinhua News Agency reported last
week, citing data from the  National Development and Reform
Commission .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  