-- China’s Stocks Rise for First Time in 8 Days on Europe Optimism
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T08:01:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-on-economic-concerns.html
China’s stocks  rose for the first
time in eight days on speculation the  European debt crisis  that
has slowed global growth is easing after the region’s leaders
agreed to ease repayment conditions for loans to Spanish banks.  China Life Insurance Co. (601628)  and Citic Securities Co. led gains
for insurers and brokerages on speculation they will benefit
from a plan to develop Shenzhen’s Qianhai zone into a financial
services hub. Kweichow Moutai Co. paced an advance for consumer
staples producers, as Bank of Communications Co. recommended
buying shares of companies whose earnings may be sheltered from
the slowdown.  Europe ’s leaders, meeting for a two-day summit in
Brussels, agreed to drop requirements that governments receive
preferred creditor status on crisis loans to Spain’s banks.  “More fruitful results will come out of the Europe summit
and that’ll help to contain the debt crisis,” said  Li Jun , a
strategist at Central  China  Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Lower
risk premiums are positive for equities.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 1.4 percent to 2,225.43
at the close, snapping a seven-day, 5.2 percent drop. The
measure plunged 6.2 percent in June, making it  Asia ’s worst
performing stock gauge this month. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 1.5
percent to 2,461.61. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, fell
1.5 percent in  New York  yesterday.  The Shanghai index has fallen 9.6 percent from this year’s
peak on March 2 on concern the government isn’t loosening
monetary policy quick enough to stem a slowdown. Stocks in the
measure are valued at 9.72 times estimated earnings, compared
with the average of 17.66 since Bloomberg began compiling the
 data  in 2006.  Europe’s Progress  The 14-day relative strength  measure  for the Shanghai
Composite, measuring how rapidly prices have advanced or dropped
during a specified time period, was at 27.37 yesterday. Readings
below 30 indicate it may be poised to rise. Thirty- day
 volatility  was at 15.36 today, compared with this year’s average
of 18.3. About 5.4 billion shares changed hands in the gauge
yesterday, 37 percent lower than the daily average this year.  After 12 hours of talks in Brussels today, leaders of the
17 euro countries grew closer to solving the immediate crisis,
allowing financial institutions to recapitalize without going
through governments. Europe is China’s biggest export market,
making up about 18 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  A gauge of financial stocks in the CSI 300 surged 2
percent, the second most among the 10 industry groups. China
Life, the nation’s biggest insurer, gained 3.9 percent to 18.30
yuan. Citic Securities, the largest listed brokerage, advanced
4.7 percent to 12.63 yuan.  GF Securities Co. (000776)  climbed 3.9 percent
to 29.83 yuan.  Qianhai Zone  China will make Qianhai, part of the Shenzhen economic
zone, a test ground for freer yuan usage and capital account
convertibility,  Zhang Xiaoqiang , vice chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said at a press conference
today. Companies in Qianhai will be encouraged to sell yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong and to experiment with cross-
border loans in the Chinese currency, Zhang said. The area,
expected to host financial and services companies, was created
by China’s State Council in 2010.  Financial stocks are better valued and insurers’ May income
is improving, Xie Jiyong, analyst at Capital Securities Corp.,
said in a phone interview in Shanghai  A gauge of staples producers in the CSI 300 climbed 1.4
percent. Kweichow Moutai, the largest maker of baijiu liquor,
advanced 1.3 percent to 239.15 yuan.  Wuliangye Yibin Co. (000858) , the
second largest, gained 2.4 percent to 32.76 yuan.  Defensive Mode  Hao Hong, head of Chinese research at Bank of
Communications Co. in  Hong Kong , recommended investors buy
“defensive” companies such as consumer staples producers and
avoid “cyclical” companies.  China’s stocks  are poised to extend losses after erasing
this year’s gains amid concerns over a slowing economy,
according to Hong, the only strategist who forecast declines for
Chinese shares in 2012.  China will fine-tune its economic policies in a “timely
and appropriate” manner, People’s Bank of China Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said today.  The government will maintain a prudent monetary policy and
proactive fiscal policy, Zhou said at a forum in Shanghai,
reiterating the stance set out by Premier  Wen Jiabao  in his
annual work report to the nation’s legislature in March.  Industrial Profits  Stocks fell earlier after the statistics bureau said
Chinese industrial companies’ profits declined for a second
month in May. Income dropped 5.3 percent from a year earlier to
390.9 billion  yuan  ($61 billion), the National Bureau of
Statistics said on its website. That compares with a 2.2 percent
decline in April and 4.5 percent gain in March.  “Industrial profits will continue to be under pressure as
the slowdown in the economy is curbing demand and deflation is
further squeezing profits,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, senior economist
and strategist with Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong, said
before the release.  Energy and material producers were the worst-performing
industry groups in the CSI 300 this month, losing more than 11
percent on concern China’s slowdown will curb demand for
commodities.  Shanxi Lu’an Environmental Energy Development Co. (601699) , a coal
producer, slid 24 percent in June. Chinese demand for coal, the
fuel for three-quarters of the nation’s power plants, has
faltered as an economic slowdown slows electricity consumption.
China’s power-station coal prices are “in free fall” amid
weakening domestic demand and a glut of imports, Mirae Asset
Securities Hong Kong Ltd. said in report June 27.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index compiled by the statistics
bureau and logistics federation may drop to 49.9 this month,
falling below the dividing line of 50 for expansion and
contraction, according to the median estimate of 19 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The figure is due July 1.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  