-- China to Test Capital Account Conversion in Qianhai Zone
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n   a n d   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-06-29T08:07:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/china-to-trial-capital-account-conversion-in-qianhai-zone-2-.html
China will make Qianhai, part of the
Shenzhen economic zone, a test ground for freer yuan usage and
capital account convertibility, the National Development and
Reform Commission said today.  Companies in Qianhai will be encouraged to sell yuan-
denominated bonds in Hong Kong and to experiment with cross-
border loans in the Chinese currency,  Zhang Xiaoqiang , the vice
chairman of the national planner, said at a press conference in
the city today.  Qianhai is a 15-square kilometer special zone on the west
side of Shenzhen,  Guangdong province , that officials are seeking
to develop into a financial service hub. The world’s second-
biggest economy widened the yuan trading band for the first time
since 2007 in April, a move that may mark an early stage of a
capital account opening.  “It lacks many details and seems to be a small-scale move,
but highlights the determination of Chinese policy makers to
open the capital account,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Credit Agricole CIB, wrote in a note today. “We
expect convertibility within five to 10 years, but the new zone
means it may happen sooner rather than later.”  Chinese officials told European Union business executives
that the  yuan  will achieve “full convertibility” by 2015, EU
Chamber of Commerce in China President Davide Cucino said last
September.  Yuan Products  The moves “will facilitate further liberalization of the
 renminbi , which will benefit both Hong Kong and the mainland,”
said Timothy Tse, chief executive officer of Value Partners
Group Ltd. “For the asset management industry in particular,
this opens up the possibilities of offering more renminbi
investment products.”  There are 21 companies registered and 170 projects ready to
start in the special zone, Xu Qin, mayor of Shenzhen, said
today. The government aims for 150 billion yuan ($23.6 billion)
worth of gross domestic product by 2020 in Qianhai, NDRC said.  The area, expected to host financial and services
companies, was created by  China ’s State Council in 2010 and has
laws that model Hong Kong-style administrative structures.  “Qianhai should pioneer capital account convertibility,”
Zhang said, without giving details. The government also wants to
encourage companies to set up headquarters, and investment funds
to establish operations in Qianhai, he said.  Investment Rules  The government will ease entry rules for Hong Kong
companies, and offer 15 percent  corporate income tax  to some
firms, encouraging the city’s services sector to operate in
Qianhai, Zhang said.  “Companies could kick start their operations in Qianhai
with funding from Dim Sum bond sales,” said Kelvin Lau, an
economist at Standard Chartered Plc. in Hong Kong. The measures
will also help give Hong Kong companies “the first-mover
advantage.”  Hong Kong was designated as China’s major offshore yuan
trading hub in the nation’s latest five-year plan. The city has
552 billion yuan of  deposits  in the currency in April, the
largest outside China.  Closer Ties  The city today also signed a supplementary agreement for
closer ties. China will study lowering the requirement for Hong
Kong financial institutions to apply for qualified foreign
institutional investor status.  The Chinese government will support mainland companies’
listing in Hong Kong, and help smaller ones raise capital
through selling shares overseas, it said. China will also look
at ways to increase co-operation on commodity futures and
promote the establishment of a futures market system, it said.  China also wants to attract talented people from Hong Kong
and overseas to work in Qianhai, Zhang said, adding there will
be concessions on personal income tax for workers in the zone.  Service providers from  Hong Kong  will be allowed to build
international schools and hospitals without the need to seek a
partner, NDRC said. Telecommunications operators in Hong Kong
and Macau are encouraged to start joint ventures in Qianhai,
Zhang said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net ;
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  