-- Christie Signs $31.7 Billion N.J. Budget After Vetoes
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-29T22:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/christie-signs-31-7-billion-new-jersey-budget-with-vetoes-1-.html
Governor  Chris Christie  erased $361
million in Democratic spending initiatives before signing a
$31.7 billion  New Jersey  budget for fiscal 2013.  The first-term Republican vetoed what he described as
measures that “represented a step backward” by Democrats, in a
statement sent from his office today. The budget includes $347
million in business tax relief and $1.03 billion for state
pensions, according to the statement.  “The budget I am signing today reverses irresponsible
funding decisions, establishes funding levels based on realistic
and responsible revenue assumptions, and increases our surplus
to a healthy level that paves the way for continued economic
growth,” Christie said in a statement.  Funds to back the Democrats’ proposed $361 million in
spending will be put into surplus as a result of Christie’s use
of his line-item veto power. That will increase the reserve
account to more than $600 million, according to the governor’s
office. Whether Democrats who control the Legislature will seek
to override the governor hasn’t been decided, according to
Assembly Majority Leader Lou Greenwald, of  Cherry Hill .  ‘Wishful Thinking’  “I hope he’s right and that the money can go to property
taxes, but we just lost 1,000 jobs this week, unemployment is at
9.2 percent and he’s counting on growth that is double any other
state,” Greenwald said in an interview before Christie’s budget
action. “It’s wishful thinking -- he’s wishing his way out of
this rather than looking at the facts.”  Christie, 49, had prodded lawmakers to use $183 million for
the first phase of his proposed 10 percent income-tax cut in the
budget for the year that starts July 1. Democrats countered with
a plan to provide property-levy relief instead.  Christie relented, then labeled his political opponents
“liars” after the spending plan that passed the Legislature
without a single Republican vote put off the cuts and made them
subject to revenue conditions. He pledged a campaign in the next
few months “to kick their rear ends all over the state this
summer” on the issue.  “The governor’s insistence on tax cuts now, before we know
if we can truly afford them and six months before they would
even take effect, is a platform built on national campaign
rhetoric rather than fiscal reality,” Senator  Paul Sarlo , a
Democrat from Wood-Ridge who leads the chamber’s budget panel,
said in a statement.  The plan Christie signed also provides $8.87 billion for
aid to public schools and $2.05 billion for state colleges and
universities, according to the governor’s office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net ;
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  