-- Churches Can Use N.Y. Schools for Worship, Judge Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-06-29T20:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/churches-can-use-n-y-schools-for-worship-judge-says.html
New York  can’t refuse to allow
religious groups to use city public schools for worship
services, a federal judge ruled in a lawsuit brought by a Bronx
church.  The dispute dates to 1995, when the Bronx Household of
Faith sued the city for allegedly violating the U.S.
Constitution’s First Amendment by denying it use of a school
while giving other community groups access to campuses for their
activities.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Manhattan  in February denied
the city’s bid for a preliminary injunction which would have
allowed it to enforce a ban on worship in public school
facilities. The appellate court sent the case back to U.S.
District Judge Loretta Preska, who had temporarily given the
church permission to keep meeting at the school.  Preska today made that permission permanent, saying the
regulation that allows community groups to use public schools
for activities outside normal school hours, while banning their
use for religious services, violates the clauses of the First
Amendment concerning religion.  “We strongly disagree with the district court’s view of
the facts -- including its finding that the high rents in  New
York City  require the government to provide religious
organizations government-subsidized space for purposes of
worship,” Jonathan Pines, deputy chief of the general
litigation division of New York’s law department, said in a
statement.  He said the city plans to appeal the decision immediately.  New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  is the founder and
majority owner of Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News.  The case is Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of Education
of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  