-- Citigroup Moves Trader Putcha to Help Internal Hedge Fund
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-06-29T16:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/citigroup-moves-trader-putcha-to-help-internal-hedge-fund.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  has moved Ramakrishna Putcha, a former proprietary trader, into an internal hedge fund
that makes bets with about $200 million of the firm’s money
after the portfolio slid 14 percent last year.  Putcha, 61, was named co-portfolio manager of a credit fund
in the  Citi Capital Advisors  unit, or CCA, according to Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based lender. For
now, Citigroup owns about 97 percent of the fund and bank
employees own the rest, according to a person with direct
knowledge of the operation.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , a colleague of
Putcha’s for almost three decades, is among Wall Street bosses
grappling with the new Volcker rule, which is designed to
restrict banks from gambling with shareholders’ money through
hedge funds and the proprietary trades that were Putcha’s
specialty. The bank has disclosed plans to withdraw cash from
hedge funds and replace it with assets from outside investors.  “If they can improve performance, they may be able to
avoid a loss and perhaps realize a return as they attract money
from third-party investors,” said  Charles Whitehead , a
professor at Cornell Law School in Ithaca,  New York . “Better to
go ahead and hope for the performance to turn around than close
it down and take the loss now.”  Whitehead, who published a  paper  last year about the
Volcker rule’s impact, was a Citigroup executive until 2004 and
has no personal knowledge of the company’s hedge-fund strategy.  Fund Rebounds  Putcha’s presence may boost returns at the Strategic Credit
Fund, which lost 14 percent last year, people who were invited
to invest said in February. Credit funds  gained  0.6 percent on
average in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There is a risk in backing the fund, since it may
continue to perform poorly,” Whitehead said in an e-mail. “But
over time, continued support may yield higher returns.”  The fund is outperforming peers so far this year, returning
about 6 percent through the end of May, according to the person,
who asked for anonymity because the results are not public.
Credit funds  climbed  4 percent for the same period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “This fellow is one of those unique baseball players who
constantly gets singles and doubles -- he’s not hitting a home
run and then striking out,” said Bradley Hintz, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and a former Morgan Stanley
treasurer. “This is certainly one of the names I would like to
keep if I were Vikram.”  Derivative Trades  Putcha is working with Fred Hoffman, 47, who oversees a
group of Citigroup  credit funds , according to the bank. The
Strategic Credit fund trades in riskier bonds and collateralized
loan obligations, or CLOs, the person said. CLOs are derivatives
that pool high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into
securities of varying risk and return.  Former Morgan Stanley executives Jonathan Dorfman and  James O’Brien  oversee CCA, which manages about $18.6 billion overall,
including money for clients. About $5 billion of this is
shareholders’ cash, according to another person familiar with
the matter, who requested anonymity because the data is
confidential.  Citigroup does not disclose whether the CCA division makes
a profit. CCA’s hedge funds invest in assets including subprime
mortgages to people with weak credit, leveraged loans and high-
yield European bonds and distressed debt, according to the
bank’s  website . The unit also operates venture-capital and
private-equity funds.  Management Stakes  Regulators are pushing banks to cut riskier trades as they
draft the Volcker rule, named after former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker . The proposed rule would bar banks from
owning more than 3 percent of hedge funds and private-equity
funds and from investing more than 3 percent of  Tier 1 capital 
in the funds. The Volcker rule is not yet in effect.  The bank will let managers of its hedge funds acquire part
of the business in advance of the Volcker rule’s proposed
restrictions, Citigroup Chief Operating Officer  John Havens  said
in February. This stake will increase as the lender takes out
its own cash, Havens said.  The Volcker rule also would ban banks’ trading desks from
buying and selling stocks and bonds for their own benefit, known
as proprietary trading. Putcha worked for the Principal
Strategies team, Citigroup’s proprietary-trading unit, until the
bank shuttered the desk earlier this year, citing “regulatory
initiatives and changes.” The team was partly responsible for
equities-trading revenue plunging by $1.3 billion in 2011,
Citigroup said.  Putcha and Pandit  Most of Putcha’s colleagues were expected to leave the
company, according to the memo. Sutesh Sharma, the London-based
head of the unit, intends to start a hedge fund, people familiar
with the plan said last August.  Putcha’s career has followed Pandit’s for almost three
decades. The two are originally from  India  -- Putcha from
Hyderabad, Pandit from Nagpur -- and they joined New York-based
Morgan Stanley within two years of each other in the 1980s.
Putcha became a managing director, using the firm’s money to buy
and sell bonds, while Pandit rose to head of sales, trading and
 investment banking .  Pandit, 55, quit Morgan Stanley in 2005 after a dispute
with then-CEO  Philip Purcell . He founded a hedge fund called Old
Lane Partners LP and lured Putcha and other Morgan Stanley
traders to the firm. Citigroup bought Old Lane in 2007 for $800
million, in a deal that returned about $165 million to Pandit
and led to him becoming CEO. The bank shut Old Lane soon after
Pandit became CEO, taking a $202 million writedown.  The Old Lane traders moved into different parts of the
bank. Putcha is now among former colleagues Mukesh Patel, Kevin Bespolka and Manu Rana, who help to run CCA hedge funds as they
wait for regulators to complete the Volcker rule.  “He’s a really good prop trader,” said Hintz, who worked
with Putcha at  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  “Why would you want him? Because
he’s able to generate stable returns. Can you keep him? That’s a
different issue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  