-- Clinton Endorses Russian Civic Activists Before Syria Talks
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   A n a t o l y   T e m k i n
-- 2012-06-29T16:32:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/clinton-endorses-russian-civic-activists-before-syria-talks-1-.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  met Russian civic activists in St. Petersburg, where she
will discuss  Syria  with Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  before a
conference on the Middle Eastern nation tomorrow.  Clinton, who is in  Russia ’s second-biggest city to head a
U.S. delegation to the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation’s Women
and the Economy Forum, met 13 activists who campaign for causes
including election transparency and gay rights, according to
Natalia Yevdokimova, secretary of St. Petersburg’s human-rights
council, who spoke by phone after attending the gathering.  “We are not naive about the very real challenges you face,
but we believe the work you are doing is absolutely critical,”
Clinton said today in the U.S. consul-general’s residence, where
the meeting was held. She praised the activists for striving
“to make Russia a better place for future generations.”  Russian officials have criticized U.S. and European support
for civil-society groups as protests continue on the streets of
Moscow and other Russian cities against President  Vladimir Putin . The ruling United Russia party said today it would
propose a law under which all non-governmental organizations
that receive financial aid from abroad would be classified as
“foreign agents.”  Clinton will discuss the situation in Syria with Lavrov
later today before both fly to Geneva for a meeting tomorrow
morning on a political-transition plan proposed by United
Nations envoy  Kofi Annan .  No Agreement  The plan is the latest attempt to end the violence in the
Middle Eastern nation, where the UN estimates more than 10,000
people have died since the government began a crackdown against
protesters last March. An Annan-brokered cease-fire between the
military and armed opposition has failed to halt the violence.  Lavrov said yesterday there’s no agreement on the fate of
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad, calling press reports that
Russia had agreed he must go an “unscrupulous approach to
diplomacy.”  At the APEC conference, Clinton stressed the need for
international efforts to expand business opportunities for
women.  “Women now represent 40 percent of the global  labor force ,
43 percent of the agricultural workforce and more than half of
the world’s university students,” she said. “Limiting women’s
economic potential is like leaving money on the table.  It just
don’t make sense, especially at a time when the global economy
continues to struggle.”  Women Entrepreneurs  “In  Japan , raising the 60 percent employment rate among
women to match the 80 percent rate among men would add more than
8 million workers and increase GDP as much as 15 percent,” she
said.   Clinton said women-owned small businesses in East Asian
nations such as Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and  Vietnam  are
“growing at a faster rate than those owned by men.”  The U.S. will work with the UN International Trade Center
to expand the ability of Asia-Pacific governments to make
purchases from women-owned businesses and take steps to help
build the capacity of women entrepreneurs in the region, Clinton
said.  Also, she said, “we are joining with expert partners to
train central and commercial banks throughout the Asia-Pacific
in inclusive lending practices. This will institutionalize
women’s ability to access finance and capital and generate
economic gains.”   To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  St. Petersburg  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Anatoly Temkin in St. Petersburg at 
 atemkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  