-- Colombia Peso Rises to Week High as European Plan Boosts Demand
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-29T20:13:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/colombia-peso-rises-to-week-high-as-european-plan-boosts-demand.html
Colombia ’s peso advanced to the
highest level in a week after European Union leaders took a step
toward resolving the region’s debt crisis, buoying demand for
emerging-market assets.  The peso gained 1.3 percent to 1,783.76 per dollar after
touching 1,780.95, the strongest level since June 22. It  gained
0.3 percent this quarter and has rallied 8.7 percent this year,
the best performance among world currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  “The EU summit is driving strong gains in markets today,”
Julian Marquez, an analyst in Bogota at Interbolsa SA,
Colombia’s largest brokerage, said by phone. “The market is
very optimistic today. Makes you wonder if it will last.”  Colombia’s central bank left the overnight lending rate at
a three-year high of 5.25 percent today, matching the forecast
of all 33 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The announcement
came after markets closed.  The decision wasn’t unanimous, central bank chief Jose
Dario Uribe told reporters in Bogota after the meeting.  “The central bank reached a neutral rate where it allows
the economy to grow at a stable pace,” said  Ricardo Bernal , the
head analyst at Serfinco SA brokerage in Bogota. “The bank
already was expecting a deceleration in  Europe , so as long
things don’t get much worse we’ll see rates on hold at least
through the third quarter.”  Dollar Purchases  President  Juan Manuel Santos  told coffee growers in
Medellin on June 27 that he asked policy makers to buy more
dollars in the  currency market  to weaken the peso toward 2,000
against the U.S. currency.  Reiterating plans to buy a minimum of $20 million daily in
the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2, Uribe said today the
central bank would like a more devalued peso.  Leaders of the 17 euro countries dropped requirements that
taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s banks
and opened the way to recapitalize lenders directly. Talks ended
at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels today.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 7.01 percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  