-- Colombia Keeps 5.25% Rate for Fourth Month as Economy Slows
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-29T20:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/colombia-keeps-5-25-rate-for-fourth-month-as-economy-slows.html
Colombia ’s central bank kept
borrowing costs unchanged for a fourth straight month as growth
cools and prices for it commodities exports drop.  The seven-member board, led by bank chief Jose Dario Uribe,
voted to keep the  overnight lending rate  at a three-year high of
5.25 percent today, matching the forecast of all 33 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Uribe said the vote wasn’t unanimous.  “They left the door open to future cuts, but it will
mainly depend on the situation in  Europe ,” said Daniel Velandia, the head analyst at Correva brokerage in Bogota.
“Whether the economy decelerates more or not will depend on the
external environment.” That vote wasn’t unanimous wasn’t a
surprise, as board member Carlos Gustavo Cano had spoken out
earlier this month on the need for lower rates, Velandia said.  Banco de la Republica last year flouted a trend for lower
rates as surging credit growth and record investment in its oil
and mining industries helped spur the fastest  economic growth 
since 2007. Since the start of 2011, the bank raised nine times
to cool growth even as other  emerging markets  reduced rates in
response to Europe’s worsening debt crisis.  Economic “growth in the first quarter was near the lower
limit of the range forecast by the bank’s technical team,”
policy makers said in their statement. While noting that
commercial lending “continues to slow” as has the growth of
household credit, board members underscored that the expansion
of  consumer credit  “is still high.”  ‘If Needed’  If household consumption remains weak, and gross domestic
product is sluggish in the second quarter, the central bank will
cut rates in September or October, Juan Camilo Santana, an
analyst at Cia. de Profesionales de Bolsa, said.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry, who forms part of
the central bank’s policy committee, told reporters in Bogota
this week that Colombia will cut rates this year “if needed,”
and that this will depend on the international scenario. The
last time the central bank lowered borrowing costs was in April
2010.  The central bank raised  interest rates  by 2.25 percentage
points between February 2011 and February 2012. Colombia now has
higher borrowing costs than Chile, Peru and  Mexico , though lower
than the 8.5 percent benchmark rate in  Brazil .  Retail sales slumped 2.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, a worse result than all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, whose median estimate was for a 4.1
percent increase.  ‘Evidence’  Industrial output also fell unexpectedly, while urban
unemployment rose and building permits fell 29.7 percent from a
year earlier. The statistics agency reported today that urban
joblessness rose to 11.9 percent in May from 11.4 percent in
April.  With some members of the central bank’s board still worried
about the pace of credit growth it will be difficult for policy
makers to reach an agreement that rate cuts are needed unless
growth slows even more, said  Francisco Rodriguez , a  New York- 
based economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Credit
expanded 19.4 percent in April from a year earlier.  “We don’t see evidence that deceleration has reached the
point that would lead the bank to say yes this is getting
serious enough for us to cut,” Rodriguez said in a telephone
interview before the rate decision.  Colombia’s economy grew 4.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, its slowest pace since 2010, as the world’s
biggest currency rally this year hurt farmers and manufacturers,
while spending on public works slumped.  Peso, Oil  The peso has strengthened 8.7 percent to 1,783.76 per
dollar this year, the biggest gain of 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. President  Juan Manuel Santos  told coffee growers in
Medellin this week that he wants the central bank to take “more
aggressive” action to weaken the peso.  The central bank wants a more devalued exchange rate, Uribe
said today. Additionally, the daily purchases of at least $20
million will continue until Nov. 2, Uribe said, adding that the
central bank has tools to supply liquidity to the foreign
exchange market.  Santos said the country could increase its international
foreign currency reserves by about $8 billion to $10 billion.
Colombia had reserves of $34 billion in April.  Annual inflation slowed to 3.44 percent in May, the second-
lowest rate after Chile of 13 Latin American economies tracked
by Bloomberg, from 3.73 percent at the start of the year.  The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Oil exports rose 70 percent to $28 billion dollars last
year, while exports of coal rose 40 percent to $8.4 billion. Oil
accounted for 49 percent of the country’s sales abroad last
year. The price of crude has slumped 14 percent this year.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent peso-
denominated bond due in July 2024 rose one basis point to 7.01
percent, according to the central bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  