-- Commodities Surge Most in Three Weeks, Trimming Quarterly Slump
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-06-29T06:54:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/commodities-climb-after-europe-drops-conditions-on-spanish-loans.html
Commodities jumped the most in three
weeks after European leaders agreed to ease repayment rules for
emergency loans to Spanish banks and relax conditions on
possible help for  Italy , increasing optimism that the region’s
debt crisis may be contained.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD)  of 24 raw materials
soared as much as 1.8 percent to 577.49 points, the biggest gain
since June 6, before trading at 576.33 at 2:47 p.m. in
Singapore. Crude oil jumped as much as 2.9 percent in New York
and copper rose 2.1 percent. The increase in the gauge trimmed
its quarterly loss to 16 percent, still the worst since the
final three months of 2008.  After 12 hours of talks ending at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
today, leaders of the 17 euro countries dropped the requirement
that governments get preferred creditor status on crisis loans
to Spain’s blighted banks, European Union President  Herman Van
Rompuy  said. Banks can also be recapitalized directly with funds
rather than going through governments, he said.  “The fundamental problem in  Europe  is still out there, but
the decision that came out today gave some comfort and
confidence to the markets.” Alexandra Knight, an analyst at
 National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) , said by phone from  Melbourne .  European leaders also discussed ways to reduce the risk
premiums on Italian and Spanish bonds, which have driven concern
by economists, investors and Europe’s global partners including
the U.S. that the currency union risks coming apart.  Quarterly Slump  The commodities gauge plunged 44 percent in the final
quarter of 2008 when the bursting ofthe U.S. real-estate bubble
and collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. pitched the world
into a recession.  Raw materials  entered a bear-market last
week as Europe’s crisis escalated and concern mounted that the
U.S. recovery was faltering.  Losses in the quarter have been led by cotton, crude oil
and gasoline, with the decline in the S&P GSCI exceeding the 8.4
percent fall in the MSCI All-Country world Index of equities.
Raw materials have also been hurt by signs of slower growth in
 China , the world’s largest user of base metals.  “We expect increasing risks in the global economy in the
second half,” said Lynette Tan, an analyst at Singapore-based
Phillip Futures Pte Ltd. “The U.S. and China are still not
doing well and the debt problems in Europe look set to worsen.”  West Texas Intermediate crude futures rose as high as
$79.95 a barrel before trading 2.6 percent higher at $79.70 on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Three-month copper gained to
$7,538.50 a ton before trading at $7,530.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  