-- Commodities Up Most in Six Months on Europe Optimism
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-06-29T21:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/commodities-up-most-in-six-months-on-europe-optimism.html
Commodities jumped the most in 39
months on optimism that  Europe ’s debt crisis may be contained
after leaders agreed to ease repayment rules for emergency loans
to Spanish banks and relax conditions on help for  Italy .  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot  Index (MXWD)  of 24 raw materials
rose 5.6 percent to 599.44, the  biggest gain  since April 2,
2009. The increase trimmed the quarterly loss to 13 percent,
still the worst since the final three months of 2008. Crude oil
jumped 9.4 percent, reducing its quarterly drop to 18 percent.  After 12 hours of talks that ended at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
today, leaders of the 17 euro countries dropped the requirement
that governments get preferred creditor status on crisis loans
to Spain’s blighted banks, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said. Banks can also be recapitalized directly with funds
rather than going through governments, he said.  “We had a spark out of Europe that caused the fire to blow
up,” said James Dailey, who manages $215 million at TEAM
Financial Asset Management LLC in Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania .
“It’s the response to the news out of Europe combined with what
had become deeply oversold conditions, specifically in crude
oil, which basically fell off a cliff in the last couple of
months.”  West Texas Intermediate crude futures for August delivery
advanced $7.27 to $84.96 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Brent crude oil also rose in  London .  Risk Premiums  European leaders discussed ways to reduce the risk premiums
on Italian and Spanish bonds, which have driven concern by
economists, investors and Europe’s global partners, including
the U.S., that the currency union risks coming apart.  The euro rose 1.7 percent to $1.2655 at 4:40 p.m., the
biggest gain since Oct. 27. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
climbed 2.5 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
increased 2.2 percent.  “Investor sentiment improved on news from the EU summit
and many commodity prices rebounded,” Anton Zakharov, a
commodity analyst at OAO Promsvyazbank in Moscow, said today in
an e-mail.  The commodities gauge plunged 44 percent in the final
quarter of 2008, when the bursting of the U.S. real-estate
bubble and the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. pitched
the world into a recession. Raw materials entered a bear-market
last week as Europe’s crisis escalated and concern mounted that
the U.S. recovery was faltering.  Gold futures for August delivery climbed 3.5 percent to
settle at $1,604.20 on the Comex in New York, the biggest gain
since June 1. The metal has advanced 2.6 percent in June, the
first monthly gain since January.  Copper Market  Copper for September delivery climbed 5 percent to settle
at $3.4965 a pound on the Comex. The increase was the biggest
since Nov. 30. Prices added 5.5 percent this week, the biggest
such gain since January. For the quarter, prices were down 8.6
percent.  Losses in the quarter have been led by coffee, cotton and
oil, with the 13 percent decline in the S&P GSCI exceeding the
6.4 percent drop in the MSCI All-Country world Index of
equities.  Raw materials  have also been hurt by signs of slower
growth in  China , the world’s largest user of base metals.  “The key issue is the uncertainty as to what’s going to
happen in Europe, and that continues to unnerve and unsettle a
lot of consumers,” said Jeremy Baker, who manages the $800
million Vontobel Belvista Commodity Fund in Zurich. “There are
some very attractive commodities out there in terms of absolute
prices, but we need to see some concrete steps from the European
Union for the commodities to trend higher.”  Iran Sanctions  EU sanctions on  Iran  will enter into full force on July 1
after exemptions on some contracts and insurance end,
potentially boosting crude prices as well as adding pressure on
the Persian Gulf nation to halt its nuclear-enrichment program.  Norwegian oil and gas unions decided after a meeting today
that they will maintain their strike at the existing level, Leif
Sande, president of Industry Energy, the biggest of the three
unions, said from Stavanger,  Norway . The labor action is
currently halting about 250,000 barrels of oil a day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net 
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  