-- Congress Extends 3.4% Interest Rate on Some Student Loans
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-06-29T18:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/congress-extends-3-4-interest-rate-on-some-student-loans.html
U.S. House and Senate lawmakers
voted to extend for a year the 3.4 percent  interest rate  for
some federal  student loans , two days before the rate would have
doubled to 6.8 percent.  The measure, adopted as part of a transportation-spending
bill, applies to subsidized Stafford federal loans, which are
available to undergraduates, whose families demonstrate
financial need.  Congress has been sparring over how to keep rates low as
graduates struggle to find jobs in a sluggish economy and keep
up with payments on their loans. Outstanding educational debt
reached $1 trillion earlier this year, according to the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. President  Barack Obama  has been
pressuring lawmakers to extend the subsidized rate.  There are two types of  Stafford loans  for undergraduates.
With subsidized loans, the government pays the interest while
the student is in school and for a six-month grace period after
graduation. There is no income requirement for unsubsidized
loans, where students pay interest during college or else it
accrues. The unsubsidized rate is 6.8 percent.  A subsidized rate increase would have affected more than
7.4 million students, who would accrue $1,000 more in debt for
every year the rates aren’t amended, according to an April 23
White House press release.  The legislation amends the 1965 Higher Education Act. The
rate for unsubsidized loans was 6.8 percent from July 1, 2006,
through July 1, 2008, and has decreased since then. The 3.4
percent rate has been in place since July 1, 2011.  The subsidized loan rate would now be scheduled to double
on July 1, 2013.  While holding the rate at 3.4 percent fixes the “urgent
crisis now,” there is still a need for a long-term solution,
Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television before the vote.  “As soon as we get this done, let’s start the next day,”
Duncan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  