-- Constellation Brands Doubles Down on Corona in Move Beyond Wine
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/constellation-rises-after-buying-out-corona-distribution-1-.html
Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ) , the
world’s largest wine seller, is doubling down on Corona as it
looks to widen its lead as the top U.S. beer importer.  The $1.85 billion agreement to buy the other half of its
Crown Imports joint venture with  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)  gives
Constellation more control over the best-selling import beer in
the U.S. The perpetual contract also gives the winemaker
confidence to invest more heavily in beer, according to Chief
Executive Officer Rob Sands.  Owning all of Crown will diversify Constellation’s sales,
boost profit and give it room to take on other import beers,
said Kaumil Gajrawala, a New York-based analyst for UBS AG. The
company had faced losing Modelo’s brands -- which include Modelo
Especial, Victoria and Pacifico -- in 2016.  “We believe this deal is a game-changer,” Gajrawala said
yesterday in a note in which he recommended buying the shares.
Crown “gives the company a more significant foothold in the
U.S. beer market.”  Constellation climbed 24 percent to $27.06 yesterday in New
York, the largest gain since July 1986. The Victor,  New York- 
based company’s  shares  have risen 31 percent this year.  Constellation’s pending purchase of the Crown stake is tied
to  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) ’s decision to acquire the rest of
Modelo for about $20.1 billion. Constellation will become the
sole U.S. importer of Modelo’s brands. The deal also gives Crown
more flexibility to import other non-Mexican brands. The company
sells Chinese Tsingtao in the U.S. now.  Brand Momentum  “Everybody was interested in making sure the momentum
behind these brands and this portfolio remains intact,” Sands
said yesterday in an interview.  Grupo Modelo  first imported Corona into the U.S. in 1979,
more than 50 years after it was founded in  Mexico . The beer,
often served with a wedge of lime, was popular enough in the
mid-1980s that a black market emerged in cities such as  New York 
and Denver, according to the company.  Sales of Corona, the sixth-largest beer brand in the U.S.,
fell in the downturn as consumers traded down to cheaper brews.
Crown has managed to stop the slide by keeping prices stable and
refreshing the “find your beach” advertising campaign that has
been Corona’s mainstay for a decade. The new iterations show
suited office workers and frequent fliers morphing in and out of
relaxed beach scenes as they sip from frosty, longneck Corona
bottles.  Rising Sales  Sales grew 9.3 percent and Crown boosted its dollar market
share by 0.2 percentage points in the year ended May 13.  AB InBev will retain ownership of Crown’s Mexican brands
and will act as the supplier. The Leuven, Belgium-based brewer
will have no control or influence over pricing, marketing or
distribution, Sands said. Discussions began several weeks ago
and the only option considered was a buyout of Crown by
Constellation, he also said.  Crown will run independently of Constellation brands with
the same management, marketing and sales teams, said Sands,
adding, “We expect basically no changes whatsoever.”  Sands declined to say whether Crown would raise Corona
prices after the deal closes early next year.  “We’re going to do what commercially makes the most sense
for Crown and the brands,” Sands said. “We are entirely
comfortable investing behind Crown to ensure it remains the No.
1 competitor in the marketplace, especially for imports.”  The agreement for the Modelo brands is perpetual and allows
AB InBev to buy them back back in 10 years at 13 times earnings
before interest and taxes.  Huge Positive  “This is a huge positive for STZ, as it will be the sole
importer of the fastest growing imported beer,”  Tim Ramey , an
analyst for D.A. Davidson & Co., said in a note. He estimated
the deal will add about 25 cents to per-share earnings in fiscal
2014.  The deal “gives Constellation better certainty concerning
the future of the Crown business,” Linda Montag, senior vice
president of the corporate finance group at Moody’s Investors
Service, said in a note. Moody’s affirmed Constellation’s Ba1
rating, one rung below the lowest investment grade.  Separately, Constellation said yesterday in a statement
that it would purchase the Mark West wine brand for about $160
million. The maker of California pinot noir sells almost 600,000
cases a year, Constellation said.  The company also said first-quarter earnings, excluding
some items, were 40 cents a share, compared with the 39-cent
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Constellation reiterated fiscal 2013 earnings per share would be
$1.93 to $2.03. Analysts estimated $2.01.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  