-- Constellation Said to Be Key to Cementing AB InBev Deal
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r ,   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/constellation-said-to-be-key-to-cementing-ab-inbev-deal.html
Anheuser-Busch InBev AB (ABI) ’s $20.1
billion deal for control of Corona beer brewer  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) 
hinged on a different beverage maker entirely: wine producer
 Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)   The brewers, getting closer to an agreement after years of
legal squabbling, asked Constellation less than a month ago
whether it would buy out the rest of a distribution venture with
Modelo, said people familiar with the discussions who asked not
to be identified as talks were private. They reasoned that
letting go of the venture would make their transaction more
palatable to U.S. regulators, the people said.  That paved the way for Constellation’s $1.85 billion buyout
yesterday, giving the world’s largest wine maker sole U.S.
distribution of Corona Extra, the top-selling beer import in the
country. AB InBev and  Mexico  City-based Modelo were motivated to
be flexible with Constellation and cut a deal quickly to get the
larger transaction completed, said two of these people.  The discussions with Constellation began several weeks ago,
said Chief Executive Officer Rob Sands. The negotiation centered
on one scenario: A buyout of the Crown Imports LLC joint venture
by Constellation.  “There was never any discussion or thought to my knowledge
about them buying out our side,” Sands said in an interview.
“This is clearly a structure that is the most positive from the
antitrust perspective.”  Constellation shareholders benefited too. The Victor, New
York-based company’s shares jumped 24 percent to a five-year
high of $27.06 at the close yesterday, the biggest percentage
gain in at least 26 years.  Antitrust Concerns  AB InBev, which controls 18 percent of the global beer
market, and Modelo actively sought advice on the potential
antitrust ramifications ahead of a deal to avoid fallout,
according to people with knowledge of the matter. In most
transactions with antitrust risk, companies wait until after the
deal is announced to explore asset sales or divestitures aimed
at appeasing regulators.  The beermakers wanted to avoid antitrust doubt given the
size of the transaction, the amount of money being borrowed and
the board members who agreed to step down following the
announcement, said the people.  AB InBev’s managers have experience judging antitrust
concerns. In InBev NV’s $52 billion takeover of Budweiser maker
Anheuser Busch Cos. in 2008, the largest brewing deal in
history, the new entity had to sell Labatt’s operations in the
U.S. to soothe regulators.  Steve Lipin, a spokesman for AB InBev, didn’t respond to a
call and an e-mail seeking comment.  ‘Better Communication’  AB InBev, based in Leuven,  Belgium , and Modelo, Mexico’s
largest brewer, have been in sporadic talks for more than a year
on a combination, people said. Modelo’s controlling board
members became more open to a combination after the Mexican
brewer lost an arbitration bid to deny board seats to some AB
InBev directors in July 2010, according to the people.  Discussions became more urgent at the beginning of the
year, leading to meetings between the main shareholders of both
companies in New York and Mexico City.  “A better communication developed between our executive
teams and our boards, which we hadn’t been able to do before,”
Modelo Chief Executive Officer Carlos Fernandez, a member of one
of the families that control Modelo, said yesterday. “The
relationship grew.”  Members of Modelo’s management team also viewed a deal more
positively after a possible bid for Foster’s Group was rejected
by some members of the group of controlling shareholders,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Modelo had
mulled a bid for the Australian brewer, later taken over by
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  for about A$10 billion ($10.2 billion), a person
with knowledge of the matter said in June last year.  All Cash  Fernandez yesterday declined to comment on Foster’s, saying
the board was “always analyzing different options.”  Modelo Vice Chairman Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala and Vice
President Valentin Diez Morodo, lent their support to the AB
InBev combination, people said. These two and others insisted it
be an all-cash offer with a high premium, said one of these
people.  That became more doable for AB InBev after the brewer of
Budweiser paid down debt from the Anheuser deal, said another
person familiar with the matter. Although the company was
interested in the deal before Modelo was, it would have balked
at an all-cash offer until the last few months as financing
markets got friendlier for investment-grade borrowers, said this
person.  Improved Results  AB InBev will name Aramburuzabala and Diez Morodo to its
board after the transaction closes, a person with knowledge of
the matter said yesterday. The two new board members have
committed to invest $1.5 billion of the proceeds from selling
their Modelo shares into AB InBev shares, which will be
delivered within five years via a deferred share instrument,
according to a statement from AB InBev and Modelo yesterday.  As deal talks progressed, Modelo improved its results,
reporting a 1.2 percent gain in first-quarter domestic volumes
while boosting prices 7.2 percent.  Export sales, which accounted for 38 percent of the total,
rose 3.2 percent in dollar terms. About 80 percent of the
company’s exports go to the U.S., according to Jennifer Shelley,
a Modelo spokeswoman.  The Crown deal will give wine maker Constellation more
control over Corona and confidence to invest more heavily in
beer, said CEO Sands. The company had faced losing Modelo’s
brands at the end of 2016, when the contract with Modelo
expired. Owning all of the Crown venture will diversify sales,
boost profit and give Constellation room to take on other import
beers, Kaumil Gajrawala, a New York-based analyst for UBS AG,
said in a note.  “This deal is a game-changer,” Gajrawala said. It “gives
the company a more significant foothold in the U.S. beer
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  