-- Corinthian Colleges Sues State Over Data Souight in Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-29T21:26:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/corinthian-colleges-sues-state-over-data-souight-in-probe.html
Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) , an
operator of for-profit schools, sued  Illinois  Attorney General
Lisa Madigan seeking a state-court order shielding its
confidential data while she investigates its practices.  Madigan, a Democrat, has been investigating for-profit
schools for evidence they misled enrollees about post-graduation
career prospects.  The company, based in Santa Ana,  California , said she has
asked for employee compensation data, internal policy, training
and marketing manuals, strategic planning documents, personal
information on ex-students and other data.  “The school desires to cooperate with defendant and at the
same time protect its valuable confidential and proprietary
information from disclosure to third parties and competitors,”
Corinthian said in a complaint filed yesterday in Chicago.  Corinthian operates more than 100 schools in the U.S. and
 Canada , including Everest College, Heald College and WyoTech,
with an enrollment of 96,000 students, according to  its website .  Claiming the attorney general’s procedures violate
Illinois’s Trade Secrets Act, the company asked for a court
finding that her treatment of confidential business records is
invalid, an order barring those practices, and an order
directing Madigan to protect the company’s data.  The company has been unable to negotiate an agreement with
the attorney general, according to its complaint.  A spokeswoman for Madigan, Maura Possley, said in a phone
interview that the attorney general’s office is reviewing
Corinthian’s student recruitment practices. She declined to
comment on the company’s court filing.  The attorney general sued Alta Colleges Inc. in January for
allegedly violating state consumer fraud laws.  The case is Corinthian Colleges Inc. v. Illinois Attorney
General, 12-CH-23872, Cook County, Illinois, Circuit Court,
 Chancery Division  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 