-- Coty Seeks Up to $700 Million in IPO After Avon Bid Fails
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-06-29T14:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/coty-seeks-up-to-700-million-in-ipo-after-avon-bid-fails.html
Coty Inc. is seeking as much as $700
million in an initial public offering after the maker of
perfumes by  Beyonce Knowles  and  Heidi Klum  pulled a takeover
offer for  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)   All the shares in the IPO will be offered by existing
shareholders, the New York-based company said today in a filing.
Coty withdrew its sweetened $10.7 billion bid for Avon on May
15, citing the cosmetics seller’s refusal to negotiate.  After failing to gain control of Avon’s global door-to-door
sales network, Coty is working to spur revenue by entering new
regions and expanding distribution of brands in  emerging markets 
such as Rimmel and Adidas body-care products in China. The
company said it also seeks to use additional distribution
channels including direct television sales and e-commerce.  Coty projects net revenue of more than $4.5 billion in the
fiscal year 2012 and anticipates to generate  cash flow  from
operations of more than $550 million, an increase from $417.5
million in the previous year, according to the filing. In the 12
months ended March 31, the company had operating income of $304
million.  Coty, which holds perfume licenses for brands including
 Calvin Klein  and  Marc Jacobs , was founded in 1904 in Paris by
Corsican-born Francois Coty. The company helped develop perfume
into a mass product, with 36 million consumers two decades
later. Coty’s previous purchases include $400 million for a
majority stake in Chinese skin-care company TJoy Holdings Ltd.
in December 2010.  Potential Acquisitions  The IPO is set to be the biggest in the U.S. so far this
year in the consumer sector, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Coty hired  Bank of America Corp. , JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  to manage the offer.  Coty may also seek to make acquisitions, with potential
targets including Natura Cosmeticos SA of  Brazil , Oriflame
Cosmetics SA, the beauty care unit of Japan’s Kao Corp. and
France’s Yves Rocher Group, Vivienne Rudd, a personal-care
industry analyst at Mintel International, said last month.  JAB Holdings II BV holds 80.5 percent of Coty, according to
the filing. Entities affiliated with Berkshire Partners LLC, a
private-equity firm based in Boston, owns 7.5 percent, as do
entities affiliated with the Rhone Group LLC.  Coty Chairman Bart Becht had targeted Avon to add a door-
to-door distribution channel for its cosmetics and more than
double its annual sales from brands including Cerruti and
Wolfgang Joop.  Global IPOs  After “continued delay and unwillingness” by Avon to
engage in discussions, “it is time for Coty Inc. to move on and
pursue other opportunities,” Becht said last month, as the
company announced it was pulling its $24.75 a share offer for
Avon.  IPOs globally raised $41.3 billion this quarter through
yesterday, the worst April-June period since 2009, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. At least 50 companies shelved sales as
Europe’s debt crisis spread and growth prospects in China
dimmed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  