-- Credit Suisse Forecasts Profitable Second Quarter
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-06-29T09:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/credit-suisse-says-it-expects-to-report-second-quarter-profit.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, said it expects to post a
profit at the group level and in all divisions for the second
quarter.  Credit Suisse  rose  as much as 4.8 percent in Swiss trading,
and was 3.1 percent higher at 17.09 francs by 10:45 a.m. local
time. The Zurich-based company commented on earnings in an e-
mailed statement today after Swiss newspaper Tages-Anzeiger
reported the bank was profitable in the quarter.  Net income in the first quarter was 44 million francs
($46.1 million) after the company booked charges related to its
own debt and costs for 2011 bonuses. Net income in the second
quarter may amount to 519.3 million francs, according to the
mean  estimate  of three analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The second quarter hasn’t been great but also certainly
not as bad as some of the crisis quarters we’ve seen
previously,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at
Kepler Capital Markets who has a “reduce” rating on Credit
Suisse. “I would have been shocked if they weren’t
profitable.”  Credit Suisse  shares  are down 10 percent since the Swiss
central bank said in its annual financial stability report on
June 14 that the company has to boost capital “substantially”
this year. Pressure on earnings from low client activity in the
markets is making it harder for the bank to accumulate capital
to prepare for stricter requirements from regulators.  Biggest Shareholders  The bank’s board said after a regular meeting last week it
was “comfortable” with the progress made toward meeting Basel
III capital requirements and is “confident” in management’s
plans to further build up capital. The board includes
representatives from the bank’s two biggest  shareholders , Olayan
Group of  Saudi Arabia  and sovereign-wealth fund Qatar Holding
LLC, which participated in Credit Suisse’s 10 billion-franc
 capital  increase in October 2008.  The bank is in discussions with shareholders in Saudi
Arabia and Qatar about bringing forward the planned issuance of
contingent convertible bonds from October 2013 to this year,
Tages-Anzeiger also reported. The move would increase the bank’s
capital sooner than previously planned.  Credit Suisse spokesman  Marc Dosch  declined to comment on
the newspaper report beyond the company’s statement.  “From an economic point of view, it wouldn’t make a
difference if the bank brings forward CoCos,” Becker said. “If
it helps the sentiment, they should do it.”  Capital Ratio  Credit Suisse has no plans to sell shares, Chief Executive
Officer  Brady Dougan  told SonntagsZeitung in an interview
published on June 17. Credit Suisse’s common equity and
contingent convertible bonds, known as CoCos, amounted to about
5.9 percent of risk-weighted assets under Basel III at the end
of March, the central bank said. That ratio stood at 7.5 percent
for UBS AG, the country’s biggest bank, it said.  Had the SNB included CoCos to be issued next year in its
calculations, Credit Suisse’s capital ratio would have been 7.9
percent, Dougan told SonntagsZeitung. CoCos convert into shares
when the bank’s capital ratio falls below a predefined level.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 