-- David Jones Gets A$1.65 Billion Bid, Knows Nothing of Suitor
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-06-29T08:30:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/david-jones-gets-a-1-65-billion-bid-knows-nothing-of-suitor-2-.html
David Jones  Ltd.,  Australia ’s
second-largest department store owner, said it received a A$1.65
billion ($1.68 billion) offer from EB Private Equity, as
analysts expressed doubt about the credibility of the offer.  “We don’t know anything about the company or have been
able to find out anything of substance,” David Jones executive
director Stephen Goddard said in a phone interview.  David Jones shares rose the most in almost 17 years after
disclosing the approach, which values the company 38 percent
higher than its market value yesterday. The retailer has become
the subject of takeover speculation after a 47 percent share
slump last year and slowing consumer spending prompted it to
forecast its smallest annual profit in six years.  “It’s very difficult to believe,” Nick Berry, an analyst
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Sydney, said in a phone interview
today. “I’m really dubious. None of the shareholders know
anything about it.”  EB Private Equity didn’t reply to an e-mail sent to the
contact address on its  website , which doesn’t include the names
of any executives, phone numbers, or previous deals that
involved the company. The firm describes itself as a Luxembourg
and U.K. real estate and real estate related investor, developer
and private equity partner.  No company by that name is registered on  Companies House ,
the registrar of privately owned firms based in England and
Wales.  Contact Details  The website for EB Private Equity, ebpe.net, was created on
July 27, 2010, and is valid for two years, according to the
Whois database of domain names. The contact details of the
Newcastle-based registrant lists a Yahoo e-mail address and a
U.K. phone number, according to the database. A message left at
the number wasn’t immediately returned.  David Jones  jumped  15 percent to A$2.59 in Sydney today,
adding A$175 million of market value in the steepest advance
since November 1995 and swelling the company’s stock-market
capitalization to A$1.37 billion. More than 24 million shares
changed hands, about six times the daily average in the past six
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There’s not enough information available about EB Private
Equity for David Jones to evaluate its approach, the retailer
said today.  According to David Jones’ statement, EB Private Equity said
it would lead a group providing $850 million in equity. The
offer will also include $450 million of debt from a syndicate of
banks and investors, and $450 million in residual equity for
existing David Jones shareholders.  ‘Shot in Dark’  “I’m cautious,” said Peter Esho, the Sydney-based chief
market analyst at City Index Ltd., a London-based provider of
trading services in bonds, stocks and commodities. “It’s a shot
in the dark.”  David Jones’ market value is so depressed, its real estate
holdings alone in the business districts of Sydney and  Melbourne 
would be worth as much as A$1 billion if sold and leased back,
Bank of America Corp. analysts said in April.  In the interview, Goddard said the company received a two-
page proposal from the chairman of EB Private Equity. Goddard
declined to name the chairman, or say whether the letter named
the advisers acting for the suitor.  “We don’t know their partners nor others in any possible
syndicates,” he said. David Jones plans to respond to the
approach, Goddard said.  Blog Post  David Jones released the name of the bidder after a blog
that calls itself  newcastleetcfinanceblog  posted yesterday that
EB Private Equity bid 1.1 billion pounds, the equivalent of
about A$1.69 billion, for the retailer.  The blog, which says it covers “all finance and related
issues in the North East of  England ,” said EB Private Equity
was leading a group that includes some of Australia’s largest
real estate funds. Advisers on the proposal included Jones Lang
LaSalle and Chalkhill Partners, according to the post. The site
has 15 entries since June 17. The texts of those posts match
articles published by other U.K. media sites.  Stewart Booth, the chief executive officer and co-founder
of Chalkhill Partners LLP, said by phone early today that he
wasn’t aware of any proposal involving EB Private Equity and
David Jones. Mark Smallhorn, the head of valuations and advisory
in New South Wales for Jones Lang LaSalle, said he had no
knowledge of such a proposal.  The website for EB Private Equity displayed a link to its
designer, Laura Panton. A message left on her mobile phone and
e-mail weren’t immediately returned. She is based in Halifax,
England, according to a resume on her website.  -With assistance from Iain Wilson,  Lisa Pham  and Adam Haigh in
Sydney.   To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  