-- Davis Goes First in NBA Draft, Followed by 5 Kentucky Teammates
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-06-29T04:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/davis-goes-first-in-nba-draft-followed-by-5-kentucky-teammates.html
Anthony Davis  and Michael Kidd-
Gilchrist, who led the University of Kentucky to a national
championship, were the first two picks in the 2012 National
Basketball Association draft.  Davis was taken as the top selection by the New Orleans
Hornets, who finished last season with a Western Conference-low
21 wins. Kidd-Gilchrist went to the Charlotte Bobcats last night.  “My arm was shaking and my hands were sweaty,” Davis said
at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey. “Got up and
hugged Michael, my best friend, wanted to hug him for a minute.
When my name got called, wanted to make sure he stayed close.”  The Wildcats’ Terrence Jones was chosen by the  Houston
Rockets  at the 18th spot and Marquis Teague was picked 29th by
the  Chicago Bulls  as Kentucky claimed four spots in the first
round. Guard Doron Lamb went to the Milwaukee Bucks (42th
overall) and forward Darius Miller was reunited with Davis as
the Hornets’ 46th overall selection in the second round.  North Carolina also had four players taken in the first
round. Forward Harrison Barnes went to the Golden State Warriors
as the seventh pick; guard Kendall Marshall and forward  John
Henson  went back-to-back with the 13th and 14th selections by
the Phoenix Suns and Bucks, and center  Tyler Zeller  was selected
by the Dallas Mavericks in the 17th spot.  Knicks’ Papanikolaou  The  New York  Knicks, selecting for the first time with the
48th overall pick in the second round, took forward Kostas
Papanikolaou, 21, of Trikala, Greece. He played for the
Euroleague’s Olympiacos team, where he averaged 6.1 points and
3.4 rebounds per game last season.  Forward Ilkan Karaman, 22, who played with Karsiyaka in the
Turkish Basketball League, was taken by the Brooklyn Nets as the
57th overall selection.  The NBA champion Miami Heat, selecting 27th, picked
Mississippi State power forward Arnett Moultrie. The runner-up
Oklahoma City Thunder took Baylor power forward  Perry Jones  as
the 28th choice.  Davis, a 6-foot-10 forward, averaged 14.2 points, 10.4
rebounds and 4.7 blocks in his only college season.  Florida guard Bradley Beal was the No. 3 pick by the
 Washington Wizards  on his 19th birthday to become the third
consecutive Southeastern Conference freshman to be selected. The
 Cleveland Cavaliers  picked Syracuse guard Dion Waiters fourth
overall.  “Going into college I had everything going my way,” said
Waiters, when asked about his issue with immaturity at school.
“I went in as a boy and came out a man.”  The Sacramento Kings rounded out the top five with Kansas
forward  Thomas Robinson .  “I ain’t stopping for nobody,” said Robinson, “I got
work to do.”  Custody Battle  Robinson is fighting his father and an uncle for custody of
his 9-year-old sister, Jayla, who accompanied him to the draft,
the Kansas City Star reported.  In the space of a month in 2011, Robinson lost his mother,
who raised the two children on her own, to a heart attack and
both his maternal grandparents, the newspaper said.  The Portland Trail Blazers, with the sixth pick, selected
Weber State guard Damian Lillard, who was second in scoring in
the nation with 24.5 points per game. Washington guard Terrence
Ross went eighth to the Toronto Raptors. The  Detroit Pistons 
took Connecticut center Andre Drummond, a freshman, as the ninth
selection. Duke guard Austin Rivers, the son of Boston Celtics
coach  Doc Rivers , went next to the Hornets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  