-- Davis Enters Basketball, Business Spotlight as Top NBA Draftee
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-06-29T04:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/davis-enters-basketball-business-spotlight-as-top-nba-draftee.html
Anthony Davis  said he told himself
not to get nervous when his moment in the spotlight at the
National Basketball Association draft arrived.  “You just sit there at night, waiting on the day to
come,” he said after becoming the top overall pick by the  New
Orleans Hornets  last night. “When I was at that table and  David Stern  said ‘New Orleans is on the clock -- five minutes,’ I
started shaking. It just hit me right then and there.”  Stern, the league’s commissioner, soon greeted the 19-year-
old Davis at the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey,
signaling the start of a career that includes a guaranteed
minimum salary of $4.3 million next season, potential for
millions more in endorsements and the pressure of lifting a team
that had a Western Conference-low 21 wins in 2011-12.  Davis, one of a record six  University of Kentucky  players
drafted last night, found the spotlight quickly as a college
freshman in leading his team to the National Collegiate Athletic
Association championship as a freshman in April. He was chosen
the Associated Press Player of the Year, averaging 14.2 points,
10.4 rebounds and 4.7 blocks per game.  Davis was a shooting guard as a high school freshman before
a growth spurt turned him into a forward. He enters the NBA at
6-foot-10 and said last night that he was taking his time in
signing endorsement deals and a contract with a shoe company.  Marketing Opportunities  Those companies will now face the pressure of judging
whether Davis has the ability to handle all of his
responsibilities as the top pick, according to Matt Delzell,
group account director in the celebrity endorsement practice at
the Marketing Arm, which measures celebrity status in the U.S.  “Generally, big guys are harder to market, mostly because
they aren’t relatable,” Delzell said in an e-mail. “Kids on
the playground and kids in the suburbs can imagine playing
shooting guard and being 6-foot-3. It’s hard for a kid to
imagine being 6-10.”  Davis and his supporters already are banking on one of his
physical characteristics. They trademarked the phrases “Fear
the Brow” and “Raise the Brow” this month to capitalize on
his distinctive run-together eyebrows.  “My parents and agent came at me with the idea about
trademarking,” Davis said last night at a news conference.
“They said, ‘There’s no point in you having it and other guys
making money when it’s yours,’ so I thought it was a great
idea.”  Media Savvy  It signals a comfort with the spotlight that Davis says he
learned during his lone year at the Lexington,  Kentucky , school.  “Especially the six who played, we hit the spotlight all
the time and I think it really prepared me,” Davis said.  His college coach,  John Calipari , said Davis is a bright
kid who will handle the business side of being a top
professional basketball player well. Calipari himself
trademarked the term “Refuse to Lose” several years ago.  “I told him, ‘I didn’t know I was teaching you the
business side,”’ Calipari said in an interview. “He learned
well from me.”  It was the first time six players from the same school were
selected since the draft was shortened to two rounds in 1989.  Guard Michael Kidd-Gilchrist went second overall to the
 Charlotte  Bobcats, joining with Davis to become the first pair
of college teammates selected with the top two picks in the
history of the draft.  Other Wildcats taken during the 60-pick draft were  Terrence
Jones , 18th to the  Houston Rockets ; Marquis Teague, 29th to the
 Chicago Bulls ; Doron Lamb, 42nd to the  Milwaukee Bucks ; and
Darius Miller, 46th, joining Davis on the Hornets.  Wizards Third  The  Washington Wizards  selected Florida guard Bradley Beal
with the third overall pick, followed by Syracuse guard Dion
Waiters to the  Cleveland Cavaliers  and  Kansas  forward  Thomas
Robinson  to the Sacramento Kings.  Both  New York  teams were without a first-round draft pick.
The Nets, who played in the Prudential Center last season and
are moving to a new arena in Brooklyn beginning with the 2012-13
campaign, drafted Kansas point guard Tyshawn Taylor with the
41st pick and Turkish forward Ilkan Karaman with the 47th.  The Knicks chose Kostas Papanikolaou of Greece at No. 48,
drawing boos from fans at the arena who weren’t familiar with
the forward.  The Hornets also drafted Duke guard Austin Rivers with the
10th pick.  New Orleans  finished the lockout-shortened season
with a 21-45 record, tied with the Cavaliers for the third-worst
mark in the NBA behind the Bobcats (seven wins) and the Wizards
(20). The Hornets have reached the second round of the playoffs
once in 10 years.  Davis, who weighs 220 pounds (100 kilograms), said he needs
to get physically stronger to compete at the pro level.  He’ll need to succeed as an NBA player before becoming a
marketing superstar, said Matt Fleming, a senior manager at the
Dallas-based Marketing Arm.  “If he performs at the game-changing level that some NBA
experts are predicting, and he’s able to turn New Orleans into a
winner, the deals will come,” Fleming said in an e-mail.
“Winning is a key variable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  Newark , New Jersey, at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 