-- Dish Drops ‘Mad Men’ for ‘Bikini Barbershop’ in AMC Feud
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-06-29T14:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/dish-to-swap-hdnet-for-amc-s-mad-men-walking-dead-.html
Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , following
through on a threat to remove  AMC Networks Inc. (AMCX) ’s channels, said
it will replace “Mad Men,” “The Walking Dead” and other AMC
programs with movies and shows from HDNet this weekend.  AMC, IFC and We TV will be switched off at 11:59 p.m.  New
York  time tomorrow, Dish said today in a statement. Commercial-
free movies from HDNet will be substituted for AMC’s flagship
network. HDNet’s main channel, with shows such as “Bikini
Barbershop” and “Drinking Made Easy,” will stand in for IFC,
the independent film channel. The Style channel will replace We
TV, a network aimed at women.  Dish, the second-largest U.S. satellite-TV provider,
threatened to drop the channels in May, saying AMC was charging
too much for shows with limited viewership. AMC contends that
Dish is dropping its networks as a response to litigation
stemming from a 2008 lawsuit that may cost the satellite company
$2.5 billion.  “A significant portion of any pay-TV bill goes to fees for
content providers like AMC Networks,”  Dave Shull , senior vice
president of programming for Englewood, Colorado-based Dish,
said today in the statement. “AMC Networks requires us to carry
low-rated channels like IFC and We to access a few popular AMC
shows. The math is simple: It’s not a good value for our
customers.”  Losing AMC would mean Dish's 14 million viewers will miss
the fifth season of “Breaking Bad,” which has its season premiere
on July 15. AT&T Inc.’s U-verse, a service with about 4 million
video customers, also may drop AMC’s channels by 11:59 p.m. 
tomorrow.  AT&T said earlier this week it hadn’t reached terms on a
new contract with AMC, which is asking for “nearly double”
what other competitors pay for its networks.  AMC’s contractual dispute with  AT&T (T)  is “separate and
distinct from the situation with  Dish Network ,” Georgia Juvelis, an spokeswoman for New York-based AMC, said today in an
e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  