-- DNA Tests Fail to Win Insurer Consent With Lives at Stake
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-06-29T21:37:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/dna-tests-fail-to-win-insurer-consent-with-lives-at-stake.html
When Matt Christman watches his kids
play soccer every week, he harbors a nagging worry that one of
them will suddenly collapse and die of a heart attack.  Christman, 37, has hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, an
inherited condition that kills at least 1,600 people in the U.S.
annually. Among its victims are  Boston  Celtic Reggie Lewis, who
succumbed on a basketball court at 27, and Loyola Marymount
University basketball star Hank Gathers.  Implanted under Christman’s skin is a device that detects
and jolts away abnormal heart rhythms. He can’t walk 300 feet
without having to stop and rest. Fluid is building up in his
abdomen, making it difficult to breathe.  Each of Christman’s seven children has a 50 percent chance
they’ll have the same disorder, and a $500 genetic test could
tell them.  His health insurer won’t pay for it.  “For some people, the first symptom of this is cardiac
arrest -- they drop dead on the soccer field, the basketball
court,” Christman said, sitting in his living room while his
kids, all 12 years old and younger, played around him. “We have
a chance to be a step ahead of the game here. You just think
it’s a no-brainer for the insurance company.”  It’s far from a no-brainer. As genetic testing spreads,
revolutionizing how doctors recognize and treat illness, the
 insurance industry  is in a muddle. A genetic test one insurer
calls “actionable,” another considers “unnecessary.” Some
will pay to test sick patients, but not to find out who’s at
risk of a disease.  Expensive Alternative  Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, the  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  unit that
covers Christman through his employer, won’t pay for the test,
even though it will cover the more expensive alternative: annual
heart scans that will cost about $12,000 per child over the next
six years.  Geneticists say the new tests can give the precise identity
of cancers and their most vulnerable points, judge a person’s
predisposition to  Alzheimer’s disease , predict the best dose of
blood-thinning medicines in individual patients and target
prevention and treatment for people like Christman’s children.  Yet the rise of genetic testing may fuel demand for
treatments that may not work or that patients may not need, said
Ezekiel Emanuel, a former White House adviser who is now
chairman of the Department of Medical Ethics and Health Policy
at the  University of Pennsylvania  in Philadelphia.  “There’s a huge proliferation of genetic tests that are
not going to offset existing medical costs,” Emanuel said in a
telephone interview. “And while some of these tests help target
therapy, like in lung cancer, some of them are going to create
new costs.”  Not Approved  Doctors may prescribe intensive treatment even when a
genetic test suggests a cancer patient is at low risk, Emanuel
said. Some doctors may use them on people who are unlikely to
benefit from the findings of the test, he said.  Genetic tests themselves aren’t always reliable, said Rita Redberg, a  University of California ,  San Francisco , cardiologist
who advises WellPoint. Most of the tests aren’t approved by the
U.S. Food and Drug Administration, she said. The testing
procedures are overseen by the  Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
Services , which doesn’t evaluate the probes’ medical aspects.  “The labs that perform the tests are of variable quality,
and it’s often unclear how to use the results,” Redberg said in
a telephone interview.  Kathleen Raker, a 45-year-old attorney in Williamsport,
 Pennsylvania , began navigating the maze when she decided to
undergo  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ’s test for BRCA1, a gene that
signals a predisposition for  breast cancer , in 2007. Her mother
died of breast cancer at 28, and her maternal grandmother also
succumbed to the disease at 52.  Switching Coverage  At the time, Raker was covered by an insurer that paid for
the test. When she came up negative, a genetic counselor
suggested she undergo a second Myriad test that looks for other,
less-common DNA changes associated with breast cancer.  By the time Raker decided to follow up, she had moved to a
lower-cost insurance carrier, Geissinger Health Plan, with a
high deductible that meant she would have to pay for the testing
out of her own pocket. A genetic counselor from Geissinger
advised her to see whether she qualified for a Myriad program
that allows uninsured patients to pay just 10 percent of the
$700 cost of the follow-up test.  Myriad told her that while it will subsidize testing in
some patients who have no health coverage, it will not pay for
those covered by health plans that won’t pay.  Regulatory Limitations  Myriad has worked to have its tests covered by most private
and public payers, and estimates that 95 percent of U.S.
patients have access to its breast cancer test, said Rebecca
Chambers, a spokeswoman for the Salt Lake City-based company.
Due to regulatory limitations, patients who are recipients of
government-funded programs or those with third-party insurance
aren’t eligible to apply for subsidized tests, she said.  Raker is still hoping to be tested someday so she can tell
her children whether she has a cancer-associated mutation that
she may have passed on to them.  At the root of insurer resistance is concern over costs.
U.S. spending on genetic tests will balloon fivefold to as much
as $25 billion in the next decade, from $5 billion in 2010,
according to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the country’s largest
insurance company covering 36 million people. A majority of the
1,300 DNA tests developed to identify or manage medical
conditions still haven’t been studied enough to prove their
effectiveness or cost savings, UnitedHealth said in a  report 
released in March.  ‘Blind Alleys’  The company will pay for a genetic test that can accurately
tell doctors whether to use breast cancer drugs such as  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin, said Lee Newcomer, UnitedHealth’s senior
vice president of oncology services. Yet for each of these
reliable genetic tests, there are many more that remain
unproven, he said.  The concern is that the tests will “send you down blind
alleys,” said Reed Tuckson, UnitedHealth’s executive vice
president and chief of medical affairs. “That’s something you
wouldn’t want for anyone. And it takes the costs of care through
the roof.”  The growing number of tests may exacerbate the dilemma.
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston normally charges $1,000
to $2,000 for six genetic tests that help doctors decide how to
treat  lung-cancer  patients. The Harvard University-affiliated
hospital is preparing to offer a $500 test that detects all six
mutations -- along with about 500 more cancer-linked gene
defects, said Barrett Rollins, chief scientific officer.  Although the new test is cheaper and more informative, the
500 extra tests may suggest the use of treatments that are still
unproven in lung cancer, and drive up costs, he said.  Military Care  Tricare , the program that provides medical care for active-
duty military, also excludes most genetic tests, because they
lack FDA approval, said Austin Camacho, a spokesman. Tricare is
conducting a project to see whether it can approve coverage for
the tests, he said in an e-mail.  Medicaid, the health program for the poor that’s funded
jointly by states and the federal government, discourages the
use of many genetic tests by providing low reimbursement, said
 Aubrey Milunsky , director of Boston University’s Center for
Human Genetics. Massachusetts’s Medicaid program pays $30 for a
test for  fragile X syndrome , the most common inherited cause of
cognitive impairment.  Milunsky’s center normally charges $350 for the test. While
Milunsky will perform the analysis for Medicaid’s rate, many
other labs where he sends samples for testing won’t, he said.  Coverage Confusion  “The amount of confusion around coverage and reimbursement
for genetic testing is extraordinary,” said Sharon Terry,
president and chief executive officer of the Genetic Alliance,
an advocacy group based in  Washington .  Genetic tests differ from many other procedures in that the
test may be seeking mutations that are unique to individuals and
their families. Initial testing for these novel mutations may
cost as much as $3,000 to $4,000, Terry said. Once the familial
mutation is found, tests of relatives are usually far cheaper,
often on the order of a few hundred dollars, she said.  Informing children and helping other family members
determine whether they’re at high risk for  heart disease  is the
leading reason people get tested in her practice, said Allison
Cirino, a genetic counselor who sees cardiac patients at  Brigham
and Women’s Hospital  in Boston. People whose plans don’t cover
the testing frequently determine they can’t afford the tests on
their own.  Family History  Patricia Kraus of Wayne,  Michigan , has a family history of
 colon cancer , and has already lost a large portion of her colon
to the disease. She would like to take a Myriad test for colon
cancer, but her insurer,  Midwest Health Choice , won’t pay for
it. The cost of looking for a mutation would be about $3,000,
which hasn’t been tested for before in her family.  Although she’s already been treated for cancer, she wants
to be able to tell her children, who are all adults, whether she
has a gene mutation that they should be tested for.  “My daughter wants to have this test right now,” she
said. “My son is asking about it too.”  Matt Christman came around to score from second in a 2004
softball game when he noticed something unusual: he was out of
breath and light-headed. While it didn’t seem important at the
time, Christman, who lives in Huntington,  Indiana , discovered
the reason at his next checkup. He had a heart murmur.  620,000 Americans  An echocardiogram, an ultrasound image of the heart,
revealed telltale thickening in the wall. Abnormal growth in the
heart wall of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy garbles
electrical signals that keep blood pumping normally. The
scrambled impulses can lead to irregular heart rhythms that can
cause cardiac arrest.  About 620,000 Americans have the condition, according to
the  Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Association , a patient group.  A
2009 study in the journal Circulation reported that it killed
251 young athletes from 1980 through 2006.  Soon after being diagnosed, Christman had a device
implanted under his skin that detects abnormal heart rhythms and
can shock his heart back to a normal pace if necessary.
Christman’s mother, aunt and sister were also tested and found
to harbor the same mutation. They also began getting preventive
treatment.  Over the past year, Christman’s concern turned to his
children.  Rural Community  The family resides in a rural community, next door to the
farm where his wife, Christina, grew up and her parents still
live. Their comfortable small home is on a dirt road with an
above-ground swimming pool and wooden deck in back.  The children have worn a path to their grandparents’ farm.
The oldest three -- Alexandria, 12, Luke, 11 and Marianne, 10 --
make the 300-yard walk daily to do chores and 4-H club
activities, such as training sheep.  While home-schooled, the Christman children play in
basketball and soccer leagues. Marianne said she dreams of
taking ballet lessons. Luke goes on hiking trips with the Boy
Scouts, far from the protective view of his parents.  In November, Michael Mirro, Christman’s cardiologist,
recommended that the three oldest children should be tested for
the mutation. All three are on the verge of adolescence, when
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy often appears without warning.  Annual Tests  If the children couldn’t get the genetic test, Mirro said
he would recommend that they all undergo annual echocardiogram
imaging to check for thickening of the heart wall. That’s a cost
of at least $12,000 per child over the next six years, Mirro
said. For a few hundred dollars, the insurer might avoid those
procedures.  WellPoint estimates the cost of monitoring as much lower.
The company pays about $279 for an annual echocardiogram, Lori McLaughlin, a WellPoint spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Mirro’s point of view is backed by the  American Heart
Association  and the  American College of Cardiology , the biggest
U.S. groups of heart doctors. Their 2011 consensus statement
calls for genetic testing in close relatives of people with
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.  Christman thought WellPoint would be persuaded.  “I thought there was a pretty good chance they would cover
it,” he recalled.  WellPoint refused.  “Medical studies we have seen do not show that this
testing is likely to improve your treatment and health,”
according to a letter Christman received from the insurance
company.  Advisory Board  WellPoint has a medical advisory board of about 20 doctors
that meets four times a year to review its medical policies,
including its stance on genetic testing for hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy. Redberg, the UCSF cardiologist who sits on the
panel, says she never uses the genetic test for that particular
condition. The test doesn’t clearly identify which patients need
follow-up treatment and which are no longer at risk of heart
disease, she said. Wellpoint declined to discuss specific cases.  Inaccurate positive tests can be just as damaging to
patients, unnecessarily burdening them with the idea that
they’re at risk of sudden death and can’t play sports or engage
in beneficial exercise, she said.  “Before you start advising people that they might drop
dead, you want to make sure that this test is absolutely
correct,” she said. “You want the family history, a clinical
assessment and an echocardiogram. I don’t think the genetic test
adds to that.”  Aetna Inc. (AET)  takes an opposite view. The Hartford,
Connecticut-based insurer has routinely covered testing for
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in patients’ closest relatives since
November 2010, according to company documents.  ‘Actionable Information’  The test can help save money and feeds into important
medical and personal decision for patients, said Bob McDonough,
head of clinical policy research and development at Aetna.  “With any new genetic test, we want to make sure that what
we’re getting is more than just interesting data,” McDonough
said. “This test gives us actionable information.”  As he waited for word from WellPoint, Christman began
developing additional health problems. The defibrillator
implanted in his chest indicated he was having more frequent
abnormal heart rhythms. He began having increased fatigue and
breathlessness. Christman began to suffer from edema, or fluid
retention, in his belly that feels like a “a boa constrictor.”  Chores like mowing the lawn became too strenuous, and even
risky for Christman, so his wife took them on. He continued to
watch his children run and play, his concern rising.  Mirro fired off a letter to WellPoint, explaining the
necessity of the testing and the cost savings.  In March, WellPoint denied the testing again. Mirro drafted
another letter and called the company on the phone.  Not Necessary  In April, WellPoint sent a third round of letters denying
the Christman’s testing request. The letter said that the
company had completed its review of their appeal and repeated
that the test is “experimental” and “not medically
necessary.”  “We realize some cases are unique and therefore also
provide for a robust appeals process using clinically
appropriate specialists who are independent of WellPoint,”
spokeswoman McLaughlin said in an e-mail. The Christman’s can
continue to appeal, she said.  A civil engineer, Christman makes about $60,000 annually.
Baffled by WellPoint’s refusal to pay for a test his doctor says
is critical, he plans to spend $1,500 to have his three oldest
children tested if the company persists.  Christman said he’s most concerned about his 7-year-old son
Benjamin, who’s already shown signs that he’s more interested in
athletics than the others.  “I live every day with the concern about what their future
holds,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  