-- Domestic Systemic Banks to Face Tougher Rules in Basel Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-06-29T11:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/domestically-systemic-banks-to-face-tougher-rules-in-basel-plan.html
Large national banks will face
tougher  capital requirements  and supervision under plans by
global regulators to slash the risk that such lenders could fail
and roil financial markets.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  said today that
it is seeking to nail down guiding principles for supervisors of
these so-called domestically systemic, or D-SIB, banks, as it
published a set of draft measures for public comment. The move
follows a deal by regulators last year to impose capital
surcharges on a list of 29 even larger lenders whose failure
posed a threat to the global economy.  “The failure of such a bank could have an important impact
on its domestic financial system and economy,” the group said
in a statement on its website. These lenders should face
additional capital requirements “commensurate” with their
systemic importance, it said.  The euro area’s efforts to contain its debt crisis have
been frustrated by the weakness of some banks’ balance sheets,
including small and mid-size lenders. Spain and Cyprus both
sought aid this month after being unable convince markets that
they would be able to withstand their lenders’ losses.  The Basel committee brings together banking regulators
from 27 nations including the U.S., the U.K. and  China  to
coordinate rule-making.  Irreplaceability  Today’s paper calls on regulators to assess whether banks
they supervise are systemic based on their size,
interconnectedness, complexity or irreplaceability. Based on
this assessment, lenders should face additional capital
requirements, which should have to be met with  core reserves 
such as ordinary shares and retained earnings.  The paper leaves it to national regulators to decide what
the maximum level of these capital surcharges should be.  The group will seek views on the measures until Aug. 1,
with the plans set to enter into force in 2016.  “Although regulators will differ in their opinions of
what exactly constitutes a D-SIB, certain institutions should be
clear-cut cases,” James Babicz, head of risk at business
analytics firm SAS UK & Ireland, said in an e-mail prior to the
publication of the Basel paper.  “Consider  Nationwide Building Society  in the U.K., its
collapse would have a negligible effect globally but a huge
impact domestically due to its large slice of the U.K. mortgage
business.”  Wide Range  The D-SIB rules could potentially apply to a wide range of
lenders, including both stand-alone banks that dominate national
markets and locally important subsidiaries of international
financial companies, the Basel committee said.  Regulators should ensure that banks that are equally
systemic face similar surcharges, so preventing discrimination,
the group said. The committee plans to probe how regulators set
the capital rules to make sure there is also international
consistency.  One potential risk of the D-SIB initiative is that it could
lock more capital in a bank’s individual subsidiaries, meaning
it wouldn’t be available to bolster other parts of the lender in
times of crisis, Anders Kvist, head of group financial
management at  Sweden ’s SEB AB bank, said in a June 27 interview.  “It is better for overall stability if capital cushions
are held at the center of a group ready to be deployed where
capital is required in stress,” he said.  Under the Basel plan, local regulators would be free to
impose higher  reserve requirements  on subsidiaries of globally
systemic banks.  In such cases, “it is important that the home authority
continues to ensure there are sufficient financial resources at
the parent level, for example through a solo capital
requirement,” the group said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  