-- The Constitutional Right to Lie
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-06-29T16:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/the-constitutional-right-to-lie.html
Lost in the hoopla over the U.S.
Supreme Court’s  ruling  upholding the Affordable Care Act is a
fascinating and important free-speech decision that is one of
the oddest in the already strange history of the First
Amendment.  The case,  Alvarez v. United States , was all about lies. The
first sentence of Justice  Anthony Kennedy ’s plurality opinion is
an instant classic: “Lying was his habit.”  This is a substantial understatement. Xavier Alvarez was a
fabulist straight out of  Mark Twain . He “lied when he said that
he played hockey for the  Detroit Red Wings  and that he once
married a starlet from  Mexico .” When newly elected to the local
water board in Claremont,  California , Alvarez falsely told his
new colleagues that he was a retired Marine who had received the
 Medal of Honor  after being wounded repeatedly by the same
aggressor.  This last lie was unlike the others. It violated the Stolen
Valor Act of 2005, which made it a crime to lie about
decorations received in military service. It was already a crime
to lie about military service in order to defraud the government
or private person of some gain. The Stolen Valor Act
criminalized the mere act of lying about military decorations,
full stop. No intention to defraud was required.  Not Absolute  Alvarez seems not to have sought to gain anything by his
lie other than esteem. This made him a perfect test case for a
question that previously tormented no one but law professors and
their students: Does the right to free speech extend to lying
for no otherwise unlawful gain?  On the surface, the issue might seem straightforward. With
the possible exception of Justice Hugo Black, who liked to say
that “Congress shall make no law” really meant no law at all, no
Supreme Court justice has ever believed free speech to be
absolute. At times, the court has said that certain kinds of
speech -- such as obscenity, libel and the ill-defined “fighting
words” -- deserve no protection whatsoever. Although that
categorical approach has faded from the court’s jurisprudence,
the justices still believe that speech must have some value to
merit protection under the First Amendment.  What value inheres in lies about simple matters of fact?
What good could possibly come of Alvarez telling people that he
risked his life for his country when he did no such thing?  Three justices --  Samuel Alito ,  Antonin Scalia  and  Clarence Thomas  -- said the answer was, “none.” There was no reason, they
said, to stop Congress from criminalizing lies about military
service.  The other six justices disagreed. In oral arguments, it had
sounded as though a majority might uphold the law. But in two
separate opinions, neither commanding a majority of five, the
justices tried their best to explain what was so useful about
lying.  The job wasn’t easy. Alvarez’s lawyers, as well as some
academics who had filed briefs as friends of the court, had
urged the most brazen logic of all, one that Twain himself could
only have admired: Lying is a necessary and valuable component
of the self-presentation in which we all engage.  The trouble with this argument isn’t only that it turns Jay
Gatsby into the archetypal American. (He already is.) It’s that
our meritocratic culture is obsessed with sussing out the lies
that people slip into their accounts of themselves. From the MIT
dean of admissions to the Yale football coach to the chief
executive officer of Yahoo!, we have seen multiple examples of
the public shaming of the “genus: white liar, species: resume-
padder.”  Private Lies  That left the justices scrambling to explain just what was
wrong with the law. Kennedy, in his plurality opinion, pointed
out that it covered not only public statements but also
whispered conversations in the home. Yet, as Alito rejoined,
this observation simply showed the law was too broad -- not that
the prohibition had no value.  Kennedy also invoked the danger of a chilling effect on
legitimate speech. Here, too, the argument was weak: Presumably
the only person who would be chilled by the law was one who
self-consciously intended to lie about his military record, not
the octogenarian struggling to remember how many Purple Hearts
he had earned in  Korea .  Justice  Stephen Breyer , joined by Justice Elena Kagan, went
a bit further. He said that social lies are valuable “where they
may prevent embarrassment, protect privacy, shield a person from
prejudice, provide the sick with comfort, or preserve a child’s
innocence.” He added that public lies could “stop a panic or
otherwise preserve calm in the face of danger.” And, former law
professor that he is, Breyer invoked the Socratic method, in
which, he claimed, “examination of a false statement (even if
made deliberately to mislead) can promote a form of thought that
ultimately helps realize the truth.”  None of these arguments really addresses the Alvarez case.
The bride is always beautiful, said the rabbis of the Talmud.
And it is heartwarming for little Virginia still to believe in
 Santa Claus . These are matters of opinion and myth, not fact.
Public lies about imminent disaster are the product of a
paternalistic past and today would lose the teller his job.
Socrates, for his part, was playing a complex philosophical game
-- and the Athenians condemned him to death for his dangerously
corrupting truths, not his misleading statements, which were
mostly in the form of questions anyway.  Breyer didn’t mention  Stephen Colbert . But he did invoke
the famous assertion of John Stuart (Mill) that falsehoods in
debate promote the truth through their “collision with error.”
This might be closer to the right answer. Rooting out those who
lie about military commendations should make us consider
publicly the extraordinary debt we owe to those who risk or give
their lives and merit the real thing.  We don’t need to tolerate the liar. In a free society,
however, maybe we have to shoulder the burden of condemning him
ourselves -- instead of lazily trusting the government to do
something about it.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 