-- ECB May Need to Buttress Bond-Market Respite Leaders Made
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-29T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/leaders-grant-bond-market-respite-that-ecb-may-need-to-buttress.html
The  European Central Bank  is now the
focus of investors urging the ECB to reclaim the lead in crisis-
fighting after euro-area governments yesterday delivered relief
to the bond markets of  Spain  and  Italy .  By addressing flaws in their bailout programs, moving
toward a banking union and trying to break a negative loop
between troubled sovereigns and lenders, leaders sparked the
biggest rally in Spanish  bonds  and the euro this year.  Whether the gains continue may depend on the willingness
next week of ECB policy makers to reward political progress with
greater crisis-fighting steps of their own. Governments must
also avoid their past mistake of declaring victory too soon as
investors press them to move faster on binding the 17-nation
euro region more tightly.  “The ball is very much in the ECB’s camp,”  Gilles Moec ,
co-chief European economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  London , said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “The statement
creates an environment in which it makes it easier for them to
take more unorthodox decisions.”  Stocks jumped along with Italian bonds after 13 1/2 hours
of talks ended with leaders paving the way for cash-strapped
lenders to tap  Europe ’s bailout fund directly once they
establish a single banking supervisor. Until now, they had to
get aid through their governments, piling pressure on already
beleaguered national coffers. The Frankfurt-based ECB will play
a role in the new supervisory body, officials said.  Euro Guardians  The euro’s guardians also agreed to drop a requirement that
taxpayers get preferred creditor status on emergency loans to
Spanish banks. Other steps included agreeing to use rescue funds
to stabilize markets in certain conditions.  “There is pressure on the financial markets, that cannot
be denied,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters in
Brussels yesterday. “There was an interest here to find
solutions. My task was to see to it that the solutions respect
the procedures and rules that we have.”  Establishing the bank monitor and allowing the bailout fund
to recapitalize banks could take “several months or perhaps a
year,” she later told  Germany ’s lower house of parliament in
Berlin.  The euro surged the most this year against the dollar,
rising as much as 2 percent to $1.2693. Spain’s 10-year yield
plunged 61 basis points to 6.33 percent after hitting a euro-era
record of 7.29 percent on June 18. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
climbed the most in seven months, increasing 2.7 percent to end
the week at 251.17.  False-Starts  Summits have proved false-starts before. The euro weakened
against the dollar in the seven days following four previous
such meetings, according to a report this week by  Valentin Marinov , head of European and Group of 10 currency strategy at
Citigroup Inc. in London.  “There was a good reaction, but I don’t know if this
series of provisions will be enough,” Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  said. “Many European decisions in the past were
thought to have been enough, but then that’s not how it worked
out. I see more content than many other times in the past.”  The latest measures are aimed at luring investors back into
markets and breaking a vicious circle in which the woes of the
banks reinforced those of the sovereign and vice versa, fanning
a crisis which this week claimed Cyprus as its fifth victim.
They also aim to soothe bondholders spooked by the terms of a
Spanish banking bailout that sapped the feel-good factor created
by  Greece ’s election of a pro-bailout coalition government.  Seniority Damage  “If we never had the issue of seniority for bailout funds,
and if we had created direct bailouts for banks ages ago,
perhaps that would reduce the scale of the crisis,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange research at Societe Generale SA
in London. “The damage to international confidence in European
bonds has been done and won’t easily be repaired.”  Attention now turns to the ECB, which has acted following
political progress before, buying bonds after the establishment
of bailout programs in 2010 and giving banks unlimited three-
year loans following last year’s pledge to enact fiscal
discipline.  “I am actually quite pleased with the outcome of the
European council,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told reporters in
Brussels yesterday. “It showed the long term commitment to the
euro by all member states of the euro area.”  Embattled Periphery  Draghi, who refused to take questions, chairs the ECB’s
next policy meeting on July 5 amid speculation officials will
lower their  benchmark interest rate  by at least 25 basis points
to a record low 0.75 percent as the economy hovers near
recession. They may also cut their 0.25 percent deposit rate to
discourage banks from parking excess liquidity at the ECB.  As well as providing some economic support, lower interest
rates would also help embattled lenders in the so-called
periphery by making the central bank’s emergency loans cheaper.  An unresolved issue is whether Europe’s permanent bailout
fund, due to come into force in July, will get a bank license
that would allow it to tap the ECB. That would help ramp up the
power of a kitty now dwarfed by the size of the bond markets
that leaders want them to rescue, allowing it to buy debt in an
“unlimited and indefinite fashion,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at Jefferies International Ltd. in
London.  More Needed  The bailout funds now have 500 billion euros at most
available to them. Italy and Spain have about 2.4 trillion euros
combined of outstanding bonds, bills and loans.  The central bank still needs to do more than cut rates,
said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank.
Policy makers may back a third round of long-term loans as soon
as next week and “if we’re lucky” resume their controversial
bond-buying program, he said. Further chaos in markets may
persuade it to eventually cap yields given the bailout funds
don’t have the capacity to beat back investors for long,
Schmieding said.  “If the summit result encourages the ECB to step in with
serious support for sovereign bond markets, it could be a
smashing success,” he said. “If the ECB holds back instead,
the crisis could possibly escalate badly over the summer until
the ECB finally relents.”  For Deutsche Bank’s Moec, the enhanced supervisory role
envisaged for the ECB may make the central bank happier to act,
even though leaders didn’t make much progress on the fiscal
union that Draghi has been pushing.  ‘Huge Step’  “Offering the ECB the possibility of looking at what banks
do is a huge step forward for them,” he said. “The ECB may be
put off by the fact that there was no clear discussion on fiscal
integration and debt mutualization. But at the margins it helps
the ECB to make the right decision.”  The ECB may still hold off on delivering more than lower
borrowing costs as its officials want to keep pressure on
governments to act and feel liquidity is ample at the moment,
said  Michael Schubert , an economist at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt . They also oppose resuscitating their bond-buying
program given that it neither solves fiscal weaknesses nor helps
insolvent banks, he said.  The onus remains on leaders ultimately to match monetary
union with fiscal union, said David Mackie, chief European
economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. Even as she was forced to make
concessions on easing aid terms for Spain and Italy, Merkel
succeeded in keeping the central issue of euro bonds off the
summit’s agenda.  Shared loan liability would probably require new euro-wide
laws in which Germany would surrender its opposition to aiding
neighbors with unsustainable debts in return for a willingness
by the cash-strapped nations to accept more budget oversight.  “Reaching agreement on the road map to fiscal union will
be challenging, and there is then the thorny issue of the
national ratifications of a new treaty,” Mackie said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  