-- Health Ruling Vindicates Verrilli After Arguments Mocked
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/health-ruling-vindicates-verrilli-after-arguments-mocked.html
For U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the  Supreme Court ’s decision to uphold the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul meant vindication.  During oral arguments in March, Verrilli faced questions
from four of the court’s Republican appointees, and afterward
was mocked in campaign ads and by television talk-show hosts,
raising expectations that President  Barack Obama ’s signature
domestic-policy achievement would be thrown out.  Yesterday, after the court issued its 5-4 ruling affirming
the core of the 2010 law, Verrilli was the first person Obama
called. The health-care decision came three days after the high
court largely sided with Verrilli and the administration by
scaling back an  Arizona  law targeting illegal immigrants.  “Don is one of the great Supreme Court and appellate
advocates of our generation and he knew that,” said David Ogden, a former deputy attorney general who is now a partner at
WilmerHale in Washington. “He knew he did a job that was good
enough to win the case.”  Verrilli, 55, endured some suspenseful moments in the
courtroom yesterday. While the decision was distributed outside
to media and other watchers, people inside -- including Verrilli
-- listened as Chief Justice  John Roberts  announced the ruling.
With Verrilli sitting several feet away, Roberts started by
saying the requirement at the core of the law -- that
individuals get insurance or pay a penalty -- couldn’t be upheld
under Congress’ power to regulate interstate commerce.  Champagne Celebration  For about ten minutes, the measure’s future looked in
doubt. Then, Roberts switched gears, saying that the majority
had concluded Congress had the authority to impose the insurance
requirement -- under its power to levy taxes, salvaging the
health-care overhaul’s constitutionality.  Verrilli and his colleagues celebrated afterward with
champagne back at his office. The moment was a far cry from late
March when commentators highlighted the harsh questioning he
endured from the justices, including Roberts,  Antonin Scalia  and
 Anthony Kennedy , as signs the law would be struck down.  Following the argument, Verrilli was mocked and criticized
by people ranging from  Comedy Central ’s “The Daily Show” host
 Jon Stewart  to CNN legal commentator Jeffrey Toobin. The
 Republican Party  followed with an Internet advertisement that
altered Verrilli’s presentation to show him struggling for words
and twice stopping to drink water.  “It was sufficiently sustained and nasty that it would
affect anybody,” said  Paul Smith , Verrilli’s former partner at
Jenner & Block. “But Don is a grown-up and knows what a tough
town it can be.”  ‘Break Badly’  Verrilli, a Columbia Law School graduate and former law
clerk to Justice William Brennan, returned to work after the
health-care arguments and focused on the immigration case which
was still pending. Privately, he made light of the criticism,
and he hinted at it publicly during a speech to Columbia law
graduates last month.  “There will be times when things break badly for you,” he
 told  them. “You don’t live up to the expectations you have for
yourself and others have for you. It happens to all of us. And
when it happens it can be tough, believe me.”  The oral arguments represented only a portion of what the
court considered in reviewing the Obama health-care law, with
the administration’s case also made through court filings.  Well Prepared  Verrilli was well prepared and should not be criticized for
presentation, according to Jack Balkin, a law professor at  Yale
University . “People tend to approach these arguments like it is
Dancing with the Stars,” he said. “They are not looking at the
substance and strategy.”  In a late filing to the court, Justice Department lawyers
included more discussion of the U.S.’s tax power, while Verrilli
also tailored parts of his argument toward Roberts and Kennedy
in an effort to have one of them join the four more left-leaning
justices to form a majority, Balkin said.  Nominated in January 2011 to replace  Elena Kagan  as
Solicitor General, Verrilli had worked at Jenner & Block in
Washington representing the music and movie industries, winning
a 2005 Supreme Court ruling that lets them press copyright suits
against Internet file-sharing networks.  Verrilli also argued for limits on the death penalty, as in
1998 when he unsuccessfully urged the Supreme Court to bar the
three-drug method of lethal injection used across the country.  The decision on tax power surprised  Paul Clement , the
former solicitor general who represented 26 states challenging
Obama’s health care law. Arguments before the court focused more
on the  Commerce Clause , with taxing “not the focus,” he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  “There’s satisfaction in winning a big case, but more
gratifying when people don’t expect you to win,” said Kannon Shanmugam, an attorney with Williams & Connolly in  Washington 
who has argued 11 cases before the Supreme Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  