-- ECB Says Hungary Ready to Respect Central Bank Independence
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-06-29T11:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/ecb-says-hungary-ready-to-respect-central-bank-independence-1-.html
Hungary’s proposed amendments to a
disputed central bank law address main concerns about the
independence of monetary policy, the  European Central Bank  said.  “The draft law addresses the most important remaining
concerns regarding the Magyar Nemzeti Bank’s independence,” the
Frankfurt-based institution said on its  website . The draft
amendments and other government commitments indicate that the
Cabinet is “now ready to respect the MNB’s institutional
independence,” according to the document.  Hungary is seeking to end a seven-month deadlock to start
aid negotiations with the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union after talks collapsed over the central bank law.
The IMF agreed this week to start official negotiations once
legislators approve the amendments.  Changes to the jurisdiction of the rate-setting Monetary
Council “fully resolve” the ECB’s concerns, according to the
document. The regulations of the appointment of new rate-setters
and a third vice president, along with the government’s
commitment not to increase the size of the council during the
present governor’s term, address “immediate concerns,” the ECB
said, adding that further checks and balances in this area
“would be advisable.”  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  requested the aid in November
as the country’s credit grade was cut to junk and the forint
fell to a record against the euro. Preliminary talks broke down
in December after Hungary passed a law that the IMF and the
European Union said may curb central bank independence.  Forint, CDS  The forint advanced 0.7 percent to 288.22 per euro by 12:25
p.m. in Budapest, boosting this month’s gain to 4.4 percent, the
second-best performance in the world after the Mexican Peso. The
cost of insuring against non-payment on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps for five years fell to 513 basis points,
the lowest since May 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The ECB struck down a previous set of amendments submitted
to the law last month, saying they were “insufficient” to
restore monetary policy autonomy. The government revoked those
changes and presented a new draft bill on June 21.  Present proposals on the dismissal on rate-setters are
“satisfactory,” according to the document, while the changes
in central bank salaries, the replacement of the governor upon
the expiration of the term of office and the oath taken by the
governor and deputy governors remain a concern.  The amendments will be approved by Parliament on July 12 at
the latest,  Mihaly Varga , the country’s chief bailout negotiator
said on June 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  