-- Megaupload Judge Defers Decision on Seizing Users’ Data
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-06-29T17:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/megaupload-judge-defers-decision-on-seizing-users-data.html
A U.S. judge deferred a decision on
whether the government should set up a way for Megaupload.com
users to regain access to millions of gigabytes of data the
company managed before being shut down as part of a criminal
copyright-violation case.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady in Alexandria, Virginia,
today heard arguments over a request by a Megaupload user, Kyle
Goodwin, that the government be ordered to create a mechanism
allowing those who used the website for legitimate purposes to
retrieve their data.  “We’ll look at it a little further and issue an order
shortly,” O’Grady said at the end of the 1 1/2-hour hearing.  Investigators in January executed more than 20 search
warrants in the U.S. and eight other countries and seized about
$50 million in assets associated with Megaupload. Company
founder Kim Dotcom was arrested in  New Zealand .  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from
websites including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors allege.  Since September 2005, the conspiracy generated more than
$175 million in criminal proceeds by distributing millions of
copies of copyrighted works, including movies, television
programs, music, books, video games and software, according to
the indictment.  Lifetime Subscription  Of that, more than $150 million came from premium
subscriptions and $25 million from online advertising, according
to the indictment. A lifetime subscription cost about $260, the
indictment said.  Yesterday, a New Zealand judge ruled that Kim Dotcom had
his home searched illegally by police as part of the
investigation. Dotcom is free on bail and awaiting an
extradition hearing scheduled for August.  Prosecutors today argued that users who had data stored
with Megaupload should be required to act as unsecured creditors
and file civil actions against Megaupload or  Carpathia Hosting
Inc. , the Dulles, Virginia-based company that Megaupload paid to
store the data.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Andrew Peterson compared
Megaupload’s data storage to that of a service provider, rather
than a holder of property.  “A file-copying service is what Megaupload provided,” he
said.  Goodwin isn’t “asking that service be restored,” O’Grady
responded. “He’s asking for his data back, and that’s property,
right?”  The case is U.S. v. Dotcom, 12-00003, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  