-- Egypt’s Transition From Hosni Mubarak to Mohamed Mursi: Timeline
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-29T11:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/egypt-s-transition-from-hosni-mubarak-to-mohamed-mursi-timeline.html
From the start of mass protests
against  Hosni Mubarak  to tomorrow’s swearing in of Mohamed Mursi
as  Egypt ’s first democratically elected civilian president,
below are some key dates in the country’s transition.  December 2010: Mohamed Bouazizi, an unemployed Tunisian, sets
fire to himself in the incident that provoked the first uprising
of the Arab Spring.  2011  Jan. 14: Tunisian President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali flees the
country after a month of protests.  Jan. 25: Tens of thousands participate in mass rally in Egypt
demanding Hosni Mubarak step down. The protest is violently
dispersed.  Jan. 27: Egyptian stock exchange closes after a two-day loss of
16 percent. Trading is later suspended and doesn’t resume until
March 23.  Jan. 28: Hundreds of thousands gather for march to Cairo’s
Tahrir Square in a “Day of Rage.” The government shuts down
internet and mobile-phone services. Clashes erupt between the
protesters and the police before the  Interior Ministry ’s forces
withdraw and the army is deployed.  Jan. 29: A curfew is imposed, and ignored by the demonstrators
who carry on through the night. Mubarak appoints military
intelligence chief  Omar Suleiman  his vice president and Ahmed Shafik is named as prime minister after Ahmed Nazif is fired.  Feb. 2: “Battle of the Camel.” Mubarak supporters charge into
Tahrir Square on horses and camels, wielding whips, clubs and
other weapons, resulting in hundreds of casualties. The military
does not intervene. Internet connection restored.  Feb. 11: Suleiman says Mubarak has relinquished power and the
military council headed by Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi
is taking over.  Feb. 13: The Supreme Council of the Armed Forces dissolves the
parliament and suspends the constitution.  March 3: Shafik is replaced by Essam Sharaf as prime minister
amid continued protests.  March 19: Egyptians vote on constitutional referendum, approving
it in ‘yes’ vote of over 77 percent.  Aug. 1: Military clears  Tahrir Square  after months of protests,
dismantling tents used by the demonstrators in a move cheered by
many in the capital after the rallies disrupted daily life for
months.  Aug. 3: Mubarak’s trial begins on charges including complicity
in the deaths of more than 850 people killed in the uprising. He
is wheeled in on a hospital bed and pleads not guilty.  Sept. 9: Protesters storm the Israeli Embassy in Cairo after
several military personnel and security forces are killed along
the Egypt-Israel border. The attack prompts the military to
expand the emergency laws.  Oct. 9: The army and Coptic Christians clash outside the state
radio and television building in Cairo. More than two dozen are
killed.  Nov. 19-25: The army and demonstrators clash near Tahrir Square,
leaving dozens dead. Sharaf’s Cabinet resigns and Kamal el- Ganzouri, who had served as prime minister under Mubarak, is
named as the head of the new government.  Nov. 28: First stage of the country’s three-phase parliamentary
election begins.  2012  Jan. 21. Results of the parliamentary vote are released, showing
the Muslim Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party winning about
47 percent of the legislature’s lower house while the Salafi
Nour Party secured around 25 percent of seats.  Jan. 23: Parliament convenes for its first session since the
uprising. FJP lawmaker Saad el-Katatni is elected as speaker.  March 27: Secularists and others withdraw from a 100-member
committee charged with drafting the country’s new constitution,
complaining that it was dominated by the Islamists.  March 31: Muslim Brotherhood reverses course on earlier pledge
to not field a presidential candidate and names its chief
strategist, Khairat el-Shater, as its nominee.  April 8: The FJP nominates its chief, Mohamed Mursi, as a back-
up candidate amid concerns that el-Shater would be disqualified
by the election commission.  April 15: Election commission disqualifies el-Shater, along with
Suleiman and Salafi lawyer-turned-cleric Hazem Abu Ismail from
the presidential race.  May 2: Clashes break out near the  Defense Ministry , sparking
days of violence that left several dead and dozens wounded.
Supporters of Abu Ismail reported to have played a major role in
the unrest.  May 23-24: First round of presidential election is held with 13
candidates running for office. Mursi and Shafik emerge as the
two leading votewinners who will compete in the runoff.  June 2: Mubarak sentenced to life in prison on charges of
failing to prevent the killing of protesters. His longtime
security chief is also sentenced to life while six other top
security officials are acquitted. Critics say those acquittals
open the door for the overturning of Mubarak’s sentence on
appeal.  June 14: Egypt’s highest court orders the dissolution of
parliament on the grounds that parties improperly fielded
candidates for the one-third of the seats reserved for
individual nominees.  June 16-17: Second-round election is runoff between Mursi and
Shafik. Both candidates claim victory. Field Marshal Tantawi
issues order dissolving parliament, enforcing the court’s
ruling.  June 17: Ruling military council issues new constitutional
addendums hours after polls close, giving itself new powers at
the expense of the presidency. The Brotherhood and other groups
liken the move to a coup.  June 24: Election commission declares Mursi the winner, after
delaying an announcement initially scheduled for June 21 in
order to evaluate appeals by both candidates.  June 29: Egypt’s presidency announces that Mursi will take oath
of office before the  Constitutional Court  on June 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  