-- Egypt Handover Ceremony Won’t End Mursi’s Army Struggle
-- B y   M a r i a m   F a m   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-29T17:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/egypt-handover-ceremony-won-t-end-mursi-s-army-struggle.html
Egypt will swear in its first freely
elected president tomorrow, completing a chaotic transition to
civilian rule while leaving question marks over how he will
share power with the generals who have run the country since the
fall of  Hosni Mubarak .  Mohamed Mursi will take the oath before Egypt’s highest
court, his office said late yesterday, ending a dispute over the
venue. He will then address the nation from Cairo University.  Mursi’s background, as a member of the long-suppressed
 Muslim Brotherhood , marks him out from his predecessors, all
military men. So does his route to the job via a free election
in which he defeated Ahmed Shafik, a former air force commander
and premier in the last days before Mubarak’s ouster in a
popular uprising in February last year.  The generals who ruled Egypt in the interim between Mubarak
and Mursi acted to expand their powers at the expense of the
presidency immediately after polls closed on June 17. The move
sparked protests by the Brotherhood and some secular activists,
and may signal a prolonged contest for power which could set
back recovery in the country’s battered economy.  “What happens over the next few months, in terms of the
type of government that emerges and the reaction from the
military, will basically define if this is the  turning point 
we’re all hoping to see in Egypt or not,” said Said Hirsh, an
economist at  Capital Economics  in  London . “A very broad
coalition partnering with the other major parties could
potentially curb the powers of the military.”  Court Defeat  The debate over where Mursi would be sworn in to office
illustrated how much remains undecided in post-Mubarak Egypt.
The choice of the court is a defeat for the Brotherhood, which
argued he should be sworn in before the elected parliament. The
assembly was ordered dissolved by the military council in line
with a constitutional court ruling earlier this month.  In another sign that the contest for power isn’t over, the
Brotherhood was taking part in street protests against the army
council’s moves even as Mursi prepared to take over from the
generals.  The president-elect spoke to tens of thousands of Egyptians
in  Tahrir Square  today, telling them they are the source of all
authority and determination. He said he was addressing all
Egyptians, Muslims and Christians, as well as Arabs in the wider
region.  ‘One of You’  “I appear before you without a bullet-proof vest,” Mursi
said in remarks aired on Jazeera TV, adding he felt safe among
his people. “Resilient revolutionary men and women, boys and
girls, I am one of you. I always was and always will be.”  Mursi swore a symbolic oath of office, pledged to build a
constitutional, civil and modern state and alleviate the
suffering of all Egyptians. Those who supported his election and
those who didn’t will be treated equally, he told the crowd,
promising to respect the constitution and eliminate corruption
and injustice. He also remembered martyrs who “made great
sacrifices” for freedom and warned that  Egypt  will respond to
any aggression against it.  The president-elect sent a clear message to the military,
saying he won’t compromise or forsake any of his rights as the
country’s leader, that he feared “only God” and there is no
authority above the people. Egypt’s foreign relations will be
determined on the basis of dignity and sovereignty, he said.  Women, Christians  The Brotherhood is joining other groups in protests
demanding that the dissolution of parliament and the decree
expanding the military council’s powers should be reversed, its
secretary-general, Mahmoud Hussein, said in a phone interview.
The Brotherhood controlled almost half of the assembly’s seats
after winning elections that ended in January, and the absence
of a legislature will deprive Mursi of an ally.  Mursi says he will reach out to women and Christians to
overcome concern among some about the imposition of Islamic law.
He faces a challenge in winning over a public that has been
polarized by more than a year of tussles between the generals,
Islamist politicians led by the Brotherhood, and the largely
secular activists that led the uprising.  The election runoff between Mursi and Shafik was widely
seen as a contest between Islamists and the old regime, with
many Egyptians including some of the youth activists rejecting
both options.  ‘No Trust’  “There’s no trust,” said Emad Gad, a political analyst
and a secular lawmaker in the disputed parliament. “If they
work toward monopolizing power, it would be difficult to
envision any kind of cooperation,” he said of the Brotherhood.
“If they accept to share power” then secular and liberal
parties may be able to work with the group, he said.  Egypt’s financial markets have welcomed Mursi’s victory,
which averted the risk of renewed violence if Shafik had been
declared the winner.  The benchmark  EGX-30 stock index  has gained 17 percent in
the week since the election result was announced. Yields on
Egypt’s benchmark dollar bonds have dropped more than 1.2
percentage points, to about 6.6 percent.  The economy, though, has struggled since the revolution as
tourists and investors stayed away. The central bank spent more
than half its currency reserves, as it sought to prop up the
pound, while unemployment has risen since the uprising.  The  budget deficit  may widen to 10 percent of economic
output this year, the most among Arab nations, according to the
 International Monetary Fund .  No Money  “Shortages during Ramadan and inflation in the back half
of this year will test people’s patience sooner rather than
later,” said Crispin Hawes, director for the  Middle East  and
North Africa at the Eurasia Group, which monitors political
risk. “There’s an unequal equation here. There’s an expectation
that the government will spend a lot more money and the money
isn’t there.”  Mursi is “still looking” at the option of getting a $3.2
billion IMF loan, and talks on the credit will continue after
they were put on hold during the election, his adviser Yasser
Ali said yesterday.  The new president will take on these challenges under a
level of scrutiny unthinkable in the Mubarak era. Even before he
was sworn in, a  Mursi Meter  website was set up to monitor his
performance “by documenting what has been achieved as opposed
to his promises” during the first 100 days of his rule.  Tackling Problems  Mursi has set an agenda for that period that includes
tackling chronic problems that plague everyday life in Egypt,
including traffic and cleaning up the piles of garbage that sat
untouched for months.  Those benchmarks may determine whether Mursi can satisfy
the desires of the people who elected him. Some of them were
standing in line outside the presidency in the upscale Cairo
neighborhood of Heliopolis yesterday, hoping to be allowed in to
meet the new leader.  “We finally have someone who thinks of Egypt instead of
himself,” said Samir Abdel-Meguid, a 45-year-old accountant.
“Even if it turns out to be an act he’s putting on for now, it
would be good if he actually does fix some of the problems
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  