-- Elliott Demands $3.2 Billion Lehman Brokerage Payout
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-29T16:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/elliott-demands-3-2-billion-lehman-brokerage-payout.html
Elliott Management Corp., a hedge
fund client of defunct brokerage  Lehman Brothers Inc ., demanded
that trustee James Giddens make an initial payment of
$3.2 billion to creditors.  The Lehman brokerage has been in liquidation since
September 2008, without paying institutional clients any money.
Elliott wants the biggest possible payout “promptly,” after
Giddens has sold securities owned by the brokerage, according to
a court filing. Giddens could pay almost 26 cents on the dollar
of allowed claims totaling $12.2 billion, while still reserving
enough money for disputed claims, Elliott said.  Giddens, who also is liquidating the MF Global Inc. broker-
dealer, transferred 110,000 mostly retail Lehman accounts
containing $90 billion in assets, largely to  Barclays (BARC)  Plc, soon
after the Lehman parent filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S.
history. Elliott and other customers “were not fortunate enough
to participate in that process,” the New York-based firm said.  “For years, the trustee has been aspiring to make an
initial, partial distribution to customer claimants in the
relatively near term,” Elliott said. “But the aspirational
date has slipped further and further into the future, from the
first half of 2011,” and now might come as late as the fall, it
said in the filing in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan 
yesterday. “It is time to establish a method for
distributions.”  Lehman Distribution  A 26 percent payout by the brokerage would dwarf the Lehman
parent’s first distribution of 2 cents on the dollar to 6 cents,
excluding subordinated claims, Elliott said.  “The trustee has already made retail customers whole,”
said Jake Sargent, a Giddens spokesman. “The remaining claims
are few in number and relate to Lehman affiliates, large banks
and  hedge funds .” Giddens is “urgently addressing the
significant hurdles that stand in the way” of paying them, he
said in an e-mail today.  Peter Truell , an Elliott spokesman, wouldn’t say how much
the hedge fund firm is claiming from Giddens. Elliott separately
is a member of the creditors committee for the brokerage’s
parent, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  Giddens said again in December he planned to start paying
the Lehman brokerage’s remaining customers soon, from available
assets of $18.3 billion. He didn’t say how much money customers
can expect, only that his goal was to make “a significant”
payment. Large payouts must await the resolution of remaining
disputes over claims filed against the brokerage, he said.  Share Equally  By law, Giddens must share the assets equally among
customers. At the time, he had gathered $23.7 billion to pay
customers from settlements, litigation and negotiations with
banks and other business partners, according to court records.
By March 30, Giddens had $25.4 billion of securities in hand,
Elliott said.  He was holding $3 billion of the total in reserve for a
court fight with London-based Barclays, which in 2008 bought
North American businesses of Lehman Brothers Holdings. That
fight continues after Giddens appealed a ruling that handed him
a second defeat in court.  Billions of dollars more are at stake in Giddens’s disputes
with Lehman Brothers Holdings and its London affiliate. The
trustee also is hesitating over which assets go to which
customers, Elliott said.  The Lehman brokerage liquidation is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Lehman Brothers Inc., 08-01420,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  