-- Melrose to Acquire Elster for $2.3 Billion to Add Metering
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-06-29T12:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/melrose-agrees-to-buy-elster-for-2-3-billion-to-add-metering.html
Melrose Plc (MRO) , a U.K. investment
company focused on engineering companies, agreed to buy  Elster
Group SE (ELT)  for $2.3 billion in cash to access gas- and power-
meters for advanced electricity grids.  The $20.50-a-share offer for Elster, partly owned by CVC
Capital Partners Ltd., will be funded by a 1.2 billion-pound
($1.9 billion) rights offering and debt, the London-based
company said. The offer is 49 percent higher than Elster’s
closing price on June 11, the day prior to bid speculation.  The takeover follows Melrose’s unsuccessful battle to
acquire Charter International Plc, bought by Maryland-based
 Colfax Corp. (CFX)  for $2.7 billion six months ago. The situation this
time is very different, as shareholders and managers with a
combined stake of almost 65 percent have already committed their
stakes, Melrose Chief Financial Officer  Geoff Martin  said.  “There’s evidence that a number of global corporates are
interested in this area so we went fast, but now we’re
secured,” Martin said in a phone interview. “No one can take
that stake away from us.”  Elster competes with  Itron Inc. (ITRI)  and  Switzerland ’s Landis +
Gyr AG, acquired by  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  last year for $2.3 billion.
Other rivals include Sensus USA Inc., and Techem AG, a German
reader of utility meters, which is owned by Macquarie Bank Ltd.  Melrose rose 0.1 percent to 368.9 pence at 9:44 a.m. in
London trading.  Additional Investments  Managed by former Wassall Plc executives, Melrose targets
under-performing engineering and manufacturing companies and has
investments spanning plastic components, waste recycling and
building products. Elster will add to earnings from the second
year of ownership.  While “delighted” by the overall plan put in place by
CVC, Chief Executive Officer Simon Peckham and CFO Martin now
plan to “have a look around” to assess what additional
investments and measures are needed to improve the business. CVC
floated the business in 2010 and it generated $1.9 billion in
revenue last year. Elster has deployed more than 200 million
meters.  Martin said the focus is on expanding and improving
factories at Elster, and making any bolt-on acquisitions needed,
rather than cutting costs. Melrose proceeded with a new 20
million-pound ($31.3 million) factory at its Bridon unit last
year, the lifting-equipment manufacturer’s largest investment to
date.  Rights Offering  Based on estimates for 2012 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, Melrose is paying a
multiple of about 10 times. Toshiba paid 10.7 times trailing
Ebitda for Landis + Gyr, according to Credit Suisse estimates..  Melrose plans a 2 for 1 rights offering and pre-marketing
meetings with institutional shareholders have already been held,
the company said. A number of shareholders have already
committed to sub-underwrite more than 60 percent of the
offering.  The U.K. company’s typical investment horizon is three to
five years.  JP Morgan (JPM)  Cazenove advised Melrose on the deal and is
underwriting the transaction with Investec Bank Plc. Book
runners and joint underwrites include  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Royal Bank
of Canada, and HSBC. Rothschild and Deutsche Bank AG advised
Elster.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  