-- Emerging Stock Funds Post Quarterly Outflows on Europe
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-29T03:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/emerging-stock-funds-post-quarterly-outflows-on-europe.html
Emerging-market equity funds posted
$8.7 billion of outflows in the second quarter as the  European
debt crisis  pushed Spain’s borrowing costs to a record and
concerns grew that the economic slowdown in  China  is deepening.  Flows out of developing-nation stock funds reached $262
million in the week ended June 27, narrowing inflows this year
to $14 billion, analysts led by  Markus Rosgen  wrote in a report
today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  “The renewed problems of Greece and potential contagion
risk to other parts of the Euro-area, such as the Spanish bank
liquidity concern, along with a batch of poor economic data,
particularly in China, have surely weighed on the equity markets
and fund flows in the second quarter,” Kelly Kwok, one of the
Citigroup analysts, said in an e-mailed interview.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  has fallen 12 percent since
the end of March, poised for the biggest quarterly loss since
the three months to Sept. 30. The  emerging markets  index  trades 
at 10 times estimated profit, compared with 12 times for the
MSCI World Index of developed nations, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The developing-nations gauge jumped 1.2 percent to 917.78
as of 11:47 a.m. in  Hong Kong  after Euro-area leaders agreed to
drop a condition that emergency loans to Spanish banks give
their governments preferred creditor status.  Europe’s debt crisis has hurt the outlook for shipments to
the region from developing nations. The 21 countries in the MSCI
Emerging-Markets Index send about 30 percent of their exports to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show. Brazil,  Russia , India and China, the four
largest emerging markets, count the EU as their largest export
destinations, the WTO data show.  Chinese Industrial Profits  Russia’s RTS Index has tumbled 22 percent this quarter, the
most of the four markets. Brazil’s Bovespa Index is the next
worst with an 18 percent slump. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
lost 2.3 percent, including a 6.8 percent drop in June.  Chinese industrial companies’ profits declined for a second
month in May, a government report showed today, as slowing
economic growth hurt corporate earnings. The China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing may report on July 1 that the
 Purchasing Managers ’ Index dropped to 49.9 this month, falling
below the dividing line of 50 for expansion and contraction,
according to the median estimate of 19 economists in a Bloomberg
survey.  -- Editors: Allen Wan, Darren Boey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  