-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise Most in 2012 on EU Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 2012-06-29T22:23:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/emerging-market-stocks-rise-most-in-3-weeks-on-eu-meeting.html
Emerging-market stocks rose the most
in eight months after European leaders agreed to ease repayment
conditions for loans to Spanish banks, boosting demand for
riskier assets.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  jumped 3.4 percent to
937.35 by the close in  New York , the steepest gain since Oct.
27. Energy companies rallied the most since October as  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  surged in Sao Paulo after naming
a new chief executive officer. Brazil’s Bovespa rose 3.2 percent
while Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  added the most in four months. The
 Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Hong Kong-traded Chinese
shares rose by 2.6 percent.  European leaders agreed to drop requirements that
governments receive preferred creditor status on crisis loans to
Spain’s banks and relax conditions on potential help for Italy.
The 21 countries in MSCI’s emerging-market index send about 30
percent of their exports to the European Union on average, data
compiled by the World Trade Organization show.  Consumer spending 
in the U.S. was unchanged.  European authorities “worked really hard and they did make
some progress on a number of important issues, although we are
still far away from what I would call a major breakthrough,
which is ultimately what we need,”  Benoit Anne , head of
emerging-market strategy at  Societe Generale , wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients today. “The most significant development
is probably the tiny steps towards creating a banking rescue
framework at the EU level.”  Quarterly Moves  Brazil, Russia, India and China, the four largest emerging
markets, count the EU as their largest export destination, the
WTO data show.  MSCI’s index of developing nations has  slumped  10 percent
since the end of March.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index has fallen 10 percent
in the quarter, Russia’s Micex Index has declined 8.6 percent
and Brazil’s Bovespa has fallen 16 percent.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  most-traded ETF  tracking developing-nation shares,
added 4.4 percent to $39.14 today.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets   ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 10 percent to 25.79.  Emerging Outflows  Emerging equity funds posted $8.7 billion of outflows in
the second quarter, Citigroup Inc. analysts wrote in a report
today, citing data compiled by EPFR Global.  The Micex Index gained 3.3 percent in Moscow, the biggest
advance since Feb. 24. OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender,
jumped 4.3 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa added 3.2 percent, the most since May 21.
 MMX Mineracao e Metalicos SA  jumped 17 percent after falling to
the lowest since 2009 in Sao Paulo yesterday.  OGX Petroleo, the Brazilian  oil company  owned by
billionaire  Eike Batista , surged 8.9 percent in Sao Paulo. The
company named Luiz Carneiro the new chief executive officer
after a plunge in the shares wiped out $3.8 billion of Batista’s
wealth. Luiz Carneiro will replace Paulo Mendonca, the company
said yesterday in a regulatory filing.  Energy companies  added 4.3 percent, the biggest jump since
Oct. 27.  China, Turkey  China Life Insurance Co. (601628)  jumped 3.3 percent in  Hong Kong 
after China announced plans to support overseas financial
institutions in setting up headquarters in the Qianhai zone at
Shenzhen.  Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS (GARAN) , Turkey’s biggest listed bank,
added 3.2 percent in Istanbul, helping the  ISE National 100
Index (XU100)  advance 2.8 percent to the highest level since April 3.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the largest European-based producer
of copper, climbed 2.1 percent in Warsaw as the industrial metal
rose in  London . The WIG20 Index rose 1.7 percent.  South Africa’s benchmark stocks index was led higher by
miners. The Kospi Index of stocks climbed 1.9 percent in Seoul.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 374, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  