-- EnBW Managers Probed Over Payments to Russia’s Bykov
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-29T13:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/enbw-managers-probed-over-payments-to-russia-s-bykov.html
Seven former and current managers of
 EnBW Energie Baden-Wuerttemberg AG (EBK)  are being investigated over
payments of 59 million euros ($74 million) made to Bykov Group
in Russia.  The suspects are being probed for  tax evasion  and breach of
trust, Peter Lintz, a spokesman for prosecutors in Mannheim,
 Germany , said in an e-mailed statement today. The investigators
are looking at payments and tax declarations from 2001 to 2008.  Today’s case involves Andrey Bykov, a former company
lobbyist, who sued EnBW in January in response to a 120 million-
euro arbitration claim the company filed against him. Earlier
this month, EnBW’s offices were raided in a separate
investigation into allegations employees participated in a tax-
evasion scheme using carbon-emission certificate trading that
cost taxpayers 46 million euros.  EnBW doesn’t know what prompted the prosecutor to open the
investigation, the company said in an e-mailed statement. EnBW
will “constructively” follow the inquiry, it said, adding that
it began its own probe into the Russian activities in 2009.  Bykov is seeking a court ruling declaring that he doesn’t
owe anything to EnBW as the money was paid under sham contracts
initiated by the Karlsruhe, Germany-based company. He claimed he
was hired by EnBW to help acquire stakes in Russian gas fields,
according to a January statement on the website of the regional
court in Karlsruhe.  EU200 Million  Handelsblatt  reported  on June 12 that Bykov sent about 200
million euros to  Russia  through sham EnBW contracts over several
years, citing an interview with him. At least 130 million euros
were used to “forge political relationships” for EnBW.  Half of that money was paid to the Moscow-based  St.
Nicholas Foundation , which used it to support cultural
activities including churches, orchestras and schools to foster
EnBW’s opportunities in Russia, Handelsblatt cited Bykov as
saying. He kept the other 65 million as his pay, according to
the report.  EnBW rejected the allegations in a statement on June 14.
The company started arbitration proceedings against Bykov when
he didn’t fulfill his contractual obligations, EnBW said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  