-- Merkel Outflanked in Crisis Summit as Hollande Backs Italy-Spain
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-29T00:36:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/merkel-outflanked-in-crisis-summit-as-hollande-backs-italy-spain.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
led a rebellion against Germany’s prescriptions for dealing with
the debt crisis, rattling  Europe ’s political system with demands
for immediate relief for hard-hit countries.  Hollande put French endorsement of a German-inspired
deficit-control treaty on hold, and  Italy  and  Spain  withheld
approval of a 120 billion-euro ($149 billion) growth-boosting
package unless Germany authorizes steps to calm their bond
markets.  By provoking an open breach with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , the new French leader overturned the austerity-first
consensus that has dominated the debt-crisis response and risked
fracturing the Berlin-Paris alliance that built the European
Union and euro.  “We now need to have a stability policy in order to
support the countries that took some efforts,” Hollande told
reporters early today at a summit in Brussels, the 19th since
the crisis erupted. “Stability measures should be a priority
before any other consideration.”  As the top-level talks dragged on, a group of senior
officials from national finance ministries grappled with whether
to use the bond-buying powers of the bloc’s bailout funds to try
to trim Italy’s 10-year yields from 6.20 percent and Spain’s
from 6.94 percent.  Euro Chiefs  Leaders of the 10 EU countries outside the euro streamed
out of the summit headquarters around 1 a.m., leaving the 17
euro chiefs to deliberate into the early hours. Hollande said
German concessions would determine whether he assents to the
deficit-reduction pact, which was endorsed by his predecessor
 Nicolas Sarkozy , by the time the summit ends later today.  “Two countries feel very strongly about reaching an
agreement on long and short-term measures,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said late yesterday. “The discussion isn’t blocked,
but continues.”  With global powers from the U.S. to  China  calling for
Europe to take decisive steps, the clash added to doubts whether
the euro’s custodians can muster the will to use what  Van Rompuy 
dubbed “better fire-brigade equipment” when the anti-crisis
tools were strengthened last year.  “Incremental” policies no longer work, Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , the longest-serving Group of Seven
finance chief, said yesterday in Galway, Ireland. European
leaders must “quickly begin to implement the bold actions that
they understand are needed.”  Italian Debt  Beset with the euro area’s second-highest debt load at
120.1 percent of gross domestic product, Italy yesterday paid
the most since December to sell 10-year bonds. Italian yields
have jumped 50 basis points since Spain requested bank aid on
June 9 amid concern that Italy is next in line.  Spanish Premier  Mariano Rajoy  has appealed that aid be
channeled directly to the troubled lenders, while Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti  argues that Italy’s debt is a legacy of
policy mistakes in the 1970s and 1980s. He says his government’s
steps such as a labor-market reform passed this week will
generate the growth and tax receipts to pay it down.  Monti, a non-partisan former European Commission official
who was appointed prime minister last year, said Italy’s deficit
cuts and surplus before interest costs make it worthy of a
European backstop.  “If the public opinion sees that bad signals, not good
signals are coming back from the markets, well then people might
be discouraged and political forces which say let European
integration, let the euro, let this or that country go to hell
might prevail,” Monti said on the eve of the summit.  German Weight  As Europe’s dominant economy,  Germany  can control the use
of the aid funds: the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, set up in 2010, and the European Stability Mechanism,
a permanent fund to be phased in starting next month.  German lawmakers vote later today on both the ESM and the
fiscal pact that set down new EU budget rules, leaving Merkel
little room to maneuver.  While 500 billion euros in fresh money is available, the
euro zone has already pledged as much as 100 billion euros to
recapitalize Spain’s banks and another 10 billion euros for
Cyprus. Those programs would bring to five the number of
countries tapping European assistance.  Watching from the sidelines is the  European Central Bank ,
which bought 219.5 billion euros of ailing countries’ bonds
until suspending the purchases in February under pressure from
German representatives on its policy council.  No Merkozy  France ’s Hollande stood with the struggling countries on
the periphery, breaking with the close coordination between
France and Germany that marked the first two years of the crisis
that was spawned in  Greece  in 2009 and gave rise to the team of
“Merkozy” -- Sarkozy and Merkel.  “Monti and Rajoy had warned me about the positions they
were planning to take,” Hollande said as chiefs from the euro
bloc began meeting during, the second summit since his election
in May and the first since legislative balloting gave his
Socialist party a majority in France’s parliament. “They
believed, and I understand them, that they could not give a
partial agreement but a global accord.”  Hollande was a driving force behind the growth package,
which includes a 10 billion-euro capital boost for the  European
Investment Bank , the EU’s project-financing arm. Some existing
EU subsidies will be retargeted and EU guarantees will be used
for private bond issues to finance transport and construction
projects .  While the new French government strayed from the German
line, Merkel wasn’t alone. She counted  Finland  and the
Netherlands, two other countries that have retained top credit
ratings, as allies amid taxpayer unease with further bailouts.  “It’s difficult to find any miracles because we have our
rules and we have to stick to them,” Finnish Prime Minister
 Jyrki Katainen  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Brussels at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  