-- Merkel Allies Hail German Parliament’s Voice in Euro Bank Aid
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-06-29T13:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/merkel-praised-by-ally-for-preventing-euro-bonds-at-eu-summit.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel’s allies in
Berlin praised the German leader for ensuring parliament’s right
to approve any direct aid to troubled euro-region banks and
resisting euro bonds at an overnight European Union summit.  “It’s clear that the immediate recapitalization of banks
in  Spain  isn’t possible on the basis of today’s bundle of
bills,”  Norbert Barthle , the budget spokesman in parliament for
Merkel’s Christian Union bloc, said in an e-mailed statement in
reference to laws being voted on in both houses of the German
parliament today. It would “represent a new aid instrument of
the ESM that would have to be backed by the plenary of the
German Bundestag.”  Decisions by EU leaders in Brussels won’t affect the vote
in parliament on backing the future euro region financial
backstop, the European Stability Mechanism, and the fiscal pact
on budget discipline, said Barthle. The parliament of Germany,
Europe’s biggest economy and biggest paymaster to troubled euro-
region governments and banks, is reasserting its role in
approving aid in the crisis now in its third year.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union general secretary,
Hermann Groehe, said the chancellor had fended off demands at
the Brussels summit to accept euro bonds.  “The decisive point is that there have been massive
attempts in the past days to achieve shared liability,” Groehe
said on ZDF television. “The fact that  Angela Merkel , supported
by other countries, successfully averted that is good for
Germany as a stability anchor and good for Europe.”  Spanish Banks  The bills to be passed by both chambers would not allow the
ESM to recapitalize Spanish banks directly, Barthle said. The
law would have to be amended in such an event to guarantee the
German parliament’s right to have a say in decisions, he said.  Barthle rejected a call by an opposition Social Democratic
lawmaker to postpone the votes in parliament. He dismissed
concerns by SPD budget spokesman Carsten Schneider that the
summit results created too many unknowns for lawmakers to allow
them to vote today.  An agreement on aid to banks tracked  Germany ’s view that
shared control must precede shared liability, Groehe said.
Direct aid to banks will only come after European supervision
has been established, he said.  The comments suggest that Merkel will get her party’s
backing in the parliamentary votes on the ESM and fiscal pact.  Merkel Speech  Merkel is scheduled to address the lower house of
parliament, the Bundestag, at 5 p.m. Berlin time before
lawmakers vote on the bills.  Merkel needs two-thirds majorities in the lower house of
parliament and the upper house, the Bundesrat, where Germany’s
16 federal states are represented. Her ruling bloc has to rely
on the support of the opposition SPD and Greens in both houses.  The summit results “are right for  Europe ” and will help
Europe emerge from its crisis, Torsten Albig, the SPD prime
minister in the state of Schleswig-Holstein, said this morning
on ZDF television, suggesting the biggest opposition party will
back Merkel.  Germany benefits more than any other country from the EU
and without “solidarity” with Italy and Spain, Germany will
face difficulties, Albig said.  The leaders in Brussels approved a 120 billion-euro ($152
billion) growth-boosting package the SPD and the Greens had said
is a precondition for their support in parliament.  Merkel’s CDU and its Bavarian Christian Social Union sister
party on June 26 passed the two legislative items in trial votes
in Berlin with a broad majority. The ESM was passed by the 237-
strong caucus with 11 “no” votes and 1 abstention, while the
fiscal pact passed with three “no” votes and 1 abstention.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  