-- Merkel’s Compromise Could Save the Euro
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-29T15:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/merkel-s-compromise-means-euro-might-yet-survive.html
A minor miracle has occurred in
Brussels:  Germany  has signaled that it may be willing to do what
it takes to save the euro.  Now the question is whether Europe’s leaders can show
enough money to back their words.  In negotiations that lasted through the night, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  agreed to allow Europe’s permanent
bailout fund -- the European Stability Mechanism -- to provide
capital directly to troubled banks anywhere in the euro area.  If the deal sticks, Germany and the other governments of
the currency union will accept joint liability for rescuing one
another’s banks -- an option that, on the eve of the meeting,
Merkel had vowed not to consider. In return, as part of a
broader banking union, governments will cede to European
authorities, probably including the  European Central Bank , the
power to oversee, punish and dismantle banks. The agreement also
eases austerity measures and allows for direct bond purchases to
reduce the borrowing costs of struggling governments, including
Italy and  Spain .  It’s hard to overstate the significance of what happened in
Brussels. By providing an added backstop for banks whose assets
often dwarf the economies of individual sovereigns, and by
offering financial support for those sovereigns, the deal has
the potential to break the debilitating link between the
troubles of banks and the solvency of governments. By pooling
resources and authority, it represents an important step toward
the kind of political union needed to make the euro area viable.  Markets Rallying  Markets are rallying on the news. Spanish 10-year bond
yields, which had been approaching 7 percent, fell to less than
6.5 percent. Italian bond yields crossed back below 6 percent.  The deal could yet run into snags, and remains a far cry
from what’s needed to end the crisis. For one,  Europe ’s leaders
still seem to think they have plenty of time. They’re aiming to
complete the supervisory part of the banking union by the end of
this year. Until they achieve that, direct recapitalizations of
banks can’t happen, and Spain will remain on the hook for a
banking bailout that could cost 100 billion euros or more. If
negotiations on details get bogged down, a paralyzed banking
system will undermine economic growth and political stability,
making the sovereigns’ predicament even more precarious.  More important, European governments’ commitment to mutual
aid is limited to the capacity of its two bailout funds. Taken
together, the funds have no more than 500 billion euros
available to buy bonds and recapitalize banks, according to
Bloomberg. That may be enough to cover banks’ capital needs, but
falls far short of the 2.4 trillion euros in Spanish and Italian
debt outstanding.  Europe’s leaders will need to display more firepower if
they want markets to trust in their allegiance to the common
currency. The least bad approach, as Bloomberg View has
 advocated , would be for the ECB to pledge whatever resources are
needed to support recapitalizations and the financing of solvent
governments. If the commitment is large enough to restore
confidence, the money probably won’t need to be deployed:
Markets will provide financing on their own, and governments can
get on with fixing their finances, restoring competitiveness and
crafting the kinds of risk-sharing mechanisms -- such as jointly
backed euro bonds -- required to complete the currency union.  Success still depends on Merkel and Germany. They’ve taken
a crucial step in the right direction. Lest the effort be
wasted, they’ll have to take the plunge.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  John Roberts saved
Obamacare  and why  Mexico ’s next president  must combat its
economic cartels ; Stephen L. Carter in praise of  Supreme Court
secrecy ;  Noah Feldman  on  Roberts’s restraint ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
 misunderstanding the court ’s decision;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on
whether  women can have it all ; William Pesek on  Myanmar’s
economic development ;  Jonathan Weil  on how the  Bank for
International Settlements   sees the industry ;  Steven Greenhut  on
using eminent domain to  take over foreclosed homes .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 