-- EU Accord on Spain Offers Opportunity to Sell: Analysts’ Comment
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-29T09:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-accord-on-spain-offers-opportunity-to-sell-analysts-comment.html
Currency and fixed-income analysts
comment on the agreement by European leaders to relax conditions
on emergency loans for Spanish banks and possible help for
 Italy , following talks that ended at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels.  Spanish and Italian bonds rallied and the euro strengthened
by the most this year. The comments were collected in interviews
and investor reports today.  Kit Juckes, head of currency research at Societe Generale SA in
London:  “The measures are enough for short-covering but this is
not a game changer. Removing seniority for bailout funds is
really good and especially good for Spanish bonds but it’s not
going to fully restore international confidence in European bond
markets. Direct funding of bank bailouts removes some of the
strain on governments but doesn’t give us growth.  “In the  currency market  this isn’t enough to break out of
the ranges. If the euro spends much time around $1.26 without
breaking higher people will come in next week and think about
going short again.”  Padhraic Garvey, head of developed debt markets at ING Groep NV
in Amsterdam:  “Market expectations from the summit were low but the fact
that we have some concrete plans is positive. The deal on non-
seniority for Spanish bailout loans is also a nod in the right
direction.  “There is also the implicit threat” that the European
Financial Stability Facility and European Stability Mechanism
“will come in and buy  government bonds ,” he said. “This won’t
happen today with the periphery rallying. If they do come in
they need to do it in style. The authorities will wait until
they have the next big explosion in spreads.”  Christoph Rieger, head of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank
AG in Frankfurt:  “The surprising element is the immediate utilization of
EFSF/ESM, which aims to keep Spanish and Italian yields in
check. The reference to the ECB ‘serving as agent to EFSF/ESM’
in conducting market operations suggests that the measures are
supposed to involve mainly secondary market interventions. Hopes
about such intervention should give near-term relief to
peripheral yields, with spreads to bunds tightening.  “It should not be too long, however, until market
participants will begin to contemplate the limitations of this
approach. First, unlike the  European Central Bank , the EFSF/ESM
do not have the means to intervene in size.  “We thus expect another round of EU summit relief to ensue
this morning. Unless some of the key limitations are quickly
addressed in a convincing manner, however, such relief should be
used to sell. In the longer-run, these decisions will accelerate
the introduction of the euro bond via the back door.”  Derek Halpenny, European head of global markets research at Bank
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in London:  “Crucially there is nothing in regard to the size of
firewalls in place. As the European day unfolds there may be
increased concerns over reaching agreement on a ‘single
supervisory mechanism.’ This may sound easy enough on paper but
involves national governments ceding control of its banking
sector to a European body -- a sovereignty issue that will not
be easily agreed.  “These agreements do at least offer scope for some near-
term recovery in risk assets. Expectations will now be high that
either today or next week, the ECB as agent to the EFSF will
begin purchasing Italian and Spanish debt.  “The ‘growth plan’ and an ECB rate cut next week -- which
we expect -- may help lift optimism for a period. However, our
initial view is this deal is no game-changer and any euro-dollar
rally will simply offer attractive levels to sell.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  