-- EU Bonuses, Ice Trade Vault, Barclays: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-29T12:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-bonuses-ice-trade-vault-barclays-compliance.html
Senior hedge-fund and private-equity
managers face longer waits for bonuses under proposals from the
European Union’s top markets regulator.  Bonuses for risk-taking employees should be withheld for a
certain length of time to align managers’ interests with the
long-term performance of the fund, the European Securities and
Markets Authority said yesterday. Staff with the “most material
impact on the risk profile” of the fund should be subject to
longer retention periods, ESMA said without specifying how long.  Payouts for managers at financial firms have been under
scrutiny from regulators and lawmakers since the fall of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. European finance ministers in
2010 approved a law, known as the Alternative Investment Fund
Managers Directive, which gave ESMA power to set rules for hedge
funds and private-equity firms, regulating their pay and access
to EU investors. Member states have until July 2013 to implement
the directive.  National authorities should judge whether the bonus
retention periods proposed by hedge funds and private equity
firms are sufficient, ESMA said.  Hedge funds and private-equity firms have until Sept. 27 to
comment on ESMA’s proposals. Firms should also avoid paying
bonuses from a pool of capital if their “financial situation
would no longer be sound,” the regulator said.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Consumer Bureau Issues Rule on Attorney-Client Privilege  The U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a
final rule under which it pledges to honor attorney-client
privilege when it shares information from banks with other
federal and state agencies.  In January, the bureau advised banks that it supervises --
those with more than $10 billion in assets -- that giving CFPB
information doesn’t waive any associated privilege. The rule
states that privilege also remains intact if the bureau shares
information with other federal or state agencies, it said in the
statement.  Bank lawyers have argued that the CFPB could obtain
information covered by attorney-client privilege and share it
with other officials, notably state attorneys general. The
bureau isn’t covered by a 2006 law that requires other
regulators such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. to
respect this privilege.  India Proposes Monetary Threshold to Invoke Tax Avoidance Rules  India’s  Central Board of Direct Taxes  has recommended a
monetary threshold to avoid the indiscriminate application of
the general anti-tax avoidance rules, it said in a statement.  The board also recommended against invoking the anti-tax
avoidance rules for foreign institutional investors who refrain
from using overseas tax shelters to invest in the South Asian
nation, according to the statement.  The anti-tax avoidance rules will be effective from April
1, 2013, according to the statement.  Compliance Action  CFTC Approves ICE Application for Dodd-Frank Swap Database  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission granted
provisional registration to Intercontinental Exchange Inc.’s
information database on interest rate, credit and other swaps as
the first swap-data repository required under the Dodd-Frank
Act.  The approval of  ICE Trade Vault LLC  was announced by the
Washington-based agency in an e-mail statement yesterday.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory law enacted in 2010, called for
the databases to increase swaps market transparency after
largely unregulated trades helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  FSA Reaches Agreement with Banks on Derivatives Probe  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Britain’s two other biggest banks will compensate small and
medium-sized businesses improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives following a probe by the U.K. financial regulator.  The four lenders, including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , will also stop selling interest rate collars
to retail customers as part of a settlement with the Financial
Services Authority, the regulator said in a statement today.
While the FSA found “serious failings” by the banks dating
back to 2001, it stopped short of fining the firms. Banks
offered derivatives to small business and individual customers
on concern that they might not be able to service loans if
floating rates rose.  The compensation plan is the second blow in a week to an
industry already under investigation for attempting to rig
global interest rates.  The FSA didn’t say how much the banks could have to spend
to compensate customers. Sixteen financial firms paid
1.9 billion pounds ($3 billion) in 2011 after the FSA found they
improperly sold clients payment-protection insurance. Hector
Sants, the regulator’s chief executive officer, said in a speech
last year that customers may receive as much as
9 billion pounds as a result of the PPI probe.  Companies made about 605 complaints last year over banks’
bundling of interest-rate swaps with loans, FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said in a letter to lawmakers last month. The London-
based watchdog initially didn’t see any “widespread, underlying
issues” with the practice and instructed firms to review their
sales systems, Turner said.  For more, click here.  SEC Might Demand Nasdaq Trading Systems Upgrade, WSJ Reports  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission may force
 Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  to upgrade its trading systems after
technical problems marred Facebook Inc.’s initial public
offering, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing people
familiar with the investigation.  Regulators may tell the exchange to improve how its
computers handle share sales and other functions, the Journal
reported. The regulator hasn’t decided whether any enforcement
action is necessary after the May 18 trading mishaps, the report
said. The request could add to costs for the company, the
Journal said.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment. One
after-hours phone call and two e-mails to Nasdaq spokesmen
weren’t immediately returned.  Courts  Obama’s Health-Care Overhaul Upheld by U.S. Supreme Court  The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the core of President Barack
Obama’s health-care overhaul, giving him an election-year
triumph and preserving most of a law that would expand insurance
to millions of people and transform an industry that makes up 18
percent of the nation’s economy.  The justices, voting 5-4, said Congress has the power to
make Americans carry insurance or pay a penalty. That
requirement is at the center of the law, which also forces
insurers to cover people with pre-existing health conditions.
The court limited the law’s extension of the Medicaid program
for the poor by saying the federal government can’t threaten to
withhold existing money from states that don’t fully comply.  Chief Justice  John Roberts , writing for the court, said
Congress had the authority to impose the insurance requirement
under its power to levy taxes. Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony
Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  dissented, saying they
would have struck down the entire statute.  Among the majority, Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg and  Sonia
Sotomayor  voted to uphold the entire statute. Justices Stephen
Breyer and Elena Kagan agreed with Roberts in limiting the
Medicaid expansion.  From the beginning, the law divided the public, with
opposition fueling the Tea Party movement and helping produce
the 2010 Republican takeover of the House. A Bloomberg National
Poll conducted in March found that 37 percent of respondents
said the law should be repealed, 11 percent said it should be
left alone and 46 percent said it may need small modifications.  For more, click here.  Daimler Resignation May Be Inside Information, Court Says  A former  Daimler AG (DAI)  executive’s plan to resign may have
been inside information that was wrongly concealed from
shareholders, the European Union’s top court said in a ruling
that may force companies to review disclosure rules.  The European Court of Justice in Luxembourg ruled on a
shareholder lawsuit that claims the automaker didn’t disclose
Juergen Schrempp’s 2005 resignation as chief executive officer
as quickly as it should have. A final decision on the case must
be made by German courts.  Daimler, the world’s third-largest maker of luxury cars,
was fined by German financial regulator BaFin in 2007 for
failing to disclose Schrempp was leaving before its board
decided he should go. Daimler shares surged as high as 42.95
euros on the news, according to a court filing, and shareholders
who sold before the announcement are seeking compensation.  Daimler said the court backed its argument that the
definition of inside information shouldn’t rely on whether a
future event may affect the share price, said Ute Wuest von
Vellberg, a spokeswoman for the Stuttgart, Germany-based
company.  ‘It’s decisive whether it can really be expected that the
event or circumstance will occur in the future,’’ Wuest von
Vellberg said. “It remains to be seen how Germany’s Federal
Court of Justice will decide on the basis of the European Court
of Justice decision.”  Germany’s Federal Court of Justice, the country’s highest
civil tribunal, is examining an appeal and asked for the EU
court’s advice.  The case is  C-19/11  Markus Geltl v Daimler AG.  Special Section: Libor Probe  Barclays Ordered to Address Libor Probe Impact on 2010 Agreement  Barclays Plc and the U.S. Justice Department were ordered
by a federal judge to explain how the bank’s settlement of
allegations involving its manipulation of Libor should effect a
2010 deferred prosecution agreement.  U.S. District Judge  Emmet Sullivan  in Washington yesterday
issued the one-sentence order calling for a joint report to be
filed by July 11. The order came three days after lawyers for
both parties were in his courtroom for an update on the 2010
agreement, which involves a $298 million settlement with the
U.S. over illegal dealings with such nations as Sudan and Iran.  Barclays Plc was on June 27 fined 290 million pounds
($451.4 million), by regulators in the U.S. and U.K. after
admitting it submitted false London and euro interbank offered
rates. Part of that fine went to the Justice Department, which
agreed not to prosecute the bank for what it called “illegal
conduct.”  Mark Lane , a spokesman for London-based Barclays, declined
to comment on the order. Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department
spokeswoman, said she couldn’t immediately comment yesterday.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, must
comply with the terms of the deferred prosecution agreement,
which was approved by the judge on Aug. 18, 2010, until Aug. 16.
Such agreements allow a company to avoid a criminal conviction
as long as the terms of the deal are met.  The case is U.S. v. Barclays Bank Plc, 10-cr-00218, U.S.
District Court, District of Columbia (Washington).  U.K.’s Hoban Says Libor Rules Need Criminal Sanctions  U.K.  Treasury  Secretary  Mark Hoban  discussed Barclays Plc’s
role in manipulating Libor.  He talked from London with Linzie Janis on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  For the video, click here.  Chen Says Potential Libor Lawsuits to Dwarf Bank Fines  Sandy Chen, a banking analyst at  Cenkos Securities Plc (CNKS) ,
talked about the potential impact of lawsuits arising from the
global investigation into interest-rate manipulation.  He spoke with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word.”  For more, click here.  Barclays CEO Diamond Becomes Political Target Over Libor  Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond has
become the target of the Conservative-led coalition after the
bank this week was fined 290 million pounds ($450 million) for
attempting to manipulate the inter-bank lending rate, known as
Libor.  Newspapers urged Diamond to quit and in a press conference
today, Bank of England Governor Mervyn King added his voice,
calling for “a real change in the culture of the industry” and
“leadership of an unusually high order.”  The scandal doesn’t just threaten Diamond’s job. It has
wiped out his efforts in 2011 to make the case for the finance
industry in the wake of the credit crunch that plunged much of
the world into recession. Instead, Parliament heard calls for
prosecutions of those involved in the latest revelations.  For more, click here.  Osborne Pledges to Pursue Criminal Probe, Consider Taxpayers  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said Britain’s
financial regulator is looking at whether it can bring criminal
charges over the attempt by banks to manipulate the inter-bank
lending rate, or Libor, as he promised new laws to prevent
market abuse.  Osborne said he couldn’t comment whether there are plans to
prosecute executives at Barclays Plc or other banks after the
London-based lender was fined $451 million for attempting to
manipulate Libor. The Financial Services Authority will “use
every power available to them,” he said.  Osborne made the remarks to lawmakers in London yesterday.  Bringing criminal charges “is absolutely what the
authorities are looking at,” he said. Serious Fraud Office
investigators are in talks with the FSA over the rate-rigging
scandal, Osborne said.  For more, click here.  Separately, Osborne said the U.K. is examining whether the
fine paid by Barclays can be channeled to taxpayers rather than
going into a fund that reduces the amount other banks have to
pay in case of wrongdoing.  “We are specifically looking at whether this fine can go
to the taxpayer,” Osborne told lawmakers in Parliament
yesterday.  Cameron Presses Barclays CEO With Call for Accountability  Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  was
urged by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  to show
accountability after the bank was fined $451 million for
attempting to manipulate the inter-bank lending rate, known as
Libor.  “I’m determined we learn all the lessons from what has
happened at Barclays,” Cameron told reporters as he arrived in
Brussels for a European Union summit. “People have to take
responsibility for the actions and show how they’re going to be
accountable for those actions. It’s very important that goes all
the way to the top of the organization.”  Barclays, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, said
June 27 that Diamond and three other executives will forgo their
bonuses this year.  Business Secretary  Vince Cable , a Liberal Democrat who has
been a critic of the bonus culture at banks, said the government
could remove Diamond if he fails to provide adequate answers
about his organization’s practices.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  