-- EU Extends Probe of Hutchison’s Orange Austria Takeover
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-06-29T13:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-extends-probe-of-hutchison-s-orange-austria-takeover.html
The European Commission opened a
full antitrust probe into  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s planned 1.3
billion-euro ($1.6 billion) purchase of rival mobile-phone
operator Orange Austria on concern it may reduce competition.  The Commission, the European Union regulator in Brussels,
said in a statement today that the proposed acquisition of
Orange Austria from  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and Mid Europa Partners
may create problems by removing a competitor. The move comes a
day after an Austrian probe into a side deal of the Orange
purchase also went to the next stage.  “The merger will reduce the number of network operators
from four to three in Austria,” EU Competition Commissioner
 Joaquin Almunia  said in the statement. “Therefore, the
commission must make sure that this concentration does not lead
to higher prices for end consumers.”  Hutchison’s 3 Austria is the smallest wireless operator in
the country of 8.2 million people, where it competes with
Orange,  Telekom Austria  AG and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile.
That’s the same number of network carriers as in northern
neighbor  Germany , with a population of 82 million.  “In mobile, Austria remains one of the most competitive
markets, with pricing in steep decline that is showing no signs
of slowing,” Barclays analysts in  London  led by Jonathan Dann
wrote in a note today.  Approval Confidence  Hutchison said in a statement that the Orange purchase
would benefit customers and that it remained confident the
European Commission will approve the deal. “While this is a
complex transaction which involves process with numerous
parties, the combined business will put 3 Austria in a better
position to challenge the incumbent operators,” it said.  The company controlled by Hong Kong billionaire  Li Ka-shing 
agreed to buy Orange in February. Hutchison is Li’s biggest
company, with investments in telecommunications, ports, energy,
retail and utilities in more than 50 countries.  Austria’s competition authority yesterday extended the
probe of a side deal to the Orange purchase, in which Telekom
Austria plans to buy about 700,000 clients using Orange via the
discount brand Yesss!. That probe will be prolonged by at least
five months after Telekom Austria and Yesss! failed to “dispel
concerns” on the deal, the watchdog said.  Telekom Austria may drop the deal because it isn’t willing
to make concessions to the regulator, WirtschaftsBlatt reported
today, citing unidentified people familiar with the deal. This
may reduce the price of the main transaction to 1.1 billion
euros, the newspaper said.  Telekom  Austria  still wants buy the Yesss! clients as long
as the conditions for the acquisition are acceptable, spokesman
Alexander Kleedorfer said in an e-mail. Olivier Emberger, a
France Telecom spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  