-- EU Leaders Ease Debt-Crisis Rules on Spain
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-06-29T11:03:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-leaders-ease-debt-crisis-rules-for-spain-as-merkel-retreats.html
Euro-area leaders agreed to relax
conditions on emergency loans for Spanish banks and possible
help for Italy as an outflanked German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
gave in on expanded steps to stem the debt crisis.  After 13 1/2 hours of talks ending at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
today, chiefs of the 17 euro countries dropped the requirement
that taxpayers get preferred creditor status on aid to  Spain ’s
blighted banks. They also opened the way to recapitalizing
lenders directly with bailout funds once  Europe  sets up a single
banking supervisor. Stocks and bonds in Spain and Italy surged
and the euro rallied.  The politicians struggled for consensus on reducing market
pressure as surging borrowing costs in Italy and Spain stoked
concern among investors and policy makers around the world that
the currency union threatened to splinter and risk damaging the
global economy. Euro governments were granted access to rescue
loans without having to relinquish control of their economies.  “We agreed on short-term measures that should apply to
Spain and  Italy ,” said Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker, who heads the group of euro finance ministers. “We
will keep all options open to do the interventions that need to
be done to calm the situation. There is a whole array of
possible interventions and measures.”  Make-or-Break  The gathering marked at least the fourth time in the past
year that the guardians of the euro faced a make-or-break summit
to restore confidence in their currency bloc. They have
struggled so far in vain to contain the financial crisis that
began in  Greece  in 2009. The turmoil claimed its fifth victim
this week when Cyprus sought a bailout.  The euro surged 1.1 percent to $1.2575 at 12:30 p.m. in
Brussels. The MSCI World Index rose 1 percent. Yields on Spanish
and Italian debt plunged on optimism the summit deal represented
progress in turning the tide. Finance ministers will aim to
enact the agreement at a meeting on July 9, European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said, calling the accord a
“breakthrough.”  It was the first policy-making summit that Merkel faced
without  France ’s Nicolas Sarkozy as her crisis-fighting partner.
New French President  Francois Hollande  led a rebellion against
her austerity-first prescriptions with calls for immediate
relief for hard-hit countries.  Countering Germany  “Relative to the gloomy expectations just prior to the
summit, and at around midnight as the summit progressed, more
was achieved than was widely expected,” David Mackie, chief
European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a
note. “Nevertheless, this is still a long journey we are on,
and it will be bumpy at times.”  Hollande put French backing of a German-inspired deficit-
control treaty on hold, and Italy and Spain withheld initial
approval of a 120 billion-euro ($149 billion) growth- boosting
package until  Germany  authorized steps to calm their bond
markets.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  welcomed the result,
saying the agreement to consider short-term steps to ease
borrowing costs “could be useful to Italy and many other
states, too.” Hollande said there was “no blackmail, no
pressure” from Italy and Spain.  Monti didn’t get everything he wanted, Dutch Prime Minister
 Mark Rutte , a Merkel ally, told reporters. Italy “wanted direct
bond buying by the aid funds in the secondary market,” he said.
“That’s not going to happen. They wanted an interest-rate cap.
That’s not going to happen either.”  No Debate  Germany had previously balked at changing the order of
seniority on as much as 100 billion euros in emergency loans to
Spanish banks and at committing to direct sovereign-debt buying
through the euro-area bailout funds, saying on June 21 that such
a move is “not up for debate.”  At the summit, euro-area leaders agreed to use the rescue
funds “in a flexible and efficient manner in order to stabilize
markets for  member states ” that respect rules including budget-
deficit limits and sign a memorandum of understanding, according
to an EU statement issued in Brussels.  Even so, the EU’s two rescue funds may only amount to about
20 percent of the outstanding debt of Italy and Spain, limiting
the ability to lower the nations’ borrowing costs.  The rescue mechanisms, the European Financial Stability
Facility and the yet-to-start ESM, may have 500 billion euros
available for purchases. Italy and Spain have about 2.4 trillion
euros combined of outstanding bonds, bills and loans, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Wrong, Counterproductive’  Pooling of euro-area debt, a tool sought by Spain and Italy
that Merkel called “wrong and counterproductive” in a speech
to German lawmakers a day before the summit, wasn’t mentioned in
the statement. Merkel will explain the deal to the German
parliament upon her return to Berlin today before a vote on new
EU budget rules and authorization of the ESM.  A German official briefing reporters on the condition of
anonymity noted that the Parliament in Berlin gets to approve
changes in the ESM’s setup, such as allowing direct bank
recapitalizations.  “Our formula hasn’t changed,” Merkel told reporters as
she arrived for day two of the summit. “I think we have taken
some important decisions, but we remain true to our philosophy
of no help without something in return.”  ‘Vicious Circle’  Euro-area leaders are determined to “break the vicious
circle between banks and sovereigns” in the debt crisis and
will present proposals for joint bank supervision “shortly,”
according to the statement.  Once an “effective” system is set up, the ESM could,
“following a regular decision, have the possibility to
recapitalize banks directly,” according to the statement.  Spain’s Mariano Rajoy sought that condition to avoid taking
on additional sovereign debt. He also wanted his official
creditors to give up their preferred creditor status in case of
default, a step resisted by Germany that helped send Spanish
yields higher.  Spain’s 10-year yields exceeded 7 percent yesterday and
Italy auctioned 10-year notes at 6.19 percent, the highest yield
since December. Germany borrows at 1.5 percent for the same time
period.  Relief may not be quick as joint EU banking supervision,
seen as a way to make oversight more independent of national
regulators, will take time. The EU will consider proposals “by
the end of 2012,” according to the statement.  “If you think in terms of, not the short term, of days and
weeks, but in terms of sustainability over the medium term, then
this will achieve the desired effect,”  Thomas Wieser , head of
the group that prepares meetings of euro-area finance ministers
and that drafted the  summit statement , told reporters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  