-- EU Chiefs Reach Agreement on Patent System, Van Rompuy Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-29T15:21:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-leaders-reach-agreement-on-eu-patent-system-van-rompuy-says.html
European Union leaders cleared the
final hurdle to an agreement on a common patent system, paving
the way for improved and cheaper enforcement of intellectual-
property rights.  “After 30 years of discussions on a European patent, we
reached an agreement on the last outstanding issue, the seat of
the Unified Patent Court,” EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
today in Brussels after a two-day summit of European leaders.  The U.K.,  France  and  Germany  each had lobbied to be the
host of the seat of the court. The final compromise splits the
court among the three nations.  The seat of the court’s central division, along with the
office of the court’s president, would be located in Paris,
while other departments dealing in more specialized work will be
based in  London  and Munich. The first president of the court
should come from France, the leaders said.  “The stalemate has been broken and that is a good thing,”
said Geert Glas, head of the intellectual-property practice at
law firm Allen & Overy LLP. “With a central seat in Paris, the
unitary court has a good chance to combine the best practices of
the common-law -- U.K. -- and civil-law -- Germany --
traditions.”  Creating a lower-cost European patent is one of several
reforms that could aid innovation and economic growth, EU
Internal Market Commissioner  Michel Barnier  said on May 16.
Under the current system, companies can pay as much as 18,000
euros ($22,600) for a patent valid in only 13 countries,
including 10,000 euros for translation, according to the
European Commission.  135,000 Patents  The number of patents filed in the EU lags far behind other
parts of the world, Barnier said. Some 135,000 patents were
filed with the European Patents Office in 2009, compared with
459,000 in the U.S., 348,000 in  Japan  and 315,000 in  China .  The EU said today that the common system “will bring down
patent litigation costs for businesses significantly.” The
European Commission has calculated that, with the single court,
litigation expenses incurred by European companies can be
reduced by about 289 million euros a year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  