-- EU’s Almunia Says Libor, Euribor Collusion Probe Is Top Priority
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-06-29T16:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/eu-s-almunia-says-libor-euribor-collusion-probe-is-top-priority.html
Libor and Euribor rate-manipulation
antitrust probes are a “top priority,” European Union
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said today.  The EU probe, opened last year, focuses on possible
collusion between financial institutions that may have violated
antitrust rules, while investigations by regulators in other
jurisdictions are concerned with fraud, Almunia said in an e-
mailed statement.  “We are looking at the possible collusion between
financial institutions that should compete with each other,”
Almunia said. “I am deeply worried about what the documents
made public may reveal about the conduct of some in the
sector.”  His comments come two days after  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s
second-biggest bank by assets, was fined $451 million by the
U.K. Financial Services Authority, the U.S. Justice Department
and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission after
admitting it submitted false Libor rates to benefit derivatives
trades.  Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
ICAP Plc, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG are
among the firms some of the regulators are investigating. A
total of 18 banks are surveyed as part of the process of
determining London interbank offered rate, or Libor, and related
rates. Euribor is a related euro-denominated rate.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 