-- European Stocks Climb for a Fourth Week on EU Agreement
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-29T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/european-stocks-climb-for-a-fourth-week-on-eu-agreement.html
European stocks  rose for a fourth
week as the region’s leaders agreed to address flaws in their
bailout programs to ease the sovereign-debt crisis.  CRH Plc rallied 12 percent, leading a gauge of construction
companies to the biggest gain in six months.  Colruyt NV (COLR)  jumped
16 percent as  Belgium ’s biggest discount food retailer reported
a surprise increase in profit.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  slumped 19 percent
after paying a record fine to settle claims it sought to rig the
London and euro interbank offered rates.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  climbed 1.9 percent to 251.17
this past week, extending the longest stretch of gains since
January, after policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish
banks, relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy  and unveiled
a $149 billion economic growth plan. The advance pushed the
measure to the highest level since May 11 and trimmed the
second-quarter decline to 4.6 percent.  “The results were as good as we could have expected from
the summit,” said Derry Pickford, who helps oversee $1.7
billion at Ashburton Ltd. in  Jersey , the  Channel Islands .
“There are two important caveats: expectations were very low
and the measures are short-term analgesics rather than
fundamental cures.”  National benchmark indexes climbed in all 18 western
European markets this week. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 1
percent,  France ’s CAC 40 rose 3.4 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
added 2.4 percent. Norway’s  OBX (OBX)  surged 5.9 percent for the
biggest gain this year.  Monthly Rally  The Stoxx 600 rallied 4.8 percent this month, the most
since October. The increase brought the index’s advance in the
first half of 2012 to 2.7 percent.  After 13 1/2 hours of talks ending at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
yesterday, leaders of the 17 euro nations dropped the
requirement that governments get preferred-creditor status on
crisis loans to  Spain ’s banks and opened the door to
recapitalizing lenders directly with bailout funds once Europe
sets up a single banking supervisor. They also discussed
reducing the market pressure on Italy and Spain by allowing them
to access rescue loans without relinquishing control of their
economies.  Attention will now turn to the  European Central Bank , which
holds its next policy meeting on July 5. The bank has acted
following political progress before, buying bonds after the
establishment of bailout programs in 2010 and giving banks
unlimited three-year loans following last year’s pledge to
deliver fiscal discipline.  Rate Cut  Officials will lower their  benchmark interest rate  by 25
basis points to a record low 0.75 percent, according to the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 57 economists. Five
predict a cut of 50 basis points and 12 foresee no change.  “Equities have put on a good showing at the end of the
first half of the year,” said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of
research at Charles Stanley & Co. in  London . “Investors are
pinning their hopes on additional monetary easing. But we are
still fading rallies and not yet looking to buy the dips.”  In the U.S., data released on June 27 showed  durable-goods
orders  and pending home sales beat economists’ forecasts. The
Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said yesterday its
business activity barometer increased to 52.9 this month from
52.7 in May. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between growth
and contraction. Economists in a Bloomberg survey had projected
a decline.  Construction companies  led gains in the Stoxx 600 this
week, climbing 4.5 percent as a group. CRH, the world’s second-
biggest maker of building materials, advanced 12 percent in
London trading, the most since December. Lafarge SA, the largest
cement maker, rose 6.1 percent.  Colruyt Climbs  Colruyt jumped 16 percent as the Belgian retailer reported
a surprise increase in profit amid heightened price awareness
among consumers. Earnings in the fiscal year that ended March 31
rose to 2.18 euros a share from 2.14 euros. Analysts had
projected a decline to 2.09 euros, according to the average of
21 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Fertilizer makers rallied as corn prices surged after
inventories tumbled the most in 16 years and hot, dry weather
eroded prospects for crops in the U.S.  Yara International ASA, the world’s biggest publicly traded
nitrogen-fertilizer maker, and K+S AG, Europe’s largest potash
producer, each surged 12 percent. Syngenta AG, the biggest maker
of crop chemicals, rose 5.2 percent.  Marine Harvest ASA (MHG) , the world’s biggest salmon farmer,
advanced 12 percent. Norway’s salmon-export prices increased 6.4
percent in a week, according to  Statistics Norway  in Oslo.  Banks Decline  Even after the measures announced at the European Union
summit, bank shares posted the second-worst performance among
the 19  industry groups  in the Stoxx 600.  Barclays Plc, Britain’s second-largest bank by assets,
slumped 19 percent for the biggest decline since August. The
company will pay a record 290 million-pound ($455 million) fine
after investigators found traders and senior managers
“systematically” tried to manipulate Libor, the benchmark rate
for $360 trillion of securities. Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc declined 11 percent.  Infineon Technologies AG slid 14 percent after  Europe ’s
second-largest semiconductor maker said sales in the current
quarter would miss its prediction. The company will probably
reduce its profit forecast again, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co., which downgraded the stock to neutral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  