-- Hewlett-Packard to Shun ARM at Debut of Microsoft Windows 8
-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-29T20:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/hewlett-packard-will-shun-arm-amid-debut-of-microsoft-windows-8.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said it will
hold off selling tablets based on  ARM (ARM)  Holdings Plc technology
when the next version of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating
system debuts later this year.  Hewlett-Packard instead will focus on so-called x86 chips,
such as those made by Intel Corp., said Marlene Somsak, a
spokeswoman for  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard.  The decision is a boon for Intel and  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) , the top makers of x86 chips. It marks a setback for ARM,
which from the outset won’t have its technology in Windows
tablets sold by the largest maker of personal computers. It also
indicates Microsoft wasn’t able to get one of its biggest
partners to line up behind a strategy of introducing multiple
operating systems.  “For them to say they’re skipping this is a big deal,”
said  Michael Gartenberg , an analyst at Gartner Inc. “If they
can’t get HP on board, that’s pretty indicative of the fact that
things are different and the old loyal partners can’t always be
depended on.”  Microsoft plans to release its own ARM-based tablet,
lessening the impact of losing Hewlett-Packard as a maker of the
devices. The decision “was influenced by input from our
customers,” Somsak wrote in an e-mail. “The robust and
established ecosystem of x86 applications provides the best
customer experience at this time and in the immediate future.”  Apple Challenge  Computer makers will use ARM-based chips in devices that
run a version of Microsoft’s operating system called Windows RT.
Tablets using x86 chips will run Windows 8.  The decision cuts an already small number of Windows RT
tablets planned for this year’s debut, the first time Microsoft
has produced a version of its personal-computer operating system
for use on chips with technology from ARM, in a bid to quell the
dominance of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad.  Microsoft limited the number of computer-makers given early
access to the Windows RT code to ensure a smaller number of
high-quality devices. As the number dwindles, there’s additional
pressure that those remaining be successful, said  Sid Parakh , an
analyst at McAdams Wright Ragen in  Seattle .  “It’s not a negative to have just a few, but they need to
be really compelling,” said Parakh, who suggests buying
Microsoft shares.  Business Customers  The first Hewlett-Packard tablet with Windows 8 will focus
on the business market, Somsak said.  Hewlett-Packard’s decision to avoid ARM initially was made
before Microsoft announced its plan to sell its own tablets in
competition with Hewlett-Packard, Somsak said.  The computer maker had considered making an ARM tablet
using chips from  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and was one of a small number of
computer makers chosen to get early access to the Windows RT
code, people with knowledge of the matter said. It opted to
focus elsewhere first, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the deliberations were private.  Apple’s market-leading  iPad  is based on ARM technology, as
are most tablets on sale today.  Intel (INTC)  has had difficulty making
inroads with consumers purchasing devices with its chips, as
ARM-based tablets have had better battery life. Still, ARM
machines running the new version of Windows will only be able to
use new applications written for Windows 8 and Windows RT, while
the x86 machines can run older Windows apps.  Microsoft said last week that it will sell its own tablet,
the Surface, breaking with a practice of relying solely on PC
hardware partners. The Windows RT version of that product will
be available when the new Windows goes on sale, while the x86
version is planned for about 90 days later.  Windows 8 machines that sport Intel chips “will deliver
the most complete experience with the best performance and
compatibility across all computing platforms,” Intel said in an
e-mailed statement.  Mark Martin , a spokesman for Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft, and Andy Phillips, a spokesman for Cambridge,
England-based ARM, declined to comment.  ARM  gained  1.3 percent to 505.5 pence in London. Hewlett-
Packard climbed 3.9 percent to $20.11 at the close in  New York ,
while Microsoft  advanced  2.3 percent to $30.59.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  