-- Texas GOP Shift May Show Way Out of Immigration Stalement
-- B y   K a t h y   W a r b e l o w
-- 2012-06-29T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/texas-shift-may-show-way-out-of-immigration-stalemate.html
Texas  Land Commissioner Jerry
Patterson rose nervously to urge Republicans at the state
party’s convention to support a national guest-worker program
for millions of undocumented residents.  Two years earlier, the party that dominates the second-most
populous state had called for a crackdown on illegal immigrants.  “‘Well, here’s the end of a political career,’” Patterson
said, recalling his thought as he looked over the June 8
gathering in the Fort Worth Convention Center. Instead, the
delegates passed the platform with the guest-worker plan.  In Texas, the state with the second-largest illegal-
immigrant population, Republicans have softened their stance
toward them. The vote reflected a more pragmatic view of years
past, such as when Governor  Rick Perry  signed a first-in-the-
nation 2001 law that gave undocumented residents in-state
tuition rates at public colleges. It preceded a U.S. Supreme
Court ruling this week that voided most of an  Arizona  law
cracking down on people in the country illegally.  “I’m no bleeding heart; I oppose birthright citizenship,”
said Patterson, 65, whose elected office controls state lands
and mineral rights. “But we need the labor.”  Job Growth  Employers in Texas, where job growth led the 10 largest
U.S. states in the 12 months through March, can’t find people
for jobs in industries such as construction and food service,
Patterson said. The new platform put the party in line with
agriculture directors in 15 states, including Texas, who are
pushing for the creation of a “conditional status” for
undocumented workers. The group includes  Alabama , where labor
shortages arose after a crackdown on illegal residents.  Support for a national guest-worker program in Texas,
reflects an emerging shift on the issue, said Doris Meissner,
who led the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service under
President  Bill Clinton . Texas has 1.8 million undocumented
residents, behind only the 2.5 million in  California , according
to the Pew Hispanic Center in  Washington .  “This is a pragmatic approach,” Meissner said by
telephone from Washington, where she is a fellow at the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research organization.
The shift to favor guest-worker programs suggests a path toward
breaking a national stalemate on illegal immigrants, she said.  “This may be the way that as a country we resolve this
problem,” she said. “If you are really serious, this kind of
pragmatism does have to come into play.”  Spreading Interest  Guest-worker programs are winning support from Republican-
led  Utah , where lawmakers passed one, to California, where
Democrats rule and voters may have the chance to endorse such a
plan in November. This month, more than 150 leaders of U.S.
Christian evangelical groups, including Focus on the Family,
backed providing pathways to legal status.  In Texas, the shift is also a bow to demographic changes in
a state where 38 percent of the population is Latino. Hispanics
are forecast to become the majority ethnic group by 2030,
according to state data. And the altered stance harkens back to
what former Texas governor and U.S. President  George W. Bush 
called “compassionate conservatism.”  Bush backed a guest-worker plan during his second term as
president. The proposal, which included creating a pathway to
citizenship for illegal immigrants, stalled in the Senate.  Unwelcome Image  “The  Republican Party  does not need the image as the party
that wants to deport your grandmother,” Norman Adams, 67,
president of a Houston insurance company and a member of the
convention’s platform panel, said by telephone. Until this
month’s gathering, “that’s all our platform told them.” He
said that position had to change to avoid alienating Latinos.  Industries such as meat processing rely on immigrant labor,
Adams said. Texas is the biggest cattle-producing state. In last
year’s legislative session, business groups helped block bills
modeled on the Arizona enforcement statute.  “It’s not a complete solution,” Adams said of the
platform proposal, which includes fines and criminal background
checks and requires employers to withhold taxes and provide
health-care coverage. Yet it would resolve some issues.  “We’re not getting the payroll taxes now,” Adams said.
“They’re not covered by workers’ comp. They’re burdening the
emergency rooms.”  The Texas party’s policy puts it to the left of presumed
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , a former
Massachusetts governor derided by Perry as too moderate on
social issues during the primary campaign. Perry ended his White
House bid in January.  Romney Position  Romney has called for strict immigration-law enforcement
and called on those in the nation illegally to “self-deport.”
He also has criticized Perry’s 2001 in-state tuition move.  The vote at the Fort Worth convention may help open doors
to more people like state Representative Aaron Pena of Edinburg,
near the Mexican border. Pena switched to Republican from
Democrat in 2010, after winning a fifth term in a district that
is 90 percent Hispanic.  “I’ve been a Democrat my whole life, but I feel more
comfortable as a Republican because of their traditional values
-- faith, family,” Pena, 53, said by telephone. His move
suggests a way Republicans may attract more Latinos. He said the
party risks losing such opportunities by taking a harsh stance
on illegal immigrants, such as the Arizona law.  “The conservative movement may die an unnatural death in
some of the southwestern states because the demographics are
changing,” Pena said. “If they do not begin to embrace this
emerging population, they will lose.”  Hard Line  Republican leaders in Texas still favor a hard line on some
aspects of immigration policy. Lieutenant Governor David Dewhurst and former state Solicitor General  Ted Cruz , rivals for
an open U.S. Senate seat, both denounced as “back-door
amnesty” President  Barack Obama ’s June 15 move to halt
deportations of some illegal immigrants brought into the country
as children. Obama also made them eligible for work permits.  Backing for guest-worker plans shows that “there is a
deepening understanding of the dilemma of illegal immigration
and actually solving it,” Meissner said. Such programs provide
“a different way to address the illegal population without
being charged with supporting amnesty,” she said.  Steps by Republicans favoring guest workers also “show
some realization that you obviously can’t deport the millions of
people who are in this country without legal status,” said
Adriana Cadena, a spokeswoman in El Paso for the Reform
Immigration for Texas Alliance, an advocacy group.  “Our system needs to be completely revamped, including
ways to address future immigration,” Cadena said by telephone.  “You have people who have been here for 20 years,” she
said. “They own homes; they have created businesses. They have
nothing to go back to.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathy Warbelow in Austin at 
 kwarbelow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  