-- Mexico Stocks: Genomma Lab, Modelo, OHL Mexico, Sare Were Active
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2012-06-29T21:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/mexico-stocks-genomma-lab-modelo-ohl-mexico-sare-were-active.html
The following companies are having
unusual price changes in Mexico City trading. Stock symbols are
in parentheses, and prices are as of the close of trading.  The  IPC index  rose 1.4 percent to 40,199.55.  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB (LABB)   rose 3 percent to
26.38 pesos. The Mexican producer of over-the-counter drugs
acquired 20 brands of  consumer goods , according to a filing
issued yesterday to the Mexican stock exchange. Brands acquired
include Fermodyl haircare products sold in Mexico and the U.S.
and Bioskin skincare products, the company said. It didn’t
disclose financial terms.  Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC)   rose 0.2 percent to 117.96
pesos.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI) , the world’s biggest brewer,
agreed to buy the remainder of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB for
$20.1 billion in cash. AB InBev said today it will pay $9.15 a
share, about 30 percent more than the price of Modelo shares
before talks were first disclosed on June 25.  OHL Mexico SAB (OHLMEX*)  , the Mexican unit of Spanish
construction company  Obrascon Huarte Lain SA (OHL) , rose 6.2 percent
to 16.29 pesos as European leaders reached an agreement that
eased concern the region’s banks will fail, bolstering the
outlook for global growth. OHL said in a May 29 statement that
its legal injunction was accepted by a court in the state of
Puebla, which agreed to rule on the legality of a move by the
state to withdraw a concession granted to the company.  Sare Holding SAB (SAREB)  , Mexico’s cheapest homebuilder
based on book value, was unchanged at 1.37 pesos after climbing
as much as 3.7 percent earlier in the day. On June 27, Beamonte
Investments Inc.’s managing director Luis Trevino said by phone
from Boston that his private equity firm is considering taking a
stake in Sare.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  