-- Mexican Peso Rallies on $20.1 Billion Corona Brewer Purchase
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-06-29T21:54:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/mexican-peso-rallies-on-20-1-billion-corona-brewer-purchase.html
Mexico’s peso gained the most in six
months after  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  agreed to buy the remainder
of Grupo Modelo SAB for $20.1 billion in cash, spurring
speculation the brewer will move dollars into the country to
fund the purchase.  The peso appreciated 1.9 percent to 13.3608 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest gain since Jan. 3. The rally
pared the currency’s loss this quarter to 4.1 percent. It’s up
4.3 percent in 2012.  “It’s the expectation of a payment flowing into the
country,”  Eduardo Suarez , a currency strategist at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) , said by phone from Toronto. “Even a portion of that
amount of money would be very supportive for the peso.”  The currency gained as the purchase price for Modelo, the
brewer of Corona beer, exceeded expectations, Suarez said. AB
InBev said today it will pay $9.15 a share, about 30 percent
more than the price of Modelo shares before talks were first
disclosed June 25.  The world’s biggest brewer said that it will fund the
acquisition with $14 billion of new loans. Laura Vallis, a
spokeswoman for AB InBev, declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement about the amount of cash the deal would bring into
 Mexico .  The peso also rallied along with other emerging-market
currencies as European leaders reached an agreement that
alleviated concern that banks will fail. After talks that ended
early today in Brussels, leaders of the 17 euro countries
dropped requirements that taxpayers get preferred creditor
status on aid to Spain’s banks and opened the way to
recapitalize lenders directly.  Speculation that Europe’s debt crisis will slow global
growth and hurt the market for Mexican exports helped make the
peso Latin America’s worst-performing major currency in 2011.  Mexico Election  The peso posted a weekly rally of 3.8 percent, the biggest
since December, before July 1 presidential elections.  The final pre-election poll from Consulta Mitofsky shows
Enrique Pena Nieto of the  Institutional Revolutionary Party  with
38.4 percent support, followed by  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of
the Democratic Revolution Party with 25.4 percent and the ruling
National Action Party’s Josefina Vazquez Mota in third at 20.8
percent support.  The poll’s margin of error is 3.1 percentage points.
Mitofsky interviewed 1,000 registered voters from June 22 to
June 24.  Lopez Obrador  held his final campaign rally on June 27 in
the capital’s main square, known as the Zocalo. Supporters of
the former Mexico City mayor shut down the area after
presidential elections six years ago, claiming fraud in
President  Felipe Calderon ’s victory by less than a percentage
point.  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 fell
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage point, to 5.51 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price rose 1.19
centavo to 140.45 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  