-- Four Stars For Guare, Bernstein, Shaw Festival: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/four-stars-for-guare-bernstein-shaw-festival-review.html
The  Shaw Festival  begins its second
century with an exemplary roster of entertainments, including at
least one show that deserves to make the journey from pretty
Niagara-on-the-Lake (Ontario,  Canada ) to Times Square.  That would be “His Girl Friday,” which John Guare has
updated from the 1920s to August, 1939 and the eve of Hitler’s
invasion of  Poland .  The portentous shadow takes nothing away from the sharp
humor.  The setting is the press room of the criminal courts
building in  Chicago  (nicely rendered in shades of grime and dust
by Peter Hartwell, sets and costumes, and Kevin LaMotte,
lights).  It’s so filthy that the windows block out light, but not
the grim thump of sandbags hitting pavement as the gallows
outside is being tested before a hanging.  Toiling inside are hacks and layabouts as befits a comedy
by Ben Hecht and Charles MacArthur, who knew their subject all
too well.  Their 1928 play, “The  Front Page ” focuses on the imminent
execution and the slobs covering it. It was also a love letter
to the one intrepid journalist among them, a gonzo guy named
Hildy Johnson.  When the condemned man escapes, editor Walter Burns -- a
charming blowhard -- pleads with Hildy to ditch his plans to
retire and cover one last story. He can’t resist.  Howard Hawks  For the 1940 film, director  Howard Hawks  gave Hildy a sex
change and added romance to the comedy, casting  Cary Grant  as
Walter and  Rosalind Russell  as Hildy -- his ex-wife as well as
star reporter.  Guare draws on both the screenplay and the Broadway
original.  Now the corrupt mayor and his cronies are looking to
exploit the hanging to take voters’ minds off unemployment and
the looming threat of war in  Europe .  The convict, a poor zhlub named Earl Holub, has been
collecting anti-Nazi propaganda, allowing the pols to add
xenophobia and anti-Semitism to their pandering rhetoric.  “If we didn’t have the election on Tuesday, I’d have this
on my conscience,” the sheriff says without irony.  Guare’s adaptation had some detractors at its London outing
in 2003, but Jim Mezon’s gritty, rapid-fire production, which I
caught at a preview, makes a strong case for a Broadway outing.  Peroxide Blonde  Nicole Underhay’s Hildy is a peroxide blonde with a gum-
cracking smirk and eyes that pierce. She can outsmart everyone
(it’s a low bar) but Benedict Campbell’s Walter, who preaches
activist journalism like the Gospel. The rest of the ensemble is
outstanding.  Guare captures Hecht and MacArthur’s soft-touch satire with
the skill of one who shares a love for scalawags and losers.  “Friday” isn’t the only reason a trip to Niagara-on-the-
Lake deserves special consideration this summer.  Jackie Maxwell, now in her 11th season as artistic
director, stages a fine, intimate production of “Ragtime,” an
earnest musical that never quite reaches the heights of the E.L. Doctorow novel.  Shaw is represented with two shows, a Swinging Sixties
“Misalliance” and “The Millionairess,” both of which
spotlight the festival’s talented acting company.  But the most unexpected gem of the early Shaw season is
“Trouble in Tahiti,”  Leonard Bernstein ’s prescient meditation
on marital strife and suburban ennui from 1952.  Performed in the 300-seat Court House Theatre, “Trouble”
has the concentrated power of a John Cheever short story. The
scenery is minimal; a few miniature homes suggest the numbing
sameness of life.  The leads, married Dinah and Sam, are compellingly sung by
Elodie Gillett and Mark Uhre. In the most memorable scene, they
run into each other on the street and awkwardly make excuses for
why they can’t have lunch together, even though both are alone.  Bernstein’s snappy score -- he loved advertising jingles -
- is played with great depth of feeling by a jazz quartet. The
confident direction is by Jay Turvey and the smoothly integrated
choreography is by Linda Garneau.  In Niagara-on-the-Lake, you’ll find everything from bed-
and-breakfasts to luxurious spas like the  Oban Inn , which offers
a hot stone massage between shows. Don’t miss the beautifully
prepared fish at Epicurean and great steaks at the Stone Road
Grill.  The Shaw Festival, in Niagara-on-the-Lake, Ontario,
continues through Oct. 27. Information: +1-800-511-7429;
 http://www.shawfest.com . For information about accommodations,
go to  http://www.shawfest.com/plan-your -
visit/accommodations/packages. Rating: ****  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on movies and  Lewis
Lapham  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 