-- Gaydamak Loses U.K. Case Against Leviev Over Angolan Diamonds
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2012-06-29T11:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/gaydamak-loses-u-k-case-against-leviev-over-angolan-diamonds.html
Arkady Gaydamak, owner of Beitar
Jerusalem  Soccer Club , lost his London lawsuit today against
 Africa-Israel Investments (AFIL)  Ltd. Chairman  Lev Leviev  over millions
of dollars from an Angolan diamond business.  A U.K. court ruled against Gaydamak’s claims to profits
from the diamond venture they co-owned, saying there had been a
signed agreement between the men settled in August 2011.  Gaydamak wasn’t “reliable,” Judge Geoffrey Vos said in
his written judgment. “He was garrulous and unstructured in his
answers and keen to act as his own advocate rather than focusing
on the questions.”  The suit pitted two well-known Israeli businessmen against
one another. Leviev, whose Africa  Israel  Investments was one of
Israel’s largest real-estate companies before it refinanced debt
in the wake of the 2008 global economic crisis, is also known
for his diamond business. Gaydamak, 59, failed in his attempt to
run for mayor of  Jerusalem  and is known for giving temporary
refuge to Israelis who were living under rocket fire.  Gaydamak, who watched the trial by video link from Israel,
said he invited Leviev to join the diamond venture after
advising the Angolan government on licensing in 1998, according
to legal papers outlining his claim. In 2000, they agreed to
divide ownership of a new company, Ascorp, to export diamonds
from  Angola  and share the profits.  ‘Bamboozled’  “I was bamboozled into signing the settlement agreement,”
Gaydamak said in an e-mailed statement today. He said that he
will apply for permission to appeal.  Vos also criticized the 55-year-old Leviev’s “arrogance,”
saying he “was re-writing the history, leaving some of the
crucial characters out of the story.”  The chief rabbi of  Russia , Berel Lazar, lost documents with
which he was entrusted from an agreement with Leviev to share
profits from the jewel-trading venture and lost them, Gaydamak
told the court in May.  “I have maintained all along that we had an agreement,”
Gaydamak said in his e-mail. “It was always surprising and
disappointing that Mr. Leviev and Rabbi Lazar persistently lied
in this regard.”  Gaydamak claimed he hadn’t received any commission,
dividends or profits from the company since 2004. Proceeds from
Ascorp average 3 million dollars a month, Gaydamak said.  Leviev “is obviously very pleased with this outcome,”
according to an e-mailed statement from Alon Riza, a spokesman
for Stewarts Law LLP, which represented Africa Israeli chairman.  Angola sold about $1 billion worth of diamonds last year.
Revenue from the trade has funded violent conflict across
Africa, including in Angola, according to human rights group
 Global Witness .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  