-- German Parliament Approves Fiscal Pact and Bailout Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-06-29T22:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/germany-s-lower-house-passes-fiscal-pact-and-esm-bailout-fund.html
Germany ’s parliament approved the
European Union’s fiscal pact and the permanent euro bailout fund
with clear majorities as Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pledged
solidarity and vowed to overcome the debt crisis.  The measures won two-thirds majorities in both the lower
and upper chambers, the Bundestag and Bundesrat, in sessions
that stretched yesterday until nearly midnight. Returning from
Brussels, where Merkel conceded to demands to offer relief to
Spain and  Italy  at an EU summit, the German leader called the
fiscal pact for budget discipline and the European Stability
Mechanism “necessary” to overcome the crisis.  “This is a signal of solidarity and determination,
domestically as well as abroad,” Merkel told lawmakers
yesterday before the vote in Berlin. Passage is “a signal to
overcome the European sovereign debt crisis in a sustainable way
-- and a signal from us that  Europe  is our future.”  Parliamentary approval doesn’t include Merkel’s agreement
with other leaders of the 17-member euro bloc yesterday to relax
conditions on bailout funding. Still, the unusual double vote
underscored the insistence by lawmakers in Berlin to assert
control over euro-crisis measures.  Merkel’s seeking two-thirds majorities in both houses for
approval of the bills required her Christian Democratic-led bloc
to make concessions to the opposition Social Democrats and
Greens as well as to the German states on growth-boosting steps
and a financial-transaction tax.  For Europe  Greens parliamentary leader  Juergen Trittin  said in a
speech to the Bundestag his party backed the legislation because
“we need to vote to preserve this Europe.”  Merkel said the agreed-upon process to establish a euro-
area banking supervisor and enable the ESM to recapitalize banks
directly “would take several months or perhaps a year.”
Parliament would need to approve the changes.  The two measures now await the signature of German
President  Joachim Gauck , who said June 21 that he would withhold
passage pending potential lawsuits to challenge the new laws, as
requested by the Federal Constitutional Court.  Approval “was widely expected given the deals struck
between Merkel’s CDU and the opposition in the past few days,
but it still marks an important milestone,” Thomas Costerg, an
economist at Standard Chartered Bank in  London , said in a e-
mailed response to questions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  