-- German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Drop as Crisis Bites
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k
-- 2012-06-29T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/german-retail-sales-unexpectedly-fell-for-a-second-month-in-may.html
German retail sales unexpectedly
fell for a second month in May as the sovereign debt crisis
worsened, damping the economic outlook.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, dropped
0.3 percent from April, when they declined 0.2 percent, the
Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 0.2 percent, the median of 13 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey  shows. Sales dropped 1.1 percent from a
year ago.  Unemployment at a two-decade low, falling energy costs and
rising wages have bolstered  consumer spending  this year, helping
to shield the German economy from  Europe ’s turmoil. With at
least seven euro nations in recession and budget cuts across the
region eroding demand for German exports, investors and
executives are growing more pessimistic.  “Private consumption, supported by the robust labor
market, is a stabilizing pillar for the German economy,” said
Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt.
“At the same time, the crisis in the euro area and uncertainty
about the economic outlook are slowing the positive dynamic in
the labor market as employers reduce new hires.”  While  Germany ’s jobless rate held at 6.8 percent in June,
the number of people out of work rose by 7,000, the Federal
Labor Agency said yesterday.  Slower Inflation  Falling oil prices and rising wages may continue to
encourage consumer spending.  Inflation slowed more than economists forecast to 2 percent
this month as fuel costs declined.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) , Europe’s
largest carmaker, agreed last month to a 4.3 percent pay raise
for its employees in western Germany.  The Bundesbank this month raised its 2012 growth forecast
to 1 percent from 0.6 percent, citing domestic consumption.
 Consumer confidence  will increase in July, the GfK market
research company predicted on June 26.  Still, business confidence dropped to the lowest in more
than two years in June and investor sentiment plunged after data
showed the debt crisis is taking its toll on exports, factory
orders and industrial production.  Metro AG (MEO) , Germany’s biggest retailer, in May stuck to a
forecast that profit won’t increase this year amid concern that
the economy will struggle to grow and consumers will limit
spending. Metro shares are down about 19 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph de Weck in  Frankfurt  at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  