-- Greenspan Says Europe Like a ‘Leaking Boat’ With Holes
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-29T22:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/greenspan-says-europe-like-a-leaking-boat-with-holes.html
Alan Greenspan , a former Federal
Reserve chairman, today compared  Europe  to a “leaking boat”
and said political consolidation is the only solution to the
region’s financial crisis.  “The problems in Europe are the fiscal deficits of all the
various countries that are involved,” Greenspan said in an
interview on CNBC television. “It’s like a leaking boat in
which we keep bailing it out and we’re very pleased with
ourselves that we’d be able to keep bailing it out. The problem
is we haven’t fixed the holes yet.”  European leaders in Brussels this week held their 19th
summit since the sovereign-debt crisis started more than two
years ago. Euro-area nations granted immediate respite to the
stressed bond markets of  Spain  and  Italy , leaving investors
looking to the  European Central Bank  to provide more lasting
relief.  “The only solution to the European crisis is political
consolidation of Europe. I think we’re gradually moving in that
direction; in fact I know we are,” Greenspan, 86, said in the
interview. “The only issue is, will we ever reach that?”  By addressing flaws in their bailout programs, moving
toward a banking union and trying to break a negative loop
between troubled sovereigns and banks, euro-area officials
triggered the biggest rally in Spanish bonds and the euro this
year.  Stocks, Euro  Global stocks also surged the most this year and oil had
its biggest gain since 2009 after European leaders reached the
agreement that eased concern banks will fail.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  climbed 3 percent, the
most since November, while the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 2.5 percent to cap its best June since 1999. The euro
appreciated 1.7 percent against the dollar and rallied as much
as 2 percent, the most since Oct. 27. Spain’s two-year yield
plunged more than a full percentage point.  Germany ’s parliament approved the European Union’s fiscal
pact and the permanent euro bailout fund with clear majorities
as Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pledged solidarity and vowed to
overcome the debt crisis.  “This is a signal of solidarity and determination,
domestically as well as abroad,” Merkel told lawmakers today
before the vote in Berlin. Passage is “a signal to overcome the
European sovereign debt crisis in a sustainable way -- and a
signal from us that Europe is our future.”  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  Greenspan said in the CNBC interview that in the U.S. the
“fiscal cliff will be essentially kicked down the road, like
the can. The reason basically is that nobody wants all of a
sudden all of those items to hit the economy at the time.”  The term “fiscal cliff” refers to a number of major tax-
and-spending changes that will take effect at the end of this
year unless Congress acts. The George W. Bush-era income tax
cuts will expire, as will a temporary cut in the Social Security
payroll tax. About $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over
a decade will be poised to start, expanded jobless benefits will
expire, and the government will approach the legal limit on
federal borrowing.  “We’re not going to be hit by that,” Greenspan said.
“Ultimately at the end of the day, something will be done.”  Inaction on  Capitol Hill  could push the  U.S. economy  into
recession next year, the  Congressional Budget Office  said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in Washington at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  