-- Gross Says Europe in Debt Trap After Relief Plan: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-06-29T15:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/gross-says-debt-trap-remains-after-european-agreement-tom-keene.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  said a “debt trap” remains in place even after
European leaders reached an agreement that alleviated concern
the region’s banks will fail.  Pimco continues to avoid the debt of nations including
Spain and Portugal in favor of U.S. Treasuries and mortgage
securities, Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “The peripherals and even the core union nations have too
much debt,” Gross said. “The marginal cost of that debt is far
above nominal GDP growth in respective nations. That continues a
debt trap unless the cost of debt can come down.”  Five-year notes of  Spain , with $935 billion of debt and an
8.5 percent deficit, yield 5.5 percent. The nation’s gross
domestic product is forecast to shrink 1.7 percent this year and
0.5 percent in 2013, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  European policy makers eased repayment rules for Spanish
banks, relaxed conditions for possible aid to  Italy  and unveiled
a $149 billion growth plan for the region’s economy at a summit
in Brussels. They dropped a requirement that their governments
get preferred-creditor status on crisis loans to Spain’s
lenders.  Fiscal Union  “We need some sense that the family can get along going
forward,” Gross said. “That is a union of some sort. Not just
a monetary union but a fiscal union that can have an actual
impact going forward.”  Gross raised the proportion of U.S. government and Treasury
debt in the $261 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  to 35 percent in May,
the first increase since January and up from 31 percent of its
holdings in April. Mortgages remained the largest holding in the
fund at 52 percent last month, according to data on the website.  “ Mexico  and  Brazil , they’re all attractive markets with
clean balance sheets,” Gross said. “They’re much more safe, so
to speak, than some of those peripherals,”  Brazil has a deficit of 2.4 percent while Mexico’s is 0.92
percent. Bonds of Brazil have returned 2.1 percent this month,
and Mexico’s have gained 3 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data.  Pimco’s Total Return Fund gained 7.2 percent over the past
year, beating 74 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  