-- Tibco Rises After Positive Report: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-06-29T20:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/tibco-rises-after-positive-report-san-francisco-mover.html
Tibco Software Inc. (TIBX)  jumped more than
10 percent as investors took yesterday’s positive earnings
report and forecast as a sign that the company isn’t suffering
badly from financial ills in Europe.  Tibco rose 12 percent to $29.92 at the New York close, the
 biggest gain  since September 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Palo Alto, California-based company reported
yesterday that second-quarter  sales  rose 14 percent, more than
analysts expected, and predicted sales for the quarter ending in
August that were within the range of analyst estimates.  “They had great guidance on the call -- that’s what is
driving the stock,”  Brent Thill , an analyst at UBS in  San
Francisco , said in an e-mail. Sales in the Europe,  Middle East 
and Africa region rose 4 percent, easing investor concerns that
the debt crisis there would hinder technology spending.
“Everyone was worried about Europe falling apart, and that
didn’t happen,” said Thill, who has a  buy  rating on the shares.  Brad Zelnick, an analyst at Macquarie Capital USA Inc. in
New York, said in an interview that  institutional investors  are
returning to Tibco’s stock because the report was “good
enough” to ease worries about business in Europe, which
accounts for more than a third of sales, and banks, which make
up more than a fifth. Tibco sells software that knits together
companies’ various data center applications.  Tibco’s head of U.S. sales, Robin Gilthorpe, departed this
week amid a reorganization at the maker of products for running
corporate data centers, according to people with knowledge of
the matter. During a  conference call  with analysts yesterday,
Chief Executive Officer  Vivek Ranadive  said he’s “not
satisfied” with Tibco’s performance in the Americas, and the
software maker is changing leadership there. He didn’t identify
Gilthorpe.  “We haven’t executed well in the  United States ,” Ranadive
said. “We’re leaving money on the table right now, and I want
to go pick it up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  