-- Michael Saylor, Jim Kimsey, Al Monaco, Huizenga: D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-29T14:53:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/michael-saylor-jim-kimsey-al-monaco-huizenga-d-c-.html
Sporting a new beard, MicroStrategy
Inc.’s chief executive and chairman, Michael Saylor, was the
guest of honor last night at a party to celebrate his new book,
“The Mobile Wave: How Mobile Intelligence Will Change
Everything.”  “I just wanted a change,” Saylor said as he mingled with
 America Online Inc. (AOL)  founder Jim Kimsey and Stephen X. Graham,
president of CrossHill Financial Group Inc., at the Georgetown
home of Pine Creek Partners LLC managing partner Rick Rickertsen.  Saylor joked that giving a friend your book is less of a
gift, and more of a potential “liability, because the next time
you see them you have to ask what they thought of it.”  For 12 years, Rickertsen has served on the board of
MicroStrategy, a Virginia-based maker of analytical software
that employs 3,000 people around the world and generates $600
million in annual revenues.  Rickertsen said he was happy to host the party for Saylor,
because “he’s one of the most generous people in  Washington .”  The bachelor Saylor, 47, is known for his rowdy yacht
parties and sizable donations to local organizations such as the
Washington  Humane Society .  Guest Rebecca Cooper, a reporter for ABC Channel 7,
referred to Saylor as “the biggest playboy wonk on the
planet.”  ‘Intellectual Passion’  Saylor said his “intellectual passion” is the history of
science, and in his book he explains how he sees the progression
of technology.  In coming years, physical objects like money, keys and
books will “dematerialize” and be replaced by software, he
said. Business leaders must make a transition from a
“hardware” mentality to a “software” inevitability.  After hearing Saylor’s techy book summary, guests floated
around Rickertsen’s hydrangea-filled garden, where cocktails and
chicken quesadillas were served.  Rickertsen encouraged the overheated to jump in his pool.  Pancake Breakfast  Canadian Ambassador Gary Doer and James Blanchard, co-
chairman of the government affairs practice group at DLA Piper
US LLP, hosted a Western-style pancake breakfast yesterday.  The occasion was the 100th anniversary of the Calgary
Stampede, an annual rodeo, exhibition and parade that this year
runs July 6-15.  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the Calgary-based oil and gas company,
sponsored the event, with its president, Al Monaco, in
attendance, as was Representative Bill Huizenga, a Michigan
Republican.  The courtyard of the Canadian Embassy looked like the set
of “Oklahoma,” with bales of hay, picnic tables and guests in
Western shirts. White cowboy hats and bolo ties were provided at
the check-in table.  Country music, including tunes from Canadian Shania Twain,
blared while more than 300 guests served themselves pancakes and
syrup, scrambled eggs and home fries. Some cowboys paused to see
if news from the  Supreme Court ’s health-care decision had
reached their inboxes.  Capitol Hill staffer Joy Henrichs from the office of
Representative  John Shimkus , an Illinois Republican, posed for a
photo with Harry the Horse, a human in equine costume and the
official mascot of the Calgary Stampede.  Real horses stood watch in the distance. Their stewards
were from the U.S. Park Police and the  Royal Canadian Mounted
Police .  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Martin
Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 