-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Falls to Lowest Since December
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d
-- 2012-06-29T14:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/michigan-consumer-sentiment-gauge-fell-to-73-2-in-june-correct-.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
declined in June to the lowest level this year as Americans grew
more pessimistic about prospects for the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final index  of
sentiment fell to 73.2 this month from 79.3 in May. The gauge
was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 74.1,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Unemployment exceeding 8 percent for 40 straight months is
limiting wage growth and restraining  household spending , which
accounts for 70 percent of the economy. At the same time,
 Europe ’s debt crisis is prompting volatility in the stock
market, making Americans feel less wealthy.  “People now when they see the stock market wavering and
they hear the evening news reports talk about the seriousness of
the ongoing situation in Europe and what that could mean for the
financial system, once again they do worry,”  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before today’s report.  Estimates for the Michigan confidence measure ranged from
72 to 76, according to the Bloomberg survey. The June decline
was the first in 10 months. The index averaged 64.2 during the
last recession and 89 in the five years before the 18-month
economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Stocks Climb  U.S. stocks joined a global rally after European leaders
reached an agreement that alleviated concern banks will fail.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.9 percent to 1,353.88 at
10:21 a.m. in  New York .  Consumer spending stalled in May as slower job gains and a
lack of wage growth prompted Americans to cut back, according to
another report today. Purchases were unchanged, the weakest
since November, after a 0.1 percent rise the prior month that
was smaller than initially reported, Commerce Department figures
showed.  Michigan ’s reading for June is at odds with the Bloomberg
measure of sentiment, which climbed last week the highest level
in two months as optimism over personal finances helped
alleviate growing apprehension about the economy.  The decline in the Michigan survey for June reflected more
pessimism among households with incomes above $75,000 as they
viewed the economy and their own financial prospects less
favorably.  Current Conditions  The Michigan survey’s index of  current conditions  asks
Americans whether they’re better off than they were a year ago
and if they think it’s a good time to buy big-ticket items like
cars. In June that measure dropped to 81.5 from 87.2.  The index of  consumer expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
decreased to 67.8 from 74.3, which was the highest since July
2007.  Employment growth has waned relative to its pace earlier
this year, when it reached a high of 275,000 in January.
Applications for jobless benefits hovered last week near the
highest level of the year, showing continuing weakness in the
U.S. labor market.  Claims for unemployment insurance payments decreased by
6,000 to 386,000 in the week ended June 23 from a revised
392,000 the prior period that matched the most this year,
according to Labor Department figures issued today in
Washington.  Labor View  Today’s report showed that for the first time in six
months, reports of job losses have outnumbered employment gains,
while more Americans said they expect increases in the jobless
rate rather than declines.  Confidence in economic policies held near all-time lows,
with 10 percent saying they were favorable, today’s data showed.  The smallest wage gains in a year and unemployment
exceeding 8 percent are taking a toll on shoppers.  Retail sales 
fell 0.2 percent in May for a second month, Commerce Department
figures showed June 13. Sales excluding  car dealerships  slumped
by the most in two years.  “We saw the consumer get a lot more cautious in May,”
Clarence Otis, chairman and chief executive officer at Darden,
said on a June 22 conference call with analysts. “And that was
not just at Red Lobster, but across the restaurant industry”
and “generally across the overall consumer environment beyond
restaurants.”  Darden, owner of the Red Lobster,  Olive Garden  and LongHorn
Steakhouse restaurant chains, reported fourth-quarter revenue
that trailed analysts’ estimates because of an unexpected drop
in sales at its older establishments. The company said customers
grew more cautious in May, and it will focus more on
affordability in its promotional offers.  Spending Ability  “Moderation in employment is relating to the moderation in
income growth and that is directly going to impact consumers
spending ability,” Ameriprise Financial’s Price said.
“Retailers are justified to worry about future prospects when
they see job growth slowing and income slowing because it just
means less spending potential for the months ahead.”  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.1 percent over the next 12 months, compared
with 3 percent in the prior month’s survey. Over the next five
years, Americans expected a 2.8 percent rate of inflation,
compared with 2.7 percent in the May report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  Washington  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  