-- Microsoft’s Parker to Replace Guggenheimer as PC Liaison
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/microsoft-s-parker-to-replace-pc-maker-liaison-guggenheimer-1-.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said Steven Guggenheimer, a vice president who oversees the software maker’s
relationships with computer makers, is leaving the position and
will be replaced by Nick Parker.  Guggenheimer  will take a sabbatical before returning to a
new role at the company,  Frank Shaw , a spokesman for Microsoft,
said yesterday in an interview. Parker had previously overseen
marketing in the group that deals with computer makers.  The switch coincides with a strategy shift poised to put
Microsoft at odds with the device makers that most widely use
its software. Microsoft unveiled plans last week to sell its own
tablet, becoming a rival to its closest partners. Hewlett-
Packard Co. said yesterday that it won’t sell a tablet with
Windows RT, declining to back Microsoft’s strategy of selling
two versions of the next operating system at its introduction.  “Put in someone fresh now and they can have some positive
impact before launch,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners in  New York . It’s been a long time since a Microsoft
partner released a piece of hardware “that you really
coveted.”  The switch has been planned for some time and is unrelated
to the Microsoft’s new tablet, Shaw said. Guggenheimer spent
more than four years in the job, heading up what Microsoft calls
its Original Equipment Manufacturer unit.  Moving On  “As a result of long term planning, Steven Guggenheimer
will move on from his current role as CVP of the OEM Division
effective July 1, to coincide with the start of Microsoft’s
fiscal year,” Shaw said in a separate statement. “He is taking
on a new senior leadership role at the company, and further
details will be provided when finalized.”  The move comes months before Microsoft plans to release an
overhauled version of Windows that adds touch support for
tablets and runs on processors with technology from  ARM Holdings
Plc (ARM)  for the first time.  The company hasn’t done a great job of working with PC
makers, as only a handful will initially sell tablets with
Windows RT, the version for ARM-based chips, Gillis said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  