-- Micron to Acquire Elpida for 200 Billion Yen, Nikkei Reports
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-06-29T00:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/micron-to-acquire-elpida-for-200-billion-yen-nikkei-reports.html
Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  will buy
bankrupt Japanese chipmaker Elpida Memory Inc. for an estimated
200 billion yen ($2.5 billion), the Nikkei newspaper said.  As much as 140 billion yen of the acquisition price will be
used to pay Elpida’s debts, and about 70 percent of the Tokyo-
based company’s liabilities won’t be repaid, the Nikkei
reported, without saying where it got the information. Micron
will invest 100 billion yen in Elpida facilities including its
plant in Hiroshima,  Japan , to boost output of dynamic random-
access memory chips, the report said.  Acquiring Elpida, an  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   supplier , would double
Micron’s share of the global market for DRAM, the most widely
used memory chips in personal computers, to about 24 percent.
That would help the Boise, Idaho-based company vie with industry
leader Samsung Electronics Co. while giving it greater control
over supply gluts that have caused it to report four straight
 quarterly losses  amid falling prices.  Dan Francisco, a spokesman for Micron, declined to comment
on the report. Phone calls to Elpida weren’t immediately
answered.  Micron shares gained 4.4 percent, the most since March 13,
to close at $5.97 yesterday.  The largest U.S. maker of computer memory won approval from
the Tokyo District Court in May to negotiate to acquire Elpida’s
entire business after the Japanese company held two rounds of
bidding.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the only company that had publicly
expressed interest in buying Elpida at the time, decided not to
participate in the second round, the Icheon, South Korea-based
manufacturer said May 4.  Elpida Bankruptcy  Sakamoto is heading Elpida’s restructuring efforts as a
court-appointed trustee. The company plans to submit its revival
plan Aug. 21.  Elpida sought protection from creditors in February after
prices of DRAM chips plummeted. The lower prices and a stronger
yen, which erodes the value of repatriated earnings from
overseas, led the company to report a fifth straight quarter of
losses.  Micron reported a fourth consecutive quarterly loss on June
20 after sluggish demand for personal computers dragged down
chip prices. The company had a net  loss  of $320 million in the
three months that ended May 31, compared with profit of $75
million a year earlier, Micron said.  Micron Chief Executive Officer Mark Durcan told analysts on
June 20 the company will only go ahead with a purchase of Elpida
if it doesn’t involve diluting stock or taking on too much
interest-bearing debt.  DRAM Market  Samsung maintained its top slot in the DRAM market in the
first quarter with a 41.4 percent  share , TrendForce Corp. said
May 8. Hynix had 23.9 percent, Elpida’s share was 12.4 percent,
and Micron had 11.6 percent, the researcher said.  Micron’s purchase of Elpida would mark “the end of a
perfectly competitive market as Samsung, Hynix, and the new
Micron team become the three main players in an oligopolistic
market,” TrendForce said in a June 6 statement. The researcher
forecast the DRAM market by value may  shrink  15 percent to $25
billion this year from 2011.  Taking over Elpida would also help Micron boost its mobile
DRAM business, as the Japanese chipmaker held a 17 percent share
in the market in the fourth quarter, TrendForce said. Micron
controlled 7.3 percent of the mobile-DRAM market, lagging behind
Samsung’s 54 percent and Hynix’s 21 percent.  Elpida Plants  Elpida has three production sites, including one in  Taiwan 
through its  Rexchip Electronics Corp. (4932)  unit. The company’s main
Hiroshima factory, which produces mobile DRAM, has about 2,400
workers, according to the Hiroshima prefectural government.  Whoever buys Elpida would have to spend $3 billion during
the next 12-18 months to help restore the company’s
competitiveness, making the deal risky, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch said in a March 30 report.  The Japanese chipmaker was created through the 1999 merger
of the memory businesses of  NEC Corp. (6701)  and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)   Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  announced its withdrawal from the DRAM business in 2001 to
focus on making NAND flash memory chips. Elpida failed to
recover after the government and banks bailed out the company in
2009 with 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  