-- Highland Capital Drops Texas Lawsuit Against Citigroup
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n   a n d   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-06-29T18:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/highland-capital-drops-texas-lawsuit-against-citigroup.html
Highland Capital Management LP
dropped a lawsuit against  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in which it sought to
block its removal as manager of a $921 million collateralized
loan obligation.  Highland, which sued Citigroup and Babson Capital
Management LLC in April, filed a notice of dismissal of the
complaint yesterday in federal court in  Dallas . It didn’t give a
reason for the dismissal.  The Dallas-based investment advisory firm said this week
that it would continue to manage the Liberty CLO after
exercising a provision in the indenture allowing it to buy some
of the riskiest portions, the so-called equity piece, of the
fund from Babson and New York-based Citigroup.  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying levels of risk and return.  Stefan Prelog, a spokesman for Highland; David Coburn, a
spokesman for Babson; and Scott Helfman, a Citigroup spokesman,
declined to comment.  Citigroup, the underwriter of the CLO, in May 2011
approached Highland, founded in 1993 by Mark Okada and James Dondero, about liquidating the fund, Highland said in court
papers. Some CLOs allow a deal to be called if the majority of
the investors in the equity portion vote to do so.  Citigroup Gains  Citigroup would have made gains from the transaction as it
had purchased positions in the fund at a discounted price,
according to Highland.  The price of AAA CLO debt rose to 94.75 cents on the dollar
June 7, according to Morgan Stanley data. The price dropped to
as low as 69 cents in April 2009.  After Highland refused to liquidate the fund, Citigroup
sought to remove the firm and replace it with Babson, which also
owned a piece of the CLOs’ riskiest portion, according to
Highland’s filing.  Citigroup, the largest arranger of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans in the U.S. this year, and its predecessors
arranged at least five cash-flow CLOs for Highland.  The case is Highland Capital Management LP v. Citigroup
Global Markets Inc., 12-01100, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of  Texas  (Dallas).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York 
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;
Kristen Haunss in New York
at   khaunss@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Faris Khan at   fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 