-- Congress Clears Highway Measure With Student-Loan Provisn
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-06-29T19:43:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/highway-deal-leaves-u-s-trust-fund-in-self-bankrupting-cycle.html
The U.S. Congress today cleared a
bill that will keep money flowing for highway and mass transit
projects for the next 27 months. Lawmakers acted a day before
the programs were due to expire.  The legislation, passed by 373-52 in the  House of
Representatives  and then by 74-19 in the Senate, now goes to
President  Barack Obama , who will sign it into law.  “It’s a good, bipartisan bill that will create jobs,
strengthen our transportation system and grow our economy,”
White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  told reporters traveling
with Obama to inspect fire damage in  Colorado .  The measure overhauls how projects undergo review for their
effect on the environment. It will consolidate the number of
programs dedicated to specific policy priorities and give states
more flexibility to skip federal mandates on bicycle paths and
pedestrian walkways.  “The construction sector has been hit hard during this
recession,” said Senator  Barbara Boxer , the California Democrat
who led the House-Senate conference committee negotiating the
bill. “Well over 1 million construction workers are unemployed.
This is the answer.”  Spending Levels  The transportation bill maintains current spending levels
through September 2014, or  $94.3 billion  for fiscal 2013 and
2014 combined, according to the  Congressional Budget Office . The
federal gasoline tax won’t provide enough to cover that level of
construction, so the bill uses $18.8 billion of general tax
money to bridge the gap.  Besides transportation-related programs, the legislation
extends for a year current student-loan interest rates, which
had been scheduled to double to 6.8 percent on July 1. The
measure also reauthorizes the National Flood Insurance Program,
which had been set to expire at the end of July.  Just weeks ago, the bill’s prospects were dim. Efforts in
the Republican-led House to pass a highway plan fell apart
earlier this year, and it wouldn’t pass the bill approved by the
Democratic-led Senate.  The deal came together as the House dropped demands that an
approval of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL oil pipeline to the
U.S. Gulf Coast be included in the bill. The Senate agreed to
policies that will speed up the approval process for highway and
bridge projects, and a renewed emphasis on highways in federal
grant programs.  “This is the most conservative highway bill ever, both
from a fiscal standpoint and a policy standpoint,” said
Representative  John Mica , the Florida Republican who is chairman
of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  