-- Investors Favor Emerging Debt Over U.S. to Navigate Euro Crisis
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-06-29T10:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/investors-favor-emerging-debt-over-u-s-to-navigate-euro-crisis.html
Global investors managing more than
$500 billion are buying emerging-market debt and shares of well
capitalized companies to avoid the  European debt crisis  and low-
yielding havens such as U.S. Treasuries.  “Balance sheet strength is a big theme for us at the
moment,” said Anne Richards, chief investment officer at
 Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN) , which oversees 185 billion pounds
($288 billion). “Many European equities are high risk while we
are also nervous about U.S. Treasuries, which look overvalued.”  Surging borrowing costs for  Italy  and  Spain , Europe’s third
and fourth-biggest economies, have pushed up prices of
traditional haven assets such as 10-year Treasuries and German
bunds, which are offering negative real yields. That’s leading
investors who met this week at the annual Fund Forum conference
in  Monaco  to look to  emerging markets  for capital preservation
as well as growth.  “People are underestimating the health of Asian issuers,”
said Richards, who is buying Indonesian sovereign debt, Latin
American corporate bonds and gold to guard against major shocks
in Europe. For growth, Aberdeen fund managers favor European
stocks with strong balance sheets and customers in emerging
markets such as  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Jim McCaughan, chief executive officer of  Principal Global
Investors LLC , which manages about $250 billion, agrees there’s
“not much point” in buying U.S. Treasuries at current yields.
He prefers emerging-market debt and equities along with U.S.
commercial property yielding 6 percent to 7 percent.  European Headwinds  “The  euro zone  will be a source of volatility and a
headwind probably for a few years to come,” he said. There is a
25 percent chance Europe’s leaders fail to deal with the crisis
or get voted out of office and replaced by nationalist
politicians who reject the euro, McCaughan said. That would
cause Europe’s economy to contract by between 5 percent and 8
percent in a year, he said.  The European Union summit, which started yesterday, comes a
week after 10-year borrowing costs for Spain, the euro zone’s
fourth-largest economy, first reached the 7 percent level that
prompted euro members Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek
bailouts.  Euro-area leaders including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
agreed to ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish
banks and relax conditions on possible help for Italy after 13 ½
hours of talks ending at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels today. Even so,
the leaders struggled for consensus on reducing market pressure
on Italy and Spain.  ‘Maximum Flexibility’  Short of satisfying Germany that fiscal and structural
reforms are in place, Europe’s weaker countries may have to wait
until a “major event” spurs Merkel into taking “bolder
steps,” according to Jose Antonio Blanco, the chief investment
officer for Europe at  UBS AG’s Global Asset Management . UBS GAM
has 80 billion Swiss francs ($83 billion) under management.  Blanco, who can only hold European assets, said he’s
keeping more of his funds in cash because there’s a lack of safe
investments in  Europe  and he wants to be ready to invest when
leaders agree measures to stem the crisis.  “After any sign of significant action, we expect markets
to rally so we’re holding cash to maintain maximum
flexibility,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 