-- IPC Stock Index Soars to Record Before Vote: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-29T20:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/ipc-stock-index-soars-to-record-before-vote-mexico-city-mover.html
Mexico ’s benchmark stock  index 
surged to a record on the last trading day before presidential
elections that may return the once-dominant  Institutional
Revolutionary Party  to power after a 12-year hiatus.  The IPC climbed 1.4 percent to 40,199.55 in Mexico City
trading, the highest level on record on a closing basis. The
gauge has rallied 2.9 percent in five consecutive daily gains
this week, compared with a 2 percent advance for the  Standard &
Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index and a 2.7 percent increase for MSCI Inc.’s
Latin America index. Mexico’s peso jumped 2.1 percent to 13.3537
per  U.S. dollar  today at 3:25 p.m. Mexico City time.  Enrique Pena Nieto, of the Institutional Revolutionary
Party, or PRI, is favored to win the presidency in July 1
balloting by at least 10 percentage points, and his party may
garner enough seats to give him a majority in both houses of
congress, polls show. Pena Nieto says he supports legislation to
make it easier to hire and fire workers and would create
incentives to bring more workers into the formal economy.  The market is anxious “to see how the congress is made up
and if they can make progress on the structural reforms,” said
 Carlos Gonzalez , an equity analyst with Monex Casa de Bolsa SA
in Mexico City. “The economic variables are stable. We don’t
expect anything that could generate volatility.”  Pena Nieto, 45, also has pledged to expand private
investment in the oil industry, loosening state-controlled
Petroleos Mexicanos’s grip.  Spain, Italy  Mexico’s stocks joined a global rally today after euro-area
leaders agreed to relax conditions on emergency loans for
Spanish banks and possible help for  Italy .  While the latest poll from Consulta Mitofsky shows Pena
Nieto’s PRI-Green Party coalition may garner a majority in both
houses of Congress, the survey shows him short of a two-thirds
majority, signaling he would have to build coalitions to win
approval for the constitutional changes needed for the pledged
energy industry changes. The poll’s margin of error is 3.1
percentage points. Mitofsky interviewed 1,000 registered voters
from June 22 to June 24.  The IPC’s gains have also been buoyed by the planned
purchase of one of the index’s biggest companies. Anheuser-Busch
InBev NV, the world’s biggest brewer, agreed to buy the
remainder of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB for $20.1 billion in
cash, gaining full control of the Corona maker to increase its
presence in  emerging markets .  Modelo soared 20 percent this week on reports leading up to
today’s announcement. Modelo has a 3.3 percent weighting on the
IPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  