-- Iran Says It Has ‘Inalienable Right’ to Enrich Uranium
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-29T20:41:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/iran-says-it-has-inalienable-right-to-enrich-uranium.html
Iran  is declaring that it has an
“inalienable right” to enrich uranium, reasserting a stand
that is rejected by world powers and may prevent a deal to
resolve Western suspicions it seeks to build nuclear weapons.  Iran’s ambassador to the  United Nations ,  Mohammad Khazaee ,
said in  New York  today that Iran’s position is that
international law and the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty
guarantee its right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes and
allow it to obtain nuclear-related technology from any country
that’s signed the treaty.  The U.S. and its allies have said the treaty provides
general assurances about the peaceful use of civilian nuclear
technology, in compliance with international safeguards, not the
specific right to enrich asserted by Iran. The enrichment
process produces fuel for use in electric power reactors or,
with further processing, for nuclear bombs.  Reading from a letter he said was sent yesterday to
European Union foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton by Iran’s
chief nuclear negotiator, Saeed Jalili, Khazaee said Iran was
ready to “provide specific proposals” for talks planned July 3
in Istanbul with technical experts representing  China , France,
Germany, Russia, the U.K. and U.S.  “Any gesture which damages the confidence building process
would be counterproductive” and Iranian officials will give an
“appropriate and proportional response,” Jalili wrote in the
letter, a reference to an EU embargo on imports of Iranian oil
sales effective July 1.  Khazaee said economic sanctions on Iran will lead to a
“standoff” in negotiations.  Talks Stalled  High-level talks between world powers and Iran stalled this
month in Moscow. A central issue in the negotiations is whether
Iran will stop producing 20 percent enriched uranium, a level of
purity a step short of bomb grade, and move current stockpiles
out of the country to show it isn’t seeking the capability to
produce nuclear weapons.  No date was set for resumption of the high-level
negotiations, pending the outcome of the technical-level talks.
Both  Israel  and the U.S. have threatened military strikes
against Iran’s enrichment facilities if Iran fails to agree to
steps to ensure it won’t be able to develop nuclear weapons
capabilities.  Israel has demanded that Iran to give up all  uranium
enrichment  so that it would not have the capability to produce
bomb material. Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak said on May
30 that Iran must be stopped before it develops a nuclear weapon
and warned that the clock is “ticking faster” for Israel than
it is for the U.S.  Sanctions Dispute  Khazaee said that if Western nations lift their unilateral
and multilateral sanctions, Iran will discuss their concerns
about an alleged military dimension to  Iran’s nuclear program .
Iran isn’t attempting to make nuclear weapons, he said.  The U.S. and EU have said they will not drop or ease
sanctions until there is a deal with Iran that resolves the
nuclear issues. Ashton said June 25 that EU sanctions on oil
imports from Iran will begin on July 1 as agreed by the bloc’s
governments.  Iran is the No. 2 producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , and earns more than half
of its government revenue from oil sales, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The EU collectively was the second-
largest buyer of Iranian oil after China in the first half of
2011, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  