-- Irish Get Seismic Shift as Banking Deadlock Breaks: Euro Credit
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-06-29T09:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/irish-get-seismic-shift-as-banking-deadlock-breaks-euro-credit.html
Ireland’s bid to avoid a second
bailout may be buttressed by what Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
called a seismic shift in European policy.  After 13 1/2 hours of talks ending at 4:30 a.m. in Brussels
today, leaders of the 17 euro countries opened the door to
recapitalizing  banks  directly with the European Stability
Mechanism, instead of through the government, once Europe sets
up a single banking supervisor.  “The fundamental principle of the ESM providing the
funding to break the link between the sovereign and the bank has
now been established,” Kenny said after the summit.  Kenny said the burden on Irish taxpayers may be eased by
the accord as what seemed “unachievable has now become a
reality.” Ireland’s ambition to regain economic sovereignty and
borrow in the  bond market  after an almost two-year absence had
been cast into doubt by the  European debt crisis . Before the
meeting of leaders, investors fretted that  Italy  might have to
follow  Spain  in seeking aid.  Kenny has been pressing European leaders to share the
burden of rescuing Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and is pushing the
 European Central Bank  to commit to funding the financial system.  Irish October 2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, rose
today, with the yield falling 41 basis points to 6.70 percent,
about a percentage point shy of the level that pushed the state
into an international rescue in 2010.  ‘Can’t Cope’  With the debt crisis intensifying, German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  gave in on expanded steps to stem the market turmoil.  Once an “effective” bank-supervisory system is set up,
the ESM could, “following a regular decision, have the
possibility to recapitalize banks directly,” according to the
summit statement. Kenny said there will be now be an opportunity
to “reengineer” the Anglo Irish debt.  “I’m a little worried about the absence of detail here and
the timetable looks very ambitious, but this doesn’t detract
from the big picture signal and it’s a major change in the
crisis approach,” said  Harvinder Sian , a senior fixed-income
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .
“Merkel gets oversight of banks, and Spain and Ireland get
freebie loans that don’t hurt sovereign balance sheets.”  Relief for Ireland may not be instant, as joint EU banking
supervision, seen as a way to make oversight more independent of
national regulators, takes time. The EU will consider proposals
by the end of 2012, according to the statement.  Irish Environment Minister Phil Hogan told national
broadcaster RTE on June 27 that he hoped the summit will help
them understand that the nation “can’t cope with its banking
debt on top of its sovereign borrowings.”  Debt Load  The cost of rescuing the banking system will push the
country’s debt this year to 116 percent of gross domestic
product, compared with a euro-region average of 92 percent,
according to European Commission figures.  Ireland experienced the costliest banking crisis among
advanced economies since the Great Depression, according to the
 International Monetary Fund . The state last sold bonds in
September 2010, as investors started to shun the government’s
debt amid concern that the scale of the banking crisis could tip
the country into bankruptcy.  With the economy stabilizing after shrinking about 15
percent since 2007, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  sketched out
a plan in December to return to international credit markets.  The country’s debt agency would begin with a sale of short-
term Treasury bills in the third quarter, followed by a return
to longer-term debt markets later this year. That would presage
a full re-entry to the markets in the middle of next year.  IMF Estimates  The current Irish aid program runs out at the end of 2013.
The IMF estimates Ireland will need to raise about 14 billion
euros ($17.6 billion) next year in addition to the rescue funds.
A complication is that Irish borrowing costs are above the 5
percent rate that analysts say is the limit of sustainability.  Without a bank deal, the nation is headed for a second
bailout, analysts said.  The cost to insure against Ireland defaulting using five-
year credit-default swaps fell 32 basis points to 580 today,
according to data provider CMA. That implies about a 40 percent
probability of the nation failing to meet its obligations within
five years. Swaps to cover Spanish debt cost 550 basis points
and 505 for Italy.  Kenny wrote in a June 7 letter to EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  that more must be done to “break the vicious circle
between the sovereign and banking crisis.”  Anglo Irish  The Irish campaign centers around three elements. First,
the government wants European help to refinance the rescue of
Anglo Irish. While the government has agreed to pay off the
lender’s debts to the ECB over a decade, it wants to spread the
payments over a longer time, potentially by accessing a loan
from Europe’s new bailout funds.  Second, the government wants an ECB commitment to provide
medium-term funding for the banking system. Third, it wants help
to strip unprofitable home loans from Irish banks to clean them
up and ready them for a future sale. The government controls
three of the four biggest domestic banks.  “Some caution is needed given the fact that as ever in
 Europe , nothing will happen immediately,” analysts at the
fixed-income firm Glas Securities in Dublin said in a note.
“All that needs to be decided now is who underwrites this
all.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  