-- J&J’s Synthes Deal Harmed Investors, Lawyer Tells Court
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-29T16:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/j-j-s-synthes-deal-harmed-investors-lawyer-says.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s $21.3 billion
buyout of Synthes Inc. shortchanged the medical-device maker’s
investors while improperly benefiting its chairman, a lawyer
argued in court.  Synthes Chairman Hansjoerg Wyss, the company’s controlling
shareholder, engineered the J&J buyout to meet his retirement
needs rather than to get the highest price for the maker of
devices to treat trauma victims, Andrew Abramowitz, an attorney
for two pension funds suing over the deal, told Delaware
Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine today.  Wyss “put his unique concerns ahead of the interests of
other shareholders,” Abramowitz said at a hearing in
Wilmington.  J&J, the world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products, said June 12 that it entered into accelerated buyback
agreements for about $12.9 billion in shares with Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. to help pay for the
cash-and-stock acquisition of Synthes. U.S. antitrust regulators
gave clearance for the deal earlier this month.  Synthes shareholders are to receive about 55.65 Swiss
francs ($58.66) and about 1.72 J&J shares for each share they
own. The shares of  West Chester , Pennsylvania-based  Synthes 
trade in  Switzerland , Wyss’s home country.  Trauma Market  J&J will gain a dominant position in the trauma market with
the acquisition, officials of the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-
based company said when the deal was announced in April 2011.
Synthes has 50 percent of the market for sales of screws,
plates, bone grafts and other products to treat skeletal
injuries, Navid Malik, now an analyst with  Cenkos Securities (CNKS)  Plc
in  London , told Bloomberg News in an interview last year.  Synthes also agreed in May 2011 to sell its Norian unit,
which pleaded guilty to felony and misdemeanor criminal charges
for conducting an unauthorized trial of its bone-mending cement
as part of its marketing efforts, to Kensey Nash Corp. for
$22 million. Kensey Nash, a maker of absorbable cardiac medical
devices, is a unit of Netherlands-based  Royal DSM NA. (DSM)   Four Synthes executives pleaded guilty in connection with
the bone-cement marketing campaign and received sentences
ranging from five months to nine months in jail. Prosecutors
alleged the officials marketed the cement for spinal fractures
even after studies showed it caused blood clots.  Retirement Plan  Wyss, Synthes’s founder, sought to sell the company so he
could retire and become a philanthropist, lawyers for investors,
including a Massachusetts-based pension  fund  and another
retirement fund backed by the  Teamsters Union , contend in court
papers.  Instead of taking higher offers from unidentified private-
equity firms, Wyss pushed Synthes’s board to back J&J’s offer so
he could sell his shares and gain favorable tax advantages,
shareholders’ attorneys argue.  Other board members never required Wyss to step aside in
the sales negotiations, even with his conflicting interests, the
lawyers said.  Lawyers for Synthes directors countered in court filings
that board members properly used their business judgment to
evaluate the different offers and the $21.3 billion deal
provides a 26 percent premium to investors.  Company Arguments  The board’s attorneys said in court filings that Synthes
directors shopped the company around for the best price and that
Wyss didn’t have an improper interest in the sale.  “At the end of the day, Mr. Wyss received the same
consideration as any other shareholder,” Alan Goudiss, a New
York-based lawyer for Synthes, told Strine at today’s hearing.  Strine, who said he’d decide the case by September, agreed
with Goudiss’s contention that shareholders couldn’t show Wyss
received more than he was entitled to in the buyout.  “You’ve failed to show how Wyss took something for himself
that was different from the other shareholders,” the judge told
Abramowitz.  The case is In Re Synthes Inc. Shareholder Litigation v.
Wyss, CA6452,  Delaware  Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 