-- Japan’s Industrial Output Falls Most Since 2011 Quake
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-06-29T03:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/japan-s-industrial-output-falls-most-since-2011-quake.html
Japan ’s industrial output fell the
most since the March 2011 earthquake and consumer prices
declined, bolstering the case for extra stimulus to sustain the
nation’s economic recovery.  Production declined 3.1 percent in May from April, the
Trade Ministry said in Tokyo today. A holiday may have played a
role and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley cited post-quake
difficulties in seasonal adjustments. Consumer prices excluding
fresh food fell 0.1 percent in May from a year earlier.  Weakness in European demand limited automobile output,
underscoring the risk to  Asia  from the region’s crisis as euro-
area leaders grapple with limiting the spread of sovereign-debt
woes. Production of transportation equipment -- including
automobiles -- slumped 11.1 percent in May, the biggest drag on
output overall.  “Today’s report confirmed that production has entered a
soft patch,” said Satoshi Osanai, an economist at Daiwa 
Institute of Research in Tokyo. “A slowdown in global demand, 
especially in  Europe  and Asia, may weigh on production.”  The decline in output compared with the median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey for a 2.8 percent drop. The government
cited weakness in European demand for automobiles. The slide in
production was 0.2 percent the previous month.  The jobless rate declined to 4.4 percent in May, according
to a separate report.  Bank of Japan (8301)  officials next meet on July
11 and 12 to review the need for more stimulus.  Asian Stocks Rise  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1 percent at 12:06 p.m. in
Tokyo after euro-area leaders agreed to drop the condition that
their governments get preferred creditor status for emergency
loans to Spanish banks.  Elsewhere in Asia, Chinese central bank governor  Zhou
Xiaochuan  said that  China  will fine-tune its economic policies
in a “timely and appropriate” manner, as the statistics bureau
reported that industrial profits fell for a second month in May.  Vietnam  reported that its economy expanded 4.66 percent in
the three months ending June from a year earlier, signaling
growth may fall short of a target this year.  South Korea  indicated yesterday that it’s preserving fiscal
firepower for worsening economic conditions
after a cut to the nation’s growth forecast. The government’s
8.5 trillion won ($7.4 billion) of economic support measures
announced yesterday, including assistance for small businesses
and low-income earners, leaves room for a bigger response if
conditions deteriorate, said Choi Sang Mok, a director-general
at the  finance ministry .  The nation today reported higher-than-forecast industrial
output for May.  Threat to Exports  In Japan, the government’s 20 trillion yen ($252 billion)
in spending to rebuild areas devastated by the disaster has
supported three straight quarters of economic growth. The risk
now is that Europe’s debt crisis and strength in the yen cut
exports and damp the recovery just as the boost from public
spending fades.  Manufacturers plan to increase production by 2.7 percent
this month and 2.4 percent in July, a government survey of
companies released by the trade ministry showed.  While government subsidies for purchases of fuel-efficient
cars have bolstered spending and production, those gains may
fade. The program may expire by August, according to Daiwa.  The earthquake and tsunami last year choked production at
manufacturers such as  Renesas Electronics Corp. (6723)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , causing the world’s third-largest economy to contract 0.8
percent.  Growth Forecasts  The annualized expansion of 4.7 percent in the January-
March period will slow to 2 percent in the second quarter and
1.6 percent in the third quarter of this year, according to the
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Concerns that overseas demand will slump further is
exacerbated by a yen that has risen 5.4 percent since mid-March,
eroding sales and profits for exporters such as  Honda Motor Co. (7267) 
The currency traded at 79.32 per dollar as of 9:46 a.m. in
Tokyo.  In the U.S. today, economists surveyed by Bloomberg predict
the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
consumer sentiment, will drop to 74.1 for June, the lowest level
of the year and matching the preliminary reading.  In Europe, economic releases span gross domestic product in
 France , retail sales in Germany and euro region inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in  Tokyo  at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  