-- Japan Clean Energy Funding to Double as Incentives Start
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-06-29T06:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/japan-clean-energy-funding-to-double-as-incentives-start.html
Renewable energy investments in
Japan may double as companies from mobile phone provider
 Softbank Corp. (9984)  to battery maker  GS Yuasa Corp. (6674)  take advantage of
government payment incentives beginning July 1.  The government initiative will require utilities to buy
power from renewable energy providers at premium prices under
so-called feed-in tariffs. As a result, investment in solar,
wind and other forms of clean energy may jump to $17.1 billion
from $8.6 billion in 2011, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
estimates.  “The level of interest in clean energy is at its highest
ever,”  Yugo Nakamura , an analyst at New Energy Finance said.
“The national government has shown strong commitment to
renewables by setting generous feed-in tariff rates.”  The tariffs are part of efforts to cut Japan’s dependence
on nuclear power following the Fukushima disaster last year,
which forced the closure of all reactors in the country for
safety checks. They also aim to curb a surge in imports of
fossil fuels to switch on non-nuclear plants that cost utilities
an additional 2.3 trillion yen ($29 billion) in the year ended
March 2012 and pushed the country into a trade deficit for the
first time since 1980.  Industry researchers and business lobby groups say the
generosity of the subsidy, which is paid for by consumers in
higher electricity bills, will require frequent reviews to
prevent a boom and bust scenario that played out in  Europe .  Scaling Back  Germany ,  Italy ,  Spain ,  France  and the U.K. are scaling back
feed-in tariffs for solar energy after a bigger than expected
boom in installations made the subsidies unsustainable.  Japan should consider cutting solar tariffs every month or
two, setting a cap on installations and matching tariffs with
international levels, said Kenji Asano, a researcher who studies
renewable energy at the Central Research Institute of Electric
Power Industry in Tokyo.  “It is important not to introduce too much solar power,”
Asano said.  Geothermal power is the most ideal source of clean
energy for Japan, he said.  The earthquake and tsunami that crippled the station at
Fukushima last year caused radiation leaks, mass evacuations and
power shortages, splitting politicians and industry leaders
about the future of atomic energy.  New Plan  Noda on June 16 approved restarting two reactors. No
timetable has been set for restarting any of the country’s 48
other reactors offline.  The government in  Tokyo  is debating long-term policies on
where it will derive power, with a final decision due in August.  “The new energy blue print will paint an ambitious plan to
increase power supply from renewables from 10 percent in 2010 to
25-35 percent by 2030,” BNEF said in a report.  For solar, the subsidized rate utilities pay is 42 yen (53
cents) a kilowatt-hour for 20 years, about triple the rate
industry users pay for conventionally-generated power. Wind gets
23.1 yen per kilowatt-hour for 20 years. The incentives also
cover biomass, geothermal and small hydroelectric plants.  “There should be a regular review of the program including
the possibility of scrapping the program,”  Keidanren,   Japan ’s
most powerful business lobby, said on June 1 in reference to the
feed-in tariffs.  Softbank, Japan’s third largest mobile phone company, will
begin operations at a 2.1 megawatt-facility in Kyoto prefecture
and a 2.4-megawatt station in Gunma July 1. It plans to build
several plants with more than 200 megawatts of solar capacity,
according to the company’s renewable energy unit SB Energy Corp.  “We are getting more and more inquiries,” said Yasushi
Yamamoto, a spokesman for GS Yuasa, which makes power
conditioners that convert direct current from solar panels into
alternating current suitable for the  power grid . “We are
preparing to produce about twice as much as last year.”  Worker Shortage  Solar projects could be delayed by shortages of workers and
power conditioners,  Takashi Watanabe , who led research on feed-
in tariffs for Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in Tokyo, said in a June
18 report. There are a limited number of manufacturers of power
conditioners used in large-scale projects and delivery is three
to six months, the note said.  The majority of solar projects will begin in the second
half of the fiscal year, between October and March, the Goldman
report said.  “There could be a shortage of workers” because work on
other projects that depend on government funding hits peak
between January and March, the Goldman Sachs analysts said.  The current tariffs will be good until March 31, 2013.  The industry minister will set the terms and rates paid
each year, or every six months if necessary. Costs will be
passed on to consumers in the form of surcharges, which the
government estimates will total 87 yen ($1.10) a month for
average households.  “Feed-in tariff is the first step,” said BNEF’s Nakamura.
“But that is not enough,” he said, adding that the cost of
clean energy must decline, deregulation is needed and grid
infrastructure needs to be upgraded.  “Geothermal has the potential if Japan pushes through
deregulation,” Asano said. “It is good for Japan because it is
not intermittent” like power from solar and wind.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  