-- Jefferson County Can’t Divert Bond Payments, Judge Rules
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-29T22:27:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/jefferson-county-can-t-divert-bond-payments-judge-rules-1-.html
Alabama ’s bankrupt Jefferson County
can’t reduce payments to bondholders so it can spend more on its
aging sewage system, or pay legal fees, a federal judge ruled.  The ruling is a victory for bondholders, shielding them
from reduced payments while Jefferson County remains in
bankruptcy and tries to win approval for a so-called plan of
adjustment. Such plans attempt to match a public agency’s debt
with income from taxes and revenue from water and sewer
payments. No municipality has ever won court approval for a plan
that cuts principal payments to bondholders.  “Operating expenses as determined under the indenture do
not include (1) a reserve for depreciation, amortization, or
future expenditures, or (2) an estimate for professional fees
and expenses,”  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Thomas B. Bennett
wrote in the opinion.  Bondholders are owed more than $3 billion, debt that is
backed by the payments made by business and residents in
Alabama’s biggest county. The bondholders, led by their trustee,
 Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , have filed multiple legal attacks
against Jefferson County since the municipality filed its
Chapter 9 case in November.  The county filed the biggest municipal bankruptcy in the
U.S. after elected officials and creditors failed to implement a
proposal to cut the sewer debt by about $1 billion.  Split Revenue  Bennett made his ruling on the bond payments following a
three-day hearing in early April in Birmingham during which the
county and its creditors debated the definition of “necessary
operating expenses.” The phrase is used in the U.S.  Bankruptcy
Code  and governs how to split revenue between bondholders and
public agencies that borrow money to build assets like water-
treatment plants.  For decades, municipal bond lawyers, analysts and  ratings
agencies  assumed that the definition was narrow and required
cash from water bills or similar payments, to be turned over to
bondholders after deducting specific expenses spelled out in
bond contracts, said Matt Fabian, a managing director at
Municipal Market Advisors in Concord,  Massachusetts .  The bondholder trustee asked Bennett to force the county to
turn over all sewer revenue except for the money needed to pay
expenses listed in the bond contract, known as an indenture.  ‘Project Expenditures’  The county argued that under the bankruptcy code, it has
the power to withhold money for items opposed by the trustee,
including “project expenditures” to keep the sewage system up
to date with changing laws or industry standards.  The bankruptcy is tied to a sewer refinancing tainted by
political corruption. In 2009, JPMorgan agreed to a $722 million
settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission over
payments its bankers allegedly made to people tied to county
politicians to win business.  The case is In re Jefferson County, 11-05736-9, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Alabama (Birmingham).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  