-- Jefferies Said to Seek Top Dealing Rank at Metals Bourse
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-06-29T17:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/jefferies-said-to-seek-top-dealing-rank-at-metals-bourse.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank that bought Prudential Bache’s commodities business, is
seeking the right to trade on the floor of the London Metal
Exchange, said a person with direct knowledge of the matter.  Jefferies is preparing an application for a Category 1
membership at the 135-year-old bourse, the world’s largest
metals exchange, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the move hasn’t been made public. As a Category 2
member, the New York-based company is limited to trading
electronically and by telephone.  Jefferies, run by Chief Executive Officer  Richard Handler ,
added more than than 400  employees  through its purchase of the
Bache unit, which was completed in July 2011 and operates in New
York, Chicago, London, Hong Kong and Hamburg. The move bolstered
Jefferies’s clearing and execution broker services in commodity
derivatives, foreign exchange, base and precious metals, Handler
said last year.  If approved by the LME, Jefferies will join 12 companies,
including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Barclays Plc (BARC) , that transact
on the exchange’s floor. The firms deal in the so-called ring,
London’s last open-outcry trading floor, which allows brokers to
handle larger volumes and appeals to some customers, said Robin Bhar, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London.  “A lot of orders still go to the floor,” Bhar said today
in a telephone interview. “It’s not as important as it was 10
years ago, but I think at least half of the day’s volume
probably goes through the floor.”  ‘Global Opportunity’  Chris Evans , a spokesman for the LME, declined to comment
on Jefferies’s status.  The LME handled trades in aluminum, copper, tin, nickel,
zinc, lead, steel billet, cobalt and molybdenum valued at $15.4
trillion last year, according to its  website.  The exchange’s
 Category 2  members include  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , according
to the website.  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., the world’s fifth-
largest equity market, agreed on June 15 to pay 1.39 billion
pounds ($2.2 billion) for the LME. The Asian exchange pledged to
keep the London bourse’s ring and system of establishing metals
prices until at least 2015.  The International Petroleum Exchange and the London
International Financial Futures & Options Exchange have already
shut trading floors.  Michael Frawley, former global head of metals at Newedge
USA LLC, left the firm to join Jefferies, a person familiar with
the matter said earlier this month. Frawley, who worked for more
than two decades at Newedge, is a former board member of the
LME. Newedge is also a Category 1 member.  Brian Friedman , chairman of Jefferies’s executive
committee, said this month the company is taking advantage of
the “global opportunity” to expand its commodities and metals
businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  