-- Juncker Won’t Accept New Term Unless Mersch Gets ECB Post
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-06-29T14:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/juncker-won-t-accept-new-term-unless-mersch-gets-ecb-post-1-.html
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean- Claude Juncker said he won’t accept appointment to another term
as head of the group of euro-area finance ministers unless Yves Mersch, Luxembourg’s central-bank chief, is named to a seat on
the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.  “I would be ready to prolong my mandate for six months
because of the acute crisis situation that we face,” Juncker
told reporters today in Brussels after a meeting of European
leaders. “But because the heads of state and government were
not able to appoint Mr. Mersch as a member of the ECB board
today, I told the ladies and gentlemen that as long as Mr.
Mersch isn’t appointed, I will not accept the nomination
proposal.”  Euro-area leaders, who today concluded a two-day summit in
Brussels, have so far failed to nominate a successor on the
ECB’s six-member board for  Spain ’s Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo,
whose eight-year term concluded at the end of May. ECB President
 Mario Draghi  sent a letter to European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  on June 18 urging him to fill the vacant position
quickly to ensure the institution functions effectively.  “It is highly likely that we can take decisions in the
beginning of the month of July,”  Van Rompuy  told a press
conference today. “We were not complete as a euro-zone summit
by the end of our meeting at noon, and the German Chancellor had
to leave because she has a debate in the Bundestag. So we
couldn’t take a decision because we have to be with 17 to take
decisions on appointments.”  Juncker said he expects a decision by July 9 at the latest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jones Hayden at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net  