-- KB Home Jumps the Most in Three Years After Loss Narrows
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-06-29T20:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/kb-home-has-narrower-quartelry-loss-as-home-sales-climb.html
KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based
homebuilder that targets first-time buyers, rose the most in
three years after reporting a narrower quarterly loss as it sold
more houses at higher prices.  The net loss for the fiscal second quarter ended May 31 was
$24.1 million, or 31 cents a share, compared with a loss of
$68.5 million, or 89 cents, a year earlier, the company said
today in a statement. The average of 18  estimates  in a Bloomberg
survey was for a loss of 35 cents a share.  Record-low borrowing costs and a dwindling inventory of
houses on the market are helping to strengthen U.S. new-home
sales. Purchases of new U.S. houses rose in May to a two-year
high, the Commerce Department said this week. Contracts to buy
previously owned homes rose 5.9 percent last month, matching a
two-year high reached in March, the National Association of
Realtors reported.  “The overall housing market appears to have largely
stabilized and is moving into a period of recovery,” KB Home
Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a conference
call today. “Dynamics have improved significantly over the past
90 days, as compared to late last year, or early this year, with
declining inventory levels and heightened consumer demand.”  Shares Jump  The shares climbed 13 percent to $9.80 at the close of
trading in New York, the biggest advance since March 2009. The
stock was the best performer of the 11-member Standard and
Poor’s 1500 Homebuilding Index, which  gained  4.8 percent.  KB Home’s rally reduced the stock’s decline for the past 12
months to 2.8 percent. That’s still the worst performance in the
S&P index, which has surged 43 percent.  KB Home has had  losses  in eight of the last 10 quarters.
The second-quarter loss included $9.9 million in costs tied to
inventory impairments, and a $4.5 million tax benefit. The year-
earlier period included $20.6 million in inventory impairments
and land option contract abandonments and costs of $14.6 million
related to the company’s investment in a Henderson, Nevada,
development.  Selling Prices  KB Home’s revenue for the quarter climbed 11 percent to
$302.9 million. Home deliveries rose 2 percent to 1,290 houses.
The average selling price jumped 9 percent to $233,000.  Orders increased 3 percent from a year earlier to 2,049
houses. Backlog, an indication of future sales, climbed 22
percent from a year earlier to 2,962 homes.  While KB Home is getting a boost from rising  demand ,
customers have struggled to get financing. In March, the company
made  Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. (NSM)  its preferred lender
after  MetLife Inc. (MET)  announced earlier this year that it would
shut its origination operation. Nationstar began accepting loan
applications in May.  KB Home said in today’s statement that its transition to
Nationstar is “progressing as planned” and will result in
“improved mortgage origination execution” for homebuyers. In
the first quarter, cancellations spiked because customers had
problems getting financing, the company said at the time.  “Apparently the new arrangement with Nationstar Mortgage
is working, so that’s a positive,” Michael Widner, an analyst
with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore, said today in a note to
clients. “But we had kind of hoped maybe some of the would-be-
sales from last quarter’s shortfall would get pushed into this
quarter as the ability to provide financing improved.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  