-- Kenya Inflation Slows, Bolstering Case for Lower Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-29T14:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/kenya-inflation-slows-bolstering-case-for-lower-rates.html
Kenyan  inflation  slowed to a 15-
month low in June, adding pressure on the central bank to cut
its benchmark interest rate for the first time since January
last year.  The inflation rate in  East Africa ’s largest economy
declined for the seventh straight month to 10.1 percent from
12.2 percent in May, the  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics
said today in an e-mailed statement. In the month, prices fell
0.8 percent, as food costs, which carry a 36 percent weighting
in the  consumer price index , declined 1.9 percent and transport
prices including fuel dropped 0.4 percent, the agency said.  Inflation is down from a peak of nearly 20 percent in
November, backing the view that the central bank has room to
lower  borrowing costs  and help support an economy the World Bank
says is vulnerable to global and local shocks. The Monetary
Policy Council brought forward its next meeting by five days to
July 5, it said on its website today, without giving a reason.  “It’s clear that economic growth is slowing a bit because
of tighter credit,” Solomon Alubala, a trader at Cooperative
Bank of Kenya Ltd., said by phone from Nairobi, the capital.
“That’s increasing pressure on the central bank.”  Kenya’s central bank raised its benchmark  interest rate  to
a record 18 percent last year to curb price gains and support
the shilling, and has kept it there this year.  The bank has signaled it’s waiting to see whether seasonal
rains after last year’s drought will boost harvests and ease
inflation pressures, and assessing the threat of rising oil
prices. Kenya relies on imported fuel for all of its needs.  Inflation Target  Inflation exceeds the 9 percent target the government set
for the fiscal year ending this month, making it more difficult
to predict what the central bank will decide at its next rates
meeting, Chuba Ogbue, treasurer at UBA Kenya Bank Ltd., said
yesterday by phone from Nairobi.  The bank may refrain from a rate cut in a bid to alleviate
depreciation pressure on the currency stemming from the widening
gap in the current account, Alubala said. Kenya’s current
account deficit is forecast to balloon to 15 percent of gross
domestic product this year, one of the world’s biggest,
according to the  World Bank , from 13.1 percent of GDP last year.  Consumption should drive Kenya’s economy to grow 5 percent
next year, although expansion could slow to 4.1 percent in the
event of global financial shocks or domestic political upheaval
before next year’s election, the World Bank said June 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 