-- King Says Banks Need to Improve Capital as Crisis Hurts Recovery
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-29T10:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/king-says-banks-need-to-improve-capital-as-crisis-hurts-recovery.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the deteriorating outlook for financial stability is
holding back the U.K. economic recovery and banks should build
bigger capital cushions and be ready to use liquid buffers.  “Uncertainty and tighter credit conditions have acted as
strong headwinds to our recovery,” King said at a press
conference in  London  today. U.K. policy makers continue “to
believe that there is a need for banks temporarily to raise
their levels of capital in view of the exceptional threats they
currently face.”  The bank’s 11-member Financial Policy Committee unveiled
five recommendations to enhance the safety of Britain’s banking
system, saying that capital buffers may need to temporarily
exceed requirements implied by the transition to Basel III
standards. The panel said regulators should make clearer that
banks can use liquid asset buffers in the event of stress.  “The crisis in the euro area has generated a great deal of
uncertainty around the economic outlook and exposed severe
vulnerabilities in the European banking system,” King said.
“That’s been reflected in higher funding costs for banks and
higher  interest rates  for households and corporates.”  Euro-area leaders today agreed to ease repayment rules for
emergency loans to Spanish banks and relax conditions on
possible help for  Italy  in measures to stem the region’s debt
crisis. Disruption that could be caused from the euro area poses
a “significant threat” to Britain’s financial stability, the
Bank of England said.  Worse Outlook  “The outlook for financial stability has deteriorated,
particularly in light of heightened uncertainty about how and
when euro-area risks will be resolved,” the FPC said in a
statement on the recommendations that followed its June 22
meeting. “Progress in building capital has slowed and market-
based measures of capital adequacy have fallen.”  Among the recommendations, officials also said that banks
should continue to restrain cash dividends and pay in order to
build equity, while also starting work this year to improve
accounting standards, including reconciliation of accounting and
regulatory measures of capital.  The committee said banks should “work to assess, manage
and mitigate specific risks to their balance sheets stemming
from current and future potential stress in the euro area.”  U.K. bank exposures to sovereigns and banks in
“vulnerable” countries such as  Greece , Ireland, Italy,  Spain 
and  Portugal  are “low,” totaling 12 billion pounds ($18.7
billion) and 30 billion pounds respectively.  ‘Secondary Channels’  Total gross exposures to private sector borrowers in those
countries are about 145 billion pounds, or 70 percent of banks’
core tier 1 capital. British lenders have exposures of 30
billion pounds to  Germany ’s banking industry and 60 billion
pounds to  France ’s, the central bank said. U.K. institutions
could “face disruption through secondary channels.”  “The direct impact of a Greek exit and associated
redenomination appear likely to be manageable,” the panel said,
“But some other banking sectors are more exposed.”  The central bank has activated its Extended Collateral Term
Repo facility to aid institutions in times of stress. U.K. banks
are able to use pre-positioned collateral for the discount
window in that facility. Pre-positioned collateral, after the
application of haircuts, would be worth 160 billion pounds as of
the end of March, the BOE said.  “The major U.K. banks have made progress in strengthening
their capital and funding resilience,” the bank said. “Since
the middle of last year however, the risks they faced have also
increased significantly.”  Too Severe  Global banking regulators have provisionally agreed on
changes to a planned rule for assets that can be easily sold in
a crisis over concern that some risk models for lenders may have
been too severe, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  discussed the
standard, known as a liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, at a
meeting last week in  Stockholm , according to the people, who
asked not to be identified because the talks are private.
Regulators changed some assumptions about what may happen to
banks in another credit crisis, the people said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  