-- King Says Libor Deceit Shows How Wrong U.K. Banking Became
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-29T14:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/king-says-libor-deceit-shows-how-very-wrong-u-k-banking-became.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said the “deceitful manipulation” of Libor reveals wider
cultural flaws in Britain’s banking system, as officials warned
bank chiefs need to rebuild trust.  “Everyone now understands that something went very wrong
with the U.K. banking industry,” King said at a press
conference to present the central bank’s Financial Stability
Report in  London  today. “From excessive levels of compensation,
to shoddy treatment of customers, to a deceitful manipulation of
one of the most important  interest rates , we can see that we
need a real change in the culture of the industry.”  King spoke at the end of week in which Britain’s four
biggest lenders admitted to mis-selling derivatives to clients
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  was fined $451 million for manipulating the
London interbank offered rate. Barclays Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  is under pressure from lawmakers to quit. King
and his officials were questioned by reporters today on whether
bank chiefs are “fit and proper” to run their institutions.  “We’re not going to comment on fitness and properness of
anybody in this context,” said  Andrew Bailey , who will become
head of U.K. banking supervision at the Financial Services
Authority next month. “If we now see there is a fundamental
breakdown of trust, then the boards of these institutions have
to recognize that that trust has to be got back, and they have
to think very hard about how that is done.”  Vickers Report  King said the Libor revelations helped reinforce the
argument of why the U.K. government must implement as soon as
possible the proposals from John Vickers’s Independent
Commission on Banking, which recommended banks separate their
consumer and investment units.  “What is most important in my view is to think through and
implement the recommendations of the Vickers Commission so we
can go as far as to possible to separate basic banking on one
hand and  investment banking  on the other,” King said. “The
cultures of the two are very different and we’ve seen how
damaging it has been the consequences of the culture of one
infecting the other.”  Libor is determined by banks’ daily estimates of how much
it would cost them to borrow from one another for different time
frames and in different currencies. Because banks’ submissions
aren’t based on real trades, the potential exists for
manipulation by traders. At least a dozen firms are being probed
by regulators worldwide for colluding to rig the rate, the
benchmark for more than $360 trillion of securities, including
mortgages,  student loans  and swaps.  Cameron’s View  Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today that Barclays has
“serious questions to answer” after its fine. Chancellor of
the Exchequer  George Osborne  signalled yesterday there could be
a criminal investigation.  “People are rightly angry about the behavior of the banks,
and so am I,” Cameron said at a press conference in Brussels.
“People want to see real accountability for what has happened.
When people have broken the rules, they should face the
consequences and this needs a change of the culture.”  Diamond “and the whole management team have got some very
serious questions to answer,” Cameron said. “We need to see
trust restored.”  With other lenders facing sanctions in the libor probe, the
British Bankers’ Association is under pressure to prove the rate
is fit for purpose. The BBA, which has overseen Libor for 26
years, created a steering group of bankers and regulators in
March to consider reforms in light of the investigation.  Libor Calculation  “The idea that one can base the future calculation of
Libor on the idea that ‘my word is my Libor’ is now dead and it
will have to be based in the future, in my judgment, on actual
transactions in order to bring back credibility to the system
itself,” King said. “I very much hope that in the discussions
that are already taking place in the working group that the BBA
have convened to discuss this, we will end up with a new regime
based on actual transactions.”  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and Barclays will compensate small and medium-
sized businesses improperly sold interest-rate derivatives
following a probe by the Financial Services Authority, the
regulator said separately today.  “There is a degree of cynicism and greed that is quite
shocking,” FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said alongside King today.
“We would be fooling ourselves if we thought that some of the
behavior which were evident in the particular areas of Libor
fixing are not found in some other areas of trading activity as
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  