-- N.J. Lawmakers Approve Rutgers Plan Backed by Christie
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p   a n d   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-06-29T07:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/n-j-lawmakers-approve-rutgers-plan-backed-by-christie.html
New Jersey  lawmakers agreed to
restructure the state’s higher education system in a plan
Governor  Chris Christie  said would take  Rutgers University 
“from good to great.”  Rutgers, the state university based in New Brunswick, will
take over the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New
Jersey. The agreement doesn’t extend to Christie’s proposal to
fold Rutgers’ Camden campus into Rowan University to form a
large research institution based in Glassboro.  Rutgers, founded in 1766, is the eighth oldest college in
the U.S. and has an enrollment of about 57,000, according to the
university’s website. The Newark-based medical school has about
7,000 students. Christie said the reorganization would help New
Jersey become a leader in medical education and research.  “It accomplishes exactly what I wanted to accomplish,”
the first-term Republican said of the compromise reached with
Democrats and passed by the Senate and Assembly late yesterday.
“It’s going to be an enormous step forward for economic
development in this state and allow Rutgers to go from good to
great.”  The bill was sponsored in the Senate by Democrats Joseph Vitale of Woodbridge, the leader of the health committee, and
Donald Norcross of Camden, brother of George E. Norcross, a
Democratic Party leader and chairman of Cooper University
Hospital, who pressed for an overhaul in southern New Jersey.  Lower Costs  Christie, 49, said the restructuring will streamline
bureaucracy and lower costs. Rutgers will assume $665 million in
debt from the medical school and refinance it at lower rates.
Vitale said the plan, while costing $50 million to implement,
will bring savings in the future.  In addition to reshuffling the medical school, Christie had
urged lawmakers to fold Rutgers-Camden into Rowan.  Rutgers employees said the merger was politically motivated
and would weaken their school’s name recognition. In March,
Rutgers students and faculty presented lawmakers with thousands
of signatures opposing the move.  Senator Bob Smith, a Democrat who represents  New Brunswick ,
said the reorganization bill sailed through the Legislature
without a full reckoning of the changes or their costs. The
state should look to increase funding for all colleges and
universities before turning to restructuring, he said.  “I’ve been here a while and I’ve seen a lot of bad
processes developing legislation, but I have to say this is one
of the top 10 or even number one,” said Smith, who entered the
legislature in 1986. “We’ve treated higher education as a dog
in this state.”  Delay Sought  Last week, at least 10 Democratic lawmakers said they might
withhold support for the state budget unless Assembly Speaker
Sheila Oliver agreed to delay voting on the university mergers.
They later relented; all Democrats voted on June 25 in favor of
a $31.7 billion spending plan for the fiscal year that begins
July 1.  Under the new agreement, Rutgers-Camden and Rowan will
cooperate on their health-sciences programs while maintaining
separate campuses and trustees, Vitale said.  The Rutgers Board of Governors adopted a resolution
yesterday that supports the plan “in general.” The school
agreed to an effective date for the reorganization of July 1,
2013, which would allow time to study the matter before voting
on it, according to an e-mailed statement from Greg Trevor, a
Rutgers spokesman.  Norcross said the reorganization would elevate the status
of Rutgers’s campuses outside of New Brunswick.  “Satellite campuses have been underserved by a majority of
governors for the last decade in Camden and  Newark ,” he said.
“Today that changes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  