-- N.Y. Bars Add Gambling Terminals After Cuomo Pushes Law Change
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/n-y-bars-add-gambling-terminals-after-cuomo-pushes-law-change.html
Bar patrons in  New York  can now win
their fortunes while drowning their sorrows.  Neighborhood taverns are adding bingo-style terminals run
by the state lottery under a law pushed through the Legislature
this year by Governor  Andrew Cuomo .  New York Lottery,  the largest in the U.S. by sales, has put
92 of the terminals in bars since April, when a restriction
designed to keep the machines out of taverns was lifted as part
of Cuomo’s budget, said Gardner Gurney, the lottery’s deputy
director. About 500 pubs are being targeted for the Quick Draw
video terminals, he said.  “Customers get the same thrill of gambling without having
to drive to the casino,” said Richard Keeler, owner of Side
Street, the only bar in Mohawk, a central New York town with
about 2,500 residents.  Side Street, which sells no food, got its terminal six
weeks ago. The game attracts customers and keeps them there
longer, which is especially helpful in the summer, when outdoor
activities keep people away, Keeler said. Establishments hosting
the machines earn 0.6 cents on every dollar wagered.  Cuomo, a 54-year-old Democrat, joins U.S. governors from
 Colorado  to  New Jersey  in pushing for more gambling revenue. He
persuaded the Legislature this year to approve a constitutional
amendment allowing seven Las Vegas-style casinos. He’s pointed
out to voters, who must approve the amendment in a referendum,
that gambling already exists in the state at Indian-run casinos
and nine racetracks with electronic  slot machines .  Stay Longer  Quick Draw  resembles the casino game keno. Customers choose
numbers and can win from $1 to $100,000, depending on how many
they match to a drawing displayed on a video screen. There’s a
new drawing every four minutes, except between 3:30 a.m. and 4
a.m. Wagers in New York’s version start at $1, and customers can
pay with cash or credit cards. The lottery provides bar owners
with a separate register for the game.  A requirement that establishments with Quick Draw make at
least 25 percent of their sales food was part of the original
1995 law enabling the game. It was meant to overcome concerns
about gambling in bars, said Scott Wexler, the executive
director of the Empire State Restaurant and Tavern Association,
an Albany-based lobbying group.  The three governors before Cuomo all tried to have the food
prerequisite removed, and Cuomo tried to end it in last year’s
budget. This year, he was successful. Shifting attitudes about
gambling in the third-most-populous state helped, Wexler said.  More Comfortable  “People got more comfortable than they had in the past
with gambling, helped by the larger messaging about casinos,”
Wexler said in a telephone interview. “Once lawmakers agreed to
allow seven casinos, why not take the revenue from Quick Draw?”  Cuomo has said New York needs to expand its gambling
options to compete with surrounding states, including
Massachusetts and  Pennsylvania , which are moving forward with
full-scale casinos. In New Jersey, Governor  Chris Christie  wants
to legalize sports betting to lure customers to  Atlantic City ,
which has 12 casinos.  The expansion of Quick Draw to bars that don’t serve food
is projected to raise $11 million this fiscal year and $22
million every year after, said Morris Peters, a budget division
spokesman.  In the fiscal year ended March 31, the lottery took in
$8.44 billion from its games and the racetrack casinos, marking
the 12th consecutive year of record sales and earnings. The
revenue provided $2.9 billion for education, according to the
lottery.  Cuomo’s successful initiative should have come with
additional funding for programs to help gambling addicts, said
Michelle Hadden, director of prevention and training for the
Albany-based  New York Council on Problem Gambling.   “We’re concerned any time we see safeguards being
dropped,” Hadden said in a telephone interview. “Any time we
see this kind of expansion, we would want to see expansion of
services for problem gamblers. And that’s not happening.”  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to e-mails
and phone calls requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  