-- Nadal Loss to No. 100 Rosol Matches His Earliest Grand Slam Exit
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-29T00:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/nadal-loss-to-no-100-rosol-matches-his-earliest-grand-slam-exit.html
Lukas Rosol kept serving aces and
firing groundstrokes past two-time Wimbledon champion  Rafael Nadal , each shot sending the Spaniard closer to matching his his
earliest exit at a Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Undeterred by a 45-minute interruption while the Centre
Court roof was closed between the fourth and fifth sets, the
100th-ranked Rosol finished off the second-seeded Nadal 6-7
(9-11), 6-4, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 last night.  The second-round loss matched Nadal’s earliest at a major
tournament. The Czech became the lowest-ranked opponent to
defeat Nadal, an 11-time Grand Slam champion, at one of the
sport’s four biggest events.  “You play against an inspired opponent and I am out,”
Nadal said at a news conference. “It’s not a tragedy. It’s only
a tennis match. At the end, that’s life. There are much more
important things. Sure, I wanted to win, but I lost.”  Instead of folding under the pressure, Rosol was at his
best when the grass-court contest resumed with the players tied
at two sets apiece after Nadal had won the fourth set.  Rosol, 26, who had failed to make it through the qualifying
rounds at Wimbledon in five previous attempts, broke Nadal’s
serve to open the fifth set and never lost his serve or his
nerve.  Rosol hit 20 winners, including seven aces, in the fifth
set with just two unforced errors. He won his last two service
games to love, including three aces in the final game.  ‘A Miracle’  “I’m not just surprised, it’s like a miracle,” Rosol, who
finished with 22 aces, said in a televised interview. “I never
expected to play like this.”  In action today, men’s top seed Novak Djokovic of  Serbia 
continues the defense of his title against another Czech, Radek Stepanek, while six-time winner  Roger Federer  of  Switzerland 
plays  France ’s Julien Benneteau. Women’s top seed  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  faces Su-Wei Hsieh of Taipei.  Nadal, 26, had played in five consecutive Wimbledon finals,
winning the title in 2008 and 2010. He missed the tournament in
2009 because of knee tendinitis.  Having won the French Open earlier this month, the Spaniard
was trying to become the second man since tennis turned
professional in 1968 to win at  Roland Garros  and Wimbledon in
the same year three times. The left-hander won both events in
2008 and 2010, while  Sweden ’s  Bjorn Borg  won them every year
from 1978 to 1980.  Nadal struggled from the start against Rosol, saving three
set points before finishing off the first set in a tiebreaker
when Rosol dumped a forehand into the net.  Unexpected Encounter  Rosol, who was playing in his second grass-court event, won
the next two sets -- keeping his focus even after the two men
bumped into each other during a changeover in the third set.  Nadal regained the momentum in the fourth set as daylight
started to fade, breaking serve in the sixth game after he
forced Rosol into a backhand error and then evening the match.  The roof then was closed as the clock passed 8:30 p.m.  “I was playing well in the fourth,” Nadal said. “I think
I played a great fourth set. Sure, the stop this time didn’t
help me. That’s the sport.”  After the delay, Nadal dropped his serve in the opening
game and Rosol never wavered after that, striking groundstrokes
of up to 99 miles per hour (159 kilometers per hour). He
finished off the match with an ace.  “In the fifth set he played more than unbelievable,”
Nadal said. “Before, in the first three sets, I didn’t play
well.”  London Olympics  Nadal won’t have to wait a year for another shot at glory
on the lawns of the All England Club. He’ll compete at Wimbledon
in the London Olympics tennis tournament, which starts July 28.
Nadal is the defending Olympic champion.  Before that, he’ll take his first extended break since the
start of the clay-court season, in which he won titles in  Monte
Carlo ,  Barcelona ,  Rome  and a men’s record seventh championship
in Paris.  “I feel very well mentally,” Nadal said. “But
physically, you need to rest. I played for the last six months
playing almost every match possible in the tournaments that I
played. Physically I need to stop a little bit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the London sports desk at
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  