-- Nestle Audit Finds Child Labor Violations in Cocoa Supply
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y   a n d   S t a n l e y   J a m e s
-- 2012-06-29T13:51:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/nestle-must-address-child-labor-in-cocoa-supply-fla-says.html
Nestle SA (NESN)  needs to step up measures
to combat child labor in the Ivory Coast cocoa industry,
according to a study requested by the Swiss food company that
found “numerous” violations of its internal work rules.  The maker of KitKat chocolate bars needs to improve
internal monitoring to fight the practice as four-fifths of its
cocoa comes from channels for which information on labor is
opaque, the  Fair Labor Association  said in a report. Nestle
plans new monitoring programs in two cooperatives this year and
in 30 by 2016, with the FLA assessing progress, the Vevey,
Switzerland-based company said in a response.  Nestle buys about a 10th of the global cocoa production and
more than a third of that comes from the  Ivory Coast , the
world’s biggest producer. About 20 percent of the cocoa the
chocolate maker gets from that country can be traced because it
comes from Nestle’s sustainable-farming program, while the rest
comes from the “standard” supply chain, which isn’t
transparent, according to the report.  “Child labor is a more persistent problem than anybody
believed,” FLA President Auret van Heerden said by phone.
“What we’re talking about is changing the way companies in the
industry do business, and Nestle has taken the first step.”  About 89 percent of Ivory Coast children were involved in
growing cocoa, according to a 2008 government survey.  Foxconn Report  The FLA monitors and seeks to advance labor rights and
improve conditions for workers. The group highlighted violations
of Chinese  labor laws  earlier this year at Foxconn Technology
Group, a maker of Apple Inc. iPads. Nestle requested the cocoa
study when it became the first food company to join the FLA
this year.  Nestle said it aims to increase the amount of cocoa it
obtains from its sustainable farming program globally to
15 percent next year from 10 percent in 2012. The root causes
of child labor in the cocoa industry include poverty and a lack
of schools, Van Heerden said.  “The use of child labor in our cocoa supply goes against
everything we stand for,” Jose Lopez, Nestle’s head of
operations, said on a webcast. “You can be here talking about
child labor but if there’s no school, it’s not going to work.”  Regulatory Steps  The report also recommends that the Ivory Coast government
take regulatory steps to tackle child labor, introduce a
registration system for those working in agriculture and step up
monitoring. The FLA said its suggestions for Nestle are
applicable to other companies in the industry. The world’s
biggest chocolate companies include  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) , Mars Inc.
and  Hershey Co. (HSY)   Nestle needs to monitor all participants in its supply
chain and set clearer labor standards, according to the report.
The company should also bolster its supplier code and tighten
contracts, while seeking to rescue child laborers through
collaboration with local authorities and various organizations,
the FLA said.  “No company sourcing cocoa from Cote d’Ivoire can
guarantee that it doesn’t happen, but what we can promise is
that tackling child labor is a top priority for our company,”
Nestle’s Lopez said. Part of the problem, he said, is that “the
child who cannot work in the farm that provides Nestle will work
in the next farm.”  Children’s Tasks  The most common tasks carried out by children on cocoa
farms are filling plastic bags for nurseries, breaking up pods
and transporting plants, according to the FLA. Under local law,
carrying heavy loads is one of the worst forms of child labor,
and the use of machetes and knives to break pods is a hazardous
task, according to non-government organizations in the Ivory
Coast, the FLA said.  Nestle also said it’s involved in a project with the World
Cocoa Foundation to build or refurbish 40 schools in the country
within four years.  The group interviewed representatives from government and
other bodies, as well as seven suppliers that provided Nestle
with 79 percent of the beans and cocoa products the Swiss
company bought from the Ivory Coast last year. The FLA talked to
more than 500 people for the report.  “The complexity of child labor in the cocoa supply chain
means solving the problem will take years,” Nestle said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net ;
Stanley James in  Hong Kong  at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  