-- New York Fed’s Dudley Sees ‘Disappointing’ Recovery
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-06-29T12:54:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/new-york-fed-s-dudley-sees-disappointing-recovery.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
PresidentWilliam C. Dudley said the economic recovery has been
“disappointing” and that labor market progress has waned.  “After a brighter start to the year, economic momentum has
slowed in the last few months,” Dudley said in the text of
remarks delivered to the  Puerto Rico  Chamber of Commerce from
New York. “Employment growth remains positive, but has slowed
considerably of late as the economy has lost forward momentum,
and the unemployment rate remains elevated.”  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  added to
its record monetary stimulus on June 20, expanding the Fed’s
maturity-extension program known as Operation Twist through the
end of the year. Central bank officials also downgraded their
forecasts for growth and employment while noting “significant
downside risks” to the economy.  Dudley, vice chairman of the FOMC, said the “headwinds
retarding recovery” include consumer deleveraging, a lack of
credit availability, fiscal tightening and the sovereign debt
crisis in Europe. He said there is “elevated uncertainty”
about the economic outlook, which poses “challenges” in
determining how much to adjust his forecast.  “Although I have made some adjustments of late, they have
been relatively modest to date” because “more information is
needed” about issues including  Europe ’s crisis, Dudley said.
“I can imagine material data on a number of dimensions could
become available in the coming weeks and months that could lead
me to adjust my forecast further.”  Cut Forecasts  Policy makers last week cut their expectations for growth
in 2012 to a range of 1.9 percent to 2.4 percent, down from an
April prediction of 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent.  “I will be paying particularly close attention to whether
domestic momentum and hiring picks up now that the pay-back for
the mild winter is over, and whether financial conditions, which
are heavily influenced at present by developments in Europe,
ease or tighten further,” Dudley said.  The economy added 69,000 jobs in May, the slowest pace in a
year, while the unemployment rate climbed to 8.2 percent from
8.1 percent in April. Fed officials predict unemployment of 8
percent to 8.2 percent at year-end, compared with an April
projection of 7.8 percent to 8 percent. They expect joblessness
of 7.5 percent to 8 percent in 2013, up from 7.3 percent to 7.7
percent.  Dudley flagged that the FOMC used new language in its
statement last week, saying that policy makers are “prepared to
take further action as appropriate to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market
conditions in a context of  price stability .”  Jobs Focus  “I will let those words speak for themselves,” Dudley
said. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said at a Washington press
conference after the FOMC announcement that policy makers are
focusing “primarily” on the outlook for jobs in deciding
whether to ease further.  The New York Fed chief said he expects inflation to be
“slightly below” the central bank’s 2 percent target “over
the next few years” as the economy “continues to operate with
significant slack” and inflation expectations are “well-
anchored.”  “With gasoline prices now falling sharply and upward
pressures from apparel prices now appearing likely to dissipate,
I expect that inflation will decline a bit in coming months,
falling somewhat further below our 2 percent objective,” Dudley
said.  Dudley said that “a solid recovery has yet to take hold”
in Puerto Rico, where “conditions remain challenging.” Puerto
Rico’s job market is a “trouble spot” with an “unacceptably
high”  unemployment rate  of 14.8 percent, he said. Labor force
participation has also been declining, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  