-- News Corp. Publishing Profit Drop Tests Murdoch Strategy
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-29T20:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/news-corp-publishing-profit-drop-tests-murdoch-strategy.html
News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s
fondness for newspapers won’t be enough for investors to
overlook declining profit at the publishing company he plans to
spin off.  Operating income at the company’s  publishing unit , which
includes the Wall Street Journal, New York Post and Times of
 London , dropped 32 percent from fiscal 2008 to 2011, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. A shift to the Web has cut
industry advertising and circulation revenue, while News Corp.’s
entertainment units, including Fox networks and the Twentieth
Century Fox film studio, increased profit by 13 percent.  “It’s pretty clear that the publishing assets are an ice
cube,” said Don Yacktman, president of Austin, Texas-based
Yacktman Asset Management Co., the fourth-largest holder of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Class A nonvoting shares with a 4.8 percent stake. “If
you look at what’s happened in classified advertising with the
Internet, the whole industry is hurting.”  While the new company will start with cash reserves and no
debt, analysts project revenue and profit declines. For the year
that ends this month, sales at the publishing unit will drop 7
percent to $8.2 billion, estimates Brett Harriss, an analyst
with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York. Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will slide 18 percent to
$1.13 billion, he says. The New York Post loses as much as $110
million annually, he estimates.  “Times of London loses money, and so does the New York
Post,”  Ken Doctor , an analyst with Outsell Inc., a research
firm focused on the publishing industry. “Even with cash
reserves to start, they’ll have to make cuts.”  Newspaper Values  The publishing company is being spun out without debt
because it doesn’t generate enough profit to support interest
payments, according to a person familiar with the planning
discussions.  In an interview yesterday, Murdoch, 81, projected optimism
for the publishing group, suggesting that news is a valuable
commodity and mobile devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire will create new revenue sources.
While the company will cut jobs at its Australian newspapers,
overall he’s looking to invest in the business to make it grow.  ‘More Valuable’  “Our publishing business is more valuable than people give
us credit for,” Murdoch said by telephone. “There are great
digital opportunities in publishing, and net-net, around the
world, we’ll be increasing our numbers and increasing our costs
and hopefully increasing revenues as well.”  Murdoch said Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of the Wall
Street Journal, will be the “center of this whole thing.”  “We think the Wall Street Journal, which we may call the
WSJ, will be a really great global brand,” Murdoch said on CNBC
yesterday.  News Corp. shares rose 1.4 percent to $22.29 at the close
in  New York . The  shares  had gained 11 percent in the two days
after the New York-based media company first announced it was
considering a breakup.  Murdoch had long resisted splitting off the declining
publishing business, said two people familiar with the matter.
He told his lieutenants at News Corp. they hadn’t proven to him
that a standalone publishing company could survive on its own,
pointing out the company had said the opposite for months.  Newspaper Rivals  Other newspaper operations haven’t fared well on their own.
Shares of publisher  A.H. Belo Corp. (BLC)  are off 75 percent, and  E.W.
Scripps Co. (SSP)  has lost 0.7 percent since splitting from their
television siblings in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Discussions to spin off News Corp. publishing picked up in
the last few months, according to the people. After three
straight quarters that internally were viewed as evidence of
strong operations, News Corp. shares continued to lag behind
rivals. Chief Operating Officer  Chase Carey , Chief Financial
Officer David DeVoe and others concluded investors would always
discount the company due to the newspapers, said these people.  Carey and others also made the point in meetings that the
company had grown so large that high-priority decisions were
being delayed or slipping through the cracks, according to these
people. A separate newspaper and publishing company could get
more attention with a dedicated CEO, they said.  In recent months, Murdoch embraced the idea that there were
investors for a standalone publishing company, such as Vanguard
Group Inc. and Alden Global Capital Ltd., which own stock in
McLean, Virginia-based  Gannett Co. (GCI) , the largest U.S. publisher,
and  McClatchy Co. (MNI) , based in  Sacramento ,  California .  New CEO  Murdoch, who will lead the entertainment unit as chief
executive officer and is searching for a CEO for the publishing
group, also told colleagues he’d be happy not to answer any more
questions from analysts or investors about why he was spending
money on newspapers, these people said.  It was apparent in meetings that Murdoch wanted to be able
to argue publicly the move wasn’t a concession to critics,
regulators or investors, said the people.  Dan Berger, a spokesman for News Corp., declined to comment
on the company’s internal discussions.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Murdoch said breaking up News Corp. had nothing to do with
the phone-hacking scandal at the company’s U.K. newspaper unit,
which has threatened the company’s holdings in satellite-TV
company  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  Ofcom, a U.K. media
regulator, is considering whether News Corp. should be allowed
to keep its 39 percent stake in BSkyB.  “This was purely a business decision that the company
would be better this way,” Murdoch said on Bloomberg
Television.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  