-- News Corp.’s Print Loss Is Bondholders’ Gain
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-06-29T17:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/news-corp-s-print-loss-is-bondholders-gain.html
News Corp. bondholders are poised to
benefit as  Rupert Murdoch  prepares to cleave a debt-free
publishing arm from his entertainment business even as they lose
a quarter of the company’s revenue.  News Corp.’s 6.15 percent bonds maturing in 2041 reached
the highest level since February after the New York-based parent
of the Fox film studio and the Wall Street Journal said it plans
to split into two publicly traded companies. The new publishing
company will have “good, positive  cash flow , and it will have
no debt,” Murdoch, 81, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview with  Betty Liu .  “The stuff that’s going to stay at News Corp. for the long
term is a much better credit than what’s going off into the
publishing arm,” Monica Erickson, a Los Angeles-based money
manager and credit analyst at DoubleLine Capital LP, which
oversees $37.5 billion and owns  News Corp. (NWSA)  debt, said in a
telephone interview. “Long-term, it’s a good move for the
credit.”  While removing the publishing assets without shifting any
of the $15 billion of  bonds  may raise the entertainment unit’s
ratio of total  debt  to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization to the highest level since 2009,
Moody’s Investors Service said the proposed breakup doesn’t
endanger News Corp.’s investment-grade rating.  ‘Reasonable Assumption’  Though executives haven’t made final decisions on  capital
structure , leaving the company’s obligations with the
entertainment unit is “a reasonable assumption,” Murdoch said
in the television interview.  News Corp.’s $1.5 billion of 6.15 percent notes rose to
119.45 cents on the dollar yesterday, the highest since Feb. 29,
before trading at 118.7 cents to yield 4.92 percent at 8:05
a.m., according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Its 6.2 percent bonds
due 2034 also rose to an almost four-month high to yield 5.08
percent yesterday.  The extra yield investors demand to own News Corp.’s debt
instead of  government securities  has tightened 16 basis points
since May 31 to 2.64 percentage points, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. That compares with a 7 basis-
point decline to 2.01 percentage points for industry peers, the
data show.  “Bondholders may be feeling a bit liberated,” Alex Diaz- Matos, an analyst at Covenant Review LLC in  New York , said in a
telephone interview. “They could be viewing the newspaper
business as more a drain on the enterprise, and bond prices
likely reflect that.”  Murdoch Optimistic  Shareholders have also gained. News Corp. added $4 billion
to its market value this week and traded at $22.05 at 1:03 p.m.,
up 15 percent from the end of May.  Murdoch, projected optimism for the publishing group in a
telephone interview yesterday, suggesting that news is a
valuable commodity and mobile devices such as Apple Inc.’s iPad
and Amazon.com Inc.’s Kindle Fire will create new revenue
sources. While the company will cut jobs at its Australian
newspapers, overall he’s looking to invest in the business to
make it grow.  “Our publishing business is more valuable than people give
us credit for,” Murdoch said. “There are great digital
opportunities in publishing, and net-net, around the world,
we’ll be increasing our numbers and increasing our costs and
hopefully increasing revenues as well.”  Murdoch said Dow Jones & Co., the publisher of the Wall
Street Journal, will be the “center of this whole thing.”  ‘Global Brand’  “We think the Wall Street Journal, which we may call the
WSJ, will be a really great global brand,” Murdoch said on CNBC
yesterday.  While News Corp.’s  publishing arm  accounted for 17.8
percent of the company’s operating income in its last fiscal
year, up 6 percentage points from 2010, the measure has dropped
from about 50 percent in 2001, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Publishing revenue at $8.83 billion, which includes sales from
the New York Post and the London-based Times, hasn’t exceeded a
growth rate of 5 percent since the fiscal year ended June 2008.  Sales from cable programming, which includes the Fox News
channel, Fox Sports and FX, have increased by more than 14
percent in each of the last five years to $8 billion in 2011,
the data show.  “You’re getting rid of a slow-growth, lower-margin
business that’s got secular issues,” Karen Klapper, an analyst
at CreditSights Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s still giving you cash, but that cash is shrinking, and if
they’re going to truly embrace the digital world it’s going to
require a lot of investment to get there.”  Declining Revenue  Newspaper publishers are struggling with declining revenue
as readers migrate to Internet news sources, which often are
provided for free and aggregated by companies such as Google
Inc., operator of the world’s largest Web search engine.  News Corp. is also the subject of government investigations
by U.K. and U.S. regulators, amid allegations that its
journalists hacked phones and bribed police, that may impair its
financial condition, the company said in an Aug. 15 regulatory
filing.  The publishing business represents 43 percent of News
Corp.’s $1.2 billion of  capital expenditures  in 2011, the
biggest portion since 2007 and most of any unit, Bloomberg data
show.  “The transaction will result in an improved operating
profile at RemainCo, given the divestiture of the company’s
lowest-margin, most capital intensive, and secularly challenged
business,”  Fitch Ratings  said in a report that affirmed News
Corp.’s BBB+ rating with a stable outlook. RemainCo refers to
the units not being divested.  Hacking Scandal  Even “the most adverse scenario” for bondholders, under
which all the company’s debt remains at News Corp. with the
spun-off publishing arm receiving $1 billion to $2 billion of
cash, won’t endanger the company’s Baa1 credit rating, Moody’s
analyst Neil Begley wrote yesterday in a report. Baa1 is three
levels above junk grade and equivalent to BBB+.  The transaction may increase News Corp.’s debt to Ebitda
ratio to 3 times including adjustments, Moody’s said. That
compares with 2.25 times in the most recent quarter and would be
the  highest level  since 2009, Bloomberg data show.  While the spinoff doesn’t ease the risks of liabilities
linked to the company’s phone-hacking scandal, leverage should
decline as earnings at the remaining entertainment businesses
expand, according to Michael Altberg, an analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s  who rates News Corp. BBB+ with a “negative” outlook.  ‘Bodes Well’  Revelations a year ago that journalists at News Corp.’s
News of the World tabloid accessed phone messages of murdered
schoolgirl  Milly Dowler  in 2002 led to a public outcry prompting
the closing of what was then Britain’s biggest-selling
newspaper.  The scandal also spurred more than 50 arrests and a finding
by Parliament’s House of Commons Culture Committee that Murdoch
is “not a fit person to exercise the stewardship of a major
international company.”  News Corp., which generated  more free cash  during the past
12 months than in any other year, will still benefit bondholders
after losing the publishing business by maintaining a “very
strong” ability to produce the funds used to reward
shareholders through dividends or stock buybacks, to reinvest in
the company, or to pay down debt, said  Dave Novosel  of Gimme
Credit LLC.  “In the long term, you’re going to have a better credit
profile in terms of the cash flows that would more than offset
the near-term bump in leverage,” Novosel, a senior analyst at
the bond research firm in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “You’re losing some of the Ebitda, but you’re going
to lose the cap-ex too, which obviously bodes well for the
remaining operation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  