-- Biggest Solar Farm Switching to Panels Only Before Purchase
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-29T22:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/nextera-files-to-switch-blythe-project-to-photovoltaic-panels.html
Solar Trust of America LLC asked
regulators for permission to follow through on previously
announced plans to use photovoltaic panels at its 1,000-megawatt
Blythe solar farm, not the originally planned solar-thermal
system, before the California project is sold to  NextEra Energy
Inc. (NEE)   The switch is described in a  petition  filed by Solar
Trust’s Palo Verde Solar I unit and posted today on the
 California Energy Commission ’s website. If approved,
construction may begin as soon as April on what would be the
world’s largest solar farm.  Prices for photovoltaic panels  fell  by half last year,
making them more economical than solar-thermal systems. Solar
Trust first announced plans to switch half the Blythe project to
panels in August, driving down the market value of its co-owner,
the German solar-thermal developer  Solar Millennium AG (S2M) , which
filed for insolvency in December.  “We would expect that moving forward this will be a PV
project,” Steven Stengel, a NextEra spokesman, said today by e-
mail.  NextEra received approval from a  bankruptcy court  to
purchase Blythe June 27. The price may be as much as $50 million
if all contingency payments are made. The sale hasn’t closed
yet.  Ownership Change  Palo Verde filed a petition with the state energy
commission June 25 to transfer ownership of Blythe to NextEra.  Edison International (EIX) ’s Southern California Edison had
agreed to purchase Blythe’s electricity, and switching to
photovoltaic panels would require the contract to be
renegotiated, Marc Ulrich, the utility’s vice president of
alternative and renewable power, said in April. That hasn’t
happened and the utility said yesterday it no longer has a
power-purchase agreement for the project.  Photovoltaic panels convert sunlight into electricity.
Solar-thermal systems focus sunlight to heat liquids and produce
steam that drives a turbine to generate power.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  