-- Nomura Cuts Executive Pay Amid Unit Suspensions on Leaks
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-06-29T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/nomura-ceo-said-to-brief-press-on-insider-probe-result-today-2-.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage, said it will cut top executives’ pay and
suspend some operations following an internal probe into leaked
information amid a government crackdown on insider trading.  Chief Executive Officer Kenichi Watanabe’s pay will be
lowered by 50 percent for six months, while Chief Operating
Officer Takumi Shibata’s compensation will be reduced for five
months, the Tokyo-based company said in a statement yesterday.
The institutional equity sales department will halt business for
five days from July 2, it said.  Watanabe, 59, has been under pressure to explain how
employees leaked information that third parties used for trading
ahead of share sales managed by Nomura in 2010. An internal
investigation found that some staff appeared to be “willing to
do anything to meet sales targets,” according to the report.  Regulators have yet to complete their inspection of Nomura
after finding that its staff gave tips on equity offerings by
 Inpex Corp. (1605) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  and  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501)  Watanabe told reporters that he wasn’t sure whether
there were any other breaches although he doesn’t plan to pursue
any more investigations by external parties.  The CEO, who delivered his first personal apology over the
company’s involvement at a  shareholders’ meeting  earlier this
week, said he has no plans to resign.  Executive Pay  Watanabe was awarded a basic salary of 108 million yen
($1.4 million) for the year ended March, excluding  stock options ,
Nomura said in a filing to the  Finance Ministry  this week.
Shibata’s annual basic pay totaled 96 million yen. Keiko Sugai,
a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, declined to comment on their
compensation for the current fiscal year.  Shares of Nomura rose 3.9 percent to 294 yen, the highest
since May 2, at the close of trading in Tokyo before the
announcement, while the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  gained 1.5
percent. The brokerage has lost 26 percent in the past year.  The government’s probe has extended to Nomura’s closest
domestic rival,  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , according to two
people with knowledge of the situation. A Daiwa employee leaked
insider information on Nippon Sheet Glass Co.’s 2010 public
share offering to a hedge fund, the people said, asking not to
be identified before a public announcement.  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission
yesterday recommended Japan Advisory Ltd., a hedge fund advisory
firm, pay a fine of 375,183 yen ($4,720) for trades related to
the Nippon Sheet offering. Daiwa will start an internal probe
into the Japan Advisory trades and strengthen its controls, the
brokerage said in a statement to the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange.  Profit Drive  A panel of lawyers hired by Nomura for its internal
investigation identified problems in the firm’s sales structure,
working conditions and compliance, according to the brokerage’s
report. Sales staff were given “excessive inclinations in the
drive for profits,” it said.  Minoru Hatada, who was in charge of the institutional
equity sales department at the time of the incidents, will step
down, as will Hiroshi Tanaka, who was head of compliance. Other
employees “shall be severely penalized,” Nomura said in its
proposed list of changes.  The brokerage plans to make it mandatory for institutional
equity sales staff to use mobile phones with recording
capability, and their taped conversations will be stored for two
years instead of two weeks. Guidelines on entertainment and
meeting expenses will also be issued, and Nomura will review
whether there is an “excessive concentration” among the
recipients, it said.  Olympus Investigator  Hideki Nakagome, a former High Court chief justice who
helped investigate Olympus Corp.’s accounting fraud, led the
internal probe.  Regulators have also investigated firms including local
brokerage units of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316)  and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to restore confidence in Japan’s capital
markets. The benchmark  Topix Index (TPX)  has dropped 10 percent since
March 21, when the SESC began announcing that underwriters were
leaking information before the stock offerings.  The SESC, a watchdog under Japan’s Financial Services
Agency, last month found that a JPMorgan employee gave
information on the 2010 offering by Nippon Sheet, two people
with knowledge of the matter said on May 29. JPMorgan said on
the same day that it’s “cooperating fully” with authorities.  A former executive at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a unit of
 Sumitomo Mitsui , was arrested this week, becoming the first
banker from a major firm to be detained in connection to a
suspected case of  insider trading  since an ex-Nomura employee
was in 2008.  “It’s very regrettable,” Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita told reporters earlier yesterday, when asked
about the history of violations at Nomura. “I want the company
to make serious efforts to fix this by itself.”  The FSA separately ordered SMBC Nikko in April to improve
its business after 23 sales staff disclosed information to 34
clients before an unidentified company’s announcement of an
equity offering. Sumitomo Mitsui President Koichi Miyata this
week apologized to shareholders and pledged to strengthen the
banking group’s compliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  