-- Obama Visits Site of Colorado’s Most Destructive Wildfire
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d ,   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-06-30T02:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/obama-visits-site-of-colorado-s-most-destructive-wildfire.html
President  Barack Obama  toured scenes
of devastation in Colorado Springs a day after thousands of
evacuees began learning whose homes survived the most
destructive wildfire in state history.  The president’s motorcade rolled through mountainside areas
of Colorado’s second-largest city where the Waldo Canyon blaze
left nothing except bricks, burned cars and charred trees. “The
devastation is enormous,” said Obama, who declared the state a
federal disaster area.  A second person was found dead in a home where two had been
reported missing, Police Chief Pete Carey said. While at least
346 residences were destroyed, firefighters saved four out of
five homes in the affected areas, Fire Chief Rich Brown said.  “Our heart aches for people who lost their lives or lost
their properties, but 81 percent of these properties were
saved,” Brown said. Damage estimates are incomplete. The cost
to fight the fire nearly doubled in two days to $6.2 million,
said Rich Harvey, incident commander for the multi-agency  task
force  fighting the blaze.  Drought and winds have fueled fires across the western U.S.
Federal personnel are supplementing local and state forces
battling fires in Colorado,  Alaska ,  Arizona , California,
 Montana ,  Nevada ,  New Mexico ,  Utah  and  Wyoming , according to the
 U.S. Forest Service .  In the mountainous Pike National Forest overlooking
southwestern Colorado Springs, six firefighters from Montana
marched in a line through pine woods that smelled of sap and
burned needles.  Sifting Embers  With Pikes Peak -- the inspiration for “America the
Beautiful” -- towering 14,000 feet (4,270 meters) in the
background, the firefighters called to one another “straight,”
and “watch your footing” and “lift up your face.” They
periodically stopped and bent down to pick up a handful of the
fine blackened earth, choking as they sifted through it for
embers.  Bright red retardant dropped from aircraft had stopped the
flames from jumping a road near mansions in Cedar Heights
overlooking red rock formations in Garden of the Gods Park.  “That pink stuff on the rocks and bushes is retardant and
it’s used to help keep the fire from traveling,” said Greg
Heule, a Forest Service spokesman. “You can see it worked.”  State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., which is the
biggest U.S. home and car insurer, has received 75 claims
resulting from the fire and expects that to rise, said Angela
Thorpe, a spokeswoman for the Bloomington, Illinois-based
company. A  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN)  unit called Farmers, which
trails only State Farm in the Colorado market, has received 665
fire-related claims, according to Jerry Davies, a spokesman for
the Los Angeles-based insurer.  Disaster Declaration  Obama’s disaster declaration releases funds to state and
local governments, according to a statement from the White
House. Before landing, Air Force One took the president for an
aerial view northwest of the city as plumes rose from several
fires.  Unlike election rival  Mitt Romney , Obama can invoke the
powers of the office to show concern in a swing state with nine
electoral votes. Obama won the state in 2008.  “Just showing up is probably 75 percent of it,” said
Linda P. Schacht, who worked in President  Jimmy Carter ’s White
House press office and now teaches political communications at
Lipscomb University in Nashville,  Tennessee . “The presence of
the president reinforces the idea that there’s a government
that’s there in time of need.”  More than 1,000 federal, state and local firefighters,
approximately 70 fire engines and six helicopters are devoted to
the Colorado Springs fire, the Forest Service said.  25% Contained  That fire has consumed almost 29 square miles (75 square
kilometers), about the size of  Manhattan . Officials hope to
control the blaze, which was 25 percent contained yesterday, by
July 16, according to the Incident Information System, a multi-
agency coordinating group.  The wildfire forced more than 34,000 evacuees to seek
shelter. Some have been allowed to return home.  Carey, the police chief, said more than a dozen evacuees
who rescued possessions from their homes had them stolen from
their cars in hotel parking lots.  Two people were arrested after police said they broke into
a home behind the fire lines. People returning to undamaged
houses reported home and car burglaries or thefts, said Carey,
who said he hopes to direct more police to the evacuated areas
soon.  ‘Life Changing’  Colorado  Springs Firefighter Rick McNew, 42, called the
wildfire “a life-changing event.”  Cows were bawling in the distance as he laid hoses and
urged residents to leave the Mountain Shadows neighborhood June
23, he said.  When he returned four days later, the area was burned to
the ground. A police detective who’d brought firefighters 15
hamburgers as a thank-you lost his home.  Near where he heard the cows, McNew attacked flames that
flared up in a dead tree, shooting embers down the street
dangerously near several homes that survived.  “We put out 40 to 50 hot spots in there last night,” he
said yesterday.  “For us, this is a long, trying time,” McNew said.
“We’ll never forget it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in  Colorado Springs  at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Oldham in Colorado Springs at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  