-- Oil Surges Most in More Than a Year on European Agreement
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-29T19:21:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/oil-rises-from-nine-month-low-on-european-relief-package.html
Oil rose the most in more than three
years on optimism that Europe’s debt crisis may be contained
after leaders agreed to ease repayment rules for emergency loans
to Spanish banks and relax conditions on help for Italy.  Futures gained 9.4 percent, trimming the biggest quarterly
decline since the final three months of 2008, as leaders of the
17 euro countries dropped requirements that taxpayers get
preferred creditor status on aid to Spain’s banks. Prices also
advanced because a European Union ban on the purchase,
transport, financing and insurance of Iran’s oil starts in July.  “We’re seeing a massive return of risk appetite,” said
 Mike Wittner , head of oil market research at Societe Generale SA
in New York. “The market was impressed by what the Europeans
accomplished and there’s a feeling that the worst may be over.”  Oil for August delivery gained $7.27 to settle at $84.96 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the biggest
increase since March 12, 2009, when the market surged 11 percent
on speculation OPEC would cut output targets. Prices are down 14
percent this year and have dropped 18 percent this quarter.  Brent oil for August settlement rose $6.44, or 7 percent,
to $97.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Prices decreased 20 percent from March 30, also the
biggest decline since the final quarter of 2008.  Oil has moved for more than two years on the latest
developments in the euro region’s debt crisis and its projected
impact on the continent’s energy demand. The crisis that began
in Greece has spread to Ireland,  Portugal , Italy and Spain.  “Expectations that the meeting would end in failure had
been baked into the market, so the European agreement has been
met with relief,” said  Addison Armstrong , director of market
research at Tradition Energy in  Stamford , Connecticut.  Business Activity  Markets also gained as business activity in the U.S.
unexpectedly expanded in June. The Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. said today its business activity
 barometer  increased to 52.9 from 52.7 in May.  The euro advanced as much as 2 percent against the dollar
and is headed for the biggest gain against the U.S. currency
since October. An increasing euro bolsters the appeal of
commodities to investors.  “The euro move is going to give oil a lot of support,”
said  Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy Security
Analysis Inc. in Wakefield  Massachusetts .  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  climbed 2.2 percent and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  increased 1.9 percent.  “The market has been all over the place recently,” said
 Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania . “The volatility has increased because the markets
have been comingled. We seem to be racing on a hamster wheel.”  Technical Analysis  Prices may rebound to as high as $90 a barrel if they hold
above a support level near $75, according to  technical analysis 
from Iitrader.com. Oil may rise 20 percent from the one-year
intraday low of $74.95 touched in October, said Rich Ilczyszyn,
chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com in Chicago.  The gain may accelerate next week after the EU embargo on
Iranian crude starts on July 1, a Bloomberg survey showed.
Sixteen of 42 analysts, or 38 percent of those surveyed,
forecast oil will rise through July 6. Fourteen predicted a
decline and 12 said there will be little change.  “The European surprise and the U.S. business activity
numbers are good signs for the economy and boosting all the
markets,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts. “Oil has
additional reasons to be higher. Some traders are probably
nervous being short going into the weekend because of the
official beginning of the Iranian embargo.”  The EU sanctions are being imposed because western nations
say Iran is hiding a nuclear-weapons program. The Islamic
republic says its atomic work is peaceful.  Saber Rattling  Iran has complete visibility and can hit any target in the
 Strait of Hormuz  and Persian Gulf, and will soon install
missiles on ships with a firing range of more than 300
kilometers (186 miles), state-run Mehr news agency reported,
citing a commander of Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps.  “The saber rattling set off by Iran today is only likely
to intensify with the imposition of the embargo over the
weekend,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics
LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.  OPEC  oil production fell from the highest level in more
than three years in June led by Iran, a Bloomberg survey of  oil
companies , producers and analysts showed. Output in Iran, the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-biggest
producer after  Saudi Arabia , declined 65,000 barrels to 3.16
million barrels a day, the least since June 1992.  Norwegian Strike  Norway’s first industrywide energy strike since 2004 is in
its sixth day. The country’s oil and gas unions will maintain
their strike at the existing level, Leif Sande, president of
Industry Energy, the biggest of the unions, said from Stavanger
after a meeting of the three unions involved.  The meeting was aimed at deciding whether to expand the
 strike action  that is currently halting about 250,000 barrels of
oil a day, as well as some gas output.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 706,712
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 569,745
contracts yesterday, 1.6 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.43 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  