-- Holder Won’t Face Prosecution for Withholding Gun Documents
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-29T20:36:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/holder-won-t-face-prosecution-for-withholding-gun-documents-2-.html
Attorney General Eric Holder won’t
be prosecuted for failing to provide the U.S. House with
documents lawmakers requested about a federal gun operation, the
 Justice Department  said.  The department’s decision, described in a letter to U.S.
House Speaker  John Boehner , came after the House voted yesterday
to cite Holder for contempt. At issue is material related to the
Fast and Furious gun operation, which allowed illegally
purchased firearms from the U.S. to wind up at crime scenes in
Mexico.  Holder’s response to lawmakers’ subpoena doesn’t constitute
a crime, said Deputy Attorney General  James Cole  in a letter
yesterday to Boehner, an Ohio Republican. President  Barack Obama 
has asserted executive privilege over the documents and declined
to turn them over.  The Justice Department’s longstanding position is that it
won’t prosecute executive branch officials for withholding
documents after a president asserts privilege.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications because their release would harm the operations
of the White House.  House Vote  The House voted to make Holder the first sitting Cabinet
member held in contempt by either chamber of Congress.  Lawmakers also authorized a civil lawsuit to force Holder
to turn over the documents.  The contempt citation was forwarded to the U.S. attorney in
Washington, part of the Justice Department, for prosecution.  A spokeswoman for Representative  Darrell Issa , a California
Republican, who led the effort to cite Holder, criticized the
department’s decision.  “It is regrettable that the political leadership of the
Justice Department is trying to intervene in an effort to
prevent the U.S. Attorney for the  District of Columbia  from
making an independent decision about whether to prosecute this
case,” said Becca Glover Watkins, an Issa spokeswoman, in a
statement.  Issa is seeking documents describing internal Justice
Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers
that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information.  The Justice Department says it has provided more than 7,600
pages of documents in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in  Washington  at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  