-- Hollande Wrests Merkel Concessions in Euro Crisis Plan
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-06-29T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/hollande-wrests-merkel-concessions-in-euro-crisis-plan.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
led a revolt against Germany’s austerity-first doctrine for
combating the financial crisis, winning easier aid terms for
 Spain  and  Italy  in an effort to reshape the balance of power in
the euro region.  At the 19th European summit since the crisis broke out,
Hollande pushed through the concessions by threatening to delay
endorsement of a deficit-reduction treaty that German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  touted as one of her signature achievements.  “The best way to make others move is to move ahead
oneself,” Hollande told reporters as the summit concluded in
Brussels today.  Euro-area leaders left open the timing and conditions of
any support for the Spanish and Italian bond markets, raising
the risk that bickering over the fine print will -- as after
prior summits -- nullify the initial boost to confidence.  Euro region bailout funds will be used “in a flexible and
efficient manner,” a statement said after the nocturnal
bargaining that ended today at 4:30 a.m. For now, the markets
like what they see, pushing down Spanish and Italian yields and
sending the euro to its biggest rally all year.  By provoking the open breach with Merkel, the new French
leader fractured the Berlin-Paris coordination that marked the
 crisis management  after  Greece  became the first victim in late
2009. It consigned to the past the “Merkozy” epithet that
stood for Merkel’s collaboration with the previous French
president,  Nicolas Sarkozy .  Plans Awry  Merkel’s plans for the summit to focus on growth-boosting
steps and a decade-long roadmap for strengthening the currency
union went awry when Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  demanded immediate relief
for their stressed bond markets instead.  The German leader was cornered when Hollande, in office for
six weeks, expressed reservations about the deficit-control
treaty, only hours before Merkel was due to jet back to Berlin
and oversee its ratification in the German parliament.  The outcome was to lower the bar for the bloc’s bailout
funds to intervene on the bond markets. Countries that comply
with existing economic-policy recommendations will be eligible,
and additional conditions won’t be set, the leaders agreed.  Still, Merkel said working with the new French leader was
“fun.”  With international pressure mounting for  Europe  to tackle
the crisis, the leaders remained coy about how the more flexible
powers will be used, when, and by whom. Europe will “pull out
the right card at the given time,” Luxembourg Prime Minister
 Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters.  German Control  As Europe’s dominant economy, Germany can control the use
of the aid funds: the temporary European Financial Stability
Facility, set up in 2010, and the European Stability Mechanism,
a permanent fund to be phased in starting next month.  While 500 billion euros in fresh money is available, the
euro zone has already pledged as much as 100 billion euros ($126
billion) to recapitalize Spain’s banks and another 10 billion
euros for Cyprus. Those programs would bring to five the number
of countries tapping European assistance.  Spain won two concessions. Creditor countries dropped a
demand that bailout loans for Spain would be first in line to be
paid back in the event of a Spanish default. The insistence on
“preferred creditor status” would have put regular Spanish
bondholders at a disadvantage.  Spain’s Gains  Euro leaders also agreed to let the permanent bailout fund
pour money into Spanish banks directly, instead of channeling it
via the Spanish government. Direct recapitalizations will be
possible once Europe sets up a single banking supervisor,
possibly as early as 2013.  Merkel pushed back against the notion that aid will be
easier to come by.  Germany ’s parliament, for example, will have
two opportunities to veto any request for direct capital
injections to banks by the rescue fund, she said.  “There is pressure on the financial markets, that cannot
be denied,” Merkel told reporters. “Some countries are in a
very complicated situation. There was an interest here to find
solutions. My task was to see to it that the solutions respect
the procedures and rules that we have.”  Watching from the sidelines is the  European Central Bank ,
which bought 219.5 billion euros of ailing countries’ bonds
until suspending the purchases in February under pressure from
German representatives on its policy council.  Draghi’s Pleased  ECB President  Mario Draghi  welcomed the immediate anti-
crisis steps and the leaders’ commitment to map out by the end
of the year a timetable toward a more resilient economic union,
including centralized bank oversight, better controls on
national budgets and possible moves to joint borrowing -- an
innovation opposed by Germany.  “I am actually quite pleased with the outcome,” Draghi
said. “It showed the long-term commitment to the euro by all
member states of the euro area. Also it reached tangible results
in the shorter term.”  Draghi was silent on possible ECB anti-crisis steps. The
next meeting of its policy-setting council is on July 5.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Brussels at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  