-- Honda Leverages Fuel-Cell Savvy to Extend Fit EV’s Range
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-06-29T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/honda-leverages-fuel-cell-savvy-to-extend-fit-ev-s-range.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267) , the first automaker
to lease fuel-cell cars to retail customers, said advances in
hydrogen-vehicle technology helped it create a battery-powered
Fit that has the highest efficiency of any car in the U.S.  The company will start leasing the Fit EV hatchback on July
20, for $389 a month, in California and  Oregon . The car’s 82
miles (132 kilometers) per charge and 118 mile-per-gallon
equivalent ratings top Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s Focus EV, aided by components adapted from the hydrogen-
propelled  FCX Clarity , said Sachito Fujimoto, who’s overseeing
both projects.  “Motors, motor controllers, braking, the AC system, these
components we tried to make as usable as possible for both,”
said Fujimoto, a senior chief engineer for Honda, in a June 26
interview in Pasadena,  California . “Clarity team members are
also involved in our EV development.”  Honda has tried to spark demand for fuel-cell cars, which
make electricity for propulsion from hydrogen on board rather
than storing it in batteries, since the company began leasing
the Clarity sedan in Los Angeles in 2008. That effort has been
stymied by the limited number of stations dispensing the fuel.  California emissions rules pushed Honda and other major
carmakers to offer battery-electric models starting this year,
making the Fit EV program a near-term priority.  “From an R&D standpoint, there’s a lot of common
components between battery-electrics and fuel cells,” said John German, a project manager with the International Council on
Clean Transportation, an environmental public-policy group in
 Washington , and a former Honda engineer. “Honda’s got a huge
amount of fuel-cell experience that’s applicable.”  Better Brakes  Advances in the braking system for the Fit EV that
recaptures 8 percent more energy from deceleration and stopping
also will be applied to the Clarity, Fujimoto said.  Tokyo-based Honda plans to deliver 1,100 of the cars to
U.S. customers in model years 2013 and 2014, Robert Langford,
the company’s U.S. manager for plug-in electric sales, told
reporters in Pasadena this week. Fit EV availability will be
expanded to  New York ,  Massachusetts  and other U.S. states in
2013, Honda said.  Honda executives, including former President Takeo Fukui,
have been skeptical of the mass-market appeal of battery-powered
cars because of their limited range and lengthy recharging time
compared with gasoline-engine autos.  Market Potential  The Fit EV is intended to help Honda understand the market
potential for such cars, said Robert Bienenfeld, senior manager
at the company’s U.S. headquarters in Torrance, California.  “We’re trying to come up with a formula for success for
EVs,” Bienenfeld said in an interview in  Pasadena . “For an
older driver, some of the limitations of battery electrics make
them unappealing, but for younger customers that may not be the
case.”  With the addition of the Fit EV, Honda’s U.S. lineup
includes vehicles powered by batteries, hydrogen, natural gas,
gasoline and hybrid-electric powertrains.  The goal for the Fit EV was to get as much driving range as
possible using the smallest possible battery pack, Fujimoto
said. The model uses a 20-kilowatt-hour lithium battery pack
supplied by Toshiba Corp. that’s smaller than the 24-kWh and 23-
kWh packs used in the Leaf and Focus EV, Honda said.  The smaller battery size allows the Fit EV to recharge in
three hours from a 240-volt outlet, half the time of Nissan’s
Leaf, Honda said.  EPA Ratings  The Environmental Protection Agency this month said the Fit
EV’s 118 mpg-e rating is the highest given to any vehicle so
far. EPA’s range rating for the Fit EV of 82 miles in combined
city and highway driving also compares with 73 miles for Leaf,
Focus EV’s 76 miles and 62 miles for the “i” from  Mitsubishi
Motors Corp. (7211)   Honda, which has leased only 25 Clarity sedans to
California customers since 2008, needs to be ready to mass-
produce zero-emission hydrogen and battery cars within a few
years as energy and environmental circumstances change, Fujimoto
said.  “The market doesn’t dictate the future; engineers do,” he
said. “We developers have to far outdo and get ahead of the
market or there will be no future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  