-- Lone Latin America Rate Rises Fade as Colombia Hints at Cuts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-29T13:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/lone-latin-america-rate-increases-fade-as-colombia-hints-at-cuts.html
Traders are betting  Colombia  will
fall into line with other  emerging markets  and begin cutting
 interest rates  as soon as July after keeping borrowing costs
unchanged at 5.25 percent for a fourth straight meeting today.  The yield on three-month  interest-rate swaps  fell 21 basis
points, or 0.21 percentage point, since March 23 to 5.04 percent
at 8:11 a.m. in Bogota. It slid to 4.96 percent on June 26, its
lowest level on a closing basis since Jan. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The drop indicates traders expect an
interest rate cut within the next three months. Policy makers
will keep the benchmark unchanged today, according to all 33
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Colombia has raised  interest rates  nine times since the
start of 2011 to cool growth fueled by credit expansion and
record investment in its oil and mining industries, even as
other emerging markets cut borrowing costs in response to
 Europe ’s worsening debt crisis. With the country’s economy now
slowing, and prices for its oil and coal exports falling,
traders are wagering that Banco de la Republica will reverse
course this year.  “The chances of a rate cut are rising,” said  Camilo Perez , the head analyst at Banco de Bogota, the nation’s second-
biggest bank. “Colombia’s economy is weaker and the
international environment has been deteriorating.”  Global Outlook, Peso  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters in
Bogota this week that Colombia will cut rates this year “if
needed,” and that this will depend on the international
scenario. The last time the central bank lowered borrowing costs
was in April 2010.  Colombia’s economy grew 4.7 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, its slowest pace since 2010, as the world’s
biggest currency rally this year hurt farmers and manufacturers,
while spending on public works slumped.  The peso has strengthened 8.5 percent to 1,784.60 per
dollar this year, the biggest gain of 170 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. President  Juan Manuel Santos  told coffee growers in
Medellin this week that he wants the central bank to take “more
aggressive” action to weaken the peso.  Santos said he would like to see the peso closer to 2,000
per dollar, and said policy makers should step up dollar
purchases. Santos met with central bank board members June 26.  The central bank has said it will buy a minimum of $20
million daily in the  spot market  until at least Nov. 2.  Oil, Rate Forecasts  As lower  oil prices  push declines in the peso, the central
bank likely won’t announce additional dollar purchases, said
Perez and Alejandro Reyes, head analyst at Ultrabursatiles SA
brokerage.  “If oil continues to fall, we will see a natural decline
in the peso,” said Reyes. “There isn’t much room for more
dollar purchases and even then, it would be hard to believe more
intervention would drive the peso to 2,000.”  After government reports last week showed industrial output
and retail sales unexpectedly fell in April, more economists are
forecasting interest rate cuts this year after previously
predicting higher borrowing costs.  A Citigroup Inc. survey of economists published June 27
shows the average estimate for the year-end rate fell to 5.17
percent from 5.43 percent in last month’s survey.  Domestic Demand  Retail sales slumped 2.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, a worse result than all 16 forecasts in a Bloomberg
survey of economists, whose median estimate was for a 4.1
percent increase.  Industrial output also fell unexpectedly, while urban
unemployment rose and building permits fell 29.7 percent from a
year earlier.  Last month, the central bank cited slowing consumer demand,
the worsening  European debt crisis  and cheaper oil in its
decision to hold rates. Annual inflation slowed to 3.44 percent
in May, the second-lowest rate after Chile of 13 Latin American
economies tracked by Bloomberg, from 3.73 percent at the start
of the year.  The central bank targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or
minus one percentage point.  Oil exports rose 70 percent to $28 billion dollars last
year, while exports of coal rose 40 percent to $8.4 billion. Oil
accounted for 49 percent of the country’s sales abroad last
year. The price of crude has slumped 17 percent this year.  The yield on Colombia’s benchmark 10 percent peso-
denominated bond due in July 2024 fell three basis points to
6.98 percent, according to the stock exchange.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  