-- Top Court Won’t Revive CBS Fine Over Super Bowl Exposure
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-29T16:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/top-court-won-t-revive-cbs-fine-over-super-bowl-exposure.html
The U.S. Supreme Court refused to
revive a $550,000 fine against  CBS Corp. (CBS)  for showing  Janet Jackson ’s breast for a split second during the 2004 Super Bowl
halftime show.  The high court rejected the Federal Communications
Commission’s appeal of a lower-court ruling that said the agency
imposed the fine arbitrarily.  “We are gratified to finally put this episode behind us,”
 Dana McClintock , a CBS spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.
“It’s been more than eight years since we expressed deep regret
for the Super Bowl halftime show.”  Chief Justice  John Roberts  agreed with the decision to deny
the FCC’s appeal. “Any future ‘wardrobe malfunctions’ will not
be protected” from FCC sanctions on grounds that the agency’s
policy isn’t clear, the basis for recent FCC court defeats,
Roberts said in a statement.  “The networks are on notice,” Dan Isett, director of
public policy for the Parents Television Council, a Los Angeles-
based membership group that works against profanity in media,
said in an interview. “Essentially he’s saying, this better not
happen again.”  Entertainers’ Outbursts  Isett said the FCC should now review about 1.6 million
indecency complaints that have accumulated during years of
litigation over Jackson’s exposure and coarse outbursts by the
singer Cher, the actress  Nicole Richie , and singer Bono.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  Today’s action follows a June 21 Supreme Court ruling that
invalidated sanctions imposed by the FCC against  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
Fox Television Stations Inc. and stations affiliated with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC for fleeting nudity and expletives. The
justices said the FCC hadn’t given fair notice to Fox and ABC
about what was prohibited under its rules.  In the case acted on today, the 3rd U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals in Philadelphia  ruled  in November that the FCC hadn’t
properly announced its policy on fleeting displays of nudity
before fining CBS.  The FCC fined New York-based CBS after viewers got a
glimpse of Jackson’s breast for 9/16 of a second during the
halftime show. Her singing partner  Justin Timberlake , who tore
off part of Jackson’s bustier, later called the incident a
“wardrobe malfunction.”  Roberts, in his statement, said the FCC’s policy on
indecent images may have been more clear than the policy on bad
language.  Words, Images  “As every schoolchild knows, a picture is worth a thousand
words, and CBS broadcast this particular image to millions of
impressionable children,” Roberts wrote.  Still, Roberts wrote, under today’s FCC policies, there’s
no important distinction between standards for words and images.  “It is now clear that the brevity of an indecent broadcast
-- be it word or image -- cannot immunize it from FCC censure,”
Roberts wrote.  After Jackson’s exposure CBS immediately placed delays on
live programs “so that we could safeguard against similar
incidents of unintended and spontaneous snippets,” McClintock,
the spokesman, said in his statement.  “Since then, all we ever sought was an affirmation of the
long-established policy of balanced, consistent and deliberate
indecency enforcement the FCC had followed for decades before
the incident,” McClintock said.  Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  also released a statement that
said, as the court noted in its June 21 decision, the FCC now
has “an opportunity to reconsider its indecency policy in light
of technological advances” and the FCC’s “uncertain”
standards over the years.  The case is Federal Communications Commission v. CBS Corp.,
11-1240.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  