-- Fewer U.S. States Economies Gain in BEES Index in Slowdown
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-29T15:37:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/most-states-economies-stalling-in-bees-index-amid-u-s-slowdown.html
Fewer U.S. state economies improved
during the first three months of the year and a measure of gains
in their health rose at half the rate at the end of last year.  The Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States index shows
that 31 states gained during the quarter compared with the
previous three months, led by  North Dakota ,  Michigan ,  Kentucky 
and  Tennessee . That was down from 35 during the last three
months of 2011 as more states showed signs that their economies
were stalling, including Arizona,  Nevada  and  New Jersey .  The states’ performance shows ebbing economic growth early
this year amid government spending cuts and weaker business
investment. That pushed the median gain in the index, which
marks the midpoint of states’ performance, to 2 percent from 4
percent in the fourth quarter of 2011.  “At the state level, you can clearly see the economy
decelerating,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist with
Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Whatever momentum the  U.S. economy 
had at the end of last year is dissipated.”  The index, known as BEES, indicates a retreat from the last
three months of 2011, when states had their broadest advance in
more than a year, and shows the challenge President  Barack Obama 
faces in an election defined by the economy.  Battleground States  The results were mixed for key presidential battleground
states. Arizona,  New Mexico , Nevada and  Virginia  were among
those that showed declining health, while  Pennsylvania ,  North
Carolina ,  Ohio  and others gained.  The BEES Index is based on the performance of local-company
shares, tax collections,  home prices , mortgage delinquencies,
job growth and personal income, giving equal weight to each
component. It is intended to indicate the direction of each
economy, rather than absolute health, so a state that’s quickly
rebounding will receive a higher rank than one with a steady but
slower pace of growth.  The states involved in manufacturing and energy were among
the top gainers. Both industries have helped stoke the economy
in the aftermath of the 18-month recession that ended three
years ago, the longest contraction since the Great Depression.  “Those two industries have been a big part of the recovery
for the U.S.,” Robert Dye, chief economist for  Comerica Bank (CMA)  in
 Dallas .  Oil Production  Buoyed by oil and natural gas production, North Dakota was
the top performer. The state had rising incomes, job gains and
increased tax collections. Montana, Texas and Colorado, all
among states with the biggest job gains, were also in the top
one-third of U.S. states  “There is an increasing bifurcation of the American
economy between areas of the country involved in the extraction
of minerals, energy and agricultural development, with those
that are highly dependent on construction and the service sector
lagging behind,” said Brusuelas, the Bloomberg economist.  Illinois , which raised taxes, was also among the top 10
performers in the Bloomberg index.  Two of the states hardest hit by the real-estate rout,
 Arizona  and Nevada, showed signs of declining economic health.  Nevada was among the worst performers, hurt by declining
real estate prices, tax collections and the biggest decline in
employment in the nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  