-- Houghton Mifflin Chapter 11 Sent to Boston: Bankruptcy
-- B y   B i l l   R o c h e l l e
-- 2012-06-29T13:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/houghton-mifflin-chapter-11-sent-to-boston-bankruptcy.html
What remains of the Houghton Mifflin
Harcourt Publishing Co. reorganization was sent yesterday to the
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Boston.  The bankruptcy judge in  New York , where the prepackaged
Chapter 11 petition was filed on May 21, ruled on June 22, the
day after he signed a confirmation order, that the case was
improperly filed in New York. The judge said he would send the
case away officially when the reorganization plan was
implemented.  There will be no further proceedings in New York. As a
result, the bankruptcy judge in Boston, where the company is
based, will rule on professionals’ fee requests.  The New York judge decided he was required to send the case
away because none of the Houghton companies was incorporated in
New York and none had principal assets or a principal place of
business in Manhattan.  For details on the change of venue, click here for the June
25 Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For details on the plan and the
company’s financial condition, click here for the May 22
Bloomberg bankruptcy report. For more on the plan and
confirmation, click here for the June 22 Bloomberg bankruptcy
report.  Revenue in 2011 was about $1.3 billion. The petition listed
assets of $2.68 billion and debt totaling $3.54 billion.  The case is In re Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co.,
12-12171, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  New Filings  Stockton, California, Files in Chapter 9 in Sacramento  Stockton,  California , filed a petition for Chapter 9
municipal bankruptcy yesterday in  Sacramento , California. It is
the largest U.S. city ever to seek  bankruptcy protection .  The city, with a population of about 300,000, listed the
California Public Employees Retirement System as the largest
creditor with a claim of $147.5 million. In second place is
Wells Fargo Bank NA as trustee for $124.3 million in pension
obligation bonds.  The list of largest creditors includes $119.2 million owing
on four other series of bonds.  Before bankruptcy, the city council adopted a budget
calling for defaulting on $10.2 million in debt payments and
cutting $11.2 million in employee pay and benefits under union
contracts.  To qualify for Chapter 9, the city said in a court filing
that it’s insolvent and intends to implement a plan to “adjust
its debts.” The city also stated that it conducted negotiations
mandated by state law with holders of more than half of the debt
in each class it intends to affect in bankruptcy.  The city is being represented in bankruptcy court by
Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, a San Francisco-based law
firm with five offices in California, including Sacramento.  The petition stated that assets are worth more than
$1 billion while debt exceeds $500 million.  For Bloomberg coverage of the filing, click here.  The case is In re City of Stockton, California, 12-32118,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of California
(Sacramento).  Five Shamrock Hotels File in Chicago Owing GECC  Five hotels affiliated with Shamrock Holdings Inc. from Los
Angeles filed for Chapter 11 protection on June 26 in  Chicago .
The properties all have mortgages with General Electric Capital
Corp. that matured on May 31.  The largest property is the DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel
Tampa Airport in Tampa,  Florida , with 489 rooms. The mortgage
had an original principal amount of $37 million.  The other properties are the Wyndham Boston Andover hotel
in Andover, Massachusetts, with an original mortgage of $17.5
million; the Embassy Suites Palm Desert in Palm Desert,
California, with an original mortgage of $16.9 million; the
Crowne Plaza San Antonio Airport hotel in San Antonio, with an
original mortgage of $13 million; and the DoubleTree by Hilton
Hotel Princeton in Princeton, New Jersey, with an original
mortgage of $15.8 million.  The properties were purchased in 2006 or 2007.  Until his death in late 2009, Shamrock was controlled by
Roy Disney, nephew of  Walt Disney .  The first-filed case is Shamrock-Hostmark Princeton Hotel
LLC, 12-25860, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Gypstack Owner in Florida Files Chapter 11 in Tampa  HRK Holdings LLC, the owner of a 675-acre tract adjacent to
Port Manatee, Florida, filed for Chapter 11 protection yesterday
in Tampa, Florida, saying assets and debt both exceed $10
million.  The property contains what’s technically known as a
phosphogypsum stack holding byproducts from the manufacture of
phosphate fertilizer. The site was owned by Piney Point
Phosphates Inc. until its bankruptcy in 2001.  The site was converted for use in storing material dredged
from a Port Manatee construction project, according to a report
in the Bradenton Herald.  The case is In re HRK Holdings LLC, 12-09868, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Middle District of Florida (Tampa).  Luxembourg Life-Settlement Investor Files Chapter 15  The Luxembourg liquidators for SLS Capital SA filed a
petition in New York under  Chapter 15  this week seeking the U.S.
court’s assistance in investigating the “disappearance of SLS’s
assets, including assets held in custodial accounts” in the
U.S.  SLS purchased life insurance policies in the so-called
life-settlement market, where insured individuals sell their
policies for less than the death benefit. The buyer pays the
premiums until the insured’s death.  SLS financed its business by selling bonds to non-U.S.
investors, according to a court filing. Purchased policies had
face values totaling as much as $500 million by 2008, according
to a filing.  SLS was controlled by David Elias, an English businessman
who is “purportedly deceased,” according to a court paper.  The liquidators say they haven’t been able to locate all of
the policies or their proceeds. They intend to enlist assistance
from the U.S. court in locating assets.  Chapter 15 isn’t a full-fledged reorganization like Chapter
11. It allows the U.S. court to assist a bankruptcy primarily
pending in another country.  The case is In re SLS Capital SA, 12-12707, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Updates  Appeals Court Stops Vitro Bondholders from Seizing Assets  Creditors of Vitro SAB can’t begin this week to attach
assets of the Mexican glassmaker and its subsidiaries. Whether
bondholders will be free to seize assets after next week is
undecided.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New Orleans temporarily
extended a stay pending appeal that the bankruptcy judge in
 Dallas  imposed earlier this month when he refused to enforce
Vitro’s Mexican reorganization plan in the U.S. The bankruptcy
judge left it up to an appellate court to decide whether the
prohibition against seizing asset would extend beyond today.  The Fifth Circuit in New Orleans granted a direct appeal
from the ruling by the bankruptcy judge and told the bondholders
yesterday to submit papers on July 2 opposing an extension of
the stay halting asset seizures. The appeals court said the
temporary stay it imposed yesterday will remain in effect
“pending further order of this court.”  The bankruptcy judge refused to enforce the Vitro
reorganization in the U.S., finding it was “manifestly
contrary” to U.S. law and public policy. He said the Mexican
plan improperly allowed Vitro subsidiaries to reduce their
guarantees on $1.2 billion in defaulted bonds even though they
weren’t in bankruptcy themselves.  Vitro argues that no other Mexican reorganization plan has
ever been denied enforcement in the U.S. The company called the
bankruptcy court’s opinion “unprecedented and erroneous.” The
bondholders have been fighting the Mexican plan because it gives
them only a 40 percent recovery while Vitro’s owners retain
stock worth $500 million.  For a summary of the bankruptcy court’s June 13 opinion,
click here for the June 14 Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Defeated in courts in Mexico, the bondholders notched their
victory in the Vitro parent’s Chapter 15 case in Dallas. Chapter
15 isn’t a full-blown reorganization like Chapter 11. It permits
a foreign company in bankruptcy abroad to enlist assistance from
the U.S. court to enforce rulings from the home country.  The appeal in the Circuit Court is  Vitro SAB de CV (VITROA)  v. Ad
Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders (In re Vitro SAB de CV),
12-10689, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The suit in bankruptcy court where the judge decided
not to enforce the Mexican reorganization in the U.S. is Vitro
SAB de CV v. ACP Master Ltd. (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 12-03027,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The
bondholders’ previous appeal in the circuit court is Ad Hoc
Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB de CV (In re Vitro SAB
de CV), 11-11239,  Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit (New
Orleans). The bondholders’ appeal of Chapter 15 recognition in
district court is Ad Hoc Group of Vitro Noteholders v. Vitro SAB
de CV (In re Vitro SAB de CV), 11-02888, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The Chapter 11 case for
U.S. subsidiaries is In re Vitro Asset Corp., 11-32600, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The
Chapter 15 case for the parent is Vitro SAB de CV, 11-33335, in
the same court.  AMR Seeking Approval to Purchase 14 Aircraft in 2013  AMR Corp., the parent of  American Airlines  Inc., filed
papers yesterday seeking bankruptcy court approval for
simplified procedures allowing the purchase of 14 previously
ordered Boeing 777 aircraft during 2013.  If AMR doesn’t exercise purchase options on time, the right
to buy the aircraft lapses.  AMR already received approval for procedures to purchase 32
aircraft from  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 2012. The hearing for approval of
the 2013 aircraft purchases will be held on July 19.  Yesterday, the bankruptcy judge in New York gave approval
for new contracts with five worker groups represented by the
Transport Workers Union. The groups that came to terms include
baggage handlers, ground workers, dispatchers and instructors.
There is still no agreement with mechanics represented by the
TWU. For Bloomberg coverage, click here.  This week, leaders of the pilots’ union agreed to send the
company’s revised offer to the membership for a vote. As a
result, the bankruptcy judge agreed not to issue a ruling until
Aug. 8 on whether the airline can modify union contracts with
pilots, flight attendants and mechanics.  AMR, based at the airport midway between Dallas and Fort
Worth, Texas, listed assets of $24.7 billion and debt totaling
$29.6 billion in the Chapter 11 reorganization begun in
November. American Airlines entered bankruptcy with 600 aircraft
in the mainline fleet and another 300 with American Eagle, the
feeder airline.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Latest Solyndra Auction Brings in $1.79 Million  Solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC held another auction last
week that generated $1.79 million from the sale of 7,200 lots of
equipment at the plant that no one would purchase to operate as
a going concern.  Previous Solyndra auctions were disappointing, compared
with the amount of investment. Two auctions late last year
brought in a total of $8 million. A three-day auction in
February generated another $3.8 million. The auctions were
arranged when there was no buyer to restart operations.  The auction last week was planned in January to follow
sometime after the February auction. Buyers could participate in
last week’s auction through the Internet.  Solyndra halted manufacturing in August and filed under
Chapter 11 in September.  The Fremont, California-based company filed definitive
lists showing property with a claimed value of $854.1 million
against $867.1 million in debt.  Liabilities include $783.8 million in secured claims and
$74.1 million of unsecured debt. In addition to a $535 million
government-guaranteed loan, financing came from $709 million in
eight issues of preferred stock, plus $179 million in
convertible notes.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of  Delaware  (Wilmington).  Restaurant Operator Buffets Confirms Second Plan  Buffets Inc., an operator of family restaurants, won
approval of a Chapter 11 reorganization plan for a second time.  The bankruptcy judge in Delaware signed a confirmation
order on June 27. All voting classes were in favor of the plan.  Before the vote, the plan was amended to gain support from
the unsecured creditors’ committee by giving the panel’s
constituency a recovery of 6 percent to 9 percent on $44.6
million in claims. Previously, unsecured creditors were to
receive nothing.  The plan was also modified to create a trust for unsecured
creditors that will pursue lawsuits and be funded with at least
$4 million.  Otherwise, the plan was negotiated before the new Chapter
11 filing in January. First-lien lenders are receiving the new
stock in return for $251.8 million owing on the existing first-
lien facility and $34.8 million in outstanding letters of
credit.  Buffets emerged from a prior Chapter 11 reorganization in
April 2009. It filed again with 494 locations and plans to close
81. For details on Buffets’ reorganization plan in 2009, click
here for the April 29, 2009, Bloomberg bankruptcy report.  Buffets, based in Eagan, Minnesota, operates under names
including Old Country Buffet, HomeTown Buffet, Ryan’s and Fire
Mountain.  The new case is Buffets Restaurants Holdings Inc.,
12-10237, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  The prior bankruptcy reorganization was In re Buffets
Holdings Inc., 08-10141, in the same court.  RoomStore Liquidators Guarantee 59% of Inventory Cost  RoomStore Inc., a 63-store furniture  retailer  when it
sought Chapter 11 protection in December, was given authority by
the bankruptcy judge yesterday to hire liquidators to run going-
out-of-business sales at the remaining 29 stores.  The liquidators will pay expenses of the sales while
guaranteeing RoomStore a recovery of 59 percent of the cost of
merchandises. In addition, the liquidators will pay $275,000 in
cash.  The GOB sales will be conducted by a joint venture between
Hilco Merchant Resources LLC and three other liquidators.  RoomStore previously said that the final liquidation should
generate enough cash to pay secured and unsecured creditors in
full. The company filed a reorganization plan to preserve the
company’s corporate existence and stockholders’ interests along
with the ability to utilize tax losses and thus offset gains
from the sale of assets.  Immediately after bankruptcy, RoomStore hired liquidators
and conducted going-out-of-business sales at 18 locations.
Later, 10 stores in Texas were liquidated. The company itself
closed seven others.  Assets were shown for about $56 million, with debt totaling
$52.5 million, according to RoomStore’s petition in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Richmond, Virginia. The company was in
Chapter 11 before.  RoomStore came into Chapter 11 owning 65 percent of
Mattress Discounters Group LLC, which it purchased out of
bankruptcy in late 2008. Mattress Discounters, a bedding
retailer, has 79 stores in five states. It isn’t in bankruptcy.
RoomStore is looking for a buyer.  The case is In re RoomStore Inc., 11-37790, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Richmond).  Philadelphia Orchestra to Exit Chapter 11 in July  The  Philadelphia Orchestra  said it expects to emerge from
reorganization by the end of July following the signature of the
bankruptcy judge yesterday on a confirmation order approving the
Chapter 11 plan.  The ensemble said it was “gratifying” how the ultimately
consensual plan was achieved “without litigation or work
stoppage.” Not a single creditor voted against the plan, which
was the end result of a bankruptcy begun in April 2011.  The plan incorporates settlements with the musicians’
union, the musicians’ pension plan, the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corp. and the  Kimmel Center , where the orchestra performs.  The orchestra’s board made gifts to cover the
$5.49 million cost of the plan that extinguishes $100 million in
debt. The orchestra incurred $8.9 million in professional fees
and other costs while in Chapter 11.  Although there was no long-term debt, the orchestra said it
was facing a $14.5 million structural deficit.  The orchestra had almost no secured debt. For the
$35.5 million claim resulting from termination of the existing
musicians’ pension plan, the pension fund receives a
$1.75 million cash payment under a settlement agreement. The
PBGC receives $1.3 million in installments.  General unsecured creditors are being paid 50 percent in
cash on claims totaling about $555,000. For other Bloomberg
coverage, click here.  The orchestra’s Chapter 11 petition stated that assets and
debt were both less than $50 million.  The case is In re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of
 Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  Northstar Aerospace Auction Formally Set for July 17  Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., a manufacturer of gears and
gearboxes for military helicopters, will appear in bankruptcy
court on July 24 for authority to sell the business for $70
million in cash to private-equity investor Wynnchurch Capital
Ltd., unless a higher offer shows up at an auction July 17.  The bankruptcy judge in Delaware approved auction and sale
procedures on June 27. Any competing bids are due July 13 under
a schedule the company was recommending.  Northstar filed for Chapter 11 reorganization on June 14,
with the sale to Wynnchurch already negotiated. The principal
lender is  Fifth Third Bank (FITB) , owed $39.5 million on a revolving
credit and $18.9 million on a  term loan .  With U.S. operations based in Bedford Park, Illinois,
Northstar makes components and assemblies for Chinook, Apache
and Blackhawk helicopters as well as the F-22 Raptor fighter.
The company has six facilities in the U.S. and  Canada . Revenue
in 2011 was $189.6 million. The two largest customers are the
U.S. military and Boeing Co.  Northstar’s books show assets of $165.1 million, with
liabilities totaling $147.5 million. Trade suppliers are owed
$21.7 million. Canadian affiliates filed for reorganization in
Canada under the Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act.  The case is In re Northstar Aerospace (USA) Inc., 12-11817,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Prince Sports Creditors Voting on Chapter 11 Plan  Creditors of Prince Sports Inc. have begun voting on the
reorganization plan proposed by the designer and distributor of
 racquet sports  equipment. The confirmation hearing for approval
of the plan is scheduled to take place July 27 in U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington, Delaware.  The plan calls for an affiliate of Authentic Brands Group
LLC to take ownership in exchange for $67.2 million in secured
debt it purchased.  The plan proposes to give cash and lawsuit recoveries to
unsecured creditors, for an expected recovery of 29 percent on
$13.8 million in claims.  Prince, based in Bordentown, New Jersey, said assets are on
the books for $54.2 million. In addition to the $65 million
secured claim owing to Authentic affiliate ABG-Prince LLC, $10.2
million is owing to trade suppliers, according to a court
filing.  Prince was acquired in 2007 by Nautic Partners LLC.
Authentic is providing a $2.5 million credit to finance the
Chapter 11 effort.  The case is In re Prince Sports Inc., 12-11439, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Pinnacle Airlines’ May Operating Income $3.8 Million  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) , a feeder airline, reported a
$249,000 net loss in May on operating revenue of $83 million.  May generated $3.8 million in operating income, according
to the operating report filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Manhattan. The net loss was the result of $3.8 million in
reorganization costs.  Cash increased by $14 million in May, to end the month at
$56.8 million, according to the operating report.  Pinnacle, based in Memphis, Tennessee, began reorganizing
in Chapter 11 on April 1 in Manhattan, listing assets of $1.54
billion against debt totaling $1.43 billion. At the time,
Pinnacle was providing service as Delta Connection, United
Express, and US Airways Express.  In addition to $74.3 million in financing for the
bankruptcy provided by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , secured debt
includes $690 million owing to Export Development Canada and $34
million on a revised loan with an affiliate of  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   For the nine months ended Sept. 30, there was an $8.8
million net loss on $938.1 million in operating revenue.
Operating income in the period was $23.1 million. Net income was
$12.8 million in 2010 on operating revenue of $1.02 billion.  The case is In re Pinnacle Airlines Corp., 12-11343, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Fuller Brush Reports Net Loss, Has Longer Exclusivity  Fuller Brush Co. reported a net loss of $37,000 in May on
revenue of $3.1 million, according to an operating report filed
with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The net loss resulted from $110,000 in interest expense and
reorganization costs of $162,000.  Fuller prevailed on the bankruptcy judge to grant a so-
called exclusivity motion and extend the exclusive right to
propose a reorganization plan until Sept. 19.  Fuller Brush previously said Victory Park Capital Advisors
LLC intends to buy the business in exchange for debt. The
reorganization is being financed with a $5 million loan from an
affiliate of Victory Park, the secured lender owed $22.7
million.  Fuller filed under Chapter 11 to stop the landlord from
terminating the lease for the principal facility in Great Bend,
Kansas. Part of the reorganization includes eliminating about
half the current catalog of 2,000 personal-care, commercial and
household  cleaning products .  Founded in 1906, Fuller Brush listed assets of $22.9
million and debt totaling $50.9 million. The company was
acquired in 2007 by Buckingham CPAC Inc., according to a court
paper.  The case is In re Fuller Brush Co., 12-10714, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Health Clinic WJO Taken Over by Chapter 11 Trustee  WJO Inc. , the operator of six medical clinics in
Pennsylvania, is being taken over by a Chapter 11 trustee at the
behest of Tristate Capital Bank, the secured lender owed
$4 million.  The U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Philadelphia called for a
trustee on June 27 after the bank said the collateral was worth
less than the debt.  The company filed two reorganization plans, and the
creditors’ committee submitted one. The bank said none of the
plans moved forward, nor was any disclosure statement approved.  Based in Bristol, Pennsylvania, the clinics are owned by
William J. O’Brien III. They use hyperbaric chambers to treat
patients with pure oxygen for maladies such as diabetic wounds
and crush injuries.  Assets and debt both exceed $10 million, according to the
petition.  The case is In re WJO Inc., 10-19894, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Watch List  Colorado’s Abound Solar to File Chapter 11 in Delaware  Abound Solar Inc., a manufacturer of solar panels from
Loveland,  Colorado , said it will file for bankruptcy next week
in Delaware.  The company borrowed about $70 million from a $400 million
loan guarantee provided by the U.S. Department of Energy. Abound
made the last draw on the loan in August, around the time
Solyndra LLC halted manufacturing in advance of its Chapter 11
filing in September.  Abound halted production in February from one plant in
Colorado. A second was planned in  Indiana .  A spokesman for the Energy Department said the government
expects a loss of $40 million to $60 million on the loan
guarantee. For the Bloomberg story, click here.  Coal Miner Xinergy Demoted to Caa3 on Negative Cash Flow  Coal  miner Xinergy Corp. was dealt another downgrade
yesterday because Moody’s Investors Service expects “negative
free  cash flow  of as much as $40 million for the full year
2012.”  The new corporate grade is Caa3, two levels below the
downgrade issued in April by  Standard & Poor’s .  Xinergy’s financial difficulties result from what Moody’s
characterizes as the “collapse” in coal prices stemming from
the unusually warm winter and the low cost of natural gas.  Purchasers today were offering to buy the $195 million in
9.25 percent secured bonds due in 2019 for 65.25 cents on the
dollar, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The five mining complexes for the Knoxville, Tennessee-
based company are in West Virginia, Kentucky and Virginia.  Statistics  Claims Trading in May Second-Lowest in the Past Year  The $1.95 billion in claims traded during May were the
second-fewest in the last year, exceeding only the $1.5 billion
of claims that changed hands in April.  As usual, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. headed the pack,
with $1.55 billion in face amount of traded claims. Lehman
claims represented 80 percent of the month’s total, according to
data compiled from court records by SecondMarket Inc.  MF Global Inc. was again in second place, with $246.1
million of traded claims, or 16 percent of Lehman’s. In number
of traded claims, MF Global’s 253 reported trades approached the
265 for Lehman.  April was the slowest month for claims trading since
February 2010. Trading dropped once Lehman began making
distributions to creditors under the confirmed Chapter 11 plan.  Bankruptcy Video & Podcast  Kodak-Intel, Madoff, AMR, Pinnacle: Bankruptcy Audio & Video  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Ricoh Co. (7752) ,  Nikon Corp. (7731) ,  Motorola Solutions
Inc. (MSI)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  are among the high-technology companies
mounting opposition to the attempt by  Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  to sell
digital-imaging technology at an auction tentatively scheduled
for August, as Bloomberg Law’s Lee Pacchia and Bloomberg News
bankruptcy columnist Bill Rochelle discuss on their newest video
and podcast. The video also discusses the victory scored in the
U.S.  Supreme Court  by the trustee liquidating Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities Inc.  On the podcast, Pacchia and Rochelle discuss the
implications of the May operating profit reported by American
Airlines Inc. Pinnacle Airlines Corp. and families of victims of
the February 2009 crash are jousting over punitive damages. The
podcast closes by explaining why the Cordillera Golf Club in
Colorado is a candidate for club members to seek a transfer of
the case to Denver from Delaware.  To see the video, click here. To listen to the podcast,
click here.  Advance Sheets  Buying a Claim and Changing a Plan Vote Not Permitted  A secured creditor was properly barred from buying the
claim of the one unsecured creditor to block the use of
cramdown, the U.S. Bankruptcy Appellate Panel for the Ninth
Circuit in  San Francisco  ruled yesterday.  The case involved the bankruptcy of an office building the
owner contended was worth more than the debt owing to the
secured creditor with a $16 million claim. The plan provided for
paying the mortgage at a reduced  interest rate  on a 30-year
amortization schedule. The modified mortgage would mature in 10
years.  Naturally, the secured creditor voted against the plan.  One unsecured creditor voted in favor of the plan. After
the voting deadline, the lender bought the claim and filed a
motion for permission to change the vote on the unsecured claim
from “yes” to “no.” The bankruptcy judge declined to allow a
changed vote and confirmed the Chapter 11 plan. The lender
appealed and lost.  Had the lender been allowed to change the vote on the
unsecured claim, there would have been no accepting class and no
ability to confirm the plan based on cramdown.  In a 33-page opinion, the Appellate Panel said that
Bankruptcy Rule 2018(a) allows a vote to change only on a
showing of “cause.” The appellate panel reviewed the
bankruptcy court’s decision to determine if there was an abuse
of discretion in finding no “cause.”  The bankruptcy judge said that “cause” requires something
more than a “change of heart.” While it was a “close
question,” the appellate panel concluded that the bankruptcy
judge didn’t abuse her discretion in denying the motion to
change the vote.  The bank also attacked the plan, saying it wasn’t filed in
good faith because it artificially impaired unsecured creditors
by paying no interest and stretching out payment over a few
months. The bank contended the property owner easily could have
paid the claim in full when the plan was confirmed.  The appellate panel again upheld the bankruptcy judge
because it didn’t have a “definite and firm conviction that the
bankruptcy judge erred” in deciding that the plan was filed in
good faith.  The case is Beal Bank USA v. Windmill Durango Office LLC
(In re Windmill Durango Office LLC), 11-1728, U.S. Bankruptcy
Appellate Panel for the Ninth Circuit (San Francisco).  Alter Ego Claims Require Report, Recommended Findings  Although an alter ego claim was derived from a fraudulent
transfer claim and isn’t a dispute where the bankruptcy court
can make final rulings under the Supreme Court’s Stern v.
Marshall ruling, the case nonetheless should remain in
bankruptcy court, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Shira A. Scheindlin in Manhattan ruled
on June 26 in a 21-page opinion that the bankruptcy court could
retain the lawsuit, while being limited to issuing recommended
findings of fact and conclusions of law.  The case involved a lawsuit where the bankruptcy trustee
sued defendants contending that a lease had been fraudulently
transferred. The suit also alleged that a defendant was an alter
ego for the bankrupt company.  The defendants filed a motion to withdraw the reference,
asking Scheindlin to take the lawsuit out of bankruptcy court.
Scheindlin refused.  She said that statements in Stern were dicta to the extent
they said that fraudulent transfer claims involve private rights
where bankruptcy courts can’t make final rulings. Regardless,
she followed other courts in New York in ruling that fraudulent
transfer suits fall within the ambit of Stern.  Scheindlin could find no cases saying whether an alter ego
claim concerns a public right or a private right. She decided
that the bankruptcy court lacks the ability to make final
rulings because the alter ego claim was “entirely derivative”
of the fraudulent transfer claim.  She left the lawsuit in bankruptcy court for the judge to
make a report and recommendation.  The case is Messer v. Bentley Manhattan Inc. (In re Madison
Bentley Associates LLC), 11-9027, U.S. District Court, Southern
District New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Rochelle in New York at 
 wrochelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 