-- House Makes Holder First Cabinet Member Cited in Contempt
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/house-makes-holder-first-cabinet-member-cited-in-contempt.html
The U.S. House cited Attorney
General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for refusing to
provide documents about a federal gun operation and authorized
its lawyers to wage a court battle to get them.  Republicans said Holder didn’t comply with a subpoena for
material from the Fast and Furious operation, which allowed
illegally purchased firearms from the U.S. to wind up at crime
scenes in Mexico. President  Barack Obama  has asserted executive
privilege over the documents and declined to turn them over.  The 255-67  vote  yesterday, which made Holder the first
Cabinet member ever held in contempt by either chamber of
Congress, follows steady Republican criticism of the nation’s
top law enforcement officer. More than 100 Republican lawmakers
have called for Holder’s resignation over his handling of Fast
and Furious, terrorism and other matters. Many Democrats didn’t
vote and walked off the House floor in protest.  The contempt citation, which doesn’t need Senate approval,
now goes to the U.S. attorney in Washington to determine whether
criminal prosecution is warranted. The Washington prosecutor,
Ronald Machen, is an Obama nominee who probably won’t pursue the
matter after Obama claimed executive privilege over the
documents last week, said Josh Chafetz, a professor at Cornell
Law School in Ithaca, New York.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications because their release would harm the operations
of the White House.  ‘Political Theater’  In a statement after the vote, White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said  House Republicans  “pushed for political theater
rather than legitimate congressional oversight.” Separately,
Holder called the House’s contempt citation “the regrettable
culmination of what became a misguided and politically motivated
investigation during an election year.”  Two Republicans, Steve LaTourette of Ohio and Scott Rigell
of Virginia, joined 65 Democrats in opposing the contempt
citation while 17 Democrats supported it. Before the roll call
most of the 108 Democrats who didn’t vote, including Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, walked out of the chamber to
protest the resolution.  Lawmakers then voted 258-95 to authorize a civil lawsuit to
force Holder to turn over the documents. Both LaTourette and
Rigell supported the civil enforcement resolution.  The Democratic-controlled House took a similar step in 2008
after the  Justice Department  declined to pursue contempt
proceedings against advisers to President  George W. Bush .  ‘Can’t Win’  The  Bush administration  had asserted executive privilege
when the House Judiciary Committee subpoenaed then chief of
staff Josh Bolten and former White House counsel Harriet Miers
for information regarding the firing of nine U.S. attorneys.  The standoff was ultimately resolved a year later after the
Obama administration negotiated a deal. The case could have
lasted far longer had the Bush administration pursued additional
appeals, Chafetz said.  “The lesson for the House is they can’t win in court,”
Chafetz said.  LaTourette, an  Ohio Republican , said the criminal contempt
citation will only “embolden people to do the same” once there
is a Republican attorney general.  “These things have a funny way of coming back around at
you,” he said.  California Republican  Darrell Issa , chairman of the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has led the
congressional Fast and Furious probe and pressed Republican
leaders to act against Holder.  Documents Sought  The House is seeking documents describing internal Justice
Department discussions about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers
that Holder later said mistakenly contained incorrect
information. The letter said the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives, which conducted the Fast and Furious
operation, hadn’t “knowingly allowed” the tactics in the law
enforcement operation to be employed.  The Justice Department says it has provided more than 7,600
pages of documents in the case.  Documents responsive to the House panel’s subpoena relate
to “sensitive law- enforcement activities, including ongoing
criminal investigations and prosecutions,” Deputy Attorney
General  James Cole  said in a June 20 letter to Issa.  The Justice Department documents would “show who brought
about the dishonest statement to Congress and who covered it up
for 10 months,” Issa said. That will help the panel “backtrack
to the individuals who ultimately believed in Fast and Furious
and facilitated Fast and Furious,” he said.  ‘Most Reckless’  Representative  Elijah Cummings  of Maryland, the top
Democrat on the oversight panel, called the probe “one of the
most reckless and politically motivated congressional
investigations in decades.”  Cummings argued that the investigation is aimed not at
getting to the truth about Fast and Furious because Issa has
refused to allow questioning of the head of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which ran the
operation.  “No member has been able to pose a single question to the
head of ATF,” Cummings said.  Guns in Fast and Furious ended up “lost” and will turn up
at crime scenes on both sides of the U.S.-Mexico border for
years, Holder told lawmakers last year.  Two of about 2,000 guns that ATF allowed to be carried away
were found at the scene of the December 2010 murder of U.S.
Border Patrol agent Brian Terry in  Arizona , according to a
congressional report.  Tactics Banned  Holder has said he didn’t learn of the tactics in the
operation until after it was the subject of news reports. Since
then, he has banned the use of similar law enforcement methods
and asked the department’s inspector general to investigate the
operation.  “What the Republicans are doing with the motion today is
contemptible,” Pelosi said before the vote. “This is something
that makes a witch hunt look like a day at the beach” because
it’s “based on a false premise” there was a cover-up by the
Justice Department.  Pelosi accused Republicans of trying “to tie the hands”
of Holder to “undermine” his effectiveness because of
political and policy differences.  No Cabinet member has ever been held in contempt by either
chamber of Congress, said Senate Historian Donald Ritchie. The
only head of an  executive agency  held in contempt was Anne Gorsuch Burford, who served as administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency under President  Ronald Reagan ,
Ritchie said. The House cited her for contempt in 1982.  Janet Reno  Holder became the first attorney general held in contempt
by a congressional committee since Janet Reno in 1998. House
Republican leaders opted against a floor vote on contempt for
Reno, who served under President  Bill Clinton , another Democrat.  The bloc of 17 Democrats who voted in favor of the contempt
citation included lawmakers who were in tight re-election
contests, including John Barrow of  Georgia , Kathy Hochul of New
York, Jim Matheson of  Utah , Leonard Boswell of  Iowa , and Mike McIntyre of North Carolina. Indiana Representative Joe Donnelly
is running for Senate. A total of 21 Democrats voted for civil
enforcement of the subpoena.  The  National Rifle Association  told House members in a June
20 letter it would consider the contempt vote in evaluations of
candidates for office. The group said the Obama administration
tried to use Fast and Furious “to advance its gun-control
agenda.”  Representative Tim Walz, a Minnesota Democrat, said the NRA
wasn’t a factor in his decision to vote for contempt.  “The balance of power requires Congress to provide
oversight and without proper information I can’t do it,” Walz
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  