-- House Votes to Boost Subsidies for Flights to Rural Areas
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-06-29T18:47:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/house-votes-to-boost-subsidies-for-flights-to-rural-areas.html
The House passed a transportation
and housing spending bill that would boost funding by 11 percent
for a government program that subsidizes air travel to rural
areas, an initiative long criticized by budget watchdogs as rife
with waste.  Lawmakers voted 261-163 to pass the fiscal 2013
appropriations measure,  H.R. 5972 . The bill would provide $214
million for the Essential Air Service, which pays carriers to
continue flights to more than 100 small communities, such as
Dodge City,  Kansas , and Huron,  South Dakota .  Critics say the flights often are little-used and can cost
taxpayers hundreds of dollars per passenger. The program
“lavishly subsidizes some of the least essential air services
in the country,” said Representative Tom McClintock, a
California Republican.  On June 26 McClintock offered an amendment to cut $114
million from the program. His proposal divided his Republican
colleagues, with some saying their constituents depend on the
service, and the House  rejected  it, 164-238.  “It is the only way some of these airports stay open,”
said Representative Tim Huelskamp, a freshman Republican whose
district covers 69 counties in central and western Kansas.
“It’s a rural issue.” Without the program, he said, his
constituents would have to drive hundreds of miles to the
nearest airport.  Overall, the spending bill would provide $51.6 billion in
discretionary spending for the  Department of Transportation , the
 Department of Housing and Urban Development  and other programs.
That would be a $3.9 billion reduction from the current fiscal
year’s level and $1.9 billion below the president’s spending
request.  Amtrak Increase  Among the bill’s winners are  Amtrak , which would get a
spending boost of 27 percent, to $1.8 billion. Funding for
Community Development Block Grants, a favorite of Democrats,
would increase by $396 million to $3.3 billion.  Lawmakers pared other transportation and housing
initiatives. They rejected President  Barack Obama ’s request for
an additional $1 billion for high-speed rail; ignored his
proposal to spend $500 million on so-called TIGER transportation
grants, which were created in the 2009 stimulus package to
promote road, rail and port infrastructure projects; and denied
his request for $150 million for the Choice Neighborhoods
program, which is intended to promote development in blighted
neighborhoods.  The administration has threatened to veto the measure,
primarily because of a dispute over spending ceilings in the
dozen annual appropriations bills needed to fund the government
for the fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. The White House has
argued that Congress should adhere to the caps set in the debt
ceiling agreement of last August.  House Republicans  have set
lower spending limits.  Airline Deregulation  The Essential Air Service grew out of the government’s
deregulation of the airlines in the late 1970s. Congress,
fearing carriers would abandon routes to small communities
because they were unprofitable, began paying airlines to
continue service.  The initiative was supposed to be temporary, to help ease
the transition to a deregulated  airline industry . Since the
1980s lawmakers have resisted efforts to cut the program. The
latest unsuccessful bid came from McClintock, whose  amendment 
was defeated earlier this week by a bipartisan coalition of 161
Democrats and 77 Republicans.  “It’s not surprising,” said Erich Zimmermann, a policy
analyst at Taxpayers for Common Sense, a Washington-based
watchdog group. “We expect that members will continue to
protect this program because it’s a way to send money back
home.”  Subsidies Vary  In 2010, the subsidies amounted to as little as $6 per
passenger for service to Cody,  Wyoming , and as much as $2,371 to
Owensboro,  Kentucky .  Representative Tom Latham, an Iowa Republican and a member
of the  Appropriations Committee , said the proposed cuts would
have been “devastating” for areas in his state that rely on
the program to help spur economic development. Representative
Paul Gosar, a freshman Republican from  Arizona , also backed the
program.  “Have you had a medical emergency?” said Gosar. “Have
you been to rural Arizona? Do it one time and you’ll find out
how the Essential Air Service is important.”  Representative Cynthia Lummis, a Wyoming Republican, said
she would be willing to cut the program, though only gradually
because she said local communities need to adjust to any
changes.  “It’s simply something that takes time,” she said.  FAA Shutdown  Funding for the program was one element in the dispute last
year between House and Senate lawmakers that led to a two-week
partial shutdown of the  Federal Aviation Administration .  House Republicans in a bill extending the FAA’s authority
to operate sought to eliminate subsidies at 13 rural airports,
including those in the states of Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, and Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West
Virginia Democrat who is chairman of the  Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee . The Senate wouldn’t pass the
extension.  About 4,000 FAA employees were out of work during the
period, airport construction projects were halted and the agency
lost at least $468 million in airline ticket taxes it could not
collect.  A compromise to authorize FAA spending signed into law Feb.
14 included funding for Essential Air Service. The law says
there should not be subsidies for flights averaging fewer than
10 passengers or at airports under 175 miles from a major hub.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  