-- Toyota Seeks BMW Sports-Car Expertise in Technology Links
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-06-29T13:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/toyota-seeks-bmw-sports-car-expertise-in-technology-links.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  said it will seek
to gain from  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s expertise in  sports
cars  as a partnership on new powering systems expands to include
auto components and high-performance vehicles.  The carmakers will collaborate on developing fuel cells,
lightweight materials and electric powertrains under a
memorandum of understanding signed today, they said at a press
conference at BMW’s Munich headquarters.  “BMW knows how to make a car perform,” Toyota President
 Akio Toyoda  said at the briefing with Norbert Reithofer, the
German company’s chief executive officer. Toyota’s strength in
hybrid-powered models and fuel cells will help BMW, and “I am
the one who is most looking forward to a sports car that is
environmentally friendly,” Toyoda said.  BMW, the world’s biggest luxury carmaker, is already
spending 530 million euros ($667 million) to develop the I sub-
brand of electric cars to keep its worldwide sales lead over
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi division and Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz.
The BMW i3 electric compact and i8 hybrid supercar will go on
sale in 2013 and 2014, respectively.  It’s too early to say whether the cooperation between BMW
and its Toyota City, Japan-based partner will develop into any
joint ventures, and any possibilities will be evaluated in
coming months, Reithofer said.  Agreement Terms  Toyota is the world’s biggest maker of hybrid vehicles,
which can operate on both electricity and gasoline or diesel
fuel. It signed an agreement on Dec. 1 to work with BMW on
boosting performance of  lithium-ion batteries , which are used in
hybrid or all-electric vehicles. The companies said they would
explore other projects to develop technology for reducing fuel
consumption and emissions.  BMW ended talks on fuel-cell cooperation with Detroit-based
 General Motors Co. (GM) , the German company said on June 27. Fuel
cells make electricity in a chemical process that combines
hydrogen and oxygen, with  water vapor  as the only exhaust.  Toyota’s hybrid Prius became the world’s third-best-selling
car in the first quarter as 247,230 were delivered, propelling
the Japanese manufacturer back into the global auto sales lead
ahead of GM. Since the Prius went on the market in Japan in
1997, Toyota has sold 4 million hybrid-electric vehicles
worldwide, including 1.5 million in the U.S., the company said
May 22.  The Japanese manufacturer introduced a gasoline-powered
sports car, the 86, in Japan in April. The model is sold as the
Scion FR-S in the U.S.  Joint Research  Research partnerships have become standard in the  auto
industry  as manufacturers look to reduce development expenses to
meet stricter emissions regulations.  “For the BMW group, strategic partnerships are an
essential part of our strategy,” Reithofer said. “It is one
way of securing long-term access to customers and
technologies.”  BMW works with  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  on engines for the Mini
brand and on components for hybrid vehicles. Those projects are
under review after GM took a stake in the Paris-based
manufacturer as part of a broader alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Webb in Munich via 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  