-- Toyota Expands Floor-Mat Recall to Lexus SUVs in U.S.
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-29T19:55:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/toyota-expands-floor-mat-recall-to-lexus-suvs-in-u-s-.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which has worked
to regain a reputation for vehicle quality after record recalls,
is adding a luxury sport-utility vehicle to a 2009 floor-mat
repair campaign under U.S. pressure.  Toyota is recalling 154,000 units of its 2010 Lexus RX SUVs
to fix and replace mats that can slip out of position and
interfere with accelerator pedals, the company said today in a
statement.  The U.S. National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
 said  on its website that it asked the Toyota City, Japan-based
company to add the models. The agency knows of 97 vehicles in
which floor-mat interference with the accelerator pedal was
reported, spokeswoman Lynda Tran said.  “NHTSA approached Toyota regarding this issue late last
month after the agency observed an increase in consumer
complaints and other reports regarding pedal entrapment in these
vehicles,” the agency said in a statement.  The regulator will decide “in the coming days” whether to
open an investigation into the timeliness of this recall, Tran
said in an interview.  Toyota,  Asia ’s largest automaker, has increased quality
checks and customer-complaint services after recalling more than
10 million cars and trucks worldwide following reports of
unintended acceleration.  Record Fines  The company paid record fines to NHTSA of $48.8 million in
2010 for failing to recall models affected by the flaws in a
timely manner. It still faces customer  lawsuits  related to the
defects.  “Toyota would have liked to have gotten this all behind it
and has not, so that’s a concern,” said Alan Baum, principal of
auto-industry forecaster Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,
 Michigan . “But frankly I think the attention span of the
American consumer is reasonably short, and I think they’ll look
at this and think ‘oh, one of those,’ and then move on.”  Toyota’s American despositary receipts rose 2.8 percent to
$80.19 at 3:34 p.m. in  New York .  The RX wasn’t part of the 2009 recall as it didn’t appear
to have a floor-mat flaw, said  Brian Lyons , a Toyota spokesman.
“In our view, the available data at the time did not include
adding that model to the recall,” he said by phone.  The recall is unlikely to affect sales, said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst based in  Santa Monica ,  California , for
auto-researcher Edmunds.com.  “People are attuned to it because it is Toyota but clearly
not to the same level as before,” she said.  Toyota’s U.S. sales unit is based in Torrance, California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  