-- Pentagon Asks Congress to Shift Billions in Funding
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-30T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/pentagon-asks-congress-to-shift-billions-in-funding.html
The Pentagon asked Congress to shift
$8.2 billion in previously approved fiscal 2012 funds to
bankroll “higher priority” items, including added fuel costs
to resupply U.S. forces in  Afghanistan .  The shift is detailed in an 82-page “reprogramming
request” sent to congressional defense committees yesterday. It
would provide at least $772 million to pay for increased fuel
costs for transporting supplies by northern routes into
Afghanistan after  Pakistan  closed its ground lines to U.S.
convoys.  Pakistan cut off use of its routes in November after NATO
and U.S. forces accidentally fired on Pakistani troops, killing
24 soldiers. The closing has forced the U.S. to use more
expensive northern routes, which Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
has said added about $100 million a month to the cost of
resupplying troops.  “Without this funding the Army runs the risk of an
interruption in the flow of supplies, subsistence and mail to
deployed warfighters,” according to the document sent to
Congress.  The Pentagon also asked approval to provide $20 million to
reflect the “rapid increase” in costs related to the military
trial of accused Sept. 11 mastermind Khalid Sheik Mohammed and
four co-defendants. The money would go to the Defense Legal
Services Agency, which is already getting $104.6 million in the
current year.  Congressional Approval  The reprogramming must be approved by the four
congressional defense committees -- the authorization and
appropriations panels in the House and Senate -- before the
shift takes effect.  Reflecting plans to bolster Persian Gulf naval forces, the
Pentagon requested $9.6 million to buy missile launchers for
five ships from  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  That would allow installation of
Griffin missiles on U.S. patrol boats “to protect vessels and
personnel from the increased threat of hostile fast-attack
craft” used by  Iran , according to the document.  The request also includes $6.4 million to buy 40 additional
Griffin missiles for installation on Navy patrol vessels in the
Gulf.  The Pentagon plans to spend $30.2 million on the Raytheon
system through 2017 because it was urgently requested by the
U.S. Central Command, according to the document.  Iraq, Afghanistan  The Defense Department also asked approval to spend $29.9
million, in addition to $80.5 million already budgeted, to
accelerate development of a missile designed to intercept
rockets fired from low-elevation angles by insurgents in Iraq
and Afghanistan at U.S. diplomatic and military personnel.  “This system will greatly improve soldier force
protection,” the Defense Department said in the document.  Within the services, the Army will see a shift of $3.7
billion in funds; the  Air Force , $2.8 billion; the Navy, $1
billion; and Pentagon-wide agencies, $574 million.  Among the Army reductions are $619.7 million from “other
procurement” such as vehicles and electronics, including $334.6
million from the WIN-T Ground Tactical Network made by  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD)   Also from the Army, $514 million would be shifted from
operations and maintenance; $102.9 million from tracked combat
vehicles; and $86.4 million from ammunition.  The reprogramming requests that $228 million be shifted
from Navy personnel accounts and $119 million from cruiser
modernization programs.  ‘Glide’ Bombs  At the request of the Marines Corps, the Pentagon asked to
shift $8 million to start a new program arming small drones with
precision-guided “glide” bombs. The RQ-7B Shadow drones are
designed to fly as high as 8,000 feet (2,438 meters.)  The money would buy 215 bombs Marines could use to kill
insurgents in Afghanistan who plant roadside bombs, the Pentagon
said.  “The First Marine Expeditionary Force estimated 90
occasions over a six-month” Afghan deployment when insurgents
could have been attacked, the Pentagon said.  The Pentagon also acknowledged the U.S. needs to be more
vigilant in tracking social-media sites globally. The Defense
Department sought $2.7 million to give special operations
commandos access to instant translations and transcriptions.  “A combination of emergent technologies and new social
media -- i.e. Twitter, blogs, Facebook -- and current events has
brought about the critical need to find a solution to this
capability gap,” the Pentagon said in the document.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  