-- Personal Spending in U.S. Probably Stalled on Smaller Job Gains
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-29T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/personal-spending-in-u-s-probably-stalled-on-smaller-job-gains.html
Consumer spending  in the U.S.
probably stalled in May as slower job growth and subdued wage
gains prompted Americans to cut back, economists said before a
report today.  Household purchases, which account for about 70 percent of
the economy, were unchanged after a 0.3 percent gain in April,
according to the median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Another report may show consumer sentiment
dropped in June to a six-month low.  Merchants from  CarMax Inc. (KMX)  to  Red Robin Gourmet Burgers
Inc. (RRGB)  are feeling the pinch of restrained household incomes tied
to a jobless rate that’s exceeded 8 percent for 40 straight
months. While gasoline prices are less of a burden on Americans,
the absence of bigger employment gains will make it tough for
spending and the expansion to accelerate.  “The drawdown in savings, lower energy prices, weaker job
growth, you stir that up and what you get is a slightly softer
consumer spending profile,” said  Eric Green , global head of
foreign exchange, rates and commodities at TD Securities in  New
York . “We’re looking for a deceleration in consumer spending
relative to what we saw in recent quarters.”  The Commerce Department will release the report at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ forecasts ranged from a decline
of 0.3 percent to a gain of 0.3 percent.  The data may also  show  incomes grew 0.2 percent in May for
a second month, the weakest back-to-back gains since October and
November, according to the survey median.  Retail Sales  An early indicator of spending by consumers, retail sales
 fell  in May for a second month, Commerce Department figures
showed June 13. Purchases excluding automobiles slumped by the
most in two years.  Cooling demand coincides with a weakening of the labor
market. Companies added 82,000 workers to payrolls last month,
the fewest since August. Next week, the Labor Department may
report private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose
by about 100,000 in June, completing the weakest quarter since
January-March 2010, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Consumers have had to rely on savings to boost spending as
income growth slowed. The  saving rate  slipped to 3.4 percent in
April, matching February as the lowest reading since December
2007.  A report yesterday showed the economy expanded at a revised
1.9 percent annual rate in the first quarter, underpinned by a
gain in consumer spending that’s showing signs of fading.
Household  purchases  rose at a 2.5 percent annual pace compared
with a previously reported 2.7 percent gain. The prior quarter’s
rise was 2.1 percent.  Consumer Sentiment  Dwindling income prospects are also souring household
sentiment. At 9:55 a.m., a report from Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan may show its final index of consumer sentiment fell to 74.1,
matching the preliminary figure and the lowest since December,
 according  to the Bloomberg survey median.  “The casual dining industry started off strongly in
January, February and then hit some major headwinds,” Stephen Carley, chief executive officer of Red Robin Gourmet Burgers,
said during an investor conference on June 19. “That reflects
both  consumer confidence  being at risk and the fact that
discretionary income is down for consumers. Unemployment
continues to be a tremendous damper.”  Households may also be growing wary of buying big-ticket
items like vehicles. Cars and light trucks sold at a 13.7
million annual rate in May, the slowest this year and down from
April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data show.  Consumer Drag  “The weak economy and high  unemployment rate  continues to
be a drag on the consumer,” Thomas Folliard, chief executive
officer at CarMax, a Richmond, Virginia-based used-vehicle
retailer, said on a conference call with analysts on June 21.  Retail shares have declined on signs Americans are spending
less. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
fallen 8 percent since the end of April, compared with a 4.9
percent decrease for the broader  S&P 500 .  Declining  fuel prices  may be a lone bright spot for
consumers. The cost of a gallon of regular gasoline at the pump
has fallen 57 cents to $3.37 after reaching a high in early
April, according to AAA, the largest U.S. auto group.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  