-- Peter Madoff Admits Aiding Brother’s Ponzi Scheme
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o ,   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/peter-madoff-bernie-s-brother-to-plead-guilty.html
Peter Madoff  pleaded guilty to
enabling his brother Bernard Madoff to pull off the biggest
 Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history -- though Peter denied knowing the
business was a sham until the firm collapsed.  The chief compliance officer of Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, or BLMIS, who helped his brother run
the firm for four decades, Peter Madoff pleaded guilty yesterday
in Manhattan federal court to one count of conspiracy to commit
 securities fraud  and one count of falsifying records. The plea
came three years to the day after his brother was sentenced to
150 years in prison.  Madoff, 66, told the court he had no knowledge of his
brother’s scheme until Dec. 9, 2008, the night  Bernard Madoff 
confessed to him that the investment business was a sham.
Bernard Madoff would be arrested and confess to authorities two
days later, on Dec. 11, 2008.  “When my brother told me about his fraud, I was in shock
and my world was destroyed,” Peter Madoff said in court during
his plea. “I lost my reputation and any future ability to
support my family financially. My family was torn apart as a
result of my brother’s atrocious conduct, and I became reviled
by strangers as well as former friends who assumed that I had
known about the Ponzi scheme.”  10 Years  Peter Madoff, a graduate of Fordham University Law School
who began working at the Manhattan firm in 1965, agreed in his
plea not to ask U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain in New
York for less than a 10-year term.  Peter Madoff claimed in regulatory filings that the
business had 23 client accounts when in reality it had more than
4,000 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent balances.
Investors were thought to have lost $20 billion in principal,
though the firm’s trustee has said the figure is closer to
$17 billion.  The regulatory statements he filed were designed to create
the false appearance that the investment advisory business run
by Bernard Madoff had a small number of sophisticated clients
and fewer assets under management in order to avoid scrutiny by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Lisa Baroni told the judge yesterday.  “The evidence would show that had Peter Madoff actually
done the compliance work that he claimed he did, he would have
found that there were no real trades in the investment advisory
business,” Baroni said.  ‘Total Shock’  Madoff insisted yesterday that he had no idea about his
brother’s fraud and viewed him as a successful trader, as had
others on  Wall Street .  “I was in total shock, unable to absorb the full import of
the words I was hearing,” Madoff said, describing his reaction
upon hearing his brother’s confession.  “My brother was widely viewed as one of the most honorable
as well as the most successful traders of our time, and no one
believed it more than I did. I revered him and trusted him
implicitly.”  Madoff, who was wearing a brown suit, blue tie and Gucci
loafers, apologized to the court and his victims. He told Swain
he was under a doctor’s care and was being treated for stress
and anxiety. The judge later ordered him to participate in a
mental health treatment program before his sentencing.  “I am deeply ashamed of my actions,” he said, his voice
choking with emotion. “And I am here today to take
responsibility for my conduct.”  Helped Brother  Unlike court proceedings for his brother, none of the
victims spoke in court yesterday about the effect of the Ponzi
scheme on them.  Peter Madoff, who came and left the Lower Manhattan
courthouse accompanied by his lawyers, declined to comment to
reporters.  During his allocution, Peter Madoff said he helped his
brother structure financial transactions to avoid payments to
the  Internal Revenue Service  and received income he didn’t
report. This included fringe benefits including free meals, a
no-show job for his wife, country club membership and life
insurance premiums.  He said his brother never offered to give him a share of
the firm, and made it clear he would never be a partner.  “I revered him and trusted him implicitly,” Peter Madoff
said. “There was no doubt that Bernie was the boss.”  False Certifications  Peter Madoff admitted he didn’t have any experience with
rules governing registered investment advisers and that he
failed to test his brother’s claims that he was trading in
client accounts. He said he falsely certified an annual review
of the firm’s compliance with investment advisory laws.  Peter Madoff said he allowed his brother to file an
investment advisory registration that included false statements,
including that the firm had only 23 accounts, as opposed to the
4,900 reflected on the firm’s statements in 2008.  After learning of the Ponzi scheme, he said he helped his
brother parcel out the $300 million remaining in the firm to
select friends and family members.  “I was devastated, but nevertheless I did as my brother
said, as I consistently had done for decades,” he said.  Baroni told Swain that Peter Madoff conspired to choose
which clients should get the remaining money at the firm before
its collapse. After finding out that federal authorities had
frozen his assets, he pocketed $200,000 he had withdrawn from
the firm to give to charity, she said.  Without citing evidence that Peter Madoff knew of the
fraud, the court-appointed trustee overseeing the recovery of
funds and the liquidation of the firm has built a case against
him and other family members in a series of amended complaints
since the lawsuit was first filed in October 2009.  Investigation Continues  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara vowed the
government’s investigation, started almost four years ago with
the fund manager’s confession, would continue.  “We are not yet finished calling to account everyone
responsible for the epic fraud of Bernard Madoff and the epic
pain of his many victims,” Bharara said in a statement.  Peter Madoff “enabled the largest fraud in human history.
He will now be jailed well into old age, and he will forfeit
virtually every penny he has,” Bharara said.  Madoff, who was also sued by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, agreed to forfeit $143.1 billion, including
all real and personal property. The forfeiture calculation is
based on the total funds that passed through the Madoff firm
during the fraud.  Homes, Cars, Rolex  Peter Madoff didn’t agree to cooperate in the
investigation, according to court documents. A forfeiture order
that he agreed to requires him to turn over all his assets,
including cash, homes, cars and a Rolex watch, to the
government.  A settlement reached with his family requires the
forfeiture of assets held by his wife, Marion, his daughter,
Shana Madoff Swanson, and other family members, Bharara’s office
said in a statement.  “Marion Madoff is being left with approximately $771,733
to live on for the rest of her life,” Bharara said in the
statement.  “Peter Madoff played an essential enabling role in the
largest investment fraud in U.S. history,” FBI Assistant
Director Janice K. Fedarcyk said in a statement. “He made a
pretense of compliance; he was really about complicity.”  October Sentencing  Swain accepted the plea agreement and approved bail,
allowing Madoff to remain free before his Oct. 4 sentencing. He
was released this afternoon on a $5 million personal
recognizance bond secured by $1 million cash or property and six
co-signers. Swain restricted his travel to the New York
metropolitan area and surrounding counties, and he and his wife
were ordered to surrender their passports.  Peter Madoff’s lawyer, John Wing, declined to comment as he
left the courthouse with his client.  “People, especially the victims, will never be satisfied
by this,” said  Anthony Sabino , a law professor at  St. John’s
University  in New York. He said the forfeiture amount is a
formality: “We all know he doesn’t have that. The number is
symbolic and meant to ensure there’s no loophole for him to
enrich himself.”  Bernard Madoff told a judge at his sentencing in the same
courthouse that he deceived his brother, his two sons and wife,
Ruth, about the multibillion-dollar fraud.  “ Bernie Madoff  claiming that he acted alone was
ridiculous,” said  Anthony Barkow , a former federal prosecutor
in New York and a partner at Jenner & Block LLP. “His surrender
was clearly a strategy to try to insulate his family and co-
conspirators and made it more difficult for the government to
make the case, so it’s taken time but they’ve shown that they’re
clearly working on it.”  Green Light  The forfeiture Peter Madoff agreed to gives the government
a green light to pursue any and all assets it can tie to him.  “It’s an obscene amount of money, clearly designed to
ensure that every dollar he ever earned and any asset he ever
acquires is taken away from him and given to the victims,”
Barkow said.  Denny Chin, then the U.S. district judge who presided over
Bernard Madoff’s case, imposed an order upon the  money manager 
requiring him to forfeit $170.8 billion in June 2009. The amount
“represented the amount of proceeds traceable to the commission
of the offenses,” and a judgment representing the property
involved in money-laundering offenses that Bernard Madoff
pleaded guilty to committing.  Since then, federal authorities have been hunting for
Madoff’s assets, seeking forfeiture of the billions of dollars
they said moved through his firm since the fraud began in the
1980s.  Brother’s Prison  Bernard Madoff, 74, now at the federal prison in Butner,
North Carolina, has a  release date  of Nov. 14, 2139, according
to the  Federal Bureau  of Prisons.  Thirteen people have been charged with criminal wrongdoing
in the almost four years since federal authorities began their
investigation of Madoff’s firm. Peter Madoff is the eighth
person and the highest-ranking employee other than his brother
to plead guilty in the case.  Swain is also presiding over the cases of five other Madoff
employees who have pleaded not guilty. No trial date has been
set for them. Yesterday was the first time since Bernard
Madoff’s March 2009 guilty plea that a family member admitted
wrongdoing while working at the firm.  Frustrated Victims  Stephen Miller , a partner at Cozen O’Connor in Philadelphia
and also a former federal prosecutor, said Bernard Madoff’s
guilty plea left many victims frustrated that he didn’t give
more information about the workings of the decades-long Ponzi
scheme.  Over three decades, Bernard Madoff built a reputation as a
brilliant stock picker who delivered steady returns through both
bull and bear markets. He attracted an international client
roster that included celebrities such as filmmaker  Steven Spielberg , fund manager J.  Ezra Merkin , charities, universities,
friends, professional baseball team owners and European royalty.  The facade collapsed on Dec. 11, 2008, when Madoff
confessed to authorities that his firm was a sham. After a rush
of investor redemptions, Madoff admitted he used money from new
investors to pay old ones.  ‘Money is Gone’  “The money is gone,”  Andrew Madoff  quoted his father as
telling the family in an authorized family biography published
last year. “It’s all been one big lie. It’s a giant Ponzi
scheme and it’s been going on for years, and there have been all
these redemptions, and I can’t keep it going anymore. I can’t do
it.”  Regulators later said his investment advisory business
hadn’t made a trade in at least 13 years while thousands of
investors lost their life savings.  At Madoff’s June 29, 2009, sentencing, his failure to
identify accomplices was cited by Chin as a reason for a prison
term six times longer than those meted out to the chief
executives of WorldCom Inc. and Enron Corp., who perpetrated two
of the larger corporate frauds in U.S. history.  For decades, Peter Madoff worked alongside his brother at
an office in the lipstick-shaped building at 885 Third Avenue in
midtown Manhattan, where Madoff Securities occupied three
floors.  Lawyer Daughter  The brothers were joined by Peter Madoff’s daughter, Shana,
a lawyer, and Bernard Madoff’s sons Andrew and Mark.  Both sons worked for the legitimate, market-making side of
the business and said they had no knowledge of the fraud until
the day their father confessed to them.  Peter Madoff admitted that, in his role as chief compliance
officer at the firm, he schemed to commit securities fraud by
making false statements to investors about the firm’s compliance
program as well as the nature and scope of its investment
advisory business.  He also pleaded guilty to falsifying business records of an
 investment adviser . Both charges carry a maximum statutory term
of as long as five years in prison and a fine of at least
$250,000.  “It’s important for your honor to know that at no point
before December 2008 was I aware that he was involved in any
kind of Ponzi scheme,” Peter Madoff said yesterday. “I truly
believed my brother was a brilliant investor and trader.”  ‘Family Piggy Bank’  Bernard Madoff’s sons, along with Peter Madoff and his
daughter, treated the company as a “family piggy bank,”  Irving Picard , the trustee, said in a lawsuit against Madoff family
members.  Peter Madoff took $90.4 million from the firm, including
$41.6 million in compensation, during his years there, according
to Picard. His wife, Marion, was paid an additional $1.5 million
for a no-show job at the firm, Picard said. Madoff used the
money to pay off a mortgage on his house in Old Westbury, New
York, and buy homes on Park Avenue in Manhattan and in Palm
Beach, Florida, according to Picard.  In addition to an Aston Martin, bought and restored with
company money, Peter Madoff bought a Ferrari and charged luxury
clothes and wines to his and his wife’s American Express cards.
Picard also accused him of backdating trades to withdraw a total
of $19.3 million from his Madoff investment advisory accounts,
which was more than he had deposited.  Picard is now seeking $255.3 million from the Madoff family
for the benefit of Bernard Madoff’s victims.  Compliance Responsibilities  Shana Madoff Swanson, also a Fordham University Law School
graduate, served as the firm’s in-house lawyer and shared
responsibilities with her father and uncle for all compliance-
related activities, Picard alleged.  Peter and Shana Madoff helped to complete the 2008 filing
with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that portrayed
the Madoff firm as having 23 customer accounts and managing
$17.1 billion. She hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  Her lawyer, Mark Warren Smith, didn’t return a June 28
voice-mail message seeking comment on her father’s plea
agreement.  Andrew Madoff, who holds a bachelor’s degree from the
Wharton School of the  University of Pennsylvania , was controller
of the U.K. entity, which helped “create the false impression”
that Bernard Madoff actively traded shares in customer accounts,
when he was merely recording and paying profits with new
deposits, Picard said.  Mark Madoff committed suicide in Dec. 11, 2010, two years
to the day after his father’s arrest.  No Knowledge  Martin Flumenbaum , a lawyer representing Andrew Madoff and
the estate of Mark Madoff, previously said the brothers had no
knowledge of the fraud until their father confessed to them the
day before his arrest. Neither was charged with a crime.
Flumenbaum didn’t return a voice-mail message seeking comment on
Peter Madoff.  Bernard Madoff’s fraud came to light after his sons turned
him in to U.S. authorities, saying he told them he was operating
a Ponzi scheme. They later reported their father for giving away
watches and jewelry worth $1 million in alleged violation of a
court asset-freeze order.  Ira Lee Sorkin, a lawyer for Bernard Madoff, didn’t return
a call on June 28 seeking comment on Peter Madoff.  The case is U.S. v. Madoff, 10-cr-00228, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in Manhattan federal court at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 