-- Philippine Peso Heads for Best Month Since January on Growth
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-06-29T03:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/philippine-peso-heads-for-best-month-since-january-on-growth.html
The Philippine peso rose, headed for
its biggest monthly gain since January, as the fastest pace of
economic expansion in  Southeast Asia  draws overseas investors.  The peso is the best performer this quarter among the
region’s 10 most-active currencies as funds based abroad bought
$568 million more Philippine shares than they sold. Ruperto
Majuca, assistant director general of the National Economic
Development Authority, said second-quarter growth may be close
to the 6.4 percent in the first three months of the year, the
most since the period ended September 2010. Markets across  Asia 
rallied as European officials pledged support for  Spain .  “It’s mostly a reflection of the good economic data about
the  Philippines  that’s tempering  risk aversion  caused by worries
in  Europe ,” said Rafael Algarra, executive vice president of
financial markets at Security Bank Corp. in Manila. “Most of
the data, from fiscal to growth to inflation, is supportive for
the economy.”  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 42.278 per dollar as of
11:55 a.m. in Manila, taking gains this month to 2.8 percent and
1.5 percent for the quarter, prices from Tullett Prebon Plc show.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings
used to price options, fell 145 basis points, or 1.45 percentage
points, to 6.3 percent this month. It was unchanged today.  Debt Sale Target  European leaders agreed to drop a condition that emergency
loans to Spanish banks would give their governments preferred
creditor status. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker ,
who heads the group of euro-area finance ministers, said
officials agreed on “short-term measures” to aid Spain and Italy
after a meeting in Brussels.  “We will keep all options open to make the interventions
that need to be done to calm the situation,” Juncker told
reporters.  The Philippines’ budget deficit in 2013 will probably
amount to 241 billion pesos ($5.7 billion), or 2 percent of
gross domestic product, compared with a target of 279.1 billion
pesos, or 2.6 percent of GDP this year, Budget Secretary Butch
Abad said on June 16.  The Philippines plans to sell 108 billion pesos of bills
and bonds in the third quarter, the Bureau of the Treasury said
yesterday. That compares with 106.5 billion pesos of the
securities it planned to sell this quarter.  The yield on 6.375 percent government bonds due January
2022 fell 13 basis points today and 26 basis points this month
to 5.29 percent, according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  