-- PSG Rejoins Race to Sign Arsenal’s Van Persie: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-29T07:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/psg-rejoins-race-to-sign-arsenal-s-van-persie-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  PSG Wants RVP  Paris Saint-Germain rekindled its interest in rivaling
 Manchester City  to sign Arsenal striker Robin  van Persie , the
 Daily Mail reported .  PSG director Leonardo made tentative inquiries about Van Persie’s availability this off-season after the French club was
initially told that the Gunners had no intention of selling
their captain, the newspaper added.  Improved Offer  Newcastle will offer about 6 million pounds ($9.3 million)
for France right-back Mathieu Debuchy after his club Lille
rejected a 4 million-pound bid, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Newcastle manager  Alan Pardew  also wants to sign FC Twente
striker Luuk de Jong and Ajax’s Vurnon Anita, who can play at
left-back or in midfield, the Mirror added.  Wigan Winger  Liverpool will move for Wigan winger Victor Moses if top
transfer target Gylfi Sigurdsson chooses to join Tottenham
Hotspur, the  Sun said .  Wigan owner Dave Whelan rejected Chelsea’s 4 million-pound
bid for the 21-year-old Moses last week, saying he wants more
than double that, the newspaper added.  Rooney Rested  Wayne Rooney  has been told he doesn’t have to go on
Manchester United’s pre-season tour of South Africa and China
after his fitness was called into question at the European
Championship, the  Daily reported .  Rooney and the rest of the United players who featured at
the tournament will instead undergo a conditioning program at
the club’s training complex, the newspaper added.  Spurs Surplus  West Ham United is trying to sign Tottenham central
defender  William Gallas , who may be available on a free
transfer, the  Sun reported .  Spurs want to acquire Belgium defender Jan Vertonghen from
Dutch champion Ajax to play alongside  Michael Dawson  or Younes Kaboul, making Gallas surplus to requirements, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  