-- Top Seeds Sharapova, Djokovic Reach Wimbledon Fourth Round
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-29T17:06:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/querrey-beats-canada-s-raonic-to-reach-third-round-of-wimbledon.html
Top-seeded Maria Sharapova defeated
Su-Wei Hsieh of  Taiwan  in the third round of Wimbledon as the
French Open champion tries to win back-to-back Grand Slam tennis
titles.  Novak Djokovic, the men’s top seed from  Serbia , defeated
 Radek Stepanek  of the Czech Republic 4-6, 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 on
Centre Court to reach the fourth round. Four-time Grand Slam
champion Kim Clijsters also advanced.  Sharapova won 6-1, 6-4. The 25-year-old Russian captured
her first Roland Garros title this year to go along with the
championships at Wimbledon in 2004, the  U.S. Open  in 2006 and
the Australian Open in 2008.  “She’s a really tricky opponent, she can be really
aggressive and then changes up the pace,” Sharapova said in a
televised interview.  The right-hander plays Sabine Lisicki in the fourth round.
The 15th-seeded German, a semifinalist last year, beat Sloane
Stephens of the U.S. in three sets today.  “That’s a tough one,” Sharapova said. “She’s a really
good grass-court player.”  With the roof on Centre Court closed after rain delayed
early matches, Djokovic failed to convert any of his five break
points in the first set against Stepanek, the oldest man left in
the draw at 33. Stepanek converted his lone break point of the
set.  “He played a terrific first set, he was very aggressive,”
Djokovic said in a televised interview.  Charge Net  Djokovic got a break in the second set and didn’t struggle
afterward, ending the match with 12 aces and six breaks of
serve.  “It was a tough match, but I think I played the second,
third and fourth set extremely well,” Djokovic said. “He’s a
talented and experienced player who has been playing on the tour
for many years. He’s one of the few that comes to the net after
the first serve.”  In another third-round match today, six-time champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland is playing France’s Julien Benneteau.  Clijsters, who plans to retire after the U.S. Open,
advanced to the fourth round after Russia’s  Vera Zvonareva  quit
the match with the Belgian right-hander up 6-3, 4-3. Clijsters
is seeking her first Wimbledon title.  “It’s a pleasure to be part of a second week at a Grand
Slam, especially Wimbledon,” Clijsters said.  Agnieszka Radwanska, the third seed from  Poland , beat
Britain’s Heather Watson, while Christina McHale of the U.S.
lost to Angelique Kerber, the eighth seed from Germany.  Querrey Advances  Sam Querrey  beat Canada’s Milos Raonic to reach the third
round of Wimbledon a year after an elbow injury caused him to
miss the tournament.  The 24-year-old American defeated the No. 21 seed 6-7 (3-
7), 7-6 (9-7), 7-6 (10-8), 6-4 in a match that started
yesterday. Querrey reached the fourth round at the All England
Club in 2010.  “I feel like I’m playing well now,” Querrey told
reporters. “Hopefully after the summer my ranking can be back
in the top 20. It can take a year or even longer for people to
get back where they are.”  Raonic, 21, was trying to make it past the second round of
the grass-court Grand Slam event for the first time.  Viktor Troicki  of Serbia beat Argentina’s  Juan Monaco , the
15th seed, in straight sets. Eighth-seeded Janko Tipsarevic is
taking on Russia’s  Mikhail Youzhny , and a Tipsarevic victory
would give Serbia three men in the fourth round of a Grand Slam
for the first time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  