-- Rand Gains Most in Six Months as EU Deal Boosts Risk Appetite
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-06-29T13:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/rand-gains-most-in-three-weeks-as-eu-deal-boosts-risk-appetite.html
The rand surged the most in six
months and bond yields fell to records as stocks and commodities
rallied after European leaders agreed on measures to support
Spain’s banks, boosting demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency gained as much as 2.7 percent, the
most on an intraday basis since Nov. 30. It traded 2.6 percent
stronger at 8.1871 per dollar as of 3 p.m. in Johannesburg,
paring its depreciation this quarter to 6.3 percent. Yields on
South Africa’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 dropped four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.22 percent, the lowest on
a closing basis on record. The yield has declined 76 basis
points this half.  Leaders of the 17 euro countries gather today for a second
day of talks to discuss measures to stem a debt crisis that’s
spurred five euro members to seek international bailouts.
Yesterday, leaders moved closer to solving the immediate crisis,
dropping requirements that governments received preferred
creditor status on crisis loans to  Spain ’s banks and relaxing
conditions on potential help for  Italy . The euro area buys 22
percent of South Africa’s exports.  “Sentiment has improved and will help risk assets
generally to recover,” Quinten Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based
analyst at Tradition Analytics, wrote in e-mailed comments.
“The risk-on behavior has counted against the dollar this
morning and is well reflected in the crosses including the
dollar-rand.”  Stocks Climb  Emerging-market  stocks  climbed the most in 18 months and
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials had the
biggest jump since January. Commodities account for 45 percent
of South Africa’s exports.  South Africa’s benchmark stock  gauge  advanced for the first
time in three days as commodity exporters, including  Anglo
American Plc (AAL)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , gained.  The rand stayed stronger after private-sector credit growth
accelerated to 8.3 percent in May from 7.3 percent the previous
month, beating the 8 percent median estimate of economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Credit growth wasn’t enough to put pressure on
the central bank to raise  interest rates , said Tertia Jacobs, an
economist at Investec Ltd. in Johannesburg.  “The trend in private-sector credit extension remains
neutral for interest rates, with developments in the  euro zone 
one of the key determinants of domestic monetary policy,”
Jacobs wrote in e-mailed comments. Investec expects the central
bank to leave the benchmark repurchase rate at 5.5 percent
“until late 2013”, she added.  Yields on South Africa’s $1 billion of 5.875 percent bonds
due 2022 dropped six basis points to 3.53 percent, the lowest on
record. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold the debt rather
than U.S. Treasuries declined by 11 basis points to 213.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  