-- Trashy ‘Ted’; Hippies ‘Like Us’; ‘Unforgivable’: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/trashy-ted-hippies-like-us-unforgivable-movies.html
Is anything funnier than a cuddly
teddy bear smoking dope and talking about genitalia in terms too
graphic to repeat here?  Not in “ Ted ,” Seth MacFarlane’s oddball, hit and miss
directorial debut about a hard-living plush toy wished to life
by an 8-year-old boy.  Mark Wahlberg , fully and remarkably committed to the
nonsense, plays the little boy grown up, his stuffed, childhood
“thunder buddy” still at his side and talking trash.  MacFarlane, effortlessly adapting his “ Family Guy ”
cartoon humor to big screen live action, voices the “adult”
Ted with a thick Boston accent, gleeful vulgarity and his
signature reservoir of pop culture asides.  With a storybook-style narration (by  Patrick Stewart ) about
a lonely boy at the holidays, “Ted” begins in 1985, when
little  John Bennett  wants nothing more for Christmas than a
trusty pal.  John gets his wish when his new, floppy-headed Teddy Ruxpin
knock-off comes to life. The digital special effects are
terrific.  Anyone who remembers head-shop posters of  Disney (DIS)  characters
in flagrante, or saw “Howard the Duck,” knows the joke.  TV Debut  MacFarlane and cowriters Alec Sulkin and Wellesley Wild
quickly (and smartly) dispense with shocked reactions. After the
bear makes his TV debut (a digitally altered scene from “The
Tonight Show with  Johnny Carson ” is spot on), he soon becomes
just another has-been child star.  “Ted” then settles into a standard-issue toxic buddy
tale, as the heavy-drinking, hooker-hiring bear causes no end of
friction between 35-year-old John (Wahlberg) and his lovely,
put-upon girlfriend Lori ( Mila Kunis ).  MacFarlane pads the tale with stereotypes and more subplots
than necessary: Lori has a sleazy boss (Joel McHale), and Ted is
stalked by a demented fan (Giovanni Ribisi) with a sadistic
little boy.  For all its naughty laughs and unprintable dialogue, this
bear movie grows awfully tame. Why go to all the trouble of
creating a living doll just to make him the next  Seth Rogen ?  “Ted,” from  Universal Pictures , is playing across the
U.S. Rating: **1/2 (Evans)  Linda Ronstadt  The troublemaker of “ People Like Us ” lived the ’70s high
life, buzzing through L.A.’s Laurel Canyon, palling around with
Linda Ronstadt, picking up chicks at the Troubadour and
producing great albums.  It’s a shame he dies before the movie starts. Sweet as it
is, “People Like Us” could use some of the old man’s edge.  Inspired by real events in the life of first-time director
Alex Kurtzman, “People Like Us” stars  Chris Pine  as Sam
Harper, a slippery  New York  businessman long estranged from his
California hippie parents.  When his record-producer dad dies, Sam heads West for the
funeral, less out of loyalty to his grieving mom ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) than to flee a business deal gone bad.  Disappointment comes when Sam discovers his sole
inheritance is $150,000 in cash -- and instructions to deliver
the windfall to a half-sister Frankie (Elizabeth Banks) and 11-
year-old nephew (Michael Hall D’Addario) he never knew he had.  Kurtzman pumps up the family melodrama with an exasperating
contrivance: For most of the film, Sam doesn’t reveal his
identity (or the inheritance) to the hardscrabble sibling,
instead infiltrating her life by posing as a fellow AA member.  Is Frankie falling for the handsome Sam? “People Like Us”
doesn’t go there, but that ick factor hovers. And there’s
nothing in the conflict that couldn’t be resolved with a minute
of truth and $150,000 in cash.  “People Like Us,” from Dreamworks, is playing across the
U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  Mysterious Writer  A sixtyish writer of mysteries (Andre Dussollier) falls for
the real-estate agent (Carole Bouquet) who rents him an island
house near  Venice . Soon they’re living there together, husband
and wife.  His married daughter (Melanie Thierry) comes to visit and,
not for the first time, disappears. The private eye he hires to
investigate (Adriana Asti) is his wife’s ex-lover, and also the
mother of a troubled son (Mauro Conte) who has just gotten out
of jail.  He hires the son to trail his wife.  Drugs, sex, jealousy and suicide all buzz on the edges of
the French director Andre Techine’s “ Unforgivable .” Yet the
movie is something far more contemplative than a thriller. As in
life, you have a sense of what’s driving these characters
without quite being able to name it.  Techine treats Venice much the same way. It’s there in the
background, imposing; yet you see it only out of the corner of
your eye, and so it adds to the complex texture of the picture
rather than taking it over.  The actors are very fine, especially the women. Asti was a
great beauty when she appeared in Bertolucci’s “ Before the
Revolution ” almost 50 years ago. Her skill hasn’t faded.  Bouquet is still a beauty 35 years after Bunuel mined her
model’s frostiness (as Techine does here) in “ That Obscure
Object of Desire .”  This is a calmly entrancing film about violent emotion --
and not only emotion. When violence does break out, it comes so
swiftly that it may not register quite fully until later. And
then it stays with you, as the whole movie does.  “Unforgivable,” from Strand Releasing, is playing in New
York and  Los Angeles . Rating: **** (Seligman)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and  Zinta
Lundborg  on New York weekend.  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 