-- Treasuries Slide on EU Plan for Loans to Spanish Banks
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-06-29T21:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/treasuries-erase-june-loss-as-pimco-s-gross-bets-on-u-s-debt.html
Treasuries fell, pushing up 10-year
yields the most in almost three months, after euro-area leaders
expanded steps to stem the bloc’s debt crisis, damping demand
for the safest assets.  Thirty-year bond yields increased the most in more than two
weeks as European Union officials meeting in Brussels relaxed
terms on loans to Spanish banks and eased conditions of possible
help for  Italy . Treasuries have still returned 3.4 percent this
quarter, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes, as
investors sought a haven from Europe’s financial turmoil.  “The feel-good trade is on and Treasuries sold off some,
as there is some optimism out of Europe as policy makers are
starting to get their act together,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader
in New York at Societe Generale SA, one of the 21 primary
dealers that trade with the  Federal Reserve . “Still, there is a
wait-and-see attitude given the concerns, as we are not out of
the woods.”  The 10-year note  yield  rose seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.65 percent at 5:01 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
maturing in May 2022 slid 5/8, or $6.25 per $1,000 face amount,
to 100 30/32.  The benchmark yield climbed as much as 10 basis points, the
biggest intraday increase since April 3. It fell three basis
points on the week and rose nine basis points on the month. The
yield touched a record low 1.44 percent on June 1.  The  30-year bond yield  increased eight basis points to 2.75
percent, widening the spread over two-year yields by about eight
basis points to 245 basis points. The long-bond yield climbed as
much as 10 basis points, the most since June 11.  Less Expensive  A valuation measure showed 10-year notes were trading at a
less expensive level. The term premium, a model created by
economists at the Fed, was at negative 0.86 percent, compared
with negative 0.89 percent yesterday. It reached the costliest
ever, negative 0.94 percent, on June 1 as investors sought
refuge from  Europe ’s debt turmoil.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  Europe’s leaders also discussed ways to reduce the risk
premiums on Italian and Spanish bonds, which have stoked concern
among investors and global policy makers that the region’s
currency union threatened to break apart. Officials left open
the timing and conditions of any support, raising the risk that
bickering over the fine print will -- as after prior summits --
nullify the initial boost to confidence.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield dropped as much as 62 basis
points to 6.32 percent. Similar-maturity  Italian yields  slid as
much as 42 basis points to 5.78 percent.  ‘Low Expectations’  Stocks rallied, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
climbing 2.5 percent.  “People had pretty low expectations of the summit and are
a little bit more optimistic now,” Ira Jersey, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Credit Suisse Group AG, a primary
dealer. “The devil is in the details on most of this stuff.”  Treasuries remained lower even after data showed personal
spending in the U.S. stagnated in May and  consumer confidence 
dropped this month.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final index of
sentiment fell to 73.2, from 79.3 at the end of May.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  stalled as slower job gains and a lack of
wage growth prompted Americans to cut back. Purchases were
unchanged, the weakest since November, after a 0.1 percent rise
the prior month that was smaller than initially reported,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington .  A measure of prices tied to consumer spending advanced 1.5
percent in May from the same month a year earlier, the smallest
gain since January 2011 and below the Fed’s long-run goal of 2
percent. The price gauge, excluding food and energy costs,
increased 1.8 percent.  Fed officials last week extended their effort to support
the  U.S. economy  by replacing shorter maturities in their
holdings with longer-term debt. The program, which will now swap
$667 billion through year-end, is known as Operation Twist.
While policy makers refrained from introducing a third round of
large-scale debt purchases under quantitative easing, Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  indicated it remains an option.  The Fed bought $4.67 billion of Treasuries today due from
June 2018 to May 2020 as part of the program.  Quantitative Easing  “It’s very important to focus on the personal consumption
and expenditure,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist
at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London . “The Fed has made clear
it’s worried that consumer spending is slowing. We’re still
having the debate about what’s going to push the Fed into doing
more quantitative easing.”  The Treasury drew weaker-than-average demand this week at
each of three note auctions totaling $99 billion.  Seven-year securities yielded a record low 1.075 percent in
a sale yesterday. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.64, the
lowest since October.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio at a $35 billion sale of five-year
debt on June 27 that drew a yield of 0.752 percent was 2.61,
versus an average of 2.97 at the past 10 offerings. An auction
of the same amount of two-year securities the previous day had a
ratio of 3.62, versus 3.95 at the May offering and an average
3.71 at the past 10. The sale drew a 0.313 percent yield.  Yield Levels  “What this does tell you is that people don’t like the
levels,” said Jersey of Credit Suisse. “It’s hard to like
these yields unless you think there’s going to be a significant
deflationary impulse. It’s hard to imagine a significant rally
if Europe continues to muddle through and the U.S. economy seems
to be stabilizing at lower levels.”  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross  said a
“debt trap” remains in place even after European leaders
reached an agreement that alleviated concern the region’s banks
will fail.  Pimco continues to avoid the debt of nations including
Spain and  Portugal  in favor of U.S. Treasuries and mortgage
securities, Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund, said
in a radio interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.  “The peripherals and even the core union nations have too
much debt,” Gross said. “The marginal cost of that debt is far
above nominal GDP growth in respective nations. That continues a
debt trap unless the cost of debt can come down.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  