-- Reliance Industries Said to Hire Banks for $1.5 Billion Loan
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-06-29T10:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/reliance-industries-said-to-hire-banks-for-1-5-billion-loan-1-.html
Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , owner of
the world’s largest oil-refining complex, hired banks to help
arrange $1.5 billion of loans, according to three people
familiar with the matter.  The facility will be split into a $1 billion, five-year
part and a $500 million, six-year portion, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private. The
loan is expected to be marketed to a wider group of banks in
syndication in early July, the people said.  Mumbai-based Reliance is spending $8 billion to increase
its petrochemical capacity, betting Indian demand for materials
used to make plastics and polyester will help counter weaker
global fuel sales. That’s part of an $18 billion investment plan
aimed at doubling operating profit over the next five years as
outlined by billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani  at the company’s
shareholder meeting in Mumbai earlier this month.  Tushar Pania, a Mumbai-based company spokesman, wasn’t
available to comment on the financing when called at his office
today.  Reliance is offering to pay a margin of about 250 basis
points more than the London interbank offered rate, another
person familiar with the matter said earlier this month.  Largest Borrowing  The company signed a 13-year loan, equivalent to $2 billion,
backed by credit insurer  Euler Hermes SA (ELE)  with nine banks in May,
the largest such borrowing by  India ’s biggest energy company
since May 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of insuring Reliance’s bonds against non-payment
using credit-default swaps has fallen 78 basis points this year
to 322.5 on June 28, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Lenders hired for the $1.5 billion facility include
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Bank of America
Corp., Barclays Plc, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd., HSBC
Holdings Plc, Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp., Westpac Banking Corp.,
Bank of  Nova Scotia , Credit Agricole SA, DBS Bank Ltd., DNB ASA,
Standard Chartered Plc, National Australia Bank Ltd. and  State
Bank  of India, the people said today.  All banks have committed $60 million to the $1 billion
facility except SMBC, which committed the equivalent of $60
million in yen and  State Bank of India , which pledged $100
million, one of the people said today.  For the $500 million part, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ,
Mizhuo and Standard Chartered committed $40 million each, SMBC
pledged the equivalent of $40 million in yen and State Bank of
India pledged $340 million, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  