-- Ringgit Climbs to One-Week High as EU Makes Headway on Crisis
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2012-06-29T04:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/ringgit-climbs-to-one-week-high-as-eu-makes-headway-on-crisis.html
Malaysia ’s ringgit climbed to a one-
week high after European leaders agreed to relax repayment rules
for emergency loans to Spanish banks, allaying concern the
region’s debt crisis will worsen.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of stocks reversed an earlier
loss to gain by the most in almost three weeks after a condition
that governments get preferred creditor status on crisis loans
to Spain’s troubled banks was dropped. Lenders can also be
recapitalized directly with funds rather than going through
governments, European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
today. The ringgit headed for its first quarterly loss since
September 2011 after Malaysia’s exports fell for a second month
in April, official data showed June 6.  “These are things that the market has voiced concern about
and they have addressed some of it,” said  Philip Wee , a
Singapore-based senior currency economist at DBS Group Holdings
Ltd., referring to the European decision. “There’s some
progress with regards to allowing the permanent bailout funds to
recapitalize banks directly.”  The ringgit gained 0.2 percent to 3.1872 per dollar as of
12:12 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It touched 3.1840, the strongest level since June 22.
The currency’s 0.2 percent advance this week pared its monthly
loss to 0.5 percent. The ringgit’s 4 percent decline this
quarter is the second-worst performance among Asia’s 10 most-
traded currencies after India’s rupee.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 20 basis points to 6.80
percent today.  Government bonds  retreated today. The yield on the 3.58
percent notes due September 2018 climbed one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 3.38 percent, according to Bursa
Malaysia. The rate fell 18 basis points this week and 17 basis
points this quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry in  Hong Kong  at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 