-- Federer Recovers From Two Sets Down to Reach Wimbledon 4th Round
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-30T00:08:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/roger-federer-comes-back-from-2-sets-down-to-win-at-wimbledon.html
Roger Federer  stayed calm and relied
on his experience as a six-time champion while escaping from a
two-set deficit to reach the fourth round at Wimbledon.  Federer, the third seed from Switzerland, defeated Julien Benneteau of France 4-6, 6-7 (3-7), 6-2, 7-6 (8-6), 6-1 on a
covered Centre Court of the All England Club in London.  It was the second time this month that Federer came back
from two sets down, having overcome 2009 U.S. Open champion Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina in the quarterfinals of the French
Open. Federer also did it in the first round of Wimbledon in
2010 against Colombia’s Alejandro Falla.  “Having been there so often, down two sets to love,
knowing how to handle the situation, not to panic,” Federer
said in a news conference. “That I guess comes with experience,
but also experience alone is not going to win you the match. I
had to push deep and extremely hard.”  Top seeds  Maria Sharapova  and Novak Djokovic also won
third-round matches yesterday, as did four-time Grand Slam
champion  Kim Clijsters .  Sixth-seeded  Serena Williams  of the U.S. faces No. 25 Zheng
Jie of China in a third-round match today, and two American men
play higher-ranked opponents.  Andy Roddick , seeded 30th, plays
No. 7  David Ferrer  of Spain and unseeded  Sam Querrey  faces  Marin
Cilic , the 16th seed from Croatia.  Also today, fourth-seeded  Andy Murray  of Britain plays
 Marcos Baghdatis  of Cyprus.  Federer extended his five-set record to 20-16 with
yesterday’s win, and has now come back from two sets down eight
times.  “He’s two sets down, and he doesn’t show anything,”
Benneteau said in a news conference. “He was serving very well
at the end of the fourth set, first serve after first serve.”  Early Exit  It looked as if Federer, winner of a men’s record 16 Grand
Slam singles titles, was going to join second-seeded  Rafael Nadal  as early round losers. The Spanish left-hander was
eliminated a day earlier by 100th-ranked Lukas Rosol of the
Czech Republic in the second round.  Federer, who had conceded only nine games in the previous
two rounds for his best start at Wimbledon since 2004, struggled
against Benneteau during the first two hours. The 30-year-old
from France, who missed one month of the clay-court season
because of injury, struck 27 winners in the first two sets, 10
more than Federer.  Benneteau saved three set points at 6-5 down in the second
set, the first one with a forehand, the second with an ace and
the third with a drop shot. Benneteau raced to 6-2 in the
tiebreak, and took a two-set lead as Federer dumped a backhand
into the net, his 19th error.  Federer’s Doubts  “Julien played so well,” Federer said. “He was making me
doubt most of the match.”  After a bathroom break, Federer won the next two sets as he
regained the initiative, hitting 30 winners, 11 more than his
opponent, and reducing his error count to eight.  The clock struck 9 p.m. local time as the fifth set began.  With Vogue editor  Anna Wintour  watching from Federer’s box,
Benneteau got the trainer on court for treatment on his right
thigh after the third game. Federer made Benneteau scramble
around the court in the next game, forcing him into mistakes and
breaking serve with a forehand return winner. Up 5-1, Federer
won the match as Benneteau dumped a backhand into the net.  Benneteau said he had leg cramps in the fifth set, which
made it difficult to serve.  “I tried to stay calm, and I was,” Federer said. “It was
like, he’s still such a long a way from the finish line that
there is no reason right now to go crazy about it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in  London  at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  