-- Romanian Council Says Premier Ponta Plagiarized Thesis
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-06-29T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/romanian-council-says-premier-ponta-plagiarized-doctoral-thesis.html
A Romanian council in charge of
certifying university diplomas found that Prime Minister Victor Ponta plagiarized his doctoral thesis, Marius Andruh, the
council’s head said.  The council’s decision will be sent as a recommendation to
the Education Ministry that it withdraw Ponta’s doctoral title,
Andruh told reporters in Bucharest today. The Romanian interim
Education Minister Liviu Pop told  Mediafax  today that the
decision is void because of a lack of a quorum. He also said
that an ethics committee is entitled to rule on the plagiarism
allegations.  Ponta told Spanish newspaper El Pais yesterday that he will
resign if the ethics committee rules that he plagiarized his
doctoral thesis. It was the first time in the 10 days since the
allegations emerged in Nature magazine and  Germany ’s Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung on June 18. He denied the allegations and
said on June 19 that he had no reason to resign.  Ponta’s doctoral thesis “was analyzed page by page and we
found that 85 of the 307 pages are copied without indicating the
source,” Andruh said. “It’s copy-paste plagiarism.”  Earlier today, the education minister, whose 45-day mandate
expires at midnight, said he issued an order to expand the
number of members of the National Council for Certification of
University Titles, Diplomas and Certificates to 45 from 21. Pop
told Mediafax that he changed the structure of the council
because it failed to meet a June 28 deadline to send an
assessment to the ministry over the country’s doctoral theses
validation proceedings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  