-- Tronox Slows Pigment Output After Cost Gain, Price Drop
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-06-29T20:04:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/tronox-slows-pigment-output-after-cost-gain-price-drop.html
Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , the largest integrated
producer of titanium dioxide, slowed production of the pigment
used in paints and plastics after ore costs rose and prices
declined in  Europe  and the Asia-Pacific region.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization in the second quarter will be about 20 percent less
than first-quarter Ebitda of about $151 million,  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based Tronox said today in a statement.  The company processes ore into titanium dioxide, a white
pigment used to add opacity to paints and plastics. Second-
quarter prices for titanium ore rose $600 per metric ton from
the first quarter, outpacing “moderately higher” prices in the
global pigment business, Tronox said.  “The largest contributing factors to the relative softness
in demand stem from customer reactions to the continued
macroeconomic slowdown in, and risks arising from,  China  and the
Eurozone markets,” Tronox said in the statement. The company
still sees pigment prices across its operations up about 15
percent this year.  Tronox dropped 3.4 percent to $120.41 at the close in  New
York . The shares were listed on the New York Stock Exchange on
June 18 after the company emerged from bankruptcy last year.  Quarterly Dividend  Tronox will initiate a quarterly dividend of $1.25-a-share
and will carry out a 5-for-1 stock split on July 20. The company
also will repurchase as many as 2.5 million shares, partly
funded by new debt, starting “as soon as practical,” Tronox
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tom Casey said in the
statement.  “We therefore continue to expect to add leverage to our
balance sheet, a major part of the proceeds of which we expect
to be returned to our shareholders either as share repurchases
or special dividends,” Casey said. “While we have considered
issuing a special dividend as a way to return capital to
shareholders, we believe our stock is undervalued at the present
trading levels.”  Tronox said it will repurchase $150 million of shares “in
the shorter term,” followed by more buybacks after the debt
issuance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  