-- Russia Stocks Jump Most in Four Months on EU Meeting, Oil Rally
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-06-29T15:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/russia-stocks-jump-most-in-two-weeks-on-eu-meeting-crude-rally.html
Russian stocks surged the most in
four months as oil rallied after European leaders moved closer
to containing the region’s debt crisis, boosting investor
appetite for equities in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 3.3 percent to 1,387.52 by the close
in Moscow, its strongest advance since Feb. 24. The gauge has
lost 8.6 percent this quarter, compared with an 8.2 percent
increase in the first three months of the year. Power stocks
surged, with the  MSCI Russia Utility Index (MXRU0UT)  rising 5.9 percent,
the most since Jan. 3.  Banks rallied , with VTB Group and OAO
Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, adding at least 6.9
percent.  Emerging-market stocks rallied after European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy  said leaders of the 17 euro
countries dropped the requirement that governments get preferred
creditor status on crisis loans to  Spain ’s blighted banks. Crude
oil gained 5.8 percent to $82.23 a barrel in  New York . Oil and
gas contribute about 50 percent to  Russia ’s state revenue.  “The European decision is not a game changer, but it buys
time,” Farhan Kazmi, head of emerging-market equities at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Moscow, said by phone. “People will be
closely watching how things develop in the fiscal union in
 Europe .”  MSCI Inc.’s  Russia Energy Index (MXRU0EN)  rallied 4.5 percent to
936.63, the most since Feb. 24. The  RTS dollar-denominated  index
added 5.4 percent to 1,350.51, the most since May 2010.  OAO MRSK Holding, the country’s largest electricity
distribution company, and Federal Grid Co., the high-voltage
transmission monopoly, were the worst performers on the Micex
this quarter, losing more than 38 percent. MRSK added 5.1
percent to 1.779 rubles today, while Federal Grid gained 3.1
percent to 19.57 kopeks.  Risk Aversion  “The market has been under pressure from escalating  risk
aversion  driving risk premiums higher and valuation lower” this
quarter, Alex Kantarovich, head of research at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in Moscow, said by e-mail on June 25. In the third quarter,
“volatility may persist given the markets may continue to lack
clarity on the Euro crisis development and the risks are on the
downside.”  Among 30 stocks traded on the Micex, 26 declined in the
third quarter. OAO Uralkali, the largest producer of potash by
output, rose 12 percent this quarter. OAO Magnit increased 7.1
percent in the period as four-month net retail revenue jumped 32
percent through April.  Russian stocks trade at 5 times  estimated earnings , having
lost 1.1 percent this year. That compares with a 2 percent
advance for MSCI’s emerging-market gauge which trades at 9.6
times projected earnings.  Asset Sales  Russian equities will maintain the lowest valuations among
emerging-market stocks next quarter as the nation delays state
asset sales, according to analysts at Alfa Capital Partners
Ltd., JPMorgan and Libra Capital.  Prospects for the government sale of a stake in MRSK
Holding faded after the company said on May 11 that it would
merge with Federal Grid.  In April the government postponed a roadshow for a stock
offering for OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender, as the
bank’s shares dropped below a level at which officials were
willing to sell. Igor Shuvalov, Putin’s first deputy, said on
April 16 that the Sberbank sale may be delayed until 2013 or
2014  “The government sends ambiguous signals on
privatization,” Alex Kantarovich, head of research at JPMorgan
in Moscow, said by e-mail on June 25. “The external conditions
are unsupportive as valuations remain depressed.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, lost 1.4 percent to $24.80. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the index
futures, fell 2.9 percent to 36.86 points in New York.  -- Editors: Alex Nicholson, Ash Kumar  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  