-- S. Korea Postpones Military Intelligence Accord With Japan
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-06-29T08:28:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/s-korea-to-sign-military-intelligence-agreement-with-japan-1-.html
South Korea  postponed an agreement
with  Japan  to share military intelligence hours before it was to
be signed because of opposition over the deal with the country’s
former colonial occupier.  “The South Korean side told us that, due to domestic
circumstances, they would not be able to sign today,” Japanese
foreign ministry spokeswoman Naoko Saiki said by telephone.
Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters
the postponement was “disappointing.”  The accord, which was approved by Japanese Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda ’s cabinet today and South Korean President Lee
Myung Bak yesterday, would allow for exchanging information on
 North Korea ’s nuclear weapons and missile programs and on
Chinese military activities. South Korean Ambassador Shin Gak
Soo and Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  were scheduled
to sign it in Tokyo.  While the agreement underscores shared concerns over North
Korea and new leader Kim Jong Un, Japan and South Korea remain
divided over rival claims to a group of islands and the
compensation of women who served as sex slaves during Japan’s
35-year colonization of the Korean peninsula. Activist groups in
Seoul condemned the pact as amounting to a South Korean pardon
of Japan for its conduct before and during World War II.  Relations Sensitive  “The government just didn’t take enough consideration into
how sensitive relations with Japan are for the South Korean
people,” said Kim Kyung Min, a professor of political science
and diplomacy at Hanyang University in  Seoul . “Whether there is
a need for the pact at this very moment is debatable.”  President Lee’s New Frontier Party and the main opposition
Democratic United Party filed separate requests to the prime
minister’s office today demanding that the pact be postponed
until the government explains its details to parliament,
according to NFP spokesman Kim Young Woo and DUP spokeswoman Lee
Un Ju.  North Korea conducted a failed long-range rocket test on
April 13 that heightened regional tensions, and has threatened
to turn Lee’s government “to ashes.” At the same time, Japan
and South Korea have expressed concerns over China’s rising
military influence.  The agreement won’t give Japan full access to sensitive
information and isn’t being signed in response to specific
countries or incidents, Foreign Ministry spokesman Cho Byung Jae
told reporters in Seoul on June 28.  “We’ve notified  China  that we’re willing to sign such an
agreement with them as well, and are waiting for their official
response,” he said.  Compensation Call  Lee in March reiterated his call for Japan to compensate
the remaining Korean women who were forced into prostitution.
Japan apologized in 1993 and set up a compensation fund that
some victims rejected because it was paid for through private,
not government, contributions.  Japan and South Korea also dispute the territorial rights
to a group of rocky islets, known as Dokdo in Korean and
Takeshima in Japanese, that lie in fishing grounds and may have
natural gas deposits. The islands are located 87 kilometers (54
miles) east of the closest South Korean territory and 158
kilometers from the nearest Japanese land.  The two countries are each other’s third-biggest trading
partners and bilateral trade rose 16 percent in 2011 to $106
billion, according to Japanese government statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  