-- San Miguel Chairman Sells 14.7% Stake for $879 Million
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p   a n d   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o
-- 2012-06-29T10:35:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/san-miguel-chairman-sells-14-7-stake-for-879-million.html
San Miguel  Corp. Chairman Eduardo Cojuangco sold a 14.7 percent stake in the Philippines’ largest
company at a discount to President Ramon Ang and its majority
shareholder, raising 37 billion pesos ($879 million).  Ang and majority shareholder Top Frontier Investment
Holdings Inc. paid 75 pesos a share under an option agreement
granted in 2009, according to San Miguel statements today. San
Miguel fell 1 percent to 114 pesos in Manila trading today.  Ang, 58, bought an 11 percent stake, San Miguel said in a
statement. Top Frontier’s purchase was equal to about 3.7
percent of the company, according to Bloomberg calculations
using data in San Miguel’s statements.  The company that  started  as a brewer in 1890, eight years
before the Philippines declared independence from  Spain , has
expanded into other industries such as energy, oil, mining and
recently airlines under Ang’s leadership. The Philippine  Supreme
Court  in April 2011 had ruled Cojuangco’s stake, whose  ownership 
was contested by the government, was legally acquired.  Top Frontier was on Nov. 20, 2009 granted the option to buy
the stake from Cojuangco. After Top Frontier partially exercised
the option, the rest of the stake covered by it was offered to
Ang, according to San Miguel’s statement today.  ‘Friendly Terms’  “Given their long-standing relationship, there would
probably be no changes in the way the company is being run,”
said Astro del Castillo, managing director of Manila-based
investment company First Grade Finance Inc. “Mr. Cojuangco may
be exploring other business opportunities or may prefer to be
more liquid.”  Top Frontier held a 61 percent stake in San Miguel as of
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A May 2011
filing said Top Frontier held about 67 percent of San Miguel’s
common shares, while a group of 44 companies associated with
Cojuangco own 21.2% as of the end of March 2011.  The sale to Ang was conducted “on friendly terms,” San
Miguel said in an e-mailed statement. Ang bought 368.14 million
shares while Top Frontier purchased 125.23 million shares, San
Miguel said in a stock-exchange filing.  “There is no other person deserving of this opportunity to
control a significant stake in the company that is close to my
heart, than Ramon,” Cojuangco, 77, said in the statement.
Cojuangco will remain chairman and chief executive officer even
as he is “passing down control to a trusted friend,” San
Miguel said.  Coconut Farmers  Shares in San Miguel held by Cojuangco and representatives
of coconut farmers had been seized by the government in 1986
after a popular revolt ousted dictator  Ferdinand Marcos . The
Philippine government failed to prove that Cojuangco built his
stake using government funds, the Supreme Court said in an April
2011 ruling.  San Miguel is the nation’s biggest electricity producer and
controls  Petron Corp. (PCOR) , its largest  oil company . Unit San Miguel
Brewery, Inc., which is part-owned by  Japan ’s Kirin Holdings
Co., controls more than 90 percent of the Philippines’ beer
market.  In April, San Miguel acquired a 49 percent stake in
Philippine Airlines Inc. and budget carrier affiliate Air
Philippines Corp. Its other investments include stakes in power
retailer Manila Electric Co and Indophil Resources NL, which has
an indirect stake in the Tampakan gold and copper mine in
southern  Philippines .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  