-- SEC Suspends China Medical ADR Trade on Info Accuracy
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-06-29T19:59:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/sec-suspends-trade-in-china-medical-adrs-on-information-accuracy.html
Trading of  China Medical
Technologies Inc. (CMEDY) ’s American depositary receipts was suspended
by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which cited
questions on the accuracy of the company’s information.  The regulator ordered a temporary suspension in the
Beijing-based medical device company’s shares, starting today
and ending on July 13, according to a  statement  on the SEC’s
website today. The action was caused by “questions that have
been raised about the accuracy and adequacy of publicly
disseminated information concerning, among other things, the
status of the company’s officers and directors, the accuracy of
the company’s financial statements and filings with the
Commission,” the SEC  said .  The SEC enforcement action “further reiterates concern
investors have expressed regarding financial reporting and
corporate governance at Chinese companies over the past two
years,” Kevin Barnes, an equity analyst at Absaroka Capital
Management LLC, said by phone today.  Hong Kong-based Sino-Forest Corp. was delisted from the
Toronto exchange in May after the company filed for bankruptcy
in March. Short-selling firm Muddy Waters LLC first accused the
tree plantation operator of misstating business and assets in
June of 2011. The company, one of more than 300 Chinese
companies listed in  North America , lost C$3.3 billion ($3.2
billion) of market value after the report was released and
hasn’t traded since August.  Winding-Up Petition  Bondholders of China Medical, which is registered in the
 Cayman Islands , directed the Wilmington Trust Co. to file a so-
called winding-up petition on June 15 with the Grand Court of
the Cayman Islands to liquidate the company after it defaulted
on interest payment on two notes from December.  The company issued $150 million of 6.25 percent six-year
convertible bonds in December 2010 and $276 million of 4 percent
five-year convertible bonds in August 2008.  China Medical said it intended to implement a debt
restructuring plan to improve its balance sheet, according to a
Dec. 14 regulatory  filing . The company hasn’t released any
public statements since then.  The Nasdaq stock exchange said March 14 it was delisting
China Medical after its ADRs stopped trading on the exchange
from Feb. 24. The company raised $96 million in an initial
public offering in August 2005 by selling 6.4 million ADRs at
$15 each.  The ADRs, surging to this year’s high of $12 on June 27,
sank 10 percent yesterday to $10.78 on the U.S. over-the-counter
market. They tumbled to a record low of $1.35 on Feb. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  