-- Senegal’s Sall Seeks Parliament Control for Graft Fight
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2012-06-29T09:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/senegal-s-sall-seeks-parliament-control-for-graft-fight.html
Senegal’s President Macky Sall is
seeking to win a parliamentary majority in a July 1 election to
push ahead with plans to combat corruption and cut  government
spending .  Sall, 51, leads the Benno Bokk Yakaar coalition that’s
running for the National Assembly’s 150 seats. The main
challengers are the Parti Democratique Senegalaise, headed by
ex-President  Abdoulaye Wade , and the Bokk Gis Gis coalition led
by the current head of the parliament’s upper house, Pape Diop.  The president needs control of parliament to help implement
changes, such as audits of government departments, that he’s
made since defeating 86-year-old Wade in a March presidential
election, said Abdou Fall, a Senegal analyst at the Institute
for Security Studies in Pretoria,  South Africa .  “Sall’s real political moves will start after the
legislative elections,” Fall said in a June 26 interview. “He
will see the audits through to the end, he will revive the
economy and he will replace the heads of all national companies.
The change of power will be complete.”  Since taking office, Sall has shut 59 state institutions,
such as the National Agency for New Ports of  Senegal  and the
National Agency for the High Authority of the Desert, begun
audits of government programs and created a special court to
prosecute fraud and financial crimes.  Eurobond Yield  Sall has pledged to cut government spending by banning
first-class travel and curbing mobile-phone costs for government
officials. He is also selling one of two presidential jets and
he may reduce the presidential term to five years from seven,
reversing a policy enacted by Wade in 2008.  Senegal’s economy, which earns much of its foreign currency
from exports of fish and peanuts, is forecast to expand 3.9
percent this year compared with 2.6 percent in 2011, according
to the  International Monetary Fund . That’s lower than the 5.3
percent expansion forecast for the eight-country West African
monetary union for this year, which includes Senegal,  Ivory
Coast  and  Mali .  Sall’s coalition will probably win an “overwhelming
majority,”  Samir Gadio , an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in London, said in an e-mail today.  ‘Positive News’  “This would in turn ensure a favorable environment in
which the authorities will be able to push through key pieces of
legislation and maintain the momentum for reform,” Gadio said.
“Such an outcome would be positive news for the holders of the
Senegales Eurobond.”  Since the presidential election, the yield on Senegal’s
$500 million Eurobond due 2021 has declined 86 basis points, or
0.86 percentage point, to 7.181 percent at 9:24 a.m. in Dakar
today.  Some of Wade’s former ministers have been questioned by
state prosecutors over allegations they used their positions for
personal gain. Ousmane Ngom, Wade’s interior minister, was
arrested briefly on June 22 for failing to turn up for
questioning after being summoned by state prosecutors.  Mineral Deposits Ltd. (MDL)  of Australia mines zircon in Senegal,
while Vancouver-based  Oromin Explorations Ltd. (OLE)  is developing a
gold project and  Teranga Gold Corp. (TGZ)  produces the metal from the
Sabodala mine.  France Telecom SA (FTE)  has a 42 percent stake in
telecommunications company  Sonatel (SNTS) , the largest company on the
regional stock market in Abidjan, Ivory Coast by market
capitalization.  Political Partnerships  Even with 66 percent voter support in the presidential
election, Sall would be forced to seek partnerships to meet his
pledges if he doesn’t win a majority in Senegal’s parliament,
Alpha Diedhiou, a senior Africa analyst at Bath, U.K.-based risk
advisory company Maplecroft, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on June 27.  “He will most likely need to build a pro-reform political
alliance in order to carry on enacting his promised public
policy overhaul,” he said. “Sall and his team may have already
identified political groups, especially among the new and
smaller parties, which are amenable to accepting a role in
government.”  Under the Senegalese political system, taken from former
colonial rulers  France , if the president’s party does not win a
majority in the lower house, Sall will have to choose a prime
minister and government acceptable to the other members of the
house. The majority of those members will come from the PDS and
Bokk Gis Gis.  “If this happens, this will be a completely new thing for
Senegal,” said the ISS’s Fall. “There could be a complete
deadlock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar via Accra at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  