-- Serb Economy Contracted for First Time in Two Years Last Quarter
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-29T09:58:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/serb-economy-contracted-for-first-time-in-two-years-last-quarter.html
Serbia ’s  economy  contracted for the
first time in two years in the first three months of the year as
bad weather and capital outflows hampered output.  Gross domestic product shrank 1.3 percent, the same as a
flash estimate on April 30 and 0.6 percent growth in the final
quarter of last year, the statistics office in Belgrade said
today in a statement. GDP contracted 0.2 percent on a seasonally
adjusted basis from the previous three months.  Serbia is trying to avoid a second recession in three years
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, which has damped demand in the Balkan
nation’s main export markets in the European Union. The
 International Monetary Fund  sees Serbia’s economy expanding by
0.5 percent in 2012, compared with full-year growth of 1.6
percent last year.  Economic growth this year will largely be driven by
consumption, rather than net exports or investments, according
to the central bank’s April economic report. The bank sees net
foreign investments declining to 400 million euros ($503
million) this year from 1.8 billion euros in 2011.  The May trade deficit widened in May to 517.6 million euros
from a shortfall of 455 million euros in the previous month, the
statistics office said in a separate report today.  Fiscal Concerns  The central bank has urged lawmakers to lower the budget
deficit and limit public debt to avoid further weakening of the
dinar and give the central bank room to reduce  interest rates 
and spur economic recovery.  President  Tomislav Nikolic  appointed Socialist Party leader
 Ivica Dacic  as prime minister designate yesterday, two months
after inconclusive elections left the country in political
turmoil. Dacic expects to form a coalition government with
Nikolic’s Progressive Party and the United Regions of Serbia
party. They would hold 131 of parliament’s 250 seats.  Serbia needs to form a Cabinet quickly to ease concern over
its fiscal outlook as the economy slows, according to  Fitch
Ratings . It also needs to resume talks with the IMF over a $1.3
billion precautionary loan suspended earlier this year when it
became clear the country would slip on fiscal targets that
include keeping the full-year gap within 4.25 percent of output.  The country needs cash to cover the  budget deficit , which
ballooned because of the economic slowdown and campaign-related
spending. Serbia needs to repay about $1.5 billion in maturing
dinar debt by the end of year, with a quarter of that total due
next month.  The fiscal gap reached 7.3 percent in April, public debt
was at 51.1 percent of gross domestic product at the end of
March, exceeding the debt limit of 45 percent, and the current-
account gap of 17 percent of GDP in the same three-month period,
was double the planned 8.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  