-- Singapore Church Denies Pastor Misused Funds for Wife
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-06-29T02:43:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/singapore-church-denies-pastor-misused-funds-for-wife.html
Singapore ’s City Harvest Church
denied allegations it was cheated of more than S$50 million ($39
million) and said it stood by its founder and four others
charged with dishonestly using its funds.  “No personal profit was gained by the individuals
concerned,” Executive Pastor Aries Zulkarnain said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday night.  Kong Hee , the founder and senior pastor of the church and
four of its other officers were charged in Singapore’s
Subordinate Court this week with conspiracy to misuse S$50.6
million of the church’s funds, including using a portion of the
money to finance the music career of Ho Yeow Sun, Kong’s wife.
Ho hasn’t been charged with any offence.  Kong, 47, faces three counts of dishonestly using S$24
million to promote his wife. Another S$26.6 million was used and
“round-tripped” through a series of complex financial
transactions in a bid to conceal the misuse of the funds,
according to prosecutors.  The S$24 million, which went to investment bonds, was
returned to the church in full, with interest, Zulkarnain said
in the statement. The church didn’t lose any funds and stands by
its members who have been charged, he said.  The Attorney-General’s Chambers declined to comment in an
e-mailed statement on the church’s response as the matter is
before the court.  S$500,000 Bail  Kong, who is out on S$500,000 bail, didn’t enter a plea on
June 27. He faces a jail term of as long as 20 years and an
unspecified fine for each charge if convicted. Kong withdrew
from City Harvest’s payroll in November 2005 and started his own
business, according to a statement on the church’s  website .  Singapore’s white-collar crime agency the  Commercial
Affairs Department  and the charities’ commissioner in May 2010
began investigating the church, which had 23,236 followers as of
December 2010, according to its website.  City Harvest is acting on the recommendations of its
external auditor, which did a “full internal audit,” and has
replaced half the board with new members in the past two years,
Bobby Chaw, said in a statement on behalf of the church’s board.  The charities’ regulator said on June 26 it suspended Kong,
his wife, and six others from executive roles or employment at
the church. The church, registered as a charity since 1993, had
earnings of about S$72 million for the year ended Oct. 31, 2009,
according to the regulator of charities.  City Harvest embarked on a “Crossover Project,” using the
music of Kong’s wife to engage people and places that it would
otherwise have difficulty reaching, the church said in
yesterday’s statement.  Kong’s wife has performed with artists like Wyclef Jean and
sang the theme song for the 2007 Special Olympics World Summer
Games in  Shanghai .  “The church states that the Crossover Project is not about
one person’s singing career,” according to the statement. “It
is a mission that is fundamental to the congregation.”  The criminal case is: Prosecutor v. Kong Hee.
DAC023148/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  