-- Singapore Opens S$1 Billion, 101-Hectare Park to Boost Tourism
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2012-06-29T02:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/singapore-opens-s-1-billion-101-hectare-park-to-boost-tourism.html
Singapore opened its S$1 billion
($782 million) 101-hectare (250-acre) downtown park today, the
city’s newest tourist attraction, as it seeks to boost visitor
arrivals by as much as 10 percent this year.  Gardens by the Bay, a park filled with flora and fauna
found in regions like  South America  and Africa, will attract as
many as 5 million visitors a year, Chief Executive Tan Wee Kiat
said in an interview. The botanical space, which includes six
themed gardens and two climate-controlled conservatories, sits
on reclaimed land across from the downtown casino resort.  “We could have easily used this for far more valuable
commercial or residential developments, right in the middle of
the new Singapore city,” Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in
a speech late yesterday. The city’s planners “believe a large
and beautiful park was an important element of our new downtown.
Just like Central Park in  New York  or Hyde Park in  London ,
although not quite as big,” he said.  The project, first started about six years ago, is part of
the island’s move to expand its  tourism industry  and reduce its
reliance on exports. The government said in March it plans to
spend a further S$905 million over the next five years boosting
the city-state’s tourism sector. The gardens are funded by both
the government and private contributions, with donations from
companies including  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp Ltd. (OCBC)   Singapore has added new attractions in the past five years,
including two casino-resorts that include a downtown convention
center and a Universal Studios theme park in the Sentosa island
resort.  The latest park includes more than 226,000 species of
plants such as a 1,000-year-old olive tree flown in from  Spain ,
as well as South Africa’s king sugar bush and Chile’s cabbage
tree, where visitors walk through on 3-meter (9.8-foot) wide
concrete paths in climate-controlled domes.  “This is the first tropically-focused garden” probably in
the world, Tan said late yesterday. “We are competing for the
interest of the young, who are more seduced by informational
technology and we have to reconnect them to” nature.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  