-- Solyndra Seeks More Time to File Bankruptcy Reorganization Plan
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-06-29T23:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/solyndra-seeks-more-time-to-file-bankruptcy-reorganization-plan.html
Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
that received a $535 million U.S. Energy Department loan
guarantee for seeking  bankruptcy protection , asked a judge to
extend the deadline for filing its reorganization plan.  Lawyers for the Fremont, California-based manufacturer are
asking U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,
Delaware, to give them almost two additional months to craft a
plan to sell off its assets to satisfy creditors. The plan would
be due Aug. 31, according to court filings.  More time will allow Solyndra executives to file “a
consensual Chapter 11 plan, thus avoiding complex and protracted
litigation,” the company’s lawyers said in a June 28 court
filing.  The company sought Chapter 11 protection in September 2011
just days before its offices were raided by the U.S.  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation seeking evidence of possible fraud. The
company fired more than 1,000 workers.  Solyndra was one of about 40 alternative-energy projects
that received funding from a U.S. Energy Department loan program
that helped companies seeking to generate power through wind,
solar or other forms of renewable energy. Government officials
said they hoped the projects could create more than 50,000 jobs.  Solyndra’s collapse prompted congressional scrutiny of
President  Barack Obama , who praised the company during a May
2010 tour of its facilities. The company faced criticism from
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory.  The case is In re Solyndra LLC, 11-12799,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  