-- South Africa’s ANC Fails to Reach Decision on Mining Tax
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-29T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/south-africa-s-anc-fails-to-reach-decision-on-mining-tax.html
South Africa ’s  African National
Congress  failed to reach an agreement on imposing new mining
taxes and ruled out nationalization, while calling for
“radical” policies to combat poverty and create jobs.  The ruling party didn’t finalize discussion on what
instruments to use to extract more revenue from mining
companies, Enoch Godongwana, head of the party’s economic
transformation committee, told reporters in Johannesburg
yesterday. He spoke at the conclusion of the ANC’s four-day
policy conference.  A study commissioned by the ANC in 2010 called for a 50
percent “resources rent tax” on all mining operations,
triggered once companies earn returns in excess of about 15
percent annually. The tax would generate about 40 billion rand
($4.8 billion) at current prices, according to the study.  “The greater consensus was that there should be greater
state intervention,” Godongwana said. “We agree in principal
that the tax instruments may be utilized to capture the mineral
rent.”  President  Jacob Zuma , who is seeking a second term as party
leader in December, is struggling to create more jobs and combat
poverty in Africa’s largest economy. The ruling party, which
controls about two-thirds of seats in Parliament, is seeking
more revenue from mining, risking investment in the world’s
biggest producer of platinum, chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Rio Tinto Group Plc (RIO)  and
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the country.  ‘Radical Policies’  The ANC is pushing for “more radical policies and decisive
action to achieve the change we envisage,” Zuma said in a
speech to party members yesterday. “Mining should have a
developmental impact and promote  job creation . The state should
also capture an equitable share of mineral resource rents.”  The rand gained 2.8 percent against the dollar to 8.1684 as
of 8:46 p.m. in Johannesburg yesterday.  South Africa’s Chamber of Mines rejected the mining tax
proposals as “unwelcome and insupportable,” according to a
draft copy of a report submitted to the ANC, and obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The ANC undertook a study on state intervention in the
 mining industry  after the party’s Youth League lobbied for a
policy of nationalizing mines to give the black majority a
bigger stake in the country’s mineral wealth. The study found
that nationalization would result in a near collapse of foreign
investment and access to finance, widespread litigation by
foreign investors, and be “an unmitigated economic disaster”
for the country.  Land Policy  ANC delegates this week agreed that nationalization of
mines is “inappropriate,” Godongwana said.  While the ANC’s study proposed export levies on coal and
iron ore to ensure security of supply, the party failed to
define “strategic minerals” during its discussion, Godongwana
said.  The government has rejected imposing windfall taxes before.
In 2005, it appointed a task team to investigate whether to
impose the tax on  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest coal-to-motor
fuel producer. The National Treasury decided against it in 2007,
saying it may deter investment.  ANC delegates this week also discussed changes to the
government’s land reform policy to speed up the redistribution
of farms to black  South Africans .  The policy of a “willing seller, willing buyer” must be
scrapped to accelerate the process, Agriculture Minister Tina Joemat-Pettersson told reporters in Johannesburg yesterday. Fair
compensation will be paid for the land, which the Constitution
says can be expropriated in the public good, she said.  The ANC didn’t consider a proposal contained in party
documents to force pension funds and insurers to buy the bonds
of state-owned companies, Godongwana said.  “I’m not a proponent of that,” he said. “It’s not that
the financial institutions don’t want to invest in bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  