-- South Africa Mines Chamber Rejects ANC Windfall-Tax Plan
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-06-29T11:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/south-africa-mining-chamber-rejects-anc-s-windfal-tax-proposal.html
The South African Chamber of Mines
rejected proposals being considered by the ruling  African
National Congress  to extract more revenue from the industry
through a windfall tax and other levies.  A study commissioned by the ANC in 2010 called for a 50
percent “resources rent tax” on all mining operations,
triggered once companies earn returns in excess of about 15
percent annually. The tax would generate about 40 billion rand
($4.9 billion) at current prices, according to the study.  The “recommendation that a resources rent tax be imposed
on the  mining industry  is both unwelcome and insupportable,”
the chamber said in a draft submission to the ANC, which was
obtained by Bloomberg News. “It amounts to what will be a
significant increase on the industry’s existing tax burden. In
addition to weakening the industry’s position in the global
marketplace, it will have a major detrimental impact on the
ability of some mining companies to sustain themselves.”  South Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,  Rio Tinto
Group Plc (RIO)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  have operations in the country
and all are members of the mining chamber.  The ANC undertook the study after its Youth League lobbied
for the party to adopt a policy of nationalizing mines to give
the black majority a bigger stake in the country’s mineral
wealth. The study found nationalization would result in a near
collapse of foreign investment and access to finance, widespread
litigation by foreign investors, and be “an unmitigated
economic disaster” for the country.  Reinvestment  “The rent resources tax proposal is, in effect,
nationalization without compensation of 50 percent of the return
to investors once normal business taxes, including royalties,
have been paid,” the chamber said. The study appears to have
paid little attention “to the reality that a large proportion
of the extra profits raised during a boom cycle are used by
mining companies for reinvestment either to sustain existing
operations or to invest in new ventures.”  The ANC is discussing the proposals at a policy conference
at Midrand, near Johannesburg, and will announce its
recommendations later today. The proposals will be taken to the
party’s national conference in December for ratification.  Jabu Maphalala, a spokesman for the Johannesburg-based
chamber, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and voice
message left on his mobile phone.  Export Taxes  The ANC’s report on state intervention in the mining sector
also called for export levies on coal and iron ore to ensure
security of supply, and for existing sales-based royalties to be
reduced to encourage extraction, a concession that would cost
about 4 billion rand.  Other recommendations include a 50 percent capital gains
tax on the transfer of mineral prospecting rights and the
imposition of a 30 percent “mineral foreign shareholding
withholding tax” on companies based in foreign  tax havens .  “Implementing higher taxation obligations without
conducting a comparative analysis of what applies in other
mining jurisdictions will have a detrimental impact on the South
African industry’s international competitiveness,” the chamber
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  