-- Southern, Ted Turner Buy Second Southwest U.S. Solar-Power Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-29T19:17:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/southern-ted-turner-buy-second-southwest-u-s-solar-power-plant.html
Southern Co., the largest U.S. power
company by market value, bought its second solar energy project
in partnership with Turner Renewable Energy.  The companies, which have been collaborating on renewable
energy investments since January 2010, purchased the 20-megawatt
Apex project in North Las Vegas, Nevada, from SunEdison LLC,
Southern said today in a statement. The purchase price wasn’t
disclosed.  Turner Renewable Energy is a unit of Turner Enterprises
Inc., a closely held company based in Atlanta that manages the
investments and land holdings of  Ted Turner , including more than
2 million acres in the U.S. and Argentina.  The acquisition is Southern’s second investment in solar
power and follows other deals the company has made related to
biomass power generation and carbon-capture and storage. The
company, which owns utilities in four states and serves 4.4
million customers, is building a 100-megawatt biomass power
plant in Texas.  The project is the second to be acquired by Southern and
Turner Renewable Energy, after the companies in March 2010
bought the 30-megawatt Cimarron project that  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) 
built on land adjacent to Turner’s Vermejo Park Ranch near
Raton, New Mexico.  MEMC Electronic Materials Inc. (WFR) ’s SunEdison began building
the plant in October, and utility  NV Energy Inc. (NVE)  will buy its
output for 25 years starting in the third quarter.  Apex will consist of 88,000 poly-crystalline solar panels
provided by Chinese manufacturer  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , Southern,
based in Atlanta, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in San Francisco at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  