-- Spain, Italy Bondholders May Still Trail in Writedown Seniority
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-06-29T12:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/spain-italy-bondholders-may-still-trail-in-writedown-seniority.html
Spanish and Italian bond holders may
find themselves in the same place in the queue to take losses in
a writedown of government debt even after European leaders
renounced the preferred status of their bailout fund.  Chiefs of the 17 euro countries said after a summit today
that the European Stability Mechanism will be able to
recapitalize banks directly, rather than via governments, which
will avoid increasing the public debt. Loans to  Spain , which is
to receive as much as 100 billion euros ($126 billion) for its
banks, will be made through the temporary bailout fund and, when
it becomes available, transferred to the ESM “without gaining
seniority status,” the leaders said.  “Seniority is still with the ESM, just not for Spain’s
bailout,” said  Stuart Thomson , who helps oversee about $115
billion as a  money manager  at Ignis Asset Management in Glasgow.
“Spain still has too much debt and nothing has changed to take
Spain out of debtor’s prison. It’s a clever compromise.”  Spanish and Italian bond yields have surged over the past
three months as Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  was forced
to abandon his attempt to recapitalize banks without outside
help as the country’s descent into recession obliged lenders to
own up to spiraling losses. Pressure on those nations’ borrowing
costs has stoked concern the currency union will break up and
throw the world economy into recession.  Biggest Slide  Two-year Spanish  yields  fell as much as 97 basis points
today to 4.45 percent, the biggest one-day slide since Aug. 8
when the  European Central Bank  started buying Italian and
Spanish bonds to help cap their borrowing costs.  Italy’s  two-year yield  declined 51 basis points to 3.79
percent at 1:13 p.m. in  London , after sliding as much as 81
basis points. The  extra yield  investors demand to hold the
securities instead of German bunds shrank 55 basis points to 365
basis points.  The ESM  treaty  provides it with preferred-creditor status,
junior only to the  International Monetary Fund . The European
Financial Stability Facility, which is scheduled to be replaced
by the ESM this year, isn’t explicitly a preferred creditor.  Even so, what happened in  Greece  showed that official
lenders aren’t willing to accept losses, preferring to force
private bondholders to take greater writedowns. When the nation
restructured this year, private investors were forced to write
off more than 100 billion euros, or 53.5 percent of the face
value of their investment, while official lenders -- the ECB and
the  European Investment Bank  -- took no losses at all. As with
the IMF, neither entity is formally a preferred creditor.  Words, Actions  “It’s not the words that make debt preferred, it’s the
action,” said Pavan Wadhwa, global head of interest-rate
strategy at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in London. “What makes bonds
senior is the perception that when things go wrong and there’s a
debt restructuring, the official sector will be given preferred
status. The whole question about the ESM’s seniority and it
saying that the ESM is now not senior any more is meaningless.”  Even if the authorities have given up seniority only as far
as the Spanish bank bailout is concerned, it does help bolster
investor sentiment, said  Patrick Armstrong , who helps oversee
$350 million at Armstrong Investment Managers LLP in London.  “Insofar as they are investing alongside you and they are
protecting themselves, they are protecting you, too,” he said.
“It’s useful. You’d really rather have someone taking the pain
with you than not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  