-- Spanish, Italian Notes Gain as EU Leaders Move to Contain Crisis
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-30T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/spanish-italian-bonds-surge-as-eu-eases-rules-on-loans-to-spain.html
Spanish and Italian notes rose for a
second week as euro-area leaders expanded steps to stem the debt
crisis by easing repayment rules for emergency loans to  Spain ’s
banks and relaxing conditions on potential help for  Italy .  The Italian  two-year yield  dropped to the lowest in a month
after leaders of the euro nations also scrapped the requirement
that governments get preferred-creditor status on crisis loans
to the country’s banks. German 30-year bunds dropped for a
fourth week as optimism the financial turmoil will be contained
reduced demand for the region’s safest assets. Spanish and
Italian bonds still made quarterly losses.  “Market expectations from the summit were low but the fact
that we have some concrete plans is positive,”  Padhraic Garvey ,
head of developed debt markets at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.
“The deal on non-seniority for Spanish bailout loans is also a
nod in the right direction.”  Italy’s two-year yield fell 30 basis points, or 0.3
percentage point, this week to 3.50 percent at 5 p.m. London
time. The 3 percent note due in April 2014 gained 0.5, or 5
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,266) face amount, to 99.21. The yield
dropped to 3.45 percent yesterday, the lowest since May 25.  Spanish  two-year yields  declined 16 basis points this week
to 4.27 percent. Italian 10-year yields were little changed at
5.82 percent, while similar-maturity Spanish yields fell five
basis points to 6.33 percent.  The accord among the European Union leaders paves the way
for the European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, to augment
its proposals on  deposit insurance ,  capital requirements  and how
to handle failing banks. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
after the summit that she maintained her rejection of issuing
joint bonds.  ‘Key Positive’  “The key positive thing here is that we see some traction
despite Germany digging its heels in on using bailout funds to
support the market,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior fixed-
income strategist at Rabobank International in London.  Germany’s 30-year bund yield jumped eight basis points this
week to 2.33 percent after rising to 2.45 percent, the highest
level since April 26. Benchmark 10-year bunds were little
changed, leaving the yield at 1.58 percent.  Spain will sell bonds maturing between 2015 and 2022 on
July 5, while Germany,  France  and the Netherlands also auction
bonds next week.  Spanish bonds handed investors a loss of 7.4 percent this
quarter as of June 28, while Italian debt dropped 4.6 percent,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bonds
returned 2.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in  London  at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  