-- Sparx Surges on Winning Local Government Mandate: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   K o m a k i   I t o
-- 2012-06-29T06:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/sparx-surges-on-winning-local-government-mandate-tokyo-mover.html
Sparx Group Co. (8739) , a Japanese asset
manager, had its biggest gain in almost two years in Tokyo
trading, after winning a contract from the  Tokyo Metropolitan
Government  to start an infrastructure fund that will invest in
the nation’s renewable energy industry.  Sparx jumped 18 percent to 6,680 yen at the close of
trading on the Jasdaq stock exchange. The stock surged by the
daily  exchange-imposed limit , and completed its  biggest gain 
since July 22, 2010. The stock is up 25 percent this year, more
than three times the 7 percent gain in the Jasdaq index.  The mandate by the Tokyo government comes as Chief
Executive Officer Shuhei Abe tries to bring his company back to
 profitability  by widening its offerings beyond equity-related
products. Sparx has been running a fund that invests in
companies in the smart-grid and renewable-energy technology
industries amid Japan’s efforts to cut dependence on atomic
energy that provided about 30 percent of the nation’s power
before the Fukushima nuclear meltdown in March 2011.  “Sparx is one of the few asset managers that have the
expertise in the area, so the  Tokyo  government must have chosen
them for that experience,” said Yugo Nakamura, an analyst for
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in Tokyo.  Japan’s First  The Tokyo government  sought  companies able to manage a
public-private infrastructure fund dedicated to investing in the
country’s power-supply business, the nation’s first such fund,
according to Abe. Sparx’s infrastructure fund will start with
initial capital of 1.5 billion yen ($19 million) from the
government as early as October and will expand to about 20
billion yen, Abe said.  Sparx’s existing smart-grid fund, with more than 20 billion
yen in assets, has declined 4.2 percent since July 2010 through
the end of May, outperforming the 14 percent drop by the
benchmark  Topix index  in the same period, according to the
company.  The new infrastructure fund will mainly invest in projects
including mega-solar and wind-power plants in  Japan , and may
also invest as much as 15 percent of assets in shares of smart-
grid technology companies, Abe said. It will target an annual
return of 6 percent to 8 percent, while it will last about 15
years, he said. Sparx plans to raise capital for the fund from
domestic and overseas pensions, individual investors as well as
sovereign wealth funds around the world, Abe said.  Feed-in-Tariff Introduction  The Tokyo city fund will focus on the Tokyo metropolitan
area for investments, while it will seek opportunities across
Japan as well in alternative energy providers such as those in
the solar-power industry and wind-power generators, Abe said.  Sparx posted a net loss of 4.54 billion yen for last fiscal
year, compared with a 3.7 billion yen loss a year earlier, even
after it cut salaries and relocated to less expensive offices in
Tokyo.  The so-called feed-in-tariff will be introduced on July 1
after Japan’s government in April recommended solar power
providers earn 42 yen a kilowatt-hour for the electricity they
produce, three times the 13.65 yen charged to industrial and
commercial users. The preferential rate for commercial and
utility-scale solar power lasts for 20 years.  To replace one nuclear plant in Japan, about 2 trillion yen
of capital is needed, according to Abe. All of Japan’s 50
reactors were taken offline for safety checks after the
meltdowns at Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi reactors last year, with
only two near the western city of  Osaka  given permission to
resume operations since.  “This is going to be a big push for the expansion of our
fund business,” Abe said. “The renewable  energy industry  is
lacking capital it needs to contribute to securing sustainable
energy in Japan and we want to be the initial risk taker in
providing the financing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Komaki Ito in Tokyo at 
 kito@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net . 