-- Sprint Termination-Fee Settlement Rejected on Appeal
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-29T21:08:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/sprint-accord-on-termination-fees-vacated-on-appeal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) ’s $17.5 million
settlement over early termination fees was vacated by a U.S.
appeals court that said the agreement didn’t adequately protect
class members who didn’t sue.  Five Sprint customers sued in November 2007 alleging that
flat-rate early termination fees, or ETFs, of as much as $200
charged by the mobile-phone company were illegal and violated
state consumer-protection laws.  The parties reached a settlement in December 2008, and a
trial judge approved the accord in January 2010 after overruling
objections from several class members. The lower court erred in
its decision, a three-member panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals
in Philadelphia said in a ruling today.  “With full appreciation for the considerable efforts that
have been invested in the settlement of this class action, we
emphasize again the judicial duty to act as the guardian of
absent class members,” the panel said in its opinion.  The wireless industry has come under increased regulatory
scrutiny over fees and contract terms. A survey released by the
Federal Communications Commission in 2010 found that one in six
customers faced unexpected fees and is unaware of the costs to
switch carriers. Sprint, the third-largest U.S. wireless
carrier, last year raised its ETF for smartphones to $350 after
similar increases by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)   Sprint Settlement  Under the settlement reached in 2008, Sprint agreed to pay
$14 million in cash and $3.5 million in activation-fee waivers,
bonus minutes and credit forgiveness. The company also agreed
not to include flat-rate ETFs in new fixed-term subscriber
agreements for two years, starting Jan. 1, 2009.  Objectors argued that the settlement terms were weak and
the plaintiff representatives were inadequate, as none of them
were current subscribers subject to the illegal ETFs at the time
the agreement was executed, the appeals panel said.  “Although we remand to the district court to further
address the notice issues, we also suggest that the court
consider again whether the class representatives can adequately
represent all class members,” the panel said.  “Sprint is reviewing the opinion at this time to consider
appropriate next steps and we are not commenting beyond that,”
Stephanie Vinge Walsh, a spokeswoman for  Overland Park , Kansas-
based Sprint, said in an e-mailed statement.  The case is Larson v. AT&T Mobility LLC, 10-1285,  U.S.
Court of Appeals  for the Third Circuit (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  