-- States Given More Time to Seek U.S. Funds for Health Exchanges
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-06-29T19:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/states-given-more-time-to-seek-u-s-funds-for-health-exchanges.html
States will get more chances to
apply for U.S. aid to set up the online insurance exchanges
included in health-care overhaul, and most will comply with the
2010 law, an Obama administration official said.  The  Department of Health  and Human Services  extended 
today’s application deadline to Oct. 15, 2014, for a program
that’s already given $850 million to 34 states and  Washington ,
D.C. for the exchanges, where consumers can compare and buy
medical plans. The administration may get as many as 10 more
applications, said Mike Hash, interim director of the Center for
Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight, on a call today.  The  Supreme Court  yesterday upheld the bulk of President
 Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, letting his administration
proceed with the health law’s goal of extending coverage to 30
million uninsured people. HHS is ramping up its assistance so
every state meets the law’s core provisions by 2014.  “What we can’t afford to do is spend time fighting any
more political battles,” Health and Human Services Secretary
 Kathleen Sebelius  said on the call.  Small businesses and 26 states had challenged the law’s
requirements that all Americans have insurance and that states
expand Medicaid, the government-subsidized health plans for the
poor and disabled. The Supreme Court upheld the law with the
caveat that the federal government can’t threaten to withhold
existing Medicaid funds from states that don’t fully comply.  Due Dates  Hash said most states will comply with the Medicaid
changes. About half of Obama’s health law’s insurance expansion
would be covered by broadening Medicaid eligibility, while the
rest would have people use tax credits to help buy coverage from
private insurers through exchanges being set in each state.  Exchanges are meant to be one-stop shops where consumers
can compare coverage information. The agency added 10
application due dates to the calendar for the grant program.  Twenty-seven states are actively building exchanges,
according to  Menlo Park , California-based nonprofit  Kaiser
Family Foundation . The remaining states had either never started
them or had stopped work while waiting to see whether the
Supreme Court would strike down the health law. The federal
government will build exchanges in states that don’t comply.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  