-- State Farm, Farmers Among Insurers Hit by Colorado Fire
-- B y   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-06-30T00:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/state-farm-zurich-among-insurers-hit-by-colorado-fire.html
Farmers Insurance and State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. are among companies facing
losses from a  Colorado  wildfire that has already destroyed 346
houses and consumed 29 square miles.  The Waldo Canyon fire near  Colorado Springs , which began
June 23, has left at least two people dead and forced more than
34,000 evacuees to seek shelter, officials said. Record-breaking
heat, drought and high winds coupled with the fire’s proximity
to residences in Colorado’s second-largest city have made both
homeowners and insurers vulnerable to costlier damage.  “It went from a forest fire to a city fire,” Carole
Walker,  executive director  at the Rocky Mountain Insurance
Information Association, said today in a telephone interview.
“Now, this recipe for disaster is playing itself out.”  Policyholder-owned State Farm, the biggest U.S. home and
car insurer that leads in market share in Colorado, has received
75 claims from the Waldo Canyon fire and expects that number to
rise, said Angela Thorpe, a spokeswoman for the Bloomington,
Illinois-based firm. Farmers, which has a management
relationship with Switzerland’s Zurich Insurance Group AG and
the state’s second-largest share, has received 665 fire-related
claims, according to Jerry Davies, a spokesman for the Los
Angeles-based insurer.  Smoke and ash damage to homes and vehicles has the
potential to cause additional losses, Walker said. She was
unable to estimate losses because she and many insurers haven’t
yet been given access to the area.  Still Threatened  More than 20,000 homes and 160 businesses remain threatened
from the Waldo Canyon fire, and the cost for battling the blaze
so far is $5.2 million, according to the  Incident Information
System , a multiagency coordinating group.  President  Barack Obama  toured Colorado Springs today and
said he was stunned at the fire’s devastation. “We’ve still got
a ways to go” before the flames are out, he told reporters.
“We need a little help from Mother Nature.”  The origin of the blaze is under investigation. Drought and
winds have fueled fires across the western U.S., including
Idaho,  Montana  and  New Mexico . In Colorado, at least nine fires
have charred about 240 square miles, fire officials said.  Homeowners insurance covers the cost of rebuilding a house
if it’s damaged or destroyed by fire, according to the  Insurance
Information Institute . Reimbursement for personal property loss
is typically 50 percent to 70 percent of the amount of coverage
on the structure, the institute said. Hotel bills, meals and
other living expenses are also covered if the house is
uninhabitable.  Last year, catastrophic wildfires caused $855 million in
insured losses and $1.9 billion in total economic losses,
according to  Munich Re , the world’s biggest reinsurer. Among the
costliest U.S. wildfires were those that swept California in
October 2007, which caused more than $2 billion in insured
losses, according to the state’s insurance regulator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Norton in  New York  at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  