-- Stockton Threatens to Bbe First City to Stiff Bondholders
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-06-30T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/stockton-threatens-to-be-first-city-to-stiff-bondholders.html
History may be against Stockton,
 California , which this week became the biggest city to file
bankruptcy in the U.S., saying it may try to impose losses on
lenders.  Since at least 1981, and possibly as far back as the 1930s,
no U.S. municipality has used bankruptcy to force bondholders to
take less than the full principal due, according to experts and
court records.  Before the June 28 court filing, Stockton officials said
they will try to impose cuts on all creditors, not just
employees.  “We’re trying to spread the pain, unfortunately, to others
besides employees,” City Manager Bob Deis told City Council
members at a June 26 hearing.  The municipal  bond market  will be watching to see if that
goal is met, said Jim Spiotto, a bankruptcy attorney with
Chapman and Cutler LLP who helped write a book about
municipalities in financial distress.  “That’s what everybody is going to be watching,” Spiotto
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “What’s the stigma for
it? What’s the price? Do you trade a short term gain for a long
term pain?”  Of the 43 municipal bankruptcies filed since 1981, 33 were
either dismissed by a judge, or failed to win a court ruling
discharging their debt. Court records for the remaining 10 did
not list the disposition. Spiotto said none of those cases ended
with a cut to the principal owed lenders.  Suffer Consequences  “Whenever there’s a bankruptcy or default, there’s a
psychological twinge that goes through the issuer community and
the market,”  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman for California Treasurer
Bill Lockyer, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “If
other issuers, including the state, are stained as a result of
Stockton’s bankruptcy then potentially when we go to market we
suffer the consequences.”  During negotiations in the months leading up to the
bankruptcy, bondholders “were grossly unhappy with the city’s
proposal,” Joe Rose, an attorney for the city’s biggest labor
union, said in an interview. Rose was part of the negotiations,
which were required under a state law governing when cities can
file bankruptcy.  The  California City  of Vallejo, about 65 miles west of
Stockton, became the first municipality to use bankruptcy to cut
the interest rate paid to its lender, Union Bank NA, Spiotto
said.  Suspend Payments  Stockton listed assets of more than $1 billion and debt of
$500 million to $1 billion in court filings June 28 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in  Sacramento , California. The Chapter 9 filing
allows Stockton, a city of 292,000, to suspend payments to
creditors while it seeks court approval for a plan that balances
its revenue with its debt.  The two biggest creditors named in the filing reflect the
groups most likely to face cuts imposed as part of the
bankruptcy: bondholders and city employees.  Stockton said its biggest unsecured creditor is the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, the
largest U.S. pension fund, owed $147.5 million, followed by
 Wells Fargo (WFC)  Bank NA, as trustee for $124.3 million in pension
obligation bonds, and Wells Fargo as trustee for three other
sets of bondholders owed $107 million, according to court
papers.  Wells Fargo “expects to take an active role in the
bankruptcy proceedings,”  Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for the
San Francisco-based bank said in an e-mail the day Stockton
filed bankruptcy.  The bank didn’t lend the city any money, she said. “All
our efforts in the bankruptcy proceedings will be directed
toward achieving a recovery for the holders of Stockton bonds,”
she said.  Jefferson County  Stockton is the biggest city to file bankruptcy, by
population. The biggest of all municipal bankruptcies, by debt,
was filed by Jefferson County,  Alabama , last year.  Jefferson County owes creditors about $4.2 billion,
according to court records, and like Stockton it is trying to
force bondholders to take less.  Unlike Stockton, Jefferson County’s bonds are tainted by
political corruption. In 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  agreed to a
$722 million settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission over payments its bankers allegedly made to people
tied to county politicians to win business.  Cities have avoided trying to force investors to take a
loss in court, or out, because the bond market would punish any
future borrowings with higher  interest rates , or possibly by
locking them out entirely, said  Richard Ciccarone , Chief
Research Officer at McDonnell Investment Management LLC in  Oak
Brook ,  Illinois , said in an interview yesterday.  Housing Crisis  Since the financial and housing crisis, the number of
municipalities filing bankruptcy has increased. Eleven of the 43
to file since 1981 came after 2008.  Spiotto and Ciccarone said they cannot identify any large
municipalities that haven’t fully repaid principal since the
Great Depression in the 1930s. In that era, about 4,000
municipalities defaulted, with about 40 of those not fully
repaying the debt.  The collapse of the housing market left Stockton to contend
with mounting retiree health-care costs and an eroding tax base
in the wake of the recession, amid accounting errors that
overstated municipal revenues.  Negotiations with creditors began on March 27 and were
extended to June 25. The California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, the largest U.S. pension fund, and San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo & Co., the nation’s biggest home lender, and bond
insurer  Assured Guaranty (AGO)  were among at least 18 creditors
involved in the talks.  The case is In re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court 
for the Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  Following is a list of municipal bankruptcy filings since 1988  Source: Public Access to Court Electronic Records, the system
used by federal courts to file and view court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 