-- Stockton, California, Seeks Bankruptcy After Talks Fail
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h   a n d   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n
-- 2012-06-29T21:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/stockton-california-files-for-bankruptcy-protection.html
Stockton, California filed
bankruptcy after talks with bondholders and labor unions failed,
making the agricultural center the biggest U.S. city to seek
court protection from creditors.  The city of 292,000 listed assets of more than $1 billion
and debt of $500 million to $1 billion in court filings
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Sacramento , California.
The two biggest creditors named in the filing reflect the groups
most likely to face cuts imposed as part of the bankruptcy:
bondholders and city employees.  Stockton said its biggest unsecured creditor is the
 California Public Employees’ Retirement System , or Calpers, ,
the largest U.S. pension fund, owed $147.5 million, followed by
Wells Fargo Bank NA, as trustee for $124.3 million in pension
obligation bonds, and Wells Fargo as trustee for three other
sets of bondholders owed $107 million, according to court
papers.  “We are extremely disappointed that we have been unable to
avoid bankruptcy,” Mayor Ann Johnston said in a statement.
“This is what we must do to get our fiscal house in order and
protect the safety and welfare of our citizens. We will emerge
from bankruptcy with a solid financial future.”  The Chapter 9 filing allows the city to suspend payments to
creditors while it seeks court approval for a plan that balances
its revenue with its debt. The budget for the fiscal year
beginning July 1 calls for defaulting on $10.2 million in debt
payments and cutting $11.2 million in employee pay and benefits
under union contracts that could be voided by the  bankruptcy
court .  “Citizens will not see any changes in service after July
1” the city said in a statement yesterday, referring to the
date that a new budget will be in place.  Union Vote  A river port about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of  San
Francisco , Stockton ran out of options after three months of
negotiations with creditors ended June 25 without enough
concessions to close a $26 million deficit.  The city’s biggest union, the Stockton City Employees
Association, voted yesterday to accept a new, one-year labor
agreement that city officials proposed during the negotiations,
association lawyer Joe Rose said yesterday in a phone interview.
Rose declined to provide details about the offer, citing the
confidentiality of the talks.  “Obviously, we are not going to be looking for any
increases,” he said. “It’s all varying degrees of take-
aways.”  The negotiations, which were required under California law
before Stockton could file bankruptcy, helped both sides
prepare, Rose said. That may make it easier to reach a deal in
court, he said.  Contract Change  During the talks, the city established a secure website
that included a large amount of financial data, Rose said. That
information was used by the union’s financial adviser to assess
the city’s fiscal situation.  The union, which represents workers other than police
officers or firefighters, had its contract unilaterally changed
by city officials, Rose said. The union is challenging that
action, he said.  If a judge concludes the city violated state labor laws,
the employees may have the right to a bankruptcy claim worth
about $12 million, Rose said. The city would probably contest
that claim, he said.  Wells Fargo (WFC)  & Co. is acting on behalf of bondholders and
not itself, said  Elise Wilkinson , a spokeswoman for the San
Francisco-based bank. The bank didn’t lend the city any money,
she said in an e-mail.  The bank “expects to take an active role in the bankruptcy
proceedings,” Wilkinson said. Stockton’s bondholders include
individuals and institutions, such as mutual funds, pension
funds and retirement accounts, she said.  Bank’s Efforts  “All our efforts in the bankruptcy proceedings will be
directed toward achieving a recovery for the holders of Stockton
bonds,” she said.  Cities like Stockton have the ability to amend their
contract to change some benefits for future employees subject to
collective bargaining rules,  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for
Calpers, said in an e-mail.  Municipal bankruptcies in the U.S., while still rare
compared with corporate filings, became more common after the
housing and financial crisis began. Ten of 42 cases filed since
1981 came in the past four years, according to court records.  The biggest municipal bankruptcy was filed last year by
Jefferson County,  Alabama , which is trying to restructure $4.2
billion in debt, most of which is tied to sewer bond deals
tainted by corruption.  Stockton’s bankruptcy will probably resemble the 2008 case
of another California city, Vallejo, which exited court
protection last year, Sacramento bankruptcy attorney Dale Ginter
said. Both have been hurt by high labor costs, particularly
health insurance for retirees, he said.  Retiree Health Care  “Retirees are not going to be happy,” said Ginter, who
represented retired Vallejo workers in that city’s bankruptcy.
“My prediction is that retiree health care is cut. I wouldn’t
be surprised to see it cut to zero.”  Bondholders and current employees will probably also have
to take less, said Ginter, who has reviewed city financial
reports.  Stockton is the biggest city, by population, to file
Chapter 9, according to Jim Spiotto, a bankruptcy attorney with
Chapman and Cutler LLP who helped write a book about
municipalities in financial distress. He identified the other
major municipalities that have filed for bankruptcy as the  San
Jose  School District, which sought court protection in 1983;
Bridgeport,  Connecticut , which filed in 1991; Orange County,
 California , filing in 1994; and Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , and
Jefferson County, both of which filed last year. Vallejo sought
court protection in 2008.  San Jose, Bridgeport, and Harrisburg all had their cases
dismissed before they were able to enact plans to adjust their
debt.  Creditor Talks  “We’ve worked really hard with our creditors and we’ve
been unable to close the gap,” City Manager Bob Deis told the
Stockton City Council on June 26. “If we get any agreements in
the near future, then those will be honored in Chapter 9,” he
said, referring to the federal bankruptcy code section under
which municipalities and cities seek court protection.  Bankruptcy allows the city to break contracts with
creditors without the threat of lawsuits, though it won’t assure
the city’s recovery, he said.  Dale Fritchen, the only one of seven council members to
vote against the plan, said he wasn’t convinced there was no
alternative.  “I think it’s going to hurt Stockton more than it will
help Stockton,” Fritchen said June 26.  Financial Review  In February, the city began a process during which it is
required by state law to review its finances with help from a
“neutral observer” who is picked in cooperation with
creditors. That review is similar to a mediation process in
which creditors have a right to participate, according to the
law, passed last year at the request of California labor unions.  Salaries for current workers and benefits for them and
former employees account for about 68 percent of the city’s
general fund, the city said.  Stockton had the third-highest number of murders among
California cities with a population of more than 100,000 people
in 2011 with 58, behind  Los Angeles  with 297 and Oakland with
104, according to FBI data.  ‘Crisis Level’  The city has cut services so much during the past two years
that “public safety is at a crisis level,” officials said in a
June 5 fiscal report. Unemployment, at 15.4 percent in April,
was almost double the national average according to the U.S.
Department of Labor.  The collapse of the housing market left Stockton to contend
with mounting retiree health-care costs and eroding tax dollars
in the wake of the recession, amid accounting errors that
overstated municipal revenues.  Negotiations with creditors began on March 27 and were
extended to June 25. Calpers and Wells Fargo, the nation’s
biggest home lender, and bond insurer  Assured Guaranty (AGO)  were
among at least 18 creditors involved in the talks.  The case is In Re Stockton, 12-32118, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, Eastern District of California (Sacramento).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net ;
Alison Vekshin in San Francisco at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  