-- Sual Billionaires Said to Push for Rusal Veto During Dispute
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a
-- 2012-06-29T12:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/sual-billionaires-said-to-push-for-rusal-veto-during-dispute-1-.html
Len Blavatnik and Viktor Vekselberg
are seeking veto power over major transactions at United Co.
Rusal, escalating a feud with fellow billionaire  Oleg Deripaska 
over strategy at the world’s largest aluminum maker, two people
familiar with the matter said.  Blavatnik and Vekselberg’s Sual Partners Ltd., which owns
15.8 percent of Rusal, are asking all shareholders to vote on
amending the Russian company’s charter to reflect the veto power
that exists in a shareholder accord signed in 2007 when Rusal
was formed, the people said, declining to be identified because
the information isn’t public.  Vekselberg quit as chairman of Rusal in March, citing a
“deep crisis” at the company after Deripaska rejected several
offers to sell Rusal’s 25 percent stake in OAO GMK  Norilsk
Nickel , the world’s largest miner of the metal. Deripaska said
at the time that there is “not even a shallow crisis at
Rusal,” while the market situation is difficult.  Rusal’s board has already recommended rejecting Sual’s
proposal on changing the company’s charter, which would need the
approval of 75 percent of shareholders to pass. Deripaska’s En+
Group controls 47 percent of Rusal, billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov ’s Onexim Group has 17 percent and Glencore
International Plc has 8.8 percent.  Bolster Case  Shareholders will meet Aug. 3 to vote on the Sual proposal,
Rusal said. Passing the amendments would violate the rules of
the Hong Kong stock exchange, where the company’s shares are
listed, Rusal  said  in a regulatory filing. Both Rusal and Sual
officials declined to comment or be identified.  Sual may use the rejection to bolster a case it filed
against En+ and Glencore in  London , or it could use the rebuff
as a trigger to abandon other agreements it has with Deripaska,
such as the right of first refusal in selling its stake, said
Dmitry Lobachyov, a lawyer at Moscow-based Yukov, Khrekhov &
Partners, who isn’t involved in the case.  Sual in April filed a claim in London against En+ Group,
Rusal and Swiss commodities trader  Glencore (GLEN) , accusing them of
breaching shareholder accords by signing long-term contracts
without its consent.  Deripaska’s En+ will have a right to vote, Andrey
Goltsblat, managing partner of Goltsblat Berwin Leighton
Paisner, said by phone from Moscow. Changes to a charter are not
financial transactions, and no “interested party” issue arises
to exclude major shareholders from the voting, he said.  The amendment isn’t good for minority shareholders because
it will put too much power in the hands of the battling majority
shareholders, said Kirill Chuyko, an analyst at UBS AG in
Moscow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  