-- Suez Environnement Slumps After Warning on Profit: Paris Mover
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-06-29T09:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/suez-environnement-slumps-after-warning-on-profit-paris-mover.html
Suez Environnement,  Europe ’s second-
biggest water utility,  plunged  to a record low after saying
profit will be crimped by an “uncertain” economic outlook as
an Australian contract faces delays and cost overruns.  Suez Environnement fell as much as 11 percent to 8.13
euros, the lowest since the shares first started trading in
2008. The shares were at 8.56 euros as of 11:30 a.m. in Paris.
 Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  slid as much as 4.7 percent.  Sales and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will be flat in 2012, the Paris-based utility said
yesterday in a statement. That compared with a previous target
that they would match or beat 2011 levels.  The utility also announced further provisions for the
construction of a desalination plant in  Melbourne  and reduced
the market value of its stake in Italian utility Acea SpA.  The warning was Suez Environnement’s second this year after
the utility reduced its earnings target for 2012 in February
amid “lackluster” economic growth and a 43 percent drop in
full-year profit. The utility, which is 34 percent-owned by  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA, will take a charge of 85 million euros ($107 million)
for an Australian desalination plant, the second provision on
the order since October.  Suez Environnement had anticipated this year and next would
be growth years after struggling, like larger rival Veolia, to
boost industrial waste sorting following the 2009 recession that
shut factories.  The utility said it would raise a cost-savings target by 40
million euros this year and lower net investment by 100 million
euros.  “The downward trend observed in waste activities in the
first quarter in Europe has accelerated in the second,” Suez
Environnement said. Waste volumes in Europe were down 4 percent
at the end of May compared with last year, with a “stronger
deterioration” in the U.K. and the Netherlands.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  