-- Swiss Franc Falls to Five-Week Low Versus Euro After EU Accord
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-06-29T15:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/swiss-franc-falls-to-five-week-low-versus-euro-after-eu-accord.html
The Swiss franc fell to a five-week
low against the euro as speculation European Union leaders are
moving closer to containing the region’s debt crisis damped
demand for the currency as a haven.  The franc headed for a weekly loss against the 17-nation
currency after euro-area chiefs meeting in Brussels eased
repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish banks and relaxed
conditions on potential help for  Italy . The franc strengthened
versus the dollar, snapping a four-day decline, after an index
of Swiss  leading economic indicators  improved in June.  “We’re seeing quite a spike in euro-franc in the wake of
this summit outcome,” said  Daragh Maher , a currency strategist
at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London . “We’ve had a couple of examples
with euro-franc where the market has been caught wrong-footed
and has been squeezed higher. This spike today may simply be the
latest example.”  The franc declined 0.1 percent to 1.2016 per euro at 4:37
p.m. in London after falling to 1.20389, the weakest level since
May 24. The Swiss currency appreciated 1.7 percent to 94.84
centimes per dollar.  After more than 13 hours of talks ended early today, chiefs
of the euro countries also agreed that banks can also be
recapitalized directly with European bailout funds rather than
being channeled through governments.  The franc surged toward parity with the euro last year,
reaching 1.008 on Aug. 9, as turmoil in the 17-member region
boosted demand for the safety of the Swiss currency. The  Swiss
National Bank  placed a cap of 1.20 francs per euro in September
to protect exporters.  The KOF Swiss Economic Institute said its gauge of leading
indicators, which aims to predict the economy’s direction six
months ahead, climbed to 1.16 from a revised 0.8 in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  