-- U.K. Services Industry Stagnates in April as Retail Sales Plunge
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-06-29T08:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/u-k-services-industry-stagnates-in-april-as-retail-sales-plunge.html
Britain’s services companies
stagnated in April as retail sales plunged, underlining the
weakness of the economy at the start of the second quarter.  Services, which account for 77 percent of gross domestic
product, were unchanged following a 0.6 percent gain in March,
the  Office for National Statistics  said in London today. They
grew 2 percent from a year earlier, when activity was subdued by
the royal wedding.  The figures add to weak manufacturing and construction data
for April, suggesting the economy has gained little momentum
since the first quarter, when output shrank 0.3 percent. The
 Bank of England  is edging closer to resuming bond purchases as
threats from the euro-area debt crisis mount and the economy
struggles to shake off a recession.  In the three months through April, services were unchanged
following a 0.2 percent gain in the first quarter, the
statistics office said.  Distribution, hotels and restaurants posted a 0.8 percent
monthly decline in April as retail sales fell 2.4 percent and
sales and repairs of motor vehicles dropped 2.1 percent. This
offset a 0.4 percent gain in transport, storage and distribution.
Business services and finance as well as government services
posted gains of 0.1 percent.  In a separate release today, the statistics office said
output per worker fell 0.7 percent in the first quarter. It was
unchanged on the year.  Unit wage costs, or the amount spent on wages and salaries
to produce each unit of output, rose 0.4 percent on the quarter
and gained 2.1 percent on the year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  