-- Barclays, RBS Will Compensate Clients Mis-Sold Derivatives
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-06-29T17:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/u-k-banks-to-compensate-clients-improperly-sold-swaps-fsa-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc  and Britain’s two other biggest banks will compensate
small and medium-sized businesses improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives following a probe by the U.K. financial regulator.  The four lenders, including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , will also stop selling interest rate collars
to retail customers as part of a settlement with the Financial
Services Authority, the regulator said in a statement today.
While the FSA found “serious failings” by the banks dating
back to 2001, it stopped short of fining the firms.  The compensation plan is the second blow in a week to an
industry already under investigation for attempting to rig
global interest rates. Barclays was fined $451 million by the
FSA, the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission after admitting it submitted false Libor
rates to benefit derivatives trades, putting pressure on Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  to resign.  “Banks have clearly been involved in some poor business
practices prior to and during the credit crisis,” said Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital. “It’s possible
that not all of these practices have yet to be unearthed and it
is the threat of civil litigation that is the main risk” to
banks’ future share performance.  Not PPI  The FSA didn’t say how much the banks could have to spend
to compensate customers. Sixteen financial firms paid 1.9
billion pounds ($3 billion) in 2011 after the FSA found they
improperly sold clients payment-protection insurance. Hector Sants, the regulator’s chief executive officer, said in a speech
last year that customers may receive as much as 9 billion pounds
as a result of the PPI probe.  The swaps case is “not PPI two,” Deutsche Bank AG
analysts Jason Napier and David Lock said in a report today.
“We don’t expect this issue to produce costs which threaten
bank solvency -- individually or in aggregate given the
surprisingly modest numbers of products sold.” The outcome “is
likely to be continued pressure on banks from a public policy
and regulatory perspective,” they said.  Banks offered derivatives to small business and individual
customers on concern that they might not be able to service
loans if floating rates rose.  Rates Fall  Products included caps, where customers paid a premium to
keep borrowing costs below a pre-defined maximum, swaps, where
customers locked in a fixed rate, and more complex combinations
of these products, among them collars, which kept payments
within a fixed range. When  interest rates  fell, the market value
of many swap and collar products plunged, leaving customers out
of pocket. The banks sold 28,000 of the products since 2001,
according to the FSA.  “We’re talking tens of thousands of customers
potentially,” Martin Wheatley, the FSA’s managing director of
its conduct unit, said in an interview.  The FSA decided that a compensation scheme, rather than
civil penalties against the banks, was the preferable way to
deal with the problem because it would get money to small
business faster, Wheatley said.  Exit Costlier  “These products were often recommended to customers with
no prior experience of derivatives together with documentation
that failed properly to identify the risks involved,” said Andy
McGregor, a banking litigation lawyer at Reynolds Porter
Chamberlain LLP in London. “The complex nature of some of the
swaps could lead to a customer being in a position where it
would cost more to exit the swap than to stay in.”  The four banks gave customers poor information on what it
would cost to exit the swaps deals and didn’t properly explain
the risks. They also offered hedging products that didn’t match
up to the underlying loans, the FSA said. Compensation could
include partial or full refunds of products, or cancellation or
replacing them, the regulator said.  Companies made around 605 complaints last year over banks’
bundling of  interest-rate swaps  with loans, FSA Chairman  Adair Turner  said in a letter to lawmakers last month. The London-
based watchdog initially didn’t see any “widespread, underlying
issues” with the practice and instructed firms to review their
sales systems, Turner said.  Barclays and Lloyds said in separate statements that they
cooperated with the FSA investigation. HSBC said it would “move
rapidly to redress the few remaining small business customers
with more complex interest rate products.’”  Effective Tool  “Risk management products such as interest rate swaps
remain an effective tool for businesses wishing to hedge their
exposure to interest rates,” Barclays said in an e-mailed
statement. “Where we have made mistakes in the way we have
provided these for clients we are committed to resolving them.”  RBS said it has “agreed to move directly” to redress “a
small number of less sophisticated customers who entered into
more complex swap products.” Risk-management products are “an
essential part of corporate banking,” the bank said in an e-
mailed statement.  Lloyds said in a statement it didn’t expect the costs of
the settlement to be material.  While the FSA had gotten complaints about the products
before, it wasn’t until this year that the regulator started to
take action, Wheatley said.  “The wave started to build up in February, March this
year, when we started to hear many many more issues and when we
started going talking to the customers,” he said. “We found we
were getting very common themes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in Brussels at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  