-- Consumer Spending in U.S. Stalls as Hiring Weakens
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-06-29T20:35:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/u-s-consumer-spending-unchanged-in-may-weakest-in-six-months.html
Consumer spending stalled in May as
stagnant wages and slackening employment held back the biggest
part of the  U.S. economy .  Purchases were little changed after a 0.1 percent rise the
prior month that was smaller than initially reported, according
to Commerce Department figures issued today in Washington.
Another report showed household sentiment dropped this month to
the lowest level of the year.  A lack of jobs may prompt Americans to keep focusing on
replenishing depleted nest eggs, hurting sales at retailers from
 CarMax Inc. (KMX)  to  Red Robin Gourmet Burgers Inc. (RRGB)  Economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Morgan Stanley were among those
cutting forecasts after the figures, indicating the economy
slowed further in the second quarter.  The data are “consistent with a weakening growth
backdrop,” said Neil Dutta, head of U.S. economics at
Renaissance Macro Research LLC in  New York . “There’s still this
propensity for consumers to boost their rate of savings, which
is what you’d expect in an environment where they are very
skeptical about the outlook for the labor market.”  Stocks jumped, joining a global rally, after European
leaders reached an agreement that eased concern banks will fail.
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 2.5 percent to 1,362.16
at the 4 p.m. close in New York, capping the biggest June
advance since 1999.  Treasury securities  fell, sending the yield
on the benchmark 10-year note up to 1.64 percent from 1.58
percent late yesterday.  European Inflation  Elsewhere today, European inflation held steady in June as
the sovereign-debt crisis deepened an economic slump in the
euro-area economy.  The median estimate of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for no change in  consumer spending , which accounts
for about 70 percent of the economy. Projections ranged from
declines of 0.3 percent to increases of 0.3 percent. The
Commerce Department revised the April spending figure from a
previously reported 0.3 percent gain.  Economists at Goldman Sachs in New York trimmed their
tracking forecast for growth this quarter to a 1.6 percent
annual rate from 1.7 percent after the government reduced
estimates for spending in April and March. Morgan Stanley
analysts cut their projection to 1.7 percent from 1.9 percent.  The world’s largest economy grew at a 1.9 percent pace in
the first three months of the year after expanding at a 3
percent rate in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Sentiment Wanes  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan  final index  of
sentiment fell to 73.2 this month from 79.3 in May. The gauge
was projected to hold at the preliminary reading of 74.1,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The June decline was the first in 10 months. The index
averaged 64.2 during the last recession and 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Households with incomes above $75,000 paced the drop in
sentiment this month as they viewed the economy and their own
financial prospects less favorably.  Those results are in line the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort
Index issued yesterday, which showed confidence for those making
$100,000 or more turned negative last week for the first time in
three months. The gauge for all consumers climbed to the highest
level in two months, signaling the Michigan measure may stem the
slide in July.  The report on spending also showed  incomes  climbed 0.2
percent for a second month in May, matching the median
projection in the Bloomberg survey. Wages and salaries were
unchanged in May, the weakest performance in six months.  Little Income  “Consumers are struggling with a lack of income growth,
and the consequence is spending is suffering,” said  Ward McCarthy , chief financial economist at Jefferies & Co. in New
York, who forecast stagnant spending.  Cooling demand coincides with a weakening of the labor
market. Companies added 82,000 workers to payrolls last month,
the fewest since August. Next week, the Labor Department may
report private payrolls rose by about 100,000 in June,
completing the weakest quarter for the job market since January-
March 2010, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Consumers have had to rely on savings to boost spending as
income growth slowed. Today’s income report showed that may be
starting to reverse. The saving rate rose to 3.9 percent, a
four-month high, from 3.7 percent.  Facing Headwinds  “The casual dining industry started off strongly in
January, February and then hit some major headwinds,” Stephen Carley, chief executive officer of Red Robin Gourmet Burgers,
said during an investor conference on June 19. “That reflects
both  consumer confidence  being at risk and the fact that
discretionary income is down for consumers. Unemployment
continues to be a tremendous damper.”  Households may also be growing wary of buying big-ticket
items like vehicles. Cars and light trucks sold at a 13.7
million annual rate in May, the slowest this year and down from
April’s 14.4 million pace, Ward’s Automotive Group data show.  “The weak economy and high  unemployment rate  continues to
be a drag on the consumer,” Thomas Folliard, chief executive
officer at CarMax, a Richmond, Virginia-based used-vehicle
retailer, said on a conference call with analysts on June 21.  Fuel prices  on the decline may be a lone bright spot for
consumers. The cost of a gallon of gasoline at the pump has
fallen 57 cents to $3.37 after reaching a high in early April,
according to AAA, the largest U.S. auto group.  Growth Impediment  “The decline in gasoline prices, especially if it
continues, will provide some relief going forward, but income
growth is the impediment right now,” said McCarthy.  Another report today showed business activity unexpectedly
expanded in June at a faster pace as production rebounded.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business activity  barometer  increased to 52.9 from 52.7 in
May. A reading of 50 is the dividing line between growth and
contraction. Economists projected the purchasing managers’ gauge
would decline to 52.3, according to the median of 51  estimates 
in a Bloomberg survey.  Nonetheless, the report wasn’t all positive as bookings
slowed. The index of new orders dropped to 51.9, the lowest
since September 2009, from 52.9. The measure of backlogs slumped
to 42.2, also the weakest in almost three years.  “We don’t see any scope for a near-term significant pick-
up in manufacturing, but it’s not straight into the gutter
either,” said Sean Incremona, senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in
New York, who projected the Chicago index would rise. “It does
look like we can maintain a mild pace of growth in the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in  Washington  at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  