-- U.S. to Deploy Osprey Aircraft in Japan Amid Local Protests
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-06-29T08:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/u-s-to-deploy-osprey-aircraft-in-japan-amid-local-protests-1-.html
The U.S. said it will go ahead with
the deployment of 12 MV-22 Osprey aircraft to American bases in
 Japan  in the face of protests sparked by recent crashes.  The Ospreys, which can fly like an airplane or like a
helicopter, will be sent to the Marine air base in  Iwakuni  next
month, the Pentagon said in a statement today. Japan asked the
U.S. for information about a June crash of the aircraft in
 Florida  that injured five as well as a fatal crash in  Morocco  in
April, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said last week.  About 5,000 opponents of the deployment rallied in Okinawa
on June 17 and local assemblies in Iwakuni and the Okinawan city
of Ginowan have both passed resolutions against the deployment
this month.  The U.S. military “will refrain from any flight operations
of the MV-22 in Japan until the results of the investigations
are presented to the Japanese government and the safety of
flight operations is confirmed,” according to the Pentagon
statement. The aircraft will then be moved to Okinawa, site of
75 percent of the American bases in Japan. Another 12 Ospreys
are due to be sent to Okinawa next year.  Tensions from the U.S. military presence in Okinawa have
risen over an agreement to relocate a base from one part of the
island to another over objections from residents who complain
about noise, crime and pollution. The two countries reached a
deal in April to relocate about 9,000 Marines from Okinawa.  ‘Not Confident’  Japanese Defense Minister Satoshi Morimoto, a former
university professor known for his support of the U.S. alliance,
said today he would visit Iwakuni and Okinawa this weekend to
explain to local officials the deployment plan and provide
information the government has so far received about the two
crashes.  “I want to listen to local people’s opinions in a very
open way,” Morimoto told reporters in  Tokyo . “If you ask me
how sure I am that I can talk them around, my honest answer is
that I’m not confident.”  The Okinawa branch of the ruling  Democratic Party  earlier
this month called on Morimoto to resign after he said the Osprey
deployment could take place before Japan receives a U.S. report
on the Morocco crash. The mayor of the Okinawan capital of Naha
announced this week he is planning a larger rally.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  