-- Murdoch-Like Split Proves No Panacea: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-06-29T18:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/murdoch-like-split-no-panacea-at-belo-scripps-chart-of-the-day.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s proposal to divide
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s publishing and entertainment units into separate,
publicly traded companies is in keeping with past breakups in
the  media industry .  Belo Corp. (BLC)  split its newspaper and broadcast units in
February 2008. The Dallas Morning News and the company’s other
print units became A.H. Belo Corp., which was the corporate name
until the initials were dropped in 2001. Belo kept television
stations and cable-news channels.  Four months later, E.W. Scripps Co. followed Belo’s lead.
The company spun off Scripps Network Interactive Inc., which
owns the HGTV and Food Network cable channels as well as the
Travel Channel. E.W. Scripps kept papers and TV stations.  As the CHART OF THE DAY shows, the separations haven’t
always worked out well for stockholders. The chart compares the
share performance of the stand-alone companies and the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index since the breakups were completed. Each pair
of stocks appears in a separate panel.  A.H. Belo’s shares plunged 75 percent from the time of the
split through yesterday and Belo’s fell 52 percent. The losses
in shares of the Dallas-based companies far surpassed the  S&P
500 ’s 0.2 percent drop during the period.  Among the Scripps companies, E.W. Scripps trailed the S&P
500 by about 4.5 percentage points. Scripps Network Interactive
posted a 46 percent gain, beating the stock index’s 3.8 percent
advance. Both companies are based in Cincinnati.  Murdoch plans to be chairman of both companies carved out
of News Corp., based in New York. He would follow the lead of
 Sumner Redstone , chairman of CBS Corp. and Viacom Inc. since
they were split in 2005. Redstone’s New York-based companies
have beaten the S&P 500 since their breakup.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  