-- Turkcell Owners Including TeliaSonera Request Election Delay
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-06-29T12:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/turkcell-owners-including-teliasonera-request-election-delay-2-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ’s
main investors will ask for a deadline extension to elect
independent board members to  Turkey ’s biggest mobile operator
after it failed to convene a shareholders’ meeting.  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Altimo of  Russia  and Cukurova Holding AS
have agreed to ask the regulator for an extension until “legal
disputes between Altimo and Cukurova have ultimately been
resolved and the parties are no longer bound by their
shareholder agreement, which is expected towards the end of this
year,” Stockholm-based TeliaSonera said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Cukurova, Altimo, owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group , and TeliaSonera have been fighting a
three-cornered battle for control of Istanbul-based Turkcell for
almost a decade. While TeliaSonera is the largest shareholder
with 38 percent, Cukurova has sought to retain control via a
complex ownership structure even as its stake has declined to
13.8 percent.  TeliaSonera and Altimo blocked a decision on dividend
payments in a series of shareholders’ meetings in 2011, after
failing to oust Chairman  Colin Williams  from the board, claiming
he hampered Turkcell’s growth by favoring Cukurova chairman and
founder of Turkcell Mehmet Emin Karamehmet. Williams denied the
allegations.  Corporate Governance  Altimo and TeliaSonera said June 26 that the shareholders’
meeting due today would be postponed because Altimo and Cukurova
couldn’t agree on board structure, dividends and directorship
candidates. The meeting could not take place because there was
no quorum, TeliaSonera said today.  “The general assembly failed to take place due to
Cukurova’s failure to agree on the identity of a person to
represent Turkcell Holding - the controlling shareholder of
Turkcell - at the meeting,” the Moscow-based Altimo said in an
e-mailed statement today.  TeliaSonera will “do its utmost to make sure that Turkcell
dividends can be paid, the articles of association changed and
more independent board members elected, in line with the Capital
Markets Board’s requirements,” it said in the statement.  “Increasing the number of independent board members to
four out of 10 members would significantly improve  corporate
governance  in Turkcell,” Cecilia Edstrom, a TeliaSonera
spokeswoman, said in the statement. “However, this has been
consistently rejected by Cukurova, as it would undermine their
blocking position.”  Altimo, which owns 13.2 percent of Turkcell, is suing
Cukurova over an alleged loan default and seeking to seize its
Turkcell shares, which were pledged as collateral. That would
increase Altimo’s stake to 27 percent. The Privy Council in
 London  will make a final ruling on the case in December, Mustafa
Kiral, an Altimo executive, said June 26.  The Privy Council, whose verdicts are final, “has ordered
that neither Cukurova nor Alfa vote on any Turkcell matters
unless they are in agreement how to vote,” until the ruling,
Altimo said today. Altimo supports the payment of at least 75
percent of Turkcell’s 2010 profits and whole of 2011 profits as
dividend, it said.  Officials from Cukurova Holding weren’t immediately
available for comment.  Turkcell shares rose 2.7 percent to 9.18 liras at 3:52 p.m.
in Istanbul. The main share index gained 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  