-- Turkey Trade Deficit Narrows for 7th Month as Exports Jump
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-29T09:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/turkey-trade-deficit-narrows-for-7th-month-as-exports-jump-1-.html
Turkey ’s  trade deficit narrowed  for
a seventh month in May as exports jumped and Iran bought more
Turkish gold.  The gap declined to $8.6 billion from $10.2 billion a year
earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on its  website 
today. The median estimate of six economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was $8 billion versus a shortfall of $6.6 billion in
April.  Exports jumped 21 percent to $13.2 billion in May while
imports rose 3 percent to $21.8 billion. The European Union,
Turkey’s largest trading partner, bought 36 percent of Turkey’s
exports, down from 47 percent in the same month last year, the
data show.  “The slowdown in domestic demand and fall in global energy
prices will restrain the import bill in the coming months,”
Basak Karaaslan, an economist at Finansbank AS in Istanbul, said
in an e-mailed report. The deficit will “continue contracting
in a gradual manner” in line with central bank guidance, so
“we do not expect it to have any impact on monetary policy,”
she said.  Rising gold sales to  Iran  boosted exports for a third
month. Sales climbed to $1.4 billion, 11 percent of total
Turkish exports of all goods and up from $1.2 billion in April
and $480 million in March.  Gold to Iran  Gold exports to Iran increased after the Society for
Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication, known as Swift,
expelled Turkey’s eastern neighbor in March, making it almost
impossible for Iran to complete large international fund
transfers.  Turkish Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci has tightened
monetary policy since introducing an interest-rate corridor in
October that allows him to adjust borrowing costs daily
depending on whether he thinks developments in the currency and
in inflation demand a tighter or looser policy. The  weighted
average  rate at which the central bank lends to banks has been
9.17 percent this month, up from 8.71 percent in January.  The tightening has slowed domestic demand that surged last
year after Basci lowered the benchmark rate to 5.75 percent in
August last year, prolonging a borrowing spree with loan growth
hovering around a 40 percent annual pace until the final quarter
of the year. The loan boom also led to a surge in imports,
sending the  current account deficit  to $77.2 billion, or about
10 percent of gross domestic product, by year-end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Aydan Eksin at 
 aeksin@bloomberg.net  