-- Turquoise to Raise $360 Million for Clean Technology Companies
-- B y   L o u i s e   D o w n i n g
-- 2012-06-29T13:14:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/turquoise-to-raise-360-million-for-clean-technology-companies.html
Turquoise International Ltd. plans
to raise as much as 230 million pounds ($360 million) of debt
and equity for four U.K.-based clean technology businesses by
the end of the year.  Turquoise is working to raise funds for bio-ethanol maker
Vireol Plc and RockTron International Ltd., which recycles fly-
ash from coal-fired power stations. It’s also helping Onzo Ltd.,
a smart meter company, and Controlled Power Technologies Ltd.,
which designs carbon reduction products for vehicles, Managing
Director Ian Thomas said in an interview in  London .  The 27-nation European Union is sticking to clean-energy
targets for member states, aiming for an average 20 percent
share of energy from renewable sources across the bloc by 2020.
Britain is aiming for a 15 percent share. Turquoise is a London
corporate finance advisory company for the renewable energy and
environmental industries.  In addition to its advisory service, Turquoise invests
directly in clean energy companies through its Turquoise Capital
LLP unit and the 12 million-pound Low Carbon Innovation Fund,
said Thomas. Turquoise Capital already owns a 22 percent stake
in Controlled Power Technologies.  Turquoise expects to close three or four deals for LCIF by
year-end that could total 1.3 million pounds, Thomas said. The
fund, also backed by the European Regional Development Fund,
invests in businesses in eastern  England  and the deals it’s
currently considering are all in technology orientated
companies, he said.  ‘Relatively Easy’  “In terms of sector focus we haven’t been very active in
wind and solar as those are the two sectors that have
traditionally found it relatively easy to attract capital,” the
director said. It’s near closing a deal for LCIF in an
agricultural technology business that reduces the use of
chemical herbicides, he said.  Turquoise is more active in emerging technologies that are
becoming commercially proven, such as waste-to-energy, said
Thomas. It’s also been involved in biofuels through Vireol,
which is developing a wheat-to-ethanol plant in northeast
England. Turquoise sees a “great opportunity” in European
ethanol, he said.  “ Europe  is a very good place to produce wheat-based
ethanol, especially from the U.K. which has a big feed wheat
surplus,” said Thomas. “Europe is a major exporter of grain to
the world and ethanol will never account for a very significant
percentage of global grain volumes,” he said.  The European Union has a target to boost the share of
biofuels in transport to 10 percent a year by 2020. The
financial crisis has meant very few bioethanol plants have been
built in the region over the past few years, said Thomas, so
there is going to be a “significant” supply gap over the next
five to seven years to meet the bloc’s mandate.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Louise Downing in London at 
 Ldowning4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg in London at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  