-- TV-Newspaper Ownership Limits Left Intact By High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-29T15:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/tv-newspaper-ownership-limits-left-intact-by-high-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court left intact
decades-old limits on ownership of broadcast stations and
newspapers, refusing to hear  media-industry  appeals that might
have led to a wave of acquisitions.  Tribune Co. and other media companies argued that the
Federal Communications Commission rules, some of which date to
1941, don’t make sense in an age of  cable television  and the
Internet. The companies challenged the rules on free-speech
grounds.  “It was a long shot,” Shaun Sheehan, a vice president of
Chicago-based Tribune, said in an interview. “We knew it was a
long shot. We’ll pursue relief from this antiquated restriction
in any venue we can find.”  The court didn’t comment as it turned away the companies,
including  Media General Inc. (MEG) , which owns daily newspapers and a
television station in the Tampa, Florida, area after selling 63
newspapers to  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B)  Some
companies own a broadcast station and daily newspaper in the
same city under exceptions to the rules established in 1975.  The FCC, which must periodically review media-ownership
regulations, has proposed keeping some limits in a rulemaking
begun in December.  “We look forward to prompt consideration” by the agency,
Ray Kozakewicz, a spokesman for Richmond, Virginia-based Media
General, said in an e-mailed statement. “Consumers in markets
of all sizes are better served by the higher-quality local news
and content achievable through common ownership of media
properties.”  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment.  ‘Severely Hampered’  The rules limit local broadcasters’ ability to compete with
cable and satellite-TV companies, and broadcasters are
disappointed with the  high court ’s action,  Dennis Wharton , a
spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters, a trade
group, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Broadcasters remain severely hampered and singularly
constrained by outdated restrictions that prevent them from
joining forces with newspaper publishers,” petitioners
including Tribune and  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Television Stations
argued in court filings.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration and the FCC
defended the limits, arguing that the media companies “ask the
court to overrule a number of its precedents and radically alter
longstanding communications policy.”  The agency voted in 2007 to relax the cross-ownership
restrictions for the 20 largest U.S. markets, which include  New
York ,  Los Angeles  and  Chicago . Other rules limit how many
television and radio stations an owner may amass in a market.  Rush of Acquisitions  A Supreme Court ruling favoring the media industry would
have meant a flurry of consolidation and let some companies
sidestep demands by regulators that they sell stations, said
Andrew Schwartzman, a Washington-based communications lawyer and
adviser to Free Press, a group that opposes media consolidation.  “There would be an immediate rush of acquisitions of
multiple numbers of TV stations in markets throughout the
country, and it would relieve publishers of divestiture
obligations in a number of markets,” Schwartzman said.  The appeals raised issues connected to those the court
passed up a chance to decide in a June 21 ruling on broadcast
indecency. The court said Fox and ABC television stations
couldn’t be punished for airing profanity and nudity a decade
ago, though the court didn’t decide whether broadcasters can
continue to be subjected to fines for on-air indecency while
cable networks and satellite are exempt.  In the ownership case, the media companies targeted
longstanding Supreme Court decisions that give the FCC special
power to regulate over-the-air television and radio because of
the limited number of broadcast frequencies.  Scarce Spectrum  Media companies said that so-called scarcity doctrine has
outlived any logic it might have had at the time.  “In light of the technological revolution of the past
generation, the scarcity doctrine cannot possibly be justified
now,” Media General, which owns 18 TV stations, said in its
separate appeal. “For one thing, technology has vastly expanded
the available broadcast spectrum. In addition, the line between
broadcast and other media platforms has largely vanished.”  The companies also contended that newspaper owners are
unconstitutionally singled out by the ban on cross-ownership.  A federal appeals court upheld many of the restrictions in
July, while telling the FCC to revisit its decision to relax the
broadcast-newspaper cross-ownership limits. Newspaper and
broadcast companies say the agency didn’t go far enough in
easing restrictions.  The cases are Media General v. FCC, 11-691; Tribune Co. v.
FCC, 11-696, and  National Association of Broadcasters  v. FCC,
11-698.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  