-- Vale Talks in China to Sell Largest Ore Carriers Slow After Ban
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-06-29T13:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/vale-talks-in-china-to-sell-largest-ore-carriers-slow-after-ban.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the mining company building
a fleet of the biggest-ever  iron-ore  carriers, said talks with
Chinese ship owners to buy or hire the vessels slowed this year
after the government blocked their access to the nation’s ports.  The Rio de Janeiro-based company drafted a letter of intent
with  China Cosco Holdings Ltd. (1919) , the nation’s largest owner, in
June 2009 to build and charter the carriers, Vale wrote in a
report sent to Bloomberg June 27. It also signed a “framework
agreement” with an unidentified Chinese shipping company in
October 2011 to sell as many as four Valemaxes. Talks “slowed
down” after the transport ministry said in January that ports
needed its permission before allowing the ships to dock.  Vale is spending more than $8 billion on the 35 Valemaxes
to lower costs on the 35-day voyage to  Asia , the destination of
about 45 percent of its Brazilian iron ore. Fifteen of the
vessels, more than twice the size of conventional carriers, have
entered service. Vale will eventually own 19, with the rest
hired from other owners. The ships are already calling in the
Netherlands,  Italy , Oman and the Philippines and ports are being
prepared in  South Korea  and Japan.  “ China ’s main ports are world leaders in design and are
regularly receiving container and oil tanker ships larger than
the Valemax ships,” the company wrote in the report. The change
of policy “appears to benefit  ship owners  who voiced a strong
opposition to Valemax berthing in China.”  Ports Prepared  The China Shipowners Association said in December that the
carriers “arouse safety and environment risks” because Vale
lacks experience in shipping, according to a transcript of
comments by Zhang Shouguo, vice excutive chairman of the group,
posted on its website. Vale says the new ships are the safest
available to carry iron ore.  Five ports in China can already accommodate the Valemaxes,
which can carry about 400,000 metric tons of cargo, and six more
are being prepared, according to a map included in the report.
Vale opened a floating transshipment station in the  Philippines 
in February that moves cargo from Valemaxes to smaller vessels,
bypassing the Chinese ban. A second FTS will be opened in March
2013.  China Cosco’s Joint Company Secretary Guo Huawei didn’t
immediately respond to e-mails seeking comment today. Cosco,
based in Tianjin, China, operates 376 dry-bulk carriers,
according to a quarterly report filed April 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  