-- Verrilli, Skadden, Cravath, Freehills: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-06-29T20:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/verrilli-skadden-cravath-freehills-business-of-law.html
For U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli, the Supreme Court’s decision to uphold the Obama
administration’s health-care overhaul meant vindication.  During oral arguments in March, Verrilli faced questions
from four of the court’s Republican appointees, and afterward
was mocked in campaign ads and by television talk-show hosts,
raising expectations that President  Barack Obama ’s signature
domestic-policy achievement would be thrown out.  Yesterday, after the court issued its 5-4 ruling affirming
the core of the 2010 law, Verrilli was the first person Obama
called. The health-care decision came three days after the high
court largely sided with Verrilli and the administration by
scaling back an Arizona law targeting illegal immigrants.  “Don is one of the great Supreme Court and appellate
advocates of our generation and he knew that,” said David Ogden, a former deputy attorney general who is now a partner at
WilmerHale in Washington. “He knew he did a job that was good
enough to win the case.”  Verrilli, 55, endured some suspenseful moments in the
courtroom yesterday. While the decision was distributed outside
to media and other watchers, people inside -- including Verrilli
-- listened as Chief Justice  John Roberts  announced the ruling.
With Verrilli sitting several feet away, Roberts started by
saying the requirement at the core of the law -- that
individuals get insurance or pay a penalty -- couldn’t be upheld
under Congress’ power to regulate interstate commerce.  For about 10 minutes, the measure’s future looked in doubt.
Then, Roberts switched gears, saying that the majority had
concluded Congress had the authority to impose the insurance
requirement -- under its power to levy taxes, salvaging the
health-care overhaul’s constitutionality.  Verrilli and his colleagues celebrated afterward with
champagne back at his office. The moment was a far cry from late
March when commentators highlighted the harsh questioning he
endured from the justices, including Roberts,  Antonin Scalia  and
 Anthony Kennedy , as signs the law would be struck down.  Following the argument, Verrilli was mocked and criticized
by people ranging from Comedy Central’s “The Daily Show” host
 Jon Stewart  to CNN legal commentator Jeffrey Toobin. The
Republican Party followed with an Internet advertisement that
altered Verrilli’s presentation to show him struggling for words
and twice stopping to drink water.  “It was sufficiently sustained and nasty that it would
affect anybody,” said  Paul Smith , Verrilli’s former partner at
Jenner & Block LLP. “But Don is a grown-up and knows what a
tough town it can be.”  Verrilli, a Columbia Law School graduate and former law
clerk to Justice William Brennan, returned to work after the
health-care arguments and focused on the immigration case which
was still pending. Privately, he made light of the criticism,
and he hinted at it publicly during a speech to Columbia law
graduates last month.  “There will be times when things break badly for you,” he
 told  them. “You don’t live up to the expectations you have for
yourself and others have for you. It happens to all of us. And
when it happens it can be tough, believe me.”  Nominated in January 2011 to replace  Elena Kagan  as
Solicitor General, Verrilli had worked at Jenner & Block in
Washington representing the music and movie industries, winning
a 2005 Supreme Court ruling that lets them press copyright suits
against Internet file-sharing networks.  The decision on tax power surprised  Paul Clement , the
former solicitor general who represented 26 states challenging
Obama’s health-care law. Arguments before the court focused more
on the Commerce Clause, with taxing “not the focus,” he said
in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  For more, click here.  House Makes Holder First U.S. Cabinet Member Cited for Contempt  The U.S. House cited Attorney General Eric Holder in
contempt of Congress for refusing to provide documents about a
federal gun operation and authorized its lawyers to wage a court
battle to get them.  Republicans said Holder didn’t comply with a subpoena for
material from the Fast and Furious operation, which allowed
illegally purchased firearms from the U.S. to wind up at crime
scenes in Mexico. President Barack Obama has asserted executive
privilege over the documents and declined to turn them over.  The 255-67  vote  yesterday, which made Holder the first
Cabinet member ever held in contempt by either chamber of
Congress, follows steady Republican criticism of the nation’s
top law enforcement officer. More than 100 Republican lawmakers
have called for Holder’s resignation over his handling of Fast
and Furious, terrorism and other matters. Many Democrats didn’t
vote and walked off the House floor in protest.  The contempt citation, which doesn’t need Senate approval,
now goes to the U.S. attorney in Washington to determine whether
criminal prosecution is warranted. The Washington prosecutor,
Ronald Machen, is an Obama nominee who probably won’t pursue the
matter after Obama claimed executive privilege over the
documents last week, said Josh Chafetz, a professor at Cornell
Law School in Ithaca, New York.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications because their release would harm the operations
of the White House.  In a statement after the vote, White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said  House Republicans  “pushed for political theater
rather than legitimate congressional oversight.” Separately,
Holder called the House’s contempt citation “the regrettable
culmination of what became a misguided and politically motivated
investigation during an election year.”  Two Republicans, Steve LaTourette of Ohio and Scott Rigell
of Virginia, joined 65 Democrats in opposing the contempt
citation while 17 Democrats supported it. Before the roll call
most of the 108 Democrats who didn’t vote, including Minority
Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California, walked out of the chamber to
protest the resolution.  Lawmakers then voted 258-95 to authorize a civil lawsuit to
force Holder to turn over the documents. Both LaTourette and
Rigell supported the civil enforcement resolution. Democrat on
the oversight panel, called the probe “one of the most reckless
and politically motivated congressional investigations in
decades.”  Cummings argued that the investigation is aimed not at
getting to the truth about Fast and Furious because Issa has
refused to allow questioning of the head of the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, which ran the
operation.  “No member has been able to pose a single question to the
head of ATF,” Cummings said.  For more, click here.  Deals  News Corp. to Split Into Two After Board Approves Separation  News Corp. (NWS) , the media company controlled by  Rupert Murdoch ,
said it plans to split into two after its board approved the
move separating publishing assets from entertainment businesses.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP is representing
 News Corp. (NWSA)  in the matter. New York mergers and acquisitions
partners Howard Ellin,  Brandon Van Dyke and Lou Kling are
involved, as is New York tax partner Steven Matays.  The publishing business consists of newspapers in the U.S.,
U.K. and Australia, as well as book, education and marketing
assets, according to a statement from the  company . The media and
entertainment company includes film and TV assets. Murdoch will
be chairman of both companies and chief executive officer of the
media business when the deal is completed in about 12 months.  “Everyone is enormously excited for what we’ll be able to
achieve with this split,” Murdoch, 81, said in a telephone
interview after the announcement.  With the action, Murdoch is bowing to shareholder demands
after a costly yearlong scandal at his treasured newspaper
operation, which is seen as a drag on the larger and growing
film, broadcast and pay-television units. The phone-hacking
probe at the U.K. newspapers has led to arrests and
parliamentary hearings, costing News Corp. millions.  Centerview Partners, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. are advising News Corp. on the breakup, according to
people with knowledge of the situation. JPMorgan is working with
the company on the capital structure, credit ratings and
financing for the publishing company, one person said.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Cravath Elects Parker Presiding Partner, Chesler as Chairman  C. Allen Parker, a corporate partner, will take the helm at
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP at the beginning of the year.  He
was elected to succeed Evan R. Chesler as presiding partner, as
of Jan. 1. Chesler will become chairman of the firm, also in
January.  “I have known Allen Parker my entire career. He is one of
the classiest guys on Wall Street and helped me build our
investment bank,” James B. Lee, vice chairman of JPMorgan Chase
& Co., said in an e-mail. “The partners at Cravath are in good
hands.”  Parker, who has been the deputy presiding partner of the
firm since Jan. 1, 2007, joined the firm in 1984 and made
partner in 1990. He served as head of the corporate department
from January 2009 to September 2010 and as managing partner of
the corporate department from January 2001 to December 2004.  Parker has experience in a range of finance and banking
matters, including syndicated loan transactions, acquisition
financings and leveraged recapitalizations, the firm said. His
clients, in addition to JPMorgan Chase, have included Citigroup
Inc., Covenant House, DreamWorks Animation SKG and DreamWorks
Studios. Parker declined to be interviewed about his new role.  As chairman, Chesler, a litigator, will continue trying
cases and maintaining the firm’s important client relationships,
according to the firm’s statement.  Chesler served as Cravath’s presiding partner since 2007
and deputy presiding partner before that. Chesler also was head
of the litigation department from September 1996 until November
2005. He joined Cravath in 1976 and became a partner in 1982.  Chesler is known for handling a variety of litigation,
including securities, shareholder derivative, intellectual
property, general commercial, contract and antitrust matters,
the firm said. His clients have included Alcoa Inc., American
Express Co., DuPont Co., International Business Machines Corp.,
JPMorgan Chase and Merck & Co.  Cravath has more than 490 lawyers in New York City and
London.  Herbert Smith to Merge With Australia’s Freehills, Open in U.S.  Herbert Smith LLP of London and Freehills, Australia’s
third-largest law firm, will merge to create a 2,800-lawyer
firm, with plans to open offices in New York, Seoul and Africa.  The full equity merger will take effect Oct. 1, the two
firms said in a joint statement yesterday. David Willis and
Gavin Bell, the managing partners of Herbert Smith and
Freehills, will be joint chief executive officers of the new
firm.  Herbert Smith Freehills, as the firm will be known around
the world, is the fourth combination of an Australian and an
international firm this year and the first to have a single
profit pool for its global partners.  Allens Linklaters , King &
Wood Mallesons and Ashurst have maintained separate finances
while chasing a bigger share of energy, natural resources and
acquisition work with Chinese and other Asian clients.  “As the world’s business and deal activity moves
eastwards, this new firm is exceptionally well-placed to serve
both Asian and multinational clients in the Asia Pacific, the
fastest growing legal market in the world,” said  Mark Johnson ,
Asia head of Herbert Smith.  The new firm will have 20 offices in Asia, Australia,
Europe and the Middle East, and plans to open in New York, Seoul
and North Africa this year, Johnson said in an interview.
Herbert Smith, which has ended a decade-long alliance with
German firm Gleiss Lutz, also plans to open an office in Germany
next year, he said.  Law firms have been merging to better serve clients as the
global economy has slowed and competition increased. The May
bankruptcy of New York-based Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, created in a
2007 merger, illustrates the industry’s challenges.  The world’s largest law firms, DLA Piper and Baker &
McKenzie, don’t have a single pool from which all their partners
share the profit or loss. Recent combinations involving U.S.
firms including  Hogan Lovells  and SNR Denton have also kept
their finances separate.  While some firms like Norton Rose Group, which combines
U.K., Australian, Canadian and South African partnerships, say
they are no different from a fully integrated firm, Bell of
Freehills said that a full merger creates an incentive for all
partners to work together and ensures seamless client service.  “Over the next few years the market for premium legal
services will become increasingly dominated by a small number of
truly global firms,” Willis said.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Kerviel Lawyer Continues Aggressive Strategy in Final Appeal  Jerome Kerviel  apologized to  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  employees
and said he “never lied” during the investigation into the
bank’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.1 billion) trading loss, as his
lawyers asked a Paris court to clear him of any wrongdoing on
the final day of his hearing.  Kerviel, 35, is fighting a 2010 guilty verdict, for which
he was sentenced to three years in prison and ordered to repay
the bank for its losses. Yesterday, the prosecutor asked for the
maximum five years, a tougher recommendation than the lower
court prosecution requested.  The court is to issue its decision Oct. 24. Kerviel and his
lawyers didn’t back down yesterday from the aggressive strategy
they’ve pursued in their appeal. Defense attorneys conceded
their client admitted to exceeding trading limits, falsifying
documents and lying to people who questioned him about his bets
and faked hedges he created to mask the losses. They argued that
none of the actions rose to the level of a crime in France.  Kerviel said throughout the proceeding that his superiors
knew what he was doing and advanced a theory that the bank
allowed him to take such risks in order to use him as a
scapegoat and distract from its losses on the U.S. subprime
mortgage market.  “Jerome Kerviel must get the benefit of the doubt, he must
be cleared,” said Julien Dami Le Coz, one of his lawyers. He
focused on the technicalities of the law, arguing that since
there weren’t individual limits on traders, there was no abuse
of trust. The lawyer also argued that the falsified documents
couldn’t count as crimes under French law because the amounts
Kerviel was claiming -- his bets had risen to 50 billion euros
by the time the bank discovered them -- “couldn’t fool”
anyone.  If Kerviel should be condemned again, his lead lawyer,
David Koubbi, called for a sentence “he could survive.”  Koubbi frequently clashed with Mireille Filippini, who led
the panel of three judges overseeing the appeal. Yesterday, he
continued to criticize the court, saying “nothing has been
respected in this case,” and calling the lower court’s ruling
“absurd.”  Kerviel has changed legal teams at least four times since
the bank loss was announced Jan. 24, 2008. The current team,
which took over about three months before the hearings began
June 4, “decided to take on the defense fully, to let nothing
slip by, to respond blow for blow,” co-counsel Benoit Pruvost
said yesterday.  Moves  World Bank’s Zoellick to Join Harvard, Peterson Institute  World Bank President  Robert Zoellick  said he will join
Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government and the
Peterson Institute for International Economics when his term
ends this week.  Zoellick, who served in three Republican administrations
before taking the World Bank’s helm in 2007, will become a
senior fellow at the Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science
and International Affairs, he said in an e-mailed statement. He
will also be the Washington-based Peterson Institute’s first
Distinguished Fellow, according to the release.  Zoellick graduated from Swarthmore College in 1975 and
earned a J.D. from Harvard Law School and a Master of Public
Policy from the Kennedy School of Government in 1981.  “I hope to work on the intersection of economics and
security, applying history to policy questions of today,”
Zoellick said in the statement.  Zoellick, who was nominated for the World Bank job by
Republican President  George W. Bush  in 2007, has held positions
including U.S. trade representative and deputy secretary of
state. He will be replaced at the bank by Dartmouth College
President Jim Yong Kim.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  