-- Vietnam Bonds Rise as Falling Money-Market Rate Spurs Demand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T10:30:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/vietnam-bonds-rise-as-falling-money-market-rate-spurs-demand.html
Vietnam ’s benchmark five-year bonds
rose for a third day, pushing the yield to the lowest in more
than a week, on speculation falling money-market rates increased
demand from lenders. The dong strengthened.  The  overnight interbank deposit rate  fell 97 basis points
to 4.41 percent today, its lowest level in two weeks, according
to data from banks compiled by Bloomberg. The measure has
declined 199 basis points since June 26. A drop in the rates at
which banks lend to each other makes returns from government
debt relatively more attractive.  “That’s a buying signal,” said Tran Kieu Hung, a Hanoi-
based bond trader at Bank for Investment & Development of
Vietnam. “Demand for bonds has increased.”  The yield on five-year bonds fell four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 9.73 percent, according to a daily
fixing rate from banks compiled by Bloomberg. The yield dropped
eight basis points this week, the first seven-day decline since
the period ending June 8. The rate has decreased 1.75 percentage
points this quarter.  Interbank rates slid this week following a drop in the
central bank’s repurchase rate from 10 percent on June 25 to 8
percent today. The  State Bank  of Vietnam lowered its refinance
rate today to 10 percent from 11 percent and its discount rate
to 8 percent from 9 percent, it said in a statement on its
website. The cuts, effective July 1, were announced after the
bond fixing rate was published.  The dong strengthened 0.1 percent to 20,878 per dollar as
of 5:25 p.m. in Hanoi, according to data compiled by Bloomberg,
from yesterday. The currency has gained 1.2 percent this week,
paring its quarterly decline to 0.3 percent.  The State Bank of Vietnam set its  reference rate  at 20,828,
unchanged since Dec. 26, according to its website. The currency
is allowed to trade up to 1 percent on either side of the rate.  -- Nicholas Heath . Editors: Andrew Janes, Sandy Hendry  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  