-- Vietnam Lowers Key Rates as Growth Holds Below 5% This Quarter
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-29T17:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/vietnam-lowers-key-rates-as-growth-holds-below-5-this-quarter.html
Vietnam cut  interest rates  for a
fifth time this year to spur growth after a report yesterday
showed economic expansion stayed below 5 percent this quarter.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam lowered the refinance rate to 10
percent from 11 percent and the discount rate to 8 percent from
9 percent, it said in a statement on its website yesterday, with
the cuts effective July 1.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.66
percent in the three months ending June from a year earlier,
after climbing 4 percent in the first quarter, the General
Statistics Office said.  Vietnam has struggled with stagnant bank lending and high
 inflation  that crimped corporate growth and domestic demand,
with  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s economic slowdown also
posing risks. The government reduced its target for GDP growth
of as much as 6.5 percent in 2012 to 6 percent, and Do Thuc,
general director of the statistics office, said yesterday full-
year expansion may be 5.4 percent to 5.7 percent.  “While we expected another interest-rate cut this year,
this cut comes a little earlier than we expected,” said  Louis Taylor , chief executive officer for Standard Chartered Plc in
Vietnam,  Laos  and  Cambodia . In the context of the GDP number,
“the cut is less surprising. With inflation having fallen
further, there is still an argument that real interest rates are
higher today than they were three months ago,” he said.  The benchmark VN Index rose 1 percent yesterday, the most
in two weeks, while the Vietnamese dong strengthened 0.1 percent
to 20,878 per dollar, according to prices from banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  State Spending  The Southeast Asian nation has entered a period of sluggish
growth, the  World Bank  said in a report this month that cited
the slow pace of structural reforms and inefficiencies in state-
owned companies, banks and public investments.  The government will accelerate state spending and boost
bank lending to bolster the economy, Deputy Prime Minister
Nguyen Xuan Phuc told the National Assembly on June 15. It also
plans to cut some corporate taxes, defer sales tax payments and
lower lending rates for some companies, he said.  Consumer prices  rose 6.9 percent this month, compared with
a rate of 23.02 percent in August 2011.  “We are encouraged the government is showing itself
willing again to provide whatever solutions are necessary to get
the economy moving,”  Kevin Snowball , the Ho Chi Minh City-based
chief executive of  PXP Vietnam Asset Management (PXPVIET) , wrote in a note
this month, citing the creation of a fund to get non-performing
loans off the balance sheets of banks and revive lending.  Vietnamese banks’ outstanding loans fell 0.59 percent from
the end of 2011 through April, the central bank said on June 21.  Boost Lending  Yesterday’s rate cut “means the central bank really wants
lenders to boost lending to help businesses and bolster the
economy,” said Phan Thi Chinh, deputy chief executive officer
at the Bank for Investment and Development of Vietnam.  The economy expanded 4.38 percent in the first half of the
year, down from 5.63 percent a year earlier.  Vietnam  was hit by
many difficulties in 2010 and 2011, and conditions “became even
more difficult in the first half of this year,” Thuc said in a
briefing in Hanoi yesterday.  Industry and construction, which accounted for 40 percent
of gross domestic product in the first half of the year, grew
3.81 percent in that period. The sub-category comprising only
construction slipped 0.8 percent, the Statistics Office said.  Agriculture, forestry and fisheries, which made up 22
percent of gross domestic product, expanded 2.81 percent in the
first half. Services, which made up 38 percent of the economy,
grew 5.57 percent in the first half. The number of foreign
visitors rose 14 percent in that period.  Emirates, the world’s biggest airline by international
passenger traffic, began daily flights this month between Dubai
and  Ho Chi Minh City , and said it will raise capacity on the
route in October.  --Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City. With assistance from
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen and Nick Heath in Hanoi and Ailing Tan and
Stephanie Phang in  Singapore . Editors: Rina Chandran, Shamim
Adam  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jason Folkmanis in Ho Chi Minh City at 
 folkmanis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  