-- Vivendi’s Fourtou Goes Back to Future With Ouster of Levy
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-29T16:08:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/vivendi-s-fourtou-goes-back-to-future-with-ouster-of-levy.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief Executive Officer
 Jean-Bernard Levy ’s ouster, triggered by a clash with the board
over strategy, clears the way for a potential reorganization of
 Europe ’s biggest media and telecommunications company.  Levy’s departure after seven years at the helm followed
months of tension with Jean-Rene Fourtou, who has chaired
Vivendi since 2002, according to people familiar with the
matter. The disagreements, which centered on 57-year-old Levy’s
resistance to turnaround scenarios including major asset sales
or a breakup, peaked at an executive meeting last weekend, they
said, asking not to be named because the matter was private.  Fourtou and interim chief Jean-Francois Dubos now face the
task of reviving Paris-based Vivendi’s stock price, which
reached a nine-year low in April. They will have to give new
direction to a diverse group of assets that includes SFR,
 France ’s second-biggest telecom operator, and  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) , the world’s largest video-game company.  “Investors over the past year have voted with their
behavior, and they were unhappy,” said  Claudio Aspesi , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London . “It’s not
clear why Vivendi needs to exist as a company, and there’s a
case for selling off all of its assets. But that strategy takes
time and carries some risk.”  Shares Jump  Vivendi shares have risen about 8 percent in Paris since
Bloomberg News reported yesterday that Levy was preparing to
step down, and rose 3.1 percent to 14.63 euros today.  The stock reached a nine-year low of 12 euros on April 19.
It’s still down 13 percent this year through yesterday, giving
the owner of  Universal Music Group  and phone companies in
France, Morocco and  Brazil  a market value of 18.3 billion euros
($23 billion). Vivendi confirmed Levy’s departure in a statement
after the market close.  Analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Nomura raised their
ratings following the news. JPMorgan’s Filippo Pietro Lo Franco,
in a note titled “The story has changed,” estimated that
Vivendi’s stock price may reach 16.90 euros.  Another global media company this week bowed to shareholder
pressure for changes.  News Corp ., the media empire controlled by
 Rupert Murdoch , said it plans to separate into two units after
its board approved a split of publishing assets from
entertainment businesses. Its stock gained 11 percent in the two
days after a June 26 announcement confirming it was considering
the breakup.  Messier Ouster  Pressure on Levy mounted over the past weeks as Vivendi’s
long-running board members Claude Bebear and Henri Lachmann, who
were directors when former CEO Jean-Marie Messier was pushed out
10 years ago, also expressed dissatisfaction, one of the people
said.  Fourtou has stepped in to turn Vivendi around before. He
engineered the 2002 boardroom coup that ousted Messier, whose
acquisition spree transformed the one-time water utility into a
global media giant with a significant presence in Hollywood --
and nearly led to its bankruptcy.  For years, investors have called for an overhaul of
Vivendi’s holding company structure, which they say makes the
stock trade at a discount to the value of the company’s assets.
Since Fourtou told shareholders in April that he would tackle
this “gigantic” conglomerate discount, discussions have
intensified over a potential split between content-production
and telecommunications operations, the people said.  Fourtou Fallout  A sale of part or all of Vivendi’s stake in Activision, the
 Santa Monica , California-based maker of video games like “Call
of Duty” and “World of Warcraft,” have also been considered,
along with a possible spin-off of the Canal Plus pay-TV
operator, they said.  At the same time, Fourtou is now interested in exploring a
de-emphasis of Vivendi’s telecommunications businesses, which he
believes require too much investment to be successful and lack
scale, two of the people said.  During discussions over Vivendi’s future, Levy proved
reluctant to shrink or split the ensemble he helped build
through acquisitions including those of Activision and Brazilian
phone unit GVT, along with the buyout of SFR from partner
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the people said.  “Levy’s resignation makes it more likely that we’ll see
steps toward structural changes, since he was seen as a defender
of the group’s structure” said Mirko Maier, an analyst at
Landesbank Baden-Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart,  Germany . “The
likelihood of major asset sales or even a split-up is
increasing.”  ‘When Appropriate’  The differences between Levy and Fourtou’s views were
apparent during an annual management meeting, which had been
planned to take place last weekend on the French island of
 Corsica  before it was moved to a secret location outside Paris,
the people said.  After the meeting, Vivendi said in a press release it would
communicate its plans “as and when appropriate.” The next day,
Levy cancelled an appearance at a London investor conference
organized by JPMorgan, instead speaking via video conference
about his focus on cost-cutting at the SFR unit, according to
people who attended the meeting.  The tensions with Fourtou were intensified by a U.S. court
decision this week to fine Vivendi $956 million over a 2001 deal
with  Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  made by Messier, the people with
knowledge of their discussions said. The verdict prompted
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings to issue warnings
about their ratings on Vivendi’s approximately 12.5 billion
euros in net debt. Vivendi said it would appeal the ruling.  CEO Hunt  Levy’s departure follows “a divergence of views on the
strategic development of the group,” Vivendi said in its
statement yesterday. “The supervisory board wishes to thank
Jean-Bernard Levy for his contribution over the last ten years
alongside Jean-Rene Fourtou,” the company said.  Vivendi has hired a headhunter to look for a permanent CEO,
although an appointment is unlikely in the short term as Fourtou
looks to guide strategy on his own, said people with knowledge
of the matter. The company yesterday also named personnel chief
Stephane Roussel as SFR’s CEO.  Michel Combes , the Vodafone executive who was due to join
SFR for that position in August, will no longer take the role
after he asked to succeed Levy and was rejected by Fourtou,
according to people with knowledge of their discussions.  Wireless Competition  Combes, 50, had agreed to take the job with the
understanding it would lead to an eventual appointment as CEO
following Levy, and was also discouraged by Fourtou’s pessimism
about the telecommunications industry, the people said.  Levy, who joined Vivendi as chief operating officer in 2002
and was promoted to CEO in 2005, was tasked with restoring
profitability after a three year stretch in which Fourtou
unwound most of Messier’s $77 billion acquisition spree, which
included Hollywood’s Universal film studios and the publisher
 Houghton Mifflin . After profit reached 3.7 billion euros in
2011, Levy said this year that earnings wouldn’t grow again
until 2014 due to competition for SFR from discount mobile
provider  Iliad SA. (ILD)   Fourtou signalled his determination to consider all
possibilities to turn Vivendi around in an April 19 letter to
shareholders in which he said the company’s market discount
relative to its assets was close to 40 percent.  “We will not stay idle,” he wrote, “and there are no
taboos about how we will tackle this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  