-- Vodafone’s Combes Left in Limbo After Vivendi Job Goess
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   M a r i e   M a w a d   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-29T16:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/vodafone-s-combes-left-in-limbo-after-vivendi-top-job-disappears.html
The ouster of  Vivendi SA (VIV)  Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  has caused another executive
to rethink his plans at the company.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s  Michel Combes , who was due to take
over Vivendi’s SFR phone unit, decided not to proceed with a
move because Levy’s removal reduced his chances of becoming CEO
in the future, according to three people who were briefed after
the discussions. They asked not to be identified because the
matter is not public.  Vivendi yesterday named head of personnel Stephane Roussel
as new SFR chief and said Levy will step down following strategy
differences with the board. Combes, 50, who had agreed to take
the SFR position starting Aug. 1, will now stay on at Vodafone
until a reorganization at the U.K. company takes effect in the
fourth quarter, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  Jean-Rene Fourtou, who has chaired Paris-based Vivendi
since 2002, is eager to de-emphasize its telecommunications
businesses, which he believes require too much investment to be
successful and lack scale, the people said. That orientation
also discouraged Combes, whose background is in the industry,
they said.  Combes asked Fourtou if he could take on the top role,
succeeding Levy, and his request was rejected, according to the
people. The French-born executive had agreed to join SFR on the
understanding that the role would lead to an eventual
appointment as Vivendi CEO, they said.  ‘Utterly Critical’  “The SFR role is utterly critical to Vivendi,” Will Draper, an analyst at Espirito Santo in  London , said today.
“The stage was set for Combes to pick up SFR at a low, clear
the decks, and preside over its improvement.”  A Vodafone official declined to comment. Vivendi
representatives didn’t immediately return a phone call and an e-
mail seeking comment.  Levy left after seven years at the helm following
disagreements with Fourtou over his resistance to turnaround
scenarios, including major asset sales or a breakup. Combes’s
existing role at Vodafone as chief of its European division was
eliminated yesterday, after the world’s second-largest mobile
phone company agreed to split the region into two units and
appointed two managers to replace him.  Structural Changes  Vivendi yesterday jumped as much as 7.5 percent on the
Paris exchange after Bloomberg News reported that Levy was
preparing to step down. The company confirmed Levy’s departure
late yesterday. The stock rose 3.1 percent to 14.63 euros today,
the highest level since Feb. 29.  Levy, 57, was criticized by shareholders for failing to
tackle the low valuation of the owner of  Universal Music Group 
and phone divisions in France, Morocco and  Brazil . Vivendi has
been considering an overhaul of its structure, including a
possible sale of video-game publisher  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) 
and a spinoff of pay-TV unit  Canal Plus , people familiar with
the matter have said.  Combes, who was recruited by Vodafone’s Vittorio Colao when
he took over as CEO in 2008, has also held positions at  France
Telecom SA (FTE)  and French mobile-phone tower company TDF.  He was due to bring “strategic vision” to SFR, which
needs to respond to new competitor  Iliad SA (ILD) , Levy said in May.
SFR is looking for ways to stop consumers from subscribing to
Iliad’s discounted packages, which started selling in January.
The company said it will follow price cuts by reducing expenses.  SFR, which accounted for 41 percent of Vivendi’s sales in
the first quarter, has looked to cut costs by stopping unpopular
product lines as well as reducing network, computer and call-
center spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  