-- WestLB’s Fall From Grace Is Lesson in Investment Hazards
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n ,   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-06-29T12:20:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/westlb-s-fall-from-grace-is-lesson-in-investment-bank-hazards.html
WestLB AG, the 180-year-old German
state-owned lender that gained notoriety by trying and failing
to make it as a global investment bank, will cease operations
today. Its demise is a lesson in hubris to its peers.  As of June 30, WestLB will cease to exist as part of
European Union conditions tied to a total 17 billion euros ($21
billion) of aid to bail out the bank following the 2008
financial crisis. Dusseldorf-based WestLB will change its name
to Portigon Financial Services and become an internationally
operating service and portfolio management provider to the bad
bank and to third parties. Its corporate loan portfolio will be
transferred to Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen Girozentrale. All
other units will be wound down.  The closure marks the end of a tumult that crossed
collateralized debt, international real estate and U.S. subprime
markets, and WestLB’s attempt to conquer the investment banking
industry. An EU ruling that forced Germany’s so-called
Landesbanken to give up their state guarantees in 2005 prompted
WestLB to “soak itself in liquidity” beforehand, sparking a
search for higher yield that blinded it to risks as markets were
rocked by the financial crisis, said  Philipp Haessler , an
analyst at Equinet Bank AG in  Frankfurt .  Crisis Lessons  “The lessons of the crisis are that Landesbanken will be
much smaller and less international and that they focus on the
business they were once erected for,”  Simon Adamson , a bank
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London , said. “With the demise
of WestLB, the German banking system slowly moves in a more
efficient direction as overcapacities are reduced.”  Founded in the 19th and early 20th centuries to provide
credit for German companies, the Landesbanken are backed by
state governments and their board members are often publicly
appointed.  WestLB traces its roots to  Westfaelische Provinzial-
Huelfskasse , a non-profit credit institution founded in 1832
with money given to the German state of Westphalia by the
Swedish king as compensation for economic damage caused by
Swedish and Danish troops during the Wars of Liberation between
1813 and 1815.  Lender Merger  The two Landesbanken of Rhineland and Westphalia that
emerged from the Huelfskassen declared insolvency in 1931 and
were taken over by state commissioners. In 1969, Westdeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale was created through the merger of the
two lenders.  Under Friedel Neuber, appointed chairman of WestLB’s
managing board in 1981, the bank pushed ahead with an
internalization begun in the 1970s with the foundation of
offices in London, Luxembourg and  New York . Neuber also laid the
foundations for the bank’s push into  investment banking .  By 2005, WestLB had amassed total assets of 294.4 billion
euros. That compares with Commerzbank AG’s 444.9 billion euros
in total assets that year, and Deutsche Bank’s 992 billion
euros.  Changing Models  WestLB was one of the German Landesbanken that realized
most clearly in the 1980s and 1990s that the lenders’ business
models focusing on lending money cheaply to German companies
were changing and that the world was moving “incrementally
towards a more capital-markets-intermediated world,” Otto Dichtl, a London-based credit analyst for financial companies at
Knight Capital  Europe  Ltd., said on June 15. “WestLB was the
Landesbank that most strongly tried to convert itself and
basically become an investment bank. It made this huge push and
it failed.”  Formula One  WestLB’s ability to use its state-backed  credit rating  to
borrow more cheaply than publicly traded competitors such as
Deutsche Bank AG helped it to win mandates to bankroll projects
such as the redevelopment of London’s Wembley soccer stadium in
2002.  Its U.K. unit also held stakes in Grand Prix auto-racing-
circuit owner Formula One and made a hostile bid for U.K. water
company AWG Plc.  The foray into investment banking, which accelerated with
the hiring of dealmaker Robin Saunders from Deutsche Bank in
1998, was jolted by a 1.7 billion-euro loss in 2002 and a probe
by Germany’s financial regulator into a 1.35 billion-euro loan
to U.K. consumer electronics company Box Clever Ltd. that
prompted the resignation of then-Chief Executive Officer Juergen Sengera.  Close Down  In the past decade, WestLB has only been profitable in
three years out of 10. The bank’s combined losses of 7.21
billion euros in those years compare with a combined profit of
1.13 billion euros in the three years when it made a profit. The
lender needed a capital injection from savings banks in 2004,
following losses in the previous two years as well as in 2004.  WestLB is one of few bailed out European banks that have
been ordered by the EU to close down, amid concerns over the
impact such a closure would have on financial markets. While the
process has taken a long time and cost a lot of money, WestLB is
no longer a threat to financial markets,  Michael Kemmer , the
general manager of the BdB Association of German Banks, said in
a June 22 interview.  “The example of WestLB shows how difficult and drawn-out
the departure of a big player is, until the lender can really
exit the market -- it is a painful process which on top was
extremely expensive,” Kemmer said. “It is not a big burden for
the German market as currently there is enough credit supply and
it won’t lead to a credit crunch scenario of any kind.”  Home Market  Other rescued German Landesbanken such as HSH Nordbank AG
and  Bayerische Landesbank  are being permitted to stay in
business, though they’re closing international operations and
returning their sights to their home market.  Germany ’s Landesbanken received a combined 97.3 billion
euros in state aid and guarantees during the global financial
crisis, with WestLB taking 17 billion euros of that total,
according to company data and Bloomberg calculations. Landesbank
Baden-Wuerttemberg, now Germany’s biggest state-owned lender,
HSH Nordbank, BayernLB and WestLB all needed aid, while
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, Helaba and Landesbank
Berlin survived the crisis without bailouts.  WestLB was probably treated harsher than rivals because it
had been bailed out before, Knight Capital Europe’s Dichtl said.  Bailed Out  “This was not the first time WestLB had to be bailed out,
which is why the EU was tougher with them than with any of the
other Landesbanken or commercial banks,” Dichtl said.  The regional German state of North Rhine-Westphalia, one of
WestLB’s owners and the bank’s home state, estimates that the
demise of WestLB may cost the state, the German government and
the savings banks as much as 18 billion euros, including capital
injections since 2005 and the potential guarantees for the
assets of its bad bank until 2028.  “There were mistakes with many different causes and
responsibilities, which brought WestLB many enemies in Brussels
and few friends in Berlin,” Norbert Walter-Borjans, the state’s
finance minister, said in a statement on May 22. While the
closure of WestLB will cost a lot of money, it is the right,
final and by far the most cost-effective way, he said.  Corporate Clients  As WestLB shuts its doors, other Landesbanken are also
making changes. HSH Nordbank said Aug. 26 last year that it
would  wind down  its international real estate and airplane
financing divisions and close offices in Paris, Amsterdam and
 Shanghai  to gain EU approval for 30 billion euros in aid. The
bank will instead focus on corporate clients in northern Germany
as well as on energy, infrastructure and maritime lending.  BayernLB announced plans in 2008 to refocus operations on
Germany and “selected European regions.” It also plans to sell
its 92 percent stake in real estate company GBW AG and has been
asked by the EU to sell its mortgage-lending unit, LBS Bayern,
to Bavarian savings banks to get approval for the state aid.  Scaling Back  Hanover-based NordLB is also scaling back operations
abroad. Its Deutsche Hypo commercial real estate lending unit is
exiting the U.S. and  Spain  to focus on Germany and neighboring
countries such as the U.K.,  Poland ,  France , Holland and  Belgium ,
Deutsche Hypo said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “If WestLB, which was the biggest Landesbank by quite a
stretch, couldn’t manage it as an investment bank then none of
them can and they will remain more lending-driven banks,” said
 Knight Capital ’s Dichtl. Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has left
them “pulling in their horns even more and focusing on their
long-established bread and butter business such as lending to
corporates and sticking to Germany.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net 
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  