-- Windreich Seeks $315 Million for Wind Farms, Studies IPO, Tie-Up
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-06-29T13:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/windreich-seeks-315-million-for-wind-farms-studies-ipo-tie-up.html
Windreich AG, the largest offshore
wind company in Germany, needs to raise 250 million euros ($315
million) next year to fund development plans and may sell shares
in an initial public offering or find a strategic partner.  Windreich is in early negotiations with two companies with
oil and gas businesses, one in  North America  and the other in
 Europe , over strategic tie-ups to help finance and build a
potential fleet of 1,600 turbines in the German  North Sea , Chief
Operating Officer Anil Srivastava said.  Utilities outside Germany seeking to access Windreich’s 8.4
gigawatts of approved parks or sites with building options that
make up about a third of Germany’s offshore wind zones may also
be interested in investing, Srivastava said in an interview.
Founder Willi Balz would keep a majority if the company based in
Wolfschlugen, southern Germany, holds an IPO, the COO said.  Windreich needs a maximum of 250 million euros to bring all
its projects to a “construction-ready” stage, and cover part
of the payments to suppliers, according to Srivastava. The funds
would enable the company to bring one project to that stage of
development every two years through 2020, he said.  Germany is turning to offshore wind after canceling nuclear
 power plants  after Japan’s Fukushima atomic meltdown. Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government has set a target of operating 10
gigawatts of turbines at sea by 2020 to secure supplies and
boost renewable power, as obliged by  European Union law .  Deutsche Bank  Srivastava was appointed this week after a stint as chief
executive officer of  Areva SA (AREVA) ’s renewables unit. His mission is
to develop a model for building offshore parks using fewer
contracts and companies with marine construction experience.  “If we are able to replicate deployments, then we will
demystify and derisk this industry, both in perception and in
reality,” he said. “Then the capital will flow.”  Windreich plans to get loans for its second project,  MEG 1 ,
by the end of the year and appointed Deutsche Bank AG to arrange
finance for the 400-megawatt, 1.6 billion-euro venture.  Its first project, the 400-megawatt Global Tech 1, got 1
billion euros of finance from lenders including the  European
Investment Bank  last year. Windreich owns 14 percent and expects
the first turbines made by Areva to be commissioned this year.  Selling parks may be a way for the company, which generates
revenue from its onshore wind business, to acquire more cash,
Srivastava said. The company, with 161 million euros in revenue
last year, plans to operate MEG 1 by 2015 and Deutsche Bucht,
its third park, during 2016, with others to follow.  Windreich is interested in Poland’s plans for offshore wind
in the  Baltic Sea , as well as projects in Scandinavia and the
U.K., diversifying from its German business, Srivastava said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  