-- WTO Backs Ruling Against U.S. Country-of-Origin Labeling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-29T18:04:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/wto-backs-ruling-against-u-s-country-of-origin-labeling.html
U.S. country-of-origin labeling
provisions violate global trade law and unfairly curb
agricultural commerce, World Trade Organization judges said as
they upheld an earlier ruling backing  Canada  and  Mexico .  Under U.S. law in force since March 2009, food processors
must identify the nations from which cattle, hogs and some fresh
produce originate. The legislation has its roots in the
discovery of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or mad cow
disease, in a Canadian-bred animal in 2003.  Canada and Mexico said the provisions impose unjust costs
on their exports, reducing their competitiveness. WTO judges
agreed on Nov. 18 that beef and pork from Canada and Mexico were
treated less favorably than the same U.S. products.  Canadian Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz praised today’s
ruling, telling livestock producers and processors in Dundurn,
Saskatchewan, that his government “has always stood with our
cattle and hog producers in order to create a stronger and more
profitable integrated North American livestock industry.”  Public Citizen , a Washington-based lobby, said the
appellate report, which comes on the heels of rulings against
U.S. “dolphin-safe” tuna labels and a U.S. ban on clove
cigarettes, will only intensify public opposition to trade
agreements.  Three Rulings  “These three rulings -- with the WTO slapping down safe
hamburgers, Flipper and children’s smoking prevention policy --
make it increasingly clear to the public that the WTO is leading
a race to the bottom in consumer protection,” Todd Tucker,
research director of Public Citizen’s Global Trade Watch, said
in an e-mailed statement.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  said he is “pleased”
with the ruling as it affirms the right of the U.S. to “adopt
labeling requirements that provide information to American
consumers about the meat they buy.”  Mexico and Canada complained at the Geneva-based WTO in
December 2008, challenging provisions of the U.S. Food,
Conservation and Energy Act that impose mandatory country-of-
origin labeling, known as COOL, for beef,  pork , chicken, lamb
and goat as well as some perishables sold by U.S. retailers.  Canada’s trade department has said U.S. processors are
forced to segregate Canadian animals and meat, leading some
operators to shun those products to avoid the extra costs.
Canada and the U.S. traded C$37 billion ($36 billion) of
agricultural goods in 2008.  COOL has caused many U.S. pork-processing companies to stop
buying animals born in Canada and has cost the country’s pork
industry millions of dollars, according to the Canadian Pork
Council, a federation of nine provincial pork industry
associations. The law costs the Canadian cattle industry C$400
million annually, the Canadian Cattlemen’s Association says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  