-- Yen Assets at Foreign Central Banks at Record, BOJ Data Show
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i ,   H i r o k o   K o m i y a   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-06-29T08:42:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/yen-denominated-assets-at-central-banks-at-record-boj-data-show.html
Foreign central banks boosted their
holdings of yen-denominated assets to the highest level in at
least a decade, an indication  Europe ’s debt crisis has bolstered
the currency’s appeal as a haven.  The holdings rose 26 percent to 44 trillion yen ($555
billion) in Dec. 2011, the highest since comparable data were
made available in 2002, according to information provided
by the  Bank of Japan . Bonds made up 40.7 trillion yen of the 
total, according to the central bank data.    Increased demand for Japanese assets overseas underscores
the difficulty authorities are having in limiting currency gains
since the yen surged to a post-World-War-II high against the
dollar in October.  Japan  sold 14.3 trillion yen last year, the
third-highest ever, to limit the damage a stronger yen inflicts
on the profits of the nation’s exporters.  “Central banks want the yen as they seek safe assets amid
the  European debt crisis ,” said  Akihiko Inoue , chief strategist
at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. in  Tokyo , one of the 25
primary dealers obliged to bid at state debt sales. “This is a
factor that’s pushing up the yen and giving currency authorities
a difficult time.”  The yen traded at 79.63 against the dollar as of 5:04 p.m.
in Tokyo. It has risen more than 4 percent since mid-March.
Europe’s woes have also fueled demand for Japanese government
debt, with the yield on benchmark 10-year bond falling to a
nine-year low of 0.79 percent on June 4.  Bond Holdings  Individual investors are also buying more Japanese
 government bonds . Foreign ownership of Japanese government debt
rose to a record 8.3 percent in 2011, central bank data shows.  Countries are also seeking other Asian assets as they
diversify their holdings. Five central banks placed 3.06 billion
 yuan  of orders for debt yesterday, more than the 2 billion yuan
available to them, according to the Chinese Finance Ministry.  The increase of yen-denominated assets is related to the
“evaluation of currencies as the euro weakens against the yen
and dollar,”  Rintaro Tamaki , Japan’s former top currency
official and deputy secretary general at the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, said in an interview in
Tokyo today. “This is the globalization of the yen. There’s
nothing strange about it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Hiroko Komiya in Tokyo at 
 hkomiya1@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  