-- Yuan Has Worst Quarter Since Peg Ends as Europe Hurts Growth
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-06-29T08:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/yuan-has-worst-quarter-since-peg-ends-as-europe-hurts-growth.html
The yuan had its biggest quarterly
decline since a dollar peg ended in 2005 as  Europe ’s crisis hurt
demand for Chinese exports, slowing expansion in the world’s
second-largest economy.  The People’s Bank of  China  lowered the currency’s daily
reference rate by 0.48 percent this quarter, while the  Dollar
Index  strengthened 4 percent as investors favored safer assets.
Slowing trade to the U.S. and Europe has “impacted” the yuan,
Zhang Jianhua, director-general of the People’s Bank of China’s
research bureau, said at a forum in  Shanghai  yesterday.  “China’s economic data is unlikely to be impressive with
lingering problems in Europe,” said Stella Lee, president of
Success Futures & Foreign Exchange Ltd. in Hong Kong. “The
government is trying to bolster domestic consumption but that
takes time. The  yuan  will only rebound in the fourth quarter if
the economy regains strong growth momentum.”  The yuan weakened 0.88 percent this quarter to 6.3541 per
dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency gained 0.05 percent today as Europe’s
leaders agreed to ease repayment conditions for loans to Spanish
banks.  The central bank set its daily  fixing  0.09 percent lower at
6.3249 per dollar, still 0.5 percent stronger than yesterday’s
close in Shanghai. The currency is allowed to trade as much as 1
percent on either side of the fixing since April, after being
kept at 0.5 percent for five years.  Profits of industrial companies in China fell 5.3 percent
in May from a year earlier to 390.9 billion yuan ($61 billion),
the National Bureau of Statistics said today. That compares with
a 2.2 percent decline in April and a 4.5 percent gain in March.  Hu’s Visit  Economic growth is forecast to slow to a three-year low of
7.9 percent in the second quarter, before accelerating to 8.3
percent in the three months through September, according to
median estimates in Bloomberg surveys.  President  Hu Jintao  will visit  Hong Kong  today for three
days for the 15th anniversary of the city’s return to Chinese
rule. Hong Kong’s biggest banks are calling for an end to the
ban on non-residents buying yuan in the city after  deposits  fell
to the lowest level in 11 months in April. Hu may announce
measures to boost the usage of yuan in offshore markets, and the
Hong Kong Monetary Authority is scheduled to give yuan deposit
figures for May today.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.77
percent this quarter to 6.3610 per dollar. That was the biggest
quarterly drop in Bloomberg data going back to August 2010, the
month after the yuan was allowed to start trading in the city.
Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards advanced 0.04 percent
today to 6.4255, limiting this quarter’s loss to 1.3 percent.
The contracts were at 0.96 percent discount to the onshore rate.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate
swings used to price options, was unchanged at 1.8 percent
today, down from 2.2 percent at the end of last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  