-- China Yurun Denies Allegations of Accounting Misstatements
-- B y   P a t r i c k   B o e h l e r
-- 2012-06-29T11:35:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-29/yurun-denies-allegations-of-accounting-misstatements-correct-.html
China Yurun Food Group Ltd. (1068) , the
nation’s second-largest meat processor, rejected allegations of
accounting irregularities and contaminated products as
“groundless” after its stock sank to the lowest in almost six
years.  Yurun shares rose as much as 5.1 percent in  Hong Kong 
trading today after saying it has procedures to ensure that
“assets are safeguarded, operational controls are in place,
risks are properly managed.” Yurun hasn’t found any food safety
concerns related to its products, it said in a statement to the
Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  The meat company fell 13 percent to HK$6.51 in Hong Kong
trading yesterday, the lowest since October 2006, amid
speculation about its use of cash and loans. Yurun’s “large
amount of cash on hand” raises questions because it also has
low interest income and a high level of loans, Sean Zhang, an
analyst at SWS Research Co., wrote in a note yesterday.  “It is essential for the company’s subsidiaries to
maintain sufficient cash in hand for operations and expansion,”
China Yurun said in today’s statement. “The allegation on
unauthorised use of company’s cash resources for improper
purposes is clearly unjustified, groundless and fabricated.”  The stock rose as much as 5.1 percent to HK$6.84 before
closing at HK$6.75.  Yurun in March replaced its chief executive and said first-
quarter earnings are still suffering from reports last year
about illegal additives in some of its meat.  The company posted a 34 percent decline in 2011 profit that
lagged analyst estimates. Weakened  consumer confidence  and
continuous increases in labor and raw materials had dented
earnings, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Boehler in Hong Kong at 
 pboehler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  