-- ‘Unsustainable’ Dubai Home Price Gains to Slow, Broker Says
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-03T09:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/-unsustainable-dubai-home-price-increases-to-slow-jll-says.html
Dubai home-price increases will slow
in the next 12 months after rising at an “unsustainable rate”
as speculators returned to the market,  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc.
said in a report today.  Values rose 17.9 percent through August from a year
earlier, the broker said. Residential rents climbed 14.9 percent
on average. While the market has fundamentally improved, the
return of confidence has sparked renewed speculation,  Jones Lang (JLL) 
said.  “While residential prices and rents will continue to
increase over the next 12 months, the rate of increase will
decline somewhat,” the broker said. “An extended period of
slower and more subdued growth would be far more beneficial for
the overall market than a continuation of the current rates of
increase followed by another severe correction.”  Dubai home prices increased 21.7 percent in the second
quarter, the fastest pace in the world, a survey by broker
Knight Frank LLP showed, raising concerns that another bubble is
in the making. The revival has prompted a return of advance
sales, known as off-plan transactions, that fueled speculation
before the market collapsed in 2008. Last week, the Dubai Land
Department said it will double the property transaction fee to 4
percent starting Oct. 6 in a bid to limit speculation.  Almost 45,000 new homes are expected to be put up for sale
before the end of 2015 and that will keep the market competitive
and temper the rate of price and rental growth, the broker said.  While the  property market  has heated up, it’s not in a
bubble, HSBC Holdings Plc said in a research note today. The
lender  raised  its share-price estimate for  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) 
to 8.3 dirhams from 7.5 dirhams, saying Dubai’s biggest
developer by market value is “well positioned.” Prices have
surged 33 percent since a January 2011 trough, HSBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  