-- A-Rod’s 211-Game MLB Ban Backed by 72 Percent of Fans in Survey
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/a-rod-s-211-game-ban-backed-by-72-percent-of-fans-in-survey.html
Major League Baseball ’s 211-game
doping ban of New York Yankees third baseman  Alex Rodriguez  is
supported by 72 percent of U.S. sports fans, with almost half of
those saying he should be kicked out of the game for life,
according to a poll by  Seton Hall University .  The Seton Hall poll found that 37 percent of those surveyed
want the ban upheld, while an additional 35 percent would favor
having him banned for life.  Rodriguez filed an appeal with an independent arbitrator
Aug. 6, one day after MLB suspended him without pay through the
2014 season. MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  accused Rodriguez of
using testosterone and human growth hormone for several years
and of trying to “obstruct and frustrate” baseball’s probe  of
a now-closed Miami clinic that MLB accuses of supplying
performance-enhancing substances to players.  Rodriguez, 38, began the appeal before a three-person
arbitration panel in  New York  on Sept. 30 and is expected to
wrap up his case this week, according to a report in the  New
York Daily News .  Selig said last week that he will retire as commissioner
after the 2014 season. Of those polled, 57 percent said he will
enjoy a positive or extremely positive legacy, 20 percent said
it would be negative or extremely negative, and 24 percent said
they did not know.  “It would appear that the continuing appeal of the game
under his reign -- in attendance, marketing, expanded playoffs,
popular new ballparks and more -- will override the steroid
issue in people’s minds,”  Rick Gentile , director of the poll
sponsored by the Sharkey Institute, said in a release. “Of
course, responses could also be influenced by his battling the
very unpopular Rodriguez on the steroid issue.”  The survey, with a 4 percent margin of error, was based on
random phone calls to the landlines and mobile phones of 668
American adults between Sept. 30 and Oct. 2, according to  Seton
Hall , which is based in South Orange, New Jersey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  