-- ACWA Power Plans to Raise Funds From Sukuk to IPO for Solar Push
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-10-03T11:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/acwa-power-plans-to-raise-funds-from-sukuk-to-ipo-for-solar-push.html
ACWA Power International plans to
sell shares and Islamic bonds as the Saudi Arabian developer of
generation facilities joins Middle East companies seeking to
raise funds for expansion.  The company may offer $800 million from the sale of sukuk
this year before an initial public offering on the Saudi
exchange at the end of 2014, Chief Executive Officer Paddy Padmanathan told reporters in Dubai today. ACWA aims to start
its first solar project in the kingdom this year, he said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest crude oil exporter, plans
to invest $100 billion in solar expansion. The kingdom is
looking to  renewable energy  to help meet power demand, that
Padmanathan says is growing nearly 10 percent a year, and to
save crude for export.  ACWA’s sukuk would add to Islamic bond sales in the kingdom
that are dominating issuance in the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Saudi Arabia’s General Authority of Civil Aviation, Almarai Co.
and Saudi Binladin Group raised a combined $4.8 billion in
Islamic debt last quarter. IPOs are also seeing a revival in the
region, with  Qatar Petroleum  and fast-food chain Just Falafel
said to plan share sales.  ACWA is also waiting to close a $1.2 billion financing
package for the Rabigh II power plant on the Red Sea coast,
Padmanathan said. The company is competing with  Electricite de
France SA (EDF)  to build a 100 megawatt plant in the city of Mecca,
with municipal authorities set to make a decision on the winner
of the $230 million project this year, he said.  Mecca would become the first Saudi city to operate a
utility-scale plant generating power from renewables. The
government-mandated King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable
Energy aims to build 41,000 megawatts of solar plants over the
next two decades, which would account for one third of the
capacity the country is forecast to have by that time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  