-- Thai Baht Climbs as U.S. Shutdown Cuts Dollar Demand; Bonds Rise
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-10-03T09:03:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/thai-baht-climbs-as-u-s-shutdown-cuts-dollar-demand-bonds-rise.html
Thailand ’s baht gained, extending a
rebound from last month’s three-year low to 4 percent, as U.S.
lawmakers’ failure to resolve a budget impasse damped demand for
the dollar.  Government bonds  advanced.  President  Barack Obama  said he was “exasperated” with
Republican lawmakers, while House Speaker  John Boehner  said
Obama refused to negotiate in a meeting with Congressional
leaders. China’s non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index
rose to a six-month high of 55.4 last month, data showed today.
Thailand’s exports climbed in August, snapping three months of
declines, and the current-account balance showed a surplus for
the first time since March, according to official figures.  “With the problem in the U.S., investors don’t want to buy
the dollar,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for Economic Research in Tokyo. “Asia, including
Thailand, will be a beneficiary of the recovery in China and
other regions through exports.”  The baht rose 0.2 percent to 31.233 per dollar as of 3:50
p.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
fell to 32.48 on Sept. 6, the weakest level since July 2010.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected swings in
the exchange rate used to price options, increased five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 7.47 percent.  Thailand’s overseas sales will recover in the fourth
quarter while the government is concerned that the partial U.S.
government shutdown may cause foreign-exchange volatility,
Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said yesterday.  Improving Exports  Shipments (THCTEXPY)  rose 3.9 percent in August from a year earlier
after a decline of 1.5 percent the previous month, a customs
report showed on Sept. 26. The country posted a current-account
surplus of $1.3 billion for the month, following a deficit of
$1.6 billion in July, according to central bank data. China is
Thailand’s largest overseas market, with a share of 11 percent
of goods shipped in the first eight months of this year.  The yield on the 3.625 percent bonds due June 2023 fell one
basis point to 3.84 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Finance Minister Kittiratt said today the central bank’s
benchmark rate of 2.5 percent is too high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  