-- Thailand’s Benchmark Interest Rate Too High, Kittiratt Says
-- B y   T o n y   J o r d a n   a n d   C h r i s   A n s t e y
-- 2013-10-03T09:11:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/thailand-s-benchmark-rate-too-high-finance-chief-kittiratt-says.html
Thailand ’s Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said the central bank’s benchmark rate is too high,
while resigning himself to lacking the power to influence it.  “I still believe that the policy rate is still too high,”
Kittiratt, 55, said in an interview at his ministry in Bangkok
today. “But I am not saying that because I want them to cut
it,” he said. “My opinion is irrelevant because my colleagues
in the  Monetary Policy  Committee will be very independent.”  Thailand’s finance chief said his focus is on proceeding
with a 2 trillion baht ($64 billion) transport-infrastructure
program, rather than on “external” dynamics such as the
central bank’s policy or international developments. Kittiratt
said that for now the impact of the U.S. government shutdown
isn’t a concern, and that the prospect of reduced Federal
Reserve stimulus is welcome, because exiting quantitative easing
would mean the American economy is strengthening.  While Kittiratt said he didn’t “mind too much” about
short-term gross domestic product figures, it would be “nice”
for  growth  to come in at 4 percent this year. The baht, which
was excessively strong earlier this year, is now at an
appropriate level, according to the minister. “I don’t hope to
see a weaker baht -- I want a stable baht.”  The baht traded at 31.24 per dollar as of 3:10 p.m. in
Bangkok, up about 3 percent in the past month after the Fed
decided to postpone any tapering in its monthly asset purchases
-- diminishing the risk of an outflow of capital from  emerging
markets . Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  advanced 1.4 percent, bringing its
gain over the past month to 8.6 percent.  Lower Growth  The Southeast Asian nation is struggling with weak exports,
slowing local demand and delayed  government spending . Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has tried to speed up budget
disbursement and extended some subsidies after the economy
slipped into a technical recession in the second quarter.  The  Finance Ministry  last week cut its 2013 growth forecast
to 3.7 percent from 4.5 percent. It said expansion may still
reach 4 percent if the government pushes through 86 billion baht
in spending by the end of the year.  “Monetary policy should do the job” because fiscal policy
has gone almost on a tightening path with a lower  budget deficit 
and a lack of infrastructure spending, said Santitarn
Sathirathai, a Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group
AG. “We still believe there is a chance the central bank may
cut the rate this year. Lower rates will help stimulate local
demand as we can’t see any economic catalyst now.”  Fed Exit  The central bank kept its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged
at 2.5 percent for a second straight meeting on Aug. 21 after
cutting it by a quarter of a percentage point in May to bolster
growth. The next policy decision is due Oct. 16.  Emerging markets aren’t likely to see a crisis as a result
of the Fed ending its QE program, said Kittiratt, who also
serves as deputy prime minister. “Exchange rates will work as
the most important adjustment factor” for some countries,
helping manage their current-account balances, he said. India
and  Indonesia  were among the nations that saw the biggest slide
in their currencies after concern mounted in May that the U.S.
would reduce injections of liquidity into the global system.  “It has to end some day,” Kittiratt said of the Fed’s QE
program. “The sooner the better,” he said, because of the
challenges in the rest of the world coping with resultant
capital flows. “It worked,” he said of the Fed’s initiative,
citing increases in American employment.  U.S. Shutdown  The shutdown of the American federal government that began
this week is unlikely to hurt the global economy for now,
according to Kittiratt. He said that the shutdown in 1995, when
the U.S. accounted for a larger share of world output, showed
that a two-to-three week impasse “shouldn’t be a serious
problem.” “If this situation is prolonged, no one could say we
would not suffer -- I think the whole world would suffer.”  President  Barack Obama  and Republican and Democrat
lawmakers have been unable to agree on a budget for the U.S.
fiscal year that began Oct. 1, leading to the first partial
government shutdown in 17 years.  Kittiratt said he’s concentrating on what he can control,
preparing to present a seven-year infrastructure program to the
Thai Senate next week. The rail and road projects envisioned
will boost GDP by a total of 3 percent by the end of 2020,
reducing imports of fossil fuels and increasing the attraction
of investing in areas of the country besides Bangkok, he said.  Infrastructure Boost  While critics including the opposition Democrat party have
expressed concern about the additional debt Thailand would take
on from the initiative, they fail to note that past
infrastructure spending has proved key to the country’s
development, the finance chief said. He cited a port on the
eastern seaboard conceived during the administration of Prem Tinsulanonda, and ex-Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra ’s
decision to build Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi airport.  Thaksin’s sister Yingluck is driving the new transport
program. Kittiratt said the administration is girding for legal
challenges to the legislation after its passage, and will focus
on getting the projects ready in the meantime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Jordan in Bangkok at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  