-- Al-Shabaab Terrorists in Kenya Attack Seen as U.S. Threat
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/al-shabaab-group-behind-kenya-attack-seen-as-u-s-threat.html
Al-Shabaab, the Somali terrorist
group behind a four-day attack on a Nairobi shopping mall,
threatens U.S. embassies and interests in Africa and potentially
on U.S. soil as well, counterterrorism analysts told Congress.  The Westgate Mall attack last month showed al-Shabaab’s
growing capacity to conduct sophisticated operations requiring
careful planning and reconnaissance,  Seth Jones , associate
director for international security and defense policy at Rand
Corp., told the House Foreign Affairs Committee.  That ability, coupled with the group’s use of online social
media and “Jihad rap” recruitment videos on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
YouTube.com to attract young Americans, is a concern, Jones said
at a panel hearing yesterday.  “Al-Shabaab has the capacity to strike outside  Somalia ,”
he said. “They have an interest in targeting the  United States ,
and three, they’ve been recruiting inside America. You put all
those together and, yes, there’s reason for concern.”  The al-Qaeda affiliate controls large parts of southern
Somalia and imposes an extreme version of Sharia law, including
stoning women accused of adultery and amputating hands to punish
theft. Even as al-Shabaab has lost control of territory, Jones
said, it has maintained its operational capability.  Attacking Kenya  By 2012, almost a quarter of the group’s attacks targeted
 Kenya , which contributed troops to a United Nations peacekeeping
mission in Somalia, known as AMISOM and operated by the  African
Union . As part of its duties, AMISOM supports the Somali
government that al-Shabaab seeks to topple.  While Jones said the group hasn’t shown interest in
exporting terror attacks to the U.S. right now, he and other
witnesses told the committee about the risk that Somalis already
in the U.S. could become part of a domestic plot.  There are 50 American members of al-Shabaab and there may
be more, said Representative Michael McCaul, a Texas Republican.  An Alabama man known as Abu Mansoor Al-Amriki, or “the
American,” helped lead the group until internal disputes led to
his death last month in an ambush in Somalia that the  Associated
Press  said was ordered by al-Shabaab. The U.S. Somali population
is estimated at 100,000 by the U.S. Census Bureau.  “The risk to the homeland is definitely there,” said Don Borelli, chief operating officer of the Soufan Group, a New
York-based consulting firm that provides strategic intelligence
services to governments and businesses. “I don’t know if it’s
higher today than it was a month ago.”  Domestic Risk  Borelli told the committee he fears that if radicalized
Somali-Americans hold a U.S. “blue passport, they can come back
and re-integrate and we have a very dangerous situation.”  The militia’s diffuse leadership structure makes it harder
to dismantle or destroy, David Kilcullen, a former U.S. State
Department adviser on counterterrorism, said in his book, “Out
of The Mountains: The Coming Age of the Urban Guerrilla.”  While the Pakistan-based militant group Lashkar-e-Taiba
kept its command center in  Pakistan  during the 2008 Mumbai
terror attack, “the Somali militia made their command and
control node invulnerable by not having one,” Kilcullen said.  Al-Shabaab has carried out almost 550 terrorist attacks
since 2007, according to the National Consortium for the Study
of Terrorism and Responses to Terrorism, in  College Park ,
 Maryland .  Representative Ted Poe, a Texas Republican who leads the
Foreign Affairs subcommittee on terrorism, expressed concern
that al-Shabaab had easy access to U.S.-run media such as
Twitter Inc.’s microblogging site. The group used Twitter.com
messages to goad Kenyan officials while the mall attack was
under way. The assault left 69 dead, hundreds wounded and dozens
missing, according to the Kenyan Red Cross.  Twitter Concern  “Twitter claims it doesn’t allow terrorists to use the
account,” Poe said, citing a law that forbids support for
terrorist groups.  “Either way, Twitter should be taking down terrorist
accounts,” Poe said. “It’s time for Twitter to stop violating
the law.”  Nu Wexler, a Twitter spokesman, said, “We do not comment
on individual Twitter accounts, for security and privacy
reasons,” in an e-mail.  Rules posted  on the San Francisco-based company’s website
tell users, “You may not publish or post direct, specific
threats of violence against others.”  Witnesses at the hearing yesterday stressed al-Shabaab’s
command of social media.  “Al-Shabaab means ‘the youth,’” said Richard Downie,
deputy director of the  Africa  program at the Center for
Strategic and Independent Studies, a Washington research group.
“It attracts a lot of people who are media-savvy and uses media
to powerful effect.”  The Internet’s reach allows al-Shabaab to recruit globally.  “The Internet does not know the boundary between Somalia
and  San Diego ,” Borelli said. The U.S. shouldn’t make the same
mistake it made in the early days of al-Qaeda and “see it only
as a local group,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  