-- Alabama Bans Safety Ha Ha Clinton-Dix for Rules Violation
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-10-03T20:03:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/alabama-football-bans-ha-ha-clinton-dix-for-violating-team-rules.html
University of Alabama  safety Ha Ha
Clinton-Dix was suspended indefinitely for an unspecified
violation of team rules, leaving the defending national
champions without one of college football’s top defensive backs.  Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban declined to say at a news
conference what rules were involved in Clinton-Dix’s case.  The Tuscaloosa News  reported today  that Corey Harris, an
assistant strength and conditioning coach at  Alabama , was placed
on administrative leave for providing impermissible benefits to
Clinton-Dix. The coach loaned Clinton-Dix an amount less than
$500 this summer, a violation of National Collegiate Athletic
Association rules, the newspaper reported without saying where
it got the information.  Douglas Walker, an athletic department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the report.  Saban said yesterday that he wouldn’t comment on details of
Clinton-Dix’s case.  “I’m going to be consistent,” he said. “When guys get
suspended, I never ever say what it’s for. All right? I’m not
going there. So don’t ask me. It’s the way it always happens.
Every guy, if they do right, they wouldn’t be getting suspended.
I don’t know for how long this will be, so don’t ask me that
either.”  Draft Prospects  The nation’s top safety prospect out of high school,
according to Rivals.com, Clinton-Dix is second on the team with
24 tackles, trailing linebacker C.J. Mosley’s 35. The 6-foot-1,
208-pound junior is projected to be the first defensive back
chosen in next year’s  National Football League  draft, according
to ESPN analyst Todd McShay.  The undefeated Crimson Tide (4-0), the No. 1-ranked team in
the Associated Press Top 25, host Georgia State (0-4) on Oct. 5
and travel to play  Kentucky  (1-3) on Oct. 12. Alabama has won
three of the past four Bowl Championship Series national titles.  Clinton-Dix’s backup, senior Nick Perry, is injured.
Sophomores Landon Collins and Geno Smith will play this week in
his absence, Saban said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  