-- Malaysia Starts Gold Futures Trade as Investor Demand Grows
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2013-10-03T09:16:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/malaysia-to-start-gold-futures-trade-as-investor-demand-expands.html
Malaysia’s first gold futures
contract will start trading on Oct. 7 to meet investor demand,
according to the head of the country’s derivatives exchange.  Gold will continue to be volatile and the 100-gram,
ringgit-denominated contract will allow investors to trade
without worrying about currency fluctuations, Chong Kim Seng,
chief executive officer of Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Bhd., said
in an interview. Bullion for delivery up to one year will be
cash settled and benchmarked against the London fixing, he said.  Prices slumped into a  bear market  this year after 12 annual
gains, spurring increased demand from buyers in  Asia  including
China,  Thailand  and Indonesia. Malaysia imported 9 billion
ringgit ($2.8 billion) of gold in 2012, mainly for processing
into jewelry, and exported about 7 billion ringgit of gold
jewelry, said Chong. Gold imports totaled 6 billion ringgit in
the first half, signaling increased physical demand, he said.  “The small contract size means retail customers, big or
small, can be involved and traders who want to do hedging can
just do multiples,” said Chong. “The issues that’s facing the
U.S., the government shutdown and the tapering policy, have an
impact on the  U.S. dollar  and  interest rates , so it’s important
that people consider gold as part of their portfolio.”  Gold for immediate delivery, which traded at $1,310.74 an
ounce at 5:14 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , has declined this year on
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve will taper stimulus as the
largest economy strengthens and inflation fails to accelerate.
Bullion rose 2.2 percent yesterday and fell 3.1 percent on Oct.
1 as the U.S. government’s first shutdown in 17 years began.  ETP Holdings  Rising demand for gold in Asia helped offset record sales
from bullion-backed  exchange traded products . Holdings that
increased every year since the first product was listed in 2003
have shrunk 705.7 tons this year, reaching a three-year low of
1,926.2 tons yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Demand for gold in Malaysia may increase as investors seek
to hedge against a depreciating currency. The ringgit is the
worst performer in  Southeast Asia  this year, with a 4.3 percent
loss, after Indonesia’s rupiah and the Philippine peso.  “There’s a lot of investing interest out there in the
marketplace and a need for a more safe and trusted regulated
platform,” said Chong. Bursa, part-owned by CME Group Inc. and
a unit of  Bursa Malaysia Bhd. (BURSA) , may start gold options and silver
futures contracts later on, he said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  