-- EU Won’t Prejudge Possible Issues With Telefonica-KPN Deal
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-10-03T09:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/almunia-has-no-concern-about-telefonica-purchase-of-kpn-unit-1-.html
The European Union said it won’t make
any determinations on  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s acquisition of Royal KPN
NV’s E-Plus unit before the deal has been formally notified.  “The O2/E-Plus deal has not yet been notified to the
European Commission for review,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman
for EU Competition Commissioner Joaquin Almunia, said in an e-mailed statement today. “We have no concerns at this stage
because we have not yet investigated.”  The EU issued the statement after Almunia told reporters in
Vilnius, Lithuania, earlier today that he has “no concerns”
about the deal. “I have some preliminary information, but the
proposed merger has not yet been formally notified. We are in
preliminary contacts with the parties involved,” Almunia told
reporters.  The 8.55 billion-euro ($11.6 billion) sale, which will
merge the two companies’ German units, is one of two deals that
may transform the country’s telecommunications industry once
dominated by  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  EU regulators have already
given the go ahead to  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s bid for  Kabel
Deutschland Holding AG. (KD8)   “The commission never has any a priori bias about any
mergers before investigating them,” Colombani said in the e-mail today. “Our investigation will determine whether we
identify any competition concerns regarding this proposed
acquisition.”  Last month in Florence,  Italy , Almunia said that he would
reject calls by German regulators that sought to review the deal
at the national level. Andreas Mundt, the head of the German
Federal Cartel Office, said in August that the Telefonica deal
only affects his country and should be reviewed by his office.  KPN Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said yesterday that
he was confident the deal would win EU approval.  “All the work we have done with Telefonica, individually
made us conclude that the likelihood of approval is very high,”
Blok said as company shareholders voted to approve the
transaction. “That is why we put it already to our
shareholders, otherwise you wouldn’t do it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  