-- Applied Materials Seen Winning Approval for Bid: Real M&A
-- B y   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-10-03T14:17:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/applied-materials-seen-winning-approval-for-bid-real-m-a.html
Traders are wagering that a lengthy
antitrust review won’t stop  Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT)  from
completing a $9.39 billion deal to help the world’s No. 1
supplier of chipmaking equipment boost its market share.  Applied Materials agreed last week to an all-stock purchase
of  Tokyo Electron Ltd. (8035) , the third-biggest manufacturer, pushing
their combined market share to at least 25 percent.  Tokyo 
Electron has also said the new company will seek more deals to
add share. While Tokyo Electron has  fallen  five straight days on
traders’ concerns about regulatory approval and how long it will
take to close the deal, both stocks are still up at least 6
percent since the combination was announced, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The companies estimate the transaction will be completed by
the second half of 2014, after they win clearance from
regulators in the U.S.,  China  and  Japan . While Argus Research
Co. says there’s at least a 40 percent chance the takeover will
be blocked or delayed, UBS AG estimates the two companies’ top
three products are different, which should help ease antitrust
concerns.  “They won’t be dominating any of these existing markets to
the point where I think it’s going to be much of a hurdle,”
Angelo Zino, an equity analyst at S&P Capital IQ in  New York ,
said in a phone interview. “In my view, the deal gets done, but
it’s definitely going to be a long process.”  Deal Value  Taking into account Tokyo Electron’s $2.5 billion in  net
cash , the total value of the deal is less than $7 billion, which
still makes it the largest foreign takeover of a Japanese
company in six years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “At this point, we plan to close the consolidation in the
latter half of 2014 after the approvals by authorities and
shareholders,” Tatsuya Aso, a spokesman for Tokyo Electron,
said in an e-mail yesterday. “No change has been made after the
announcement.”  Kevin Winston, a spokesman for Applied Materials, declined
to comment.  Tokyo Electron  shareholder s will get 3.25 shares of the new
entity for each share they hold in the Tokyo-based supplier.
Applied Materials shareholders will get one share for each share
they own, leaving investors in the  Santa Clara , California-based
company controlling about 68 percent of the merged entity.  Today, Applied Materials shares fell 0.5 percent to $17.42
at 10:04 a.m. New York time  Tokyo Electron, after declining for five days, rose 1.4
percent today to 5,240 yen. That’s still about 5 percent below
the current value of the all-stock bid, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Long Review  The spread indicates there’s some concern among traders
that regulators could drag out the review process and ask for
divestitures or other concessions, according to Peter Drippe, a
New York-based portfolio manager who runs merger arbitrage at
Visium Asset Management LP.  “Expectations are that it won’t get blocked,” Drippe said
in a phone interview. “There are a lot of markets to look at in
terms of what these guys do, and it’s very detail-oriented so it
could certainly get a pretty long-term review.”  While it’s rare for regulators to completely halt mergers,
there’s still a chance this deal may be rejected, said  James Kelleher , a New York-based analyst at Argus Research.  “This quite simply would give Applied Materials a very big
market share in semiconductor fabrication, and some may feel
that’s insurmountable,” he said in a phone interview. “There
are a lot of places where this deal could stumble.”  Osamu Tanabe, director of the mergers and acquisitions
division at Japan’s Fair Trade Commission, declined to comment
on the approval process. Two phone calls to the Ministry of
Commerce Anti-Monopoly Bureau went unanswered during a public
holiday in China.  Industry Leader  Gina Talamona, a spokeswoman for the  U.S. Department of
Justice , declined to comment. Representatives at the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission couldn’t be reached during a government
shutdown. The FTC’s website said the agency was closed.  Applied Materials is the biggest chip-manufacturing
equipment supplier, bringing in 14.4 percent of industry revenue
last year, according to research firm Gartner Inc. Tokyo
Electron’s 11.1 percent market share ranked third, after  ASML
Holding NV. (ASML)   Tokyo Electron President Tetsuro Higashi, who will become
chairman of the new company, said in an Oct. 1 interview that
the combined entity will seek more deals after the merger.  Regulators will review whether Applied Materials and Tokyo
Electron compete in the same areas, how concentrated those
markets are, and how easily customers can switch products in
response to price increases, said Daniel Crane, an antitrust
lawyer and a professor of law at the  University of Michigan .  Product Overlap  The primary products where the companies overlap are etch,
the technique of removing material from the surface of silicon
wafers, and deposition, the process of putting layers of metals
and non-metals on disks of silicon during the creation of chips,
according to  Timothy Arcuri , a San Francisco-based analyst at
Cowen Group Inc. Etch consists of two separate markets --silicon
etch, which is dominated by Lam Research Corp., and dielectric
etch, where Applied Materials has lost “tremendous” market
share, he said in an e-mail.  “In neither of these markets would the competitive balance
of power shift,” Arcuri said.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  and
Samsung Electronics Co. now buy the majority of the production
machines deployed by the equipment industry, and antitrust
agencies typically analyze how customers are affected by a
merger.  Consolidation Trend  “The trend for consolidation in the semiconductor industry
has been going on for a while for our suppliers and customers,
as well,” Elizabeth Sun, a spokeswoman for Hsinchu, Taiwan-based TSMC, said in a phone interview. “If TSMC suppliers’
consolidation can create synergistic benefits, it’s a good
thing, as R&D costs are rising.”  Chuck Mulloy , a spokesman for Santa Clara-based Intel, and
Nam Ki Yung, a spokesman for Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung,
declined to comment.  Applied Materials and Tokyo Electron said they would give
up as much as $600 million in revenue by divesting businesses or
making other concessions in order to win regulatory clearance,
according to their agreement.  “That suggests to me that they’ve done the work to figure
out what kind of leeway they need,” Don D’Amico, a special
situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son Inc. in New York, said
in a phone interview. “The overarching issue here is, how much
time? Not will it happen, but when?”  Frustrated Arbs  The deal became a “source of some frustration” to merger
arbitragers because the American depositary receipts of Tokyo
Electron aren’t liquid enough to make bets on the transaction’s
timing or completion odds, according to a research note last
week from  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based MKM Partners LLC. The primary shares of the
two companies trade in different time zones in New York and
Tokyo.  The market is already projecting that regulatory clearance
won’t be a major problem, according to Mehdi Hosseini, an
analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group LLP in  San Francisco .
Tokyo Electron  shares  have risen 6.6 percent since the deal was
announced, and Applied Materials is up  9.5 percent .  While there isn’t enough product overlap between the two
companies to prompt regulators to block the deal, the approval
process may take much longer than some investors expect, said
Jagadish Iyer, a Piper Jaffray Cos. analyst in New York.  “Could this get pushed out even later than late 2014?
Definitely,” said S&P Capital IQ’s Zino. “I’d say that’s the
biggest concern right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  