-- Argentina Barred by U.S. Judge From Planned Bond Exchange
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-10-03T22:27:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/argentina-barred-by-u-s-judge-from-evading-bonds-order.html
Argentina  was barred by a U.S. judge
from going forward with a plan by President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  to exchange restructured bonds for debt payable in
that country.  U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in  Manhattan  today said
the plan, announced by Kirchner in a national address on Aug.
26, is “an apparent attempt to evade” his orders in a case by
billionaire hedge fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management
Corp. and other holders of defaulted bonds against Argentina.  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of more than 90 percent of the bonds
agreed to take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at a deep
discount. Griesa in February issued orders barring Argentina
from paying holders of the restructured debt without also paying
in full holders of $1.5 billion of its defaulted bonds.  Kirchner’s plan would allow holders of the exchange bonds,
which are governed by  New York  law, to swap them for debt
governed by Argentina law. The plan’s purpose is to shield
payments on the restructured debt from action by U.S. courts.  Griesa, who referred specifically to the Kirchner plan,
today barred Argentina from “altering or amending the processes
or specific transfer mechanisms by which it makes payments on
the exchange bonds, without prior approval of the court.”  Case Filed  The case was filed in 2008 by holders of the defaulted
bonds, led by Elliott and Aurelius Capital Management LP.  Argentina has vowed never to pay the  hedge funds  and other
holders of its defaulted bonds, whom the country’s leaders have
called “vultures.” The legislature passed a law in 2005
barring payment of the defaulted bonds.  After Griesa issued the February orders tying payments on
the exchange bonds to payment of the $1.5 billion in defaulted
debt, he delayed enforcement to allow Argentina to appeal.
Griesa also ordered Argentina not to “take any action to
evade” his rulings before the appeals are concluded.  The federal appeals court in New York upheld Griesa’s
rulings in August. Argentina is seeking U.S. Supreme Court
review.  The lower court case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of
Argentina, 08-cv-06978, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan). The appeal is NML Capital Ltd. v.
Republic of Argentina, 12-00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  