-- Arsenal Set to Offer Wenger $39 Million Contract: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-03T09:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/arsenal-set-to-offer-wenger-39-million-contract-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Wenger’s Contract  Arsenal is preparing formal discussions with manager  Arsene Wenger  over a new three-year contract worth 24 million pounds
($39 million), the  Daily Mail  reported.  Funds from the club’s budget are said to have already been
set aside and officials are confident Wenger, whose current
agreement expires at the end of this season, will sign a new
deal, the newspaper added.  Real Prepares  Real Madrid is readying a bid of 45 million pounds for
Liverpool striker  Luis Suarez  in January, the  Sun reported .  The Uruguayan forward wanted to move in the previous
transfer window, though Liverpool rejected an offer of 44
million pounds from Arsenal, the newspaper added.  Bale Out  Gareth Bale is set to miss the next three weeks to try to
get fit for Real’s first matchup of the season against Barcelona
on Oct. 26 or 27, the  Daily Mail reported .  A left thigh injury kept the Welsh winger out of last
night’s  Champions League  victory against Copenhagen and Real
wants to avoid rushing back the world-record 86 million-pound
signing too soon, the newspaper added.  Juventus for Lukaku?  Italian champion Juventus is targeting Chelsea striker
Romelu Lukaku after he was sent out on loan for the second
straight season, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The Belgian has also switched agents from Christophe
Henrotay to Mino Raiola, who has strong connections with the
leading Serie A clubs and took former Manchester United
midfielder Paul Pogba to Juventus, the newspaper added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  