-- Harvard Won’t Divest From Fossil Fuels, Faust Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-10-03T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/harvard-fossil-fuels.html
Harvard University , the world’s
richest school, won’t sell its investments in fossil-fuel
companies amid pressure from students, President Drew Faust said
in a letter released today.  “I do not believe, nor do my colleagues on the
Corporation, that university divestment from the fossil fuel
industry is warranted or wise,” Faust said in the  letter ,
referring to Harvard Corporation, the school’s governing board.
“The endowment is a resource, not an instrument to impel social
or political change.”  Students at more than 300 schools in the U.S. have formed
groups in the past year seeking to pressure colleges to divest
from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , BP Plc and about 200 other companies
with the largest reserves of oil, gas and coal. While some
smaller institutions such as Unity College in Unity,  Maine , and
Hampshire College in Amherst,  Massachusetts , endorsed the
campaign, most have declined.  The movement was started by a group formed by environmental
writer  Bill McKibben  called 350.org, a reference to the 350
parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that
scientists say is the safe limit for humanity. In the wake of
 Hurricane Sandy , which some blamed on climate change, McKibben
led a 21-city tour last November seeking to enlist students in a
college divestment campaign.  Largest Endowment  “It took Harvard five years to figure out it didn’t want
to be involved with apartheid in  South Africa ,” McKibben said
in an e-mail, referring to the divestment campaign in the 1970s
and 1980s aimed at companies doing business in South Africa,
before that nation ended its regime of race-based laws. “One
hopes that the efforts of students, faculty and alumni mean this
will happen more quickly.”  Harvard has the world’s largest university endowment,
valued at $32.7 billion, and counts on the fund to finance more
than a third of its operating budget, Faust said. The university
can more effectively address climate change through teaching and
research while reducing greenhouse gas emissions on the campus
in Cambridge, Massachusetts, she said.  Faust also said divestment “is likely to have a negligible
financial impact on the affected companies,” because
universities own a very small fraction of the market
capitalization.  “Such a strategy would diminish the influence or voice we
might have with this industry,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  