-- U.S. Stocks Rise on Budget Optimism as Treasuries Drop
-- B y   A u b r e y   P r i n g l e   a n d   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-10-04T20:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/asian-futures-slip-on-debt-limit-concern-as-crude-slides.html
U.S. stocks rose, paring a weekly
decline in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) , as optimism grew
that lawmakers would reach a deal to end America’s budget
standoff. Treasuries and gold fell while Italian bonds advanced.  The S&P 500 gained 0.7 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , while
the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index climbed 0.1 percent. The yield on 10-year Treasuries increased four basis points to 2.65 percent.
Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped seven basis points to 4.30
percent. West Texas Intermediate oil added 0.5 percent as
Tropical Storm Karen approached the U.S. coast, while gold
futures slid 0.6 percent.  A partial U.S. government shutdown entered a fourth day
amid wrangling by lawmakers over the budget and debt limit.  Bill
Gross  of Pacific Investment Management Co. and BlackRock Inc.’s
 Larry Fink  said the deadlock will be resolved soon, limiting
damage to the economy. House Speaker  John Boehner  has been
telling fellow Republicans that he won’t allow the U.S. to
default on its debt, according to two Republican congressional
aides.  “There’s a working presumption that this is fundamentally
theater and it’s going to work itself out favorably,”
Mackintosh Pulsifer, vice chairman and chief investment officer
of Fiduciary Trust Co. International in New York, said in a
phone interview. He helps oversee $15 billion. “There will not
be a default, we’ll find some way to raise the debt ceiling. In
a few weeks it’s not going to have any impact.”  Economic Summits  The S&P 500’s rally today trimmed the weekly loss to 0.1
percent. The gauge had slumped as much as 1.3 percent for the
week through yesterday. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  ended
the five days with a 1.2 percent drop.  President  Barack Obama  canceled plans to attend two
economic summits in  Asia  next week as he remains in  Washington 
to seek an end to the government shutdown. The Treasury
Department said failure to raise the debt limit has the
potential to freeze credit markets and cause the dollar to
plunge.  Partially closing the U.S. government for one week would
probably shave 0.1 percentage point from economic growth,
according to the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
economists. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco President  John
Williams  estimated yesterday a two-week government halt would
trim 0.25 percentage point off fourth-quarter economic growth.  The shutdown delayed the release of the Labor Department’s
monthly payrolls report, which was due today. The lack of data
is making it harder for Federal Open Market Committee policy
makers to assess the health of the economy as they consider when
to start paring unprecedented monetary stimulus. Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the shortage of economic news
“would tend to make me somewhat more cautious” about reducing
the pace of bond purchases.  ‘Zero Chance’  “The taper is off the table for October, that is a silver
lining for the market,” Phil Orlando, New York-based chief
equity strategist at Federated Investors, said in a phone
interview. His firm manages about $380 billion in assets.
“Given the fact that there is no jobs data and given the fact
that we have triggered the potential breach of the debt ceiling,
in my opinion there is zero chance that the Fed is going to
commence the taper at the Oct. 29-30 FOMC meeting.”  The  S&P 500  has rallied 19 percent this year. It has  surged 
150 percent from a March 2009 low amid three rounds of Fed
stimulus and better-than-forecast corporate earnings.  Visa Inc. rose 1 percent today after a judge ruled the
company didn’t infringe a SmartMetric Inc. patent. Facebook Inc.
climbed 3.8 percent after the operator of the world’s most
popular social network said it will sell advertising on its
Instagram photo service. Union Pacific Corp. declined 1 percent
after its earnings forecast missed projections.  Twitter Inc. released its S-1 prospectus for an initial
public offering yesterday, with the document suggesting a
valuation of $12.8 billion for the microblogging website.  Europe Stocks  Today’s gain for the Stoxx 600 trimmed its retreat for the
week to 0.7 percent. Lindt & Spruengli AG jumped 3.6 percent to
its highest since 2008 after saying it will buy back shares
worth about 450 million Swiss francs ($498 million). Nokian
Renkaat Oyj sank 7.6 percent, the most in almost a year, as the
Finnish tiremaker cut its earnings forecasts.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index added 0.3 percent, gaining
for the fourth straight day. The gauge climbed 0.8 percent this
week. Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 0.4 percent after a report
showed the  trade surplus  rose more than analysts estimated as
exports jumped.  Treasuries snapped a two-day advance as the U.S. prepared
to auction $64 billion of notes and bonds next week.  Treasury Rates  Money managers are getting out of Treasuries maturing
closest to the debt-ceiling deadline on Oct. 17 and buying
longer-maturity bills, yields indicate. One-month rates climbed
as high as 0.16 percent yesterday, while rates on three-month
bills were 0.02 percent, the biggest inversion of the  spread 
since September 2008.  Corporate bond issuance slid 53 percent this week in Europe
to the least in seven weeks, while U.S. sales tumbled 81
percent.  Unibail-Rodamco SE (UL) , Europe’s largest publicly traded
property owner, and Banco Popular Espanol SA were among
companies issuing 8.3 billion euros of notes this week, the
least since the period ended Aug. 17, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Dollar-denominated offerings  fell to $10.9 billion, the
least since the period ended Aug. 30.  Italian Politics  Italy’s 10-year securities climbed for the third time in
four days as Prime Minister Enrico Letta won a confidence vote
in parliament. Silvio Berlusconi’s future in Italian politics is
hanging in the balance after a Senate panel voted today to
recommend expelling the former prime minister from the upper
house, following an August tax-fraud conviction.  Spain’s yield dropped four basis points to 4.20 percent
today and Portugal’s declined 21 basis points to 6.34 percent,
the lowest since Aug. 20.  Australia ’s dollar rose 0.4 percent to 94.34 U.S. cents as
traders bets reflected increased expectations the central bank
won’t cut borrowing costs this year. The pound dropped against
15 of 16 of its major counterparts, falling 0.9 percent to
$1.6014.  Gold fell for the fourth time this week in New York,
sliding 0.6 percent, amid speculation that the impact of the
federal shutdown will be limited. Holdings in global exchange-traded products yesterday reached the lowest since May 2010,
wiping about $60.6 billion from the value of the assets this
year. Bullion prices dropped 22 percent in 2013 as some
investors lost faith in the metal as a store of value.  ‘Chasing Equities’  “Money seems to be chasing equities,” Phil Streible, a
senior commodity broker at R.J. O’Brien & Associates in  Chicago ,
said in a telephone interview. “Gold does not seem to be
attracting the safe-haven premium.”  Copper futures rose for the second time in three days,
gaining 1 percent. Inventories tracked by the London Metal
Exchange slid for a 22nd day, to 525,925 metric tons, the lowest
since March 15.  West Texas Intermediate increased 0.5 percent to $103.84.
Tropical Storm Karen pushed through the  Gulf of Mexico  to the
U.S. coast, threatening crude production in the region. Karen
will make landfall early Oct. 6 on the southeastern tip of
 Louisiana , according to the National Hurricane Center.  Robusta coffee rallied as much as 3.1 percent after
stockpiles in warehouses monitored by NYSE Liffe declined 19
percent in the past two weeks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aubrey Pringle in New York at 
 apringle1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Barinka in New York at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  