-- Asia-Pacific Heads to Hash Out Trade Deal as Clock Ticks
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2013-10-04T05:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/asia-pacific-heads-to-hash-out-trade-deal-as-clock-ticks.html
Asia-Pacific leaders will seek
momentum on talks for a sweeping 12-nation trade pact when they
meet in Bali in coming days, trying to overcome concessions
sought by countries that threaten to further delay completion.  President  Barack Obama  canceled plans to attend the  Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation  summit due to the U.S. government’s
partial shutdown, with Secretary of State  John Kerry  instead
leading the U.S. delegation, White House spokesman  Jay Carney 
said. The list of demands from parties to the talks, amid
pressure to protect key industries, means the U.S. will be hard
pressed to show progress.  Japan ’s defense of its farming industry,  Malaysia ’s
proposal to keep tobacco control measures out of the deal, and
the impact of currency manipulation on markets are among issues
impeding progress on an accord the U.S. calls the  cornerstone  of
its economic policy in the region. At stake for member economies
amid an uneven global recovery is the prospect of faster growth
as their goods and services find new and bigger markets.  “Each country has its own different views and there will
be a way forward, even if it’s a struggle,” said Hiroshi Imazu,
a Japanese ruling party lawmaker who represents an agriculture-heavy constituency on the main northern island of Hokkaido. “If
our views are not accepted, we can withdraw,” Imazu said.  Trade officials from the nations participating in the
Trans-Pacific Partnership met in Bali today before the leaders
summit. There have been 19 rounds of talks, and they will submit
a status report to leaders, who have asked country teams to
complete negotiations this year, the U.S. Trade Representative’s
Office said in September.  “We have been told by the U.S. negotiating team that they
are planning to hold the TPP leaders’ meeting as scheduled,”
Japan’s Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Hiroshige Seko told
reporters at the prime minister’s residence today.  Asia Pivot  Obama’s absence may add to growing anxiety in Asia that the
U.S. is too preoccupied with internal political challenges to
pursue its so-called “Asia pivot,” the president’s second-term
foreign-policy priority designed to enhance U.S. standing in a
region that’s adjusting to China’s economic and military
emergence. As part of that push, the U.S. will base 69 percent
of its naval fleet in the Pacific by 2020, up from about 50
percent.  The free-trade zone would link an area with about $26
trillion in annual economic output. Nations forging the Pacific
accord are Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia,
Mexico,  New Zealand , Peru,  Singapore , the U.S. and  Vietnam .  Political Will  “The political will is very high, but like any trade
agreement there are domestic sectors for and against the deal,”
said  Sanchita Basu Das , a fellow at the Institute of Southeast
Asian Studies in Singapore whose research interests include
trade policy. “They are about 90 percent done on the TPP, and
it’s more feasible that we may see something in the first
quarter of 2014. I’m not expecting much to come out from this
week’s meeting.”  Delays in finalizing the agreement -- the initial target
was the Bali summit -- could exacerbate the effects of a
slowdown in China and India that is reverberating across the
region, with the  Asian Development Bank  lowering its forecasts
for growth this year and next. The road to a “robust and
comprehensive” recovery remains bumpy, International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said this month.  “The TPP will be beneficial when growth is slow,” said
Eduardo Pedrosa, secretary-general of the Pacific Economic
Cooperation Council in Singapore.  Japan’s Farmers  All the TPP countries are members of APEC,  set up in 1989 
to advance free trade and investment in an area that accounts
for half of the world’s total gross domestic product and 45
percent of global commerce.  The TPP could yield global annual gains of $295 billion by
2025, according to estimates by Peter Petri and Michael Plummer
in a June 2012  policy brief  published by the Peterson Institute
for International Economics.  “Good trade agreements typically force some changes in
policy, but at the same time open up new commercial
opportunities,” New Zealand Trade Minister Tim Groser said in a
speech at the  National Press Club  of Japan in Tokyo on Sept. 27.
“TPP will be no exception.”  In the way of TPP negotiators are millions of small farmers
in Japan, who oppose any deal that might undermine protection
for meat, wheat, sugar, dairy and goods like rice, which has a
tariff of 778 percent. Japan became the latest nation to join
the talks when it formally entered discussions in July.  Japanese negotiators have offered to eliminate tariffs on
92 percent of products, possibly including some sensitive
agricultural goods, the Nikkei newspaper said today without
saying where it got the information. Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yoshihide Suga told reporters in Tokyo today that “there is no
truth to that whatsoever.”  Automaker Concerns  U.S. automakers have expressed concern about Japan’s
economic policies and said the TPP should include provisions to
prevent currency manipulation. The American Automotive Policy
Council, an industry group that represents Ford Motor Co.,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC, has said it won’t
support the TPP unless it contains a currency provision.  “Failing to address currency manipulation in the TPP would
mean U.S. companies and workers will end up paying dearly for
expanded trade in the Asia-Pacific region,”  Scott Paul ,
president of the Alliance for American Manufacturing, said last
month.  Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has said the U.S.
will give the nation “differential” treatment in negotiating
the accord. Other members should be flexible and take into
account the low level of development of Vietnam, Dung said in a
Sept. 27 interview.  Ethnic Malays  In Malaysia, reluctance to change policies that favor
ethnic Malays and indigenous people for some state contracts
were among issues that led to a previous breakdown in
negotiations with the U.S. on a free trade pact, alongside the
U.S.’s decision to review its overall stance on bilateral deals.
The Southeast Asian nation said in August it will review the
costs and benefits of joining the TPP.  Malaysia won’t “sell its soul” for the sake of joining
the TPP, Prime Minister Najib Razak said last month.  China, the second-biggest economy among APEC members, is
not a member of the TPP. The country may not yet be ready to
implement the types of obligations currently negotiated in the
accord such as  labor laws , increased transparency in economic
activities and environmental regulations, Das of the Institute
of Southeast Asian Studies said.  Shanghai Zone  Chinese officials last month inaugurated a new free trade
zone in Shanghai as the country experiments with loosened
capital controls and other reforms to sustain growth. The 11-square-mile area is a testing ground for free-market policies
that Premier  Li Keqiang  has signaled he may later implement more
broadly.  “Within the Shanghai Free Trade Zone or other similar
arrangements, a more efficient and open business environment
could also pave the way to potential access to multilateral
trade agreements such as TPP one day,” Morgan Stanley
economists led by Helen Qiao said in a research note last month.  Li will attend meeting with leaders of  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  later this month and will also make
visits to Thailand and Vietnam, China’s Ministry of Foreign
Affairs spokesman Qin Gang said today in a statement on its
website.  Philippine Prices  In Asia today, the  Philippines  reported  inflation
 accelerated in September, while Malaysia’s exports grew more
than economists estimated in August. The  Bank of Japan  refrained
from adding to unprecedented monetary stimulus after business
confidence surged and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe decided the
economy was strong enough to weather a sales-tax increase.  Europe’s producer prices probably fell in August from a
year earlier, a Bloomberg survey showed. Iceland is due to
release its  trade balance  for September.  As negotiations on the Trans-Pacific Partnership continue,
other challenges are yet to come, Das said.  “All the voices that you hear now are going to be even
louder when it comes to the ratification process in the
parliament of each country,” she said. “That’s the crucial
time for the TPP.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net ;
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  