-- Asia Stocks Rise on China Services; Investors Watch U.S.
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-03T10:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/asian-stocks-rise-as-investors-watch-u-s-shutdown-talks.html
Asian  stocks  rose after a gauge of
 China ’s services industries jumped to a six-month high and as
investors watched for progress on ending a budget impasse that
has shut down the U.S. government.  Sands China Ltd., a unit of billionaire  Sheldon Adelson ’s
Las Vegas casino company, advanced 3.9 percent after its equity
rating was raised at DBS Vickers Hong Kong Ltd. China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. surged 8.4 percent on a report fees for calls
to other networks will be cut. SoftBank Corp. rose 4 percent,
overtaking Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. as  Japan ’s No. 2
company by value. Leighton Holdings Ltd. slumped 10 percent on a
report former executives knew of alleged corruption at
 Australia ’s biggest builder.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index added 0.4 percent to 139.26 as
of 7:34 p.m. in  Tokyo , with eight of 10 industry groups on the
measure rising.  “Investor sentiment is holding well,” Benjamin Tam, a
Hong Kong-based portfolio manager at IG Investment Ltd., which
oversees about $1.5 billion, said by telephone. “People are
still optimistic about  China’s economy . Having said that, we are
waiting on results of fiscal talks in the U.S., which is the
biggest uncertainty.”  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index  advanced 1 percent after data
showed China’s non-manufacturing Purchasing Managers Index
climbed in September to 55.4 from 53.9 in August, adding to
signs that the world’s second-biggest economy will rebound after
a two-quarter slowdown. Financial markets in China are closed
for holidays until Oct. 8.  South Korea ’s market was also shut
today.  Regional Gauges  Japan’s  Topix index  slipped 0.1 percent, falling a fifth
day to cap its longest losing streak since November. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent, while New Zealand’s NZX 50
Index was little changed. Taiwan’s Taiex index jumped 1.7
percent.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index lost 0.3 percent.  The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 0.4 percent,
erasing earlier losses of as much as 1 percent, after Moody’s
Investors Service raised the country’s credit rating to
investment grade.  India ’s S&P BSE Sensex Index climbed 2
percent.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.3
percent today after the measure slipped 0.1 percent yesterday.
The U.S. government has been in partial shutdown for two days
after lawmakers failed to agree on a  federal budget . President
 Barack Obama  summoned the top four leaders of Congress to the
White House for the first high-level talks on reopening the
government and raising the debt ceiling.  Debt Ceiling  Obama’s meeting with Congress leaders “is something he
should’ve done weeks ago, but it is a positive development,”
Matthew Sherwood, head of investment markets research in Sydney
at Perpetual Investments, which manages about $25 billion, said
by telephone. “Investors have been factoring the shutdown in
progressively and what they haven’t factored in yet is delaying
the resolution to the debt ceiling, and so my expectation is
that volatility will pick up.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied 6.4 percent in
September, the biggest monthly advance since January 2012. The
measure  traded  at 13.5 times estimated earnings, compared with
15.3 for the S&P 500 and 14.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Japan’s Topix climbed 37 percent this year, the most among
developed markets, amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
the  Bank of Japan  can lead the country out of deflation through
unprecedented monetary easing.  Casino Shares  Gaming shares advanced after data from Macau’s Gaming
Bureau showed casino revenue jumped 21 percent in September from
a year earlier. Shares also climbed after visitors to Macau on
Oct. 1-2 rose 14 percent from a year earlier amid National Day
celebrations.  Sands China rose 3.9 percent to HK$50.60, the third-biggest
gain on the Hang Seng Index, after DBS Vickers raised its rating
to buy from hold and boosted its 12-month target price to
HK$57.10.  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , the casino operator
controlled by billionaire Lui Che-woo, advanced 5.1 percent to
HK$58.70.  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest mobile carrier,
soared 8.4 percent to HK$13.12. China Telecom Corp. increased
7.6 percent to HK$4.12. Interconnection fees for calls from the
companies’ networks to China Mobile Ltd. may be halved to 0.03
 yuan  per minute, Economy & Nation Weekly reported today, citing
an unidentified person. China Mobile slumped 0.7 percent to
HK$86.50.  SoftBank jumped 4 percent to 7,530 yen. Billionaire
Chairman Masayoshi Son is forecasting record domestic earnings
this year as he accelerates the addition of new subscribers and
after buying a controlling stake in Sprint Corp. With today’s
gain, the mobile phone operator’s market value exceeded that of
Mitsubishi UFJ to become Japan’s second-largest company by value
after Toyota Motor Corp.  Leighton Allegations  Leighton Holdings tumbled 10 percent to A$17.54, the most
in more than two years. The builder allegedly paid bribes to win
contracts, conduct that former chief executive officers Wal King
and  David Stewart  were aware of, the Age newspaper reported. The
reports quote from an alleged memo from Stewart dated Nov. 23,
2010. Former Leighton International Managing Director David
Savage said he and King knew of an alleged A$42 million bribe
paid in relation to work in  Iraq , the newspaper quoted the memo
as saying.  King denied the allegation and a spokeswoman for Stewart
declined to comment. Leighton, which has been under
investigation since at least February 2012, said the revelations
weren’t new.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  