-- Astex Shareholder Sarissa Says It Won’t Tender Shares
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-10-03T00:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/astex-shareholder-sarissa-says-it-won-t-tender-shares-2-.html
Astex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ASTX) 
shareholder Sarissa Capital Management LP won’t tender its 5
percent stake to Otsuka Holdings Co. and questioned the
integrity of the $886 million sale process.  “The recently announced merger transaction with Otsuka
Pharmaceutical significantly undervalues Astex and therefore we
do not intend to tender our shares,” Sarissa’s  Alex Denner  and
Richard Mulligan wrote today in an open letter. The investors
said they plan to contact other potential bidders.  Astex, maker of the blood-cancer drug Dacogen, said Sept. 5
it accepted a bid of $8.50 a share from Tokyo-based Otsuka. The
shares have closed higher than the offer on all but three days
since, indicating investors expect a higher price. Dublin,
California-based Astex rose 1.5 percent to $8.63 at the close of
New York trading.  Sarissa, the fund Denner started with Mulligan after
leaving the firm of billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  in 2011,
contended in the letter that Astex didn’t reach out to all
potential acquirers and may have sought a deal that preserved
the company’s structure rather than drawing the highest price
for shareholders.  Astex’s board negotiated with Otsuka and spurred the
Japanese drugmaker to raise its offer to $8.50 a share from an
initial bid of $7.75 a share, the company said today in a
statement. That followed a process in which Astex contacted 33
drug companies to gauge their interest in a strategic
transaction. Five companies signed non-disclosure agreements and
reviewed Astex’s financial and product information, and Otsuka
was the lone bidder, Astex said.  Board’s View  “We thoroughly examined the Otsuka offer, firmly believe
that it is in the best interests of Astex stockholders, and
unanimously recommend that stockholders tender their shares,”
Astex’s board said in the statement.  If Astex investors don’t tender enough shares by Oct. 10,
Otsuka must extend the offer for at least 10 days, Sarissa said.  “This process at least offers an opening to potential
bidders who were shut out or wary of the process to engage with
the company,” Sarissa said. “We are reaching out to potential
bidders who we believe were left out of the process.”  Astex’s pipeline includes SGI-110, which in August produced
results in a mid-stage study in acute myeloid leukemia that
drove the stock up 24 percent in one day.  s  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in  New York  at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  