-- Tata Consultancy Rises on Goldman Rating Upgrade: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-10-03T06:08:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tata-consultancy-rises-on-goldman-rating-upgrade-mumbai-mover.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS)  rose
the most in a month in Mumbai trading after  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  upgraded its rating, while  New York  City awarded the Indian
company naming rights to its annual marathon.  Tata Consultancy  advanced  as much as 4.2 percent to 2,030
rupees and traded at 2,024 rupees as of 11:12 a.m., headed for
the biggest gain since Aug. 30. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  climbed 1.3
percent and the S&P BSE India Information Technology Index, or
BSET,  rose  2.3 percent.  Goldman Sachs upgraded India’s largest software exporter to
buy from neutral, citing rising revenue compared with its peers
amid an increase in global spending on information technology
services. Economic recoveries in the U.S. and Europe, along with
a tumbling rupee that boosts repatriated revenue from overseas
sales, have triggered a 41 percent jump in the BSET this year.  Tata Consultancy “is well positioned to record sector
leading revenue in an improving demand scenario,” Goldman Sachs
said in a note dated yesterday. The firm revised its 12-month
price estimate for Tata Consultancy to 2,300 rupees.  Tata Consultancy also entered into an eight-year
partnership with the New York Road Runners to serve as lead
sponsor of the annual  New York City  Marathon beginning in 2014,
the company said in an e-mailed statement. Tata Consultancy has
served as a technology consultant for the Road Runners since
2010 and previously developed mobile applications used by
runners and spectators for the 2013 half marathon in New York,
which will be followed by a new application for forthcoming
races, according to the statement.  “We aspire to make the TCS New York City Marathon a more
technologically-enriched and socially engaged experience for all
its participants and fans across the world, using our core
technology skills,” Natarajan Chandrasekaran, chief executive
officer of Tata Consultancy, said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  