-- Aussie Holds Drop as N.Z. Dollar Weakens Amid U.S. Shutdown Woes
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-03T06:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/aussie-holds-drop-as-n-z-dollar-weakens-amid-u-s-shutdown-woes.html
Australia ’s dollar remained lower and
New Zealand’s currency declined as demand for higher-yielding
assets waned amid concern a partial shutdown of the U.S.
government will hamper global economic growth.  New Zealand’s kiwi strengthened earlier in Asian trading
after central bank Governor Graeme Wheeler said the nation’s
interest rates may rise faster than policy makers currently
project. U.S. House Speaker John Boehner said President  Barack
Obama  refused to negotiate in a meeting with top congressional
leaders about the shutdown.  “The longer the U.S. government is shut down, the bigger
the impact on gross domestic product,” said  Besa Deda , the
chief economist at St. George Bank Ltd. in Sydney. “It does
provide a weaker global growth backdrop for the Aussie dollar,
and that’s negative for the currency in a broader sense.”  The Australian dollar was at 93.94 U.S. cents as of 4:41
p.m. in Sydney after falling 0.1 percent yesterday to 93.85. New
Zealand’s currency dropped 0.1 percent to 83.21 U.S. cents after
earlier gaining 0.1 percent.  Australia’s  10-year (GACGB10)  government bond yield was little
changed at 3.94 percent. New Zealand’s two-year  swap rate , a
fixed payment made to receive floating rates, held at 3.44
percent.  Obama met with congressional leaders yesterday in the first
high-level discussion since the federal government began a
partial shutdown on Oct. 1. Republicans have been trying to get
Obama to the negotiating table and to back off from his
insistence on a short-term spending bill and debt-limit increase
without policy conditions.  Economic Impact  A partial shutdown of the U.S. government lasting one week
would probably shave 0.1 percentage point from growth in the
world’s biggest economy, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, with the costs
accelerating if the closing persists.  Australia’s dollar erased losses of as much as 0.2 percent
after government data showed a  services-industry index  for
 China , the nation’s biggest trading partner, climbed to a six-month high. HSBC Holdings Plc raised its 2013 growth forecast
for China, the world’s second-biggest economy, to 7.7 percent
from 7.4 percent previously, according to a report today.  “Chinese data has been supportive for the Australian
dollar,” said Divya Devesh, a foreign-exchange analyst in
Singapore at Standard Chartered Plc. “But what is more likely
to drive the Aussie, in the near term at least, is going to be
global risk appetite given what’s happening in the U.S.”  Forecast Change  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  now sees the Reserve Bank of
Australia cutting borrowing costs in February and May, Chief
Economist Bill Evans wrote in e-mailed note today. Westpac
previously predicted a 25-basis-point reduction in November and
another one in February.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a 47 percent chance the RBA will cut its benchmark to 2.25
percent or lower by its Feb. 4 gathering.  The Aussie has fallen 8.7 percent this year versus nine
other developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, the second-worst performance
within the gauges. The kiwi has advanced 2.7 percent.  The Reserve Bank of New Zealand expects its benchmark
interest rate to rise to about 4.5 percent by early 2016 from a
record-low 2.5 percent currently, Governor Wheeler wrote in an
article on the central bank’s website today. The central bank
has introduced limits on property lending to slow increases in
house prices.  “We are keen to see house-price inflation moderate
significantly,” according to the article. “If the loan-to-value speed limit is unable to slow house-price inflation,
larger increases in the official cash rate would be required.”
There’s a 91 percent chance the RBNZ will raise its key rate to
2.75 percent or higher by June, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in  Singapore  at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  