-- Bakken Crude Slides to 15-Month Low as Refinery Work Cuts Demand
-- B y   E l i o t   C a r o o m   a n d   D a n   M u r t a u g h
-- 2013-10-03T20:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bakken-crude-slides-to-15-month-low-as-refinery-work-cuts-demand.html
Bakken crude weakened to the lowest
level in more than 15 months as Canadian light oil production
increased and refineries shut units for repairs.  The  North Dakota  oil delivered in Clearbrook, Minnesota,
slid $2 to a discount of $12.50 a barrel versus U.S. benchmark
West Texas Intermediate at 4:27 p.m.  New York  time, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, its lowest level since June 29,
2012. Bakken is a light, sweet crude that is shipped by pipeline
to refiners in the mid-continent and by rail to plants along the
coasts.  Output at the Syncrude upgrader in  Alberta , which converts
oil sands bitumen into light, sweet synthetic crude, rose 39
percent to 291,000 barrels a day in September from the previous
month as it ramped up after maintenance,  Canadian Oil Sands Ltd (COS) ,
the project’s largest owner, said Oct. 1.  Husky Energy Inc. (HSE)  and
 Suncor Energy Inc. (SU)  both planned to finish maintenance at
Canadian upgraders this month.  Northern Tier Energy LP (NTI) ’s St. Paul Park refinery in
Minnesota shut the larger of two crude units after a Sept. 22
fire. The unit is expected to be down three to four weeks, the
company said in a written statement.  The price of Bakken at Clearbrook fell to the biggest
discount since February 2012 versus  posted prices for Bakken
crude  in the field in North Dakota, an indicator of what
shippers will pay producers, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The spread has dropped more than $5 a barrel since Sept. 30,
when it was at a premium of $2.64 a barrel, to a discount of
$2.88 a barrel today.  Bakken-Brent  The discount of Bakken posted prices compared with Dated
Brent, the benchmark for crude imports from Europe, widened to
$19.58 a barrel Sept. 26, before narrowing to $15.08 today. It
costs about $12 to ship crude by rail to the Delaware City,
Delaware, refinery from North Dakota, PBF Energy said last
month.  “Because the arbitrage is so open, people can afford to
start bidding up the price in western North Dakota,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston.
“People are paying a price that makes sense to them so they can
rail it out of the location, rather than have someone ship it by
pipeline to Clearbrook.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliot Caroom in New York at 
 ecaroom@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Murtaugh in Houston at 
 dmurtaugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  