-- Bali’s New Airport Terminal Shuts as World Leaders Hosted
-- B y   B e r n i   M o e s t a f a   a n d   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o
-- 2013-10-04T03:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bali-s-airport-shuts-as-air-force-one-hosted-for-summit.html
Bali’s new international terminal is
opening for service by shutting down for visiting world leaders.  China’s President Xi Jinping and  Russia ’s Vladimir Putin
are among the heads of state due to land in the Indonesian beach
resort island this weekend for the Asia-Pacific Economic
Cooperation meeting. That’s prompted a day-time closure of the
airport for four days and some 300 flight cancellations, two
weeks after trials started on the $245 million facility.  The shutdown affects 17,000 travelers a day, who generate
more than $5 million in daily tourism business for one of Asia’s
most popular destinations. Ngurah Rai airport’s new wave-shaped
terminal symbolizes Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s drive to showcase modern facilities for the summit,
even as his government struggles to build infrastructure in
other parts of the world’s biggest archipelago.  “It’s not surprising that he’s leaving nothing to chance
with the APEC summit,” said Greg Fealy, an associate professor
at the Australian National University in Canberra.  Yudhoyono inspected the new terminal on Sept. 24, after it
opened for trial runs in time for the Miss World beauty pageant
contest in Bali last month. It will boost capacity to 16 million
international travelers a year from 7.7 million, and 9.4 million
domestic travelers from 1.5 million, according to airport
operator PT Angkasa Pura I.  The APEC summit runs Oct. 5 through Oct. 8. President
 Barack Obama  canceled plans to attend the summit as the fiscal
standoff with congressional Republicans keeps the U.S.
government partially shuttered. Ngurah Rai airport will be
closed during day time for four days, according to its website.  Storm Water  The shiny new terminal has a wave-shaped roof designed to
recycle storm water. Inside, travelers described a chaotic
immigration and baggage collection process while gardens outside
remained unfinished.  Yudhoyono also opened a toll road that cuts the time it
takes to get from the airport to Nusa Dua where the summit will
be held. Nusa Dua is already home to luxury hotels such as  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H)  and Westin Hotels & Resorts.  “We are grateful for APEC, it’s a gift from the sky,”
Ngurah Wijaya, Chairman of Bali Tourism Board, said by phone.
“Of course there will be some impact from the closure.”  Bali attracted about 6.2 million foreign and domestic
visitors last year, generating an annual tourism revenue of
$1.87 billion, according to data from the Bali Tourism Board. In
comparison, Phuket received 4 million tourists in 2012, the
Phuket News said on its website on Sept. 4, citing Tourism
Authority of Thailand data.  Tourist Arrivals  PT Garuda (GIAA)  Indonesia, the nation’s state airline, canceled
139 domestic and international flights for next week linking
Bali, spokesman Pujobroto said Oct. 1.  AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  scrapped 81,
Kompas reported on its website Oct. 1.  PT Lion Mentari Airlines scrubbed 65 percent of its flights
to Bali, the carrier said in an e-mail. Singapore-based  Tiger
Airways Holdings Ltd. (TGR)  lost about eight flights due to the
closure.  “It will be a loss to the local community because they are
very dependent on tourism, and there’s going to be very tight
security,” said Shukor Yusof, a Singapore-based aviation
analyst at Standard & Poor’s. “I don’t think anyone would want
to be there during that time.”  Indonesia was concerned about the impact of the airport’s
closure and therefore notified airlines in advance, Tourism
Minister Mari Pangestu told Bloomberg TV  Indonesia  on Oct. 1.  Multiplier Effect  The event will still bring in thousands of delegates and
have a multiplier effect longer-term through the new
infrastructure and image projected to APEC nations, which
account for 54 percent of the world economy, Pangestu said.  “You’re telling the world Indonesia is a safe place,
Indonesia is capable of organizing a very important
international event,” Pangestu said. “It has a lot of very
positive and intangible impact on the country branding of
Indonesia, that you will see the benefit, not now, but in the
years to come.”  That’s no solace for Lisa Coombes, a tourist from Derby,
U.K. who arrived Sept. 20 with her 2-year-old son in Bali.
Queues were long for immigration and bags were arriving late, so
it took her more than an hour to get out of the airport.  “It was really chaotic and the last thing we needed when
you have a very cranky child,” said Coombes, 32. “I’ve not
heard of APEC, but I see the banners everywhere. It’s good that
we won’t be here when it starts.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Berni Moestafa in Jakarta at 
 bmoestafa@bloomberg.net ;
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  