-- Banks File Living Wills Outlining Plans to Dismantle
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-03T19:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/banks-file-living-wills-outlining-plans-to-dismantle.html
Eleven banks including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  envision shareholders absorbing
losses, managers getting fired and assets being sold off as the
firms filed “living wills” designed to ensure an orderly wind-down if they should ever go bankrupt.  Goldman Sachs gave regulators three scenarios in the public
portion of its document posted today, with a preferred option
centered on forgiving intercompany debts to help units wind down
smoothly even during an economic crisis. Citigroup’s
alternatives included asset sales and closing units, adding that
its senior management and board “would presumably be replaced
at the behest of regulators.”  The two New York-based banks were among 11 of the largest
lenders, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. and  Bank of America Corp. , to submit revised plans this
week after the global banks failed to convince regulators last
year that they could go broke without destroying the rest of the
system. The solutions include “bail-ins,” which typically
involve converting unsecured debt to equity and wiping out
common shareholders.  Financial Crisis  Public summaries were posted on regulatory websites today,
with more detailed private versions for examiners. The living
wills are supposed to help ensure that taxpayer money won’t be
needed in any repeat of the 2008 financial crisis.  If the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Federal Reserve
aren’t satisfied that each firm has plotted a safe demise, the
companies could be forced to restructure or sell off pieces. The
2010 Dodd-Frank Act gave regulators that power when it required
banks to write these plans, which are meant to describe safe
bankruptcies and combat perceptions that financial giants are
too big to fail.  “Our preferred strategy, which is new this year in light
of the broader range of strategies that has been encouraged by
the regulatory guidance, would involve  recapitalizing  our two
major broker-dealers, one in the U.S. and one in the U.K., and
several other material entities, through the forgiveness of
intercompany indebtedness,” said Goldman Sachs, led by Chief
Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein.  Core Businesses  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, said it had $454
billion in high-quality liquid assets as of June 30 that could
be turned quickly into cash -- up more than $100 billion from
six months earlier. Shareholders would bear most of the costs
for recapitalizing the New York-based firm, led by CEO Jamie Dimon, and the bank could successively sell off any of its 35
core businesses until reserves are adequate, JPMorgan said in
its filing.  “Recapitalization would be intended to preserve the
operation of the firm’s systemically important functions,
promptly return the systemically important and viable parts of
the firm’s business to the private sector without a lengthy
period of government control, preserve the going-concern value
of the firm for the benefit of its  creditors , and avoid the
value destruction which could result from a disorderly
liquidation,” JPMorgan said.  Bank of America, ranked second by assets, outlined
approaches that include putting the parent into Chapter 11
bankruptcy and recapitalizing “certain banking and other
operating  subsidiaries ” deemed to be “systemically significant
critical operations” that need to continue operating while the
holding company is dismantled.  Ireland, India  The bank also said it would have to deal with resolution
regimes in the U.K., Ireland,  Germany ,  Japan ,  India  and
 Singapore . Led by CEO  Brian T. Moynihan , Bank of America is
based in  Charlotte , North Carolina.  In a public plan changed only minimally from last year,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  added a phrase that it “would enter into a
Chapter 11 proceeding” as it sought to sell off stand-alone
units and quickly wind down core businesses. Buyers of the
firm’s parts could include other banks, private funds and
insurance companies.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , which is working with U.K. regulators on a
resolution plan, said the London-based company would follow the
strategy already outlined by officials in both countries --
imposing losses on creditors and adding capital at the parent
level through a bail-in.  ‘Adverse Event’  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  said that in the case of one “single,
large, adverse event,” non-U.S. assets would be transferred to
a German bridge bank and kept active, while U.S. assets would be
assumed to fail and enter resolution proceedings.  While the Frankfurt-based company assumed the exclusion of
U.S. assets from the German transfer in order to illustrate
their treatment under U.S. resolution regimes, it said it didn’t
believe this to be the probable or preferred outcome. Deutsche
Bank is Europe’s biggest investment bank by revenue.  UBS AG (UBSN) , led by CEO  Sergio Ermotti , said the Zurich-based
bank would count on a rapid orderly resolution of its most
important units, and it would focus on preserving the value of
any saleable core businesses.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  said Swiss regulators have pointed
it toward a strategy parallel to that favored by the U.S.  “A single point of entry bail-in strategy would
recapitalize CS at the top,” the bank said in its plan, which
would allow restructuring while avoiding the need to take apart
its functioning subsidiaries.  ‘Critical Operations’  State Street Corp. (STT)  offered an alternative to a sale
strategy, saying it could be possible for the Boston-based
parent to recapitalize its banking arm, allowing bank branches
and subsidiaries to avoid resolution. BNY Mellon said that in
any of its scenarios, “the core business lines and critical
operations would continue in operation in substantially the same
manner as prior to resolution.”  “You cannot create a playbook that will be followed when
the company is in trouble,” Ernie Patrikis, a former general
counsel of the  New York  Fed and alternate member of the Federal
Open Market Committee, said in an e-mailed statement. “Life
just doesn’t work like that.”  Patrikis, now a partner at White & Case LLP, said the
benefit of writing the wills is that bankers get to know their
firms better.  ‘Taxpayer Support’  “Citi has steadily built its  balance sheet  so that even in
severe stress scenarios, it could continue to operate and serve
clients without taxpayer support,” Mark Costiglio, a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement, calling it “highly
unlikely” that the resolution will ever be needed. The bank
sees this pre-planning as a way to help address “the moral
hazard of ‘too big to fail,’” he said.  The first round of living wills last year fell short of
what the Dodd-Frank law demands, according to Jim Wigand, who
stepped down this year as the FDIC official responsible for
planning for big-bank failures. Wigand said earlier this year
all the banks had more progress to make before their plans would
be credible.  Regulators said they wouldn’t rule any of the plans flawed
in the first round. This year, lenders faced a higher bar. They
needed to fix the past faults, and in April the regulators
 outlined  demands for more details on strategies for resolving
international transactions, dissolving trading connections and
maintaining liquidity.  The bank plans also must account for a troubled marketplace
where buyers for assets and operations may not be readily
available. Dodd-Frank empowered the FDIC to take a firm over and
wind it down if failure would still pose too great a threat to
be handled by bankruptcy.  These 11 banks, those with more than $250 billion in U.S.
non-bank assets, are the top tier of lenders required to file
the wills. The next group of smaller firms, including Wells
Fargo & Co., filed their first plans in July. Another cohort
with $50 billion to $100 billion in non-bank assets will file by
the end of the year.  Non-bank financial firms designated systemically risky by
the Dodd-Frank-created Financial Stability Oversight Council,
such as American International Group Inc. and Prudential
Financial Inc., also will have to file plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  