-- Berlusconi Is In Political Dock as Panel Mulls Expulsion
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-10-04T15:36:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/berlusconi-in-the-political-dock-as-panel-mulls-expulsion.html
Silvio Berlusconi’s future in Italian
politics is hanging in the balance after a Senate panel voted
today to recommend expelling the former prime minister from the
upper house, following an August tax-fraud conviction.  The panel’s recommendation will be put before the full
Senate for a final vote in the next few weeks.  The decision capped a week of turmoil in  Rome  that followed
Berlusconi’s failed bid to bring down the five-month-old
coalition he forged with Prime Minister Enrico Letta. That
effort collapsed two days ago due after lawmakers in his People
of Liberty party mutinied, led by Deputy Premier  Angelino Alfano , leaving the billionaire vulnerable to counter-attack.  Berlusconi’s ouster from the Senate “would of course
worsen the atmosphere,” Lucio Malan, a panel member and
Berlusconi ally, said yesterday in a Bloomberg Television
interview. That decision would work “against any kind of decent
relations between coalition partners,” he said.  Berlusconi’s legal troubles led to  Italy ’s latest round of
political upheaval, with Letta’s  Democratic Party  saying his
eviction is mandated by a 2012 anti-corruption law. The ex-premier’s allies and lawyers say it would be unconstitutional to
apply the statute retroactively since Berlusconi’s conviction
stems from a case initiated before the law existed.  “The life of the government and the decision of the
committee on his mandate as Senator have overlapped each other
in the last few weeks in a crescendo of turbulence,” Letta told
lawmakers Oct. 2. “The situation became unsustainable.”  6-Hour Meeting  The 23-member committee announced its decision after a 6-hour closed-door meeting that followed a public hearing in Rome.  Italy’s 10-year bond yield dropped 6 basis points at 4:54
p.m. to 4.32 percent, pushing the difference with comparable
German bunds to 247.9 basis points. The benchmark FTSE MIB index
rose 1.5 percent to 18,297.  Italy’s highest court on Aug. 1 upheld Berlusconi’s
conviction for  tax fraud , sentencing him to four years in
prison. While a Milan appeals court must still determine the
length of a public-office ban attached to that final sentence,
the Senate has already acted, due to an  anti-corruption law 
passed in December 2012 that bars anyone from seeking public
office for at least six years after receiving a prison sentence
of more than two years.  A motion to halt expulsion proceedings against Berlusconi
was rejected on Sept. 19 in a vote by the Senate committee.  Berlusconi, 77, must decide by mid-October whether to serve
his four-year sentence, which should be reduced to one year due
to a law against prison overcrowding, under house arrest or
perform community service. He’s unlikely to spend a day in jail,
also because of leniency to those older than 70.  Berlusconi maintains his innocence in all cases against
him, saying he’s the victim of a political vendetta.  Confidence Vote  Letta won a confidence vote Oct. 2 after Berlusconi pulled
his ministers from the government Sept. 28, setting off a week
of turmoil. Cracks in his PDL began to show when prominent
figures said they’d vote for the government.  The turning point came Oct. 1 when Alfano broke away from
his mentor and declared his support for Letta, 47.  Berlusconi, forced out as prime minister in 2011, brought
down his successor,  Mario Monti , in December 2012. The
fragmented parliament elected in February has been incapable of
enacting a program to pull Italy from its two-year recession.
This week’s crisis blocked the approval of economic measures
including the delay of a planned VAT increase.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  