-- Telefonica’s Alierta Gains Clout as Rival Bernabe Resigns
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i   a n d   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o
-- 2013-10-04T07:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bernabe-exit-a-win-for-telefonica-s-alierta-in-quest-for-clout.html
Franco Bernabe’s exit from  Telecom
Italia SpA (TIT)  ends a battle between two of  Europe ’s most prominent
telecommunications executives, leaving  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s Cesar Alierta a victor in his quest for control at the Italian carrier.  The departure follows a dispute over strategy with Telecom
Italia shareholders including Alierta’s Telefonica, Spain’s
biggest phone carrier, which first bought a stake in its Italian
counterpart six years ago and tightened its grip last week.  Alierta, 68, now has more power over Telecom Italia assets
from Brazil to  Italy  as the Telefonica CEO plans for more deals.
He is weighing splitting up and selling Telecom Italia’s
Brazilian assets, people familiar with the matter have said,
while continuing to expand in Europe to fend off American rivals
 AT&T Inc. (T)  and  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   “After defeating Bernabe, Alierta is now the last survivor
of the industry’s old guard,” said Luis Benguerel, an equity
trader at Interbrokers in Barcelona. “He still has a tough job
to do as the value of telecom stocks has been tremendously
destroyed.”  The exit of Bernabe, 65, who as executive chairman led
Telecom Italia the past six years, leaves a power vacuum at the
Milan-based carrier. Chief Operating Officer Marco Patuano will
assume CEO responsibilities and was given more powers
temporarily as the board seeks a new chairman. Telefonica, the
 biggest shareholder , will have influence over the choice of
leadership.  Brazil Plan  After presiding over years of stock declines and driving
Telecom Italia’s rating to the brink of junk by failing to cut
debt fast enough, Bernabe lost the confidence of Telco SpA, the
group of investors including Telefonica that  owns  22.4 percent
of the phone company, said people with knowledge of the matter.
Telecom Italia didn’t give a reason for Bernabe’s resignation.  Bernabe opposed selling Telecom Italia’s  Tim Participacoes
SA (TIMP3)  unit, Brazil’s second-largest wireless carrier, a solution
people familiar with the matter have said is favored by
Telefonica, whose Vivo unit is the country’s largest mobile
carrier.  It will now be easier for Alierta to force a sale of Tim to
local rivals Vivo,  America Movil  and Oi SA, people familiar with
the matter have said. Such a move, which would face regulatory
scrutiny, could help reduce debt at Telecom Italia. It could
also strengthen Telefonica, with a 29 percent market share in
the world’s fifth-biggest wireless market, which is helping the
Madrid-based company offset  stagnating sales  in Europe.  Acquisition Spree  A Telefonica spokesman declined to comment on acquisition
plans and Bernabe’s departure.  In Europe, increasing control over Telecom Italia gives
Telefonica more strategic options amid a wave of takeovers.
Alierta wants to focus on Telefonica’s position in  Spain , Italy,
 Germany  and the U.K., the people said, asking not to be
identified because the discussions are private.  A former banker and chairman of Spanish tobacco company
Tabacalera SA, Alierta has run Telefonica since 2000. His
acquisition spree last decade built Telefonica into a major
competitor in markets including the U.K. and Germany in addition
to its native Spain.  Still, the purchases also pushed the company’s net debt to
about 58 billion euros ($79 billion), hurting credit ratings.
That prompted the executive to turn his attention to reducing
borrowings and selling some assets.  E-Plus Takeover  Most recently, he has cemented Telefonica’s position in
Germany, where he is buying Royal KPN NV’s local business for
8.55 billion euros.  Telefonica added 0.1 percent to 11.81 euros at 10:05 a.m.
in  Madrid , valuing the company at 53.7 billion euros. The stock
 had risen  12 percent in the past year through yesterday. Telecom
Italia was little changed at 64 cents. It has lost  18 percent  in
a year, giving it a market capitalization of 11.8 billion euros.  The carriers’ conflicts of interest in Argentina and  Brazil 
have forced Telefonica representatives attending Telecom
Italia’s board meetings to leave the room during discussions
over those markets, people familiar with the matter said.  In the past weeks, tensions between Bernabe and Telecom
Italia’s largest shareholders heated up over disagreements about
measures to bolster the carrier’s finances. Bernabe, who is best
known in Italy for turning around oil company Eni SpA, sought a
capital increase to trim Telecom Italia’s debt pile, while
Telefonica was supportive of asset sales.  Debt Reduction  On Sept. 24, Telefonica agreed to boost its stake in
Telecom Italia in a $1.2 billion cash-and-stock transaction. The
Spanish carrier will increase its holding in Telco to 66 percent
initially, and partners Assicurazioni Generali SpA, Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA and Mediobanca SpA will gradually reduce their
stakes further.  While this time around Alierta is seeking deals without
ballooning the company’s debt -- Telefonica targets a reduction
to 47 billion euros by the end of this year -- an expansion
still carries risks. Some investors are concerned that an
increasing size makes Telefonica less nimble, said Daniel Lacalle, a senior portfolio manager at Ecofin Ltd. in  London .  “Telefonica’s potential expansion in Europe will make it
an even slower and more bureaucratic company,” Lacalle said.
“It’s not a matter of size but of being more competitive and
dynamic in a fast-changing industry. As phone companies
accumulate assets, they become fatter, but not stronger.”  Still, Alierta isn’t alone in believing bigger is better.
Telecommunications mergers and acquisitions have totaled about
$253 billion this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  This week Portugal Telecom SGPS SA agreed to merge with Oi
to create a carrier with almost $17 billion in sales and 100
million customers in Portuguese speaking countries. AT&T has
said it is looking for assets to expand in Europe.  “Alierta is now in the driver’s seat, but managing and
turning around Telecom Italia will be a very challenging task,”
said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at FGA/MG Valores in
Madrid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net ;
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  