-- BHP Sees Robust Commodity Demand Growth as China Urbanizes
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2013-10-03T07:14:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bhp-sees-robust-commodity-demand-growth-on-china-urbanization.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
biggest mining company, said demand for commodities will remain
robust as China, its biggest customer, transitions to a
consumption-led economy even as its growth moderates.  “Commodity demand growth will remain robust as the
fundamentals of wealth creation, demographics and urbanization
continue to drive demand for resources,”  Mike Henry , president
of BHP’s marketing and technology unit, said today in an e-mailed statement ahead of a speech in Canberra. “However, the
shifting dynamics of economic growth will challenge Australia’s
traditional understanding of core commodities.”  A gauge of China’s services industry rose to a six-month
high, data released today showed, adding to signs that the
world’s second-largest economy will sustain a rebound after a
two-quarter slowdown. Melbourne-based BHP expects China’s
economy to grow at 7 percent to 8 percent in the medium-term,
Henry said today.  “Although we expect growth rates to moderate, China will
already be building off a very large base, which will translate
favorably to commodities demand in the medium term,” Henry
said, according to speech notes. “We expect energy will also
play a growing part in China’s future commodity demand.”  Commodities associated with  food production , energy and
 consumer goods  “will see more durable demand growth” from
China, he said.  BHP gained 0.8 percent to A$35.60 at the close of trading
in Sydney. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent.  The miner has cut cash costs by $2.7 billion during fiscal
2013, Henry said.  Mining companies began driving down costs last year after
the decade-long China-led commodity price boom peaked. BHP, the
biggest seller of steelmaking coal and the third-largest iron
ore exporter, cut  capital spending  as investors pressure mining
companies to defer expansions and acquisitions. Australia is the
world’s biggest exporter of iron ore and coal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  