-- Bitcoin Prices Recover After Sliding on Silk Road Bust
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2013-10-03T23:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bitcoin-prices-recover-after-sliding-on-silk-road-bust.html
The price of Bitcoins recovered after
the virtual currency lost a third of its value, triggered by the
arrest of the operator of an online marketplace for drugs and
illicit goods.  One unit of the digital money was  trading  for about $117 on
the  Bitstamp Ltd.  exchange as of 7:30 p.m. in New York. Bitcoin
touched a low of $85 yesterday after charges against Ross
William Ulbricht, who runs the “Silk Road Hidden Website,”
were unsealed. He was charged in federal court in New York for
running a “sprawling black-market bazaar” where anonymous
users bought and sold illegal drugs and phony identification
documents using Bitcoins. Before that, they were worth around
$127 on the market.  The virtual currency exists as software that’s designed to
be untraceable, making it an attractive tender for those seeking
to trade anonymously via the Web. While yesterday’s plunge in
value was probably due to speculation that demand for the
digital money will shrink after the U.S. government seized the
Silk Road website, the rebound indicates that there’s still
plenty of demand for Bitcoins outside Silk Road, according to
Richard Bove, vice president of equity research at Rafferty
Capital Markets LLC.  “That’s the most fascinating thing with Bitcoin: You can
sit there and list 150 things that are wrong with it, but it
meets a need,” Bove said in an interview. “If you are an
Argentinian with high rate of inflation, you need Bitcoins. If
you are worried about the sequester and the shutdown of the
government, you might need it. They are meeting a need for a
large number of people somewhere.”  Meeting Demand  Since being introduced in 2008 by a programmer or group of
programmers going under the name of Satoshi Nakamoto, Bitcoin
has become popular way to pay for goods and services on the
Internet, with 11.8 million Bitcoins in circulation, according
to  Bitcoincharts , a website that tracks the digital currency’s
activity.  New Bitcoins can only be created by solving complex
problems embedded in the currency, which requires greater
computing power as more of the money is “minted.” Since that
limits the number of Bitcoins, their value will be propped up,
Bove said.  “I think over time, the direction will be up,” he said.
“It defies all logic, but for many users, it works.”  While Bitcoins are designed to be untraceable, that’s not
always guaranteed since most transactions leave a record of the
exchange. Although the currency can be used for illicit goods,
it’s also becoming a popular way to buy and sell legitimate
products and services, from cupcakes to Web hosting.  Growing Use  Bitstamp and several other online exchanges have emerged
where Bitcoin holders are able to trade the digital currency for
dollars, euros and other legal tender. With the growing use of
Bitcoins, driven in part by speculative demand, the currency is
 up about tenfold  over the last year, according to Bitcoincharts.  Still, there’s uncertainty over the currency’s future as
regulators and law enforcement agencies look at its uses. U.S.
prosecutors said yesterday that Ulbricht, known on Silk Road as
“Dread Pirate Roberts,” ran the site as “the most
sophisticated and extensive criminal marketplace on the
Internet” from January 2011 to September 2013. The site
generated sales of about $1.2 billion and about $80 million in
commissions for Silk Road, they said.  Ulbricht, 29, was charged with narcotics trafficking
conspiracy, computer hacking conspiracy and money laundering
conspiracy. He tried to have one user killed for attempting to
extort money from the site, prosecutors said in a criminal
complaint unsealed in  Manhattan  federal court.  Ulbricht appeared in federal court in San Francisco
yesterday, according to Julie Bolcer, a spokeswoman for
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-mg-023287; the
civil forfeiture case is U.S. v. Ulbricht, 13-cv-06919, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  