-- BlueCrest Hires Nomura Emerging Market Credit Trader Kfoury
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2013-10-03T13:44:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bluecrest-hires-nomura-s-head-of-emerging-market-credit-trading.html
BlueCrest Capital Management LLP, the
$36 billion hedge-fund firm run by former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
trader  Michael Platt , hired  Nomura Holdings (8604)  Inc.’s head of
emerging markets credit trading, Marcel Kfoury.  Kfoury, who joined Nomura in July 2009, resigned on Oct. 1
to become credit-portfolio manager for the hedge fund, he said
today in a phone call from London. He’ll be based in the U.K.
capital and will start his new post in January.  BlueCrest, the third-biggest European hedge fund, is luring
executives from rival asset managers and Wall Street banks as it
seeks to build an “investment-bank quality” trading group,
pushing traders to avoid big bets on the direction of bond
prices and instead benefit from smaller market anomalies,
according to its website. The firm has increased its assets by
about $7 billion since the end of 2011.  Kfoury will help manage part of a $2 billion  emerging
markets  fund, he said declining to be more specific. Before
joining Nomura, he worked at Deutsche Bank AG from 2005 as a
credit derivative swap trader, he said.  A spokeswoman for London-based BlueCrest, who asked not to
be identified, declined to comment when reached by Bloomberg
today. A spokesman for Nomura wasn’t immediately available.  BlueCrest earnings rose 10 percent last year on an increase
in assets. Profit before taxes climbed to $648 million from $587
million in 2011, the London-based hedge fund reported in a
filing with the U.K.’s  Companies House  on Sept. 19. Management
and performance fees increased 28 percent to $999 million on
growth in assets under management, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai at 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  