-- BMW to Halt South Africa Expansion Plans After Strikes
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2013-10-03T08:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bmw-to-halt-south-africa-expansion-plans-after-labor-strikes.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles, will stop expansion in
South Africa following labor strikes that have disrupted the
auto industry for the past two months.  “Any plans to expand our plant or our capacity further
have been put indefinitely on hold,” BMW spokesman Guy Kilfoil
said in an interview today. “Future decisions are being made
where South Africa would have been in the running. Based on the
current environment we’re definitely not. You could say things
have changed.”  South African plants belonging to carmakers including BMW,
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  were shut for three weeks
in August and September after workers went on strike to demand
higher pay. The labor dispute cost the industry as much as 700
million rand ($69.6 million) a day, according to the Automobile
Manufacturers Employers Association. About 72,000 car industry
workers from fuel stations to car components also went on
strike, causing further losses.  While BMW is maintaining its long-term plans for  Africa ’s
largest economy, the Munich, Germany-based automaker’s internal
perception of the country has changed following a wave of
strikes this year from mining to aviation companies.  “From our perspective we think the country is at a fairly
major socio-political crossroads,” Kilfoil said. “South Africa
is becoming less globally competitive in terms of wages, energy
cost, water cost. All of those things are making South Africa a
less attractive destination for foreign investment.”  South African vehicle sales fell for a second month in
September and exports dropped 75 percent as strikes hit
carmakers’ operations.  Sales fell 1.5 percent from a year earlier to 54,281, the
Pretoria-based National Association of Automobile Manufacturers
of South Africa said in an e-mailed statement on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Spillane in Johannesburg at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  