-- BOJ on Hold Until at Least 2Q, Former Board Member Mizuno Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-10-03T04:21:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/boj-on-hold-until-at-least-2q-former-board-member-mizuno-says.html
The  Bank of Japan  will wait at least
until the second quarter of 2014 before deciding whether to add
more stimulus, as it gauges the impact of an April sales-tax
increase, said  Atsushi Mizuno , a former BOJ board member.  “It is too early to judge whether additional monetary
easing will be necessary” when the levy is raised in April,
Mizuno, vice chairman at Credit Suisse AG in Tokyo and a member
of the central bank’s board from 2004 to 2009, said in an
interview yesterday. “The BOJ has said they have done enough,
and will do more if necessary, but collecting evidence
supporting the need to do more will take a lot of time.”  Most economists forecast the central bank will loosen its
policy further by June to support  Japan ’s economy in the wake of
the first sales-tax increase since 1997. While a 5 trillion yen
($51 billion) fiscal package that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe
announced this week will help cushion the blow - and led SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. to raise its economic forecast - a setback
to growth would complicate the central bank’s effort to reach a
2 percent inflation target.  Thirty-five of 36 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News 
forecast no change in policy when the BOJ wraps up a two-day
meeting tomorrow, with one predicting the central bank will
boost its purchases of Japanese real-estate investment trusts.
Twenty-six said they expect it to add to unprecedented stimulus
in the first half of 2014, the poll showed.  Corporate Sentiment  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda in April ramped up purchases of
Japanese  government bonds  and other assets, aiming to generate 2
percent inflation within about two years. The monetary base, a
measure of  money supply , rose to a record  185.6 trillion yen 
last month, the BOJ said yesterday.  The policy, known as quantitative and qualitative easing,
has helped weaken the yen about 20 percent against the dollar in
the past year, bolstering exporters’ profits.  Sentiment (JNTSMFG)  among
Japan’s big manufacturers rose in September to the highest since
the early stages of the global credit crisis in 2007, a BOJ
survey showed this week.  It may be harder next year for the central bank to keep
increasing the monetary base at the current pace, Mizuno said.
Bonds that the BOJ buys outright through market operations come
from financial institutions, which may become less inclined to
give up their JGBs in return for central  bank deposits , which
yield 0.1 percent, he said.  The yield on Japan’s benchmark 10-year government bond was
0.64 percent at 1:21 p.m. in Tokyo, while the yield on two-year
notes was 0.1 percent.  Wages Drop  In contrast to rising optimism in the corporate sector,
 consumer confidence  has fallen, as the weaker yen pushes up
prices of imported goods and energy - lifting the cost of living
for households - while wages stagnate.  A BOJ quarterly survey for September released yesterday
showed 25.8 percent of individuals said the economy will worsen
in the year ahead, up from 16.8 percent in June.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  rose 0.8 percent in
August, the fastest pace since November 2008. Regular wages
excluding overtime and bonuses marked a 15th monthly straight
drop in the same month.  While cost-push inflation is the only way to achieve the 2
percent inflation target given Japan’s potential growth rate of
around 0.5 percent, it reduces real household incomes, Mizuno
said.  “The best scenario for the BOJ is that consumer prices go
up, Abe’s popularity slides and the government decides to
negotiate with the BOJ to reduce the price stability target
toward 1 to 2 percent from the current 2 percent,” Mizuno said.
“The market understands Abe means to raise prices when he says
ending deflation, while most of households think ending
deflation means ending economic stagnation.”  Dropping Support  Support for Abe’s cabinet dropped 3 percentage points to 57
percent after he announced the sales tax increase on Oct. 1 from
the level in mid-September, according to a poll conducted by the
Mainichi newspaper.  As a BOJ board member, Mizuno pushed for interest-rate
increases before switching his position when a deepening global
financial crisis prompted the central bank to cut the benchmark
rate and start buying corporate debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  