-- Bombardier Need Grows for Jet Order From AMR’s American
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bombardier-need-grows-for-jet-order-from-amr-s-american.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s bet on winning a
plane order from  American Airlines , a deal stalled by antitrust
opposition to a merger with  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , is becoming
increasingly crucial for the regional-jet pioneer.  Three other U.S. airlines chose  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  for regional
planes this year, leaving American’s pending purchase as the
biggest, and potentially only, sale available for months.
Montreal-based Bombardier estimated the order may be for at
least 70 aircraft, including options.  “It’s the last big regional-jet order that’s out there for
quite some time,”  Chris Murray , an AltaCorp Capital analyst,
said in a telephone interview from Toronto. “If they win AMR,
they’ll be able to sustain production levels for a year or two.
If not, they’ll likely have to cut back.”  Since signing  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  to an estimated $1.85
billion deal in December, Bombardier’s regional-jet order haul
this year is just three 100-seat CRJ1000s, part of an aircraft
category the company created more than two decades ago. Embraer
has amassed more than $9 billion in business in 2013 from  United
Airlines (UAL) , SkyWest Inc. and  Republic Airways Holdings Inc. (RJET)   American’s jet purchase may have a list value of as much as
$2 billion, according to  Walter Spracklin , an RBC Capital
Markets analyst in Toronto. Carriers typically get discounts.  While Bombardier Chief Executive Officer Pierre Beaudoin
focuses on the bigger CSeries single-aisle jetliner over the
planemaker’s regional-aircraft offerings,  Brazil ’s Embraer is
pushing ahead with upgraded versions of its commuter models.  Commercial Aircraft  That competition is eroding manufacturing revenue from
Bombardier’s commercial aircraft unit while the company awaits
the entry into service of the CSeries -- which can seat as many
as 160 people -- in about a year. Last year’s total of $1.1
billion was the lowest in at least a decade, annual reports
show. Sales at the unit last year amounted to about one-quarter
of the total in Bombardier’s 2004 fiscal year.  Bombardier’s  Class B shares  fell 4.2 percent in the five
years through yesterday, trailing the 74 percent gain for the
Standard & Poor’s/Toronto Stock Exchange sub-index of Canadian
industrial companies. Shares of  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based Embraer rose 41 percent in the same period.  Aerospace sales, including regional and business jets as
well as turboprops, accounted for 51 percent of Bombardier’s
$16.8 billion in 2012 revenue. Bombardier also sells
locomotives, passenger rail cars and signaling equipment, among
other products.  Bankruptcy Case  American, which seeks to exit bankruptcy via the US Airways
merger, doesn’t control the timing of its order. The airline
said in a court filing that the U.S. Justice Department’s Aug.
13 antitrust suit to block the tie-up would delay the regional-jet purchase because financing was at risk.  It’s shopping for new planes after winning revised labor
agreements that let pilots for its regional operations fly
bigger aircraft. Regional pilots earn less than those on
domestic and international routes, giving airlines an incentive
to opt for larger planes, such as the 76-seat CRJ900 NextGen
models bought by Delta, for their commuter units.  Marc Duchesne, a spokesman for Bombardier, said he couldn’t
elaborate on the American sales campaign beyond comments last
month by Philippe Poutissou, vice president of marketing at the
commercial aircraft unit. Poutissou told an investor conference
Sept. 19 that talks were under way and that Bombardier expected
a decision “shortly.”  Spokesmen for Embraer and  Fort Worth , Texas-based American
also declined to comment.  Dwindling Demand  Bombardier’s annual reports  show that deliveries of CRJ
regional jets dropped to 14 units last year -- the lowest total
in at least 16 years -- from a high of 215 in fiscal 2004. The
jets retail for $39 million to $48 million, based on 2012 list
prices, the latest available.  Able to fly about twice as fast as turboprops, Bombardier’s
regional jets helped transform commuter airlines starting in the
1990s. Industrywide demand for the smallest models has waned
during the past decade as  jet-kerosene prices  tripled, boosting
operating costs.  “Even with an order from American, things are never going
to go back to what they were for the CRJ program,” Andreas Hoppe, vice president of Canadian equities at CIBC Global Asset
Management, said in a telephone interview from  Montreal . Still,
“They want to win that order. If they don’t get it, chances are
the production rate doesn’t stay where it is now.”  Regional Backlog  Bombardier’s backlog through June included 91 firm orders
for its CRJ family, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That was equivalent to about 55 months of production.  At 0.25, Bombardier’s book-to-bill ratio at the end of the
second quarter was the worst among the world’s four largest
makers of commercial aircraft, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The ratio, which compares orders to deliveries on a unit basis,
was 8.1 for Embraer, 3.4 for  Boeing Co. (BA)  and 2.1 for Airbus SAS.  Bombardier is one of  Canada ’s largest manufacturers. Its
aerospace division has about 21,500 employees in Canada and the
company was the country’s second-largest research and
development spender in 2011, trailing only BlackBerry Ltd.,
according to  Statistics Canada .  With Embraer introducing a revamped version of its regional
jet, Bombardier’s best hope of winning the American order may be
to compete mostly on price, said RBC Capital’s Spracklin.
Embraer’s E2 planes, due to enter service in 2018, feature
improved engines and a new wing.  Embraer Tilt  American’s  fleet  includes 213 Embraer planes and 59
Bombardier aircraft, according to the airline’s website. That
“installed base” gives Embraer an advantage in negotiating
with the carrier, said Spracklin, who recommends investors buy
Bombardier shares.  Investors such as Bob Sharpe, a vice president at Heartland
Advisors Inc. in  Milwaukee , said they don’t want Bombardier to
give away the jets just to keep its factories humming.  “It would be nice to see them win something like the AMR
order, but you don’t want to see them sacrifice returns in order
to grab something like that,” Sharpe said in a telephone
interview. Heartland oversees about $5 billion, including
Bombardier shares.  CIBC’s Hoppe said that even as he watches the American
campaign, he’s also keeping an eye on Bombardier’s efforts to
build and market its largest-ever plane, the 110- to 160-seat
CSeries.  Beaudoin, the CEO, has said he expects the CSeries to
contribute $5 billion to $8 billion a year in additional revenue
for Bombardier later this decade.  “The CSeries is Bombardier’s growth engine,” said Hoppe,
whose firm holds Bombardier stock. “The CRJ is not a growth
part of the story for Bombardier. It’s a care and maintenance
part of the story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  