-- Brazil Real Drops From Two-Week High as Moody’s Lowers Outlook
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2013-10-03T21:43:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/brazil-real-drops-from-two-week-high-as-moody-s-lowers-outlook.html
Brazil ’s real declined from its
highest level in two weeks after Moody’s Investors Service cited
rising debt and sluggish growth in lowering its outlook on the
nation’s credit rating to stable from positive.  The real dropped for the first time in four days,
depreciating 0.7 percent to 2.2069 per  U.S. dollar . The currency
rallied yesterday to 2.1917, its strongest since Sept. 18. Swap
rates on the contract due in January 2015 fell 10 basis points,
or 0.10 percentage point, to 10.17 percent today.  Brazil’s government debt will probably stay at about 60
percent of gross domestic product, higher than the 45 percent
median for its peers, Moody’s said yesterday in a statement as
it cut the outlook on the nation’s Baa2 rating, the second-lowest investment grade. The economy will grow at annual rates
of “just over” 2 percent in 2013 and 2014, Moody’s said.  “This should help restrain some of the real’s
appreciation,” Marco Antonio Caruso, an economist at Banco Pine
SA, said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “We haven’t seen any change
in the structure of Brazil’s economy, and Moody’s action is one
more sign of this.”  Moody’s also pointed to recurrent lending by the Treasury
to public banks as well as the “deterioration in reporting
quality of the government accounts” for its decision. Brazil’s
credit rating is the same as Peru, Italy and Kazakhstan and a
step below that of  South Africa ,  Mexico ,  Thailand  and  Russia .  ‘Credit Metrics’  “Even though there are signs that the Brazilian economy
may be starting to recover, Moody’s view is that, if and when
the upturn materializes, it is unlikely that it will be strong
enough to restore a positive trend in Brazil credit metrics,”
Moody’s said in its statement.  In June,  Standard & Poor’s  reduced its outlook on Brazil’s
rating from stable to negative, citing sluggish growth and
expansionary fiscal policy. S&P rates the nation the same level
as Moody’s.  Brazil’s efforts to lure private investment for
infrastructure projects and a pledge to reduce lending by state
banks help support a stable outlook on the rating,  Mauro Leos , a
sovereign analyst at Moody’s, said in a telephone interview from
 Buenos Aires .  “The first step is to restore growth to the trend of above
3 percent,” Leos said. “We’re not sure how successful it is
going to be” in attracting foreign investors to infrastructure.  Moody’s Ignored  Global bond yields showed investors ignored 56 percent of
Moody’s and 50 percent of rival Standard & Poor’s rating and
outlook changes last year, more often than not disagreeing when
the companies said governments were becoming safer or more
risky, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The real has rallied 10 percent since Aug. 22, when the
central bank announced a $60 billion intervention program to
bolster the currency and reduce the price of imports. The gain
is the biggest among all of the world’s currencies.  Policy makers will work to bring inflation as close to
target as possible next year, central bank President Alexandre
Tombini said in an interview in  London  yesterday.  Annual
inflation (BZPIIPCY)  has twice broken the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range this year.  Brazil has raised the  target lending rate  by 1.75
percentage points to 9 percent from a record low 7.25 percent in
April, the fastest pace among 49 major economies tracked by
Bloomberg. The central bank is next scheduled to meet Oct. 8-9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  