-- Bucs Cut Quarterback Freeman After Benching Him for Glennon
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-03T19:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/bucs-release-quarterback-freeman-after-benching-him-for-glennon.html
The  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  released
quarterback Josh Freeman, a former first-round draft pick who
lost his starting job to rookie Mike Glennon.  Freeman, 25, had been the Buccaneers’ starter since his
rookie year before being replaced last week by Glennon, a third-round pick in this year’s  National Football League  draft.
Freeman had completed an NFL-low 45.7 percent of his passes
during the team’s 0-3 start. Tampa Bay is now 0-4.  “We appreciate his efforts over the past five seasons, but
we felt this was in the best interests of both Josh and the
Buccaneers,” General Manager Mark Dominik said in a statement.  Freeman’s release comes after the Buccaneers made
unsuccessful attempts to trade him,  ESPN reported , citing
unidentified people familiar with the situation.  Tampa Bay  will have to pay his remaining $6.2 million in
salary for this season, according to ESPN. As an unrestricted
free agent, he can sign with any NFL team at an additional
salary on top of his termination pay from the Buccaneers.  Freeman helped the Buccaneers to a 10-6 record in his
second NFL season, completing more than 61 percent of his passes
with 25 touchdowns and six interceptions. He threw 22
interceptions the following season as Tampa Bay went 4-12 and
last year had his completion percentage drop to 54.8 with 17
interceptions as the Buccaneers finished 7-9.  Freeman missed the team’s Sept. 2 photo shoot less than a
week before their opening game and was fined more than $35,000
by the club last week for multiple violations, the Tampa Bay
Tribune reported. He had three fines of $10,410, the newspaper
said, two for missing team meetings and the third for conducting
an unauthorized interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  