-- Casinos Co-Opt Timberlake Movie in Push for Online Poker
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/casinos-co-opt-timberlake-movie-in-push-for-online-poker.html
U.S. casinos are seizing on a Justin Timberlake movie about the perils of unregulated online gambling
to revive the industry’s stalled attempt to legalize Internet
poker nationwide.  “Runner Runner,” from Twentieth Century Fox, opens
tomorrow and stars Timberlake as a Princeton University grad
student who believes he’s been swindled after gambling away his
tuition money. The American Gaming Association, with members
 Caesars Entertainment Corp. (CZR)  and  MGM Resorts International (MGM) ,
bought ads on Google, Facebook, Twitter and Imdb.com, the film
website, calling for a national law. The message: If you bet on
the Web, you risk losing your shirt to unregulated operators.  “Online gambling is here. It’s happening,” the ad  reads ,
as ominous music plays in the background. “Let’s create a
regulated market in the U.S. that keeps the bad guys out and
lets players play ... safely.”  By highlighting the dangers of Internet wagering, the
industry seeks to rekindle legislation that would let it
dominate in the U.S. The group has backed measures that would at
first grant only existing casinos rights to offer online
gambling. They have also backed language that would limit online
play to poker, protecting their more-profitable blackjack,
roulette and slot-machine businesses in casinos.  New Jersey ,  Nevada  and  Delaware  have already legalized
online gambling for residents and visitors. So far, that has
resulted in a patchwork of rules and no betting across state
lines. A federal law would protect consumers, prevent underage
gambling, help people with gambling problems and regulate Indian
casinos, the group said on its  website.   ‘Smoke-Filled’  Illegal offshore gambling websites took in roughly $2.6
billion from U.S. players last year, according to Geoff Freeman,
president of the American Gaming Association, which represents
the $37 billion industry. The business lacks proper oversight,
he said.  The association’s online media campaign is designed to get
online players to push Congressional representatives for federal
legislation, Freeman said.  “ Washington  is changing,” Freeman said in an interview.
“There’s less negotiating in the dark of night in smoke-filled
rooms. We have to take other approaches.”  Casinos have lobbied unsuccessfully for a U.S. online poker
law. With two bills stalled, the group took a campaign-style
approach to raising awareness, buying ads that pop up when
people search for “Runner Runner,” Freeman said.  ‘Engage Players’  “The time has come for the association to be more
proactive, more zealous in telling our story,” Freeman said at
a press event last week in  Las Vegas . “We’re going to engage
players.”  Fox, a unit of  Rupert Murdoch ’s  21st Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ,
declined to comment on the gaming association’s advocacy.  “Runner Runner” cost about $30 million to make, according
to a person with knowledge of the situation -- a sum that
doesn’t include marketing expenses. It’s projected to take in
$11 million at the U.S. and Canadian box office this weekend,
the estimate of Boxoffice.com.  In the film, Timberlake travels to  Costa Rica  to confront
an online gambling tycoon played by  Ben Affleck . He’s also
pressured to cooperate with FBI agents.  Receipts, typically split with movie theaters, are
projected to reach $32 million for the film’s domestic theater
run, according to Boxoffice.com. “Runner Runner” has generated
about $11.2 million in overseas markets since Sept. 25,
according to Box Office Mojo.  Weekend Movies  The film will go head-to-head with “Gravity,” a Warner
Bros. science-fiction thriller with  Sandra Bullock  and  George Clooney .  Films and TV have helped the gambling industry before.
“Rounders,” the 1998 Miramax film featuring  Matt Damon , along
with the televised “World Series of Poker,” contributed to a
rise in the popularity of poker, especially Texas Hold ’Em.
“Runner Runner” writers David Levien and Brian Koppelman also
wrote “Rounders.”  The term “runner runner” refers to a situation in which a
poker player needs specific, consecutive cards to win a hand.
The film’s fictional account of a lawless online poker world is
“not far from reality for millions of Americans,” Freeman said
at the Global Gaming Expo trade show last week.  The trade association didn’t play a role in the making of
“Runner Runner” and only became aware of it when an ad for the
picture appeared online in July, according to Freeman.  The association contacted the film’s marketing team, which
wasn’t interested in participating in an advocacy campaign,
Freeman said.  Leonardo DiCaprio  is among the producers,
according to IMDB.com.  The association’s ad, available at the website
www.onlinevillains.com, says illegal offshore gambling sites
lack safeguards against cheating, money-laundering and underage
gambling. It argues for national regulation, referring viewers
to the  website  of the AGA, whose members include most major U.S.
casino owners.  “We were defensive,” Freeman said. “We will be zealous
in talking about the economic dangers created by $2.6 billion in
illegal play.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  