-- McCaw Returns to Lead All Blacks in Rugby Championship Decider
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-03T01:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/mccaw-returns-to-lead-all-blacks-in-rugby-championship-decider.html
New Zealand captain  Richie McCaw 
recovered from a knee injury in time to lead the All Blacks in
this weekend’s Rugby Championship decider against South Africa.  McCaw, who missed the past two All Blacks matches, returns
at openside flanker for the Oct. 5 game in Johannesburg in one
of two changes to the starting lineup. Charlie Faumuina takes
over from the injured Owen Franks at tighthead prop, while Dane
Coles comes onto the bench as reserve hooker.  Top-ranked New Zealand would secure its second straight
sweep of the southern hemisphere championship by winning at
Ellis Park, where it has three victories in 11 previous meetings
with the Springboks. South Africa must secure the maximum five
competition points to have any chance of snatching the title.  “The South Africans will come at us with their physical
game but to win the championship they will have to do that by
scoring four tries so we are expecting more ball movement than
we have seen in the past,” All Blacks coach  Steve Hansen  said
in a statement. “The answer is pretty simple for us: we will
have to match their physicality and be very accurate with our
execution across the park, both on attack and defensively.”  South Africa beat Australia 28-8 last week to set up the
title decider between the top two teams in the International
Rugby Board rankings. New Zealand takes a five-point lead atop
the standings into the final round after Ben Smith’s last-minute
try secured a bonus point in a 33-15 win in Argentina.  Springboks’ Challenge  To win the championship, the Springboks must score at least
four tries, win by eight or more points and limit New Zealand to
fewer than four tries. The last time the All Blacks allowed four
tries was Oct. 30, 2010, against Australia in Hong Kong.  South Africa  coach Heyneke Meyer yesterday made two
starting changes. Juandre Kruger replaces suspended lock Flip
van der Merwe, while Bismarck du Plessis, who was wrongly shown
the red card in the Springboks’ 29-15 loss in New Zealand on
Sept. 14, comes in for Adriaan Strauss at hooker.  Outside center JJ Engelbrecht is in doubt because of a quad
muscle injury and will be replaced by Jan Serfontein in the
starting team if he isn’t fit.  “We will give JJ all the time he needs to fully recover,”
Meyer said in a team statement.  NEW ZEALAND: Israel Dagg, Ben Smith, Conrad Smith, Ma’a
Nonu, Julian Savea, Aaron Cruden,  Aaron Smith , Kieran Read,
Richie McCaw (captain),  Liam Messam , Samuel Whitelock, Brodie
Retallick, Charlie Faumuina, Andrew Hore, Tony Woodcock.  Replacements: Dane Coles,  Wyatt Crockett ,  Ben Franks ,
Steven Luatua, Sam Cane, Tawera Kerr-Barlow, Beauden Barrett,
Charles Piutau.  SOUTH AFRICA: Zane Kirchner, Willie le Roux, JJ
Engelbrecht/Jan Serfontein, Jean de Villiers (captain),  Bryan
Habana , Morne Steyn, Fourie du Preez, Duane Vermeulen, Willem
Alberts, Francois Louw, Juandre Kruger, Eben Etzebeth, Jannie du
Plessis, Bismarck du Plessis, Tendai Mtawarira.  Replacements: Adriaan Strauss,  Gurthro Steenkamp , Coenie
Oosthuizen, Franco van der Merwe, Siya Kolisi,  Ruan Pienaar , Pat
Lambie, Jan Serfontein/Juan de Jongh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  