-- China No Threat to Southeast Asia as Xi Seeks to Grow Trade
-- B y   N e i l   C h a t t e r j e e   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2013-10-03T09:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/china-says-no-threat-to-southeast-asia-as-xi-seeks-to-grow-trade.html
China ’s economic development will
bring opportunities rather than threats as it seeks to boost
trade with  Southeast Asia , Xi Jinping said on his first visit to
the region as president.  China wants warmer ties with members of the  Association of
Southeast Asian Nations  and expects trade with the group to
reach $1 trillion by 2020, Xi said in a speech to Indonesia’s
parliament in Jakarta today.  Those calls will be tested as China grows more assertive in
the South China Sea, an area dotted with nations that would call
for U.S. help if attacked, while the U.S. is seeking greater
influence in the region. Southeast Asia is aiming for its own
free trade bloc by 2015, with regional ties to be on display at
an Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum leaders meeting in
Bali and an Asean summit in  Brunei  next week.  “We should abandon the cold war mentality, and cooperate
to build security and jointly safeguard regional peace and
stability,” Xi said in the speech.  Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s largest economy, does not have
direct claims to waters in the  South China Sea  rich with fish,
oil and gas that are disputed by countries such as China, the
Philippines and  Vietnam . Indonesia’s Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa has tried to broker agreement on a joint stance by
Southeast Asian nations, while China has agreed to work toward a
code of conduct on the waters, which contain some of the world’s
major shipping lanes.  ‘Dose of Salt’  “Indonesians will take his comments on the South China Sea
with a large dose of salt,” said Keith Loveard, head of risk
analysis at Jakarta-based security company Concord Consulting.
“Actions speak louder than words and China’s recent actions in
the area make it clear it intends to brook no disagreement with
its claims.”  The  Philippines  was monitoring as many as five Chinese law-enforcement ships at Scarborough Shoal, its army said on Sept.
20. China said last month its sovereignty over the Shoal is
undisputed.  “As for the territorial disputes between China and some
Southeast Asian countries over sovereignty and maritime rights,
both sides should always adhere to peaceful means,” Xi said.  Next year Chinese ships will for the first time join a 22-nation Rim of the Pacific naval drill, which is led by U.S.
forces. China’s participation reflects a changed attitude as the
world’s two biggest militaries boost contacts despite competing
for influence in the Asia-Pacific.  Trade Deficit  Xi met Indonesian President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono in
Jakarta yesterday and signed agreements to jointly develop
industries including fisheries, tourism and aerospace, the
presidential palace said.  Xi is on a two-day visit to  Indonesia  and will leave for
 Malaysia  today before returning to Indonesia for the APEC
meeting on Oct. 7-8.  China was due to close agreements to invest in 21 projects
in Indonesia worth a total $28.2 billion, Indonesia Industry
Minister M.S. Hidayat said. China proposes setting up an Asian
infrastructure investment bank, Xi said.  “So much else is at stake in the relationship,” said
Loveard, referring to the promise of investment, Indonesian
hopes to get a favored trade status and Chinese demand for its
coal. “Indonesia knows very well that it is dealing with the
big boy on the block and will tread cautiously.”  APEC Summit  Indonesia has built a new airport and toll road in Bali to
be ready for Xi and U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s visit to the
APEC summit, while elsewhere infrastructure has struggled to
keep pace with economic and trade growth. Its persistent trade
deficit this year has led to a slump in the rupiah. Indonesia’s
non-oil and gas exports to China in August were worth $1.48
billion, while imports totaled $2 billion, according to the
country’s statistics bureau.  “By country, Indonesia’s trade shortfall with China
remained by far the largest drag,” HSBC Holdings Plc said in a
report today led by economists Frederic Neumann and Qu Hongbin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Chatterjee in Jakarta at 
 nchatterjee1@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in  Hong Kong  at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  