-- China Services Index Jumps in Sign of Sustained Rebound
-- B y   P a u l   P a n c k h u r s t   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2013-10-03T04:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/china-services-index-jumps-in-sign-economy-can-sustain-rebound.html
A Chinese  services-industry index 
rose to a six-month high, adding to signs that the world’s
second-biggest economy will sustain a rebound after a two-quarter slowdown.  The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index rose to
55.4 in September from 53.9 in August, the Beijing-based
National Bureau of Statistics and Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing said today. A number more than 50 indicates an
expansion.  An increase in tourist numbers for a current week-long
Chinese holiday points to robust consumption, Lu Ting, Bank of
America’s Hong Kong-based economist, wrote in a research note
received today. Gains in non-manufacturing industries help
Premier  Li Keqiang  shift the economy away from dependence on
exports and investment, with the next phase of that strategy to
be mapped out at a Communist Party meeting in November.  “The rising service PMI suggests that the recovery in 3Q13
was quite broad based even if the recovery was led by fixed
asset investment in transport and urban infrastructure.,” Lu
said today in an e-mail. The “robust” service sector indicates
the low probability of a hard landing, according to Lu.  Fiscal support measures including spending on railways,
urban infrastructure and shanty-town redevelopments are helping
Li to protect a goal of a 7.5 percent economic expansion this
year.  ‘Economy Stabilizing’  “ China ’s economy is stabilizing in a good trend and the
nation has the confidence, conditions and ability to realize its
main economic targets this year,” Li Keqiang said in a speech
on Sept. 30, as cited by China National Radio.  China’s economy  may have expanded 7.9 percent in the third
quarter and growth may slow to 7.7 percent in the current three-month period due to a high comparison base, according to Lu.  The statistics bureau reports third-quarter gross domestic
product on Oct. 18. The economy probably grew 7.7 percent from a
year earlier, according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts,
up from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent pace.  Visitors to the nation’s top 125 tourist attractions rose
19 percent from a year earlier to 8.4 million people during the
first two days of the National Day break after adjusting for
changes to the number of surveyed attractions, according to the
Bank of America report.  Spending Grew  The federation said a gauge of new orders jumped, retail
spending grew strongly and a logistics industry index rose.
Today’s report followed smaller-than-forecast gains in
manufacturing indexes for September.  In  Hong Kong , the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  climbed 1
percent as of 11:40 a.m. local time.  China on Sept. 29 inaugurated an 11-square-mile
experimental area in  Shanghai , where it will allow trials of
 yuan  convertibility in capital flows, establish an international
energy center and allow overseas parents of companies
established in the zone to sell yuan-denominated debt in China.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Beijing at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  