-- Christie’s Coattails Worry N.J. Democrats in Legislature
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/christie-s-coattails-worry-n-j-democrats-in-legislature.html
As  New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
leads his opponent by as much as 34 percentage points in his bid
for a second term, some Democrats say they’re worried that votes
for the incumbent Republican will trickle down the ballot.  At stake may be control of the legislature, where all 120
seats also are up for grabs. Christie’s dominance over state
Senator Barbara Buono, the Democratic candidate for governor, is
giving hopes to Republican lawmakers that they could make
inroads after being out of power for the past decade.  Republicans would need to win nine seats to take over the
Assembly and five for the Senate. Democratic control has stymied
Christie’s efforts to reshape the state  Supreme Court , which has
ruled against some of his spending cuts. Though polls suggest
Christie’s coattails won’t be long, Democrats say he may be able
to swing enough of the races to shift power.  “It’s obviously a concern for us,” said Assemblyman Troy Singleton, a Democrat from Willingboro who won his seat by 2
percentage points in 2011. “The governor is polling very strong
and we’d be neglecting our duties if we didn’t think that could
have an effect.”  Christie, 51, was the first Republican elected New Jersey
governor since 1997. He became a national figure by raising
public employee contributions to pensions and benefits, vetoing
tax increases for millionaires and leveling insults at critics.  Election Edge  The governor’s approval rating surged for his response to
 Hurricane Sandy , which struck Oct. 29, devastating some coastal
towns. He’s seeking re-election in a state where Democrats
outnumber Republicans by about 700,000 registered voters.  Buono, 60, has labored to overcome Christie’s resonance
with voters and a fundraising edge of more than $11 million.
Some of the state’s most powerful Democrats, including Essex
County Executive Joseph DiVincenzo, have endorsed Christie.  Adding to Buono’s struggles was Christie’s decision to call
a special Oct. 16 U.S. Senate election for the seat held by
 Frank Lautenberg , a five-term Democrat who died in June. That
timing keeps the popular Democratic candidate in that race,
Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , off the November ballot and denies the
opposition party any chance of its own coattails.  Five Seats  If polls are any indication, Christie’s influence won’t
result in major legislative gains. In a Sept. 25 poll of likely
voters by  Quinnipiac University , 22 percent said his support of
a candidate would make them more likely to vote for the person.
Six in 10 said it wouldn’t sway them.  Still, Senate Minority Leader Tom Kean, a Republican from
Westfield, said his party has a good shot of picking up the five
seats needed in his chamber to gain a majority.  Competitive races include the Senate seat Buono vacated to
run for governor, which represents part of  Middlesex County .
Assemblyman Peter Barnes, a Democrat from Edison, faces East
Brunswick Mayor David Stahl, who switched parties to “join
Christie” as a Republican.  In the 38th district, centered on Bergen County suburbs,
Democratic Senator Robert Gordon has courted voters by touting
his ability to work with Christie. The governor, meanwhile, has
campaigned for Gordon’s challenger, Republican  Fernando Alonso .  Gains by Republicans in New Jersey this year would reverse
a tide that saw Democrats across the U.S. pick up about 150
seats last year and recapture eight chambers they lost in 2010,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  Dim Hopes  In New Jersey, the prime battleground this year has been
the Senate, where lawmakers have the ability to hold up the
governor’s nominations to judicial posts and cabinet positions.  That has limited Christie’s efforts to remake the state’s
highest court, which he says has “legislated from the bench”
with decisions that funneled extra money to poor schools and
forced communities to build affordable housing. The Senate
Judiciary Committee has blocked Christie’s picks. The seven-member court is operating with five permanent justices.  Voters are tired of such Democratic tactics, Kean said.  “People are looking for a different direction,” he said.
“People like what the governor is doing for this state, they
like the pride he’s bringing back and the national attention
he’s getting, and they’ll support people who want that kind of
vigorous change.”  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for Christie’s campaign, said it
sees “a lot of opportunities” in Assembly races. He declined
to say where Christie is allocating his time and resources.  Showing Up  Christie told reporters Sept. 18 in Trenton that he’s often
joined at stops by Republicans running for office, which he said
is tantamount to campaigning for them.  “I’m working for the entire Republican ticket all the
time,” Christie said. “By just showing up, I think I help our
Republican candidates lower on the ballot.”  Senate President Stephen Sweeney, a Democrat from West
Deptford, said he expects the governor’s race to tighten in the
final weeks and he anticipates returning all of his members.  “One thing you can’t discount is that there are 700,000
more Democrats and I wouldn’t be happy about that number if I
was on the other side,” he said. “I feel very confident, but I
would not take anything for granted.”  New Jersey and Virginia are the only states with governor’s
races this year. Christie is the only incumbent running because
Virginia’s  Bob McDonnell  is term-limited.  Democratic Advantage  In 2011, the last time all 120 legislative seats were up
for grabs, Christie campaigned for Republican candidates and
drew out-of-state donations. Republicans still lost one seat,
after a panel redrawing New Jersey’s 40 legislative districts
approved an electoral map that favored Democrats.  “There’s only a handful of districts that are really
competitive with strong challengers and well-financed candidates
on both sides,” said Ben Dworkin, director of the Rebovich
Institute for New Jersey Politics at  Rider University  in
Lawrenceville. “The Democrats in those districts have the
advantage going into the last weeks of the campaign because of
the makeup, the way the lines were cut was designed to favor
Democrats in those districts.”  In the districts targeted by the Republicans, Democrats’
margin of victory was less than 10 percentage points in 2011,
Kean said. Republicans in those districts have been knocking on
doors since January to get in front of voters.  Justin Myers, executive director of the Democratic State
Committee, said any party that has spent a decade in power has
to be concerned about a potential backlash. Still, he expects
his party to rack up victories.  “We’re in an election year where of course the top of the
ticket for the Republicans is a governor that unfortunately is
very popular with a lot of people in New Jersey and across the
country,” Myers said. “You’ve got to always run scared or you
shouldn’t run at all.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  