-- Citigroup Fined $30 Million for Leaking Apple Research to Funds
-- B y   F a n n i   K o s z e g
-- 2013-10-03T18:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/citigroup-fined-30-million-for-leaking-apple-research-to-funds.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  was fined $30 million
by Massachusetts after an analyst at the bank’s global markets
unit gave institutional clients confidential information on an
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier ahead of other investors.  Kevin Chang , who was based in  Taiwan , sent research on Hon
Hai Precision Industry Co.’s Apple shipments to firms including
hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP, Citadel LLC, GLG Partners
Inc. and T. Rowe Price Group Inc., Massachusetts Secretary of
the Commonwealth William F. Galvin said today in a statement.  Chang e-mailed his research describing “significant cuts
in Apple iPhone production numbers” to clients on Dec. 13,
2012, a day before it was published, the securities regulator
said. Three Citigroup clients sold shares of the Cupertino,
California-based technology firm between the time they received
the e-mail and he published the information, according to the
statement, which didn’t identify the companies. None of the
clients were accused of wrongdoing in a consent order released
yesterday.  “The concept that investors are to be presented with a
level playing field when it comes to the product of research
analysts is a lesson that must be learned over and over again,”
Galvin, 63, said in the statement. “It should be taught as
often as necessary.”  An e-mail message sent to Chang seeking comment was
returned as undeliverable. The  Associated Press  reported today
that he was fired by New York-based Citigroup, without saying
where it got the information.  Sophia Stewart, a Citigroup spokeswoman, confirmed that
Chang is no longer with the company and said the bank is pleased
the matter’s resolved.  Facebook Fine  “We take our regulatory compliance requirements very
seriously and train all of our employees about these
obligations,” Stewart said in an e-mailed statement. “We are
also constantly working to improve, manage and monitor the
compliance and controls process.”  In addition to the fine, Citigroup is required to perform a
three-year review of its disclosure policies on confidential
research, according to the statement.  The bank last year paid Massachusetts a $2 million fine to
settle a complaint that a junior analyst improperly disclosed
confidential information ahead of Facebook Inc.’s 2012 initial
public offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fanni Koszeg in  New York  at 
 fkoszeg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  