-- CLSA Plans Asean Platforms as New Owner Citic Aids China Access
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-10-03T03:20:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/clsa-plans-asean-platforms-as-new-owner-citic-aids-china-access.html
CLSA Ltd.’s broker-dealer unit plans
off-exchange electronic equity trading systems in Southeast
Asian countries and hopes its new owner, Citic Securities Co.,
will help it offer clients access to Chinese markets.  The firm is examining the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia
and Singapore for crossing networks, Andy Maynard, CLSA’s global
head of trading and execution, said in an interview in  Hong
Kong . The acquisition by Beijing-based Citic may allow CLSA to
give its clients access to  China  through the qualified foreign
institutional investor program, he said.  “I think people look at CLSA purely for events like” last
week’s CLSA Investor Forum, which hosted soccer star  David Beckham  as a keynote speaker, Maynard said. “Which, epic as it
is, I’d like us to be known as a broker, and a broker-dealer and
a very good broker-dealer, rather than a research house, which
we’ve been known as for a long long time.”  CLSA has captured 9 percent of off-exchange  stock trading 
in Hong Kong since winning permission for the platform in July,
he said. Citic, China’s largest broker by market value,
completed its purchase of Credit Agricole SA’s CLSA unit, minus
its Taiwan business, for $1.15 billion in August.  Maynard said he hopes Citic’s backing will help CLSA enter
the prime brokerage business, supplying cash management and
securities lending to large investors including  hedge funds .  “We’d be completely left in the dark” in China without
Citic, he said. “Now we’re part of the Citic family and there
is a lot of cooperation we can offer Citic onshore in Shanghai
and Beijing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  