-- Cohen Said to Seek Buyer for $500 Million Reinsurer
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2013-10-03T20:54:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/cohen-said-to-seek-buyer-for-500-million-reinsurer.html
Steven A. Cohen, the billionaire
founder of SAC Capital Advisors LP, is seeking a buyer for the
reinsurer he formed last year as his hedge fund fights U.S.
insider-trading charges, a person familiar with the matter said.  Possible buyers for SAC Re Ltd. include other investment
managers, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because there was no public announcement. The reinsurer could
also wind down operations, the person said.  The reinsurer’s shareholder equity, a measure of assets
minus liabilities, was $533 million as of Dec. 31, according to
a  financial statement  posted by regulators in  Bermuda , where the
company is based. Assets include $513.2 million invested with
affiliated SAC funds.  Cohen, John Paulson, David Einhorn and Daniel Loeb are
among money managers who set up reinsurers that provide access
to additional capital for investing, and tax advantages in
locations like Bermuda or the Cayman Islands. Reinsurers take on
risks from primary carriers.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for SAC Capital, declined
to comment on the sale effort, which was reported earlier today
by the Wall Street Journal. Victoria Guest, the reinsurer’s
general counsel, declined to comment.  Pine River Capital Management LP was approached about
buying the reinsurer, the Journal reported. Patrick Clifford, a
spokesman for Pine River at Abernathy MacGregor Group, declined
to comment.  SAC Capital was accused by the U.S. government in a July
indictment of engaging in an unprecedented insider-trading
scheme lasting more than a decade. In an administrative action,
regulators said Cohen failed to supervise two employees at the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based firm who have been charged with
insider trading.  The reinsurer raised $500 million in a private placement
from founding investors including Cohen and private-equity fund
Capital Z Partners, according to a statement last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  