-- Colorado Springs Impatient as Shutdown Idles Thousands
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2013-10-03T04:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/colorado-springs-impatient-as-shutdown-idles-thousands.html
Alicia Taylor is offering free
haircuts to furloughed civilian defense workers at her  Colorado
Springs  hair salon, with its view of white-winged gliders
soaring over the 17 spires of the U.S. Air Force Academy chapel.  “If you look at your savings account and throw 20 percent
in the trash, how are you going to pay your rent and feed your
family?” Taylor said when asked to explain the giveaway.
“That’s where they are right now.”  About 40 percent of the Colorado city’s economy relies on
its multiple military installations and defense contractors. Ten
percent of the 55,000 people in the industry were sent home by
the government shutdown. The furloughs came on top of mandatory
unpaid days off under budget cuts known as sequestration that
cost federal workers 20 percent of their pay over several weeks.  “When you have to send more than 1,000 workers home on a
non-pay status, it’s very difficult, it impacts morale, it
impacts future operations,” said Dee McNutt, a spokeswoman for
 Fort Carson , the U.S. Army post on the city’s south edge. “We
won’t know the full impact for a while.”  This city of 432,000 in the shadow of Pikes Peak, marking
the Front Range of the  Rocky Mountains , is known for its Tea
Party support and its evangelical community, home to such
Christian groups as Focus on the Family. While some residents
are reluctant to criticize leaders in  Washington , they make
clear that they want the shutdown to end.  ‘Significant Hardship’  While essential missions continue with uniformed military
and some exempted civilians, “the shutdown will place
significant hardships on all of our people,” said Lieutenant
Commander Bill Lewis, a spokesman for the U.S. Northern Command,
or  Northcom , which is responsible for defending U.S. territory.
“We hope this will end soon.”  Northcom and the North American Aerospace Defense Command,
or  Norad , are headquartered at  Peterson Air Force Base , which
furloughed 2,200 civilians and closed its commissary this week.
Nearby  Schriever Air Force Base  sent 400 civilians home, and
Norad and Northcom furloughed about 700 of their 850 civilians.  The government shutdown is the latest in a string of
challenges to  Colorado ’s second-largest city since June 2012. A
pair of wildfires that proved to be the most destructive in
state history burned about 850 homes in the city and its
suburbs. Flooding over the Waldo Canyon Fire scar closed
highways and caused tourists to shy away from attractions near
Pikes Peak. And  federal budget  cuts led the military to lay off
thousands of workers and contractors to put projects on hold.  “Five thousand people here lost their jobs,” said Tom
Binnings, senior partner with Summit Economics LLC, a Colorado
Springs-based economic research firm.  High Unemployment  The city’s  unemployment rate  was 8.4 percent in July, the
latest month for which figures were available for metropolitan
areas, compared with 6.8 percent in Denver and 7.7 percent
nationwide, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics .  Colorado Springs budget troubles took on a high profile in
2010 when the city turned off one-third of its streetlights,
halted park maintenance and cut services to close a $28 million
budget gap after sales-tax revenue plummeted and voters rejected
a property-tax increase.  Political wrangling over the federal budget portends more
economic uncertainty for the city, which ranks first nationwide
in the percentage of total workers who receive paychecks from
Washington. About 19 percent of the workforce depends on the
military, ahead of the U.S. Navy ports of  Virginia  Beach,
Virginia, and Honolulu, tied for second at about 17 percent
each, according to an analysis of Moody’s Analytics data by the
Washington-based nonprofit  Brookings Institution .  Spare Civilians  Some lawmakers said yesterday that legislation passed by
Congress on Sept. 30 and signed by President Obama intended to
ensure active-duty military personnel continued to be paid
during a shutdown should also apply to civilian defense workers.  “If they are supporting men and women in uniform, I think
that means many, or most, if not all of them, need to stay on
the job,” said U.S. Representative Doug Lamborn, a Republican
who represents Colorado Springs. “Unfortunately, in the
Pentagon, they’ve so far drawn too narrow of an interpretation
of who fits into that category.”  U.S. Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel  said  yesterday that
aides were working to identify whether some civilians might be
called back from furlough based on the nature of their duties.  “Fiscal and budget uncertainty isn’t good for any of us in
the industry, whether that stems from failure to pass a budget,
or upcoming concerns over the debt ceiling,” Steve Eisenhart,
senior vice president of the Colorado Springs-based Space
Foundation, said by e-mail. Many space-related defense
activities are centered in the city at Peterson Air Force Base
and Cheyenne Mountain Air Force Station.  Academy Curbed  More than 1,000 civilians were furloughed at the Air Force
Academy, where the government shutdown caused the cancellation
of a fifth of scheduled courses, closed the library and tutor
centers, and shut down the base fitness center. Travel for all
intercollegiate athletics was scrubbed, including the Air Force-Navy game on Oct. 5.  The shutdown also led to the cancellation of tours of the
Cadet Chapel that stands against the backdrop of the Rockies
visible from stylist Taylor’s salon. Her home in the Black
Forest community near Colorado Springs is being repaired after a
wildfire destroyed more than 500 structures in June.  “I hope it doesn’t last long,” said Taylor. “It’s been a
very stressful, very trying, three months down here.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Jennifer Oldham in Denver
at   joldham1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Stephen
Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  