-- Commercial Paper Declines for First Time in Four Weeks, Fed Says
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2013-10-03T15:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/commercial-paper-declines-for-first-time-in-four-weeks-fed-says.html
The market for corporate borrowing
through  short-term IOUs  contracted for the first time in four
weeks, led by a fall in issuance from non-financial businesses.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S. commercial paper
declined $9.3 billion to $1.055 trillion outstanding in the week
ended yesterday, the Federal Reserve said today on its website.
That’s the biggest drop since the period ended July 31 and the
lowest level since the market touched $1.047 trillion for the
week ended Sept. 18.  The decline in domestic nonfinancial issuance is “almost
wholly a lagged response to the decline in short-term bond
rates,” Howard Simons, strategist at Bianco Research LLC in
 Chicago , wrote in an e-mail. “Issuers have a renewed incentive
to term out debt.”  IOUs sold by  non-financial companies  fell from a 12-year
high, dropping $8 billion to $234.5 billion, the Fed said.
Dollar-denominated company bond yields fell to 4.1 percent
yesterday from a 15-month high of 4.37 percent on Sept. 5,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, after the
central bank said last month it would maintain the pace of
economic stimulus.  The Fed said Sept. 18 that it would keep buying $45 billion
of Treasuries and $40 billion of mortgage bonds monthly until at
least its next meeting Oct. 29-30. Policy makers were “somewhat
concerned” by tightening financial conditions and decided to
keep their current level of asset purchases as a “precautionary
step,” Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said at a news conference at
the time.  Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in
270 days or less, to fund everyday activities such as rent and
salaries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in  New York  at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  