-- Consumer Comfort in U.S. Retreats for First Time in a Month
-- B y   B e n   S c h e n k e l
-- 2013-10-03T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-retreats-for-first-time-in-a-month.html
Consumer confidence  decreased for the
first time in four weeks as Americans’ views of the economy
deteriorated to the lowest level since May.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell in the week ended
Sept. 29 to minus 29.4 from minus 28.1. A measure of attitudes
about the economy slumped as lawmakers failed to resolve their
differences over the nation’s budget, culminating this week in a
shutdown of the government that risks slowing the expansion.  “Political tensions that led to the current government
shutdown, and the coming policy fight over the debt ceiling, are
likely behind the decline in consumer comfort,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York. A
prolonged fight over the budget “carries significant risk to
overall consumer and business sentiment.”  The first partial closure of the government in 17 years
risks further rattling consumers’ moods at the same time the
U.S. nears a deadline to raise the debt limit and avoid default.
Nonetheless, the cheapest gasoline prices since January and
improved home values are giving households the wherewithal to
sustain spending, which accounts for 70 percent of the economy.  The comfort index registered its strongest quarter since
2007, as the measure reached a more than five-year high in early
August. The gauge has averaged minus 16.3 since its inception in
December 1985.  Another report today showed fewer Americans than forecast
filed applications for  unemployment benefits  last week,
indicating U.S. employers were maintaining staff counts in the
days leading up to the government shutdown.  Jobless Claims  Jobless claims rose by 1,000 to 308,000 in the week ended
Sept. 28, the Labor Department said in Washington. The median
forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a
rise to 315,000.  Stocks fell for a second day as investors weighed the
jobless claims data and little progress from lawmakers on ending
the federal shutdown. The S&P 500 lost 0.3 percent to 1,688.97
at 9:37 a.m. in New York.  The only component in the Consumer Comfort gauge to weaken
last week was the gauge of Americans’ current  views on the
economy , which dropped to minus 57.8 from minus 52.5.  The  buying-climate  measure increased to minus 35 from minus
35.8 and the reading on  personal finances  climbed for a third
straight week, to 4.5 from 4.  Falling prices at the gas pump provided some relief for
households. The average cost of a gallon of  regular-grade 
gasoline declined to $3.39 on Oct. 1, the lowest since Jan. 28,
according to data from AAA, the nation’s largest auto group.
Since the end of August, fuel prices have dropped 20 cents.  Home Values  An increase in home prices from a year ago is also
underpinning household finances. The S&P/Case-Shiller index of
 property values  in 20 cities rose 12.4 percent in July from the
same month in 2012, the biggest jump in more than seven years.  Even as households grow more optimistic about their
personal finances, the first federal government shutdown in 17
years, at the same time the U.S. approaches the limit on its
borrowing authority, has the potential to discourage spending
and slow growth.  A shutdown lasting one week may reduce output by 0.1
percentage point, according to the median estimate of 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey. The negative effect is
expected to accelerate the longer the shutdown persists.  “If this lingers for a while, it endangers the economic
recovery at best,” Dave Barger, chief executive officer at
JetBlue Airways Corp., said in an interview. “If this
percolates into the psyche of business and everybody starts to
back off travel spending and it can trickle down to others,” it
will more problematic.  Vehicle Sales  The  auto industry  may face a slowdown in shopper traffic,
even with domestic carmakers on track to report their highest
annual sales since 2007.  “If this thing drags out a couple of weeks, it starts to
have more impact on customer sentiment and it starts to have a
bigger impact on business,” Kurt McNeil, vice president of U.S.
sales at General Motors Co., said on an Oct. 1 sales call.  Today’s confidence figures showed a growing gap between
homeowners and renters, the second-widest in more than 16
months. The sentiment index among property owners climbed to
minus 20.9 last week, the best in almost two months, from minus
21.4. Among renters the index fell to minus 46.9, the worst
reading since February, from minus 42.4.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers ages 18 and older. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the U.S. economy,
personal finances and buying climate. The margin of error for
the headline figure is 3 percentage points.  The percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the
share of positive views and divided by three. The most recent
reading is based on the average of responses over the previous
four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Schenkel in  Washington  at 
 bschenkel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  