-- Convicted Expert Networker Nguyen Seeks Year of Probation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2013-10-03T22:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/convicted-expert-networker-nguyen-seeks-year-of-probation.html
Bob Nguyen, an expert networking
analyst who pleaded guilty to  insider trading , asked a judge to
impose a one-year term of probation, citing his cooperation and
testimony on behalf of the government.  Nguyen, 34, of  Santa Clara ,  California , is a former analyst
for expert-networking firm Primary Global Research LLC, or PGR.
He pleaded guilty in 2011 in  Manhattan  federal court, admitting
he was part of a scheme at the firm to provide hedge fund
clients with material, non-public information.  His lawyer, Susan Cassell, said in a memo to the court that
while he faces 18 to 24 months in prison under non-binding U.S.
sentencing guidelines, a term of probation is warranted.  “In recognizing his illegal conduct, Mr. Nguyen sought
from early on in this case to assist the government to the
greatest extent possible, in the prosecution of others involved
in this case,” Cassell wrote to U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff,
who’s scheduled to sentence Nguyen on Oct. 17.  Expert-networking companies such as  Mountain View ,
California-based PGR match investors with specialists who
provide insight into specific markets. When he pleaded guilty,
Nguyen said he recruited employees of public companies as
consultants who were paid on an hourly basis.  Nguyen’s cooperation includes his testimony at the trial of
former PGR executive James Fleishman, who was convicted and
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison for helping pass inside
information to hedge fund managers.  Nguyen told a Manhattan federal court jury that one of
Fleishman’s clients was Jesse Tortora, a former analyst at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC. Tortora, who also pleaded
guilty and agreed to cooperate with the U.S., testified last
year at the trial of his former boss, former Diamondback Capital
portfolio manager  Todd Newman . Newman was convicted and
sentenced to 4 1/2 years for insider trading. He remains free on
bail while he fights his conviction.  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Blumberg at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net  