-- Copper Falls as U.S. Shutdown Fuels Demand Concerns
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r   a n d   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2013-10-03T18:08:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/copper-declines-as-u-s-government-shutdown-enters-third-day.html
Copper fell after talks between
President  Barack Obama  and U.S. congressional leaders failed to
break a budget stalemate that spurred a partial government
shutdown, eroding prospects for the economy and metal demand.  The impasse raises the odds of a prolonged standoff. That
may derail negotiations to raise the government’s $16.7 trillion
debt limit by Oct. 17, threatening a default that would roil
global markets. Copper futures have dropped 1.8 percent this
week.  There is “continued despondency over failure to resolve
the government closure fracas, which threatens to stunt economic
growth and hence demand for raw materials.” Michael Turek, a
senior director at Newedge Group SA in New York, said in an
e-mail.  Copper futures for December delivery slumped 1.4 percent to
settle at $3.2685 a pound at 1:06 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Trading was 33 percent lower than the average in the past 100
days, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The partial government shutdown may cost the nation at
least $300 million a day in lost economic output, IHS Inc., a
research company, has estimated. China is the world’s top copper
user, followed by the U.S.  The metal “is going to sit in a tight trading range until
the political standoff in  Washington  gets taken care of one way
or another,” Mark Lewon, the president of Salt Lake City-based
Utah Metal Works Inc., said in an e-mail. “The potential
remains for copper to drop if the uncertainty does not get
lifted.”  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for delivery in three
months fell 1.3 percent to $7,185 a metric ton ($3.26 a pound).
Aluminum, lead, tin and zinc dropped.  Nickel fell 1.6 percent to $13,525 a ton after touching
$13,524, the lowest since July 31. This year, the price has
dropped 21 percent, the most among six main metals on the LME.  Glencore Xstrata Plc said it suspended operations at its
Falcondo nickel mine in the  Dominican Republic  because of the
price slump.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Kolesnikova in Moscow at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  