-- Corporate to Individual Rate Cuts Rely on Best Economies: Taxes
-- B y   M a r c   H e l l e r
-- 2013-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/corporate-to-individual-rate-cuts-rely-on-best-economies-taxes.html
To give the U.S.  tax code  a fresh
look, Congress may rely on an old friend: budget gimmicks that
include assumptions about economic growth that will help offset
the effects of lowered rates.  That’s the assessment of lobbyists and policy analysts who
specialize in the Internal Revenue Code and who are waiting for
the House Ways and Means Committee to release a comprehensive
tax plan before the year’s end, Bloomberg BNA reported.  After months of meetings on ways to simplify the code and
lower tax rates, committee Chairman  Dave Camp  confronts a basic
challenge. Ending many tax deductions and credits won’t cover
the cost of cutting the top individual and corporate tax rates
to 25 percent, as he has pledged, unless the  Michigan  Republican
is also willing to kill such popular breaks as the deductions
for home mortgage insurance and health insurance premiums.  An alternative is to tinker with the timing of various tax
breaks and make economic assumptions that project more revenue
with lower tax rates.  “If you do include economic growth, it’s a much more
doable job,” William McBride, chief economist for the Tax
Foundation, a Washington-based research group, said in an
interview. “I think that’s the only doable way. You have to
point to the economic growth effects.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration supports a top rate
of 28 percent on the corporate side, down from 35 percent, a
reduction that some budget analysts say is achievable if all
corporate tax expenditures are eliminated.  Deficit Hints  Camp and other Republicans on his committee haven’t said
how they plan to pay for lowering the top rate an additional 3
percent, or for cutting the top rate for individuals from 39.6
percent to 25 percent. Lawmakers have adhered to Camp’s
instructions not to discuss the possibilities publicly ahead of
his release of legislation.  Camp has hinted that economic-growth projections will
underlie his measure and its projected impact.  “In  tax reform  we expect to have pro-growth revenue that
will go to  deficit  reduction,” Camp said in a brief interview
with reporters Sept. 26. He added, “I’m not going to talk
numbers because we do not have a bill yet.”  The  Tax Foundation  estimated that establishing two new tax
brackets of 10 percent and 25 percent and eliminating the
Affordable Care Act’s health insurance and investment income
taxes, as well as killing the alternative minimum tax, would
boost gross domestic product by $992 billion. The Foundation’s
calculations also showed that under that scenario, the  budget
deficit  would increase by less than a similar tax plan reviewed
by the congressional Joint Committee on Taxation.  Cutting Rates  The JCT estimated that cutting individual rates to 10
percent and 25 percent and repealing the AMT would add nearly
$3.8 trillion to the deficit over a decade. Cutting the
corporate rate to 25 percent and repealing the corporate AMT
would add $1.3 trillion more, the JCT estimated.  The main difference, the Tax Foundation said, was that its
analysis allowed for the effect of economic growth -- known as
dynamic scoring -- while the JCT’s didn’t.  If the  Ways and Means  panel were to use dynamic scoring,
McBride said, lawmakers could reach Camp’s rate goals by
eliminating only those tax expenditures that don’t add to
economic growth. Tax breaks for retirement accounts and  capital
gains  and dividends could be left alone, he said.  Democrats and some economists frown on dynamic scoring, and
the JCT doesn’t use it to officially estimate the costs of tax
legislation.  ‘Rumpelstiltskin Tale’  Senate Finance Committee member Charles E. Schumer, a  New
York  Democrat, in 2012 called it a “Rumpelstiltskin fairy
tale.” The Ways and Means Committee’s ranking Democrat,
Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan termed dynamic scoring
“unworkable” at a 2011 hearing on economic models for tax
legislation.  The tax-rate goals Camp has set raises several concerns,
said  Donald Marron , director of economic policy initiatives at
the Washington-based  Urban Institute  and former acting director
of the  Congressional Budget Office .  “First is what constraints they are putting on the overall
package,” such as revenue levels and distributional impact, he
said. “If the goal is to get the top rate down to 28 or 25
percent and be distributionally neutral, that’s really hard
unless they are willing to increase rates on investment
income.”  In addition to aiming for a top tax rate of 25 percent,
Camp has determined that a tax package must raise neither more
nor less revenue than the current code and must not distribute
the tax burden any more heavily on one group than another,
compared to current law.  Time Elements  Several types of budget maneuvers may help the committee
lower tax rates, said  Chuck Marr , director of federal  tax policy 
at the Washington-based  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .
If tax-deferred retirement accounts such as 401(k) accounts were
treated more like Roth IRA plans, on which taxes are paid up-front, that would boost government revenue in the short term, he
said, at the price of lower revenue later.  Parts of the corporate tax code have major time elements,
such as accelerated depreciation, that lawmakers could change in
order to boost revenue up-front to make a sharp rate cut
possible, Marr said.  Such moves carry a price, industry groups say. If
accelerated depreciation were replaced with a more gradual cost
recovery system, businesses’s capital costs would increase and
companies would cut investments by as much as $161 billion in
2015, Margo Thorning, senior vice president and chief economist
at the American Council for Capital Formation, testified to the
Ways and Means Committee at a 2012 hearing.  Marr said he favors setting revenue targets first, then
crafting a tax overhaul that aims for those goals. By setting a
lower  tax rate  first, he said, “You create an incentive for
gimmicks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Heller in Washington at  mheller@bna.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cheryl Saenz at  csaenz@bna.com . 