-- HCP Names Jones Lang’s Martin CEO as Flaherty Is Fired
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2013-10-03T20:37:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/hcp-names-jones-lang-s-martin-ceo-as-flaherty-is-fired.html
HCP Inc. (HCP) , the largest U.S. health-care real estate investment trust by market value, said Lauralee Martin will become the third chief executive officer in its 28-year history, replacing James F. Flaherty.  Martin, 62, was most recently chief executive of the
Americas division of brokerage  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  and has
been on HCP’s board for five years. Flaherty was fired as
chairman, president and CEO and will remain a director, the  Long
Beach , California-based REIT said today in a statement. Michael D. McKee will serve as non-executive chairman.  “Lauralee is a very seasoned and effective leader,” McKee
said on a conference call to discuss the management changes.
“We had a wonderful chance to see her up-close and personal for
a number of years and noted her contribution and her insight
into the direction of the company.”  Flaherty, CEO since 2003, was terminated because the board
lost confidence in his “leadership and his leadership style,”
and not due to any issues related to HCP’s business or stock
performance, McKee said on the call. The board will honor his
contract, with severance pay, he said. The option to remove
Flaherty from the board was “not available to us at this
time,” McKee said.  HCP’s directors “don’t like his management style, which is
a funny conclusion to come to 10 years down the road,”  Richard Anderson , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York, said in
a telephone interview. “It sounded contradictory that they were
so thrilled with how the company has progressed to this point,
and then they fire the chairman and CEO. I don’t know if I’ve
ever seen that before.”  Shares Fall  HCP  fell  4.7 percent to $39.82. The stock has dropped 12
percent in the past year, compared with a 0.6 percent decline in
a Bloomberg  index  of health-care REITs.  Martin is one of the highest-ranking females in commercial
real estate, HCP said. She joined Chicago-based Jones Lang
LaSalle in 2002 and previously held executive positions at
Heller Financial Inc., a commercial-finance company, according
to the statement.  With Martin taking over, the two largest health-care REITs
by market value will be run by women. The second-biggest,
Chicago-based Ventas Inc., is led by Debra Cafaro, the chairman
and CEO. Martin would be at least the third woman to take over a
REIT in the past year.  Female CEOs  Wellington Denahan was named chairman and CEO of mortgage
REIT Annaly Capital Management Inc. in November, and Marguerite Nader became CEO of  Sam Zell ’s Equity Lifestyle Properties Inc.
earlier this year. When Nader took over at Equity Lifestyle,
five of the 157 companies in the REIT  indexes  compiled by
Bloomberg were run by women.  HCP’s management changes were “abrupt” and the transition
is “likely a work in progress,” Michael Carroll, an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Solon,  Ohio , said in a research note
today. Carroll cut his rating on HCP shares to underperform,
RBC’s lowest stock rating, from sector perform.  Flaherty “was widely considered a cornerstone” of HCP’s
successful investment strategies, Carroll wrote. “This was one
of the main reasons the company traded at a premium in the
space, and we expect that premium to erode until investors can
better assess the new leadership.”  Jones Lang CEO Colin Dyer will assume Martin’s duties at
the brokerage, the company said in a separate statement today.
Kenneth B. Roath, chairman emeritus of HCP and the REIT’s first
president before it went public, will step down from the board,
HCP also said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  