-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise; Honda Unit Plans $2.75 Billion Sale
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-03T20:29:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-honda-unit-plans-2-75-billion-sale.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
rose as the U.S. government stayed partially closed for a third
day. A unit of  Honda Motor Co. (HMC)  plans to issue $2.75 billion in a
three-part offering.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
1.2 basis points to 80.9 basis points at 4:15 p.m. in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  Investors are bracing for a deceleration in the economy as
a result of the shutdown, which has led to furloughed workers
and government service stoppages. Economists estimated that a
week-long closure may  slow  fourth-quarter gross domestic product
growth by more than 0.25 percentage point, according to a report
the Treasury Department released today.  The budget impasse may stretch into next week and “begin
to bump up against the debt ceiling problem,”  Adrian Miller ,
director of fixed-income strategy at GMP Securities LLC, wrote
in an e-mail. “If there is no clear path to a debt ceiling
resolution, I do expect swaps to widen further.”  The index typically climbs as investor confidence
deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Treasury Report  The shutdown may exacerbate the consequences of a prolonged
debate on raising the $16.7 trillion federal debt limit if it
persists, leading to decreased consumer spending and a higher
 unemployment rate , according to the Treasury.  “If such projections prove accurate, the weaker-than-expected economic expansion would be even more susceptible to
the adverse effects from a debt ceiling impasse than prior to
the shutdown,” the Treasury wrote in the report.  American Honda Finance Corp., the Japanese automaker’s U.S.
finance unit, may sell $1.75 billion of three-year debt,
comprising $1 billion of fixed-rate notes yielding 65 basis
points more than similar-maturity Treasuries and $750 million of
floating-rate securities paying 50 basis points more than the
three-month London interbank offered rate, according to a person
with knowledge of the transaction, who asked not to be
identified because terms aren’t set. It may also issue $1
billion of five-year, fixed-rate debt at a relative yield of 85
basis points.  Three-month Libor was fixed today at 24.3 basis points, or
0.243 percentage point.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, rose 3.3 basis
points to 391.7 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 0.2 basis point to 131.6
basis points, Bloomberg data show. The measure for speculative-grade, or junk-rated, debt rose 6.9 basis points to 675.6.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
Investors Service and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  