-- Crude Drops Third Day This Week on U.S. Shutdown
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-10-03T19:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/crude-fluctuates-on-concern-government-shutdown-may-curb-demand.html
West Texas Intermediate fell for a
third day this week on concern that a protracted U.S. government
shutdown will slow economic growth and reduce fuel demand.  Prices dropped from a two-week high as the first face-to-face talks between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders failed to break the budget logjam yesterday. WTI also
declined as U.S. service industries expanded in September at a
slower pace than forecast, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s
 non-manufacturing index  showed.  “What’s dominating the minds of traders is the government
shutdown,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy &
Economic Research in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “It could have
an effect on the economy and oil demand. The ISM number is
weak.”  WTI for November delivery slid 79 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
settle at $103.31 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
Prices extended losses after the close, touching $102.88. The
volume of all futures traded was 8.3 percent below the 100-day
average at 3:29 p.m. The futures have gained 13 percent in 2013.  Brent for November settlement decreased 19 cents to $109 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Volume
was 4.8 percent below the 100-day average. The European
benchmark’s premium over WTI widened to $5.69 from $5.09
yesterday.  Government Meeting  The Oval Office meeting between Obama and congressional
leaders ended with both sides reiterating their positions and
the points they’ve been making for days, raising the prospect of
a prolonged standoff over the government shutdown and raising
the $16.7 trillion U.S. debt limit.  Mark Zandi  of Moody’s Analytics estimates a three- to four-week shutdown would cut U.S. economic growth by 1.4 percentage
points in the fourth quarter. Moody’s had projected 3 percent
expansion in the fourth quarter without a closure.  Democrats, including Obama, say Republicans must end the
shutdown and raise the  debt ceiling  as a precondition to talks
on broader budgetary disputes. Republicans want to use the
fiscal deadlines to extract changes in Obama’s health-care law.  “As the shutdown drags on, it will have more of a negative
effect on the market,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy.
“People are starting to pick their heads up and look down the
road to calculate the likelihood of a dead default. That could
be a significant market disruption.”  Debt Limit  A government default caused by Congress failing to raise
the debt limit could have catastrophic consequences that might
last decades, the Treasury Department said in a  report  today.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said the Treasury
projects that it will exhaust its “extraordinary measures” to
stay under the debt limit by no later than Oct. 17 and will then
have about $30 billion in cash on hand.  The U.S., the world’s biggest oil-consuming country, used a
fifth of the world’s oil last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s
Statistical Review of World Energy.  The ISM’s  non-manufacturing index  dropped to 54.4 last
month from the prior month’s 58.6, the biggest decrease since
November 2008, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. The
gauge, which fell to the lowest level since June, is hovering
near the 54.7 average since the end of 2011.  Tropical Storm  Crude rose earlier as Tropical Storm Karen developed in the
southwestern  Gulf of Mexico . The system, forecast to strengthen
to near hurricane levels tomorrow, prompted hurricane and storm
watches for the U.S. coastline from  Louisiana  to  Florida . Karen
is expected to make landfall as a strong tropical storm near the
Alabama-Florida line early Oct. 6, according to the  National
Hurricane Center .  The Gulf is home to 23 percent of U.S. crude production,
5.6 percent of gas output and more than 45 percent of petroleum
refining capacity, according to the Energy Department.  Destin Pipeline Co. evacuated all non-essential personnel
yesterday from operations in the central and eastern part of the
Gulf, a company notice showed. BP Plc also said it was pulling
non-essential workers at four deepwater production platforms.
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  was removing similar employees from
four sites and shutting its Neptune platform.  “The storm is supportive for prices,” said  Chris Barber ,
a senior analyst at Energy Security Analysis Inc. in Wakefield,
Massachusetts.  TransCanada  Crude jumped 2 percent yesterday after  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) 
said it plans to finish work on the southern portion of the
Keystone XL pipeline network by the end of October. The 700,000-barrel-a-day pipeline will run to the Texas Gulf Coast from
Cushing, Oklahoma, the delivery point for WTI futures.  “You had some overbuying yesterday,” said  Stephen Schork ,
president of the Schork Group Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .
“There is a lot of uncertainty about the shutdown.”  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
November was 19.8 percent, up from 19.4 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 496,254
contracts as of 3:29 p.m. It totaled 773,444 contracts
yesterday, 26 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.88 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in  New York  at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  