-- De Blasio Extends Lead to 50 Points in New York Mayor Race
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2013-10-03T15:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/de-blasio-extends-lead-over-lhota-to-50-points-in-nyc-mayor-race.html
Bill de Blasio, seeking to become the
first Democratic mayor of  New York  in two decades, widened his
lead over Republican Joseph Lhota to 50 percentage points,
according to a Quinnipiac University poll.  The survey found de Blasio leading Lhota 71 percent to 21
percent among likely voters. Independence Party candidate Adolfo Carrion, a former Democratic Bronx Borough president, received 2
percent, with 5 percent undecided. In a Quinnipiac poll released
Sept. 19, de Blasio led Lhota 66 percent to 25 percent.  De Blasio, whose wife is black, is capturing 90 percent of
the black vote and 79 percent of Hispanics. Blacks, Hispanics
and Asians have outnumbered whites in New York since the 1980s,
and the trend increased through the 2010 Census.  “It’s a new city demographically, and de Blasio captures
it,” said  Maurice Carroll , director of the Poughkeepsie, New
York-based Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. “His
primary-election coalition, with huge support among black and
Hispanic voters, holds.”  De Blasio, 52, a former city councilman elected to the
watchdog post of public advocate in 2009, won the Democratic
nomination in a Sept. 10 primary among seven candidates. He
campaigned against economic inequality and promised to pay for
universal pre-kindergarten classes by taxing the rich. Democrats
outnumber Republicans in New York by more than 6 to 1.  Poll Reaction  “Many, many people across the partisan spectrum want an
honest discussion of these issues and they want to find out what
we can do to make this city a city of opportunity again,” de
Blasio said today on 1010 WINS radio. “That’s where I think the
support is coming from.”  Lhota, 58, a top aide to former Mayor  Rudolph Giuliani  who
led the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority  for a year ending
in December, says de Blasio would hurt the economy with his tax
plan and risk increased crime by restricting police practices in
minority neighborhoods.  “Polls go up and polls go down,” Jessica Proud, his
spokeswoman, said today in a statement. “We are on TV with our
first ad of the general election and we remain confident that
once  New Yorkers  learn more, they will choose Joe Lhota.”  Sandinista Attack  In the past two weeks, Lhota criticized de Blasio for
supporting  Nicaragua ’s Sandinista party and taking a honeymoon
in Cuba in the 1980s, after the New York Times reported those
details. The Times also quoted de Blasio as saying in 1990 that
he was an advocate of “democratic socialism.”  “The flurry of negative headlines,” Carroll said, “don’t
seem to have any effect.”  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 71, will leave office Dec. 31
after three four-year terms. Bloomberg, the founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP, is barred from
seeking another term.  The survey, based on telephone interviews with 1,198 likely
voters, was conducted Sept. 25 to Oct. 1. It had a 2.8
percentage-point error margin, the institute said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  