-- Dell Value Dispute Spotlights Rise in Appraisal Arbitrage
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/dell-value-dispute-spotlights-rise-in-appraisal-arbitrage.html
Carl Icahn ’s plan to seek a higher
price for his stake in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  put the spotlight on a section
of  Delaware  law that is being used by a growing group of money
managers to squeeze more cash from corporate buyouts.  Icahn, 77, has vowed to petition the Delaware Chancery
Court for an independent valuation of his 8.9 percent stake in
Dell, the computer maker that won shareholder approval last
month for a $24.9 billion buyout led by founder  Michael Dell .
Should he proceed, Dell would have to pay him whatever the court
decides his stake, valued at $2.2 billion under the buyout
terms, is worth. Icahn would get accrued interest of almost 6
percent on the award, regardless of whether it is more or less
than he would have received through the original deal.  With returns from traditional  merger arbitrage  waning, the
battle at Dell is drawing attention to appraisals as a way to
systematically profit from buyouts. Money managers such as
Nicholas Maounis and Andrew Barroway, boosted by a court ruling
Icahn attained years ago, have developed a strategy known as
appraisal arbitrage in which they buy stock in takeover targets
after a deal is announced and then seek a higher valuation from
the chancery court.  “Dell has kind of awoken a sleeping giant,” said Matthew
Giffuni, the manager of Quadre Investments LP, a New York-based
firm using the Delaware court to contest the price paid in July
for NetSpend Holdings Inc. “Now there are new firms who are
crawling into the space.”  Under Delaware  law , stockholders of companies incorporated
in the state are entitled to a judicial determination of fair
value in a takeover. More than half of U.S. publicly traded
companies are incorporated in Delaware, the smallest state by
area after  Rhode Island .  Transkaryotic Therapies  For years, the petitions were mostly filed by disgruntled
investors as the only alternative to accepting bids they deemed
too low. A court ruling on an appraisal play made by Icahn in
2005 opened the door for money managers to pursue appraisals
more systematically, by analyzing stocks to find takeovers that
appear to pay less than intrinsic value, then buying shares to
gain appraisal rights. The strategy is a twist on traditional
merger arbitrage, in which investors buy shares in a takeover
target whose stock trades at a discount to the buyout offer
because of uncertainty over whether the deal will be completed.  Icahn, SAC Capital Advisors LP and Millennium Management
LLC had challenged the price in Shire Pharmaceuticals Group
Plc’s acquisition of biotechnology company Transkaryotic
Therapies Inc. The investors sought appraisal on 11 million
shares, most bought after the record date for determining
eligibility to vote on the deal.  ‘Taking Advantage’  The court said the petitioners were entitled to fair value
on all shares, upending the notion that stock purchased after
the record date couldn’t be included in a claim. The case was
eventually settled for $37 a share, the same price paid in the
merger, plus interest.  The ruling allowed arbitragers to buy stock just before
shareholders voted on a transaction, minimizing the danger of a
deal falling apart, and giving investors more time to study
financial performance as well as valuation methods and fairness
opinions in takeover documents, which often are published after
the record date is set.  “People are taking advantage of the flexibility on
Transkaryotic,” said Daniel Wolf, a partner in the mergers
practice of Chicago-based law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP. “You
can just sit there and wait and watch and just decide if the
business environment is improved.”  Merion Investment  One example is Barroway’s Merion Investment Management LP,
which disclosed a 5.4 percent stake in Houston-based BMC
Software Inc. on July 22, two days before Bain Capital LLC and
Golden Gate Capital won approval for their $6.7 billion
acquisition of the company. Merion sought appraisal last month,
forgoing the $46.25 a share that the private-equity firms had
agreed to pay.  Barroway, co-founder of one of the nation’s largest
securities class-action firms, is seeking to raise $1 billion
for a group of funds specializing in appraisal arbitrage. His
Merion will target management-led buyouts, the type of
acquisitions in which top executives, often including the
founder, seek to take a company private.  “The fund believes that ‘insider acquirers’ often have a
greater incentive to offer and pay minority shareholders
substantially less than fair value,” Merion says in a marketing
document. It will target a return rate of 20 percent by
enforcing appraisal rights through the judicial process.  Maounis’s Petitions  Barroway, the managing partner at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based Merion, declined to comment on the strategy.  Maounis, the hedge-fund manager whose Amaranth Advisors LLC
collapsed in 2006 after losing $6.6 billion on natural-gas
trades, petitioned this year for appraisals of shares that his
new firm, Verition Group LLC, held in three takeovers, according
to the Delaware Register in Chancery.  Verition sought appraisal after investment bank Duff &
Phelps Corp. was bought April 23 by Carlyle Group LP, Swiss bank
Pictet & Cie and others. The firm also filed petitions after the
Dec. 31 purchase of Ancestry.com Inc. by Permira Holdings Ltd.
and the July 2 takeover of NetSpend by Total System Services
Inc.  Maounis, whose firm is based in Greenwich,  Connecticut ,
didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Of the 18 deals spurring petitions in Delaware through
September of this year, at least 12 drew filings by one or more
arbitragers. Merlin Partners and its affiliates targeted eight
transactions, according to the Chancery docket.  ‘Paying Enough’  Merlin is run by Beachwood, Ohio-based Ancora Advisors LLC,
a money-management firm founded by Richard Barone. Barone, an
activist investor who started his first money-management firm in
1973, said in an interview that Ancora has done the bulk of its
appraisal arbitrage for about a year, though it had some
experience with the strategy previously.  “We look at these deals and try to judge how fair the deal
is,” said Barone, a 71-year-old native of  Cleveland  who is no
longer involved in Ancora’s day-to-day operations. “Where we
believe the acquiring company is not paying enough, we will go
for appraisal rights.”  Appraisal judgments are paid only to those who file the
petition, and can be more or less than what they would have
gotten in the original deal. To qualify, an investor needs to
file an appraisal demand with the target before the shareholder
vote, then oppose the deal or refrain from casting a ballot. The
investor must petition the court within 120 days after the deal
becomes final.  Settling Cases  Legal fees can reach millions of dollars, and it typically
takes one to three years for a judgment, though a petition filed
in 1983 over  Ronald Perelman ’s bid for Technicolor Inc. required
22 years to resolve.  Most appraisal claims are settled before the court rules.
Quick accords eliminate the expense of pressing a case, said
attorney Jeremy Anderson at Fish & Richardson PC.  Awards accrue interest at the rate the U.S. Federal Reserve
 charges  banks to borrow from its discount window, currently 0.75
percent, plus five percentage points, retroactively to the
deal’s completion.  Eight of the 45 appraisal actions that went through trial
in the past 20 years resulted in an appraisal of fair value that
was less than the merger price, according to Fish & Richardson.
In a 2004 ruling on Sunbeam Corp.’s purchase of Coleman Co. for
$5.83 a share, the court said the fair value was $32.35.  ‘Purest’ Value  “This is value investing in its purest and most
professionalized form,” said Gary Lutin, a former investment
banker who runs the Shareholder Forum, a New York-based group
that created the  Dell Valuation Trust  to foster the creation of
securities backed by appraisal rights. “Except you are
depending on a very sophisticated judge rather than Mr.
Market.”  In a 2007 case the court went the other way, ruling in
response to a petition by Highfields Capital Ltd. that Mony
Group Inc. was worth $24.97 a share when acquired by AXA
Financial Inc., after $31 was paid in the takeover.  Dell’s founder and Silver Lake Management LLC won the vote
on their buyout of the  Round Rock , Texas-based company on Sept.
12, after months of opposition, including a competing bid from
New York-based Icahn Capital LP. The buyout group ultimately
agreed to pay $13.75 a share plus a 13 cent dividend.  Dell Estimates  Icahn built his stake to 156.5 million shares after the
transaction was announced in February as he fought for control,
then asked fellow investors in July to join him in preparing to
seek appraisal rights. Conceding defeat as the buyout gained
momentum, on Sept. 9 he reiterated his appraisal plan.  Most professional investors view Dell’s intrinsic value in
the $15 to $18 range, according to Lutin.  If the court were to take two years to rule and award Icahn
$18 a share, the company would owe him $3.17 billion in
principal and interest, about $1 billion more than he’d get via
the buyout. Outcome aside, it would be one of the court’s
biggest petitions ever, said Lawrence Hamermesh, the Rudy R.
Vale Professor of Corporate and Business Law at the Widener
Institute of Delaware Corporate Law in Wilmington.  Dell is a bad bet for appraisal arbitrage, according to
Quadre’s Giffuni. With others preparing to join Icahn in filing,
Dell is unlikely to settle claims because of the prohibitive
cost, he said.  Holders “should be happy with what they are getting,”
said Giffuni, a former merger and acquisitions attorney who
formed Quadre in 2009.  Icahn declined to comment on a possible claim. Like any
petitioner, he’d have 60 days after the deal is done to change
his mind and accept the terms, said Charles Nathan, the former
co-head of the mergers practice at law firm Latham & Watkins
LLP.  “There is nothing to say that Carl couldn’t turn around
and settle for the deal price when no one is paying attention,”
said Nathan, a partner at RLM Finsbury, a strategic-communications firm headquartered in  New York  and  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  