-- Deloitte & Touche Settles Suits Over Taylor Bean Collapse
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-10-03T21:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/deloitte-touche-settles-suits-over-taylor-bean-collapse.html
Deloitte & Touche LLP settled
lawsuits by Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp.’s bankruptcy
trustee and Deutsche Bank AG over $7.6 billion in losses
associated with the collapse of the mortgage lender.  Bankruptcy trustee Neil Luria and Taylor Bean’s Ocala
Funding unit sued Deloitte in September 2011 over claims the
accounting firm failed to detect a fraud that led to losses at
the defunct lender. Deutsche Bank, which filed its complaint in
December 2011, invested in asset-backed notes issued by Ocala
based on Deloitte’s audits of Taylor Bean’s financial statements
from 2005 through July 2009.  “The cases were settled to the mutual satisfaction of the
parties,” plaintiffs’ attorney Steven Thomas said today in a
phone interview. Settlement terms are confidential, he said.  The settlement comes ahead of an Oct. 21 trial in the case.
Taylor Bean, once the 12th-largest U.S. mortgage lender,
collapsed in 2009 after federal regulators began probing a fraud
that involved fake mortgage assets, targeted the federal bank
bailout program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery,
Alabama-based Colonial Bank.  Langdon Cook, a spokesman for Deloitte, confirmed the
settlement in an e-mail.  Deloitte, one of the so-called Big Four accounting firms,
allegedly ignored red flags in Taylor Bean’s books, allowing the
lender’s former chairman,  Lee Farkas , to orchestrate a fraud
that toppled the company, according to the complaints. Farkas
was sentenced in June 2011 to 30 years in prison for his role.
Six conspirators, including former Chief Executive Officer  Paul
Allen , pleaded guilty and were sentenced to prison terms ranging
from three months to eight years.  Ocala filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in  Florida 
in July 2012 listing assets and debt of more than $1 each
billion in court documents.  The cases are Ocala Funding LLC v Deloitte & Touche LLP,
11-30957-CA-40; Deutsche Bank AG v. Deloitte & Touche LLP,
11-43773-CA-40, Circuit Court of the 11th Judicial Circuit,
Miami-Dade County, Florida.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  