-- Democrats Balk at Obama’s Pacific Trade Accord Fast Track
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-10-03T19:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/democrats-balk-at-obama-s-fast-track-push-on-pacific-trade-talks.html
Some Democrats in Congress, whose
support  Barack Obama  needs for trade accords, want to put the
brakes on a Pacific-region deal just as the president prepares
to meet with leaders of nations drafting the pact.  A growing chorus of lawmakers is calling for trade
negotiators to address issues including currency manipulation,
food-safety standards and competition with state-backed
industries as the administration seeks “fast-track” authority
to smooth eventual passage of the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  “I oppose fast-track authority like what we have had in
the past,” Representative  Rosa DeLauro , a Connecticut Democrat,
said on a conference call today with reporters. “We are not
just here to rubber stamp what gets done” by trade negotiators,
she said.  The fast-track approach, also known as Trade Promotion
Authority, gives the president the ability to put an accord
before lawmakers for an up-or-down vote. That method was used to
negotiate deals, including pacts with Korea, Panama and
Colombia, before its expiration in 2007. The administration and
business groups say fast-track can help assure trading partners
that commitments made by the U.S. won’t unravel in Congressional
negotiations.  Chamber Support  “We think every president should have this authority,”
 John Murphy , vice president of international affairs at the
Washington-based U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said in a phone
interview. The board of directors of the  National Association of
Manufacturers  today voted to urge lawmakers to renew the fast-track authority for the president.  While the U.S. and other nations seek an agreement on the
Pacific-accord by the end of December, members of Congress have
urged the administration to resolve concerns including American
access to Japan’s auto markets and treatment of workers
throughout the region before an approval vote.  Negotiations are “being done without sufficient input from
members of Congress,” DeLauro said. Lawmakers should have more
of a say because the TPP is a 21st century agreement that goes
beyond traditional tariff deals, she said. The TPP would entail
issues including environmental protection, Internet trade,
access to medicines and market access for small businesses.  A bipartisan group of 60 senators -- a bloc big enough to
sink a trade accord -- on Sept. 24 urged the administration to
include provisions to prevent currency manipulation in U.S.
free-trade agreements. In addition to the 12-nation Pacific
accord, the U.S. is negotiating a trade deal with the 28-nation
European Union.  Currency Concerns  Froman said during a breakfast with reporters on Sept. 26
that while currency discussions aren’t part of the Pacific
talks, the agency is working with domestic groups and lawmakers
to address their concerns.  Obama is scheduled to meet with other leaders pushing the
Trans-Pacific Partnership, known as the TPP, at an Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation summit next week in Bali,  Indonesia . A
partial U.S. government shutdown in effect since Oct. 1 led
Obama to cancel further stops in Malaysia and the  Philippines .
Secretary of State  John Kerry  will go in his stead.  Other countries negotiating the trade pact are Australia,
Brunei, Canada,  Chile , Japan, Malaysia, Mexico,  New Zealand ,
 Peru , Singapore and Vietnam. If completed, the trade deal would
cover an area with about $26 trillion in annual economic output,
make it the largest trade deal in American history.  Obama in October 2011 signed legislation implementing the
Colombia, Korea and Panama accords, first negotiated by the
administration of  George W. Bush . The Obama administration and
members of Congress worked to resolve lingering issues dealing
with autos, labor and taxes, and the deals were approved by up-or-down votes.  ‘No Surprises’  Senator  Elizabeth Warren , a Massachusetts Democrat, urged
her colleagues to vote against Froman’s confirmation in June
until USTR released its negotiating texts.  “If members of the public do not have reasonable access to
the terms of the agreements under negotiation, then they are
unable to offer real input into the process,” she wrote in a
June 13 letter.  “We’re in constant dialogue with Congress throughout our
negotiation,” Froman told reporters last month. “Every member
of Congress has access to the texts” of the agreements, he
said. USTR has had hundreds of discussions about the TPP with
members of Congress and their staffs since 2009, according to
agency spokeswoman  Carol Guthrie .  Froman said USTR shares information and gets input from
groups that may be affected by the discussions to make sure
there are “no surprises” in the trade negotiations.  Bottom Line  “You can’t release the text to everybody” from a
negotiating standpoint, Ed Gerwin, president of consultancy
Trade Guru LLC of  Falls Church , Virginia, said in a phone
interview. “It’s like buying a car and letting everyone in the
shop know what your bottom line is.”  Gerwin said lawmakers have it within their power to require
greater transparency within an agreement and to give Obama fast-track authority.  Consumer groups led by  Public Citizen , labor unions and
some Democrats have called on the administration to be more
transparent about its negotiating positions with other nations,
allowing texts to be released publicly so that people will know
what’s in the pacts that will affect them.  “The process stinks,”  Larry Cohen , president of the
 Communications Workers of America , told reporters today. “We
need to fix it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  