-- Direct Energie Offers Discounts as France Raises Rates
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-10-03T14:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/direct-energie-offers-online-discounts-as-france-raises-tariffs.html
Direct Energie (ALDIR)  offered discount power
and gas online to compete with former monopolies  Electricite de
France SA  and  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  after regulated rates rose.  Households are eligible for rebates of as much as 10
percent on the state-set tariffs, it said on its  website .  France allowed EDF to raise residential electricity rates 5
percent on Aug. 1 and a further 5 percent next year. Last year,
the rates were the second-lowest in the European Union, adjusted
for average income, according to Eurostat. France’s regulator
agreed with companies such as Direct Energie that the low rates
meant they couldn’t compete against state-controlled utilities.  “For years EDF was selling below cost of production
through regulated rates,” Direct Energie Chief Executive
Officer Xavier Caitucoli said today on BFM radio. “If EDF is
allowed to cover its costs, competitors can compete with
regulated rates. It’s an important change. The opening of the
market to competition has been an obstacle course.” Direct
Energie is gaining about 6,000 new clients a month, he said.  The company, which merged with Poweo SA, had 798,000 power
and 227,000 gas customers in  France  last year, compared with the
nation’s 35 million power and 11 million gas buyers.  Market Dominance  The markets are dominated by former monopolies, according
to the latest  Commission de Regulation de l’Energie  figures.
Alternative suppliers including Direct Energie had 8.3 percent
of the household power market by volume at the end of June and
about a fifth of the market for businesses. For gas in the same
period, these suppliers had 12 percent of the household market
and 45 percent of businesses, according to CRE.  Direct Energie buys about 80 percent of its power from EDF
nuclear output and gas from spot markets, its 2012 report shows.  GDF Suez, the former gas monopoly, said this week it would
push to gain more power customers after tariffs rose. The
utility is offering households fixed prices for two years and is
aiming for 5 million household electricity customers within five
years compared with 1.6 million at the end of August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  