-- Dodd-Frank Change Among Bills Overtaken by Shutdown
-- B y   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2013-10-03T15:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/dodd-frank-change-among-bills-overtaken-by-shutdown.html
Measures affecting Dodd-Frank Act
requirements and the first bill to increase U.S. port dredging
since 2007 won’t move forward in Congress while the government
remains shut down, according to two Republican leadership aides.  The House probably won’t move legislation on any topic
other than government funding until a deal is reached to end the
current impasse, according to the aides, who spoke on condition
of not being identified in discussing legislative strategy.  One of the Dodd-Frank bills would narrow what’s known as
the swaps push-out rule, which requires insured  depository
institutions  to hand their swaps activities to affiliates. The
other would require the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
to identify potential effects on investors before setting rules
to implement the law passed in 2010.  Both those bills, H.R. 992 and H.R. 2374, were so far along
that an open meeting was set for Sept. 28 to determine how many
amendments would be debated on the floor of the  House of
Representatives . The meeting was put off indefinitely.  The House had tentatively set aside part of next week to
debate the port-dredging measure, H.R. 3080. The shutdown and
efforts to resolve the impasse have clouded that schedule.  At least 20 Republicans have said they would support a
clean spending bill, enough to guarantee passage if Democrats
also supported such a measure. There’s no indication House
Speaker  John Boehner , who has sought to defund or delay the 2010
health care law known as Obamacare, would bring such a bill to
the House floor.  Important Diversion  “We’re going through something now that’s pretty important
to the nation,” Transportation and Infrastructure Committee
Chairman Bill Shuster said in an interview. “Hopefully it won’t
throw us too far off” the timeframe for the dredging bill, said
the Pennsylvania Republican.  Among the projects that the measure would authorize are
dredging of the Sabine-Neches Waterway on the Texas-Louisiana
border and deepening the Port of Savannah, which accounted for
about 11 percent of U.S. container exports over the past fiscal
year, according to the Georgia Ports Authority’s website.  The Sabine-Neches dredging would increase import and export
capacity for Texas and Louisiana refineries owned by companies
including  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Cheniere
Energy Inc. (LNG) , and Motiva Enterprises LLC.  The dredging bill would “enhance efficiencies of our
refinery in  Port Arthur , Texas,” said  Bill Day , a Valero
spokesman.  Deepening Savannah’s harbor will cut shipping costs for
companies such as  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , a Peoria, Illinois-based
machinery manufacturer which cited the port in choosing to build
a $200 million plant in Athens, Georgia.  Spending Authorization  The legislation would authorize the federal government to
spend about $779 million of the $1.1 billion needed for Sabine-Neches dredging, while contributing $461 million to the $662
million Savannah project.  If the shutdown persists, it may also delay House
consideration of a bill to block the implementation of federal
regulations dealing with hydraulic fracturing, H.R. 2728, as
well as action on border-security legislation.  Both issues were mentioned in a  Sept. 6 memo  to House
Republicans from Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican.  Also in limbo: the appointment of House members to a
conference committee that will work out differences between the
House and Senate versions of a measure dealing with  farm
subsidies , H.R. 2642. House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio
Republican, has the final say on the Republicans who’ll handle
that task. He plays a key role in the impasse and the effort to
resolve it and end the resulting shutdown.  “The question is when will the speaker have time to focus
on that, given all the other issues going on,” House
Agriculture Chairman  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican, said
in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  