-- Dollar Falls to 8-Month Low on Government Shutdown; Real Drops
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-10-03T21:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/dollar-remains-lower-losses-as-jobless-data-don-t-sway-fed-view.html
The dollar slid to the weakest level
in eight months versus the euro as the U.S. government’s partial
shutdown added to concern economic growth will slow and prompt
the  Federal Reserve  to delay reducing monetary stimulus.  The greenback remained lower versus  Europe ’s shared
currency after claims for jobless benefits rose last week. The
17-nation currency was also supported after a report showed
 services output  in the region expanded more than initially
estimated last month. The Brazilian real declined after Moody’s
 Investors (JSIABOND)  Service lowered its outlook on the nation’s credit
rating to stable from positive.  “The shutdown is keeping investors wary of exposure to the
dollar and dollar assets,”  Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in
 Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth Foreign
Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview. “The shutdown
itself is negative for the economy and the dollar, but it also
raises serious doubts about lawmakers’ ability to come to an
agreement before we get a drawn-out battle on the debt
ceiling.”  The dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3619 per euro at 5
p.m. in  New York , reaching the weakest since Feb. 4. The U.S.
currency fell 0.1 percent to 97.27 yen.  Japan ’s currency lost
0.2 percent to 132.46 per euro.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s G-7 Volatility Index fell to 8.68
percent, almost the lowest since Sept. 18, the date on which the
gauge touched a nine-month low.  Peso, Krona  The real declined from its highest level in two weeks after
Moody’s cited rising debt and weak growth. The currency declined
0.7 percent to 2.2069 per dollar after earlier sliding 1
percent, the most in a week.  The Mexican peso weakened versus most of its 16 most-traded
counterparts after  consumer confidence  in the nation decreased
to 94.1 in September, falling short of an estimate of 96.4 based
on an economist  survey  conducted by Bloomberg. The peso slipped
0.3 percent to 13.1586 per dollar.  Sweden’s krona rose as Stockholm-based Swedbank AB
published an index based on responses from purchasing managers
in the services industry that was 53.3 last month from 53.7 in
August. A reading above 50 signals expansion and the measure has
been above that level since July.  The currency strengthened 0.5 percent to 6.3458 per dollar
after reaching the highest since Sept. 20.  Euro Measure  The 14-day relative strength index for the euro versus the
greenback rose to 70.7, exceeding the 70 level some traders
consider a sign an asset has risen too much, too quickly, and is
about to change direction.  Euro-area services, measured by an index based on a survey
of purchasing managers in the services industry, rose to 52.2,
exceeding a Sept. 23 estimate of 52.1 and up from 50.7 in
August, London-based Markit Economics said today. The gauge has
been above 50, indicating growth, for two months.  Applications (INJCJC)  for U.S. unemployment benefits increased by
1,000 to 308,000 in the week ended Sept. 28, a Labor Department
report showed today in Washington. The median  forecast  of 50
economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for a rise to 315,000.  Labor said that it won’t issue the September payrolls
report tomorrow as initially scheduled because of the partial
government shutdown.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the
performance of the greenback against 10 leading global
currencies, was fell 0.1 percent to 1,007.87 after reaching the
lowest level since Sept. 19.  Washington Gridlock  Ohio Republican  John Boehner  and other congressional
leaders met U.S. President  Barack Obama  for more than an hour
yesterday in Washington. Obama has said he won’t negotiate with
Republicans on the budget until they reopen the government and
raise the borrowing limit without conditions.  House Republican leaders plan to bring up a measure to
raise the debt limit as soon as next week as part of a new
attempt to force Obama to negotiate on the budget, according to
three people with knowledge of the strategy.  “The debt ceiling and government shutdown are big reasons
why the dollar isn’t trading well versus the euro,”  Richard Franulovich , the chief currency strategist for the northern
hemisphere at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Markets reacted temporarily to the
jobless numbers, but the bigger focus is on the government
reaching a resolution.”  The yen declined as  figures released  by the Ministry of
Finance showed Japanese investors bought 672.1 billion yen of
overseas bonds and notes in the week ended Sept. 27.  Japan Yields  Investors are seeking higher yields as the  Bank of Japan 
drives down  interest rates  with more than 7 trillion yen of
monthly bond purchases to defeat deflation.  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $30.7 billion, from $29.3 billion yesterday, according
to data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the dollar-yen  exchange rate  amounted to $6.1 billion, the largest share of
trades at 20 percent. Options on the euro-dollar rate totaled
$4.7 billion.  Dollar-yen options trading was 25 percent more than the
average for the past five Thursdays at a similar time in the
day, according to Bloomberg analysis. Euro-dollar options
trading was 21 percent more than average.  The greenback has gained 2.1 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro was the
biggest gainer, climbing 5.8 percent. The yen led all decliners
with a 10.1 percent decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  