-- The Secret to Ending Washington’s Standoff
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-03T22:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/the-secret-to-ending-washington-s-standoff.html
House Speaker  John Boehner ’s
 suggestion  that he’s determined to avoid a federal debt default,
and that he’ll pass a measure to that effect with Democratic
votes, if necessary, gives both sides in the great Washington
standoff a possible way out. To make it work, each will have to
give a little as well as take a little. It won’t be elegant, but
the prospect of lifting the threat of a ruinous default --
preferably, once and for all -- makes that a secondary
consideration.  Boehner and the Tea Party  Republicans  who have been calling
the shots up to now have all but given up trying to end or even
delay the Affordable Care Act. Reports of children being turned
away from federal cancer-treatment programs are aligning the
public against them. Polls say that Republicans are getting more
of the blame than Democrats, and hopes for big Republican wins
in 2014 are diminishing. The beginnings of a  backlash  could turn
into something vicious if the calamity of a default should come
to pass in two weeks and Boehner can’t plausibly blame President
 Barack Obama .  That’s why Boehner is budging and  House Republicans  are
hinting they’ll bite on a “grand bargain.” For sure, the term
doesn’t mean what it used to -- finding $4 trillion in revenue
and entitlement cuts spread over 10 years. Now, it might mean
little more than lifting the debt ceiling and funding the
government for another year. No matter. Boehner’s dug-in troops
are looking to deal.  Democrats should seize on this opening with a zealous (and
self-interested) display of reasonableness. Agreeing to repeal
the $3 billion-a-year medical devices tax that partially funds
Obamacare would be a relatively painless  concession , even if
dubious on the merits. A willingness to talk about modest tax
and entitlement reforms would help, too.  Obama has already said he’s open to this. For instance, the
administration could agree to let companies repatriate overseas
profits at a lower  tax rate , devoting most of the hundreds of
billions in new revenue to a permanent reduction in corporate
tax rates. The president could also agree to tweak the inflation
calculation for Medicare and Social Security cost-of-living
adjustments. Neither would be a stretch for the president, who
has  previously called  for cutting corporate taxes and
 overhauling  the inflation formula.  In return, Republicans should be asked to move quickly. The
vote Boehner says he’s willing to have should happen at once,
combined with a clean continuing resolution to fund and reopen
the government. His party should also be asked to surrender the
debt ceiling as a political weapon -- not just this time, but
for good. Agreement on such an arrangement isn’t as hopeless as
you might think. After all, the debt-ceiling weapon is
backfiring. If Republicans are allowed to say they got something
out of this fight, and Obama can claim he didn’t negotiate over
the debt ceiling, it serves both their interests to set the
doomsday machine aside once and for all. The country would be
the huge winner.  The choreography could be messy. Both sides must refrain
from exulting over the defeat of the other, which is a lot to
ask of politicians. It could happen nonetheless, because it’s in
the interests of both parties. Deficits and the debt would come
down. Some 800,000 federal employees would return to work. The
nation’s creditors would know that they will always be repaid.
Best of all, the full faith and credit of the U.S. would never
again be brought into question for no good reason.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 