-- EasyJet Annual Profit Rises as Business Appeal Draws Traffic
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-10-03T10:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/easyjet-full-year-profit-surges-as-business-appeal-draws-traffic.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Europe’s second-biggest
discount carrier, said full-year profit increased at least 48
percent as the U.K. company attracted more corporate and leisure
customers on routes where network carriers are withdrawing.  Pretax profit for the 12 months to Sept. 30 will be in the
range of 470 million pounds to 480 million pounds ($763 million
to $779 million), EasyJet, which had year-earlier earnings of
317 million pounds, said today in a statement. That compares
with the 471 million-pound average estimate of 20 analysts.  EasyJet is ramping up efforts to draw business passengers
with allocated seating, flexible tickets and higher frequencies
on key routes, and began fast-tracking flexi-fare clients in
May. While cuts at network airlines helped lure 10 million
corporate travelers in 2012, the Luton-based carrier may face a
more hostile environment through the winter as rivals like
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  slash fares and others boost capacity.  “The winter isn’t going to be easy for any of the
operators, there is a general competitive increase, but EasyJet
has tools at its disposal to offset the pricing pressure,” said
Donal O’Neill, an analyst for  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin.
“The largest part of EasyJet’s growth has been taking market
share from bigger players.”  ‘Tight Control’  EasyJet rose 2.1 percent to 1,342 pence before trading
little changed at 10:59 a.m. in  London . The stock has risen 71
percent in 2013 for a value of 5.2 billion pounds.  “EasyJet has delivered a strong performance in the last
twelve months due to management action to generate value to our
customers and maintain a tight control of costs,” Chief
Executive Officer Carolyn McCall said in the statement.  Under McCall, EasyJet has targeted corporate connections,
multiplying frequencies on services attractive to business
clients while adding new routes from London to Moscow and
between Milan and Rome Fiumicino airport.  A potential 86 million short-haul passengers flying from
 Europe ’s top 20 airports each year could be surrendered to
EasyJet by network carriers because they don’t feed lucrative
long-haul services, the executive said in July.  Revenue per seat grew about 6 percent at a constant
currency rates in the fiscal fourth quarter, driven by sales in
July and August, the airline said. EasyJet, which had previously
given a 450 million pound to 480 million pound range for full-year pretax profit, said it has sold over 25 percent of seats
available for the first half of the new year.  Capacity Threat  Still, the carrier may face tougher competition this winter
with intra-European capacity expected to grow as much as 6
percent, according to Deutsche Bank analysts Anand Date and Geof Collyer. This compares with two years of negative or minimal
growth, the analysts said.  “We think outlook is more important than usual this year
because out early indicators suggest that winter 2013-2014 is
going to be challenging,” the analysts said. “We remain
relatively cautious for fiscal year 2014.”  Ryanair, Europe’s biggest discount airline, said in
September that it may miss its full-year profit target, citing
greater price competition and some capacity increases. The Irish
carrier said it planned to slash airfares and ground jets from
November through March.  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  also trimmed
forecasts after the summer heat wave weighed on bookings.  EasyJet said today that it is 67 percent hedged at an
average price of $984 a metric ton of  jet fuel  for the year
ending September 2014. At current prices and exchange rates the
first-half fuel bill will be as much as 30 million pounds higher
than a year earlier, with exchange rates having an additional 10
million-pound negative impact.  The airline is 78 percent hedged on its dollar requirements
at an average rate of $1.57.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  