-- EDF May Agree to U.K. Nuclear Deal in Weeks: Minister
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-10-03T16:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/edf-may-agree-to-u-k-nuclear-price-deal-in-weeks-minister-says.html
The U.K. may agree with  Electricite
de France SA (EDF)  on guaranteeing power prices within weeks, paving
the way for the nation’s first new nuclear plant in two decades.  “We’re not quite there yet, but I hope we will be in the
next few weeks,” Energy Minister  Michael Fallon  told the
Financial Times. A spokesman for Fallon confirmed the comments.  EDF has been in talks with the U.K. on the price for more
than a year and delayed an  investment decision  on the plant at
Hinkley Point in southwest  England  originally planned for 2012.  The U.K. is trying to encourage the construction of new
plants while curbing  greenhouse gases  and household bills. EDF’s
plan to build two  Areva SA (AREVA)  reactors at the site hinges on the
rate it gets for power under a so-called contract-for-difference
that’s agreed on with the government and paid for by consumers.  EDF is seeking a strike price of 95 pounds ($154) to 99.50
pounds a megawatt-hour for the plant, a person familiar with the
talks said in February. The FT today said the utility is seeking
at least 93 pounds and the government isn’t prepared to offer
much more than 90 pounds. In comparison, the month-ahead power
price in the U.K. averaged about 49 pounds in the past year.  Sue Fletcher, an EDF spokeswoman, declined to comment on
prices or talks. The Department for Energy and Climate Change
said in a statement that a deal must offer “value for money.”  Construction Risk  “Negotiations remain ongoing between government and EDF on
the potential terms of an investment contract,” the energy
department said. “ A contract will only be offered if it is
value for money, fair and affordable.”  A 90-pound strike price isn’t likely to be acceptable to
EDF if they’re taking on the full risk of construction, said
 Lakis Athanasiou , a utilities analyst at Agency Partners LLP.  “If they are accepting that, they’ll have ameliorations in
the contract with construction risk being placed onto
government,” Athanasiou said. “If government takes on
construction risk, with nothing falling on EDF, then 90 pounds
would be very, very acceptable” and 75 pounds enough, he said.  Opposition Labour Party proposals to freeze retail power
prices for 20 months if it is elected in a 2015 poll won’t
likely affect Hinkley Point, Athanasiou said.  “The decision to commit on the back of the CFD contract
would have to take place before the election to move forward
with the plans EDF have,” Matt Brown, head of  Poyry Oyj (POY1V) ’s U.K.
management consulting business, said today by phone. “But
investments thereafter by EDF in other new nuclear plants might
be affected. Increasing regulatory risk at a time when they’re
taking a long term and high-capital decision isn’t helpful.”  Chinese Partner  Brown said Poyry’s calculations suggest the strike price
needs to be just above 100 pounds, assuming a 40-year contract.  EDF is in talks to allow  China  General Nuclear Power Group
to take as much as 49 percent in Hinkley Point, the FT reported.  The involvement of a Chinese partner is “essential” as
the country has recent experience of building Areva’s EPR
reactors, said George Borovas, head of international nuclear
projects at law firm Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP. “From
a financing and a project development point of view, I would
expect that lenders to the project and investors in the project
would seek and welcome this,” he said in a phone interview.  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  last month held meetings in China
with businesses including China General Nuclear Power Corp.,
China National Nuclear Corp. and State Nuclear Power Technology
Corp., according to the energy department. The U.K. has also
signed a  memorandum  of understanding to allow Rosatom,  Russia ’s
state atomic energy company, to invest in British projects.  “The U.K. is open for business and actively welcomes
inward investment to our energy sector,” the energy department
said in an e-mailed statement. “Any energy company, nuclear or
otherwise, that had an interest would need to meet all
independent regulatory standards required in the U.K. and EU.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  