-- Leighton Falls Most Since 2011 on Iraq Corruption Report
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-03T08:46:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/leighton-says-nothing-new-in-newspaper-bribery-reports.html
Leighton Holdings Ltd. (LEI)  shares fell
the most in more than two years after the Age newspaper said
former executives knew of alleged corruption at the company.
 Australia ’s biggest builder said the revelations weren’t new.  Leighton  allegedly  paid bribes to win contracts and former
chief executive officers Wal King and David Stewart were aware
of the conduct, according to the report, versions of which were
published in other  Fairfax Media Ltd. (FXJ)  papers. King denied the
allegation and a spokeswoman for Stewart declined to comment.  Leighton has been under investigation by the Australian
Federal Police since at least February 2012 after the company
reported potentially illegal activity at its subsidiary Leighton
Offshore Pte. in Iraq. The alleged activity involved payments
the subsidiary may have made “in connection with work to expand
offshore loading facilities for  Iraq ’s crude oil exports,” the
company said at the time.  “Leighton takes these accusations seriously and is deeply
concerned about the suggestions of impropriety,” the Sydney-based company said in a regulatory statement today. “We are not
aware of any new allegations or instances of breach of our
ethics.”  The stock dropped 10 percent, its biggest slump since April
14, 2011, to A$17.54 at the close in Sydney. The yield on
Leighton’s 5.95 percent bonds due November 2022 rose 46 basis
points, the most since they began trading in November, to 6.482
percent, according to BNP Paribas prices.  Hochtief Slump  “Being in a negative news story is likely to impact
sentiment toward the stock. The extent of that depends on how
long the story stays around,” Heath Andrews, an analyst at
Royal Bank of Canada in  Melbourne , said by phone. “It tempts
retail investors to sell out and could spook institutional
shareholders as well.”  Hochtief AG (HOT) , which has a controlling 56 percent stake in
the Australian company,  fell 7.9 percent , the most in almost two
years, in Frankfurt trading yesterday after the report was
published on websites. Today, shares of the German builder rose
0.7 percent to 60.59 euros as of 10:39 a.m.  The reports quote from an alleged memo from Stewart dated
Nov. 23, 2010. Former Leighton International managing director
David Savage said he and King knew of an alleged A$42 million
bribe paid in relation to work in Iraq, the newspaper quoted the
memo as saying.  ‘Didn’t Exist’  Stewart was chief executive designate at the time, after
King announced his retirement after 13 years in the company’s
top job on Sept. 13, 2010.  King said by phone that he had no prior knowledge of any
wrongdoing at the company, that the Australian Federal Police
hadn’t contacted him about the case, and that the memo quoted
didn’t exist.  “We had compliance committees, ethics committees,
oversight committees. Every effort was supplied to make sure the
company was compliant,” he said. Stewart was acting chief
executive officer from November 2010 onwards, he said.  Sarah Conway, a spokeswoman for Laing O’Rourke Plc’s
Australian division where Stewart is now chief executive
officer, declined to comment on his behalf. David Price, a
spokesman for Vancouver-based  KazaX Minerals Inc. (KZX)  where Savage
is chief executive, didn’t respond to a telephone message.  Fiona Tyndall, a spokeswoman for Leighton, also declined to
comment on the allegations about former executives, citing the
ongoing police investigation. “Over recent years the management
structure of the business has been substantially changed,” the
company said in its statement today.  Crude Exports  Leighton Offshore billed Iraq’s state-owned South Oil Co.
$733 million for a two-and-a-half year project to more than
double exports from Iraq’s crude oil export terminal, according
to the  company’s website .  South Oil Co. also paid Leighton $518 million for a
separate project to stabilize and expand the existing crude
terminal,  according to the website . Leighton had revenues of
A$19 billion in the 2012 calendar year and had a contract book
valued at A$40 billion at June 30.  The Age newspaper quoted Stewart’s alleged memo as saying
Savage reported Leighton had paid kickbacks to subcontractor
Unaoil in relation to the Iraq work. An A$87 million contract
paid to Unaoil had a real value less than half the amount
billed, the paper quoted the memo as saying, citing Savage.  Leighton Offshore  paid Unaoil $80 million  for building an
onshore pipeline and clearing unexploded bombs as part of the
Iraq oil terminal project, according to the subcontractor’s
website.  Manager Fired  A receptionist at Unaoil’s Monaco headquarters office said
no one was available to comment, and a message earlier left on
the company’s answer phone outside of office hours wasn’t
returned. Unaoil is owned by Singapore-based  UnaEnergy Pte .  Leighton said in July 2012 it had dismissed a senior
manager after a review of projects in Iraq carried out by the
subsidiary “identified instances of failures to meet governance
standards in respect of the proper documentation of contractual
arrangements.”  Leighton also said it wouldn’t comment on a case relating
to a barging contract in  Indonesia , because the matter is before
the courts.  It wasn’t known if there had been “any wrongful or illegal
conduct, or whether there will be any adverse financial
consequences for the company” in relation to the Iraq case, the
company said in an April 18 regulatory statement.  The Australian Federal Police, which investigates offshore
matters, is “treating the Leighton case as a priority, and we
are working to ensure that the matter is thoroughly
investigated,” the police said in a  statement on its website .  Andre Khoury, a spokesman for the Australian Securities &
Investments Commission, the country’s stock market regulator,
said by e-mail that the agency didn’t enforce the laws governing
bribery of foreign public officials and the matter was being
managed by the Australian Federal Police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  