-- Patuano Assumes Telecom Italia CEO Role After Bernabe Quits
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-04T17:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/telecom-italia-s-patuano-assumes-ceo-role-after-bernabe-resigns.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chief Operating
Officer Marco Patuano will take over responsibilities left
behind by Chief Executive Officer Franco Bernabe, who stepped
down after clashing with shareholders over strategic directions
at  Italy ’s biggest phone company.  The 65-year-old Bernabe, also chairman of the board,
resigned yesterday at a directors meeting in Milan. Patuano, 49,
was given executive powers temporarily, while Deputy Chairman
Aldo Minucci will run the board until a chairman is identified,
the company said in a statement, describing Patuano’s title as
managing director and chief executive officer. No reason was
given for Bernabe’s departure.  Patuano’s priorities will include agreeing with biggest
shareholder  Telefonica SA (TEF)  -- which with its partners owns a 22.4
percent stake in the Milan-based carrier -- over strategy in
 Brazil  and how to cut debt to avert a downgrade by rating
companies to junk status. Bernabe presided over a more than 70
percent slump in Telecom Italia shares that wiped out some 30
billion euros ($41 billion) in market value.  “Telecom Italia has strong potentials,” Director Gaetano Micciche said yesterday as he left the board meeting that lasted
almost five hours. “I am confident that the management is able
to develop it.”  Business Plan  Patuano will present a new business plan to the board on
Nov. 7, Giorgio Serao, national coordinator for the
telecommunications union Fistel-Cisl, said in a phone interview
after a meeting with the new CEO in  Rome . The company will
review the Latin American assets as part of the industrial plan,
Serao said.  The shares slipped 0.8 percent to close at 63.9 cents in
Milan, paring their gains to 10 percent since  Bloomberg News 
reported Sept. 27 that Bernabe was planning to step down.  The stock is down 6.4 percent this year and is headed for
its ninth consecutive annual decline. Its market value of 11.7
billion euros compared with 28.8 billion euros in adjusted debt
reported as of June 30.  Moody’s Investors Service said in August it may strip
Telecom Italia of its Baa3  rating , the lowest investment grade,
unless the carrier works on strengthening its balance sheet.
 Fitch Ratings , which ranks the debt an equivalent BBB-, said in
a statement today Bernabe’s departure reduces the number of
options for Telecom Italia because it also removes the
likelihood of a large capital increase.  Bernabe had considered proposing a stock sale of as much as
6 billion euros, with a first tranche of at least 3 billion
euros, people familiar with the matter have said.  Brazil Sale?  Telefonica, which tightened its grip over Telecom Italia
last week with a $1.2 billion cash-and-stock transaction to
gradually buy out its partners in holding company Telco SpA, is
against the plan. The Madrid-based carrier prefers a sale of
Telecom Italia’s Latin American assets to reduce debt, people
familiar with the matter have said. Other Telco investors are
 Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca
SpA. (MB)   Bernabe told a parliamentary hearing last week that
disposing of businesses in  Latin America  would hurt Telecom
Italia’s international profile.  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3)  is Brazil’s
second-largest wireless carrier with a market value of almost
$12 billion.  Bernabe will receive 3.7 million euros in severance pay and
an additional 2.9 million euros as part of a 12-month non-competition agreement.  Patuano, who studied at Bocconi University,  joined  Telecom
Italia in 1990. When the carrier started its mobile-phone unit,
TIM, and spun it off, he served as its chief financial officer.
He was named CFO of units TIM Brasil and Telecom Italia America
Latina SA in 2003. In 2006 he took over responsibilities for the
fixed-line business at Telecom Argentina SA before being
promoted to chief operating officer for the unit.  ‘Copernican Revolution’  In 2008, Bernabe recalled him back to Italy as CFO.  “Patuano has the right materials to lead a Copernican
revolution,” said  Oreste Pollicino , a professor at  Bocconi
University . “Telecom Italia has to finally play that role of an
innovation leader and for too long, that has been left aside.”  Other projects Patuano will take on to raise cash and
increase efficiency include a sale Telecom Italia’s wireless
towers, creating separate companies for its domestic consumer
and business services, and a spinoff of the carrier’s fixed-line
grid that was stalled partly by the political turmoil in Italy
that is threatening Prime Minister Enrico Letta’s five-month-old
administration.  A spinoff of the fixed-line network or sale of Tim would
take at least six to 12 months and is unlikely to ease pressure
on Telecom Italia’s debt ratings, Fitch said today.  Minucci, 67, has been on Telecom Italia’s board since 2007.
He served as chairman of Telco from 2007 until last year.  Patuano doesn’t have a lot of time, said  Roger Appleyard ,
head of global credit research at  RBC Capital Markets  in  London ,
who recommends selling Telecom Italia bonds.  “In the absence of an announcement that states Tim will be
sold or a rights issue will be undertaken, Moody’s is almost
certain to downgrade Telecom Italia to junk,” he said. “I
don’t see why they would bother waiting for third-quarter
results. Unless management tells Moody’s it will do inorganic A
or B, then we move to Ba1.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  