-- Telecom Italia’s Bernabe Quits After Losing Investor Support
-- B y   D a n i e l e   L e p i d o   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-03T19:05:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/telecom-italia-s-bernabe-quits-after-losing-shareholder-support.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chief Executive
Officer Franco Bernabe resigned after clashing with top
shareholders over his attempt to boost capital, ending a near
six-year tenure leading  Italy ’s biggest phone company.  Bernabe, 65, stepped down during a board meeting in Milan
today, Telecom Italia said in a statement. Chief Operating
Officer Marco Patuano was given executive powers temporarily,
while Deputy Chairman Aldo Minucci will run the board until a
chairman has been designated, according to a separate statement.  Bernabe presided over a more than 70 percent slump in
Telecom Italia shares that wiped out about 30 billion euros ($41
billion) in market value. Disagreements with biggest shareholder
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  -- which with its partners holds a 22.4 percent
stake -- over a potential capital increase and strategy in
 Brazil  stripped the CEO of support from the group that also
names most of Milan-based Telecom Italia’s board of directors.  “He took over a company with a big  debt burden  and a
declining domestic business and is now leaving a company faced
by those same problems,” Andres Bolumburu, a Madrid-based
analyst at Banco de Sabadell, said in an interview on Sept. 29.
“In all these years, he hasn’t found the right strategy to turn
around the business.”  Bernabe will receive 3.7 million euros in severance pay and
get an additional 2.9 million euros as part of a 12-month non-compete agreement.  Political Turmoil  A leadership change at Italy’s former state-owned phone
company -- whose assets the government considers strategic --
may add to the country’s political turmoil. Prime Minister
Enrico Letta won a confidence vote yesterday after  Silvio Berlusconi , a partner in the ruling coalition, backtracked on a
pledge to bring down the five-month-old government.  Telecom Italia rose 1.7 percent to 64.4 cents in Milan. The
stock has lost 5.7 percent this year and is headed for its ninth
consecutive annual decline. It has a market value of 11.8
billion euros, compared with 28.8 billion euros in adjusted debt
reported as of June 30.  Moody’s Investors Service said in August it may cut Telecom
Italia’s rating to junk, putting pressure on Bernabe to come up
with measures to strengthen the carrier’s balance sheet.  Bernabe had been considering proposing to Telecom Italia’s
board a capital increase of as much as 6 billion euros, with a
first tranche of at least 3 billion euros, people familiar with
the matter have said.  Telefonica Deal  Telefonica, which tightened its grip over Telecom Italia
last week with a $1.2 billion cash-and-stock transaction to
gradually buy out its partners in holding company Telco SpA, is
against a capital increase and prefers a sale of Latin American
assets to reduce debt, people familiar with the matter have
said. Telco’s other investors are  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) ,
 Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  and  Mediobanca SpA. (MB)   Bernabe told the parliamentary hearing last week that
disposing of businesses in  Latin America  would hurt Telecom
Italia’s international profile.  He favored growing in Latin America after putting Telecom
Italia’s Argentine business in order in 2010. His departure
removes an obstacle to a sale of the Brazilian unit  Tim
Participacoes SA (TIMP3) , the country’s second-largest wireless carrier
with a market value of $11.1 billion, a solution people familiar
with the matter have said is favored by Telefonica.  Other proposals to raise cash and increase efficiency
include a sale Telecom Italia’s mobile-phone towers, creating
separate companies for its domestic consumer and business
services, and a spinoff of the carrier’s fixed-line grid, people
familiar with the matter have said.  Latin-America Legacy  Bernabe’s legacy will include bolstering Telecom Italia’s
Latin American units to offset a slump in business in its home
market. In 2010, Telecom Italia boosted to majority its holding
in the company that controlled Telecom  Argentina  with the
purchase of an 8 percent stake from the Werthein family,
resolving legal disputes with its local partner. In Brazil, Tim
is winning market share against rivals including Telefonica and
 Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)   Best known in Italy for turning around oil company  Eni SpA (ENI) ,
overseeing its privatization and making it one of the world’s
largest energy companies by market value, Bernabe had a previous
stint at Telecom Italia.  He joined the company in November 1998 after about six
years at Eni only to be ousted following Telecom Italia’s
takeover by Roberto Colaninno’s Olivetti SpA in 1999. Bernabe
returned to Telecom Italia in 2007 -- after he founded FB Group
and merged it with Rothschild -- with a mandate to shrink the
company’s ballooning debt.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniele Lepido in Milan at 
 dlepido1@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  