-- Emerging-Market Selloff Boosts Hedge Demand, UBS Says
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2013-10-03T10:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/emerging-market-selloff-boosts-hedge-demand-ubs-says-correct-.html
(Corrects job title, adding word “solutions,” in second
paragraph of story published yesterday.)  Companies with business units in
emerging nations are stepping up measures to protect against
foreign-exchange losses following declines in currencies from
the rand to the rupee, according to  UBS AG. (UBSN)   “Historically in  emerging markets  the behavior of the
currency has tied in well with the behavior of the economy,”
Andrew Kaufmann, global head of foreign exchange solutions at
UBS in London, said in a phone interview yesterday. “The
world’s a bit more nuanced now. Those clients who have the
flexibility in their hedging policy to vary the hedging ratios
are considering raising them or have done so already.”  Currencies of developing economies slid against the dollar
last quarter as the prospect of the Federal Reserve announcing a
withdrawal of monetary stimulus reduced the amount of cash
available for pursuing higher-yielding assets. The Indonesian
rupiah tumbled 12 percent while India’s rupee and Turkey’s lira
slid to record lows.  South Africa ’s rand declined 1.5 percent.  Unilever, the world’s second-largest consumer-goods maker,
on Sept. 30 blamed weakening currencies in Indonesia, Brazil,
South Africa and India for a sales slowdown, following  Adidas AG (ADS) 
and  Prada SpA (1913)  in saying that the euro’s strength eroded profit.  “There are many corporates that have a current set-up,
particularly with balance-sheet exposures, of not hedging,”
said UBS’s Kaufmann. “For some of them, it’s a matter of re-evaluating the situation. It’s not an overnight change. It does
take a while to adapt.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  