-- Emerging Stocks Increase for Third Day on China Services
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v ,   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-03T22:18:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/emerging-stocks-advance-for-third-day-as-peso-climbs-on-moody-s.html
Emerging-market stocks gained for a
third day after a gauge of Chinese services industries rose. The
real fell the most in a week after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered Brazil’s rating outlook.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index added 0.7 percent to
1,005.25 in New York. Benchmark measures in  Turkey (XU100)  and  India 
rose more than 1.4 percent, while  China  Unicom ( Hong Kong (HSCEI) ) Ltd.
and China Telecom Corp. jumped at least 7 percent in Hong Kong
after a report said the government may cut mobile
interconnection fees. Brazil’s Ibovespa was set for the biggest
weekly slump in a month and the real lost 0.7 percent.  A Chinese services-industry index rose to a six-month high,
adding to signs that the world’s second-biggest economy will
sustain a rebound after a two-quarter slowdown. The iShares MSCI
Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund slid for the first time in
three days as data showed weaker-than-forecast growth in service
industries and concern grew that the U.S. political impasse may
lead to a recession. The EM gauge trades at 11.4 times estimated
earnings, a 23 percent discount to the developed-market index.  “Investors are increasing exposure to  emerging markets  as
they offer more growth potential,” Brian Jacobsen, who helps
oversee $226 billion as chief portfolio strategist at Wells
Fargo Advantage Funds in Menomonee Falls,  Wisconsin , said by
phone today. “I don’t expect anything happening in the U.S. to
change that trajectory. It’s not going to reduce revenue for
emerging markets companies.”  All 10  industry groups  in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
climbed, with technology, health care and financial companies
adding more than 1 percent. Stock exchanges in China and South
Korea are closed for holidays.  Chinese Services  The emerging-market ETF fell 0.4 percent to $41.57. The
Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility
Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and expectations
of price swings, rose 2.8 percent to 25.41.  The Chinese services index increased to 55.4 in September
from 53.9 in August, the Beijing-based National Bureau of
Statistics and Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
today. The level of 50 indicates an expansion, adding to signs
that the world’s second-biggest economy will sustain a rebound
after a two-quarter slowdown.  The S&P BSE Sensex Index  jumped 2 percent  in Mumbai, the
most in two weeks, as materials producers and consumer companies
climbed amid speculation a strengthening rupee will lure foreign
investors. The Indian currency appreciated 1.2 percent to 61.74
to the dollar, the biggest advance among 24 emerging-market
peers monitored by Bloomberg.  Turkey, Brazil  Turkiye  Garanti (GARAN)  Bankasi AS, the largest Turkish lender by
market value, led gains on the Borsa Istanbul National 100
Index, which rose 1.5 percent. Garanti climbed 1.3 percent after
slumping 4.1 percent to the lowest level since Sept. 13
yesterday. The government is selling $1.25 billion of five-year
Islamic bonds today, according to a person with direct knowledge
of the transaction, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private.  PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes  led
homebuilders lower in Sao Paulo. The stock fell 4.1 percent
while the BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index snapped a two-day
advance.  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , the power utility known
as Cesp, dropped 3 percent, the lowest closing level since Sept.
4. Credit Suisse Group AG cut its recommendation on the stock to
the equivalent of hold.  Value ‘Pockets’  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has lost 4.7 percent this
year, compared with a 15 percent gain in the MSCI World Index of
developed-nation shares. The developing-country gauge  trades  at
11.4 times projected 12-month earnings, below the 14.8 multiple
for the MSCI World, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There is a window of opportunity for global emerging
markets to stage a rebound after a challenging few months,”
 Benoit Anne , the head of emerging-markets strategy at Societe
Generale SA in  London , said by e-mail. “I particularly like EM
fixed income, where I think there are some interesting pockets
of value. Russia OFZ is a good example,” he said, referring to
the ruble-denominated government bonds.  The yield on Russian securities due in January 2023, which
fell 5 basis points to 7.26 percent today, is up 78 basis points
since its 2013 low in May.  The Philippine peso advanced the most since Sept. 19 after
Moody’s raised the nation by one level to Baa3, the lowest
investment grade, with a positive outlook. The country won
investment-grade credit scores from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings earlier this year.  Moody’s Ratings  Moody’s lowered  Brazil ’s rating outlook to stable from
positive, citing deteriorating debt and investment ratios and
evidence the economy is going through a lower-growth period.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland companies
listed in Hong Kong advanced 1.8 percent, the most since Sept.
9. Unicom, the nation’s second-largest mobile carrier, jumped
the most since August 2011 and China Telecom posted its biggest
rally since 2008. The companies may see their interconnection
fees for calls through  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  halved, the Economy &
Nation Weekly reported today, citing a person it didn’t
identify.  “Emerging markets are doing well on the back of strong
service PMI in China, Philippines upgrade to investment grade”
by Moody’s Investors Service,  Michael Ganske , the head of
emerging markets at Rogge Global Partners Plc in London, said by
e-mail. “A long-term U.S. shutdown or even a technical default
is not priced or even considered for the time being.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Daliah Merzaban at 
 dmerzaban@bloomberg.net  