-- Herbalife Drops as Short Squeeze Risk Recedes With Ackman Puts
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-03T20:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/herbalife-drops-as-short-squeeze-risk-recedes-with-ackman-puts.html
Herbalife Ltd. (HLF)  tumbled the most in
four months after  Bill Ackman  cut his equity short stake,
replacing the bearish wager with put options in a move that
deterred traders from betting against the hedge-fund manager.  Herbalife fell 6.6 percent to $68.25 today, the biggest
retreat since May 22. The Cayman Islands-based company’s  share
price  has more than doubled this year as about 18 percent of
Herbalife’s shares outstanding were sold short as of Oct. 1,
according to Markit, a London-based data provider. Ackman
alleges that Herbalife is an illegal pyramid scheme, which the
company has repeatedly denied.  Ackman’s decision to replace his short position with put
contracts that give the right to sell the stock limits his risk
against a short squeeze, while still allowing him to profit if
he is right about Herbalife’s business model, according to Alec Levine at Newedge Group SA in New York. That removes an upward
pressure on the stock as buyers are no longer able to bet that
Ackman will buy back Herbalife shares to cover his shorts.  “Short positions are often the fuel for why stocks go
higher -- the guys who are short cover because they can’t take
the pain and you have other guys buying the stock just to bust
the short,” Levine, an equity-derivatives strategist at
Newedge, said in a phone interview today. “Now that there’s no
longer this enormous pressure on Ackman to cover his short, the
buyers who think they can squeeze him are not there any more.”  ‘Reasonable Time’  In a letter to Pershing Square Capital Management LP’s
investors, Ackman, who is taking a loss on his short sales, said
he replaced a portion of his original bearish position, that was
valued at about $1.5 billion, with long-term put options. The
move lets Pershing still make money if the company fails
“within a reasonable time frame” even as it reached an all-time high last month.  Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the short seller’s letter or the trading in the stock.  Pershing Square was looking to protect itself against a
short squeeze, Ackman wrote. In a short sale, an investor
borrows stock and then sells the shares in anticipation of
returning them at a lower price in the future. A short squeeze
occurs when other investors begin buying the same stock, pushing
its price up and forcing the short seller to buy back the
shares, possibly at a loss.  Ackman declined to comment beyond the letter or elaborate
on the move, which reduces the equity short position held by
Pershing Square to 12 percent from 16 percent of the firm’s
$10.8 billion portfolio, he told investors. Pershing funds
declined by more than 5 percent in the third quarter and were
little changed, net of all fees, for the first nine months of
the year, according to the letter.  ‘Positive Developments’  Ackman has accused Herbalife of swindling unsophisticated
consumers with false get-rich promises using overpriced products
that hide a pyramid scheme. He has urged U.S. regulators,
elected officials and community activists to help shut it down.  “We have not learned any facts that are inconsistent with
our belief that the Company is a pyramid scheme that engages in
unlawful and deceptive marketing practices,” Ackman wrote in
his letter. “In fact, there have been a number of materially
positive developments that increase the likelihood of regulatory
intervention and the Company’s closure.”  Operators of pyramid schemes typically seek to make money
by recruiting new members who pay fees to existing members
rather than relying on just the sale of goods and services. The
Federal Trade Commission has said modern pyramid schemes can use
products to hide their true intent.  While short selling in Herbalife has retreated from a
record 27 percent at the end of 2012, it is still more than six
times the average of bearish bets in the Russell 1000 Index,
Markit data show. Herbalife is the 14th most-shorted stock in
the equity index.  “From this point forward Herbalife will trade more on its
own merits and be less of a billionaire battlefield,” Levine
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  