-- Merkel Set for Talks to Bridge Differences: Policy Guide
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-10-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/merkel-set-for-talks-to-bridge-differences-policy-guide.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  will meet
with leaders of the opposition  Social Democrats  today in a bid
to lay the ground for a new German government, 12 days after she
won her party’s best election victory since 1990.  Merkel is due to join top officials from her  Christian
Democratic Union  and their Bavarian sister party, the  Christian
Social Union , at 1 p.m. in Berlin to hold exploratory talks with
the SPD on a possible coalition. Merkel’s bloc also meet  Green
party  officials on Oct. 10, though leaders of the CDU/CSU have
said they prefer to govern with the  Social Democrats .  The haggling could last for months as the parties seek to
bridge differences on taxes, the labor market, euro-crisis
strategy, energy, childcare and rents. The SPD governed with
Merkel in a so-called grand coalition from 2005 to 2009.  The SPD convened a mini-congress of about 200 delegates on
Sept. 27 that approved exploratory discussions. A coalition
agreement would need to be backed by a ballot of the SPD’s
470,000 members.  While the SPD could ratify any final deal at a Nov. 14-16
party meeting in Leipzig, its general secretary, Andrea Nahles,
speculated this week that talks could run until December or
January. The previous grand coalition wasn’t sworn in until 64
days after the election.  Below are a selection of the main policy issues separating
Merkel’s bloc, the SPD and the Greens:  TAXES:  Possibly the most complex knot to untie, with the main
parties at loggerheads on the issue.  The SPD, which campaigned on a platform of social justice,
wants to raise taxes to address what it says is a growing wealth
gap and generate revenue for education infrastructure.  The top income-tax rates are 42 percent for those earning
from about 53,000 euros ($71,650) and 45 percent for those
earning 250,000 euros or more.  The SPD wants the 42 percent rate to climb progressively
for those earning 64,000 euros or more until 100,000 euros, at
which point a rate of 49 percent would kick in. The party also
wants to levy a  wealth tax . The party says 5 percent of earners
would pay more tax.  Under the Green party’s proposals, those making more than
80,000 euros would move to the 49 percent top rate, with a 45
percent rate kicking in from 60,000 euros. Those earning less
would see tax cuts. The party also proposed a tax on private
wealth of more than 1 million euros of 1.5 percent, limited to a
decade. The 10 billion euros it calculated in revenue would be
used to reduce the deficit.  In the campaign, Merkel railed against tax increases as
“poison” for the economy, pointing to record revenue
accumulated on the back of an export-led economy to argue that
there’s no need to generate more. While signals emerged after
the election that her bloc might recant its tax stance, the CDU
and CSU leadership has since appeared united in rejecting any
rise.  Merkel’s outgoing government also promoted a  tax cut 
designed to alleviate “bracket creep,” the process by which
inflation-tied wage increases are eroded by a heavier tax burden
in higher brackets. The SPD-dominated upper house, or Bundesrat,
blocked that plan, which would have cost as much as 3.7 billion
euros, according to the DIW institute.  LABOR:  A central difference between the parties throughout the
campaign has been how to address  Germany ’s low-wage sector by
establishing rules for minimum pay. Germany is among seven
 European Union countries  without a national  minimum wage . The
SPD wants to correct that with a nationwide minimum wage of 8.50
euros an hour. The Greens also support a national minimum wage,
though one set by a commission comprising unions, employers and
economists.  Merkel says it’s not the government’s place to set wages.
Instead, the CDU/CSU favors an industry-by-industry approach
that allows wages to be set by collective bargaining. Still,
Merkel said on more than one occasion during the campaign that
she’d “force” employers and unions to set branch-specific
minimum wages.  Both main parties also want to address the proliferation of
part-time and low-wage contracts. The SPD calls for more
representation for part-time workers on works councils and
supervisory boards. All parties have also vowed to protect
German pensions.  EURO-AREA CRISIS:  The SPD’s losing chancellor candidate  Peer Steinbrueck 
attacked Merkel for her reliance on austerity. He demanded that
a higher premium be placed on economic stimulus. He advocated a
“ Marshall Plan ” for southern  Europe  to funded from the
proceeds of the planned financial-transaction tax. Merkel,
buoyed by SPD and Green backing in parliamentary votes for her
crisis stance, stood by her position that bailout assistance to
indebted nations requires a commitment to reform measures and
adherence to fiscal discipline.  The main parties differ on debt-pooling in the 17-member
currency area. Merkel rejects it, saying that would open the
path to “mediocrity” as more competitive nations are punished
and indebted nations lose their incentive to reform. The SPD,
while backing off its initial embrace of jointly issued euro
bonds, says there’s no way around introducing some form of
pooled debt. The SPD and Greens support a debt-redemption fund,
at least in the medium term.  FINANCE:  The SPD and Greens both advocate stronger regulation of
banks in Europe as well as a faster implementation of an EU-wide
banking union. Merkel’s government has backed centralized
supervision at the  European Central Bank  for systemically
important banks, though has warned about the legal pitfalls of a
bank-resolution mechanism and rejected a centralized deposit-insurance scheme.  Steinbrueck has accused Merkel of “dragging her feet” on
banking union, though the SPD also rejects direct
recapitalization of banks through the bailout fund, preferring
instead that the industry pays for such funding itself.  Senior members of the SPD have signaled they will press for
more rapid implementation of the financial-transaction tax as a
priority.  The SPD and Greens also favor separating banks’ investment
banking segments from commercial banking.  BUDGET:  All parties support reducing the deficit and stable public
finances, embracing Germany’s constitutional debt brake, which
mandates the federal government achieve structural balance by
2016, with the 16 states following from 2020. The position is a
bedrock for the CDU and CSU. Merkel campaigned on her
stewardship of the budget and the government’s projection of
structural balance next year and surplus in 2015. The SPD also
embraces fiscal discipline, but not at the risk of public
investment. So too the Greens, who hold their tax hikes and
wealth tax as the best path toward a balanced budget.  ENERGY:  All parties address the urgency of accelerating Germany’s
shift toward renewable energy as the country plans to shut its
nine remaining nuclear reactors by 2022, a project estimated at
550 billion euros known as the “Energiewende.” One of the most
hot-button issues accompanying the process is rising electricity
prices, particularly those tied to subsides for solar and wind
power.  Merkel has pledged to rein in prices as a priority,
preferring a more market-based approach as the country modifies
its clean-energy subsidy law, the EEG.  The SPD wants to reduce taxes and fees that are added to
power prices, mainly by scaling back the electricity tax. The
party also promotes the creation of an Energy Ministry and a
partly state-owned agency to steer power-grid modernization.  The Greens want a faster expansion of renewable-energy
sources and the promotion of local renewable projects through
private investment and municipal ownership of power generation.
Tax exemptions for energy-intensive industries should be reduced
to save consumers 4 billion euros, the Greens say.  The CDU/CSU says hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, could
be permitted if environmental threats are ruled out, while the
SPD supports a moratorium on the practice until technology is
developed to eliminate dangerous chemicals. The Greens oppose
fracking and want to exit coal-fired power generation by 2030.  HEALTH CARE:  While not at the forefront of policy differences during the
campaign, Merkel’s bloc supports private healthcare plans and
competition among statutory funds, as the current system is set
up.  The SPD supports a “citizen’s insurance” that would
divert Germans from private insurance plans and into a unified
public system covering health-care and nursing care. The Greens
also favor a “citizens’ insurance.”  CHILD CARE:  The SPD spent the campaign lobbing attacks at the
controversial “Betreuungsgeld,” an allowance for parents who
want to raise their children at home. Merkel’s government
enacted the measure with strong support from the Bavarian CSU.  Steinbrueck repeatedly pledged to rescind the allowance as
one of his first acts as chancellor and SPD leaders continue to
take aim at it. They’d use the revenue instead to expand
childcare.  RENT:  All parties during the campaign responded to rising rents,
particularly in urban areas.  Merkel’s government passed legislation to limit rent
increases in tight housing markets to 15 percent to 20 percent
over three years.  Steinbrueck attacked the chancellor for appropriating an
SPD issue. Both main parties propose capping rent increases at
existing residences to 10 percent above the neighborhood
average.  The Greens call for a similar measure, limiting increases
on new leases as well as existing residences to 10 percent of
the average in tight markets, while also curtailing raises based
on apartment renovations.  IMMIGRATION:  A core SPD demand is to recognize dual citizenship,
particularly for residents from immigrant backgrounds who were
born in Germany, a measure that would impact Germany’s Turkish
community.  The CDU/CSU adheres to a compromise law introduced in 2000
that requires native-born dual nationals to choose between
German or foreign citizenship by their 23rd birthday.  WOMEN:  The SPD pledged to require publicly traded companies to
have a 40 percent quota for women on management and supervisory
boards to address gender disparity in German boardrooms. While
Merkel has confronted pressure within the CDU to establish a
quota, the party’s position to demand that industry set up a
voluntary quota to address the problem was accompanied by a
caveat that a binding quota of 30 percent will come into effect
by 2020.  The SPD women’s group has gone further and said it wants
half of all SPD government jobs including cabinet posts to be
reserved for women.  FOREIGN POLICY:  The CDU/CSU, SPD and Greens have all accepted German
involvement in military missions abroad under international
auspices. The SPD views an EU foreign policy as a “power for
peace,” while the Greens support military engagement as a last
resort only if backed by the  United Nations .  One difference is on  Turkey . Merkel’s faction rejects EU
membership for the country, preferring a “privileged
partnership.” The SPD and Greens support membership if Turkey
meets the criteria, especially with respect to civil rights.  VEGGIE DAY:  The Greens proposed a meat-free “veggie day” in schools
and work cafeterias during the campaign. Merkel and CDU/CSU
politicians pounced on the idea as a needless incursion into
Germans’ dining rooms. The chancellor pilloried the proposal at
almost every rally, often to wild cheers. The SPD stayed clear
of the issue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  