-- Etihad Investment in Jet Airways Approved by Indian Cabinet
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-04T10:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/etihad-s-stake-purchase-in-jet-airways-approved-by-india-cabinet.html
Etihad Airways  won Indian government
backing to invest in  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , paving the way
for the first share sale by a carrier in the Asian country to a
foreign airline since restrictions were eased.  The approval will result in foreign investment of 20.6
billion rupees ($332 million), the government said in a
statement after a cabinet decision in New Delhi yesterday.  India 
modified airline ownership rules last year.  Abu Dhabi-based Etihad agreed in April to buy a 24 percent
stake in India’s biggest publicly traded carrier as it seeks
access to a market where passengers are forecast to triple to
452 million by 2020. Rising travel has prompted both  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and AirAsia Bhd. to tie up with Mumbai-based  Tata
Group  this year to set up ventures in the South Asian nation.  “If this goes through it could pave the way for similar
deals involving other Indian carriers,” said Donal O’Neill, an
analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin. A more favorable
regulatory environment could even see network operators such as
British Airways parent International Consolidated Airlines Group
SA “dip its toes in Indian waters,” he said.  Jet Surge  Shares of Jet Airways fell 0.8 percent to 383.70 rupees at
close of trading in Mumbai, after three days of gains. The stock
has declined 31 percent this year, compared with a 2.5 percent
gain for the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex Index.  Etihad, which isn’t traded, will purchase 27.26 million Jet
shares. The Gulf carrier said in April the deal will lift its
commitment to Jet to $600 million, including three pairs of
takeoff and landing slots at  London  Heathrow airport bought for
$70 million in February and the $150 million acquisition of a
majority stake in the Jet Privilege frequent-flier program.  “Jet Airways would be one of the most important
investments for Etihad,” said  John Strickland , director of JLS
Consulting Ltd. in London. “There is a lot of natural traffic
flow from the Indian market.”  Etihad may also look at its stake in Jet as a way to
overcome Indian hurdles on additional traffic rights to the
country, Strickland said. Indian government efforts to protect
domestic carriers by limiting the routes foreign operators can
serve have been an impediment to fast-growing Gulf airlines.  Fleet Funds  The agreement will help Jet raise funds to pay for fleet
expansion and pare  debt  after six years of losses caused by a
price war and high fuel costs. India’s  Foreign Investment
Promotion Board  approved the deal in July.  “Jet Airways needs to lower its cost base to become more
competitive with the growing number of low-cost carriers in the
Indian market,” O’Neill said.  “Etihad could help it to do
this by refocusing its domestic and short haul operations, while
helping to feed Etihad’s network, and getting synergies on any
potential aircraft deal, which Jet needs given its fleet age.”  An Etihad spokesman declined to comment yesterday. Ragini
Chopra, a spokeswoman for Jet, also declined to comment today.  Etihad also has holdings in Air Berlin Plc, Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd., Aer Lingus Group Plc,  Serbia ’s Jat
Airways and Air Seychelles Ltd. The state-owned airline has
invested in smaller operators to help feed long-haul flights and
turn its home base into a hub for intercontinental travel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at   anandk@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  