-- EU Weighs Reining in Proposed Board for Handling Bank Failures
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2013-10-03T10:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/eu-weighs-reining-in-proposed-board-for-handling-bank-failures.html
The European Union may scale back the
powers of a planned central  board  for handling failing euro-area
banks in a bid to assuage concerns that the current blueprint
would rob governments of control over their budgets.  EU financial-services chief Michel Barnier has proposed a
Single Resolution Mechanism for handling euro-area bank
failures, part of the bloc’s three-pronged effort to create a
banking union. Under his plan, the European Commission would
decide when action is needed at a failing bank, while the board
would make preparatory and operational decisions on how
regulators should intervene.  Officials from the 28 EU member states are weighing a range
of options for tackling the potential threat to fiscal
sovereignty, including narrowing the SRM board’s mandate and
transferring key decision-making responsibilities to finance
ministers, according to a document obtained by Bloomberg News.
Another option involves handing states a veto over some of the
board’s decisions, according to the document drafted by
Lithuania, which holds the rotating EU presidency.  “Many member states have raised concerns regarding the
need to ensure budgetary sovereignty in the context of the SRM
proposal,” according to the document, which was discussed by
national diplomats in Brussels yesterday. Lithuania laid out
five options for bolstering “budgetary safeguards.”  Barnier’s Blueprint  The resolution plan is part of a bid by the euro area to
break financial links between sovereigns and banks by
centralizing oversight and crisis management of failing lenders.
Barnier’s blueprint met a German-led attack at a meeting last
month of EU finance ministers.  German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said the
commission’s proposal must be overhauled because it’s on shaky
legal ground and could endanger national control of budgets. EU
lawyers also have warned that Barnier’s text contains
insufficient budget safeguards.  Barnier’s plan requires approval by a weighted majority of
national governments and by the European Parliament before it
can take effect.  One option proposed by Lithuania would be to allow the
board to make decisions on private-creditor losses, while
tapping public backstops, including a common bank-financed fund,
would be made by ministers.  Deposit Guarantees  Another alternative would be to bring forward to 2015 from
2018 the planned start date of related EU rules requiring a
stricken bank’s unsecured senior creditors to face writedowns
before recourse is made to the taxpayers. The entry into force
of these rules, contained in the Bank Recovery and Resolution
Directive, are being negotiated by governments and the EU
parliament.  Nations are also weighing how far the board should be able
to make decisions that might affect national bank deposit-guarantee schemes, according to the document.  “In the event of a systemic crisis, it is highly possible
that DGS funds will quickly be depleted, and this would trigger
the need to replenish the DGS from public finances of affected
member states,” the document states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  