-- LME Rule Changes Seen by Eurofer Benefiting Metals Producers
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2013-10-03T15:28:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/eurofer-says-has-serious-concerns-about-lme-s-warehouse-plans.html
Metals producers are set to benefit
at the expense of consumers as the London Metal Exchange
considers altering rules for withdrawals from warehouse
inventories, the European Steel Association said.  The proposed link between withdrawals and the amount of
metal taken in by warehouses will fail to eliminate choke points
in supply, lengthy waits for deliveries from stockpiles and
increased premiums, Brussels-based Eurofer, as the group is
known, said today in a  statement . That will lead to higher
costs, it said, raising “serious concerns” about the plan.  The new rules will take effect April 1 if they’re approved
this month by the LME’s board. The proposal would oblige LME-monitored warehouses where withdrawals take more than 100 days
to deliver out more metal than they accept. United Co. Rusal,
the biggest aluminum producer, urged the LME last month to delay
the changes, saying they risk further market distortion.  The plan is “a first but insufficient step for solving the
systemic flaws of the LME warehousing system,”  Gordon Moffat ,
Eurofer’s director general, said in the statement. The group
represents companies including Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal,
the world’s biggest steelmaker, and ThyssenKrupp AG, the German
industry leader.  Zinc Coating  LME metals inventories include 1.01 million metric tons of
zinc, daily exchange data showed. Galvanizing, or coating steel
with the metal to protect from corrosion, accounts for half of
demand,  according  to the International Zinc Association.  The LME will refrain from commenting on the proposal until
the board meets, spokeswoman Miriam Heywood said Oct. 1. Eurofer
submitted its views to the exchange on Sept. 30, the final day
for market participants to file comments, according to the
statement.  The so-called load-in, load-out plan is based on arbitrary
reasons and will have only a limited effect on the market in the
“short to medium term,” the association said. It will benefit
producers and “non-physical users” of metals such as zinc,
rather than physical consumers, said Eurofer.  The group urged a reassessment of the proposal based on
market conditions, physical users’ metal requirements and
“specificities” of  warehouse  sites.  Eurofer said in April the LME’s current delivery rules were
creating shortages and raising prices for consumers at a time of
abundant supply. Consumers might wait as long as 400 days to
withdraw warehoused zinc, the group said then.  Warehouses in the Belgian city of Antwerp hold about 73
percent of European zinc stockpiles tracked by the LME,
according to daily exchange data. As much as 60 percent of the
global LME inventory may be locked up in so-called financing
transactions and unavailable to users, Societe Generale SA
estimated in July. Limited supply of zinc fueled gains in
premiums added to LME prices, which are now the highest since
November, according to Metal Bulletin data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  