-- Euro-Area September Services Output Expands More Than Estimated
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-10-03T08:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/euro-area-september-services-output-expands-more-than-estimated.html
Euro-area services output expanded
more than initially estimated in September, as the 17-nation
currency bloc’s economic recovery gained momentum.  An index based on a survey of purchasing managers in the
services industry rose to 52.2, exceeding a Sept. 23 estimate of
52.1 and up from 50.7 in August, London-based Markit Economics
said today. The gauge has been above 50, indicating growth, for
two months.  Today’s services data come after the euro-zone economy
emerged from its longest-ever recession in the second quarter
and economic confidence rose for a fifth month in September. The
jobless rate fell to 12 percent in July from a record 12.1
percent a month earlier, and held at that level in August.  At the same time, economists in a Bloomberg News survey see
growth slowing to 0.2 percent in the third quarter after a  0.3
percent expansion  in the three months through June. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg predict the unemployment rate will peak at
12.3 percent by the end of this year before falling to 12
percent in 2015.  “The region is by no means out of the woods yet,” Chris Williamson, chief economist at Markit, said in today’s report.
“Growth remains only modest. The euro-zone PMI is consistent
with GDP rising by just 0.2 percent on the third quarter, and
the political instability that has reared up in  Italy  is a
reminder that there remains plenty of scope for recoveries to be
derailed.”  Euro-area  factory output  expanded for a third month in
September, though the index slipped to 51.1 from 51.4 in August,
Markit said on Oct. 1. A composite index of activity in the
manufacturing and services industries rose to 52.2, Markit said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  