-- Ex-Bell Manager Pleads No Contest to Corruption Charges
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-10-03T20:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/ex-bell-manager-pleads-no-contest-to-corruption-charges.html
The former city manager of Bell,
 California , pleaded no contest to 69 counts related to the
public-corruption scandal in the blue-collar Los Angeles suburb,
including misappropriation of public funds.  Robert Rizzo , who was paid almost $800,000 a year before he
resigned in 2010, entered the plea less than a week before he
was scheduled to go on trial, according to a statement today
from District Attorney  Jackie Lacey . A no-contest plea has the
same effect as a plea of guilty. Rizzo faces a sentence of at
least 10 years in prison, according to the statement.  “Although we were prepared to go to trial and felt
confident we could convict Mr. Rizzo of all charges, we are
pleased he chose to admit his guilt and accept full
responsibility for the irreparable harm he caused the people of
Bell,” Lacey said in the statement.  Rizzo, 59, and seven other former Bell officials were
arrested three years ago and charged with misappropriation of
more than $5.5 million in public funds. Five former City Council
members were convicted of misappropriation by a jury in May.  James Spertus, Rizzo’s lawyer, said in a telephone
interview that he expects his client to spend no more than five
years in custody. Rizzo is expected to enter a plea in a
separate federal tax case and serve the bulk of the sentence in
federal prison, according to his lawyer.  Lawyer’s Statement  “Mr. Rizzo wants to put these issues behind him and return
to his family as soon as possible,” Spertus said.  Bell, located about 10 miles (16 kilometers) southeast of
 Los Angeles , has five council members who serve part-time and
select the city’s mayor from among themselves. The median
household income of the city’s residents is $37,121 and 93
percent of them are Hispanic, according to U.S. Census data.
Twenty-five percent live below the poverty line.  The case is People v. Rizzo, BA382701, Los Angeles County
Superior Court (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in federal court in the Los Angeles
at   epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 