-- Hannam Shows a Woolly Grasp of Confidentiality, FCA Says
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-03T15:56:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/ex-jpmorgan-dealer-has-woolly-grasp-of-confidentiality-fca-says.html
Ian Hannam, formerly one of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s top merger advisers, is fighting a proposed
market-abuse fine with a “woolly, implicit understanding of
confidentiality,” lawyers for a U.K. regulator told a court.  Hannam is contesting a 450,000 pound ($728,000) civil
market-abuse fine from the Financial Conduct Authority in a
London trial that started in July. Hannam was seeking more
bidders for  Heritage Oil Plc (HOIL) , when he disclosed to an investor
in 2008 that another potential acquirer had made an offer.  If the information Hannam passed on his client Heritage Oil
Plc is “not inside information, what is inside information?”
Richard Boulton, a lawyer for the FCA, said during closing
arguments today. If Hannam wins “it opens the floodgates to the
selective disclosure of inside information.”  Hannam, who resigned from the New York-based bank after the
civil fine, is one of the highest-profile finance workers the
regulator has sought to fine. Hannam was among the bankers
advising Xstrata Plc before it was acquired by  Glencore
International Plc. (GLEN)   The regulator “points to the fact that Mr. Hannam held a
very senior position at his firm and was a role model for
others,” Hannam’s lawyers said in court documents. “That does
not mean that it is appropriate to make an example out of him in
the name of deterrence by imposing a penalty that is not
warranted in the circumstances.”  Hannam’s lawyers also contested the size of the fine,
pointing to the fact it was “higher than many cases of
deliberate disclosure” by other dealers.  Two e-mail messages form the basis of the FCA’s case.
Hannam, has said the notes were in the “best interest” of his
client, Heritage Oil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  