-- Texas Senator Davis Builds Governor’s Race Off Filibuster
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/texas-abortion-rights-backer-davis-enters-governor-s-race.html
Texas  state Senator Wendy Davis,
whose filibuster of new abortion curbs drew national attention
earlier this year, kicked off a bid to become the first Democrat
to win the governor’s office since 1990.  “We’re here because we want to fight for Texas jobs and
companies to grow,” Davis, 50, said yesterday at a rally in the
suburban Fort Worth civic center where she graduated from high
school. “We want every child, no matter where they start in
Texas, to receive a world-class education.”  The lawmaker from Fort Worth grabbed a national spotlight
in June as she spoke almost nonstop for half a day to oppose a
measure backed by Republican Governor  Rick Perry . Davis stood to
block a vote on the proposal to curb abortions.  Democratic leaders in the Lone Star State say Davis has the
potential to return the party to power in Austin. Their last
governor was Ann Richards, who left the office in 1995, beaten
by a future president,  George W. Bush .  A poll released Oct. 2 suggests Davis will have her work
cut out for her if she gains a spot on next year’s gubernatorial
ballot. The survey showed her losing by 8 percentage points to
state Attorney General  Greg Abbott , a Republican who has already
begun his campaign for the office held by Perry since December
2000. Yet the results showed half of voters had no preference.  Unfocused Voters  “Democrats hoping to turn the state blue in the short term
might also take solace in the fact that more than half of the
electorate isn’t yet engaged with the 2014 elections,” said
Daron Shaw, a  University of Texas  professor who conducted the
poll for the Texas Lyceum, a nonpartisan leadership organization
based in  Dallas . Perry, who ran unsuccessfully for his party’s
presidential nomination last year, isn’t seeking re-election.  Davis appealed to supporters to help her end decades of
one-party rule in Austin, where Republicans control the state
legislature as well as all statewide elective offices.  “Texans deserve better than failed leaders who dole out
favors to friends and cronies behind closed doors,” Davis said.
“Texas has waited too long for a governor who knows that quid
pro quo shouldn’t be the status quo.”  Republicans, aided by dissatisfaction with President  Barack Obama , will keep the governor’s office, Steve Munisteri, the
state party chairman, said in an interview. Obama lost in Texas
to  Mitt Romney  by 16 percentage points in 2012.  Defining Opponent  Abbott immediately began trying to define his would-be
opponent next year.  “Texas Democrats are attempting to conjure support for
California-style candidates that try to sell Obama’s liberal
agenda and go against what makes Texas great,” he said
yesterday in a statement. “Nonetheless, we welcome Senator
Davis to the race, and look forward to presenting the clear
differences and debating the important issues that will preserve
the economic miracle in Texas.”  State Democratic leaders urged Davis to run at the top of
their ticket following her filibuster against banning abortions
after 20 weeks, requiring surgical center settings for the
procedure and local-hospital admitting privileges for doctors
involved. The measure she fought passed in a subsequent special
legislative session called by Perry.  Davis, a lawyer in  Fort Worth  when not in the Capitol,
spent the past several months traveling the nation to meet with
supporters as she weighed a statewide campaign in Texas. By some
estimates, she’ll need at least $40 million to compete for the
governor’s office in a state with several major media markets.  Bulging Fund  Abbott has raised $25 million for his campaign, and may
benefit from having won five previous statewide elections.  “The Republicans always outspend us in Texas, but we think
we’ll be competitive because she has such a large national
profile,” said Grace Garcia, executive director of Annie’s
List, a Texas group that raises money for Democratic women.  The group gave Davis’s campaign $50,000 in July and about
$450,000 of the $4 million raised for her 2012 senate re-election.  Abbott, 55, must defeat at least one challenger for the
Republican nomination, Tom Pauken, a former state party chairman
and head of the Texas Workforce Commission. Only Abbott received
more than token support in the Lyceum’s telephone survey of 798
registered voters Sept. 6-20. The poll had a margin of error of
3.5 percentage points.  Davis and supporting groups need to raise $40 million to be
competitive with Abbott, mostly because of advertising costs in
the largest media markets, Garcia said. Because Democrats have
trailed Republicans statewide for more than a decade, Davis will
need out of state donors, Garcia said.  Outside Support  Annie’s List backed Davis last year because she beat a
long-time Republican incumbent for a senate seat in 2008, Garcia
said. The organization is also backing her run for governor.  While the Lyceum poll showed Latino Texans solidly behind
Obama, Abbott said last week that he aims to win more than 40
percent of the Hispanic vote, matching the success of former
Governor Bush in the 1990s. Statewide Republican candidates are
typically supported by about a third of voters from that ethnic
background, according to  Mark Jones , who teaches politics at
 Rice University  in Houston.  In 2010, Perry captured 55 percent of the vote to win over
Democratic challenger  Bill White , a former Houston mayor, by
about 631,000 votes. The Lyceum poll showed 56 percent of voters
approve of Perry’s job performance.  Outside Appeal  Davis’s success will hinge on attracting support for her
stands on women’s health issues and education spending, said
Neil Sroka, a spokesman for Democracy for America, an advocacy
group started by Howard Dean, a former Vermont governor and
Democratic National Committee chairman.  “She needs to be in the center of Texas politics to have a
chance,” said Paul Brace, who also teaches politics at Rice.
“When she plays the women’s health card, it plays well
nationally and it’s a good source of campaign funds. But it
could be problematic statewide.”  Davis focused on education yesterday while omitting
references to women’s health issues.  “Texas deserves a leader who understands that making
education a priority creates good jobs and keeps Texas on top,”
she said. “‘With the right kind of leadership, the great state
of Texas will keep its sacred promise that where you start has
nothing to do with how far you can go.”  Personal Stories  Both Davis and Abbott come to the campaign with compelling
personal stories. Davis was a single mother by age 19 who worked
her way through college and went on to  Harvard Law School  before
entering politics. Abbott was paralyzed below the waist after a
1984 accident and won two terms as a Texas Supreme Court
justice, an elective office, and three as attorney general.  Davis recalled her personal story yesterday as a path
similar to those followed by many Texans who created “better
tomorrows for themselves and their families.”  “Texas is more than a state,” she said. “Texas has
always been a promise. The promise that where you start has
nothing to do with how far you can go.”  “In Austin today, our current leadership thinks promises
are just something you make to the people who write big
checks,” Davis said. “But the promise I’m talking about is
bigger than that. It’s the promise of a better tomorrow for
everyone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  