-- Texas Fund’s First Charter-School Pledges Buoy Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/texas-fund-s-first-charter-school-pledges-buoy-debt-muni-credit.html
Texas  public  charter schools , the
fastest-growing part of the state’s education system, are poised
to see their bonds go to top grade from near junk as a $33
billion fund backed by oil revenue prepares to guarantee the
securities for the first time.  The Texas Permanent School Fund, created in 1876, insures
$59 billion of bonds sold by the state’s districts, helping
issuers lower interest costs for projects from classrooms to
football stadiums. A plan extending the pledge to investment-grade charter schools won Internal Revenue Service approval in
September.  The charter institutions, which have borrowed more than
$800 million since 2000, say the backing may lure more borrowers
and investors. The difference in financing costs was evident in
sales last month. Buyers demanded 10 times more in extra yield
on 10-year debt offered for charter operator IDEA Public
Schools, rated two steps above junk, than on top-rated bonds
from Lubbock’s school district.  “I wouldn’t touch charter schools with a 10-foot pole, but
now with Permanent School Fund backing, it’s a whole different
story,” said David Jaderlund of Jaderlund Investments LLC, a
 Santa Fe ,  New Mexico , firm that manages $500 million in bonds.
“You don’t even have to look at the numbers because it doesn’t
matter if the school is in the poorest section of Texas or
 Highland Park ,” a wealthy Dallas suburb.  Debt Roll  U.S. charter schools, which are privately run with public
funding, are already selling the most municipal debt in at least
six years, led by issuers in  Arizona  and Texas.  Nationwide, the schools have sold about $890 million this
year, the most since at least 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. About 80 percent of the debt has a  credit rating . The
trend defies an issuance slowdown this year, as borrowing has
dropped 13 percent across the $3.7 trillion municipal market.  While the institutions enroll about 4 percent of the
nation’s public schoolchildren, they are gaining popularity as
parents seek alternatives without paying private-school tuition.
In Texas, charter schools educate about 200,000 students, out of
about 5 million in the public system. Republican Governor  Rick
Perry  told the state Board of Education in February that the
number of the institutions permitted in Texas should be
increased.  Oil Receipts  The nation’s biggest oil producer, Texas is among a handful
of states that insure school bonds approved by the education
commissioner in case of a default. The fund’s assets have risen
76 percent since 2003, after payments to schools, because of
investment gains and royalties on oil and gas receipts from
drilling on state-owned land.  Real estate and mineral rights, including oil and natural
gas, make up about 14 percent of the fund’s assets, with the
balance invested in areas such as stocks and bonds.  Without the fund’s backing, Weslaco, Texas-based charter
operator IDEA, rated BBB by  Standard & Poor’s , borrowed $63
million last month through the Clifton Higher Education Finance
Corp. The sale included 10-year bonds priced to yield 4.5
percent, or about 1.5 percentage points more than benchmark
debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The same week, Lubbock Independent School District borrowed
$31.9 million through tax-exempt debt, including a 10-year
portion for which the yield spread was about 0.13 percentage
point. The bonds are insured by the fund, giving them a AAA
rating.  Expansion Plan  With IDEA planning to double enrollment within five years
to 30,000, “the PSF couldn’t come at a better time for us,”
said Chief Executive Officer Tom Torkelson.  “We’ll be sending less money to bond buyers and investing
more money in our schools” if IDEA receives the state’s support
when it next borrows, he said.  Cosmos Foundation Inc., a Houston charter firm that
operates as Harmony Public Schools and has sold $250 million in
bonds since 2007, expects to cut its interest payout by a full
percentage point with support from the fund, said Soner Tarim,
Harmony’s chief executive officer. The company is the largest
charter firm in Texas, with 26,000 students in 40 sites. It
expects to enroll as many as 40,000 within five years.  The default rate of charter schools underscores the risk to
investors without the fund’s backing.  About 2.8 percent of the $7.7 billion issued by U.S.
charter schools since 1998 has defaulted, said Wendy Berry, a
consultant for the Local Initiatives Support Corp., a nonprofit
 New York  community development organization. Five schools failed
in the year ending June 30.  Default Contrast  That compares with a total default rate of local general
obligations of 0.01 percent from 1970 to 2012, according to a
Moody’s study.  “There are going to be a few screwups if knuckleheads are
running some schools,” said Richard Rickey, chief executive
officer of Orenda Education, a Georgetown, Texas, charter
operator that is in the market to sell about $10.5 million in
bonds. The school expects to pay an interest rate of about 7.65
percent, then in a few years seek state backing to refinance at
about 5 percent, Rickey said.  “We’re throwing away millions of dollars on interest costs
that we can put in the classroom,” he said. Money from the
current issue would expand its Georgetown building, replacing
modular classrooms used by its 1,000 students.  Yield Yearning  As much as $900 million in guarantees will be available to
Texas charter schools, according to their share of total public
school enrollment, said Tom Sage, a Houston attorney who
specializes in school finance at Andrews Kurth LLP.  “Some investors will miss the extra yield,” said Brian
Colon, a Denver-based managing director of Robert W. Baird &
Co., which underwrites school bonds. “But this is a unique and
positive development for charter schools.”  Interest rates  in the municipal market were little changed
as the partial shutdown of the nation’s government extended to a
second day.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield about  2.72 percent , compared
with  2.62 percent  for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields, a measure of relative value, is
about 104 percent, compared with an average of 93 percent since
2001. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are compared with
federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  Florida ’s Broward County plans to offer about $434 million
in  airport-system revenue bonds  next week to finance work at
Fort Lauderdale-Hollywood International Airport, including the
expansion of terminals and a runway. The bonds are backed by
liens on airport revenue such as from carrier fees, car rentals
and parking. The issue will add to the county’s existing airport
debt of about $1.1 billion, sale documents show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  