-- Mexico Police Clash With Protesters Opposing Pena Nieto Plan
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-03T14:38:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/mexico-police-clash-with-protesters-opposing-pena-nieto-plan-1-.html
Mexico City police blocked the
entrance to the stock exchange yesterday as thousands rallied on
the main business boulevard and clashed with officers to protest
President Enrique Pena Nieto’s economic agenda.  Police said about 30,000 students, teachers and supporters
closed off the Paseo de la Reforma boulevard, with hundreds
outside the  Bolsa Mexicana (BOLSAA)  and U.S. Embassy. Officers clad in
riot gear used fire extinguishers and tear gas to defend
themselves against protesters attacking with sticks, rocks and
Molotov cocktails in the capital’s historic center. Thirty two
officers were injured and 102 protesters detained, Mexico City
police said in a statement.  Teachers clashed with police in the capital’s main square
on Sept. 13 and have been blocking access to government
buildings and the airport off and on since August to protest
Pena Nieto’s education overhaul passed last month, which
requires evaluations for hiring and promotion. The crowds grew
yesterday as students joined the marches to commemorate the
anniversary of the Tlatelolco massacre, when government troops
shot and killed student protesters on Oct. 2, 1968.  Ricardo Zarate, 16, a Mexico City public school student,
said he was marching “to commemorate October 2 and against the
structural reforms,” government proposals ranging from
increasing tax collection to opening state-owned oil producer
 Petroleos Mexicanos  to more private investment.  “The reforms will hurt everyone and only benefit a few,”
Zarate said. “This is like it was in 1968. The students rose up
against the government. Now we’re doing the same.”  ‘Maximum Impact’  Four helicopters and 5,000 officers were deployed in the
capital to ensure security amid looting and vandalism, according
to city police. Dozens of youths clad in black and wearing face
masks destroyed a bus station on Reforma with sticks and stones
and broke storefront windows.  The city’s businesses have lost 1.3 billion pesos ($100
million) since teachers began protesting in August, Ricardo
Navarro, president of Mexico City’s Chamber of Commerce,
Services and Tourism, said in an interview today on Milenio TV.  Fortino Martinez, a 56-year-old secondary school teacher
from Oaxaca and member of the CNTE, the smaller of the country’s
two main teacher unions, said the union protested at the stock
exchange and U.S. Embassy yesterday to increase awareness of its
message that the new education laws must be rescinded. Stock
exchange trading wasn’t disrupted as transactions are carried
out electronically, the Bolsa’s press office said yesterday.  “We look for places of maximum impact,” Martinez said.
“If we don’t come here to demonstrate, no one will hear us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
Eric Martin in  New York  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  