-- ExxonMobil Sues FX Networks Over Interlocking XX Logo
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-10-03T03:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/exxonmobil-sues-fx-networks-over-interlocking-xx-logo.html
ExxonMobil Corp. sued FX Networks LLC
and its studio affiliates to block their use of a logo the oil
company says infringes on its interlocking XX logo.  “ExxonMobil has invested many millions of dollars for more
than four decades in advertising and promoting” the logo, David
Beck, ExxonMobil’s attorney, said in the filing today in federal
court in Houston.  FX Networks and its studio affiliates, Twentieth Century
Fox Film Corp. and  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) , started the
FXX TV network last month with a logo featuring an interlocking
XX design, according to the complaint.  The network refused to drop the interlocking Xs when the
oil company requested the change, according to the complaint.  ExxonMobil’s filing includes several citations to Internet
postings in which viewers question whether there is a
relationship between FXX and the world’s largest publicly traded
oil company because of the similarities between the logos.  ExxonMobil, based in Irving,  Texas , is seeking a court
order barring the network from using the design “and any other
mark confusingly similar,” along with treble damages.  “This lawsuit is entirely meritless,” Julie Henderson, a
spokeswoman for Los Angeles-based FX Networks, said in an
e-mail.  “It is unfathomable” that a consumer would confuse
Exxon’s logo with that of FXX, she said. “We are confident that
viewers won’t tune into FXX looking for gas or motor oil and
drivers won’t pull up to an Exxon pump station expecting to get
‘It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia.’”  The case is  ExxonMobil Corp. (XOM)  v. FX Networks LLC, 4:13-cv-02906, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   lcalkins@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 