-- Fab.com Cuts 101 Jobs as E-Commerce Site Aims to Turn Profit
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-03T17:53:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fab-com-cuts-101-jobs-as-e-commerce-site-aims-to-turn-profit-1-.html
Fab.com Inc. , the e-commerce startup
valued at about $1 billion in a June fundraising round, plans to
cut 101 people, or about 19 percent of its staff, as it seeks to
turn a profit.  “Fab is focused on being profitable and self-sustainable
as soon as possible,” Chief Executive Officer  Jason Goldberg 
said today in a blog post. “That scenario is well within our
reach with our existing financing if we follow an extremely
thoughtful and disciplined path to profitability.”  The reduction, which includes 84 people in Fab’s New York
headquarters, will leave the company with 440 full-time
employees. The cuts will save New York-based Fab.com a
“significant amount,” getting it closer to a goal to start
turning a profit without seeking more financing, the company
said in an e-mail.  The two-year-old startup, which rose to prominence selling
quirky home goods, such as vintage typewriters and tables shaped
like U.S. states, raised $150 million in June from investors
such as  China ’s  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  The deal valued the
retailer at about $1 billion. Additional funding rounds in July
and August brought the total amount raised to at least $325
million.  As it has grown, Fab has struggled with selling its highly
curated merchandise on a global scale. Earlier this year, the
company shifted from a site specializing in flash sales --
selling limited amounts of merchandise in bursts -- to an
inventory-based system. In July, the company eliminated 100 jobs
in Berlin and moved 30 workers from the German office to  New
York . It said in August that no additional job cuts were in the
works.  “During the last few weeks, and a ton of thoughtful
analysis, meetings, discussions with executive management and
the board, we made this decision to structure our company in a
way that accelerated our path to profitability,” the company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  