-- Facebook’s Instagram to Add Advertising Amid Revenue Push
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/facebook-s-instagram-to-add-advertising-amid-revenue-push.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the
world’s most popular social network, will sell advertising on
its Instagram photo service, the first effort to make money from
the company’s largest acquisition on record.  Promotions will start to appear on the mobile application,
which lets users share images from smartphones, in the next
couple of months in the U.S., Facebook said in a  blog post 
yesterday. Instagram will deliver a “small number” of pictures
and videos from a handful of companies that users aren’t
necessarily following.  Facebook is seeking new ways to drive revenue from mobile
devices as users increasingly access digital services from
wireless devices. While mobile made up 41 percent of ad revenue
in the second quarter, up from 30 percent in the previous
period, Facebook remains a  distant No. 2  in a market led by
 Google Inc. (GOOG) , according to researcher EMarketer Inc.  “Our aim is to make any advertisements you see feel as
natural to Instagram as the photos and videos many of you
already enjoy from your favorite brands,” Instagram said on the
blog. “After all, our team doesn’t just build Instagram, we use
it each and every day. We want these ads to be enjoyable and
creative in much the same way you see engaging, high-quality ads
when you flip through your favorite magazine.”  Users will be able to hide promotions they don’t like, the
app developer said. They can also give feedback about what
doesn’t “feel right” about the ads. Instagram, which Facebook
bought for more than $700 million last year, has more than  150
million users , up from more than 130 million in June.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , has continued to
update the service. Instagram unveiled tools in July that let
members embed photos and videos on outside websites, including
blogs and news providers. Videos were added to the photo-sharing
app in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  