-- Falkand Oil's Bid for Desire to Speed Up Exploration
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2013-10-03T11:57:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/falkand-oil-s-bid-for-desire-to-speed-up-exploration.html
Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL) ’s 61 million-pound ($99 million) bid for  Desire (DES)  Petroleum Plc will accelerate
exploration off the Atlantic archipelago, said Falkland Oil
Chief Executive Officer Tim Bushell.  The company will offer 0.6233 shares for each Desire share,
valuing it at 17.76 pence with a premium of about 45 percent to
yesterday’s closing price, Falkland Oil said today in a
statement. It also signed partnerships with  Premier Oil Plc (PMO)  and
 Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH)  to share costs for two exploration
wells in Desire licenses to the north of the Falkland Islands.  The acquisition gives Falkland Oil access to the north,
where Rockhopper has made the only commercial discovery so far,
in the Sea Lion field. It will leave Falkland Oil with $170
million in cash, enough to fund Bushell’s five-well exploration
plans starting in the fourth quarter of next year, he said.  Desire shares soared 31 percent to 16 pence in London
trading at 12.34 p.m., the most intraday since June 2011.
Trading volume was 27 times the three-month average. Falkland
Oil fell 5.3 percent to 27 pence. Rockhopper rose 4.1 percent to
133.25 pence while Premier was little changed at 331 pence.  For Premier and Rockhopper shareholders “this is quite
good news, it’s all coming forward,” Bushell said by phone.  Shared Rig  Falkland Islands drilling operators, such as Premier and
 Noble Energy Inc. (NBL) , plan to use one rig to share mobilization
costs. Premier and Rockhopper are working on the archipelago’s
largest projects, the Sea Lion development, planning to invest
about $5 billion to pump first oil in 2018.  “It all depends on rig availability,” Premier CEO Simon Lockett said by phone. “And it all depends on which is the most
economical way of doing it.” He forecast most exploration
drilling will be completed in the “2014-2015 winter.”  “We like some of the stuff further south” of Sea Lion,
Lockett said. “It’s cherry picking, it’s getting exactly what
you want out of the deal” with Falkland Oil.  The premium Falkland Oil has agreed to pay for Desire
reflects how undervalued it was by the market, Bushell said.
Desire has a share of the Sea Lion field and adjustment area
with resources of about 85 million barrels of oil, Bushell said.
The area will have to be unitized between existing license
holders ahead of the development.  “Desire has found barrels and has resources there,” he
said. “We are actually getting them quite cheaply by doing this
deal.”  Both companies’ shareholders will have to approve the
transaction, which would see Falkland Oil holders owning 60
percent of the combined company. Bushell would be CEO.  Drilling Plans  Noble Energy and Edison SpA will fund two wells to  the
south and east  of the Falklands at a cost of about $100 million
a well. Premier and Rockhopper will fund two more wells
targeting the Isobel/Elaine and the Jayne East prospect to  the
north  of the archipelago at a cost of about $50 million a well,
Bushell said.  In addition, Falkland Oil will contribute about $20 million
to a fifth well targeting Zebedee, also in partnership with
Premier and Rockhopper, the CEO said. Three wells will be
drilled to the south of the Sea Lion field.  The difference in the well cost is “mainly because of the
water depth,” Bushell said. The “south has much deeper water
so the wells are more expensive.”  Premier and Rockhopper also plan to drill the  Chatham well 
at the Sea Lion field, Lockett said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  