-- FAO Schwarz Considers Leaving Iconic Fifth Avenue Store
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2013-10-04T18:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fao-schwarz-considers-leaving-iconic-fifth-avenue-store.html
(Corrects to delete reference to broker’s role in 1986
deal in fourth paragraph of story published on Oct. 3.)  FAO Schwarz may vacate its iconic
flagship toy store on  Manhattan ’s Fifth Avenue after almost
three decades at the location, according to real estate brokers.  Toys “R” Us Inc., FAO Schwarz’s Wayne, New Jersey-based
parent company, hired CBRE Group Inc. to market about 60,000
square feet (5,600 square meters) at the base of the General
Motors Building for sublease, brokers from two competing firms
said today. The store, a tourist magnet on one of the world’s
priciest retail corridors, has been home to the retailer since
it moved from across the street in 1986.  FAO Schwarz no longer needs such a large location, said
Faith Hope Consolo, chairman of the retail group at Douglas
Elliman Real Estate in Manhattan. By subleasing the space, the
company also may be looking to take advantage of the area’s
surging retail rents, which have risen almost 22 percent from a
year ago, according to  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc.  “Yes, it’s beautiful, it’s a landmark,” Consolo said.
“But Toys ‘R’ Us already has that big presence in Times Square,
and they can have a smaller venue. Now that the building has
been through three ownerships and changed the dynamic, it’s time
for them to move on. They don’t need to be there.”  Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , the biggest U.S. office real estate
investment trust, has been majority owner of the GM Building
since 2008. M. Safra & Co. and the family of Chinese real estate
developer Zhang Xin earlier this year bought a 40 percent stake
in the 50-story white stone tower, which sits at the southeast
corner of  Central Park .  Apple Store  FAO Schwarz is on the same plaza as Apple Inc.’s “cube”
store, which draws tourists from all over the world to shop and
view its 32-foot (10-meter) glass entryway. In the past year,
 CBS Corp. (CBS)  shuttered a TV studio opposite FAO Schwarz. That space
has been in part leased to the jeweler Cartier Inc.  Rents in the Fifth Avenue retail area averaged $2,513 a
square foot in the third quarter, up from $2,067 a year earlier,
according to a report today from Cushman & Wakefield. The FAO
space was “recently put on the market for sublease,” Alan
Schmerzler, an  executive director  at the brokerage, said at a
news briefing.  Lease Options  The company’s lease expires in 2017, said  Kathleen Waugh , a
Toys “R” Us spokeswoman.  “Over the next four years, we will evaluate our lease
renewal options,” she said in an e-mail. “Part of evaluating
our lease renewal options could include looking for potential
tenants to sublease the space.”  Arista Joyner, a Boston Properties spokeswoman, didn’t
return a telephone call. Phil Russo, a CBRE spokesman, declined
to comment.  FAO Schwarz has had a New York presence for about 150
years. In 2011, it exercised an option to stay at the GM
Building beyond the 2012 expiration of its lease.  The store is home of the giant piano that actor  Tom Hanks 
danced on in the movie “Big.” It also features a candy shop
known as FAO Schweetz and the Muppet Whatnot Workshop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  