-- Farney Daniels, Time Warner: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/farney-daniels-time-warner-intellectual-property.html
A cease-and-desist letter by
 Nebraska ’s attorney general to a law firm representing a patent
owner isn’t enforceable, a federal judge in Omaha ruled.  In a July 18 letter to Georgetown, Texas-based  Farney
Daniels LLP , the state’s Attorney General Jon Bruning said the
firm is making infringement assertions that “are
unsubstantiated and contain false, misleading or deceptive
statements.”  Its actions may violate the Nebraska Consumer Protection
Act, Bruning said, demanding that Farney Daniels “immediately
cease and desist the initiation of any and all new patent
infringement enforcement efforts within the state.”  Bruning accused Farney Daniels’s client, Activision TV
Inc., of being a “patent troll,” a pejorative term for a
patent owner who doesn’t make goods or provide services covered
by the patents it seeks to enforce.  Farney Daniels said in response that while Bruning “may
have concerns about the U.S. patent system and how it works or
particular types of patent owners,” the firm had lawfully
represented its clients in upholding their rights, according to
court papers.  Bruning’s actions “should be of concern to every firm in
the country that works to protect and enforce the lawful rights
of U.S. patent owners,” Farney Daniels said.  The firm then asked the court to determine whether it could
represent Activision without running afoul of the cease-and-desist order and if the court had the jurisdiction to determine
the constitutionality of the cease-and-desist order.  The underlying suit was filed July 12. Naples, Florida-based Activision had claimed that Pinnacle Bancorp Inc., of
Central City, Nebraska, infringed two patents relating to a
remote control display system.  In dispute are patents 8,330,613, and 7,369,058. 
Activision filed suits in other judicial districts claiming 
additional defendants also infringed the two patents.  In his Sept. 30 ruling, U.S. District Judge Joseph F.
Bataillon said that Activision’s right to hire counsel of its
own choosing “is clearly impeded by the cease-and-desist
order.” He also said that allowing the attorney general to
interfere in the case might be “harmful to the patent
process.”  Bruning would be free to return to court to seek a lifting
of the court order if the evidence supports a finding that the
suit was filed in bad faith, the judge said.  Bruning said in an Oct. 1  statement  that nothing in the
court order stops “our ongoing investigation into patent trolls
and law firms that represent them, specifically Farney
Daniels.”  Among the companies Activision sued over the two patents
are  Pernod Ricard SA (RI) ’s Dunkin Donuts unit,  Cinemark Holdings
Inc. (CNK) ,  MGM Resorts International Inc. (MGM) ,  Cianbro Corp., Tedeschi
Food Shops Inc., and  Harley Davidson Inc. (HOG) , according to
Bloomberg data.  The case is Activision TV Inc., v. Pinnacle Bancorp Inc.,
8:13-cv-00215-JFB-TDT, U.S. District Court, District of Nebraska
(Omaha).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Warner Brothers Applies to Register New Quidditch Trademarks  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Brothers unit, which already
registered a number of trademarks relating to the sport of
Quidditch popularized in the Harry Potter books and films, has
filed a spate of new Quidditch-related applications.  The studio filed five applications Sept. 11 to register
“Quidditch Through the Ages.”  According to the database of the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office, the studio will use the marks with books, films,
television programs, computer games, clothing and toys.  The studio presently possesses registered U.S. trademarks
for “Quidditch” for use with a range of products including bed
linens, jewelry, notebooks, decorative magnets and toys.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Magnum Photos to Set Up Paid On-Line Membership Program  Magnum Photos Ltd., the U.K. photo archive that last year
did away with placing virtual watermarks on its images, is
setting up a paid membership program that will allow its more
than 800,000 members to download and use the images for non-commercial purposes, the British Journal of Photography
 reported.   Clement Saccomani, Magnum’s Paris-based editorial director,
told the publication that trying to prevent people from
downloading won’t stop them, but with the membership -- costing
$20 to $40 per year -- the company hopes to transfer those who
have been downloading images illegally into “a new community.”  Members will also receive discounts on books, and will be
able to participate in portfolio reviews, the British Journal of
Photography reported.  Massimo Moggi, who heads Magnum’s licensing and technology
efforts in  New York , told the journal that his company looked to
the sports industry for inspiration for its membership scheme,
which the company hopes to leverage the way pro soccer teams
clubs work with their members.  South Africa’s Proposed IP Policy Said to Be ‘Incoherent’  The South African government’s draft policy on  intellectual
property  issues was called “an incoherent stream of
consciousness” by the intellectual property law department of
Stellenbosch University,  South Africa ’s Business Day  reported .  The policy statement was released for public comment by
South Africa’s  Department of Trade and Industry  Sept. 4,
according to Business Day.  Professor Owen Dean , who heads the university’s IP law
department, told Business Day his unit found the policy displays
an “alarming lack of understanding or knowledge” of existing
intellectual property law.  Sidwell Medipe of the  Department of Trade and Industry  said
public comments would be analyzed by his agency and any
necessary changes in the policy would be made, according to
Business Day.  Boston Court Enters Default Judgment Against Adult-Film Company  In an adult-film copyright case, a federal judge in  Boston 
allowed a default judgment against the film company.  AF Holdings LLC sued Sandipan Chowdhury in November 2012,
accusing him of using the BitTorrent file-sharing protocol to
download the film “Sexual Obsession.”  Chowdhury responded by saying the law firm that filed the
suit represented a “straw plaintiff” with no standing to
pursue the case. Additionally, Chowdhury said that the IP
address of the entity that distributed “Sexual Obsession”
indicated that the law firm representing the film maker may
actually have put the film out on the Internet for others to
download.  He said in his pleadings that the firm “represents an
entire in-house copyright trolling monopoly, not designed to
promote works for distribution and sale, but to allege
infringement and reap profits from the threat of litigation.”  Chowdhury asked the court to order the film company to post
a $60,000 bond so that he could recover damages, attorney fees
and litigation costs if he prevailed in the litigation.  On June 19 the court ordered the company to post the bond,
which it failed to do. Chowdhury then requested that the court
enter a default judgment, which was allowed by U.S. District
Judge Joseph L. Tauro on Sept. 30.  The case is AF Holdings LLC v. Sandipan Chowdhury, 1:13-cv-12105-JLT, U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts .  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Kyoto Hostess Club Investigated as Potential Espionage Site  A hostess club in Kyoto’s  Gion  district is under
investigation in an industrial espionage case,  according  to the
Tokyo Reporter news website.  The club was patronized by executives and engineers from
more than five technology companies, who discussed their
company’s marketing strategy for China and technology advances,
the website reported.  The club’s female manager is a Chinese national, who
reportedly had familial connections to high-level members of the
Chinese Communist Party, according to Tokyo Reporter.  The club manager has denied being a spy, saying that
customers never talked about their work when they were at the
club, the news website reported.  IP Moves  Norton Rose Fullbright Grabs David Ben-Meir for IP Group  Norton Rose Fullbright LLP hired David Ben-Meir for its IP
practice, the London-based firm said in a statement.  Ben-Meir , who joins from Atlanta’s Alston & Bird LLP, is a
patent litigator. He has represented clients in the consumer
electronics, communications and software industries. Before he
was a lawyer, he was a research and development engineer for
Litton Industries.  He has an undergraduate degree from  Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute , a master’s degree from  California  State University
Northridge, and a law degree from Loyola Law School of  Los
Angeles .  Baker Botts  Hires Weil Gotschal & Manges’ Nicholas Barzoukas  Baker Botts LLP hired Nicholas Barzoukas for its IP
practice group, the Houston-based firm said in a statement.  Barzoukas  has represented patent-holders in the
pharmaceutical industry in Hatch-Waxman litigation related to
the entry of generic drugs. His clients’ technologies have also
included medical devices, biotechnology, electronics, chemistry,
lasers and mechanical systems.  He joins Baker Botts from New York’s Weil Gotshal & Manges
LLP, where he has practiced since 2006. Before that, he was with
the now-defunct Washington firm Howrey LLP.  Barzoukas has an undergraduate degree and a master’s degree
in business administration from Baylor University and a law
degree from the  University of Texas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 