-- Fed’s Fisher Says Economic Uncertainty Hinders Expansion
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2013-10-03T23:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fed-s-fisher-says-economic-uncertainty-hinders-expansion.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
President Richard Fisher, who has opposed additional stimulus,
said years of high “economic policy uncertainty” in the U.S.
have been a “significant hindrance” to economic growth.  The Fed’s surprising investors by delaying the first taper
of bond buying amid an improved  labor market  “may have
increased uncertainty about the future path of monetary
policy,” Fisher, who does not vote on monetary policy this
year, said today in a  speech  in Dallas.  “That was one argument raised against the decision not to
taper,” Fisher said of the Fed’s policy meeting last month. “I
know, because I made the argument, and I was not alone.”  Policy makers are debating how to curb record stimulus amid
a deadlock over the federal government’s budget and a lack of
agreement on raising the debt ceiling to avoid default. The
 Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  at its next gathering on Oct. 29-30 will weigh the impact from the government’s partial shutdown
as they debate tapering the $85 billion pace of monthly bond
buying to boost the labor market.  The Fed has supported the expansion while Congress is
undermining growth by failing to provide a sound fiscal policy,
Fisher said in speech in Little Rock,  Arkansas .  “We actually make decisions and we get things done,”
Fisher said about the central bank. “We have a Three Stooges
act taking place on Capitol Hill.”  The first government shutdown since 1996 began a third day
today as face-to-face talks between Obama and congressional
leaders failed to break the budget logjam.  ‘Feckless Congress’  “We have a feckless Congress incapable of acting or
cooperating with the president,” Fisher said in Little Rock.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index today fell 0.9 percent to
1,678.66 in New York, while the yield on the 10-year Treasury
note declined 0.01 percentage point to 2.61 percent.  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S. has begun
final extraordinary measures to avoid breaching its debt limit
that will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.  The U.S. government defaulting on its debt later this month
would be an “unthinkable” event that also would undermine
economic growth and cause faith in U.S. debt to “be a mirage
rather than accepted fact,” Fisher said in Dallas.  Business leaders “have regularly complained of the fog of
uncertainty emanating from  Washington ” since the recovery began
in 2009, Fisher said.  ‘Major Impediments’  “They have consistently cited fiscal and regulatory
uncertainty as major impediments to capital investment and
expanding payrolls,” Fisher said, citing President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care Act, which debuted Oct. 1. “They’ve
complained of not knowing what their all-in labor and other
costs will be and of how that lack of knowledge has made long-term employment planning nearly impossible.”  The Fed has pledged for more than a year to press on with
asset purchases until achieving sustainable gains in the labor
market. The central bank announced a third round of quantitative
easing in September 2012 to reduce longer-term interest rates,
stoke economic growth and combat  unemployment .  A week-long partial shutdown would probably shave 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey this week. The world’s largest
economy expanded at a 2.5 percent rate in the second quarter.  Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren , a consistent backer of
record stimulus who votes on policy this year, said yesterday
the Fed refrained from tapering its bond purchases at the last
meeting on Sept. 17-18 because growth was lower than forecast
and fiscal policy posed a risk to the outlook.  ‘So Problematic’  “Had U.S. fiscal matters not been so problematic, and
incoming data on real GDP and employment stronger, it may well
have been appropriate to take some action in September,”
Rosengren said in a speech in Burlington,  Vermont , referring to
gross domestic product. “Unfortunately, those were not the
facts we faced” at the policy meeting last month.  Fisher, 64, has been Dallas Fed chief since 2005. Fisher
previously was an assistant to Treasury Secretary W. Michael
Blumenthal in the Carter administration and deputy U.S. trade
representative in the Clinton administration with the rank of
ambassador from 1997 to 2001. His district includes  Texas ,
northern Louisiana and southern New Mexico.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  