-- Fed’s Williams Says Dangerous Not to Raise Debt Ceiling
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-03T18:48:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fed-s-williams-says-dangerous-not-to-raise-debt-ceiling.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President  John Williams  said any failure by the U.S. to raise
the debt ceiling would be “very dangerous,” while estimating a
two-week government shutdown would shave 0.25 percentage point
off fourth-quarter economic growth.  A  U.S. debt  default would undermine confidence in the
economy and dollar, Williams said today to reporters after a
speech in  San Diego . “We’re hoping cooler heads will prevail.”  Congress and the White House, while deadlocked over the
budget in the third day of a partial government shutdown, must
also agree on raising the country’s $16.7 trillion debt ceiling.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the U.S. has begun final
extraordinary measures intended to avoid breaching the limit,
which will be exhausted no later than Oct. 17.  A U.S. debt default would be an “unthinkable” event that
also would undermine economic growth and cause faith in U.S.
debt to “be a mirage rather than accepted fact,”  Dallas  Fed
President  Richard Fisher  said today in a speech in Dallas.  A week-long government shutdown would probably shave 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to 40
economists in a Bloomberg survey this week. The world’s largest
economy expanded at a 2.5 percent rate in the second quarter.  “The immediate effects on the  U.S. economy  are modest,”
Williams said to reporters, referring to the government closing.
“What makes me nervous are not the direct effects of the
government shutdown, but what does that mean for the debt
ceiling.”  Stocks Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.7 percent to
1,682.27 at 2:03 p.m. in  New York , while the yield on the 10-year Treasury note declined 0.01 percentage point to 2.61
percent.  The government suspension prompted the U.S. Department of
Labor to announce it won’t issue the September payrolls report
tomorrow as initially scheduled. The release includes the
 unemployment rate  and data on payroll employment.  “Obviously not having that data makes it harder for us to
see what’s going on,” Williams said to reporters. “I wouldn’t
exaggerate the impact on monetary policy of not having a couple
of data inputs.”  “If the government shutdown ends sooner rather than later,
we can have access to that data fairly quickly,” he said. The
costs from lack of data would become “far more acute” if the
closing persists for months.  Fiscal ‘Headwinds’  The Fed has provided record stimulus in part to push
against “headwinds” from fiscal policy, Williams said in
response to an audience question, echoing comments yesterday
from Boston Fed President  Eric Rosengren .  The Fed refrained from tapering $85 billion in monthly bond
purchases at its Sept. 17-18 meeting because growth fell short
of its forecast and fiscal policy posed a risk to the outlook,
Rosengren said yesterday.  The central bank, combating unemployment that was 7.3
percent in August, is relying on the unorthodox tools of bond
purchases and communicating its intended policy path. It cut the
benchmark  interest rate  close to zero in December 2008.  The economy will probably need sustained unconventional
stimulus for the “next few years,” Williams, who doesn’t vote
on policy this year, said today in his speech.  “U.S. unemployment is still too high and inflation is too
low,” said Williams, who has consistently backed record
accommodation. “The appropriate stance of  monetary policy  is
very accommodative and that will continue to be the case for
quite some time,” Williams said.  “As the U.S. economy continues to improve, it will be
appropriate for the Fed to start trimming its asset purchases
and eventually stop them altogether,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James L Tyson at 
 jtyson@bloomberg.net  