-- Fed’s Williams Sees Unconventional Stimulus for Next Few Years
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2013-10-03T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fed-s-williams-sees-unconventional-stimulus-for-next-few-years.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco
President John Williams, who has backed record easing, said the
U.S. economy will probably need sustained unconventional
stimulus for the “next few years.”  “U.S. unemployment is still too high and inflation is too
low,” Williams said in the text of remarks prepared for a
speech today in San Diego,  California . He doesn’t vote on policy
this year. “The appropriate stance of  monetary policy  is very
accommodative and that will continue to be the case for quite
some time,” Williams said.  The Federal Open Market Committee last month unexpectedly
refrained from tapering $85 billion in monthly bond purchases,
saying it wants to see more signs of sustained strength in the
economy. The Fed, combating unemployment that was 7.3 percent in
August, is relying on the unorthodox tools of bond purchases and
communicating its intended policy path. The central bank cut the
benchmark interest rate close to zero in December 2008.  “As the U.S. economy continues to improve, it will be
appropriate for the Fed to start trimming its asset purchases
and eventually stop them altogether,” Williams said.  The FOMC said the bond program isn’t on a preset course in
a statement after a Sept. 17-18 meeting in  Washington . Fiscal
policy is among the factors restraining growth, the committee
said. Since then Congress has deadlocked over the  federal
budget , prompting the first partial U.S. government shutdown in
17 years.  Government Shutdown  Williams didn’t comment on the closing in his prepared
remarks, focusing largely on the future of monetary policy.  Once the Fed’s main interest rate is no longer at near-zero, the Fed should assign asset purchases to a “backup
role,” he said.  “The recent outsize movements in bond rates in response to
Fed communications about our current asset purchase program
illustrate the difficulty in gauging the effects of asset
purchases,” Williams said. “Moreover, given our limited
experience, we can’t be sure of all their consequences, which
may play out over many years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  