-- Fed Hampered by Data Shortage as Officials Weigh Qe Taper
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2013-10-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fed-hampered-by-data-shortage-as-officials-weigh-qe-taper.html
A dearth of economic data caused by
the U.S. government shutdown is making it harder for Federal
Reserve policy makers to assess the health of the economy as
they consider when to start paring unprecedented monetary
stimulus.  The shortage “would tend to make me somewhat more
cautious” about reducing the monthly pace of bond purchases,
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday at a
conference in Atlanta. While he wouldn’t “rule out” tapering
at the Fed’s Oct. 29-30 meeting, Lockhart said the shutdown is
“compounding the murkiness of the situation that I perceived a
few weeks ago.”  The first partial government shutdown in 17 years has
delayed three economic data releases this week, including the
Labor Department’s monthly jobs report, originally scheduled for
today. The  Federal Open Market Committee  has said it will keep
buying assets until the labor market has “improved
substantially,” and in September it surprised investors by
maintaining its $85 billion monthly pace.  The shutdown “pushes further into the future the time we
can get a real assessment of where the economy is,” Boston Fed
President  Eric Rosengren  said this week in a speech in
Burlington,  Vermont . “It is going to be much harder to get a
gauge of what’s happening in the economy if we don’t have”
statistics produced by agencies that are closed, he said.  An alternative date hasn’t been set for release of the
September jobs report, the Labor Department said in a statement
yesterday. The report, typically released on the first Friday of
each month, includes the  unemployment rate  and data on payroll
employment.  ‘Domino Effect’  A longer shutdown could also delay the release of the jobs
report for October, as government workers normally assigned to
collect that data in the middle of the month wouldn’t be on
duty, creating a “domino effect,” said  Jonathan Basile , an
economist at Credit Suisse in  New York .  On the other hand, a quick end to the shutdown may give
central bankers access to delayed data in time for their next
meeting in October, San Francisco Fed President  John Williams 
said yesterday. The costs from lack of data would become “far
more acute” if the closing persists for months, he said.  The shutdown will trim economic growth as some 800,000
civilian workers deemed non-essential are furloughed, and it is
having a ripple effect on federal contractors including
Hartford, Connecticut-based United Technologies Corp.  Black Hawks  The company’s Sikorsky Aircraft business slowed production
of Black Hawk helicopters after Pentagon inspectors were
furloughed, Gregory Hayes, the company’s chief financial
officer, said Oct. 1 at a meeting with analysts and investors in
Monterrey,  Mexico . The inspectors are required to do reviews of
the choppers as they’re being manufactured, Hayes said.  The Fed’s Williams estimated a two-week shutdown would trim
economic growth by 0.25 percentage point in the fourth quarter.
A week-long closing would probably shave 0.1 point from growth,
according to the median estimate of 40 economists in a Bloomberg
survey this week. The economy expanded at a 2.5 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter.  The U.S. Commerce Department has suspended the release of
economic data provided by its agencies. Reports on subjects from
construction spending to factory orders are all issued by
agencies within the department.  Private reports are still being published. Among them is
the Tempe, Arizona-based Institute for Supply Management’s non-manufacturing Index, which yesterday showed that  service
industries  in August expanded at a slower pace than forecast by
economists.  Stocks Fall  U.S. stocks fell yesterday after the ISM gauge and on
concern the government shutdown would hurt economic growth.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.9 percent to
1,678.66 at 4 p.m. in New York, trimming a loss of as much as
1.4 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields decreased one basis point
to 2.61 percent after rising three points earlier.  Measures of wholesale and business inventories, retail
sales and international trade are scheduled to be released next
week and also could be delayed if the shutdown continues. The
three reports are used to compute gross domestic product.  “Clearly it means a much more opaque situation and
probably on the margin means a more cautious Fed,” said  Michael Hanson , a former Fed economist who is now senior U.S. economist
for Bank of America Corp. in New York.  Bank of America economists are forecasting a December start
to the Fed’s reduction in monthly asset purchases. The team will
re-assess that projection this week as budget negotiations
develop in  Washington , Hanson said.  “All else being equal, the longer this drags on, the more
likely it is we don’t get tapering this year,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  