-- Felda Seeking Land Acquisitions With $814 Million Left From IPO
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-10-03T06:41:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/felda-seeking-land-acquisitions-with-814-million-left-from-ipo.html
Felda Global Ventures Bhd. (FGV) , the
world’s third-largest manager of oil palm plantations, may buy
land in  Southeast Asia  and expand into Africa with 2.6 billion
ringgit ($814 million) remaining from its share sale.  The Malaysian planter, which completed the world’s third-largest initial public offering in 2012 at $3.3 billion, is
seeking land in  Indonesia , Cambodia and Myanmar, Chief Executive
Officer Mohd Emir Mavani Abdullah told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
today. The company also exploring  palm oil  operations in Africa,
he said.  Malaysia has reached the limit of area it can use for oil
palm cultivation, spurring planters to either seek local
takeovers or land abroad to grow their portfolios.  Felda  used
IPO proceeds to complete the 1.2 billion ringgit takeover of
Pontian United Plantations Bhd. this week, while local
competitor IOI Corp. yesterday made a bid for  Unico-Desa
Plantations Bhd. (UDP)   “Felda is keen to expand into the Asean region, including
land acquisitions in Myanmar and Cambodia,” Mohd Emir said,
referring to Southeast Asia. It is also looking for “green
field lands in Indonesia as the currency is down and it’s a good
time to buy.”  The rupiah has fallen 13 percent this year against the
dollar, the most among 11 most-traded Asia Pacific currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The Pontian acquisition boosted Felda’s land-bank by four
percent, adding 40,000 acres, Mohd Isa Abdul Samad, Felda’s non-executive chairman, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur today.  Demand Crimped  While Malaysia’s output of palm oil can grow through higher
productivity, it may not increase much above today’s levels, the
government said in March. A tripling in palm oil prices from
2006 to March 2008 drove planters including Sime Darby Bhd., the
world’s top palm oil producers to turn to new countries with
suitable climates such as Liberia.  Slower growth in  China  and recessions in  Europe  have since
crimped demand for the world’s most-used cooking oil, hurting
prices and pushing inventory to record highs in Malaysia and
Indonesia earlier this year.  Crude palm oil futures for delivery in December fell 1
percent to 2,289 ringgit per metric ton on the Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives exchange as of 12:30 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur  today.  “We expect palm oil prices to do better in the first
quarter of next year, between 2,400 to 2,500 ringgit,” Emir
said. “If soya bean prices goes up next year, chances of CPO
prices going up is also high.”  Felda plans to replant at least 15,000 hectares annually
for which it has allocated 210 million ringgit for the next
three years, Emir said. “Increasing productivity and efficiency
of our assets, especially in terms of improving our oil
extraction rate and yield, is an important facet of our growth
strategy,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers in Singapore at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  