-- Fiat’s Marchionne Says Not Closer to Chrysler Deal Amid Talks
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-03T11:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fiat-s-marchionne-says-not-closer-to-chrysler-deal-amid-talks.html
Fiat SpA (F)  isn’t closer to reaching an
agreement with a United Auto Workers retiree health-care trust
over the Italian carmaker’s  Chrysler Group LLC  unit in the U.S.,
Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  said today.  Negotiations with the labor group should continue,
Marchionne, who is CEO of both Fiat and Chrysler, told reporters
in L’Aquila in the central Italian region of Abruzzo.  “We are still having chats but I don’t have a deal,”Marchionne said today. The initial public offering process will
set a “clear” value of the holding as an agreement isn’t
closer, Marchionne said.  Chrysler filed for an IPO on Sept. 23 at the behest of
retiree health-care trust, its other owner. Preparations for the
stock sale may help resolve a pricing dispute over the trust’s
stake that has prevented Marchionne, 61, from completing a full
takeover of the U.S. company. At the same time, Turin-based Fiat
has said an IPO of Chrysler may put the manufacturers’
relationship at risk.  Marchionne has spent the past four years working to combine
Fiat and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler to create a
global player with the scale to compete with  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)  He has offered the trust
about $1 billion less than what the labor group is demanding for
its stake. The two sides may go to trial in a Delaware court as
late as 2015 to resolve the disagreement.  Detroit Show  Marchionne said today he doesn’t know if a deal could be
agreed before the Detroit car show in January. An IPO is
“technically possible” in 2013 while it’s likely to be ready
in 2014.  Marchionne declined to comment today on the carmaker’s 2013
target as he will update on forecasts at the end of the month,
he said. Marchionne also said Europe car sales might recover
starting next year though he doesn’t expect any “significant”
rebound.  Buying the trust’s 41.5 percent holding in Chrysler would
give Fiat access to the U.S. company’s $12 billion in cash to
help fund a turnaround in  Europe , where the Italian company is
losing money and market share. Fiat owns the other 58.5 percent
of Chrysler. Marchionne has said he wanted to merge the two
manufacturers as early as next year.  Fiat shares traded 1 percent lower at 6.05 euros at 1:34
p.m. in Milan.  Value Estimates  The trust received the holding as part of Chrysler’s
government-backed recovery from bankruptcy in 2009. Although
Fiat already has the right to buy the stake for about $6
billion, Marchionne has said that he’s seeking to pay much less.
The legal dispute centers on Fiat’s offer of $139.7 million to
acquire a 3.3 percent Chrysler stake from the labor group under
an option agreement. The trust is demanding $342 million for the
tranche.  Buoyed by a recovery in industrywide U.S. car sales to pre-recession levels, Chrysler may be valued at $13.5 billion, which
would make the health fund’s stake worth about $5.6 billion,
according to estimates by UBS AG. Fiat may end up paying $4.9
billion to buy the trust’s holding because of an option allowing
the Italian carmaker to purchase part of the stake at a lower
price, analysts at the Swiss bank said in a research report in
September.  Marchionne received an award today from authorities in
Abruzzo, where he grew up before his family moved to  Canada  in
the 1960s. Much of L’Aquila was destroyed by an earthquake in
2009 that killed hundreds of people. The building where
Marchionne received the award is still under restoration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in L’Aquila, Italy, at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  