-- Flaherty Names RBC’s Taylor to Canada Pension Plan Board
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-10-03T20:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/flaherty-names-rbc-s-taylor-to-canada-pension-plan-investment.html
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  named
Kathleen Taylor as a director of the Canada  Pension Plan 
Investment Board, the nation’s largest retirement-fund manager.  This marks the second appointment for Taylor in six weeks
after she was named chairwoman at  Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the
country’s biggest lender, starting next year. The CPPIB, which
reported C$188.9 billion ($183 billion) of assets on Aug. 9,
works independently of government to invest taxpayer pension
contributions.  “Ms. Taylor’s global operational expertise and significant
financial-services-board experience will make her a solid
contributor,” Flaherty said in a statement today from Ottawa.
Taylor didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail request for
comment.  Taylor, 56, the former chief executive officer of Four
Seasons Hotels & Resorts, has been on Royal Bank’s board since
2001. She has a master’s degree in business administration from
the Schulich School of Business and a law degree from Osgoode
Hall Law School at  York University  in Toronto.  “Katie will be a valuable addition to our board and
contribute significantly to CPPIB’s ability to fulfill its
crucial responsibility to provide a foundation upon which 18
million Canadians build their financial security in
retirement,” Bob Astley, Canada Pension Plan chairman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  Canada Pension Plan’s first chairman was a female, Gail Cook-Bennett, who later became the non-executive chairman at
 Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , the country’s biggest insurer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  