-- Fleeing Foreigners Impede Portugal’s Own Exit Plans
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 2013-10-04T08:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fleeing-foreigners-impede-portugal-s-own-exit-plans-euro-credit.html
Portugal’s plan to leave its bailout
program and return fully to international markets risks being
hindered by some investors making their own exit.  Foreign money managers were net sellers in June and July
after buying in May, increasing the proportion of securities
owned by residents. Domestic banks held a record 33 billion
euros ($45 billion) of the nation’s government debt on Aug. 31,
European Central Bank data published last week showed.  “When investors decide to go out for a while, it takes a
lot for them to go back in,” said  Huw Worthington , a fixed-income strategist at Barclays Plc in  London . “You need those
foreign investors. Without them, Portugal issuing debt for
longer maturities will be very difficult indeed.”  Portuguese bonds were the worst performers in the euro
region in the third quarter as a rift in the government over
budget policy threatened to derail plans to end reliance on
emergency funding and avoid a second bailout package. Yields on
the country’s  10-year securities , which breached 8 percent on
July 3, exceed those of Ireland and  Belgium  combined even after
the rate fell today to a one-month low of 6.5 percent.  The country is scheduled to leave its aid plan by June
2014, while fellow recipient Ireland is aiming to return fully
to credit markets earlier. Moody’s Investors Service, Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings all rate  Portugal  as non-investment
grade, or junk. Ireland is rated junk only at Moody’s.  Portugal’s debt is forecast to peak at 127.8 percent of GDP
this year, the European Union, ECB and  International Monetary
Fund  in a joint statement yesterday after completing the
country’s eighth and ninth reviews.  Public debt is “clearly” sustainable, Finance Minister
Maria Luis  Albuquerque  said at yesterday’s press conference. The
country plans to resume regular bond issuance next year and
doesn’t rule out another bond sale this year, Albuquerque said.
It also aims to do some debt exchanges, she said.  Risk Averse  “Broadening the investor base will be very difficult with
the risk-taking capacities of the domestic private sector
constrained and non-investment grade ratings keeping
institutional investors on the sidelines,”  Michael Leister , a
senior rates strategist at Commerzbank AG in London, advised
clients in a note on Sept. 26.  Portugal’s debt handed investors a loss of 1.4 percent in
the July to September period, the worst performance of 14 euro-area sovereign markets tracked by Bloomberg World Bond Indexes.
Spanish securities earned 3.1 percent, Italian debt gained 1.7
percent and Greek bonds added 11 percent, the indexes show.  Government bonds  and Treasury bills held by Portuguese
investors rose to a record 62.6 billion euros at the end of
July, up 16 billion euros from March 2011, which was a month
before the country requested aid, according to the latest
figures from the  Bank of Portugal .  Demand Imbalance  Debt owned by foreigners retreated for a second month to 68
billion euros in July. Data for August won’t be published until
later this month. The total includes the holdings of Portuguese
debt by the ECB, which stood at 22.8 billion euros of bonds
under the Securities Markets Program as of December.  While  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s largest asset manager,
said last week Portuguese bonds were among the euro-region debt
it had been buying, the shift toward domestic money is likely to
increase. More of the country’s pension reserves will be
invested in bonds, part of the bailout program agreed with the
ECB, European Commission and IMF.  The Social Security Financial Stabilization Fund, which
keeps enough money to cover at least two years of payments to
retirees, is increasing the proportion of domestic debt that it
holds to as much as 90 percent from 55 percent. That still won’t
be enough to fill the void, said Leister at Commerzbank.  “One-off measures are insufficient to solve structural
supply-demand imbalances,” he said.  German Spread  Foreign investors became net-sellers after increasing their
holdings in May, when the country sold 10-year bonds for the
first time in more than two years, according to a  presentation 
by the country’s debt agency IGCP.  Ten-year bond  yields (GSPT10YR)  declined to 5.19 percent on May 21,
the lowest since August 2010 and narrowing the difference over
equivalent German debt to 384 basis points, or 3.84 percentage
points. The  spread  was 468 basis points today after rising to a
high of 595 on July 12, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Portugal’s Deputy Prime Minister Paulo Portas said two
weeks ago that the government would be interested in negotiating
a precautionary program after the external aid plan ends. The
 Finance Ministry  denied Sept. 28 that there talks about a second
aid package following a report by newspaper Publico.  Last year, the ECB unveiled its Outright Monetary
Transactions program, an as-yet-unused pledge to buy the bonds
of crisis-hit countries in the euro area that sign up to reform
conditions. ECB President  Mario Draghi  has said eligibility is
conditional on a country having full-market access, suggesting a
broad spectrum of investors must be willing to buy fresh debt
before the nation can qualify for help.  “Portugal exiting its bailout as smoothly as Ireland seems
unlikely,” said Worthington at Barclays. “The prospect of a
second bailout is becoming higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  