-- For Some Chinese, Shutdown Makes U.S. Look Strong
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-10-03T17:09:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/for-some-chinese-shutdown-makes-u-s-look-strong.html
While some Americans fret that the
U.S. government shutdown is destroying the nation’s  credibility 
abroad, the first thing you need to know about the Chinese
reaction is that the crisis in  Washington  has barely registered.  That, at least, must be the conclusion drawn from the
 trending-topics list  at Sina Weibo, China’s leading social-media
site where -- as of late Thursday afternoon -- the news doesn’t
register in the top 20. Rather, instead of worrying about the
fiscal and political health of the superpower to which their
government lends their money, Chinese microbloggers are instead
focused on  celebrities ,  iPads , and the  sexy pole dancers  hired
to perform for the incoming freshman at Beijing’s elite  Tsinghua
University .  This is a modest change from earlier in the week when the
shutdown briefly reached as high as No. 2 on the list, according
to Liz Carter at  Foreign Policy . But interest was fleeting, its
staying power low, and so -- while the Tsinghua pole dancers
remained in the top twenty for much of the last week -- the
shutdown has slid off the charts.  To some extent, the lack of interest suggests an implicit
and perhaps surprising confidence that -- for all of its flaws -
- the American system will manage through this crisis just fine.
Indeed, amid the microblogged ambivalence, there’s a  discernible
thread  suggesting that the shutdown actually demonstrates the
strength and even superiority of the U.S. system, especially as
compared to  China ’s. “This incident exhibits the flexibility of
their system,”  tweeted  an anonymous Sina Weibo user on Thursday
afternoon. “It is manifestation of their institutional
confidence and demonstrates the highly developed nature of their
democracy and rule of law.”  Few microbloggers are quite so high-minded and rare is the
voice criticizing the U.S. for its gridlock. Instead, it’s far
easier to find voices speculating on the shutdown’s potential
impact on  gold prices  and  financial markets .  Meanwhile, it isn’t just China’s easily distracted
microbloggers who have failed to find much of interest in the
shutdown. State-run media -- never shy about trumpeting alleged
failings in the American political system -- have been unusually
reserved and even reticent on the shutdown. People’s Daily, the
official voice of the Chinese Communist Party, has taken no
editorial position; the nationalist and wildly popular Global
Times, never a friend of the U.S., has run a relatively
informative  Q&A  explaining the origins of the standoff. Only
Xinhua, the state-run newswire, has  offered  anything
approximating an official government opinion, and it, too, was
anodyne except for a brief passage expressing indignation on
behalf of  foreign sightseers . “As a matter of fact, foreigners
have already suffered from the shutdown with more than 400
historical sites and scenic spots across the country closed to
tourists.”  This latter point hints at what might, in fact, be the most
important explanation for China’s ambivalence toward the
shutdown: the country is on vacation, enjoying a national
holiday, “ golden week ,” which started Tuesday (simultaneous
with the shutdown). It is a time when China’s non-essential
government services are mothballed, state-run newspaper
editorialists are at the (proverbial) beach, and the country’s
office drones have better ways to distract themselves than
tweeting from work.  In other words, like anyone with limited vacation days,
China’s opinion makers have prioritized what’s important during
the holidays, and likely decided that Boehner v. Reid doesn’t
make the list. That may change next week when everyone returns
to work and finds that the debt-ceiling crisis -- and China’s
stake in it -- looms ever closer. But until then, vacationing
China appears to have its priorities straight.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry.  Follow  him on Twitter.)
 