-- Former Telstra CEO Switkowski to Run Australia’s Fiber Network
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-10-03T07:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/former-telstra-ceo-switkowski-to-run-australia-s-fiber-network.html
Telstra Corp. (TLS) ’s former Chief
Executive Officer Ziggy Switkowski will act as executive
chairman of NBN Co., the Australian government-owned company
building a national fiber broadband network in the country.  Switkowski, the chairman of  Suncorp Group Ltd. (SUN)  and
 Chancellor  of the RMIT University, will start in the role
immediately, Communications Minister  Malcolm Turnbull  said at a
press conference today. Former NBN Co. Chief Executive Mike Quigley announced his retirement in July.  Turnbull, who took over as minister after Australia’s
former Labor government lost the Sept. 7 election, has
criticized NBN Co. for missed targets and cost overruns. On
Sept. 24, Turnbull said the company’s target for the number of
buildings with fiber broadband connections by the end of June
2014 had been revised down by almost half from the company’s
projections four months earlier.  “Labor’s made shocking mistakes, there’s billions of
dollars that Labor has wasted that we will never be able to
recover,” he said. “We are determined to see a national
broadband network completed cheaper and sooner for consumers.”  Kerry Schott and Alison Lansley, two members of the former
 seven-person board , will remain as part of a three-person board.
Other members had already tendered their resignations to allow
the government to change NBN Co.’s strategy, Turnbull said Sept.
24. Siobhan McKenna stepped down from the role of chairman after
assuming the job March 15.  The previous government’s plan would have run fiber direct
to almost every home and workplace in the country and had a cost
of A$44 billion ($41 billion) in its most recent corporate plan.  Copper Network  Turnbull and Prime Minister  Tony Abbott  have promised to
instead connect all households to high-speed Internet by 2016
for A$30 billion, saving money by running the fiber only as far
as junction boxes as much as a kilometer from homes and covering
the remaining distance using existing copper wires.  Switkowski, who led Telstra between 1999 and 2005, when it
was still  majority-owned  by Australia’s government, is “one of
the most experienced telecom executives in Australia,” Turnbull
said.  Switkowski will become a non-executive chairman once a new
chief executive is appointed, Turnbull said. The choice of chief
executive will be made by the board and the government together
and will be completed “as soon as possible,” he said.  At NBN Co., Switkowski will be responsible for leading a
switchover which will disburse about A$11 billion in payments to
his former employer as Telstra moves from being  Australia ’s
biggest seller of wholesale phone services to its biggest
consumer.  He’s also a former chief executive of Optus Communications
Pty., the country’s second-ranked phone company that’s now owned
by Singapore Telecommunications Ltd.  Strategic Review  Turnbull also said an internal strategic review of NBN Co.
to work out how to deliver the network quicker and more cheaply
would start today. Construction work on the network will
continue while a planned 60-day review of the project is carried
out, and companies building the infrastructure will continue
work “well into 2014,” Turnbull said Sept. 24.  The revised target for rollout, which will give less than 1
million homes and businesses access to the network in June 2014,
compares to a 2.7 million forecast in NBN Co.’s 2011  corporate
plan . The original plan called for 12 million fiber connections
by the project’s completion in 2021.  About  33,600 homes and businesses  were using the fiber
network at the end of June, with 207,500 premises connected to
the cables, compared to a target of more than 2 million
connections in NBN Co.’s earlier  2011 corporate plan .  The network now being proposed would give households
download speeds of 25 megabits per second by 2016, according to
the government. A 512-megabyte movie would take around four
minutes to download at 20 megabits per second and two minutes at
50 megabits per second, according to  Thinkbroadband.com .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  