-- Fubon Life to Invest Up to $3 Bln in Overseas Properties
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   A d e l a   L i n
-- 2013-10-03T08:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/fubon-life-to-invest-up-to-3-billion-in-overseas-properties.html
Fubon Life Insurance Co., a unit of
 Taiwan ’s second-biggest financial company by assets, plans to
buy as much as $3 billion of overseas properties after rules on
insurers’ real estate investments were eased.  Fubon Life wants to buy $2 billion to $3 billion and
expects to reach that target in the next four to five years,
Vice Chairman Howard Lin said in an interview yesterday in
Taipei. The company, with about $70 billion in assets under
management, is looking for its first overseas purchase, he said.  Taiwan’s Financial Supervisory Commission in April allowed
insurers seeking stable returns to invest in real estate abroad,
after limiting them from purchasing domestically to rein in
commercial property prices on the island. Insurance companies
accounted for about 40 percent of commercial property
transactions on the island, which rose to the highest since at
least 2008, before the ban last year.  “Rents in Taiwan are not rising as fast as prices, so
investment margins on domestic properties are quite low,” said
Lin, who was appointed chief investment officer of parent  Fubon
Financial Holding Co. (2881) , on Oct. 1. “When you allow insurers to
buy overseas properties, they can choose from more buildings and
it’s certainly a good thing for them.”  Fubon Financial rose 3.2 percent to close at NT$42.00 in
Taipei, the biggest gain since June 27.  Investment Rose  Real estate investment in Taiwan rose to NT$302 billion
($10.3 billion) in 2012, up 13 percent from a year earlier,
fueled by demand from insurers including Fubon Life, Cathay Life
Insurance Co. and Nanshan Life Insurance Co., according to
figures compiled by CBRE Group Inc., the world’s biggest
commercial realtor.  An index compiled by broker DTZ Holdings Plc shows office
prices in Taiwan rose to the highest since at least 2005 at the
end of 2012.  The commission in April recommended six cities for insurers
to buy properties:  New York ,  London , Toronto,  Frankfurt ,
 Shanghai , and  Ho Chi Minh City . Overseas real estate purchases
by Taiwanese insurers will have to be approved by the
commission.  Fubon will also look at Tokyo and Paris, Lin said, adding
that the company wants properties with a gross margin of more
than 4.5 percent. Fubon Life’s property investments in northern
Taiwan have a margin of about 3 percent, while its investments
in central and southern Taiwan have a margin of 4 percent to 4.5
percent, he said.  Commission’s Approval  Fubon Life aims to raise its real estate holdings to about
5 percent to 10 percent of total investments, from about 5
percent, Lin said.  The company is among a few big Taiwanese insurers that so
far meet the commission’s capital ratio rule, allowing them to
invest in overseas properties, according to CBRE.  In August, the government lifted some restrictions,
including a ban on buying of domestic commercial property by
insurers with financial irregularities. It kept some measures
implemented in November to control office prices, including
asking insurers to avoid investing in properties in Taiwan with
an annual yield below 2.875 percent.  Fubon Life, which has about $3 billion invested in domestic
real estate, Cathay Life and Shin Kong Life Insurance Co. are
among insurers that had their ban on property investment lifted
this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in  Hong Kong  at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  