-- Gambia Quits Commonwealth After President Slams Colonialists
-- B y   S u w a i b o u   T o u r a y
-- 2013-10-03T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/gambia-quits-commonwealth-after-president-slammed-colonialists.html
Gambia withdrew from the
Commonwealth, a group of mainly former British colonies, saying
it won’t accept any form of foreign domination.  The termination of the West African nation’s membership
takes effect immediately, according to a government statement
broadcast yesterday on state-owned Gambia Radio and Television
Service. The decision was announced five days after President
Yahya Jammeh criticized former colonial powers for prescribing
democracy, human rights and good governance on the continent.  “Present day Africans cannot be hoodwinked anymore and we
are determined to defend our independence and dignity, and take
control of our natural resources at any cost and by any means
necessary,” Jammeh said in a  speech  at the  United Nations
General Assembly  on Sept. 27.  Gambia joined the Commonwealth after gaining independence
from the U.K. in 1965. It’s the smallest country in mainland
 Africa  and has a population of 1.8 million people, according to
the  World Bank . The $920 million economy is forecast by the
 International Monetary Fund  to expand 8.9 percent this year.  The country ranks 168 out of 187 nations on the United
Nations’ Human Development Index, which measures social and
economic indicators such as education, health and income.  Excluding Gambia, the Commonwealth has 53 members of which
18 are in Africa, according to the organization’s website.  Commonwealth ‘Regret’  “Decisions on Commonwealth membership are a matter for
each member government,” the U.K. Foreign Office said in an e-mailed statement. “We would very much regret Gambia, or any
other country, deciding to leave the Commonwealth.”  Jammeh, 48, came to power in a 1994 coup. He won a fourth
term in office in elections last year that were rejected by the
Economic Community of West African States for being held in a
political environment not conducive to free and fair polls. His
rule has been faulted by groups such as  Amnesty International 
for alleged human-rights violations including unlawful arrests
and unfair trials.  In 2007, Jammeh’s claim that he could cure AIDS with a
herbal treatment was rejected by groups including the  World
Health Organization . In his speech to the UN General Assembly
last week, Jammeh also criticized homosexuality, calling it a
threat to “human existence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suwaibou Touray in Banjul at 
 stouray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  