-- Gandhi Outburst Shows Reluctant Heir Rise Before India Vote
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/gandhi-outburst-shows-reluctant-heir-emerging-before-india-vote.html
Since Rahul Gandhi joined his mother
to help lead  India ’s ruling political party about a decade ago,
he has mostly stayed on the sidelines, turning down cabinet
posts and rarely speaking to the media.  That changed when he gate-crashed a press briefing last
week to denounce a cabinet order allowing convicted lawmakers to
retain their seats. Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , hand-picked
by Gandhi’s mother Sonia to run the country in 2004, was forced
to retract the order two days ago while rebuffing calls to
resign over the public rebuke.  “It marks the transformation of a reluctant Rahul to a
more determined Rahul,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, chairman of the
New Delhi-based Centre for Media Studies. “His move has put the
spotlight on him and has broken Modi’s momentum,” he said,
referring to Narendra Modi, the main opposition party’s
candidate for prime minister.  Gandhi’s action, lambasted by opponents as an election
ploy, helps to distance his Congress party from Singh’s
administration before elections that must be held by May in the
country of 1.2 billion people. Corruption scandals and an
economy that grew at the slowest pace in a decade last fiscal
year have bolstered support for Modi’s  Bharatiya Janata Party .  The episode began on Sept. 24, when Singh’s 31-member
cabinet approved an executive order to negate a July ruling by
the country’s top court to bar some lawmakers convicted of
crimes from holding office. Ruling party leaders including
Finance Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram initially defended the
order amid criticism from the BJP.  Gandhi Surprise  Congress party spokesman Ajay Maken told reporters gathered
three days later at New Delhi’s press club that the cabinet move
was “perfect” and emanated from the “collective wisdom” of
Singh, Rahul Gandhi and  Sonia Gandhi . While speaking, he
suddenly received a phone call, and announced that the party’s
vice president would soon join.  Rahul Gandhi arrived about five minutes later. When in
front of the cameras, he told reporters the order was
“nonsense” and it should be “torn up and thrown away.”  After the brief appearance, Maken again took the microphone
and quickly praised the 43-year-old leader.  “Rahul has given an opinion on the issue, and now it is
the Congress view,” he said.  The exchange caught the 81-year-old Singh by surprise just
as he was about to meet President  Barack Obama  in Washington
D.C. Reporters traveling with him asked if he would resign.  Singh U-Turn  “I am not the master of what people say,” Singh  said ,
adding that the decision had been discussed twice with the
cabinet and also with the “core group” of the party. “When I
go back I will try to find out the reasons why it had to be done
that way and how do we handle it.”  Within 24 hours after Singh arrived back in India, he met
with his cabinet and revoked the ordinance. It also moved to
withdraw legislation that would have the same effect.  Rahul Gandhi  yesterday expressed regret for his tone while
standing by the statement.  “My mother said the words I used were wrong, but I was
right in sentiment,” he told reporters in Ahmedabad, according
to Times Now news channel. “I think I used strong words, and I
could have avoided those strong words.”  Public Mood  Gandhi was responding to the mood of the growing middle
class, which is aghast at misgovernance and the political
class’s eager willingness to protect its own interest at the
expense of public interest, the Times of India newspaper said in
its editorial today.  Gandhi’s family has dominated Congress and Indian politics
since freedom from British rule in 1947.  Jawaharlal Nehru ,
Rahul’s great-grandfather and independence movement hero, became
the country’s first prime minister. He was followed by his
daughter, Indira Gandhi, and her son,  Rajiv Gandhi , Rahul’s
father. Both were assassinated, drawing comparisons with the
Kennedy family.  For most of his political career, Rahul Gandhi has avoided
weighing in on issues of national importance. He rarely speaks
in legislative debates and has missed more than half of the
sittings since the present term convened in May 2009, according
to records on parliament website.  ‘Fiddling’ Around  When he has taken up causes, he’s been accused of staging
publicity stunts. In 2009, he spent a night in the house of a
Dalit, the lowest in India’s caste hierarchy, with then-U.K.
Foreign Secretary  David Miliband . Two years later, he dodged
police at an early morning farmer’s protest near Delhi while
riding pillion on a motorbike.  “He is normally fiddling all the time while  Rome  is
burning,” said Jatin Gandhi, who co-authored a biography of
Rahul Gandhi and isn’t related to the man. “He is trying to
take some attention away from  Narendra Modi .”  Modi, chief minister of Gujarat state, took aim at Rahul
Gandhi during a New Delhi campaign rally on Sept. 29, calling
the election a choice between a “prince” and a leader who once
served tea on the railways. His party may win three out of four
states holding elections in the next few months, indicating a
surge in support before national polls, according to an opinion
survey released last month by the Times Now channel and C-voter.  “Only sycophants are giving credit to Rahul Gandhi for the
withdrawal of ordinance,” BJP spokesman Sidharth Nath Singh
said. “The prime minister is holding office without any power
and the family is enjoying power without accountability. This is
a sorry state of affairs.”  Whether the move will pay off at the polls for Congress
remains to be seen. After Rahul Gandhi last year took charge of
the party’s campaign for state elections in  Uttar Pradesh ,
India’s most populous state, it finished in fourth place.  Either way, Rahul Gandhi has demonstrated to the nation his
influence over the party and the government, according to
Subrata Mukherjee, a former political science professor at Delhi
University.  “There is no party minus Gandhi,” Mukherjee said. “The
Congress Party does not exist without him.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  