-- Given Seen Luring Fujinon to Olympus: Israel Overnight
-- B y   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-03T12:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/given-seen-luring-fujinon-to-olympus-israel-overnight.html
Given Imaging Ltd. (GIVN) , the Israeli maker
of swallowable cameras, could attract buyers from Fujinon Corp.
to  Olympus Corp. (7733)  after an investor urged the company to sell
itself, Cantor Fitzgerald LP and Maxim Group LLC said.  Shares of the Yokneam, Israel-based company fell 0.2
percent to $19.82 yesterday after reaching a two-year high on
Oct. 1. The Bloomberg Israel-US Index of the most actively
traded Israeli companies in the U.S. gained for a third day. The
Tel Aviv shares slipped 0.6 percent to 69.74, or $19.68, at
10:09 a.m. local time. Allot Communications Ltd. rose the most
since June after the company said it received a new order for
its products.  Discovery Group, which owns about 4 percent of Given’s
shares, said yesterday it wants the company to resume exploring
a sale process after ending a search for a possible merger in
January. The Israeli developer of capsule-sized cameras is
expecting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to rule later
this year on the PillCam Colon for the examination of patients
unwilling or unable to undergo colonoscopy.  “Potential buyers will come to Given once they receive
approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for the
PillCam Colon 2,” Bryan Brokmeier, analyst at Maxim, said by
phone from New York yesterday. “Buyers such as Olympus,
Fujinon, or  Boston  Scientific Corp. could be interested in
acquiring the company once the FDA approval comes through.”  Given hired advisers from Barclays Plc to consider a
possible sale or merger last year. The company failed to execute
its business strategy, causing management to lose credibility
and hurting the stock price, Discovery Group said.  Sales Force  “One name that was mentioned as a rumored suitor last year
was Fujinon,” Jeremy Feffer, analyst at Cantor Fitzgerald, said
by phone from  Chicago  yesterday. “Fujinon is in the business
already and has the global sales force to fully maximize the
value of Given’s products.”  “The Board of Directors will review the letter and respond
in due course,” David Carey, an investor relations
representative with Lazar Partners Ltd., said in an e-mail
statement yesterday on behalf of Given.  Peter Luke, a spokesman for Boston Scientific, said by
phone from Boston that the company does not comment on
speculation. A representatives at  Fujifilm Holdings Corp. (4901) , the
parent company of Fujinon, did not immediately respond to e-mailed requests for comment. Mika Katsumata, a press official at
Olympus, said the company isn’t considering the “matter at this
moment.” Brokmeier and Feffer said they didn’t have any direct
knowledge of discussions.  Undergo Colonoscopies  Given Imaging suffered a setback last year when it said it
wouldn’t submit its PillCam Colon 2 to the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for general screening use, and instead opted to
limit its product to patients who are unable to undergo or
complete colonoscopies.  The company said on Sept. 23 that the latest version of the
PillCam SB, aimed at detecting and monitoring Crohn’s disease
and other conditions of the small bowel, was approved by
Japanese medical authorities.  Given, which  posted  the slowest revenue growth on record in
2012, will probably see sales rise 8.6 percent to $196 million
in 2013, according to the mean estimate of three analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Allot (ALLT) , the Israeli maker of technology used to track
wireless traffic, surged 12 percent to $14.09. The company said
it received a “multimillion dollar” contract from a “major
U.S.-based cloud provider,” according to a statement yesterday.
Volumes on Allot were more than three times the average during
the past 90 days.  Allot Revenue  The Hod Hasharon-based company will report  revenue  of $25.8
million in the third quarter, a decline of 7.2 percent from a
year ago, according to the mean of 10 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Allot closed at a gap of 10 cents above the Tel
Aviv-listed shares, the first premium since Sept. 23. Those
shares were little changed this morning.  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge added 0.1 percent to $101.04,
the highest since July 2011.  Nice Systems (NICE) , the Israeli maker of
analytical telecommunications products, fell 1.5 percent to
$40.99. Shares in Tel Aviv this morning slipped 0.6 percent to
145.10 shekels, or $40.96.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  