-- Gnanalingam Emerges as Billionaire on Malaysian Port IPO
-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l
-- 2013-10-03T06:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/gnanalingam-emerges-as-billionaire-on-malaysian-port-ipo.html
Westports (WPRTS)  Holdings Bhd. Executive
Chairman G. Gnanalingam has become a billionaire as the main
operator at one of  Malaysia ’s biggest ports sells shares in the
country’s largest initial public offering this year.  Gnanalingam, 69, and his family will reduce their stake in
Westports to 46.8 percent from 60 percent previously, according
to the company’s prospectus. Their stake in the company after
the share sale is valued at about $1.2 billion, according to the
Bloomberg Billionaires Index. He and his family are also getting
about $350 million from selling some stock. Shares will start
trading in  Kuala Lumpur  on Oct. 18.  Westports operates facilities at Port Klang, one of the
main hubs serving container traffic along the Straits of
Malacca, which links  Asia  with the  Middle East  and  Europe .
Westports has a 69 percent share of container volume at the
port, with six terminals and the potential to build another
three, according to its website.  “It is strategic in terms of shipping logistics,” said
 Alan Richardson , a Hong Kong-based money manager at Samsung
Asset Management, which bought the company’s shares. “It is
well located along the Straits of Malacca, which is the key
shipping route from the west to the east.”  Westports raised 2.03 billion ringgit ($635 million) in the
IPO. The port operator priced its shares at 2.50 ringgit apiece,
at the top end of a range offered to investors, after getting
excess demand from investors.  Soccer Team Manager  The billionaire, who declined to comment on the share sale
or plans for Westports, said that he runs the company like a
soccer team manager.  “You prepare the team, and train them up and let them play
their own game,” he said in an interview by phone today. “At
the end of the season, you look for better players.”  Known as “Tan Sri G” -- Tan Sri is an honorific title
bestowed by the Malaysian King -- the billionaire is preparing
to hand over the reins of the company to his 37-year-old son,
Ruben Emir Gnanalingam, the chief executive officer. Ruben
joined Westports in 2005 after graduating from the  London School 
of Economics & Political Science.  Born in Singapore, the patriarch grew up in Port Dickson on
Malaysia’s west coast and Kuala Pilah town in Negeri Sembilan
state. He graduated from the University of Malaya and  Harvard
Business School , according to his biography on Westports’
website.  Start at BAT  He started his career as a sales representative with
British American Tobacco group and advanced to become marketing
director at age 34. He stayed on for another 19 years before
setting up a  marketing company , G-team Consultants, which
handled the commercial operations of Malaysia’s state-owned
broadcast station.  In 1994, he started Westports “from a barren, swampy
island” and transformed it into the main container terminal
operator in Port Klang, according to the website.  He urges his operations team to embrace the “F1 Spirit”
and emulate the swiftness of the engineers at a pit stop in
being able to change the tires of a Formula One car and service
it in just seconds.  “If I have to change the tires of my car, that will take
half an hour,” he said in the interview. “If you get organized
and ready for everything, it will just take six seconds.”  Each crane at Westports moves 35 containers an hour,
compared with the industry standard of 27, giving faster
turnaround for vessels, Gnanalingam said on the company’s
website. It handled container throughput of 6.9 million 20-foot
equivalent units last year, the company said.  “The growth outlook is promising,” Samsung Asset’s
Richardson said. “Fifteen percent annual earnings growth is
targeted over the next three years based on shipping container
growth and higher tariffs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in  Singapore  at 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick Chu at 
 pachu@bloomberg.net  