-- Goldman Said to Make $1.5 Million Error in Ford Bond Sale
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2013-10-03T07:51:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/goldman-said-to-make-1-5-million-error-in-ford-bond-sale.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  mistakenly
added about $1.5 million of interest costs to a  Ford Motor Co. (F) 
bond sale last week by using the wrong Treasury note as a
benchmark for the security, according to two people with
knowledge of the transaction.  As compensation, Ford was charged a lower underwriting fee
for the offering of $1 billion of five-year, 2.875 percent notes
from its finance unit, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information is private. The automaker
paid 0.1 percentage point less in fees than in two previous
sales of similar-maturity debt, regulatory filings show.  Goldman Sachs, the sixth-largest underwriter of corporate
bonds worldwide this year, took Ford public in 1956 and a former
executive at the bank,  John Thornton , sits on the carmaker’s
board. Such an error by the New York-based bank is rare across
capital markets, said  AllianceBernstein Holding LP (AB) ’s Ashish Shah, who wasn’t involved in the sale.  “I can’t recall the last time something like this
happened,” said Shah, the head of global credit at New York-based AllianceBernstein, which manages $435 billion. “It’s a
reminder that this is a human-led process,” he said. “It’s
probably something that won’t be repeated for a long time at the
firm.”  Treasury Yields  Michael DuVally , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, and Margaret Mellott at Ford Motor Credit Co., said they couldn’t comment on
details of the bond sale. Goldman has raised $141.3 billion for
companies in debt offerings this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Typically, banks set the price of new corporate securities
by using Treasury bonds with similar maturities. If the U.S.
government issues notes in the middle of the week, underwriters
don’t use that security as a benchmark until the following
Monday.  For Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford’s Sept. 26 offering,
Goldman Sachs added a 1.45 percentage-point spread to the 1.375
percent Treasury note due September 2018 that was auctioned on
Sept. 25, Bloomberg data show. Instead, the bonds should have
been based off the 1.5 percent security that matures in August
2018.  Ford paid $2.5 million, or 0.25 percent of the bond’s
value, to underwrite the sale compared with a 0.35 percent fee
in two previous five-year issues, filings show. Other
underwriters on last week’s sale included  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Banco Bradesco SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in  New York  at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  