-- Goldman to Nomura Warn on Debt to Reserves Ratio: India Credit
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-03T11:52:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/goldman-to-nomura-warn-on-debt-to-reserves-ratio-india-credit.html
Reserve Bank  of  India  data showed the
highest ratio of short-term external debt to currency reserves
in more than a decade, raising alarm bells at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. and Nomura Holdings Inc.  The $97 billion maturing in less than a year amounted to
34.3 percent of  reserves  as of June 30, the highest since at
least March 2001, RBI figures released Sept. 30 show. The ratio
was 146.5 percent during a balance-of-payments crisis in March
1991, according to the report’s partial  data  for the 1990s.
Including longer-term debt, repayments due by June 2014 total
$170 billion, or 60 percent of reserves.  Indonesia ’s comparable
ratio is 55.8 percent.  Asia ’s third-largest economy faces significant risk as
banks and companies seek to refinance global borrowings, even as
the government acts to trim the current-account deficit, Goldman
wrote in a Sept. 30 research note. Nomura said the slowest
economic growth in a decade and a budget deadlock in the U.S.
will damp inflows, further straining India’s finances.  “We expect the focus to turn to India’s external
vulnerability amid a worsening global backdrop,”  Sonal Varma ,
an economist at Nomura in Mumbai, said in an Oct. 1 telephone
interview. “The worst in terms of the quarterly current-account
deficit is likely behind us.”  The  deficit  in the broadest measure of trade was $21.8
billion in April through June, compared with $18.1 billion in
the previous quarter, the RBI said in a Sept. 30 statement. The
median of 26 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a $23
billion gap.  Deficit Outlook  Nomura predicts the widest shortfall among the largest
emerging markets will narrow to 3 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year through March 2014 from a record 4.8
percent the previous period. Goldman analysts  Tushar Poddar  in
Mumbai and Vishal Vaibhaw in Bangalore forecast a 3.5 percent
gap as tariff increases curb gold imports and slower growth
limits domestic demand. GDP increased 5 percent in the year
ended March 31, official data show, the least in a decade.  The current-account deficit will drop to 4 percent of GDP
this fiscal year, according to the median of 14 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. However, the shortfall in the
government’s budget will widen to 5.05 percent of GDP in the
same period, from 4.9 percent the prior year, according to the
median estimates in a separate survey, as Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  boosts spending ahead of elections due by May.  Debt Outflows  Global funds have cut  holdings  of Indian debt by $11.5
billion to $26.9 billion since May 22, when Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first flagged a potential paring of
bond purchases. Since the Fed unexpectedly maintained its buying
on Sept. 18, the figure is down $891.5 million. Foreign reserves
fell to $277 billion in the week through Sept. 20 from $297
billion at the end of 2012, official data show.  “India is one of the countries with the most challenging
macro imbalances,” Goldman analysts including London-based
Thomas Stolper, wrote in a Sept. 30 note to clients. “High-frequency data on Indian capital flows indicate that, even after
the dovish Fed surprise, the funding of the large Indian
external deficit remains a challenge.”  Goldman is selling the rupee against the euro, betting it
will weaken to 92 per euro from 83.9678 today. The Indian
currency advanced 1.2 percent to 61.7400 per dollar today, and
the yield on the 10-year benchmark bond fell nine basis points,
or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.64 percent. Local markets were
shut yesterday for a public holiday.  Fed Stimulus  Societe Generale SA on Oct. 1 closed its sell-rupee trade,
saying global risk sentiment has improved after the Fed
decision. BNP Paribas SA recommends investors buy the rupee,
saying the partial shutdown of the U.S. government will likely
prolong stimulus and boost the amount of cash available in the
global banking system.  “Given the fact that you’re going to see such a disruptive
end to the U.S. fiscal debate, the Fed may continue to feel that
they have to do the heavy lifting in terms of supporting
growth,” Mirza Baig, Singapore-based head of foreign-exchange
and interest rate strategy at BNP Paribas, said in a Sept. 30
telephone interview.  Like Bernanke, new RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan will also be
under pressure to manage the economy with little help from the
government before next year’s elections, according to
 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (SEBA) , or SEB.  Rajan Policy  In his maiden policy review on Sept. 20, Rajan unexpectedly
raised the benchmark repurchase rate to 7.50 percent from 7.25
percent to curb inflation and counter outflows. He said taming
the fastest price increases among the largest  emerging markets 
is his top priority.  Standard & Poor’s  last month reiterated it may downgrade
India’s debt rating to junk as fuel and food subsidies
threatened Prime Minister Singh goal of curbing the government’s
budget deficit. Credit-default swaps insuring the bonds of  State
Bank of India (SBIN) , a proxy for the sovereign, against non-payment
for five years have climbed 140 basis points from the year’s low
of 174 in May, according to data provider CMA.  “At least until the elections are done, Rajan is pretty
much on his own,” Sean Yokota, head of Asia strategy at SEB in
 Singapore , said in a Sept. 30 telephone interview. “Considering
India’s huge funding needs, I wouldn’t consider buying the rupee
until we have clarity on Fed tapering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in  Mumbai  at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  