-- Goldman Sachs Joining Tinkov in $750 Million TCS London IPO
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2013-10-03T11:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/goldman-sachs-joining-tinkov-in-750-million-tcs-bank-london-ipo.html
TCS Group Holding Plc, the owner of
Tinkoff Credit Systems Bank, announced plans for a $750 million
initial public offering in London, set to become this year’s
first Russian company to sell shares in the city.  TCS is poised to sell between $150 million and $200 million
in the form of global depositary receipts this quarter,
according to a statement today from the Russian consumer lender.
Chairman Oleg Tinkov, who owns of 61 percent of the bank, will
sell shares, along with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , Baring Vostok
 Capital Partners , Horizon Capital and Vostok Nafta, TCS Chief
Executive Officer Oliver Hughes said on a conference call. None
of the selling shareholders is exiting, he said.  Tinkov’s offering comes after Russian coal miner
 Sibanthracite Plc (SIB)  and railroad-freight carrier NTS Holding Plc
postponed London IPO plans this year. OAO Alrosa, the world’s
biggest diamond producer by output, plans to sell a 16 percent
stake in Moscow. TCS is seeking to benefit from  Russia ’s growing
consumer lending market, even as credit risk rises.  “We’re very much an online company that enables investors
to tap into the Russian consumer,” Hughes said today. “We have
a very deep reach into Russia’s regions, there’s enormous
potential for growth.”  San Francisco  Russia’s consumer-finance banks face an increase in bad
loans in the unsecured retail lending market, Moody’s Investors
Service Inc. said on Sept. 12, noting TCS among those with
“heightened risks.” Russian bank lending to households rose 34
percent earlier as of Aug. 1 from a year earlier, while
unsecured loans rose 39 percent, according to central bank  data .
That is higher than the regulator deems “comfortable.”  The branchless bank of Tinkoff Credit is modeled on  Capital
One Financial Corp. (COF)  in the U.S., a pioneer of card distribution
via direct mail, which Tinkov said he encountered while living
in  San Francisco .  Hughes said 85 percent of TCS customers live outside Moscow
and  St. Petersburg , Russia’s two biggest cities. The bank had
issued more than 3.5 million credit cards by the end of June,
according to the statement.  TCS Bank’s net income in the first half of the year rose to
$79 million, compared with $52 million in the same period a year
earlier, it said. Total assets equaled $2.42 billion as of June
30, with consumer deposits at $977 million and loans to
customers at $1.95 billion, according to the statement.  Investor Interest  The  London  stock market is the front-runner for an IPO
because there isn’t enough liquidity in Moscow and reporting
rules are too stringent in the U.S., Tinkov said in an interview
last year.  “I think Tinkoff’s IPO will trigger a lot of global
investor interest,” Vadim Bit-Avragim, who helps manage about
$4.4 billion at Kapital Asset Management in Moscow, said by
phone. “This business is closer to the consumer sector, it has
fast growth. Tinkov is a well-known businessman, he is very
active and his views are liked by the investment community.”  TCS sees a “wide investor base” for the IPO, Hughes said,
declining to reveal if the lender has any anchor investors.  Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Sberbank CIB will be
managing the sale, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Renaissance
Capital  will also be joint bookrunners, according to the
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  