-- Goldman Sees Acapulco Vacancies Spurring Rate Cut: Mexico Credit
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-03T20:11:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/goldman-sees-acapulco-vacancies-spurring-rate-cut-mexico-credit.html
Twin hurricanes that struck Mexico
last month are bolstering traders’ conviction that the central
bank will lower  borrowing costs  for a third time this year to
alleviate any damage to economic growth.  Interest-rate swaps  yesterday indicated a 76 percent chance
that Mexico’s central bank will cut its benchmark rate by 0.25
percentage point in the next three months to 3.5 percent. That’s
the highest odds since the eve of policy makers’ half-point
reduction in March. Sixteen of 20 analysts in a Sept. 20 survey
by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit predict at least one more cut
this year, versus just three who anticipated the quarter-point
reduction on Sept. 6.  Hurricanes Ingrid and Manuel left at least 157 people dead,
with flooding that decimated crops such as tomatoes and chili
peppers while disrupting deliveries and emptying hotels in
Acapulco. While the destruction may push up inflation as food
prices rise, it will pressure the central bank to cut borrowing
costs to bolster an economy already growing at the slowest pace
since 2009, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “The economy was already debilitated, and it was hammered
by this shock,” Alberto Ramos, the chief Latin America
economist at Goldman Sachs in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It makes sense for the central bank to ease more
after this devastation.”  Easing Potential  Before the hurricanes, Ramos expected the central bank to
lower its 3.75 percent rate by 0.25 percentage point on Oct. 25
to a record-low 3.5 percent. The storms opened the door to a
half-point cut this month or another reduction to 3.25 percent
in December, he said. President Enrique Pena Nieto said the
storms were the most intense on record.  Ricardo Medina Macias, a spokesman for Banco de  Mexico ,
didn’t respond to e-mail and voice messages seeking comment.  Manuel and Ingrid drove more than 50,000 people from their
homes and stranded 40,000 more in the resort city of Acapulco,
including tourists from Mexico City who were celebrating over
the country’s Independence Day holiday weekend.  While most Acapulco hotels were spared from damage,
occupancy rates have declined due to the closing of the highway
connecting the resort city to the nation’s capital, according to
Armando Uribe Valle, president of the  Mexican Association of
Hotels and Motels .  Vacant Rooms  Acapulco’s 18,000 hotel rooms registered with the
association have been about 20 percent occupied in the weeks
since the storms hit, Uribe said. The dropoff already has cost
$19 million to $23 million in lost room charges, and demand
could remain below normal for as long as two months, he said.  “I don’t remember it ever being this bad in terms of
occupancy,” he said.  Three of the 14 highways nationwide that were closed by the
storms remain blocked, Communications and Transportation
Minister Gerardo Ruiz Esparza said at an event with Pena Nieto
on Oct. 1. The government is aiming to have the infrastructure
of Michoacan, a grower of produce including limes and one of the
states hardest hit by Manuel, restored within four months, Ruiz
Esparza said.  The central bank, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, cut the
key rate to 3.75 percent on Sept. 6, surprising 19 of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Split Decision  The central bank was split in its decision, with two
members voting to maintain rates and wait until the Federal
Reserve clarified its plan for $85 billion monthly stimulus
program that has fueled demand for emerging-market assets.  That was nine days before the storms hit, and the Fed on
Sept. 18 said it would refrain from paring the stimulus.  The Fed announcement strengthened the peso and increased
the chances for another rate cut, according to Credit Suisse
Group AG’s chief Mexico economist, Alonso Cervera. In a Sept. 26
report he cut his forecast for this year’s growth in gross
domestic product to 1.1 percent from 1.3 percent.  In the second quarter, the economy contracted by 0.7
percent from the prior three months, the first  quarter-over-quarter drop  since 2009. The third-quarter GDP report isn’t due
until November.  The hurricanes “have increased downside risks to GDP,”
wrote Cervera, who expects a quarter-point cut this month.  Although the destruction of crops may spur an increase in a
measure of inflation that includes farm and energy prices, “we
do not think that the potential spike in agricultural prices
will have implications on monetary policy,” Cervera said.  Insurance Estimates  The Mexican Association of Insurance Institutions estimated
last week that the hurricanes caused 75 billion pesos ($5.7
billion) in damage, of which 12 billion pesos to 15 billion
pesos will be covered by insurance.  The finance ministry said Sept. 27 that about 12.5 billion
pesos from an emergency fund have been made immediately
available for reconstruction and another 5 billion pesos from a
repavement fund will be directed toward storm recovery. The
government will also work with legislators to allocate more
spending from next year’s budget to rebuilding, the ministry
said.  CI Banco’s Jorge Gordillo says Mexico’s central bank will
keep borrowing costs unchanged because of concern the Fed will
start to unwind the stimulus at its meeting this month.  ‘Opposite Direction’  “Banxico doesn’t want to be going in the opposite
direction of the Fed,” Gordillo, CI Banco’s director of
economic analysis, said in a phone interview.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of Treasuries fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 208 basis points at 4 p.m. in New York,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years with credit-default swaps rose one basis point to 121
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a borrower fails
to adhere to its debt agreements.  The peso fell 0.5 percent to 13.1735 per dollar.  Benito Berber, a strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc.,
projects a quarter-point interest rate cut in October and says
there’s a 50 percent chance of another reduction in December.  “If you would have distributed or spread out the impact
over 12 months, it of course would not push the central bank to
cut,” Berber said in a telephone interview. “Given that it’s
concentrated in a particular time when the economy was expected
to recover after a very disappointing first half of the year, I
think it will open the door for cuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Tsang at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  