-- Goodhart Says U.S. Yields May Fall as Safety Overrides Shutdown
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-10-03T12:05:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/goodhart-says-u-s-yields-may-fall-as-safety-overrides-shutdown.html
The U.S. federal government’s partial
shutdown may increase demand for the nation’s bonds if investors
seek sanctuary from any volatility it causes in markets, said
former  Bank of England  policy maker  Charles Goodhart .  “I don’t think it’s going to affect the dollar,” Goodhart
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Guy Johnson  in
 London  today. “Yields could actually fall -- when there’s a
crisis, go for safety. I still think the U.S. bond market is the
safest market around despite this.”  U.S. lawmakers are in a standoff on spending legislation
that has led to the first partial government shutdown in 17
years and are battling over raising the federal government’s
borrowing ceiling, required by later this month. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  met with
President Barack Obama yesterday and said he and other bank
leaders discussed the potential economic consequences of a
default.  “You’ve got political risk, but no one believes the U.S.
won’t pay in the longer run,” Goodhart said. “It could easily
pay. It’s just going to effectively have to defer payments, and
that’s not such a bad thing when you know that you will get paid
in the longer run.”  He said “it isn’t that the money isn’t going to be there
at some stage; it’s simply that it’s not going to be there
immediately.”  Budget Deadlock  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders failed to
break the budget gridlock in face-to-face talks late yesterday.
The impasse has placed as many as 800,000 federal employees on
unpaid leave, and closed national parks, museums and Internal
Revenue Service call centers.  Treasuries declined today, pushing 10-year yields up from
the lowest level in seven weeks. Investors are weighing whether
the continuation of the budget deadlock will merge with the
debate over raising the nation’s $16.7 trillion debt limit by
Oct. 17.  The benchmark 10-year yield rose two basis points to 2.64
percent as of 10:58 a.m. London time, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices.  On the U.K., Goodhart said there had been “a very good run
of figures” economic figures recently.  “But we’re a long, long, long way from getting back to the
kind of the growth rates, let alone the level, that we used to
be at,” he said. “ Monetary policy  is going to remain on hold
for quite a long time.”  Goodhart, a professor at the  London School  of Economics,
was on the BOE’s Monetary Policy Committee from 1997 to 2000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  