-- Greenpeace’s Arctic 30 Charged as Gazprom Says ‘Tragedy’ Averted
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-03T15:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/greenpeace-s-arctic-30-charged-as-gazprom-says-tragedy-averted.html
Russian charged 30 people with piracy
after Greenpeace activists tried to board an Arctic oil platform
as  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  said the protest threatened to have “tragic”
consequences for workers under water at the time.  All 28 activists as well as a photographer and
videographer, who were detained last month, face as long as 15
years in prison if convicted, Greenpeace said in an e-mailed
statement today, referring to the group as the “Arctic 30.”  Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  called for tougher
penalties for illegal incursions into oil and gas facilities
yesterday, while Greenpeace campaigners occupied gasoline
stations in  Germany  operated by Gazprom, Russia’s biggest
company. On Oct. 1, activists  delayed  a Champions League soccer
game between Basel and Germany’s Schalke 04, sponsored by
Gazprom, unfurling a protest banner. Last week, demonstrations
were staged in 30 countries, including  Brazil ,  France  and the
U.S., outside Russian diplomatic missions and Gazprom offices.  “The aim of such a protest may have been to break into the
facility and destabilize its work for some time,” Gennady
Lyubin, head of Gazprom’s offshore oil division, said in an
 interview  posted on the unit’s website. “The consequences of
the Greenpeace activists’ actions could have been entirely
unpredictable and for the divers, quite tragic.”  Investigators opened a criminal case last week against the
campaigners from 18 countries for piracy and remanded them in
custody for two months in the port city of Murmansk.  Two Greenpeace protesters scaled Gazprom’s Prirazlomnaya
rig in the Pechora Sea on Sept. 18. A day later Russia’s Coast
Guard boarded the group’s Arctic Sunrise ship in international
waters and towed the vessel to Murmansk. Gazprom plans to become
the first Russian company to start producing oil in Arctic
waters at the Prirazlomnoye deposit as soon as this year.
Greenpeace activists scaled the same drilling platform in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  