-- Ibovespa Declines Second Day as Moody’s Lowers Brazil’s Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-03T20:45:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/ibovespa-futures-slip-as-moody-s-cites-low-growth-in-outlook-cut.html
The Ibovespa sank for a second day as
 PDG Realty SA Empreendimentos & Participacoes (PDGR3)  led declines in
homebuilders after Moody’s Investors Service cut  Brazil ’s rating
outlook, citing “an extended low-growth period.”  Cia. Energetica de Sao Paulo , the power utility known as
Cesp, dropped to a four-week low after Credit Suisse Group AG
cut its recommendation to the equivalent of hold. The
BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index snapped a two-day advance.  The Ibovespa retreated 1.1 percent to 52,489.86 at the
close of trading in Sao Paulo with 57 stocks lower and 15
higher. Trading volume for the index’s members was 24 percent
lower than the average in the prior five days. The real weakened
0.6 percent to 2.2057 per dollar at 5:17 p.m. local time after
Moody’s cut its outlook on Brazil’s  credit rating  to stable from
positive.  “It’s hard to disagree with Moody’s because Brazil is
indeed going through a period of weak growth,” Luis Gustavo Pereira, a strategist at Futura Corretora brokerage, said in a
phone interview from Sao Paulo. “It’s a big name confirming the
view that growth is disappointing.”  Moody’s said in a statement it forecasts Brazil’s gross
domestic product will grow at annual rates of “just over” 2
percent in 2013 and 2014. Industrial production unexpectedly
stalled in August as factories reduced output of  consumer goods ,
the national statistics agency reported yesterday.  Cesp Decline  PDG dropped 4.1 percent to 2.36 reais. The BM&FBovespa Real
Estate Index slid 1.9 percent to a three-week low. Cesp dropped
3 percent to 22.60 reais.  Oi SA slumped 13 percent to 3.85 reais as  Standard & Poor’s 
put its credit rating on review for a possible cut. The stock
advanced 5.2 percent yesterday after it agreed to merge with
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.  “Based on our preliminary assessment, it should take
longer for the combined entity to show the stronger credit
protection measures that were supporting the stable outlook on
Oi,” S&P said in a statement yesterday.  The Ibovespa entered a  bull market  Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is still down 20 percent in dollar terms this year,
compared with a decline of 4.7 percent for the MSCI  Emerging
Markets  Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  