-- Microsoft Case Against Google’s Motorola Partly Revived
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-03T20:58:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/microsoft-case-against-google-s-motorola-partly-revived.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  won’t be able to seek
a second import ban against some handsets made by  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Motorola Mobility, though it can get damages under a ruling
issued by a U.S. appeals court today.  A U.S. trade agency was wrong to say some of Motorola
Mobility’s products didn’t infringe one Microsoft patent, while
there was no violation of three others, the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in  Washington  said in an  opinion 
posted on its website today. The remaining patent expires in
December, so there won’t be enough time for a trade agency to
block the devices from being imported into the U.S.  The ruling does give Microsoft ammunition to seek cash
damages from Motorola Mobility in a U.S. district court. Both
sides declared victory, with Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft
saying it bolsters its efforts to get royalties from devices
running on Google’s Android, the world’s most popular operating
system. Motorola Mobility is one of the biggest holdouts of a
program started three years ago, Microsoft has said.  “We’re pleased the court determined Google unfairly uses
Microsoft technology and once again call on Google to join the
rest of the Android ecosystem in licensing our patents,”
Microsoft Deputy General Counsel  David Howard  said.  Motorola Mobility, which was bought by  Mountain View ,
California-based Google after the case was filed in 2010,
focused on the findings regarding the other three patents and
the court finding that Motorola Mobility designed around the one
that was infringed.  “Today’s favorable opinion confirms our position that our
products don’t infringe the Microsoft patents,” said Matt Kallman, a Motorola Mobility spokesman.  79 Percent  Had Motorola Mobility lost on any of the three other
patents, it would have faced another possible import ban. as
each has at least three years left on their terms, according to
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office’s website.  The court didn’t rule on Google’s appeal of a separate
patent in the dispute before the U.S. International Trade
Commission. In that case, the ITC issued an import ban against
some Motorola Mobility phones. Microsoft has sued  U.S. Customs 
and  Border Protection , claiming it hasn’t enforced the order.  Android had 79 percent of the global market in the second
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Microsoft’s
operating system was third with 3.6 percent, with Apple Inc.
having 13.2 percent.  The patent claim that was revived against Motorola Mobility
involves a digital interface that presents relevant choices when
a user selects a computer resource, such as a picture file.  ActiveSync Case  The Federal Circuit said the ITC erred in its
interpretation of a key term in that patent. It sent the case
back to determine the type of infringement by the main group of
Motorola Mobility products and what, if any, the appropriate
remedy would be. Other devices that designed around the patent
were cleared of infringement by the appeals court.  The three-judge panel affirmed a finding that Motorola
Mobility doesn’t infringe a patent for synchronizing data. That
patent is similar to one involved in the infringement ruling
Google is appealing, relating to syncing calendar items between
mobile devices and computers. It involves Microsoft’s ActiveSync
software.  The court also upheld the ITC’s determination that
Microsoft hadn’t established that it was using the technology
covered by the other two patents, a requirement that’s unique to
the trade agency. The panel didn’t address the ITC’s finding
those patents weren’t infringed.  Xbox Case  A Motorola Mobility case against Microsoft, seeking to
block imports of the Xbox video-gaming system, failed at the ITC
and is on appeal.  In connection with that case, Microsoft has accused
Motorola Mobility of demanding unreasonable fees on fundamental
technology used in many electronics. Microsoft won a trial last
week on its claims that Motorola Mobility breached obligations
to license its standard-essential patents on fair terms.  The case that was ruled on is Microsoft Corp. v. ITC,
12-1445, while the pending case is Motorola Mobility LLC v. ITC,
12-1535, both U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain Mobile
Devices, Associated Software and Components Thereof, 337-744,
U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 