-- Life After Sony Leads Idei to Back $82,000 Handmade Cars
-- B y   J a s o n   C l e n f i e l d   a n d   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2013-10-04T03:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/life-after-sony-leads-idei-to-back-82-000-handmade-sports-cars.html
Nobuyuki Idei once embodied Japan’s
corporate establishment, the leader of technology giant  Sony
Corp. (6758)  Now at 75, he’s aiming to reinvent himself as a cross
between a Silicon Valley venture capitalist and Hollywood mogul.  The former Sony chief executive officer describes himself
as the “executive producer” behind a long list of projects,
including a venture fund, a design consultancy and a salon for
entrepreneurs. They’re all designed to boost startups in Japan,
a country the  World Bank  ranks behind Ghana and Tanzania in ease
of starting a business.  “We want to transform Japanese corporations and Japanese
society, because after Sony and Honda, no big companies have
been born except retailers,” said Idei, seated in front of a
wall of windows at the offices of his  Quantum Leaps Corp.  in
central  Tokyo . “In  Japan , the concept of patient risk money
doesn’t exist.”  In a wide-ranging interview, Idei touched on everything
from the difficulty Japanese entrepreneurs have in finding
investors to Nikolai Kondratiev’s obscure theories on technology
cycles. He also said he had no regrets about his much-criticized
stewardship of one of Japan’s most iconic companies.  “I don’t think I made any mistakes,” Idei said. “From
the beginning I was just a company employee at Sony. I never
dreamed that I would be the CEO of the Sony Corporation, but
becoming a CEO is like riding a roller coaster. You have ups and
downs, negative press is inevitable.”  20 Startups  Sony’s  shares  peaked at 16,300 yen in March 2000, about
four months before Idei took over as Sony’s  chairman  and CEO. By
the time he stepped down in June 2005 shares traded at about
3,900 yen. They are at 2,017 yen today.  Idei’s office sits several blocks from the Roppongi
nightlife district and is cluttered with black leather sofas and
chairs. A triptych behind his desk shows the Manhattan skyline;
the sound of birds chirping wafts in from outside.  Idei retains the mane of swept-back hair that was his
trademark at Sony. Dressed in a blue and white-striped oxford
shirt and blue slacks, he moves lightly across the office to tug
papers from one of the many piles and then launches into an
explanation of life after Sony.  Quantum Leaps  Quantum Leaps, founded in 2006, has grown into a 10-person
firm aimed at helping Japan’s entrepreneurs. Idei reeled off a
list of about 20 startups to which he’s lent his time, and
sometimes his money. His latest project -- which he compared
with a movie produced by the “Idei studio” -- is a venture
capital fund that he is planning to finance by soliciting
corporate sponsors.  Among the startups he’s backed are  Dreamforest Corp. , a
maker of smartphone accessories that can help you finetune your
golf swing; and  Green Lord Motors Co. , a maker of hand-crafted
electric sport cars he said might one day rival  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  The Kyoto-based start-up, in its fourth year of business,
took orders for its first 36 cars this summer. They sell for
about 8 million yen ($82,000).  Focusing on startups is quite a switch for a man who was at
the helm of a sprawling global conglomerate with more than
150,000 workers. The new tact reflects hard-learned lessons
about how corporate bureaucracy stifles innovation, he said.  Digital Transition  “I worked for Sony for many years and tried to transform
it, but for a big company with something like $90 billion sales
it’s really difficult to foster something with sales of $100
million within the group,” he said. “It’s just too big.”  During his tenure, Sony fell behind in the transition to
flat panel televisions and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPod stole the market
for personal music players away from the company that invented
the Walkman. Apple followed that up with the iPhone, which
helped make it the most valuable company in the world.  “Managing a company is a marathon race with no end,” said
Idei. “I was in charge for nearly 10 years and I had two
primary duties: one to sow seeds for the future; the other was
to manage today.”  To get Sony ready for the future, Idei said he built the
Playstation business and started a mobile phone venture now
bearing fruit.  Innovation Lab  Idei’s latest project is World Innovation Lab, a venture
fund started in the last few months. The goal is to use his
Rolodex to tap about 10 of Japan’s biggest companies for a few
hundred million dollars. Fund-raising should be completed by the
end of December, Idei said, declining to name who he’d
approached because “we’re in a critical stage now.”  “Big companies in Japan have everything -- money, people,
intellectual property -- but they’re too big to make small,
unique things happen,” he said. “So the idea of WIL is to try
to attract investment from big corporations and carve out
venture businesses.”  A lifetime spent climbing the corporate ladder makes Idei
an unlikely savior for entrepreneurs, who need mentors with
hands-on experience building businesses from nothing, according
to Greg Tarr, managing partner at venture fund CrossPacific
Capital in  Palo Alto .  Scar Tissue  “The big question is: what qualifies a salary man to
actually be advising the few good entrepreneurs that are
there?” Tarr said in a phone interview. “The way we do things
in Silicon Valley is we want to work with people who have been
in that battle zone going from zero to $10 million in revenue
and have scar tissue.”  Japan remains a tough place to start a major business,
though there are the rare exceptions such as Masayoshi Son’s
 SoftBank Corp. (9984) , which has become the second largest company on
the Nikkei 225 Stock average by market value since its founding
in 1981.  “There are a lot of risk-takers, but they have to be
endorsed by money,” Idei said.  With most Japanese venture capital firms run by banks loath
to take on risk, start-up funding was about $1.2 billion in the
12 months through March 2012, according to the most recent
figures from Tokyo-based researcher Venture Enterprise Center.
The U.S. market was $27 billion in 2012, data from National
Venture Capital Association shows.  The  World Bank   ranks  Japan 114th of 185 countries in terms
of the ease entrepreneurs have in starting businesses. The place
with the fewest obstacles to getting off the ground is  New
Zealand . The U.S. ranks 13th.  “In Silicon Valley there is a kind of eco system starting
with Stanford and Sequoia,” said Idei, referring to  Stanford
University  and the venture firm  Sequoia Capital . “They help
each other. That environment doesn’t exist here in Japan.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Clenfield in Tokyo at 
 jclenfield@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in 東京 at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  