-- Lilly Challenged to Hit Sales Goal Announces Buyback
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m   a n d   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2013-10-03T20:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/lilly-says-2014-sales-goal-challenging-sets-buyback.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , saying that meeting
its sale target will be a challenge, plans to repurchase $5
billion in shares and introduce new diabetes drugs to help
navigate past four years of patent losses.  Less-than-expected profit in  emerging markets  and a decline
in the yen have slowed growth across the pharmaceutical
industry. That may make it more difficult for Lilly to meet a
reaffirmed goal of at least $20 billion in revenue through 2014,
the Indianapolis-based company said in a statement today.  The new products and buybacks are part of Lilly’s strategy
to return to growth after next year.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the biggest
U.S. drugmaker, is splitting its businesses to offset its patent
losses, while Merck & Co. earlier this week increased job cuts
and refocused its research program.  “I am confident in our outlook to return to a period of
growth and expanding margins,” Lilly Chief Financial Officer
Derica Rice said in the statement.  Lilly reiterated goals of at least $3 billion in net income
and $4 billion in operating cash flow through next year.  The company filed U.S. and European regulatory submissions
for two diabetes treatments -- empagliflozin and dulaglutide --
and a European submission for a new insulin glargine product.  Cancer Drugs  Lilly also is seeking approval for ramucirumab to treat
advanced gastric cancer. Necitumumab, a lung-cancer medicine,
performed well in a trial and the company may file for
regulatory approval as early as next year, according to the
statement.  Investors will keep a close eye on the pipeline, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with International Strategy & Investment
Group LLC in New York, in a note today.  “Will Lilly hit this guidance even if the pipeline
fails?” Schoenebaum said was the question on investors’ minds.
“We would like to understand if there if a ’Plan B’ exists.”  Lilly met with investors today in Indianapolis. The
company’s  shares  fell 3.4 percent to $48.80 at the close in New
York, the biggest single-day decline since June 20.  “Market factors, including the devaluation of the yen and
slower market growth in key emerging market countries, have
moderated the company’s near-term revenue growth expectations,”
Lilly said in the statement. “These headwinds will make it
challenging for the company to meet the minimum revenue goal of
$20 billion in 2014.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  