-- Immigrants’ Boat Capsizes Near Lampedusa Killing at Least 93
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-10-03T16:38:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/immigrants-boat-capsizes-near-lampedusa-killing-at-least-62.html
A boat carrying immigrants capsized
near the Italian island of Lampedusa, south of Sicily, killing
at least 93 people, Italian Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino
Alfano  said.  A fire broke out on the boat, which had about 500 people on
board, including women and children, before it capsized,
according to the Interior Ministry  website . At least 250 people
are still missing. Several bodies have been found in the
capzised ship, which is now 40 meters underwater, Alfano told
reporters in Lampedusa. His comments were broadcast by
Rainews24.  Alfano flew to the island today to oversee the search-and-rescue operations. He said the issue of migrants involves both
 Italy  and the European Union, adding that he spoke to European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  today. Italian television
showed dozens of corpses being carried away in body bags and
coast guard ships continuing to patrol the area in search of the
missing.  “I commend the swift action taken by the Italian Coast
Guard to save lives,” UN High Commissioner for Refugees Antonio Guterres said in an e-mailed statement. “At the same time, I am
dismayed at the rising global phenomenon of migrants and people
fleeing conflict or persecution and perishing at sea.”  The wooden boat left the Libyan port of Misrata two days
ago, Alfano said. The immigrants are believed to be mainly from
 Eritrea , the  United Nations ’ refugee agency said in the
statement.  Wave of Migrants  Prime Minister Enrico Letta said in a twitter post today
that the accident is an “enormous tragedy.” In a separate e-mailed statement he announced a day of mourning for the victims
tomorrow.  Located between Malta and  Tunisia  in the  Mediterranean Sea ,
Lampedusa often receives waves of immigrants seeking a backdoor
entry into  Europe . Every summer, when waters are calmer,
thousands of Africans brave the dangerous 110 kilometer (70
mile) voyage packed in small boats.  Today’s tragedy follows the Sept. 30 death of 13 immigrants
off the Sicilian coast near the town of Scicli after smugglers
allegedly forced them to jump into rough waters.  “The word ’shame’ springs to mind,” Pope Francis, who
visited the island on July 8, said today in comments posted on
the Vatican website.  Transportation Minister Maurizio Lupi said Italy and the
European Union must take up the fight against human traffickers
who “take advantage of poor people’s hopes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marco Bertacche in Milan at 
 mbertacche@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Milan at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  