-- India’s 10-Year Bond Yield Drops to Lowest in Almost Two Weeks
-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 2013-10-03T12:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/india-s-10-year-bonds-gain-on-rbi-debt-buying-plan-rising-rupee.html
India ’s 10-year bonds advanced as
financial markets reopened after a public holiday amid optimism
a central bank plan to buy sovereign debt will spur demand.  The  Reserve Bank  of India will offer to purchase 100
billion rupees ($1.6 billion) of securities at an open-market
auction on Oct. 7, it said in a Sept. 30 statement. The rupee’s
11.5 percent rebound from a record low of 68.845 per dollar on
Aug. 28 is also contributing to gains, according to  Development
Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  The currency advanced 1 percent today.  “The debt-purchase announcement clearly shows the central
bank isn’t comfortable with current yield levels,” said
Debendra Kumar Dash, a fixed-income trader in Mumbai at
Development Credit. “The rupee has strengthened quite a bit of
late and that too is aiding sentiment by taming inflationary
expectations.”  The yield on the 7.16 percent sovereign bonds due May 2023
fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 8.64
percent in Mumbai today from Oct. 1, according to prices from
the central bank’s trading system. That’s the lowest level since
Sept. 20.  Government  bonds  maturing in a decade fell in each of the
last four months, the longest run since 2009, as the RBI raised
 interest rates  and curbed funding support to banks to support
the rupee. The securities will extend the slump as the RBI lifts
borrowing costs to quell inflation and the prospect of U.S.
stimulus tapering fuels fund outflows, a Bloomberg survey shows.  Cash Injections  Global investors net sold bonds worth $109 million on Oct.
1, exchange data show. They have  pulled  almost $12 billion from
Indian debt since mid-May when Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  first signaled the U.S. central bank may pare its $85
billion monthly bond-buying program that boosted demand for
emerging-market assets.  The RBI announced the bond-purchase plan after saying Sept.
25 that it will take steps as required to ensure adequate cash
supply in the financial system. The central bank is injecting
about 1.5 trillion rupees into markets each day via money-market
operations and export-credit refinance, it said in a statement.  One-year  interest-rate swaps , derivative contracts used to
guard against fluctuations in funding costs, slid five basis
points to 8.69 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  