-- India Probe on Wal-Mart Lobbying Inconclusive, Document Shows
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   A b h i j i t   R o y   C h o w d h u r y
-- 2013-10-04T01:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/india-probe-on-wal-mart-lobbying-inconclusive-document-shows.html
An investigation into allegations
that  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  lobbied Indian government officials
ended without any conclusions, according to a government
document obtained by Bloomberg.  The investigation by retired judge Mukul Mudgal was unable
to rule on the matter as it didn’t have the power to summon
information from the company, according to the document.  India ’s
cabinet deferred discussion on the report, Neelam Kapur, a
government spokesman, told reporters in  New Delhi  yesterday.  Wal-Mart has lost senior executives in recent months in
India, where it faces a separate government probe and is going
through an internal bribery investigation. The Bentonville,
Arkansas-based retailer currently operates a chain of 20
 wholesale  stores in India with billionaire Sunil Mittal’s Bharti
Enterprises Pvt.  It is “not possible for it to conclude in the absence of
any material evidence available on record till now that Wal-Mart
indulged in any lobbying bribery,” according to the cabinet
note summarizing the findings of the investigation. Lobbying is
illegal under Indian laws.  India’s cabinet in January appointed Mudgal to probe claims
that Wal-Mart broke rules as it lobbied to enter the country’s
retail market. Wal-Mart spent as much as $25 million since 2008
on discussions regarding its foreign investments, including in
the Indian retail industry, the  Press Trust of India  reported on
Dec. 9. Opposition lawmakers in parliament alleged part of the
money was spent in India.  India in September last year opened up its retail market to
allow foreign companies to own as much as 51 percent of local
ventures that sell more than one brand. Overseas firms such as
Wal-Mart had been banned from the supermarket industry until
then.  Investment Violations  “Wal-Mart is optimistic about growing our Best Price
Wholesale cash and carry business in India, as well as future
retail investment opportunities,” Wal-Mart said in a statement
Sept. 12.  Separate from the lobbying probe, an Indian government
agency is investigating allegations that Wal-Mart violated rules
governing foreign investment in the retail industry, Trade
Minister  Anand Sharma  said in December.  Wal-Mart has said it’s investigating possible violations of
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in India,  Brazil  and  China 
along with  Mexico .  In 2007, Wal-Mart formed a joint venture in India for
wholesale stores and has been building a supply chain and
logistics network in the country. Wal-Mart owns a 50 percent
stake in the wholesale venture with Bharti, which operates 20
cash and carry stores in the country, according to Wal-Mart
spokeswoman Arti Singh.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , India’s largest
mobile phone carrier, is a part of the Bharti group.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net ;
Abhijit Roy Chowdhury in New Delhi at 
 achowdhury11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  