-- India’s Ultra-Mega Solar Plant to Sell Record-Low Power
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n   a n d   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2013-10-03T06:02:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/india-s-ultra-mega-solar-plant-to-sell-record-low-power.html
India  plans to sell power at a
record-low rate from a 4-gigawatt solar photovoltaic farm that
will more than double the nation’s sun-powered capacity.  Six state-owned companies, including  Bharat Heavy
Electricals Ltd. (BHEL)  and  Power Grid Corp. (PWGR)  of India Ltd., will form a
joint venture to build the first gigawatt by the end of 2016 and
sell their output at a maximum 5,500 rupees ($89) per megawatt-hour, Tarun Kapoor, joint secretary at the Ministry of New and
Renewable Energy, said in an interview.  The price is 10 rupees cheaper than the lowest solar power
bid in India and about 32 percent below the global average, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The venture will receive a
government grant, Kapoor said in  New Delhi , without elaborating.  India, which suffers from peak-hour power shortages of as
much as 25 percent in some states, seeks to boost generation and
drive down the cost of electricity by building 100 gigawatts of
ultra-mega coal-fired plants. The solar plant will be the
nation’s first ultra-mega, clean-energy generator as policy
makers try to diversify India’s power mix and reduce a current-account deficit exacerbated by fuel imports.  The rate at which the joint venture will sell power
compares with 4,500 rupees per megawatt-hour charged by new coal
power plants, according to Bridge to India, a New Delhi-based
solar advisory.  Bharat Heavy will own 26 percent, while Rajasthan
Electronics & Instruments Ltd.’s holding will be 3 percent,
Kapoor said. The venture will seek bids for a contractor to
design and build the plant, he said. Hindustan Salts Ltd.,
another investor, will provide 18,000 acres (7,284 hectares) of
land near Sambhar Lake in Rajasthan state.  India plans to complete the farm by 2020. The remaining 3
gigawatts of capacity may be awarded through auctions to private
companies, Kapoor said.  India had 1.8 gigawatts of solar capacity as of July 31,
according to the Ministry of New and  Renewable Energy . The
biggest photovoltaic project is a 150-megawatt plant in
Maharashtra state, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net ;
Archana Chaudhary in New Delhi at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  