-- Investors Set Up Shipping Bank to Counter Funding Retreat
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-03T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/investors-form-new-shipping-bank-to-fill-financing-retreat.html
A group of Norwegian investors and
Henning Oldendorff, chairman of the largest charterer of dry-bulk vessels, are forming a shipping bank that will start next
year to fill a funding gap in the shipping industry.  Maritime & Merchant AS will be based in Oslo and offer
secured lending and syndications and will apply for a banking
license later this year, according to a presentation yesterday.
It’s seeking to start operations in the second quarter and will
raise about $300 million in equity to fund operations and
satisfy regulatory requirements on ownership, it said.  It’s seeking to fill a funding gap in the shipping industry
as tighter capital standards have squeezed financing, according
to Chief Executive Officer Halvor Sveen.  “For the huge continental banks it will probably have
consequences that shipping would not necessarily be their
priority because they have to concentrate on their core
business,” Sveen said in an interview in Oslo yesterday.  The shipping industry, now in its fifth year of crisis, has
suffered from slumping demand and overcapacity in the wake of
 Europe ’s debt crisis and from low freight rates, high fuel
prices and slumping asset values.  Commerzbank decided in 2012 to wind down its shipping
portfolio to stem the losses.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
Societe Generale SA have also exited ship finance as the
industry struggles, new banking regulation require lenders to
increase capital buffers and reduce risk.  Many Faces  Maritime & Merchant Bank is targeting small and medium-sized shipping companies that have seen funding shrink and are
perceived as riskier.  “Risk is an element with many faces,” Sveen said. “We
have seen over the past years that huge is not necessarily
correspondent with lower risk.”  Shipping rates will gradually “come back on track and then
the values will improve but it will take time,” Sveen said.
“If we get a protracted recovery of the world economy and that
industrial production will recover in the most important areas
for seaborne trade, we will have a much more balanced and better
exchange ratio in seaborne trade between the continents.”  The bank ’s largest shareholders are Henning Oldendorff,
chairman of Oldendorff Carriers GmbH, and Spencer Trading Inc.,
controlled by Norwegian investor Arne Blystad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  