-- Iran Guard Says Dead Official Wasn’t Assassinated
-- B y   Y e g a n e h   S a l e h i   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2013-10-03T12:37:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/iran-guard-says-dead-official-wasn-t-assassinated.html
Iran ’s Revolutionary Guards rejected
reports that the head of the country’s cyber warfare program had
been assassinated, saying only that it was probing the death of
an employee it didn’t identify.  “This statement denies all the news about assassinating
one of our workers after a very sudden incident happened to
him,” the Imam Hassan Mojtaba division of the Revolutionary
Guards Corps said in a statement on the Alborz website. “We are
investigating the incident and the intention of the attacker or
attackers.”  The U.K. Daily Telegraph  newspaper  reported yesterday that
cyber warfare chief Mojtaba Ahmadi was shot dead in a targeted
assassination, citing what it said was an earlier report on
Alborz. He was killed by two bullets to the heart, according to
the daily.  The Revolutionary Guards, which didn’t provide the name or
rank held by the dead man, said his body was found near Karaj, a
town northwest of Tehran, according to the statement on  Alborz .
Iran has accused Western powers of assassinating at least three
of its nuclear scientists since 2010, a charge the U.S. State
Department has denied.  “It is possible that the assassination is the outcome of
an internal dispute and didn’t come from abroad,” Israeli
Minister of Science and Technology Yaakov Perry said on Israel
Radio when asked about the incident.  Phone Call  Amid international concerns that Iran’s pursuit of nuclear
technology may enable it to build nuclear weapons, U.S.
President  Barack Obama  and his allies in  Europe  squeezed Iran’s
economy with tighter sanctions, leading to a slump in the
nation’s oil to the lowest level since 1990. Iranian President
Hassan Rouhani told the  United Nations General Assembly  last
week his nation is ready to enter talks about its atomic
activity “without delay.”  Iran says its nuclear work is for peaceful purposes.  While Rouhani rejected Obama’s offer for an informal
meeting in  New York , Obama and Rouhani spoke for 15 minutes with
the help of interpreters Sept. 27. The conversation, the first
of its kind between leaders of the two nations since 1979, was
mainly about the “nuclear issue,” Rouhani told reporters Sept.
30.  Rouhani took office in August after pledging to govern with
moderation and to seek an easing of sanctions on his country by
engaging with the West, including the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net ;
Yeganeh Salehi in Tehran at 
 yalehi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  