-- Israel May Pick Bank Head Within Two Weeks, Bennett Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   E l l i o t t   G o t k i n e
-- 2013-10-03T08:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/israel-may-pick-bank-head-within-two-weeks-bennett-says.html
Israel  may appoint a new governor for
the Bank of Israel within weeks following the withdrawal of two
candidates to replace Stanley Fischer, Minister of Economy
Naftali Bennett said.  A vacuum at the helm of the central bank “isn’t great,”
he said today in an interview with Bloomberg Television.
Fischer, former vice chairman of Citigroup Inc. and onetime
thesis adviser to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke at
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, left office in June.
Fischer’s deputy, Acting Governor Karnit Flug, is now in charge.  “We’re doing a meticulous job,” Bennett, 41, said, “and
that’s why we’re going to have a central banker within a couple
of weeks.”  Flug surprised markets on Sept. 23 with a quarter-point
reduction in the bank’s benchmark rate to 1 percent, sending the
shekel lower for the first week in three. The decision on a
successor will be taken by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in
consultation with Finance Minister Yair Lapid and must be
approved by the cabinet.  The daily Haaretz reported on Sept. 29 that Netanyahu is
looking for new candidates beyond the three currently under
consideration.  ‘Not Dramatic’  Israel can continue for several months without a central
banker and weather the embarrassment of losing Netanyahu’s first
two nominees, said Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist of DS
Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  “The credit agencies say it’s not good, but it’s not
dramatic,” he said. “We also see uncertainty in the U.S. over
Bernanke’s successor” after former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers withdrew his name.  Bennett, a frequent critic of Netanyahu though once his top
parliamentary aide, said the prime minister was right to
excoriate Iranian President Hassan Rouhani at the United Nations
this week. Netanyahu called Rouhani a “wolf in sheep’s
clothing.”  “Do we hope the diplomatic process will bring the
dismantling of  Iran ’s nuclear project, yes we hope so,” Bennett
said, adding the chances of that happening are “very low.”  Bennett, whose computer security company Cyota Inc. was
sold in 2005 for $145 million, returned from a trade mission to
 China  two days ago and heads for  India  next week. “We’re
opening up very powerfully to the East” where he seeks “to
diversify Israel’s export portfolio” beyond its biggest markets
in Europe and the U.S.  Palestinian State  After leading the main lobbying group for Jewish settlers
in the West Bank, Bennett ran for parliament as head of the
religious party, Jewish Home. His rejection of a two-state
solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict puts him out of
step with Netanyahu, who accepts the establishment of a
Palestinian state provided it’s demilitarized and Palestinians
recognize Israel as a Jewish state.  “The issue primarily is the security and sovereignty issue
which create many, many problems, which seem right now
unsolvable,” Bennett said. “Palestinians currently do govern
themselves and that’s the right way to go about it” without
recognizing their statehood.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Elliott Gotkine in Tel Aviv at 
 egotkine@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  