-- Italian Gluten-Free Foodmaker FinGelit Plans IPO to Boost Growth
-- B y   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-10-03T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/italian-gluten-free-foodmaker-fingelit-plans-ipo-to-boost-growth.html
FinGelit Srl, an Italian maker of
deep-frozen gluten-free products plans an initial public
offering on the Milan Exchange as early as next year to fund its
expansion abroad.  FinGelit may sell shares to investors and list on the
Italian Exchange’s alternative market AIM by April, Chairman
Mattia Sebastiano Malgara said in a phone interview yesterday.
AIM is Milan’s alternative platform for small and medium-sized
companies with high-growth potential. FinGelit, based in Jesi in
central  Italy , would become the first listed European gluten-free foodmaker.  FinGelit, 90-percent owned by Malgara’s 1M Srl, plans to
list up to 30 percent of its capital and will use the proceeds
“to keep growing in a fast-expanding market, also leveraging on
new products,” Malgara said. He didn’t specify whether new
shares or existing shares will be sold. The company forecast
sales will quintuple to 10 million euros ($13.6 million) in 2015
from about 1.93 million euros this year, helped by agreements
with U.K.’s  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Asda Group Ltd. and  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY) ,
Malgara said.  The gluten-free food market is expected to reach 4 billion
euros in revenue this year. The deep-frozen product segment,
which represents as much as 15 percent of that market, is
predicted to outperform, Malgara said. FinGelit, previously
known as Aemme Srl, is specialized in deep-frozen ready meals
for people with celiac disease and expanded its distribution
from pharmacies to large retailers including Groupe Auchan SA,
 Carrefour SA (CA) , Lidl and Italy’s Conad and Esselunga SpA.  FinGelit, which sells under its own brand and under brands
such as  Bofrost , also plans to enter other European markets such
as Germany and  France , taking the share of revenue abroad to
more than 50 percent next year and to 75 percent in 2016, when
sales may reach 15 million euros, Malgara said.  The company targets net income of about 518,000 euros next
year from a loss of about 39,000 euros this year. Profit will
climb to about 1.6 million euros in 2015 and 2.39 million euros
in 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  