-- Itochu Uses Paul Smith Plus Bananas to Outpace Commodity Rivals
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2013-10-03T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/itochu-uses-paul-smith-plus-bananas-to-outpace-commodity-rivals.html
When a cash register rings on sales
of a  Paul Smith  suit, a bunch of Dole bananas or a pair of  Marks
& Spencer (MKS)  pajamas, it’s money in the bank for Masahiro Okafuji.  The decision by the chief executive of  Itochu Corp. (8001)  to take
 Japan ’s third-largest trading house into  consumer goods  and
services through stakes in globally known brands is paying off.
Itochu’s 17.9 percent return on equity last year well eclipsed
the 3.3 percent at  Glencore Xstrata Plc (GLEN) , the world’s biggest
listed trading and mining company.  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , Japan’s
largest trading house, came in at 9.4 percent.  Itochu’s larger rivals at home, Mitsubishi and  Mitsui &
Co. (8031) , are better known for supplying the nation’s oil, liquefied
natural gas and other raw materials that made resource-poor
Japan an economic heavyweight. Yet it’s Okafuji’s move into
fashion and food that’s given the one-time linen reselling firm
the best returns of its competitors. And he hasn’t finished yet.  “Some say the higher priority is spending billions of
dollars on LNG projects, but I don’t agree, or at least that’s
not our only task,” Okafuji, 63, said in an interview. “In
resources, trading firms will always work under the producers.
But if it’s a consumer business, we can take the lead.”  Okafuji now has his sights set on surpassing Mitsubishi and
Mitsui in total profit, not just  margins . His tools of choice,
he said, will remain simple: providing value-added consumer
services and employees spending less time in the office. Selling
branded T-shirts will also help, he added.  ‘Big Gap’  “There’s a big gap between us and the top two because of
the resource assets they own,” said Okafuji, who still carries
the accent of his native  Osaka , Japan’s merchant capital.  “So, first we needed to beat them on food, on textiles,
and daily goods,” he said, ticking each off with his fingers in
an office on the 21st floor of  Tokyo  headquarters that overlook
the Yakult Swallows baseball team stadium. “We did that. Now,
with machinery and infrastructure we aim to earn the most of all
trading houses from non-resources. That’s for this year.”  The focus on non-resources helped Itochu unseat  Sumitomo
Corp. (8053)  as Japan’s number three trading house in 2012 by market
value and net income. In terms of  return on assets , Itochu went
even better: it beat all three of its top Japanese rivals.  Okafuji’s strategy has rewarded shareholders with a 52
percent  gain  in a year, while Mitsubishi’s is the best of the
other three traders, up 41 percent. Mitsui rose 29 percent,
Sumitomo 25 percent. Glencore Xstrata fell 1.9 percent.  William Shakespeare  Japan’s iconic trading houses stem from the finance and
industrial groups known as “ zaibatsu ” that emerged since the
1600s. They operate as global suppliers, organizers and risk-mitigators to build, maintain and expand the industrial backbone
of the world’s third-largest economy.  Sumitomo dates to the early 17th century when founder
Masatomo Sumitomo, a contemporary of  William Shakespeare ,
expanded a book and medicine shop into copper smelting,
according to the company’s  website .  The roots of the Mitsui name stretch to the 12th century
when one branch of the aristocratic Fujiwara family left the
emperor’s court at Kyoto to set up independently, according to
“The House of Mitsui,” an account of the group by Oland D.
Russell published in 1939.  The Mitsui turned to commerce in the early 1600s by brewing
sake, and later started off in money lending and trade in dry
goods, according to Russell’s account.  What Are They?  Japan’s zaibatsu groups grew to encompass trade and
manufacturing, banking and retail until the U.S. broke up some
of the companies in the post World War II occupation.  The trading houses re-formed in the late 1940s and 1950s
and once more diversified into such a wide range of businesses
they are difficult to classify. Moody’s Corp. ranks them as a
unique subset of financial services. Standard & Poor’s Financial
Services LLC  classes them  as “capital goods” companies.  That diversity reflects an agility to evolve in line with
the needs of the global economy, adding logistics, insurance,
information technology and financing roles among others over the
decades.  Last year, combined  revenue  at Japan’s seven top trading
companies was $380 billion, or near 7 percent of Japan’s gross
domestic product. The seven, which include  Marubeni Corp (8002) ,  Sojitz
Corp. (2768)  and  Toyota Tsusho Corp. (8015)  hold $57 billion in cash.  In the last decade, the houses known in Japanese as “Sogo
Shosha” boosted profits by riding the “commodity bubble,”
said Akira Kishimoto, a Tokyo-based analyst with JPMorgan
Securities Japan Co.  New Markets  Those fat margins on oil, gas, iron ore, coal and other raw
materials are now narrowing and it’s those who capture the
growth drivers of emerging Asian economies -- such as cars,
food, and machinery -- that will prosper, he said.  “In that sense, Itochu is strong outside of resources,
especially in food,” Kishimoto said. The challenge now will be
to replicate its successes overseas, he said.  Itochu bought  Dole Food Co. (DOLE) ’s Asian fruit and vegetable
business and global canned foods unit for $1.3 billion this year
after partnering with the U.S. producer in Japan for 50 years.
The Dole brand will help Itochu export Japanese food produce
while its partly-owned  FamilyMart Co. (8028)  convenience store chain
expands in  Asia  and elsewhere, Okafuji said.  For every yen Itochu invests in commodity assets in the
next two years it will spend two on non-resources, said Okafuji.  Big Returns  Itochu’s net income more than doubled to 280 billion yen
($2.9 billion) last year from 128 billion yen in the fiscal year
ended March 31, 2010, the last before Okafuji became CEO. While
net income trailed Mitsubishi’s by 22 percent last year,
Okafuji’s company has just over half the market value at 1.9
trillion yen to its rival’s 3.3 trillion yen.  Mitsubishi and Mitsui declined to comment on Itochu’s
strategy. The former said in an e-mailed response to questions
that its mid-term plan published in May estimates profits from
non-resource assets will double by 2020 from 180 billion yen
last year.  Mitsui’s mid-term goal is to increase non-resource profit
to about 30 percent of the total, the company, also based in
Tokyo, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  According to the April 2010 edition of Itochu’s internal
magazine, Okafuji made a mark soon after joining Itochu in 1974.
At the welcoming ceremony for new recruits he criticized Itochu
for poor environment policies in its forestry business.  Early Birds  The brazen remarks won the notice of then division chief
Teruo Hotta, who took him under his wing, the magazine reported
in the issue.  Okafuji said he wants to create an environment that
encourages his more than 4,200 employees to think differently.
From this month, Itochu is asking staff to swap traditional
late-night hours in the office for early starts. Work after 8
p.m., which Okafuji said often amounts to just pencil-pushing,
will be frowned on.  It’s not just about employee health, but also efficiency
and staying focused, he said. Staffers getting in before 8 a.m.
can pick up free bananas and yogurt. Dole brand, of course.  Armed with its growing  brand portfolio , Itochu expanded its
textile business by 12 percent a year in the last decade,
tripling profits.  Last year, the unit -- which owns 40 percent of London-based apparel maker  Paul Smith  Group Holdings Ltd. and all of
Bramhope Group Holdings, Marks & Spencer Group Plc’s biggest
clothing supplier -- posted a record 6.8 percent return on
assets. That compares with 1 percent at the mining business of
Mitsubishi, which together with  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  is the top
exporter of coal for steelmakers.  Myanmar Question  Itochu’s ROA for the whole business was 4.11 percent to
Mitsubishi’s 2.5 percent, Mitsui’s 3.18 percent and Sumitomo’s
3.09 percent last year. Glencore Xstrata had 1.05 percent.  “Sell a T-shirt with a brand name on it and you get  added
value  and it’s extra profit,” said Okafuji, adding he owns more
than 100 pairs of shoes and buys 10 jackets each season. “I
tend to wear gray and navy, so it all looks the same from the
outside.”  His standard corporate colors mask an independent streak.  “Now, everyone’s talking about Myanmar,” Okafuji said.
“And, sure, like everyone we need to grow in Myanmar, but if
everyone goes there, that’s not really such an opportunity.  ‘‘We are thinking since last year we should look at the
home market again,’’ he said. ‘‘We’re pretty small in real
estate and information technology. We need to  expand  that.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  