-- Liv-Ex Fine Wine 50 Benchmark Lagging Behind Wider Bordeaux 500
-- B y   G u y   C o l l i n s
-- 2013-10-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/liv-ex-fine-wine-50-benchmark-lagging-behind-wider-bordeaux-500.html
The Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 benchmark is
lagging the wider  Bordeaux  500 index of wines from the region so
far this year after posting its second consecutive quarterly
decline amid lack of demand for the 2012 vintage.  The Liv-ex Fine Wine 50, which tracks the 10 most recent
available vintages of the five Bordeaux first-growth wines, is a
benchmark for the London-based Liv-ex online exchange and
broader international trading in investment-grade wines while
the Bordeaux 500 tracks wines from 50 growers across the region.  The Liv-ex 50 has declined since mid-March, after price
gains in the first 10 weeks of this year and in late August lost
momentum, leaving it 2 percent up since the end of December,
according to data on Liv-ex’s Cellar Watch website. The Bordeaux
500 is up 4 percent since the start of this year, as investors
facing price declines on some top wines seek more diversity.  “The first growths always seem the biggest fallers when
it’s falling, and the biggest risers when it’s rising,”  Chris Smith , an investment manager at The Wine Investment Fund in
London, said by phone Oct. 2. “It’s the firsts that get hit.”
The fund, invested in Bordeaux, manages $50 million.  The Liv-ex 50 index has just completed its fifth monthly
drop in the past six, and its sixth quarterly decline in the
past nine. While it is still up year-to-date, an extension of
the price trend seen since mid-March risks leaving it down at
the end of 2013 for the third straight year.  Bordeaux Market  While the Liv-ex 50 tracks only wines from the top left-bank Bordeaux estates of Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, Chateau
Mouton-Rothschild,  Chateau Latour ,  Chateau Margaux  and Chateau
Haut-Brion for vintages from 2001 to 2010, the Bordeaux 500
represents a much broader basket of growers.  The Bordeaux 500 index includes the same five first growths
as those in the Fine Wine 50 Index, as well as top right-bank
growers including Petrus, Chateau Ausone, Chateau Cheval Blanc,
Le Pin and Chateau Lafleur.  It also spans second wines of the left-bank first-growths,
such as Carruades de Lafite and Pavillon Rouge, other estates
across the Medoc including Chateau Leoville-Las Cases, Chateau
Cos d’Estournel and Chateau Pontet-Canet, Saint-Emilion
producers including Chateau Pavie and Chateau Angelus and
Sauternes estates including Chateau d’Yquem.  The Liv-ex Fine Wine 100, while still Bordeaux-dominated,
also tracks wines from Burgundy, the Rhone, Champagne and  Italy ,
and at the end of September was showing an advance of almost 3
percent since the end of 2012.  China Market  The broader Bordeaux market also includes wines outside of
these indexes, such as the Cru Bourgeois producers whose wines
can be bought for less than $50 a bottle, more cheaply than the
classed growths, and are seeking to build on export markets in
the U.K., U.S. and  China .  Chinese buyers are seeking “very good wines, but with
prices that are not so high,” Frederique de Lamothe, director
of the Alliance des Crus Bourgeois du Medoc, said in an
interview in London last month after returning from  Asia . “It’s
just beginning.”  The 256 wine estates listed in the 2011 classification of
the Crus Bourgeois du Medoc produced 28 million bottles of wine
from the vintage, about 30 percent of the entire production from
the Medoc region north of the city of Bordeaux, according to
data from the Alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Guy Collins in  London  at 
 guycollins@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  