-- HSBC Sees ‘Selective Opportunities’ for Asia Bond Sale Pick-Up
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s   a n d   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2013-10-03T04:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/japan-bond-risk-falls-as-australia-climbs-default-swaps-show.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  sees some
possibilities for a rebound in Asian bond sales this quarter, as
three companies sold debt yesterday, the busiest day in a week.  The U.S. Federal Reserve’s decision to maintain bond
purchases last month “provides some selective opportunities for
a pick-up in Asian issuance,” according to Andre de Silva, head
of Asia-Pacific rates in the global research team at HSBC, this
year’s largest arranger of dollar bonds for Asian borrowers.
Swire Pacific Ltd., the biggest  shareholder  of  Cathay Pacific
Airways Ltd. (293) , led three offerings yesterday, the most since
Sept. 25, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Asian companies slowed bond sales in the U.S. currency to
$21.3 billion last quarter, 43 percent less than the previous
three-month period, after Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled
the central bank would consider trimming record stimulus. The
 Federal Open Market Committee  left debt purchases unchanged when
it met last month, prompting dollar notes from Asian issuers to
 rally  the most since July 2012, JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes
show.  “More stable currencies and more fundamentally sound
countries, such as  Korea , Singapore,  Taiwan  and Hong Kong, are
likely to be more receptive to issuance,” HSBC’s de Silva said.  Swire Pacific  Hong Kong-listed Swire Pacific raised $700 million from a
sale of 10-year bonds yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Korea Western Power Co. sold $500 million of notes due
2018, while First Gen Corp., the Philippines’ second-largest
generator of conventional electricity, issued $250 million of
2023 securities, the data show.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Asia Ltd. remains in
the market with a Basel III-compliant offering of 10-year
subordinated bonds that can be called after five years, a person
familiar with the matter said today. The lender is considering
pricing the debt with a spread in the mid-300 basis-point area,
the person said, asking not to be identified because the terms
aren’t set.  The Fed is now on track to taper stimulus in December, with
a “modest” $10 billion reduction in quantitative easing
likely, HSBC’s de Silva said. The U.S. budget deadlock and
government shutdown won’t impact this timeline, provided it’s
resolved in days rather than weeks, he said.  Australia Risk  The cost of insuring company bonds in Australia against
non-payment climbed today, according to traders of credit-default swaps.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index rose 1.5 basis points to
122 as of 10:13 a.m. in Sydney, according to  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  prices. The measure is rebounding from a four-month low of
103 on Sept. 19, according to data from CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  The Markit iTraxx  Japan  index meanwhile retreated 2 basis
points to 92.5 basis points as of 9:13 a.m. in  Tokyo , according
to Citigroup Inc. prices. The gauge is set for its lowest level
since Sept. 26, CMA data show.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was unchanged at 152 basis points as of
8:13 a.m. in Hong Kong,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  prices show.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
 credit quality . A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in  Hong Kong  at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net 
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net  