-- Japan’s Housing Market to Weather First Sales-Tax Rise Since ’97
-- B y   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2013-10-03T00:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/japan-s-housing-market-to-weather-first-sales-tax-rise-since-97.html
Japan ’s housing market will weather a
consumption levy increase because of a tax break on home
purchases, according to Mizuho Securities Co. and Morgan Stanley
MUFG Securities Co.  Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Oct. 1 the levy will rise to
8 percent in April from 5 percent now, marking the first
increase since 1997. In January, the government doubled the
homebuyers’ tax exemptions to as much as 4 million yen ($41,000)
per transaction, compared with 1.8 million yen in tax breaks
back in 1997, according to Mizuho Research Institute Ltd.  While expectations of the higher sales tax has spurred
last-minute buying among potential homebuyers, concerns that
demand will dry up after the increase has prompted Deutsche Bank
AG to cut the rating on the country’s real estate industry for
the first time since 2010.  “The housing tax exemptions are bigger than the actual
sales tax increase,” said  Takashi Ishizawa , chief analyst for
real estate research at Mizuho Securities in Tokyo. “So we
expect a drop in housing demand to only last for a few months.”  To cushion the impact of a tax increase, Abe also unveiled
a 5 trillion yen stimulus plan to rein in the world’s biggest
debt burden without negating efforts to end deflation.  Housing Starts  Monthly housing starts rose for a 12th straight month in
August, capping the longest rising streak since February 1994, a
land ministry data showed on Sept. 30. The last time when Japan
announced an increase in the levy in June 1996, housing starts
fell for two years, according to the ministry.  Yoji Otani, a Tokyo-based real estate analyst at Deutsche
Bank, expects Japanese real estate shares to tumble as much as
30 percent over the next six months after the government
confirmed the plans to raise the sales tax.  Otani, who had correctly forecast developers’ share moves
for past two years by recommending investors to overweight these
holdings since 2010, lowered his recommendation on the industry
to market weight on Sept. 20.  Developers are still trying to embrace an expected increase
in demand prior to the consumption tax increase. The number of
apartments offered for sale in  Tokyo  and surrounding areas
gained 53 percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest
same-month increase since 1996, according to the Real Estate
Economic Research Institute.  The Topix real estate index has risen 53 percent his year,
making it the fifth-best  performer  among the 33 industry groups
that make up the benchmark. The property index has more than
doubled since the start of 2010, compared with the 29 percent
advance by the Topix.  “Better macro sentiment is raising consumer interest in
homebuying,” Tomoyoshi Omuro, an analyst at Morgan Stanley
MUFG, said in a report published on Sept. 30. “With added
government measures we do not expect as severe a backlash as the
market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  