-- Kasowitz Opens Entertainment Practice: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-03T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/kasowitz-opens-entertainment-practice-business-of-law.html
Two NBCUniversal Media LLC lawyers
joined Kasowitz, Benson, Torres & Friedman LLP to open an
entertainment litigation practice in the  Los Angeles  office.  Former NBCUniversal attorneys John Berlinski, who was
senior vice president and head of West Coast television
litigation, and Mansi Shah, who was senior litigation counsel,
joined the firm as partners.  Berlinski will be chairman of the firm’s entertainment
practice group, which will primarily represent TV and film
entertainers and talent agencies, the firm said in a statement.
The two new lawyers will represent talent in the audit process
and resolutions process, including in litigation.  “They bring impressive industry backgrounds, which
perfectly complement the powerful litigation practice we’ve
established throughout the country,”  Marc Kasowitz , the firm’s
founding and managing partner, said of the new partners in a
statement. “Talent can now retain industry insiders for their
most significant disputes and bring to bear the type of
resources previously reserved for the big Hollywood Studios.”  While at NBCUniversal, Berlinski managed all of the
company’s West Coast television litigation, as well as pre-litigation disputes involving profit participation, copyright,
idea theft and right to privacy, among other matters. He also
led a team of lawyers who advised the company on negotiation of
profit participation contracts, the issuance of accounting
statements, audits and the resolution of audit claims, according
to Kasowitz.  Shah handled entertainment disputes while at NBCUniversal,
including acting as the lead lawyer for the team responsible for
the company’s television profit participation litigation as well
as legal issues concerning profit participation audits.  Kasowitz Benson has more than 375 lawyers at offices in  New
York , Washington, Silicon Valley, Los Angeles, Houston, Atlanta,
San Francisco, Miami and Newark, New Jersey.  Littler Mendelson Joins with Columbian and Costa Rican Firms  Employment  law firm  Littler Mendelson PC will combine with
Colombian law firm Godoy Cordoba Abogados and Costa Rican law
firm BDS Asesores under the name “Littler Global,” through a
Swiss Verein, which is an association of firms that limit
liability and don’t share a common profit pool.  “As our clients increasingly view labor and employment law
as an international, rather than a strictly local challenge,
Littler continues to grow to meet their needs,” Jeremy Roth,
Littler’s co-managing director, said in a statement. “This is a
mutually beneficial move for all three practices as we are
teaming up to form a single-source solution for the global
employer community.”  The combination gives Littler 150 Spanish-speaking
attorneys across its 57 locations, including its existing
offices in  Venezuela , which opened in 2010 and Mexico, which
opened in 2012. Littler has more than 980 lawyers.  Godoy Cordoba Abogados, which has 27 attorneys, is based in
Bogota and has an office in Barranquilla. It is the largest
labor, employment and immigration law firm in  Colombia  and is
led by partners Carlos Hernan Godoy Fajardo, Andres Godoy
Cordoba and Luis Alejandro Cordoba Escamilla, Littler said.  “Littler’s outstanding reputation, combined with its
extensive resources, will enable us to further develop our
practice and increase our international profile beyond
Colombia’s borders,” Andres Godoy, the firm’s managing partner,
said in the Littler statement.  BDS Asesores has 14 attorneys at offices in Costa Rica, El
Salvador and  Panama . The firm, led by Marco Durante Calvo and
partners Francisco Salas Chaves and Alejandro Trejos Gomez, has
specialized practices in public and private labor law,
litigation and payroll management.  U.S. Law Firm Mergers Increase 41 Percent in 2013  Law firm mergers are booming, up 41 percent for the first
three quarters of the year from the same period last year,
according to legal consulting firm Altman Weil’s MergerLine.  Nineteen law firm mergers and acquisitions were announced
in the U.S. in the third quarter, putting the year’s total at
58. The largest deal combined  Kansas City , Missouri-based
Stinson Morrison Hecker and Minneapolis-based Leonard Street &
Deinard, resulting in a 500-lawyer firm.  “A large combination of similarly sized firms -- what we
call a ‘merger of equals’ -- is relatively rare,” Altman Weil
principal Tom Clay said in a statement. “There have been fewer
than a dozen in the last six years, and the majority have been
between Midwestern law firms.”  Another large combination announced in the third quarter
was between Lewis & Roca, a 175-lawyer firm based in Phoenix,
and Denver-based Rothgerber Johnson & Lyons, with 75 lawyers.  Ballard Spahr LLP and Schiff Hardin LLP both acquired small
New York City firms in July while Blank Rome LLP took over a
Houston maritime boutique in August.  “When demand is flat, acquiring a small firm and its
clients is probably the easiest way to get new business,” Clay
said. “There is virtually no risk for the acquirer.”  Moves  London Real Estate Partner Joins Mayer Brown  Mayer Brown LLP said that Patricia Jones, formerly of SJ
Berwin LLP, joined its real estate group in London.  Jones has advised both domestic and international clients
from the real estate and retail sectors on complex structured
development, investment and joint ventures, the firm said. Most
recently, she acted for British Land on the redevelopment of the
Shoreditch Estate in East London, according to Mayer Brown.  “At a time of volatility in the real estate legal market
we are strengthening our team with the very best and are
increasing our numbers to reflect the requirements of both our
domestic and overseas clients,” Martin Wright, head of European
real estate at the firm, said in a statement.  Mayer Brown has lawyers in the Americas,  Asia  and Europe.  K&L Gates Adds Partners in Perth, Frankfurt  K&L Gates LLP added Alex Eastwood as a partner in the
energy, infrastructure and resources practice in Perth,
 Australia . Previously, Eastwood was general counsel of  Gryphon
Minerals Ltd. (GRY)   The Frankfurt office of K&L Gates also added a partner.
Klaus Banke, who was previously at  Cleary Gottlieb Steen &
Hamilton LLP , joins the corporate/M&A practice.  Eastwood has almost 20 years of experience advising
companies predominantly in the energy and resources, mining
services and technology sectors, according to the firm. At
Gryphon, he advised on matters related to the permitting and
project funding of the Banfora Gold Project in  Burkina Faso ,
West Africa.  Banke advises international and German companies on M&A
transactions and joint ventures, as well as on general corporate
law, the firm said in a statement. He focuses primarily on
cross-border transactions, particularly French-German matters,
and in the energy sector, the firm said.  K&L Gates has 48 offices in the U.S., Asia, Australia,
Europe, the  Middle East  and  South America   Perkins Coie Adds Bankruptcy and Restructuring Partner  Perkins Coie  LLP said that John D. Penn joined the Dallas
office as a partner in the bankruptcy and restructuring
practice. He was most recently a partner with Haynes & Boone LLP
in Fort Worth.  He will also spend time as needed in the firm’s New York
office working on Chapter 11 bankruptcy filings there.  Perkins Coie has more than 900 lawyers in 19 offices in the
U.S. and Asia.  Hausfeld Hires Freshfields Cartel and Disputes Lawyer  Hausfeld & Co LLP added to its European practice by hiring
Boris Bronfentrinker, who joined the firm as a partner from
Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, where he was a senior lawyer
in the cartel defense and commercial disputes practice.  Bronfentrinker has spent the past seven years defending
cartelists. He has experience related to private enforcement in
the English  High Court  and the Competition Appeal Tribunal, as
well as general competition law and general commercial
litigation, the firm said.  Hausfeld has 12 lawyers at its London office.  Fees  Patent Suits Targeted as U.S. High Court Takes Fee Cases  The U.S.  Supreme Court  will hear two appeals that would
make it easier for targets of patent suits to collect attorneys’
fees, agreeing to consider steps that some companies say would
deter groundless litigation.  The court said Oct. 1 it will hear arguments from Octane
Fitness LLC, which is seeking $1.3 million in fees after
defeating a patent suit over exercise equipment. The justices
also accepted an appeal by Highmark Inc., a Pennsylvania insurer
asking for $5 million from a company that unsuccessfully sued
for patent infringement.  Companies targeted by patent suits, including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
say fee awards are needed to stem a costly trend of frivolous
litigation. A White House report said more than 100,000
companies were threatened last year with infringement suits by
businesses whose sole mission is to extract royalty revenue.
Those entities, dubbed “patent trolls” by critics, filed 19
percent of all patent lawsuits from 2007 to 2011,  according  to
the Government Accountability Office.  “With the average patent case costing millions of dollars
to litigate, the threat of paying the prevailing party’s
attorney’s fees is a powerful deterrent to frivolous claims and
litigation mischief,” the Blue Cross and Blue Shield
Association, a Washington-based trade group, argued in court
papers urging the high court to intervene in the Highmark case.  The U.S. Patent Act says fees can be awarded “in
exceptional cases.” Octane contends the federal appeals court
that handles patent cases, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the
Federal Circuit in Washington, has developed a “rigid and
virtually insurmountable test” for implementing that statutory
language.  The Supreme Court will hear arguments and rule by early
July in the two cases.  The cases are Octane Fitness v. Icon Health & Fitness, 12-1184, and Highmark v. Allcare Health Management Systems, 12-1163.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  