-- Kasparov Wins European Court Ruling for Arrest at Moscow Protest
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-03T12:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/kasparov-wins-european-court-ruling-for-arrest-at-moscow-protest.html
  Garry Kasparov , the former chess
champion turned critic of President  Vladimir Putin , won a ruling
by the  European Court  of  Human Rights  declaring his rights were
violated by his arrest at a 2007 protest in Moscow.  The court in Strasbourg,  France , ordered the Russian
government to pay Kasparov and two Russians who were detained as
much as 10,000 euros ($13,600) each and awarded a lesser amount
to five other plaintiffs, according to an e-mailed statement
today. The ruling can be appealed.  The arrest of the eight men before an authorized
demonstration in the Russian capital was “disproportionate to
the aim of maintaining public order,” the court said. Their
rights were further breached when they were convicted and fined
for having violated the rules on protests, it said.  Putin has come under increasing criticism by the U.S. and
European countries for a crackdown on the opposition and non-government organizations since he extended his 13-year-rule in
presidential elections last year. Kasparov, 50, earlier this
year fled  Russia , saying he feared he wouldn’t be allowed to
travel freely if he stayed in the country.  Another leading critic of Putin, Alexey Navalny, is
appealing a five-year prison sentence on charges that he
defrauded a state timber company. He denies any wrongdoing and
says the case is payback for helping lead rallies against Putin
in 2011, the biggest protests since the president came to power.  Russia has indicted 12 people for participating in mass
rioting at a demonstration at Moscow’s Bolotnaya Square on May
6, 2012, the eve of Putin’s inauguration.  Amnesty International 
declared three of them prisoners of conscience, saying they were
detained for exercising their constitutional right to freedom of
expression and assembly.  “It is extremely likely that other people in the Bolotnaya
case are also prisoners of conscience although their actions are
currently under consideration by the courts,” the group said
yesterday on its website.  Putin, 60, a former colonel in the Soviet-era KGB,
reclaimed the presidency last year from now Prime Minister
 Dmitry Medvedev , who’d stood in for him for four years. As
president, Medvedev pushed to lower the state’s presence in the
economy and combat corruption.  Putin last month said he doesn’t rule out a run for re-election when his third term ends in 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  