-- Spurning Iran Would Be Diplomatic Malpractice, Kerry Says
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-10-03T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/kerry-says-spurning-iran-would-be-diplomatic-malpractice.html
Failing to test whether Iran is
sincere in offering to negotiate a deal on its nuclear program
would be “diplomatic malpractice,” U.S. Secretary of State
 John Kerry  said.  Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, speaking at a joint news
conference with Kerry in  Tokyo  yesterday, also defended the U.S.
willingness to talk to the new Iranian government, saying that
“engagement is not appeasement, it is not surrender.”  The comments from the top U.S. diplomat and the Pentagon
chief were the first by senior Obama administration officials
since Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned the world
not to trust Iran in a speech to the  United Nations General
Assembly  this week.  Western diplomats expressed optimism last week at the UN
after agreeing to resume stalled international nuclear talks
with Iran on Oct. 15-16 in Geneva. Iran’s new President Hassan Rouhani and President  Barack Obama  had a 15-minute telephone
conversation at the Iranian’s behest -- the highest-level
encounter between the two governments since Iran’s 1979 Islamic
revolution.  At the UN, Rouhani disavowed any interest in nuclear
weapons and said Iran wants to swiftly calm international
concerns over its nuclear program, while retaining the right to
enrich uranium for peaceful purposes.  ‘Short Period’  As the U.S. and its five partners -- the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany ,  China  and  Russia  -- go into this month’s talks, Kerry
said yesterday that “the test we face now, over these next
weeks and months -- not a long period of time, mind you, over a
short period of time -- is to determine” whether Iran is ready
to back up its pledge to come clean with the international
community.  Israel ’s government and some of its supporters in
 Washington  have expressed skepticism about Iran’s sincerity,
suggesting its leaders are playing for time to develop a
“break-out” capacity enabling the Persian Gulf state to race
to make a weapon before the world can react. They want
international economic sanctions against Iran maintained.  Netanyahu told the UN on Oct. 1 that Rouhani’s “soothing
rhetoric” is contradicted by his country’s “savage record” of
sponsoring global terror attacks and the expansion of its
disputed nuclear program, despite UN resolutions ordering a halt
to enrichment.  “When it comes to  Iran’s nuclear program , here’s my
advice: Distrust, dismantle, verify,” Netanyahu said.  Israel’s Security  Kerry and Hagel said yesterday that the U.S. won’t make any
deal that sacrifices Israel’s security, which they called
paramount to the U.S., nor will Obama abandon the threat of
force to stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon should talks
fail.  “Nothing with respect to the security of Israel will be
allowed to come between the relationship between Israel and the
 United States ,” Kerry said at the news conference with Hagel,
following the signing of an updated U.S.-Japan security accord
with their Japanese counterparts.  “No deal is better than a bad deal,” Kerry said, saying
the U.S. won’t sign onto anything less than a verifiable accord
that puts  Iran ’s nuclear program under international safeguards.  Even so, Kerry called it “diplomatic malpractice of the
worst order not to examine” every opportunity “before you ask
people to take military action.”  “Aren’t we wiser to pursue engagement?” Hagel asked. Both
cabinet members are Vietnam War veterans.  Economic Sanctions  Over the last two years, the U.S. and the European Union
have imposed dozens of penalties restricting Iran’s banking
transactions, oil exports, shipping, trade and investment,
driving Iranian oil output to the lowest level since 1990.  Iran, the second-biggest producer among the Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries as recently as June 2012, just
before U.S. and EU oil sanctions took effect, fell to sixth
place last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil
companies , producers and analysts. A quarter of Iranians aged 15
to 29 were jobless in the Iranian year ended in March, official
figures show. The economic gloom became a central issue in
Iran’s June election.  West Texas Intermediate crude fell for a third day this
week on concern that a protracted U.S. government shutdown will
slow economic growth and reduce fuel demand. WTI for November
delivery slid 79 cents, or 0.8 percent, to settle at $103.31 a
barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  Shutdown’s Effect  Enforcement of the Iran sanctions is being hampered by the
partial shutdown of the U.S. government amid disputes between
Obama and Republicans in Congress, Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs Wendy Sherman said yesterday.  Sherman told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that
furloughs of personnel at the Treasury Department’s Office of
Foreign Assets Control and in the intelligence community are
having a significant impact on sanctions enforcement.  “So, quite frankly, where Iran is concerned, the sooner
the shutdown is over the better we will be able to do the job
you are asking us to do and that we want to do,” she said.  With lawmakers moving to impose more sanctions on Iran,
Sherman urged senators to delay such measures until the next
round of talks.  “We do believe it would be helpful for you all to at least
allow this meeting to happen on the 15th and 16th of October
before moving forward to consider those new sanctions,” said
Sherman, who is the lead U.S. negotiator in the Iran talks.  She said that would let her tell the Iranians “that if you
do not come on the 15th and 16th with that substantive plan that
is real and verifiable, our Congress will take action.”  When Sherman called for time to test the new Iranian
overtures, she encountered skepticism from lawmakers about
whether Iran has changed its ways. Senator  Marco Rubio , a
Florida Republican, referred to it as “a country run by evil
liars.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Tokyo at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  