-- N.Z.’s Meridian to Yield Strong Dividends After IPO, Edison Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2013-10-03T03:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/n-z-s-meridian-to-yield-strong-dividends-after-ipo-edison-says.html
Meridian Energy Ltd. , which is
selling shares in  New Zealand ’s largest initial public offering,
faces years of strong  cash flow  that will underpin its
dividends, according to Edison Investment Research.  Weak electricity demand means New Zealand generators have
abandoned plans to build new plant, and they are accumulating
cash that will be reflected in high dividends, Auckland-based
analyst Bruce McKay said in an interview. Meridian forecasts a
2014-15 gross dividend yield of 9.2 percent based on a possible
IPO price of NZ$1.60 a share.  “They’re not spending money chasing resource consents and
planning how they are going to build the next power station,”
McKay said. “They’ve got costs under control. They have been
conservatively managed in terms of their balance sheet. They
have a lot of free cash.”  New Zealand’s government is seeking about NZ$2 billion
($1.7 billion) from the sale of as much as 49 percent of
Meridian, the nation’s largest power company. The sale, which
closes for institutional bids on Oct. 23, is part of a
government asset-sales program forecast to raise about NZ$5
billion.  Meridian shares are expected to be priced in a range of
NZ$1.50 to NZ$1.80 apiece ahead of the Oct. 29 stock-exchange
listing, the government said in the offer document. Individual
investors will pay no more than NZ$1.60.  The shares are worth NZ$1.70 to NZ$1.86, Edison said in an
e-mailed research note, released today as part of an initiative
by NZX Ltd., operator of the New Zealand stock exchange, to
encourage investor knowledge and interest. The valuation
reflects the outlook for cash generation, and incorporates
Meridian’s “conservative” forecasts, Edison said.  The main risk faced by investors is that a switch to a
 Labour Party  led government at the 2014 general election may
change industry regulation, Edison said. The main opposition
party earlier this year said it would establish a central
planning agency to buy all power in the wholesale market, and
would require generators to split their retailing units to force
down prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  