-- Netanyahu Finds Opposing Iran Charm Hard in Distracted U.S.
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-10-04T13:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/netanyahu-finds-opposing-iran-charm-hard-sell-in-distracted-u-s-.html
Benjamin Netanyahu  came to the U.S.
to challenge what he called a “charm offensive” by Iran. The
Israeli prime minister hasn’t found it easy getting his
counterattack to resonate in a country preoccupied by domestic
concerns and wary of foreign involvement.  Netanyahu used his speech at the  United Nations  on Oct. 1
to urge the world not to take Iran’s new President Hassan Rouhani at face value. He didn’t capture the media attention
Rouhani enjoyed for promising swift progress on nuclear talks
from the same platform a week earlier. Nor did Netanyahu match
the impact of his own UN address last year, when he brandished a
drawing of a burning fuse to illustrate what he said was Iran’s
progress toward nuclear weapons.  Rouhani’s overtures led to a Sept. 27 phone call with
President  Barack Obama , the highest-level U.S.-Iranian encounter
since the Islamic revolution of 1979. Netanyahu’s message to the
world body -- that Rouhani is a “wolf in sheep’s clothing” who
can’t be trusted -- jarred with the renewed optimism.  “Americans don’t like a dismissive approach, since the
stakes with Iran are so large for everyone,” and they think
that the “prospect of a diplomatic opening should be
explored,” said  David Makovsky , a senior fellow at the
Washington Institute for Near East Policy.  In his UN speech and a television interview, “Netanyahu
himself said he did not oppose diplomacy,” Makovsky said. “But
the issue is one of emphasis, since the skepticism was so
dominant a part of his speech.”  U.S. Preoccupied  The Israeli premier’s turn to address the weeklong UN
gathering in  New York  came on the day the U.S. federal
government entered a partial shutdown, dominating local news
coverage after a political standoff stalled action on a budget.
Rouhani’s General Assembly address a week earlier wasn’t as
overshadowed by U.S. domestic politics.  Reaction to Netanyahu’s UN address was mixed. Some of the
sharpest criticism came in a  New York Times (NYT)  editorial that said
the premier’s “aggressive speech” made him seem “eager for a
fight” rather than a diplomatic solution.  Netanyahu found a more receptive audience at a meeting with
the leaders of American Jewish organizations in New York on Oct.
2, where he drew applause as he asked them to help in his
campaign to convince the broader public that  Iran  isn’t to be
trusted. Even among that crowd, though, his tone drew some
dissent.  ‘Overplaying Hand’  “He’s been overplaying his hand, when he should come off
as more open to diplomacy” said Seymour Reich, a former
chairman of the Conference of Presidents of Major American
Jewish Organizations. “While he’s right to be skeptical of
Iran, Netanyahu’s approach may not resonate with an American
public that, after the Syrian escapade, has indicated a desire
not to get involved in foreign intervention and military
enterprises.”  Abraham Foxman, national director of the Anti-Defamation
League, said after the Netanyahu meeting that the Israeli leader
was taking the right approach by insisting that Iran must prove
itself.  “While the American public is preoccupied right now by the
 budget crisis , I think they are smart enough not to be fooled by
Iran’s charm offensive,” Foxman said.  A CBS/New York Times  poll  on American views of foreign-policy issues published last week contained ammunition for both
arguments. Only 22 percent of Americans expect relations with
Iran to improve in the next few years, with 41 percent saying
they would stay the same and 32 percent that they would worsen.  Public Support  On  Syria , the survey found evidence Americans are wary of
involvement. Obama backed away from military strikes on Syria,
to punish the government for an alleged chemical attack, and
instead embraced a Russian plan for removing the chemical
weapons. More than 80 percent of respondents in the CBS poll
backed that plan, even though two-thirds said they didn’t
believe Syria would hand over all its illicit arms.  The easing of tensions over Syria and the prospect of a
thaw with Iran helped push oil to a three-month low this week.  Netanyahu expanded his message in a series of media
appearances during the trip, including his first with the  BBC ’s
Persian-language service. He told  Charlie Rose , in an interview
broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television, that the best
approach to  Iran’s nuclear program  is “distrust, dismantle and
verify.”  Iran says the program is for peaceful purposes and it has a
right to enrich uranium, while Netanyahu has argued that all
enrichment should be halted.  Persuading Obama  Netanyahu told broadcaster NPR, in an interview aired
today, that he’d consider meeting Rouhani if offered an
opportunity, and would ask: “Are you prepared to dismantle your
program completely? Because you can’t stay with the
enrichment.”  Netanyahu’s private discussions with Obama at the White
House on Sept. 30 will turn out to be more consequential than
his public diplomacy blitz, according to Makovsky.  This week, the Israeli premier has gone “further than ever
before in saying explicitly that a partial nuclear deal is a bad
deal,” Makovsky said. “The success of the Netanyahu mission to
the U.S. is not just based on public attitudes, but to what
extent has Netanyahu succeeded in persuading Obama to go for a
broader deal.”  The Israeli premier said after returning from the U.S.
today that he planned to meet with European leaders next week as
he pushes for continued vigilance over Iran.  Netanyahu told Rose that he believed he and Obama could
agree on a common approach to Iran. His UN speech spelled out
what may happen if they don’t. Netanyahu told the world body
that  Israel  is ready to “stand alone” if it believes Iran is
close to attaining nuclear weapons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  