-- New York Businesses Win Ruling on Card Swipe-Fee Ban
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2013-10-03T18:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/new-york-businesses-win-ruling-on-card-swipe-fee-ban.html
A New York law banning merchants from
surcharging customers to make up for credit-card swipe fees was
halted by a federal judge who ruled the statute is
unconstitutional.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  today ordered
the state not to enforce the ban during a legal challenge filed
by several small businesses.  Businesses including a Vestal, New York, hair salon, a
Brooklyn ice cream parlor and Lower Manhattan martial arts
academy alleged in a lawsuit filed in June that the law violated
free speech rights by penalizing them for adding surcharges
while at the same time allowing them to provide discounts to
customers paying with cash or debit cards.  “Alice in Wonderland has nothing on section 518 of the New
York General Business Law,” Rakoff wrote. “This virtually
incomprehensible distinction between what a vendor can and
cannot tell its customers offends the First Amendment and
renders section 518 unconstitutional.”  Rakoff said the law violated the First Amendment because it
prevented merchants from calling the difference between prices
charged to cash customers and credit-card users a “surcharge.”
The term “surcharge” communicates to customers that credit
cards are costly for merchants, the businesses argued.  Under Review  “We are reviewing the decision and considering our next
step,” Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman, said in an e-mail.  Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  are awaiting a federal
judge’s decision on whether to approve a multibillion-dollar
antitrust settlement with U.S. merchants over interchange fees
that would lift prohibitions on surcharges.  Critics of the settlement have argued that at least 10
states, including New York, prohibit surcharging, limiting the
usefulness of that part of the accord.  Merchants generally pay higher interchange, or swipe, fees
when customers make purchases with credit cards than they do
when buyers use debit cards. A provision of the 2010 Dodd-Frank
law limits debit swipe fees, so some merchants want to use
surcharging to deter customers from using credit cards.  Deepak Gupta, a lawyer for the New York businesses that
challenged the law, said that merchants are preparing similar
constitutional challenges in other states that prohibit
surcharging.  “The other states’ laws are indistinguishable from new
York,” Gupta, with Washington-based Gupta Beck Pllc, said in an
interview. “They were enacted at the same time, had the same
purpose and often use the same words.”  The case is Expressions Hair Design v. Schneiderman, 1:13-cv-03775, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  