-- Norway Government Lauds Frontline Central Bank Krone Attack
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-03T14:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/norway-government-praises-frontline-krone-attack-by-central-bank.html
Norwegian Finance MinisterSigbjoern Johnsen said the central bank has fulfilled its mission after
taming a krone surge that was threatening exporters.  After emerging as a haven during the  European debt crisis ,
the krone is now among the worst performing major currencies. It
has lost 6 percent this year against a basket of nine other
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes.  “What’s happening now really proves that the role of
monetary policy should be in the frontline” in dealing with
effects on the economy, Johnsen, who will resign this month
after his three-party coalition lost elections last month, said
in an interview today in Oslo. “Monetary policy has fulfilled
its mandate.”  Norges Bank left its main rate at 1.5 percent last month
and signaled faster tightening after efforts to fight back the
krone’s appreciation paid off. It has kept rates unchanged for
more than a year while signaling as recently as June that it was
prepared to ease to prevent krone strength from undermining
inflation targeting. In August, underlying inflation surged to
2.5 percent, hitting the target for the first time in four
years.  Stable Expectations  The krone jumped 0.6 percent to 8.1147 per euro as of 1:50
p.m. in Oslo, making it the biggest gainer among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “ Monetary policy  is the frontline defense in stabilization
policies,” Johnsen said in a follow up e-mailed statement. “We
have a flexible inflation target, and Norges Bank also puts
weight on production and employment. Monetary policy should also
contribute to stable expectations on the krone exchange rate.”  Johnsen said the recent krone moves serve as a reminder
that it’s a “small currency” and there’s a tendency to “have
a traffic jam at the entrance in the harbor.”  The krone has lost about 11 percent against the euro this
year, paring some of its gains since 2009 and on course for its
worst year since 2008. The currency slid after a recovery in the
euro area diminished the allure of assets from AAA rated Norway.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  