-- Norway to Buy Carbon Emission Credits From Clean-Energy Projects
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-10-03T15:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/norway-to-buy-carbon-emission-credits-from-clean-energy-projects.html
Norway  plans to buy carbon credits
from emissions-cutting projects in developing and developed
countries that may have to stop operating due to the low prices
for the offsets they generate.  The nation may purchase as many as 30 million United
Nations Certified Emission Reductions and Emission Reduction
Units for the period from 2013 through 2020, the ministry of
finance said in a statement. The credits have fallen as much as
99 percent since 2008, prices on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange
in London show.  Investors in greenhouse-gas-reduction projects earn carbon
credits that they can sell to more than 12,000 factories and
power stations in Europe as well as 37 developed countries that
have carbon-emission caps under the  Kyoto Protocol . Norway will
buy “from stranded UN-approved projects facing a risk of
discontinuation due to the low CER prices,” the ministry said.  “Norway will buy eligible credits, which means verified
UN-approved emission reductions that can be used for compliance
with Norway’s obligations under the Kyoto Protocol and any
relevant successors,” Kjetil Lund, a state secretary at the
 finance ministry , said in an e-mailed response to questions.
“Both CERs and ERUs from stranded projects are applicable.”  Benchmark CERs were trading at 60 euro cents a metric ton
on ICE Futures Europe in London today. The contracts traded as
high as $23.38 a ton in July 2008.  The Kyoto Protocol’s first commitment period ended last
year and the second period, which runs from 2013 through 2020,
has yet to be ratified by most nations.  The Nordic Environment Finance Corp., the regional
environmental bank, will act as purchasing agent for the nation,
Lund said.  Calls to Nefco in Helsinki for comment weren’t immediately
answered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 Avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  