-- Obama Challenges Boehner to Hold Vote on Funding to End Shutdown
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2013-10-03T15:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/obama-challenges-boehner-to-hold-vote-on-funding-to-end-shutdown.html
President  Barack Obama  urged House
Speaker John Boehner to hold a vote on funding federal
operations without strings attached, saying the Republican
leader’s refusal to do so is the only thing standing in the way
of reopening of the U.S. government.  “Call a vote. Put it on the floor. And let every
individual member of Congress make up their own minds.” Obama
said in a speech today in the Washington suburbs, as the partial
closing entered its third day.  He also said that if Republicans hold up raising the
federal debt ceiling to press their demands it would cause
“dramatically worse” consequences for the  U.S. economy .  Talks last night between congressional leaders and the
president failed to break the fiscal stalemate, with both sides
repeating the positions they’ve held for weeks. Obama and his
Democratic allies say Republicans must end the shutdown and
raise the country’s  debt  ceiling before they will enter talks on
broader budget issues. Republicans, pushed by their anti-tax Tea
Party wing, want to use the fiscal deadlines to delay or defund
Obama’s health care law, the signature domestic policy
achievement of his presidency.  “They will not negotiate,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an
 Ohio Republican , said after the hour-long meeting at the White
House.  Obama said today that if a measure to keep the federal
government operating was put to a vote it would pass both
chambers of Congress with bipartisan support.  Party Factions  “The only thing that is keeping the government shut
down,” Obama said today, speaking at a construction company in
Rockville,  Maryland , “is that Speaker John Boehner won’t even
let the bill get to a yes or no vote because he doesn’t want to
anger the extremists in his party.”  The partial shutdown put about 800,000 federal employees
out of work and shuttered many government functions, including
infant nutrition aid, national parks and Internal Revenue
Service audits. Other services, such as air-traffic control and
Social Security benefits, were operating.  A one-week partial shutdown would probably shave 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg, with the costs
accelerating if the closing persists.  The effects of failing to raise the $16.7 trillion debt
ceiling would be more consequential. The government will run out
of borrowing authority Oct. 17, according to the Treasury
Department.  Market Reaction  U.S. stocks fell for a second day as the deadlock in
Washington combined with data showing a decline in a service
industries index and an increase in jobless claims weighed on
markets.  The  Standard & Poor’s (SPX)  500 Index fell 0.8 percent to
1,680.35 at 11:07 a.m. in  New York , below its lowest close in
almost a month.  Markets should be “concerned” about the possibility of
default, Obama said on CNBC yesterday after meeting with chief
executives of financial-services companies including  Lloyd Blankfein  of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Brian Moynihan of  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  