-- Obama Asia Focus Hurt by Politics of Shutdown to Mideast
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-10-03T18:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/obama-asia-focus-hurt-by-politics-of-shutdown-to-mideast.html
President  Barack Obama  is trying to
keep his foreign policy pivot from becoming a revolving door.  Civil war in  Syria , a military coup in Egypt and hints of a
rapprochement with Iran are diverting the president’s attention
from Asia, where he sees the future, to the Middle East, where
he risks being consumed by the past.  The government shutdown dominating Washington politics is
further imperiling the president’s signature overseas
initiative. Obama yesterday curtailed a trip planned for Asia
next week because of the political impasse at home.  “What’s happening in Syria, Iran and the like take up an
enormous amount of oxygen,” said  Kurt Campbell , an architect of
Obama’s Asia policy before leaving the State Department this
year. “There are deeply consequential things playing out there
right now that demand a high degree of American engagement. At
the same time, there are also pressures domestically.”  Those twin forces put at risk a presidential policy
designed to enhance U.S. standing in a region adjusting to
 China ’s continued economic and military emergence. Asia will
witness almost half of global economic growth outside the U.S.
in the next five years,  according to  the White House. And
ripples from the rise of an increasingly assertive China are
unsettling U.S. allies from  Japan  to the  Philippines .  More Obstacles  Middle Eastern tumult isn’t the only threat to Obama’s Asia
focus. As he prepares to depart on Oct. 5 for an Asian summit,
the prospect of almost $1 trillion in Pentagon spending cuts
over the next decade shadows his plans to raise the U.S.
military profile in the region. Demands from 60 senators for
action on “foreign currency manipulation” also complicate a
proposed 12-nation trade zone linking some 40 percent of the
world economy.  The distractions have sparked doubts about whether the so-called pivot to Asia is all talk and little action. After Obama
devoted almost his entire Sept. 24 United Nations address to
 Iran’s nuclear program  and the prospects for Arab-Israeli peace,
those concerns deepened.  “Is the pivot to Asia in the second-term Obama
administration sustainable with all the attention to the Middle
East?” Indonesian Ambassador to the U.S. Dino Djalal asked at a
Sept. 25 conference in Washington. “Our relations are still
below our potential.”  ‘A Priority’  Administration officials say the U.S. can focus on more
than one region. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said Sept. 27 the
Asian rebalancing is “a priority,” adding, “the entire
administration is committed to this initiative.”  The Pentagon has vowed to protect the planned redeployment
of naval and air forces to Asian missions, even as it tightens
its belt elsewhere.  Amid speculation that the president ultimately will cancel
what’s left of his Asian trip,  Jay Carney , the White House press
secretary, said today that Obama still hoped to attend planned
summits in Indonesia and Brunei.  “These are the kinds of meetings where representation by
the  United States  at the highest level achieves good things for
us in terms of our national security and in terms of our role in
the global economy,” he told reporters.  Clinton’s Term  The diplomatic shift dates to November 2011 when then-Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in Foreign Policy
magazine that, after a decade of war in  Iraq  and Afghanistan,
the U.S. stood at “ a pivot point ” and must devote a
“substantially increased investment” to Asia.  It was the rare Obama initiative that enjoyed Republican
acceptance. House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California Republican, said in July, “I
don’t think there’s any disagreement on the goodness of
rebalancing to Asia.”  The economic case is no secret. While the U.S. was
preoccupied with the Mideast, Asia -- led by China -- has
flowered. Since the 2003 U.S. invasion of Iraq, Asian equities
have outperformed stocks in the U.S. and Europe. The MSCI Asia
APEX 50  index  has risen more than 200 percent since then, double
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index gain and more than six times the
increase in the Euro Stoxx 50 index. The MSCI Asia index is up 1
percent this year.  ‘Juggling Act’  Making a success of the policy will also require the U.S.
to get its European allies to bear more of the defense burden,
better focus its efforts in the Persian Gulf and invest at home
to remain competitive with China, said Sean Kay, director of the
international studies program at Ohio Wesleyan University and a
former State Department adviser.  “The pivot is the right strategy, but it’s going to need
all these other elements to be in place,” he said. “It’s a
real serious juggling act.”  Early commentary interpreted the pivot as mainly a military
response to China’s rise, including a near-doubling of Chinese
economic  output  from 2005 to 2012. U.S. officials then began
emphasizing the economic and diplomatic aspects of the shift and
dropped the term “pivot” in favor of “rebalancing” to avoid
suggestions that the Middle East would be ignored.  “We’re working to strengthen every single part of our
relationship, including our economic links directly between our
citizens,” Kerry said at a Sept. 27 meeting of foreign
ministers of the  Association of Southeast Asian Nations .  Trade Accord  Where once the notion of rotating 2,000 U.S. Marines
through the Australian port of Darwin drew center stage, now
U.S. officials emphasize the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Talks
began in March 2010 with the U.S. and six other countries:
Australia, Brunei, Chile,  New Zealand , Peru and Singapore. Since
then, the process has broadened to include Japan, Mexico,
Canada, Vietnam and Malaysia.  “TPP is really the center of the pivot, not just the
economic part,” said Matthew Goodman, former director for
international economics on Obama’s National Security Council
staff. “In terms of something that’s new, something that has
the potential to really lock us in to that region, there’s
really nothing more important.”  The State Department expects  1 billion  additional middle-class consumers in Asia over the next 20 years.  Many U.S. corporations already have seen their Asian
businesses boom, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  last year tripled to more than 21 percent the
share of its $156.5 billion revenue that it got from Asia.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  drew more than 23 percent of its $28 billion in
revenue from the Asia-Pacific region, up from 16 percent five
years earlier. Johnson & Johnson got almost 20 percent of its
$70 billion from the region, up from 14 percent. And 3M Co.’s
Asia business accounted for more than 30 percent of its $30
billion in revenue.  U.S. Exports  Yet U.S. exports to the 14-nation Pacific Rim region, which
includes China, accounted for a smaller share of total shipments
in 2012 than a decade earlier, according to the U.S. Census
Bureau. The U.S. last year sent 24.5 percent of its $1.54
trillion in exports to the region compared with 25.8 percent of
$693 billion in 2002.  An eventual deal would be welcomed by companies such as
Procter & Gamble,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc., which
are seeking improved protection for intellectual property.  Companies such as New Balance Athletic Shoe Inc. object to
lowering U.S. tariffs on imported footwear, saying they fear
“potentially catastrophic effects on the domestic footwear
industry,” according to spokesman Matt LeBretton. A flood of
low-priced Vietnamese imports could cost the jobs of many of the
company’s 1,350 American shoemakers, he said.  ‘Currency Manipulation’  Negotiators hope to make further progress on the margins of
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation meeting in Bali, which
Obama is scheduled to attend next week, along with Brunei. U.S.
Trade Representative  Michael Froman  says the aim is to wrap up a
deal by year’s end.  One obstacle arose on Sept. 24 when 60 senators wrote the
administration demanding that it target “foreign currency
manipulation.” In June, 230 House members issued a similar
call, meaning majorities of both bodies have urged such a move.  Congressional ire over foreign currency values typically
centers on the Chinese  yuan . China isn’t part of the TPP talks,
so the focus is on U.S. ally Japan.  The lawmakers’ letters come amid a year-long decline in the
value of the Japanese yen, which is down about 20 percent over
that period. That makes Japanese exports more attractive to U.S.
customers, raising the ire of U.S. automakers.  Still, Obama aims to demonstrate the U.S. emphasis on Asia
by traveling to Indonesia and Brunei. Campbell, who left the
State Department in February, said the diplomatic shift will
outlast the impact of both events in the Middle East and budget
battles at home.  “The fundamental focus of strategic engagement is shifting
to Asia, but that will not happen overnight,” he said. “I’ve
been to enough meetings with the president to know that’s his
determination and intention.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David L. Lynch at   dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  