-- Lockhart Says Shutdown Vindicates Fed Decision Not to Taper
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   D u a n e   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-03T18:28:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/lockhart-says-shutdown-vindicates-fed-decision-not-to-taper.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President Dennis Lockhart said the central bank’s September
decision not to pare the pace of its bond buying was “wise”
given the partial government shutdown that ensued.  “We avoided a potentially very awkward situation of
reducing stimulus just on the eve of what now has developed,”
Lockhart, who doesn’t vote on monetary policy this year, said to
reporters today after introductory remarks at a conference in
Atlanta. The decision to delay a taper in bond purchases “now
is vindicated by the developments,” which resulted from a
political impasse in  Washington  over the  federal budget .  The policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee last month
unexpectedly refrained from reducing the pace of its $85 billion
in monthly bond buying, saying it wants to see more evidence of
lasting improvement in the labor market. While  joblessness  fell
to 7.3 percent in August from 7.4 percent in July, the decline
was attributable to discouraged Americans giving up on finding
work.  The U.S. Department of Labor won’t issue the September
payrolls report tomorrow as initially scheduled because of the
partial government shutdown now in its third day. The release
includes the unemployment rate and data on payroll employment.  “Less data is not helpful in gauging where the economy is
and where it’s going,” Lockhart said. “So that would tend to
make me somewhat more cautious.”  The U.S. Commerce Department also has suspended the release
of economic data provided by its agencies. Reports on
construction spending, factory orders, retail sales and gross
domestic product are all issued by agencies within the
department.  October Meeting  The Atlanta Fed chief said that, while he wouldn’t want to
“rule out” tapering at policy makers’ meeting later this
month, “this current circumstance is even compounding the
murkiness of the situation that I perceived a few weeks ago.”  A meeting between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders yesterday failed to break the budget logjam that has led
to the first shutdown since 1996.  If the government shutdown lingers into late October “we
will still be looking at a very ambiguous situation,” Lockhart
said. “It would be very hard to make a decision under those
circumstances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  