-- OGX Hammerhead Oil Reserves Estimate Cut in DeGolyer Report
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-03T17:30:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/ogx-hammerhead-oil-reserves-estimate-cut-in-degolyer-report-1-.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ’s
venture with Petroliam Nasional Bhd. holds less than 40 percent
of the oil reserves that the explorer run by former billionaire
 Eike Batista  announced last year, a DeGolyer & MacNaughton
report shows.  The Tubarao Martelo field off  Rio de Janeiro ’s coast may
hold as much as 108.5 million barrels of oil, including proven,
probable and possible reserves, or 3P, the oil-reserves auditing
company said in a report posted on OGX’s website today. That
compares with 285 million recoverable barrels announced by OGX
in April 2012, when it declared the field commercial, without
explaining how the estimate was obtained at the time.  Proved reserves, or 1P, were estimated to be zero because
of the “uneconomic nature of the project,” DeGolyer said.  OGX is preparing to start production at Tubarao Martelo, or
Hammerhead Shark, after an oil platform operated by its sister
company  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3)  arrived this week. The cut in estimated
reserves comes two days after OGX missed a $45 million payment
on foreign bonds amid negotiations with creditors.  “You need money for those things,” said Eric Conrads, who
manages about $750 million of Latin American stocks at ING
Investment Management. “They have to go through a debt
restructuring.”  Petronas, as the Malaysian state-run partner is known, in
May agreed to pay as much as $850 million for 40 percent of
Tubarao Martelo, with part of the payment hinging on output. The
first payment is pending Brazilian regulatory approval.  Drilling Tests  The field’s proven and probable reserves, or 2P, amount to
87.9 million barrels of oil equivalent, DeGolyer said. The
report follows additional drilling tests carried out after OGX
announced the previous estimates.  The “Lack of 1P reserves is concerning” and “intriguing
for a field that should start up in a couple of months,” Morgan
Stanley analyst Bruno Montanari said in a note to clients.  OGX was unchanged from yesterday at 22 centavos at 1:10
p.m. in  Sao Paulo . It’s down 95 percent this year.  Revenue from the field in the coming two decades, based on
proven, probable and possible reserves and price and cost
premises supplied by OGX could reach $11.2 billion, DeGolyer
said. Output next year may reach 6.2 million barrels of oil,
DeGolyer said.  On July 1, OGX said it would scrap development of three
offshore fields because they weren’t commercially viable and
that it may shut down its Tubarao Azul field next year. That
would make Tubarao Martelo its only oil producing field.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  