-- Oi Buys Time for Turnaround With Portugal Telecom Deal
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-03T18:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/oi-buys-time-for-turnaround-with-portugal-telecom-deal.html
Oi SA’s merger with  Portugal  Telecom
SGPS SA is likely to bolster  Brazil ’s largest landline phone
carrier as it battles better-equipped rivals in the world’s
fifth-biggest wireless market. The shares fell on concern it
won’t be enough.  The transaction provides a cushion for Rio de Janeiro-based
Oi, which had already  lost  almost half its value in the past
year, by shoring up its balance sheet, reducing expenses and
giving it more buying power with suppliers, Corporativo GBM SAB
said. The merged company will compete with  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,
 America Movil  SAB and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , and may play a role in
future mergers, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said.  Still, assuming he closes the deal as planned in the first
half of next year, Oi Chief Executive Officer  Zeinal Bava  will
have a company with a lower-quality network and fewer wireless
subscribers than his competitors and higher leverage, with net
debt at 3.3 times earnings. To succeed, he’s counting on better
cash flow while not ruling out other mergers, he said.  “This buys them time and gives Oi more capacity to do
better and allow the company to invest,” said Andres Medina-Mora, an analyst at GBM. “It is in a better position to
compete.”  Oi fell 11 percent to 3.94 reais at 3:24 p.m. in Sao Paulo,
erasing its gains from yesterday, when the transaction was
announced. Portugal Telecom dropped 3.8 percent to 3.48 euros in
Lisbon, retreating after surging 6.5 percent yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s  said it’s reviewing the transaction and
may downgrade Oi’s debt rating to junk. Moody’s Investors
Service reiterated that it may do the same.  Rio Headquarters  The transaction cements a relationship that began three
years ago, when Lisbon-based Portugal Telecom said it would
acquire a 22.4 percent stake in Oi for $4.8 billion. Both
companies now hold minority stakes in each other. The combined
carrier, which will include Portugal Telecom’s assets in Europe
and  Africa , will be based in Rio de Janeiro, with Bava as CEO.  Brazil Communications Minister  Paulo Bernardo  said the
transaction was unlikely to meet resistance from regulators.
Sergio Monteiro, Portugal’s secretary of state for public works,
transport and communications, said the government won’t
interfere with the deal.  By keeping the new company’s headquarters in Brazil, the
government can continue to support what Barclays Plc described
in 2010 as the “national champion” in the phone business. Oi’s
controlling ownership group includes Brazil’s Jereissati and
Andrade Gutierrez families, along with development bank BNDES
and pension funds for state-run companies such as  Banco do
Brasil SA. (BBAS3)   ‘Better Position’  Oi is making its move while rival  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) 
awaits word of its future. Tim, Brazil’s second-biggest wireless
carrier, is owned by Telecom Italia, which may have to sell the
asset to cut debt, analysts at Barclays Plc and BTIG LLC have
said.  Brazil’s government wouldn’t allow a single competitor to
buy all of Tim, Bernardo said last month. As an alternative, the
company could be broken up into parts, allowing its assets to be
divvied up by rivals -- including Oi, if it has the money to do
so.  “This puts Oi in a better position to bid for a stake in
Tim,” said Andre Baggio, an analyst at JPMorgan, in a note to
clients yesterday. He said he kept a neutral rating on Oi
because the new stock issuance will dilute the shares.  After the transaction, the new company will trade under a
single class of shares, eliminating Oi’s multitiered ownership
structure. That simplified approach gives the company more
options, Bava said today.  Opening Options  “As we are today it is impossible for us to actually play
any kind of consolidation game, so I think this is the first
step that we need to put in place,” he said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” The union “will certainly
open up options for the company for the future.”  With more than 100 million mobile-phone subscribers across
three continents, the Oi-Portugal Telecom combination -- known
for now as CorpCo -- would still lag far behind  America Movil (AMXL) ,
which now has 262 million wireless users and Telefonica, with
249 million. It wouldn’t even catch up with Telecom Italia,
which has  123 million  across  Italy , Brazil and  Argentina .  That means CorpCo remains at a disadvantage to the bigger
companies in bartering for lower prices from suppliers of
smartphones, network routers and other bulk purchases needed to
operate a telecommunications network.  More Leveraged  CorpCo’s net-debt-to-earnings ratio, at 3.3 times, would be
an improvement from Oi’s 3.7 times. It would still be more
burdened by debt  compared  with Telecom Italia’s 2.8 times,
Telefonica’s 2.6 times and America Movil’s 1.7 times, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  By eliminating overlaps in technology, personnel, network
investments and other expenses, CorpCo will save 5.5 billion
reais ($2.5 billion), Bava said yesterday.  “This better  cash flow  should lower debt,” said Thomas
Chang, an analyst at UM Investimentos, which manages about 150
million reais. “But in the short term, this question of debt
will still worry investors.”  CorpCo’s shares will be listed on Brazil’s Novo Mercado,
which has a stricter set of corporate-governance regulations
than the broader market. By moving to a single share class,
instead of Oi’s voting and non-voting shares,the company becomes
more beholden to all shareholders instead of a select group.  “We don’t like Oi the way it is today because of reasons
of governance,” said Flavio Clemente, an analyst at Jardim
Botanico Investimentos, which manages 850 million reais. The
transaction is prompting the group to take another look, he
said.  Bava and his team should now start focusing on operations,
having addressed the ownership structure, said Susana Salaru, an
analyst at Banco Itau BBA, in a research note yesterday.  “We see this as a potential turning point in Oi’s
investment story,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in  Sao Paulo  at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  