-- Oi CEO Says Simpler Structure After Merger Opens Up Options
-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s   a n d   F r a n c i n e   L a c q u a
-- 2013-10-03T11:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/oi-ceo-says-simpler-structure-after-merger-opens-up-options-1-.html
Oi SA’s merger with Portugal Telecom
SGPS SA will result in simpler ownership structure for Brazil’s
biggest phone company, giving it more options, Chief Executive
Officer  Zeinal Bava  said.  “As we are today it is impossible for us to actually play
any kind of consolidation game, so I think this is the first
step that we need to put in place,” Bava said in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” The union “will
certainly open up options for the company for the future.”  Oi, based in Rio de Janeiro, agreed to merge with Portugal
Telecom yesterday to create a trans-Atlantic carrier whose 100
million customers make it more competitive against  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
and  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  The merger will result in one class of
stock, as opposed to a current combination of classes and a
convoluted ownership structure through several holding firms.  Brazil’s wireless market may be facing a shakeup, with
Telefonica pushing toward a potential sale of one of the
carriers,  Telecom Italia (TIT) ’s  Tim Participacoes SA. (TIMP3)  Telefonica owns
a minority stake in Telecom Italia and is increasing its
influence in the company, agreeing last month to gradually buy
out its co-investors in a holding company.  The deal with Portugal Telecom leaves Oi in a better
position to bid for a stake in Tim, Andre Baggio, an analyst at
JPMorgan, said in a note to clients yesterday.  Africa Assets  The combined Oi-Portugal Telecom, with almost $17 billion
in annual sales, would be positioned to take advantage of the
growth in Latin America as Europe’s phone market shrinks. The
merger will generate cost savings and additional  revenue  valued
at about 1.8 billion euros ($2.4 billion), helping the new
company compete in the world’s fifth-biggest wireless market.  “It’s absolutely critical that we grow,” Bava said. “We
will become a growth company” with the merger.  Bava, a former Portugal Telecom CEO, became the head of Oi
in June while continuing to run the Portuguese carrier’s
domestic operations. He will lead the enlarged company.  Portugal Telecom’s African assets won’t be for sale after
the carriers merge even as the focus will be on the Brazilian
and Portuguese operations, Bava said.  “Africa is an interesting footprint, it actually generates
cash flow, businesses are profitable, but from a management
standpoint clearly our focus is going to be  Brazil  and
Portugal,” Bava said.  Moody’s Investors Service placed Portugal Telecom’s credit
ratings on review for upgrade today, saying the combination
would mitigate its “exposure to domestic Portuguese sovereign
and macroeconomic risks” and it “would become part of a larger
group with greater financial strength.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net ;
Francine Lacqua in London at 
 flacqua@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  