-- Oi Investors Question Plan to Take Debt From Holding Company
-- B y   C h r i s t i a n a   S c i a u d o n e
-- 2013-10-04T20:51:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/oi-slumps-as-investors-question-plan-to-assume-debt-from-owners.html
Oi SA investors are questioning the
phone company’s plan to take on debt of 3.2 billion reais ($1.5
billion) from its controlling owners as part of a merger with
Portugal Telecom SGPS SA.  Oi,  Brazil ’s largest landline phone company,  fell  5.5
percent to 3.64 reais at the close in Sao Paulo. That brought
the stock’s drop for the week to 21 percent, the biggest such
decline since March of 2012.  While the deal will help Oi cut costs, HSBC Holdings Plc
said yesterday the details of the transaction are less appealing
to shareholders. By assuming debt that used to belong to Oi’s
owners, the new company will be only slightly less indebted than
its predecessors, said Richard Dineen, an analyst at HSBC in New
York.  “We believe that the level of disclosure for what is a
complex, multistage international transaction has been poor,”
Dineen said in a research note, citing the debt deal as an
example. “The opacity of certain elements of the transaction
and the associated potential for valuation discrepancies is a
significant risk for investors.” He has the equivalent of a
sell rating on the shares.  Standard & Poor’s said it’s reviewing the transaction and
may  downgrade  Oi to junk. Moody’s Investors Service reiterated
that it may do the same.  In one of the steps to complete the merger, Lisbon-based
Portugal Telecom plans to acquire 4.5 billion reais in
convertible debt from AG Telecom and LF Tel, which own a portion
of TmarPart, the controlling shareholder of Oi. The proceeds
“essentially” will be used to pay off TmarPart’s 3.2 billion
reais in debt, Dineen said. Oi, meanwhile, will be selling new
shares to raise 8 billion reais before the new corporation
swallows up both companies and all of their assets.  ‘Not Cheap’  “The acquisition multiple for PT does not look so cheap
once we include R$4.5bn debt that PT is assuming to recap Oi’s
parent companies,” said Andrew Campbell, an analyst for Credit
Suisse Group AG, in a research note. He has a neutral rating on
the shares.  By assuming the parent companies’ debt, Rio de Janeiro-based Oi can eliminate a multitiered ownership structure, moving
to a system in the new company where every shareholder has an
equal vote. That approach will give the new company more
flexibility if it wants to do other deals in the future, Oi
Chief Executive Officer Zeinal Bava said yesterday on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  AG Telecom is part of the  Andrade Gutierrez Group , while LF
Tel is owned by  Jeressaiti Group .  More Pleased  While Oi bonds retreated yesterday, they put only a dent in
the gains from the day before, suggesting debtholders are more
pleased with the merger than stock investors. The company’s $1.5
billion of bonds due 2022 fell 0.63 cent yesterday to 91.18
cents on the dollar, pushing yields up 0.11 percentage point to
7.17 percent, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s a positive aspect to this, which is ultimately
the move to a much more simplified transparent ownership
structure,” Dineen said yesterday in an interview. “Getting to
that stage is much more what people are concerned about, and
that’s obviously what’s driving the stock right now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christiana Sciaudone in Sao Paulo at 
 csciaudone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  