-- Mol to Consider Selling INA Stake Back to Croat Government
-- B y   M a r t o n   E d e r   a n d   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-10-03T16:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/mol-to-consider-selling-ina-stake-back-to-croatian-government.html
Mol Nyrt.,  Hungary ’s largest refiner,
said it may consider selling its INA Industrija Nafte  d.d.  stake
back to  Croatia  after the Balkan country’s police issued an
arrest warrant against Mol Chairman  Zsolt Hernadi .  Mol would reconsider the “nature of any future
involvement” with INA, Croatia’s $7.3 billion national refiner,
soon, the Budapest-based company said in an e-mailed statement
today. Its Adriatic neighbor would be considered as a potential
buyer should a decision to sell be made, Mol said.  “MOL will consult with the Croatian government, which has
already stated on many occasions about the intention of getting
operational control,” the company said.  Croatia is seeking Hernadi’s arrest in connection with a
corruption investigation related to a 2009 contract in which Mol
won control over INA. Former Croatian Prime Minister Ivo
Sanader, who presided over the deal, is serving a 10-year prison
term after a court in Zagreb ruled he received a bribe from Mol.
Locked in a dispute over INA since Sanader’s arrest in 2010, the
two sides started talks on INA’s future last month.  Mol has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing, and Sanader is
appealing the verdict.  Croatia will not comment on the situation until it receives
something official from Mol, said Prime Minister  Zoran
Milanovic ’s spokeswoman, Zinka Bardic.  It could potentially buy back Mol’s stake with
“appropriate financial instruments and with the price adjusted
from the current market-capitalization price,” said Davor
Stern, the former head of INA’s supervisory board.  Shares Fall  Hungary’s government, Mol’s biggest shareholder, accused
Zagreb of trying to intimidate Mol yesterday and urged the
Hungarian company to consider selling its INA stake to Croatia
or to a third party.  Mol shares briefly pared declines after the company’s
statement today before falling again. They were down 2 percent
by 4:31 p.m. in Budapest, a 16-month low on a closing basis.  “Mol isn’t very well positioned in this dispute,” Kamil
Kliszcz, a Warsaw-based utilities analyst at BRE Bank SA
brokerage, the Polish unit of Commerzbank AG, said by phone
today before Mol’s statement was published. The biggest risk is
that it would be forced to sell at a lower price than what the
market has discounted, he said.  Milanovic today said he hopes talks with Mol will continue
and the arrest warrant for Hernadi is part of a judicial
procedure that precedes his government.  Should no deal be reached and Croatia’s “political
statements and legal cases” continue, then there will be
“nothing left to do other than selling the  INA  stake,”
Hungarian Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi said in a HirTV
interview yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marton Eder in Budapest at 
 meder4@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  