-- Old Mutual Unit Shuns Capitec Bond Sales on Consumer Damage
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-10-03T06:24:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/old-mutual-unit-shuns-capitec-bond-sales-on-consumer-damage-1-.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) ’s South African fixed-income investment unit said its development funds have halted
purchases of bonds from unsecured lenders in the country because
the high-interest credit they offer is hurting consumers.  Futuregrowth Asset Management will “wind down” its
holdings of bonds in  Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. (CPI) , African Bank
Investment Holdings Ltd. and other unsecured lenders over three
to four years as the securities mature, said Chief Investment
Officer Andrew Canter, who helps oversee 128 billion rand ($12.7
billion). It’s not a “panic exit,” he said, adding that the
Old Mutual unit may hold 1 billion rand of the bonds.  “From having the view that micro-lending was always a
social good, now we’re shifting and saying maybe not, maybe
there’s damage being done,” Canter said in an interview in  Cape
Town  yesterday. “Nobody says it’s their intention to cripple
people, but de facto, that’s what’s happening.”  New entrants to  South Africa ’s unsecured lending market
have reduced the price of credit, Carl Fischer, executive
director of marketing and corporate affairs at Stellenbosch-based Capitec, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  South African consumer borrowing not backed by assets
surged fourfold to more than 120 billion rand in the three years
to 2012, according to Macquarie Group Ltd., as lenders including
Bayport Financial Services Pty Ltd. competed for low-income
clients. With annual interest rates of as much as 60 percent,
those customers are struggling to repay loans as increasing fuel
and power prices pushed inflation to a four-year high in August.  Bad Dynamic  “Even good players are being forced to do the wrong thing,
offering clients more credit, to defend their clients from the
bad players, so it’s a bad dynamic,” said Canter. “We’re not
saying the likes of Capitec or  Bayport (TCP)  aren’t credit-worthy,
we’re just saying we don’t want to be lending money to unsecured
lenders out of our development funds.”  Figures from the National Credit Regulator show that
unsecured lending granted in the three months through June
dropped 14 percent from a year earlier, Capitec’s Fischer said
in response to whether South African consumers were being
increasingly crippled by debt.  “The unhealthy part is if new providers have a high risk
appetite,” said Fischer. “The credit regulator is addressing
the affordability definitions and this will improve overall
conditions in the market.”  Shifting Assets  African Bank declined to comment, while Mark Herskovits,
head of debt capital markets for Transaction Capital, which
oversees the issuance of Bayport’s bonds, didn’t immediately
respond to a message on his office phone or e-mailed questions.  Capitec’s five-year rand bond due in May 2016 surged to its
highest in two weeks yesterday at 8.925 percent and has climbed
almost 100 basis points this year. The premium investors demand
to hold the bank’s notes over similarly dated South African
government bonds peaked at 301 basis points in August and was
279 basis points yesterday.  Futuregrowth may shift funds from those development funds,
which account for 14.2 billion rand of assets, to investments in
alternative energy, housing, farming and infrastructure, Canter
said. The asset manager is drafting a policy on unsecured
lending, he said.  “It’s legitimate, it’s legal, but in our developmental
portfolios we just don’t feel like it’s a story we’re
comfortable with,” he said. “In our mainstream portfolios
we’ll still fund them and we’ll charge more for risk. We’re
saying clearly the consumer is going to crack or there’s going
to be a political backlash or something’s going to go wrong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  