-- Tombini Says Brazil Seeks 2014 CPI as Near Target as Possible
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2013-10-03T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tombini-says-brazil-seeks-2014-cpi-as-near-target-as-possible.html
Brazil ’s central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said policy makers will work to bring
inflation as close to target as possible next year.  “The inflation target is 4.5 percent,” he said in an
interview at Bloomberg’s office in London yesterday. “Our
ambition is to bring inflation down, closer to the target.”  Policy makers have increased Brazil’s key rate by 175 basis
points since April, the most in the world, to arrest inflation
that breached the upper limit of their target range twice this
year. The higher cost of living has eroded consumer and business
confidence, reducing economic growth.  Tombini, 49, said Brazil has a window from July 2013 to
April 2014 in which annual inflation will probably slow, given
that monthly consumer price increases were high in the previous
year. He expects analysts to cut back their inflation estimates
as price increases on a 12-month basis continue to ease.  Swap rates on the contract due in January 2015, the most
traded in  Sao Paulo , pared earlier declines, falling four basis
points, or 0.04 percentage points, to 10.27 percent yesterday.
Traders are betting Tombini will raise the benchmark interest
rate by half a percentage point next week.  Tombini said his comments in the interview only reinforced
the messages he delivered to Congress in the past three weeks
and that he didn’t intend to provide guidance on future
interest-rate decisions.  Tightening Cycle  Brazil and  Indonesia  are the only two countries amid 49
major economies tracked by Bloomberg that lifted borrowing costs
this year. As many as 20 nations, including Mexico and  Colombia ,
reduced benchmark rates to fuel growth.  Before embarking in a tightening cycle in April, Tombini
reduced the benchmark interest rate to a historic-low 7.25
percent, earning him the nickname “Pombini,” a play on the
Portuguese word for dove, the symbol used to describe central
bankers with optimistic views of inflation. He has headed the
central bank since President  Dilma Rousseff  took office in 2011.  Under his watch, inflation has averaged 6.11 percent and
has remained above the 4.5 percent midpoint of the government’s
2.5 percent to 6.5 percent target range. That compares with an
average 4.81 percent during President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ’s second term from 2007 to 2010.  Pass-through  A 6.4 percent decline in the currency this year has
complicated the fight against inflation by increasing the prices
of imported goods and raw materials. Policy makers announced a
$60 billion intervention plan Aug. 22 that has helped buoy the
currency, which gained 11 percent since then, more than any
other in the world.  Tombini said he is “satisfied” with the results of the
program, which helped reduce volatility in the currency. The
central bank is watching closely to mitigate pass-through of the
weaker real to consumer price, he said.  The real increased 1.1 percent to 2.1917 per  U.S. dollar 
yesterday.  Consumer prices, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, rose
5.93 percent in the year through Sept. 12, the national
statistics agency said Sept. 20. It was the first time in nine
months that annual inflation slowed below 6 percent.  Faster inflation was accompanied by weaker economic growth
even as Rousseff’s administration reduced taxes, boosted
subsidized credit and trimmed borrowing costs from August 2011
to October 2012.  Slower Growth  Latin America ’s biggest economy expanded less than forecast
by analysts in five of the past six quarters. The central bank
trimmed its 2013 gross domestic product growth outlook to 2.5
percent from 2.7 percent this week.  At the same time, central bankers boosted their 2014
inflation forecast to 5.7 percent from 5.2 percent. The consumer
price prediction is based on raising interest rates to 9.75
percent by year-end from 9 percent.  Keeping the interest rate below 10 percent would undercut
policy makers’ message of slowing inflation, according to Jose Francisco de Lima Goncalves, chief economist at Banco Fator. He
expects Tombini to raise the Selic rate to 10 percent by
November.  Tombini said industrial production in August, which
contracted 1.2 percent from a year ago, was in line with the
central bank’s expectations. The decline was twice as big as the
median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 36 analysts.  The economy will grow at an annual average of 2 percent
from 2011 to 2013, according to estimates by the central bank.
That is the slowest three-year mean since the 2000 to 2002
period.  Analysts Forecast  While analysts surveyed by the central bank forecast
Tombini will raise  interest rates  to 9.75 percent this year and
pause until the end of 2014, traders are betting borrowing costs
could be lifted as high as 11 percent.  GDP growth in the second quarter rebounded to 1.5 percent
from the previous three months, beating the 0.9 percent median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 44 analysts. Growth will slow
to near zero in the third quarter, according to Ronaldo Patah,
the superintendent of fixed income at Itau Asset Management.  Success in 2014 would be “to complete one more year with
inflation in line with our regime, as slow as possible, as close
to the target as possible,” said Tombini.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  