-- Mongolia Sets Same Rules for Foreign Private Investors
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K o h n
-- 2013-10-07T09:02:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/mongolia-sets-same-rules-for-foreign-private-investors-with-law.html
(Corrects date law takes effect in second paragraph, tax
timeframe in fifth paragraph and state-ownership requirement in
eighth paragraph of story published Oct. 3.)  Mongolia’s parliament approved a law
on investment that ends the application of different rules for
domestic and foreign private investors and sets stable tax
periods, overturning two earlier laws.  The Great Hural voted today to pass the new Investment Law,
which takes effect from Nov. 1, according to Sereeter
Javkhlanbaatar, director of foreign investment at the ministry
of economic development. It voids the Strategic Entities Foreign
Investment Law, or SEFIL, passed in 2012.  The new law may help boost investor confidence as
protracted conflicts with key foreign investors in Mongolia,
including  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , deters investments. Foreign direct
investment plunged 47 percent in the first eight months.  It’s “the most significant step forward for foreign
investment into Mongolia in nearly five years,” Chris
MacDougall, managing director of Mongolian Investment Banking
Group LLC, said by e-mail. “Tax stabilization measures and
provisions that will help to prevent future changes to the
legislation should provide investors with the confidence that
they need to return to the market.”  The new law sets stable tax periods based on the investment
amount and the location within the country and will set tax
rates for between five to 22.5 years, Javkhlanbaatar said. It
makes no distinction between domestic and foreign private
investors, eliminating earlier rules that were perceived as
discriminatory against foreigners, and replaces laws passed in
1995 and 2012.  Rules would apply based on the day a contract is signed and
not be subject to the changing legal environment during the
lifetime of the deal.  Investor Concern  “The main concern among investors is that every four years
the new government treats foreign investors differently,”
Ochirbat Chuluunbat, Mongolia’s deputy minister for economic
development, said in an interview in Ulaanbaatar yesterday
before the law was passed. It means the “treatment of all
investments will be done equally and there will be no need for
the government to negotiate over every investment in Mongolia,”
he said.  Under the new law, any entity with 50 percent or more
foreign-government ownership which wants to operate in the
sectors of mining, banking or communication, and wants to hold
more than 33 percent of a company, will still need government
permission, Javkhlanbaatar said, unchanged from the SEFIL law.  A similar provision existed in the 2012 law, which blocked
a bid by Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. from acquiring coal miner
 SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Kohn in Ulaanbaatar at 
 mkohn5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  