-- Moody’s Says Argentine Upgrade Hinges on Politics Not Reserves
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-10-03T19:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/moody-s-says-argentine-upgrade-hinges-on-politics-not-reserves.html
An upgrade of Argentina’s credit
rating depends on the government taking measures to boost data
credibility while compensating investors holding defaulted debt
and companies for expropriated assets, said  Gabriel Torres , the
country’s sovereign credit analyst at Moody’s Investors Service.  Moody’s rates Argentina’s local-law dollar bonds at B3, or
six notches below investment grade. In March the ratings company
cut the country’s foreign-law bonds one level to Caa1, the same
as Cuba and Belize, to reflect increased  default risk  from the
country’s legal fight with holders of defaulted bonds in U.S.
courts. The local-law B3 rating has been in place since 2005.  A U.S. Appeals Court upheld previous orders saying
Argentina must pay $1.33 billion to holders of non-performing
bonds from the country’s $95 billion default in 2001, led by
hedge fund Elliott Management Corp. The effects of the ruling
are being delayed until the U.S. Supreme Court decides whether
to review the case. Any decision on paying the so-called
holdouts would probably be a political decision, Torres said.  “Argentina has enough money; it’s a political decision not
to pay,” Torres said today in at a Moody’s conference in  Buenos
Aires . “It’s positive that political decisions are easier to
change than a big fiscal deficit or excessive debt.”  The payment would represent 3.8 percent of the country’s
$34.7 billion of foreign currency  reserves .  Credibility Issues  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has vowed to only
pay the holdouts a fraction of their claims, or about 30 percent
of face value in line with what other investors received in
restructurings in 2005 and 2010.  South America’s second-largest economy could improve its
 credit quality  by reporting more reliable economic data, letting
the  International Monetary Fund  conduct its Article IV review on
economic policies and resolving pending arbitration cases,
according to Torres.  It’s the government’s lack of credibility and unwillingness
to pay part of its debt that pushes Argentine credit risk to the
highest in the world, even as the country is growing faster and
has lower debt ratios and greater gross domestic product per
capita than most of its peers in  Latin America , Torres said.  The cost to protect against Argentine default in five-years
with credit-default swaps is the highest in the world at 2,455
basis points, according to data compiled by CMA Ltd. The extra
yield investors demand to own Argentine debt instead of U.S.
Treasuries is 1,022, the third-highest in  emerging markets .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in Buenos Aires at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  