-- Oracle’s Ellison Forgoes Payout to End Pillar Buyout Suit
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-10-03T20:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/oracle-s-ellison-forgoes-payout-to-settle-pillar-buyout-suit.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  founder  Larry Ellison 
will forgo a potential $575 million payment tied to the software
maker’s acquisition of a company he controlled to settle
investors’ claims over the deal.  Ellison, Oracle’s chief executive officer and a company
director, agreed to hand over 95 percent of an “earn-out”
payment tied to Oracle’s 2011 purchase of Pillar Data Systems
Inc. to resolve a pension fund’s claim that shareholders were
shortchanged, according to Delaware Chancery Court filings.
Ellison owned 55 percent of Pillar, a closely held provider of
data-storage systems. He was slated to get as much as
$575 million under the agreement based on Pillar’s performance.  “After weighing the costs and uncertainties of continued
litigation against the benefits of the settlement, plaintiffs
have determined it’s in the best interests of Oracle and its
stockholders” to settle lawsuits over the deal, investors’
lawyers said in court filings.  The settlement comes the day after Oracle officials
defended compensation packages for Ellison and other top
executives against criticism by  CtW Investment Group . Ellison’s
pay is appropriate because he’s an “extremely valuable asset,”
Dorian Daley, Oracle general counsel, said in a letter to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Pillar Payout  Deborah Hellinger , an spokeswoman for  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle, declined in an e-mailed statement today
to comment on the settlement. The money Ellison agreed to hand
over from any payout related to Pillar will be returned to
Oracle’s coffers under the accord.  Oracle, the world’s largest maker of  database software ,
bought  San Jose , California-based  Pillar  in June 2011 in a deal
that required no up-front compensation and allowed for an earn-out payment based on Pillar’s performance over the next three
years, according to a  filing  with the SEC.  The 68-year-old Oracle CEO’s $544 million investment in the
data-storage startup was converted into preferred Pillar shares.  Those shares were canceled after the transaction was
completed in exchange for rights to receive a portion of the
earn-out payment that may be made in 2014, the investors said in
court filings earlier this year.  Pension Funds  The investors, pension funds in  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania 
that own Oracle shares, sued in  Delaware  challenging the
decision to acquire Pillar. They filed suits against the board
that would return any recovery from insurance covering company
officers and directors to Oracle’s coffers.  The investors contended in court papers that Oracle
directors improperly used company resources to “bail out”
Ellison from his “horrible investment” in Pillar. They accused
Oracle directors of violating legal duties to shareholders by
backing the Pillar buyout.  Lawyers for Oracle’s board argued the deal was structured
to provide no immediate payment to ensure Ellison didn’t
improperly benefit from the acquisition. Any payment would only
be made if Pillar’s performance over a three-year period
warrants it, they said in court filings.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine refused last year
to throw out Oracle investors’ claims. Shareholders properly
raised questions about whether the buyout “was a legitimate
deal and whether somebody could have gotten a better deal,” the
judge said at a hearing in Wilmington.  Insurance Fight  The settlement is contingent on Oracle’s winning a court
ruling requiring an insurer to hand over about about
$20 million in coverage, according to the filings.  Beazley , a London-based insurer, is refusing to hand over
insurance covering Oracle’s officers and directors for legal
fees sought by investors’ attorneys, the filings show. The
lawyers are seeking $19.9 million in fees and costs, accord to
court papers.  “Beazley has refused to pay a reasonable amount on
behalf” of Oracle’s directors to help settle the investors’
claims, lawyers for the company and its shareholders said in a
suit filed Sept. 19 in state court in Delaware.  Andre Bouchard, a lawyer representing the insurer, said the
settlement provides little benefit to Oracle given the projected
payout tied to Pillar’s performance is zero, according to
Oracle’s estimates.  The insurer is opposing the settlement partly because of
the “excessive nature” of the fee sought by investors’
lawyers, Bouchard said in a court filing.  The case is City of Roseville Employees’ Retirement System
v. Ellison, CA6900, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  