-- Toronto September Home Sales Rise 30% From Year Earlier
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-03T17:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/toronto-september-resale-home-sales-rise-30-from-year-ago.html
Home sales in  Canada ’s largest
markets surged in September from a year earlier as historically
low interest  rates  continue to lure buyers.  Sales of existing homes in Toronto, Canada’s largest market
by value of transactions, rose 30 percent from the same month
last year to 7,411 units, the city’s real estate board  reported 
today. Sales in  Vancouver , the second-largest market, jumped 64
percent, that city’s board said yesterday.  Housing-market  data  are showing few signs of a hard landing
after warnings from economists and policy makers that a bubble
may have been forming. Buyers appear to be rushing into the
market before  mortgage rates  rise further, said  Derek Holt , an
economist at Bank of  Nova Scotia .  “Much of this sales strength of late has been brought
forward at the expense of later in the year and particularly
into the spring market next year,” Holt, vice president of
economics at Scotiabank in Toronto, said by telephone.  “I find it a little disturbing to see in some quarters
that the four- or five-month trend has been fist-pumped as a
source of great optimism,” said Holt, who also cited rising
mortgage rates, the impact of weak job growth, and record high
home prices and household debt levels as reasons for caution.  Condo Glut  The  Canadian Real Estate Association , which publishes
aggregated national data around the middle of each month, said
Sept. 16 that sales increased 2.8 percent in August, a sixth
consecutive gain.  Recent gains follow a contraction at the end of 2012 after
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  tightened government-insured
mortgage rules on speculation a condo glut might lead to sharp
price declines. The Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions, the nation’s federal banking regulator, released
tougher mortgage-lending standards last year.  The effect of those measures may be dissipating.  “It’s great news that households have found that the costs
of home ownership, including mortgage payments, remain
affordable,” Dianne Usher, president of the Toronto realtor
group, said in the statement.  The average price of a home sold in Toronto climbed 6.5
percent from a year earlier to C$533,797 ($517,000), the board
said in an e-mailed statement today. The average sale price of a
home in Vancouver is up more than 8 percent, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  Combined sales in six major real estate markets that have
reported data for September, including British Colubmia’s Fraser
Valley and Victoria, Calgary and  Edmonton , increased 30.7
percent in September from a year ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  