-- German Stocks Decline as U.S. Services Growth Slows
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-03T15:59:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/most-german-stocks-advance-amid-china-data-as-k-s-rallies.html
German stocks  dropped for a second
day as data showed American services industries expanded at a
slower pace than economists had predicted and the U.S.
government shutdown entered a third day.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, slipped
2.1 percent.  Gerresheimer AG (GXI)  slid 2 percent after Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded its rating on the stock.  K+S AG (SDF) , a maker of
fertilizer ingredients, added 2.9 percent after a report that
Russia is pushing for OAO Uralkali to resume cooperation on
potash sales with its Belarusian rival.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  declined 0.4 percent to 8,597.91 at the close
of trading in  Frankfurt , erasing a earlier gain of as much as
0.3 percent as the  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S. non-manufacturing index fell more than forecast. The benchmark gauge
surged 8 percent in the three months through September, the
biggest quarterly advance in a year, as the  Federal Reserve 
maintained its monthly bond purchases to support the  U.S.
economy . The HDAX Index dropped 0.3 percent today.  “The ISM number is weaker than expected, though it does
not yet signal a shift in the trend of a slowly recovering U.S.
economy,” Francois Savary, chief investment officer at Reyl &
Cie. said by phone from Geneva. “The big uncertainty weighing
on markets is still the debt and deficit issue, which would be
bad for equities if there is no compromise in the next few
days.”  The volume of shares changing hands in DAX-listed companies
was 46 percent lower than the average of the past 30 trading
sessions as many businesses closed for the German Unity Day
holiday.  Economic Data  The U.S.  non-manufacturing  index fell to 54.4 in September
from 58.6 the prior month, the Tempe, Arizona-based ISM said
today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey called for a
drop to 57. A number more than 50 indicates expansion.  Talks between President  Barack Obama  and congressional
leaders yesterday failed to break the budget impasse as the U.S.
government shutdown placed as many as 800,000 federal employees
temporarily out of work.  A partial halt lasting one week would probably shave 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey, with the costs
accelerating if the closure persists.  Congress also faces a dispute over raising the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling  this month. The Treasury has said measures
to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit will be exhausted by Oct.
17. The U.S. won’t have enough money to pay all of its bills at
some point between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31 without action by
Congress, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  ‘Uncertain Times’  “We all think the U.S. will reach a solution before we get
to a default situation,” Richard Titherington, head of  emerging
markets  at JPMorgan Asset Management in London, told Anna
Edwards and  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television. “But it
illustrates that these are uncertain times and the U.S. is no
exception to that.”  Commerzbank lost 2.1 percent to 8.74 euros, following its
biggest two-day gain in three weeks.  Gerresheimer declined 2 percent to 44.68 euros as Credit
Suisse cut its  recommendation  on the stock to neutral from
outperform. The brokerage lowered its full-year earnings
estimates for the maker of pharmaceutical and health-care
equipment through to 2015 and said the stock is trading close to
its 46-euro price target.  K+S rose 2.9 percent to 19.15 euros, paring this year’s
drop to 45 percent. Billionaire Suleiman Kerimov will probably
sell his 22 percent stake in Uralkali, the world’s biggest
potash producer, to a local investor, Dow Jones reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the discussions.  Russia  told bidders for the stake that they should repair a
rift with Belarus which ended a joint venture controlling 40
percent of global potash exports, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  