-- Swiss Stocks Drop as U.S. Services Gauge Misses Estimates
-- B y   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2013-10-03T16:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/most-swiss-stocks-climb-as-chinese-services-expand.html
Swiss stocks  declined to their lowest
level in more than three weeks after a report showed that U.S.
non-manufacturing industries expanded at a slower-than-expected
last month.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  fell more than 1 percent.
 Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  rose 1.7 percent as UBS named the maker of
hearing aids among its most-preferred equities.  Addex
Therapeutics Ltd. (ADXN)  jumped 5.8 percent after the biotechnology
company released the results of a comparative trial of its
treatment for a hereditary motor disease.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  lost 0.3 percent to 7,942.5 at the
close of trading in Zurich. The equity benchmark rose 3.6
percent in September, extending its gain last quarter to 4.4
percent, as the Federal Reserve refrained from reducing its
monthly bond purchases. The gauge has rallied 16 percent so far
in 2013. The broader Swiss Performance Index also slipped 0.3
percent today.  “The September ISM non-manufacturing index came in below
market expectations,” Jonathan Basile, an economist at Credit
Suisse in New York, wrote in a note. “Disappointment. The words
‘uncertain/uncertainty’ showed up three times in the report, the
most in at least the last 12 months. And this was before the
Federal government shutdown.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 28 percent lower than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Many businesses were
closed in  Germany  today for the Unity Day holiday.  The U.S.  non-manufacturing  index decreased to 54.4 in
September from 58.6 in August, according to the Institute for
Supply Management. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey had
called for a drop to 57. A number greater than 50 means that
activity expanded.  Budget Talks  The first face-to-face talks between President  Barack Obama 
and congressional leaders late yesterday failed to break the
impasse over the budget for the new financial year. The U.S.
government shutdown has temporarily placed as many as 800,000
federal employees out of work. A partial halt lasting one week
would probably shave 0.1 percentage points from economic growth,
according to the median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg
survey. The costs will accelerate if the closure persists.  Congress also faces a dispute over raising the $16.7
trillion  debt ceiling  this month. The Treasury has said that it
will exhaust measures to avoid exceeding the borrowing limit on
Oct. 17. If that happens, the government would run out of cash
to pay all of its bills at some point between Oct. 22 and Oct.
31, according to the Congressional Budget Office.  Credit Suisse  Credit Suisse fell 1.2 percent to 28.05 Swiss francs, its
biggest drop in almost three weeks, while UBS slipped 1.1
percent to 18.46 francs, its lowest price in a month.  Sonova rose 1.7 percent to 110.30 francs. UBS predicted
that the company will post good growth for the first half of its
financial year because of the success of its new Phonak
products, according to a note. Sonova reports its  financial
results  on Nov. 18.  Addex Therapeutics jumped 5.8 percent to 3.63 francs, its
biggest gain in seven weeks. The company said its drug reduced
the expression of a gene that can cause a rare type of
hereditary motor and sensor neuropathy. Addex compared the
effect of the treatment in a trial on rats to baclofen, a drug
which is marketed to treat nervous-system disorders and spinal-cord injuries, it said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  