-- Total Seeks Forties Crude; Saudi Arabia Lowers Selling Prices
-- B y   L a u r a   H u r s t   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-03T16:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/total-seeks-forties-crude-saudi-arabia-lowers-selling-prices.html
Total SA (FP)  failed to buy  North Sea 
Forties crude for a third time this week. Gunvor Group didn’t
manage to buy Russian Urals blend in northwest Europe at a
higher level.  Saudi Arabian Co., also known as Saudi Aramco, reduced its
November official selling prices for all crude grades to
northwest Europe and the Mediterranean, the company said in an
e-mailed statement today.  North Sea  Total didn’t manage to buy Forties for Oct. 21 to Oct. 24
loading at a premium of 30 cents a barrel to Dated Brent,
unchanged from its bid yesterday, a Bloomberg survey of traders
and brokers monitoring the Platts pricing window showed.  BP Plc failed to buy the same grade for Oct. 24 to Oct. 29
at 25 cents more than Dated Brent, while Royal Dutch Shell Plc
was unable to sell a cargo for Oct. 24 to Oct. 26 at a premium
of 39 cents.  Brent for November settlement traded at $109.04 a barrel on
the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange at the close of the window,
compared with $108.93 from the previous session. The December
contract was at $108.10, a discount of 94 cents to November.  The North Sea Dunlin Alpha production facility was shut on
Sept. 30 for planned maintenance, one day later than planned,
John Wiseman, the general manager at Fairfield Energy’s Dunlin
Area, said today in an e-mailed response to questions. About
12,000 barrels a day of crude, which flows into the Brent
stream, will be offline for 48 days, three more than originally
scheduled.  Urals/Mediterranean  Gunvor bid for Urals loading from the Baltic ports of
Primorsk or Ust-Luga on Oct. 24 to Oct. 28 at a discount of
$1.45 cents a barrel to Dated Brent. The grade last traded for
loading in northwest Europe at minus $1.90 on Sept. 26.  Saudi Aramco , the world’s largest crude exporter, lowered
prices to buyers in the Mediterranean by 25 cents to $1.50 a
barrel. Prices to northwest Europe were cut by 50 cents to $1.40
compared with this month. Aramco reduced Arab Extra Light’s
differential by the most at 75 cents more than the Brent futures
weighted average, or Bwave, published by the  Intercontinental
Exchange .  The spread for Arab Light from the Egyptian port of Sidi
Kerir was cut by $1.15 a barrel to a discount of 75 cents to
BWAVE, said two traders who received the notice, asking not to
be identified because the information is confidential.  West Africa  Four to five cargoes of November Qua Iboe crude remain
unsold, according to four traders who participate in the market,
asking not to be identified because the information is
confidential.  One consignment of the Nigerian crude was sold in the  spot
market , while  India  bought six others through tenders, the
traders said. Qua Ibo was offered at $4.20 to $4.30 a barrel
more than Dated Brent, 10 to 20 cents more than last month.  Indian Oil Corp. and  Indonesia ’s PT Pertamina will close
their crude import tenders for November loading or December
delivery tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Hurst in London at 
 lhurst3@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  