-- Tottenham Beats Anzhi Makhachkala in Europa League; Swansea Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-10-03T21:44:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tottenham-beats-anzhi-makhachkala-in-europa-league-swansea-wins.html
Tottenham beat Anzhi Makhachkala 2-0
to join eight other teams in continuing perfect starts in
soccer’s Europa League.  Jermain Defoe  and Nacer Chadli scored last night as
Tottenham won its second straight group-stage game. Swansea,
Sevilla,  Frankfurt , Rubin Kazan, Fiorentina, Genk, Ludogorets
and Salzburg also made it two consecutive victories in Europe’s
second-tier club competition.  Defoe gave two-time champion Tottenham the lead in the 34th
minute in  Russia  with his 20th goal in European competition,
moving him within one of Martin Chivers’s club record. Chadli
made it 2-0 six minutes later.  The win leaves Tottenham, the favorite to win the
tournament with bookmakers on oddschecker.com, atop Group K with
six points. Sheriff Tiraspol is second with two points after a
1-1 draw at Tromso.  Gerhard Tremmel stopped a penalty kick and Wayne Routledge
scored as Swansea beat St. Gallen 1-0 to take the lead in Group
A. Valencia beat Kuban Krasnador 2-0 for its first victory.  Rubin Kazan  defeated Zulte Waregem 4-0 to lead Group D over
Wigan, which beat Maribor 3-1. Sevilla, the second-two time
champion in the field, defeated Freiburg 2-0 and leads Group H
over Slovan Liberec, which beat Estoril 2-1.  Genk beat Thun 2-1 in Group G, as Rapid Vienna drew 2-2
with  Dynamo Kiev . Frankfurt won 3-0 at APOEL in Group F and
Maccabi Tel Aviv defeated Bordeaux 2-1.  Fiorentina Leads  Fiorentina took over the top spot in Group E with a 2-1 win
at Dnipro, while Pacos Ferreira and Pandurii drew 1-1. Sergio Floccari scored twice in the final six minutes to earn Lazio a
3-3 tie at Trabzonspor that left the team tied atop Group J,
while Apollon Limassol won 1-0 at Legia Warsaw.  In Group I, Vitoria Guimares and Lyon finished 1-1, as did
Rijeka and Real Betis. Salzburg leads Group C after a 2-1 win at
Esbjerg as Elfsborg and Standard Liege finished 1-1.  PAOK and  AZ Alkmaar  share the Group L lead after a 1-1 draw,
as Shakhter Karagandy and Maccabi Haifa tied 2-2. Ludogorets
beat Dinamo Zagreb 3-0 in Group B and PSV Eindhoven defeated
Chornomorets Odesa 2-0.  The third of six group-stage matches will be played Oct. 24.
The top two teams in each of the 12 groups advance to the round
of 32 alongside the eight third-place finishers from the elite
 Champions League  group stage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 