-- House to Blame in Fast and Furious Case Delay, Judge Says
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-03T17:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/house-to-blame-in-fast-and-furious-case-delay-judge-says.html
House Republicans suing Attorney
General Eric Holder for documents in their probe of the botched
Operation Fast and Furious will have to put up with a delay in
their case.  After the U.S. Justice Department yesterday asked to
suspend the litigation, saying it lacked adequate staff for
civil cases because of the partial government shutdown, the
House Oversight and Government Reform Committee argued the
request should be denied. Government lawyers were continuing to
work when a court ordered them to do so, they said.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson today in Washington
put the case on hold.  “While the vast majority of litigants who now must endure
a delay in the progress of their matters do so due to
circumstances beyond their control, that cannot be said of the
House of Representatives, which has played a role in the
shutdown that prompted the stay motion,” she said.  “There are no exigent circumstances in this case that
would justify an order of the court forcing furloughed attorneys
to return to their desks,” Jackson, an appointee of President
 Barack Obama , said in her order.  The Republican-controlled committee sued Holder to enforce
a subpoena its inquiry into Operation Fast and Furious, a
department probe that allowed illegal gun purchases in the U.S.
in an effort to link the weapons to Mexican gangs.  “While the committee doesn’t agree a delay is necessary,
the judge’s ruling will only pause the case until a funding
compromise is reached,” Becca Watkins, a spokeswoman for the
House panel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Curtail Cases  The Justice Department has sought to curtail or postpone
cases across the country as much as possible without
significantly compromising “the safety of human life or the
protection of property,” according to the department’s website.  If a court denies a request to postpone a case, the
government will consider the judge’s order “legal authorization
to continue” with staffing at the minimum level, Justice
Department planners said.  The case is Committee on Oversight and Government Reform v.
Holder, 1:12-cv-01332, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  