-- Pekao Jumps on Plan to Buy Rabobank’s Unit: Warsaw Mover
-- B y   M a r t a   W a l d o c h
-- 2013-10-03T15:30:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/pekao-jumps-on-plan-to-buy-rabobank-s-unit-warsaw-mover.html
Bank Pekao SA, Poland’s second-largest lender, rose to the highest level in almost three years
after  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , its majority owner, announced a plan to buy
Rabobank Groep’s Polish unit.  Pekao rose 2.5 percent to 184.5 zloty at close in Warsaw,
highest since December 2010. UniCredit, which owns 50.1 percent
of Pekao, offered to buy Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA to
expand in the European Union’s biggest eastern market, Chief
Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni  said yesterday. BGZ shares
surged 11 percent to 71.75 zloty, climbing to the highest since
November and valuing the bank at 3.67 billion zloty ($1.19
billion).  “Pekao has a lot of excess capital and it would be hard to
utilize it by a dividend payout or lending,” Michal Konarski,
an analyst at BRE Bank SA in Warsaw, said by phone today. “A
good acquisition is a good way to effectively use this money and
Pekao may achieve significant cost savings with a purchase of
BGZ.”  Poland has been among Europe’s most active markets for
deals involving banks and insurers since 2010. State-controlled
PKO Bank Polski SA, Poland’s biggest lender, in June agreed to
buy Nordea Bank AB’s Polish assets. Spain’s Banco Santander SA
acquired Bank Zachodni WBK SA and Kredyt Bank SA and created the
country’s third-largest lender this year.  Considering Options  Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank International AG bought Polbank
SA from EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA of  Greece  last year, while
 Germany ’s Talanx AG purchased insurer Warta SA from  Belgium ’s
KBC Groep NV in 2010.  Rabobank is considering various options for its Warsaw-based unit, spokeswoman Milou Verhaegh said by phone today. The
Dutch bank raised its stake in BGZ from 60 percent last year,
buying 16.9 million shares at 72.5 zloty each, according to  data
compiled by Bloomberg .  BGZ, whose shares have gained 31 percent this year,
currently trades at its book value, compared with 2.2 times for
Pekao and the domestic industry’s average of 1.7 times, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw at 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  