-- Ackman Stands by Herbalife Pyramid Claim as He Reduces Short
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-03T20:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/pershing-s-ackman-moves-to-soften-risk-on-herbalife-pyramid-bet.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  Bill Ackman  has reduced his equity short stake in  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) ,
taking a loss even as he reiterated his allegation that the
company is an illegal pyramid scheme.  In a letter to  Pershing Square  Capital Management LP’s
investors, Ackman said he replaced a portion of his original
short position, that was valued at about $1.5 billion, with
long-term put options. The move lets Pershing still make money
if the company fails “within a reasonable time frame” even as
it reached an all-time high last month.  “We have not learned any facts that are inconsistent with
our belief that the Company is a pyramid scheme that engages in
unlawful and deceptive marketing practices,” Ackman wrote. “In
fact, there have been a number of materially positive
developments that increase the likelihood of regulatory
intervention and the Company’s closure.”  Herbalife has repeatedly denied Ackman’s allegations and
Barb Henderson, a company spokeswoman, today declined to comment
on the letter.  Ackman declined to comment beyond the letter or elaborate
on the move, which reduces the equity short position held by
Pershing Square to 12 percent from 16 percent of the firm’s
$10.8 billion portfolio, he told investors. Pershing funds
declined by more than 5 percent in the third quarter and were
little changed, net of all fees, for the first nine months of
the year, according to the letter.  “A Capitulation"  ‘‘Clearly there is capitulation in these actions,’’  Tim
Ramey , an analyst with D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,
 Oregon , said today in a note to investors.  Herbalife fell 6.6 percent to $68.25 at the close in  New
York , for the biggest one-day drop since May 22. The Cayman
Islands-based company’s  share price  has more than doubled this
year.  ‘‘Short positions are often the fuel for why stocks go
higher, the guys who are short cover because they can’t take the
pain, and you have other guys buying the stock just to bust the
short,” Alec Levine, an equity-derivatives strategist at
Newedge Group SA in New York, said in a phone interview. “Now
that there’s no longer this enormous pressure on Ackman to cover
his short, the buyers who think they can squeeze him are not
there any more.”  Bond Speculation  Ackman said Herbalife’s recent share gain has been prompted
by speculation that the company will initiate a $2 billion
investment-grade  bond issue  at an interest rate of 4 percent and
use the proceeds to repurchase stock at $75 a share. Ackman said
he remains skeptical.  “Irrespective of whatever spin Ackman tries to put on this
display of legerdemain, the man just screamed the first syllable
in ‘Uncle’,” Robert Chapman, founder of hedge fund Chapman
Capital LLC, who has been critical of Ackman’s Herbalife
allegations, said in an e-mail. His latest move “must have cost
his investors an arm, leg and torso.”  Pershing Square also was looking to protect itself against
a short squeeze, Ackman wrote. In a short sale, an investor
borrows stock and then sells the shares in anticipation of
returning them at a lower price in the future. A short squeeze
occurs when other investors begin buying the same stock, pushing
its price up and forcing the short seller to buy back the
shares, possibly at a loss.  Ackman has accused Herbalife of swindling unsophisticated
consumers with false get-rich promises using overpriced products
that hide a pyramid scheme. He has urged U.S. regulators,
elected officials and community activists to help shut it down.  Operators of pyramid schemes typically seek to make money
by recruiting new members who pay fees to existing members
rather than relying on just the sale of goods and services. The
Federal Trade Commission has said modern pyramid schemes can use
products to hide their true intent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta  at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  