-- Pfizer, Ligand Win U.S. Approval for Hot Flash Therapy
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-03T20:22:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/pfizer-ligand-win-u-s-approval-for-hot-flash-therapy.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Ligand
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (LGND)  won U.S. approval for a drug to treat hot
flashes and osteoporosis.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared the drug, Duavee,
for moderate-to-severe hot flashes related to menopause in women
who haven’t had a hysterectomy, the agency said today in a
 statement . The medicine, also approved to prevent post-menopausal osteoporosis, will be available in the first quarter
of 2014, Pfizer said today in a statement.  The medicine from Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker,
will enter a market for hot-flash treatments that includes
 Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical Co. (4530) ’s Brisdelle.  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s
Evista, which generated $1 billion in sales last year, was
approved in 1997 for prevention of post-menopausal osteoporosis.
Duavee is the first FDA approved medicine that combines estrogen
with a compound that selects certain tissues to work on.  Duavee contains the ingredient bazedoxifene that can act
like estrogen on bone to protect density combined with a mixture
of estrogens. Pfizer, based in New York, sells Premarin, which
generated $1 billion in sales last year and is derived from the
urine of pregnant horses. Premarin has six uses, including the
two Duavee will be labeled to treat.  Ligand  rose  7 percent to $47.99 at the close in New York,
it’s biggest gain in more than three months. Pfizer fell less
than 1 percent to $28.77.  The most common side effects of Duavee in clinical trials
were muscle spasms, nausea, diarrhea, and abdominal pain, among
others, the FDA said.  Ligand, based in  La Jolla , California, formed a research
deal with Pfizer-acquired Wyeth, which developed the medicine.
The FDA rejected bazedoxifene in 2009, after multiple delays, as
an osteoporosis treatment on stroke and clotting concerns.  Duavee will have the same boxed warning as other estrogen
products, the FDA said. Premarin warns against an increased risk
of cancer of the uterus and of dementia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  