-- Philippine Peso, Stocks, Bonds Rally on Moody’s Ratings Upgrade
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-10-03T08:06:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/philippine-peso-stocks-bonds-rally-on-moody-s-ratings-upgrade.html
The Philippine peso strengthened the
most in two weeks while stocks and bonds rose after the country
won a debt rating upgrade from Moody’s Investors Service,
completing the nation’s ascent to investment rank.  The peso climbed 0.7 percent to 43.08 per dollar, the
biggest gain since Sept. 19. The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP) 
reversed an earlier loss, rising 0.4 percent to 6,387.65 at the
close of trading. The yield on local-currency government debt
due October 2037 fell 20 basis points to 5.30 percent, Tradition
Financial Services prices show. The rate on dollar bonds due
January 2021 dropped seven basis points to 3.37 percent, the
lowest since July, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Moody’s raised its debt rating for the Philippines by one
level to Baa3 with a positive outlook, it said in a statement
today. Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings have BBB- ratings for
the nation, having boosted their assessments in May and March,
respectively. Winning investment-grade status may spur global
demand for Philippine assets as a U.S. budget impasse prompts a
partial shutdown of the government in the world’s largest
economy.  “Moody’s has affirmed investors’ expectations and outlook
that domestic interest rates will remain low and stable,” said
Alex Pomento, a Manila-based strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd.
“Funds are moving back from developed to smaller markets
because of the U.S. government shutdown and the Moody’s upgrade
enhances the Philippine investment proposition.”  India, Uruguay  The Philippine economy expanded in the second quarter at
the fastest pace in Southeast Asia as President Benigno Aquino,
who took office in 2010, raised state spending while narrowing
the budget deficit and the central bank cut  benchmark interest
rates  to a record low. The debt ratings awarded to the
 Philippines  by Moody’s, S&P and Fitch are the lowest of 10
investment grades and put the nation on a par with India and
Uruguay.  Gross domestic product rose 7.5 percent from a year earlier
in the three months through June, matching  China ’s gain and
higher than the government’s 2013 target of 6 percent to 7
percent. Growth may exceed 7 percent this year, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said in an interview yesterday.  Alliance Global Group Inc. climbed 2.9 percent today, the
biggest advance in the Philippine Stock Exchange Index.  SM
Investments Corp. (SM) , owner of the nation’s largest bank and the
No. 1 department and grocery store operator, rose 2 percent. The
stock is the biggest contributor to the benchmark index’s gain.  Shares in the gauge  trade  at 17 times forecast 12-month
earnings, down from a record 21 on May 15. That compares with
the five-year average of 14 times. The MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index is valued at 11 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  