-- Philippine Investment-Grade Climb Complete as Moody’s Raises
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-03T06:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/philippines-completes-investment-grade-ascent-as-moody-s-raises.html
The Philippines won a rating upgrade
from Moody’s Investors Service, completing the nation’s ascent
to investment rank as President  Benigno Aquino  leads a growth
resurgence that’s outpacing the rest of  Southeast Asia .  The rating on Philippine government debt was raised one
level to Baa3, Moody’s said in a statement today, citing
“robust economic performance,” ongoing fiscal and debt
consolidation, political stability and improved governance. The
outlook on the rating is positive. Stocks and the peso rose.  Aquino, who won control of the Philippine Congress in May
elections, has pledged to accelerate reforms needed to ensure
the nation’s economic revival is sustained. His efforts won
investment-grade credit scores from Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings earlier this year, while the country’s expansion of 7.5
percent in the second quarter matched  China ’s pace.  “The upgrade was expected; what is a bit surprising here
is the positive outlook, making them more bullish than other
rating agencies,” said  Euben Paracuelles , an economist at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in  Singapore . “It’s a big plus for Aquino,
reflecting the success of fiscal reforms and growth
sustainability. There’s a distinct possibility of another
upgrade before he steps down in 2016.”  The peso climbed to a two-week high, extending gains to 0.6
percent to 43.125 against the dollar as of the noon break in
 Manila . The Philippine Stock Exchange Index climbed 0.5 percent,
reversing an earlier loss.  ‘Most’ Influential  The $250 billion Philippine economy, which was more than
twice the size of  Malaysia  and 10 times bigger than Singapore’s
in 1960, was termed “the sick man of  Asia ” as it lagged behind
its peers in following decades. Now, the World Bank forecasts
growth will exceed 6 percent every year until 2015.  Expansion (PHGDPYOY)  held above 7 percent for a fourth quarter in the
three months through June, defying a regional slowdown as the
nation remained one of Asia’s best performers. The Asian
Development Bank yesterday raising its growth forecast for the
Philippines for this year to 7 percent and to 6.1 percent next
year, even as it cut its predictions for developing Asia.  Aquino, named by Time magazine as one of the world’s 100
most influential people this year, has raised tobacco and liquor
taxes to narrow the  budget deficit , ousted the top judge for
illegally concealing his wealth, and pledged to seek more than
$17 billion in infrastructure investments.  Withstand Pressure  “The  Philippines ’ economic performance has entered a
structural shift to higher growth, accompanied by low
inflation,” Moody’s said today. “The new growth path is being
reinforced in part by improved fiscal management.” The move
puts the Philippines on par with Turkey and  Spain .  Fitch was the first to upgrade the Philippines in March,
with S&P following in May. In contrast, Fitch cut Malaysia’s
credit outlook July 30 to negative from stable, while S&P
lowered Indonesia’s outlook to stable from positive in May.
Moody’s today lowered its outlook on  Brazil  to stable from
positive, citing deteriorating debt and investment ratios and
evidence the economy is going through a low-growth period.  Global bond yields showed investors ignored 56 percent of
Moody’s and 50 percent of rival S&P’s rating and outlook changes
last year, more often than not disagreeing when the companies
said governments were becoming safer or more risky, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Benchmark Rate  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas kept the benchmark  interest
rate  at 3.5 percent for a seventh meeting in September after
inflation eased to a four-year low in August. The nation will
withstand pressure stemming from the impending reduction of the
 Federal Reserve ’s stimulus, with growth exceeding 7 percent this
year, Governor Amando Tetangco said in an interview yesterday.  The  World Economic Forum  ranks the Philippines 59th in its
2013-2014 Global Competitiveness Index, up from 65 the previous
year. Fujifilm Corp., a maker of cameras and medical equipment,
and Sonion A/S, which makes high-end microphones and components
for audio headsets and hearing aids, are among companies that
began production at new factories in the Philippines this year.  Aquino plans to boost infrastructure spending to a record
next year, and add jobs to reduce poverty levels that are
unchanged since before he took office in 2010. The nation’s
 unemployment  rate is among the highest in the region.  “Now it is time for the president to sink his teeth into
substantial reforms,” said  Trinh Nguyen , a Hong Kong-based
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Raising public investment,
loosening of foreign direct investment restrictions and
improving the business environment are all required reforms.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  