-- Polish Ploy Backfires as Tusk Reaching for Growth Angers Voters
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-10-03T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/polish-ploy-backfires-as-tusk-reaching-for-growth-angers-voters.html
Donald Tusk has lost Iga Magda’s
vote.  Poland’s prime minister is seeking to prop up his sagging
popularity and rev up a slowing economy. The method he chose,
canceling government debt held by private pension funds to
create  fiscal space , is only making things worse for Magda, 33,
a mother of one, who voted for Tusk’s  Civic Platform  in 2011.  “It’s nothing more than a money grab,” said Magda,  who
studies labor-market trends at the Institute for Structural
Research in Warsaw. “For voters like me, Tusk’s decision leads
to the loss of trust and will make it more difficult to vote for
his party, which advertised itself as liberal.”  That sentiment is eroding Tusk’s support among urban
professionals and helped the opposition keep its first opinion-poll lead in six years. With the ruling coalition clinging to a
two-seat majority in parliament, the shifts in the political
scene are threatening the stability created by Poland’s first
post-communist premier to win re-election.  Snap elections before the scheduled 2015 ballot are
possible, according to Tusk. Such upheaval risks ending  Poland ’s
status as a safe haven in eastern  Europe , which helped push bond
yields to record lows, said Abbas Ameli-Renani, an emerging-market analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. in  London .  “The political uncertainty adds to concern that Poland is
arguably no longer as safe a pair of hands as it once was,”
Ameli-Renani said by phone. “The risk is that the ruling
coalition decides to use the increased fiscal leg-room to loosen
fiscal policy and improve their polling.”  Bond Yields  The yield on Poland’s 10-year government bonds rose to 4.86
percent on Sept. 5, an almost one-year high, after reaching a
record-low 3.07 percent in May, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Tusk was able to lure investors to Polish debt by making
the country the only European Union member to avoid recession in
2009 and by providing political stability. Entering his seventh
year in power, he is the country’s longest-serving premier since
the fall of communism 13 years ago. His 2007 election win ended
a period of four prime ministers in six years.  That run is now under threat as Civic Platform trails
former Prime Minister  Jaroslaw Kaczynski ’s Law and Justice party
30 percent to 24 percent in Homo Homini’s poll of 1,100 adults
on Sept. 20-21.  ‘Not Enough’  “Tusk can still count on his core electorate as people who
understand the economy see that the government was under
pressure from worsening budget conditions,” Henryk Domanski, a
sociology professor at the Polish Academy of Sciences, said by
phone from Warsaw. “The problem is that it won’t be enough to
win elections. Swing voters are key and they are drifting
towards the Law and Justice.”  Tusk’s slide began as the government narrowed the  budget
gap  by more than half since 2010 to 3.9 percent of economic
output last year. That exacerbated a slowdown sparked by the
recession in the euro area, Poland’s biggest export market, and
forced Tusk to raise this year’s deficit target by 40 percent
and suspend a cap on public debt.  Seeking to loosen the spending reins and stimulate the
economy without a further blow to the budget, the government
will take over 51.5 percent of the $91.5 billion in assets
managed by private pension funds.  So far, that’s only made life more difficult for Tusk. Ex-Justice Minister Jaroslaw Gowin, Tusk’s main rival in the party,
left the coalition along with other two deputies. Civic Platform
and its allied Polish Peasants’ Party now control 232 votes in
the 460-seat Sejm. It also at times relies on independent
lawmakers and members of the opposition Palikot Movement to push
through legislation.  Public Rejection  Voters have also yet to embrace the  pension plan , even if
it will free up room for more state spending to stimulate the
economy, which is forecast to grow at its weakest pace since at
least 1997.  A survey by the CBOS research institute on Sept. 5-12
showed 70 percent of Poles disapproved of the government’s
economic policy, with the worst showing among younger voters
aged 24 and less. According to a September poll from Homo
Homini, 49 percent of working Poles disapprove of the
government’s decision that will cancel bonds held by the funds
and reduce public debt by 8 percent, while 17.3 percent back the
overhaul.  Still, Tusk probably has enough support in parliament to
hold on through the end of his term, said  Raffaella Tenconi , an
economist at  Bank of America   Merrill Lynch in  London.  ‘More Complex’  “The political backdrop has become more complex, but in
our view Tusk will remain in power until 2015 as the opposition
does not have yet a clear victory at hand,” Tenconi said by e-mail. “The gradual rise of the opposition party in the opinion
polls is not an imminent risk.”  Kaczynski is looking to capitalize on the weakness of a
rival who’s defeated him in two elections. In a Sept. 4 speech,
the opposition leader laid out a plan to raise taxes for high
earners and charge for transactions on the  Warsaw Stock Exchange 
for the next five years to help plug the budget gap. He also
pledged to increase the minimum wage from the current 1,600
zloty ($518) a month and introduce tax breaks for companies that
invest and employ people.  “Crisis is a time for investment,” Kaczynski, who was the
prime minister in 2006-2007, told an economic forum in Krynica,
southern Poland, last month. “Boosting demand and creating a
mechanism that would bring about technological progress is our
way to  growth. (POGDYOY) ”  His push is forcing Tusk to pull out all the stops even
with two years before the next election and is counting on a
rebounding economy to win back his voters. Growth accelerated to
0.8 percent in the second quarter and may reach 2.5 percent next
year, according to a median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 43
economists.  He’ll need to do more to win back Magda’s vote.  “It’s a pity that instead of reforming the economy the
Tusk cabinet is opting for the easiest measures to improve the
public finances,” she said. “There’s too much hypocrisy
here.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net ;
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  