-- Portugal Raises 2014 Growth Forecast, Keeps Budget Deficit Goals
-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-10-03T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/portugal-raises-2014-growth-forecast-keeps-budget-deficit-goals.html
The  Portuguese government  forecast
faster growth next year while keeping its deficit targets
unchanged as it tries to exit its bailout program.  “There are early signs of a recovery in economic
activity,” the  International Monetary Fund  said yesterday in a
joint statement with the European Commission and  European
Central Bank  about the completion of the eighth and ninth
reviews of the Portuguese aid plan.  The government raised its 2014  growth  forecast to 0.8
percent from 0.6 percent. It expects the economy will shrink 1.8
percent this year, less than its previous estimate of 2.3
percent. The  unemployment rate  will be 17.4 percent this year,
lower than an earlier projection of 18.2 percent.  Prime Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  has to trim spending by
about 3.3 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in 2014 after relying
mainly on tax increases this year to meet targets set in the aid
program from the European Union and IMF. Portugal is trying to
regain full access to debt markets with the end of the 78
billion-euro rescue plan approaching in June 2014.  “We now only have three reviews left,” Vice Premier Paulo Portas said at a press conference in Lisbon yesterday.
Portugal’s economy expanded in the second quarter for the first
time since 2010 as export growth accelerated.  The government kept its budget deficit targets of 5.5
percent of gross domestic product for this year and 4 percent
for 2014. The 2014 budget proposal, including new government
spending cuts, is due to be handed to parliament on Oct. 15.  Constitutional Court  If the country’s  Constitutional Court  blocks some measures
planned for 2014 “the government would need to reformulate the
draft budget in order to meet the agreed  deficit  target,” the
EU and IMF said. “This, however, would imply increasing risks
to growth and employment and would reduce the prospects for a
sustained return to financial markets.”  The court on Aug. 29 blocked a proposal to end some state
workers’ labor contracts. That was part of a government plan to
“requalify” some public-sector employees. The government on
Sept. 12 presented changes to that plan to address the ruling.  Portugal’s  debt  is forecast to peak at 127.8 percent of GDP
this year, the EU-ECB-IMF “troika” said in the joint
statement.  Public debt is “clearly” sustainable, Finance Minister
Maria Luis  Albuquerque  said at yesterday’s press conference. The
country plans to resume regular bond issuance next year and
doesn’t rule out another bond sale this year, Albuquerque said.
It also aims to do some debt exchanges, she said.  Bond Yield  Portugal’s  10-year (GSPT10YR)  bond yield has climbed since May, when
the rate reached the lowest since 2010 and the country last sold
bonds. Portugal’s 10-year bond yield is at 6.6 percent and the
country pays 3.2 percent on its bailout loans. Its debt is
ranked below investment grade by  Fitch Ratings , Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  The nation’s debt agency said on July 12 that it plans to
resume regular issuance of bonds “only if market conditions are
conducive.” Financing needs for 2013 are fully covered, and in
the second quarter the debt agency started to “pre-fund” for
borrowing needs in 2014, IGCP said.  “Provided the authorities persevere with steadfast program
implementation, euro area member states have declared they stand
ready to support Portugal until full  market access  is
regained,” the troika said in the joint statement.  Approval of the eighth and ninth reviews of the aid plan
could take place in November, allowing for the disbursement of
5.6 billion euros from  Portugal ’s bailout package, according to
the statement from the IMF, ECB and EU. The next review is also
due to take place in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net ;
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  