-- Puerto Rico Sales-Tax Bond Grade Cut Two Steps by Moody’s
-- B y   M a r k   T a n n e n b a u m
-- 2013-10-04T00:37:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/puerto-rico-s-sales-tax-bond-credit-rating-lowered-by-moody-s.html
The  credit rating  on Puerto Rico’s
sales-tax revenue bonds was lowered two levels by Moody’s
Investors Service as the commonwealth tackles recurring budget
deficits and a struggling economy.  Moody’s said today it cut the rating to A2 from Aa3 on $6.8
billion of senior sale-tax bonds, saying Puerto Rico’s weak
economy has significantly limited growth in sales-tax revenue.
The New York-based company affirmed its A3 grade on $9.2 billion
of other bonds issued by the Puerto Rico Sales Tax Financing
Corp., known as Cofina.  The commonwealth’s general-obligation securities, which are
tax-exempt in all U.S. states, are on the brink of being cut to
speculative levels by major rating companies. Moody’s today
affirmed its Baa3 mark on the debt, its lowest investment grade.  Yields on some of the U.S. territory’s general-obligation
bonds reached record highs last month as prices slumped.
Investors demand about 5.2 percentage points of  extra yield  to
own 10-year Puerto Rico debt instead of top-rated securities, up
from about 3 percentage points in mid-August, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Distressed Levels  Some of the island’s bonds have been trading at distressed
levels and yields may rise as much as by 2 percentage points,
said  Peter Hayes , head of municipal debt at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   “It’s a dire situation in terms of the amount of debt they
have outstanding, the weakness in their economy,” Hayes said in
an interview with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  on Bloomberg
Radio’s “ Bloomberg Surveillance ,” before the Moody’s
downgrade. New York-based BlackRock, the world’s biggest asset
manager, oversees $109 billion of local debt.  Compared with similarly rated credits, “it has been over
the years overvalued in our mind,” Hayes said.  “In recent weeks, you’ve seen investors take a hard look
at that,” Hayes said. “They’re way ahead of the agencies here.
They’re actually pricing it like distressed debt, which is
probably right.”  An index measuring the island’s economy fell by 5.4 percent
in August from a year earlier, the steepest contraction since
2010, according to Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank,
which handles the commonwealth’s capital-market transactions.  “This administration has implemented a number of very
significant measures to support sustainable economic growth
through  job creation  and continued progress towards a balanced
budget,” commonwealth Treasury Secretary Melba Acosta Febo and
Jose V. Pagan Beauchamp, the interim government bank president,
said in a joint statement.  “We are confident that we can demonstrate continued,
significant progress on our fiscal and economic development
plans,” they said in response to the Moody’s rating action.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in  New York  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  