-- Puerto Rico Yields Set to Rise Further, BlackRock’s Hayes Says
-- B y   M a r k   T a n n e n b a u m
-- 2013-10-03T14:49:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/puerto-rico-yields-set-to-rise-further-blackrock-s-hayes-says.html
Puerto Rico’s bonds have been trading
at distressed levels and yields may rise by 200 basis points,
said  Peter Hayes , head of municipal debt at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)   The commonwealth’s general obligations, which are tax-exempt in all U.S. states, are on the brink of speculative grade
from the major rating companies as the island tackles recurring
budget deficits and a struggling economy.  Yields on some general obligations set record highs last
month. Investors demand about 5.2 percentage points of  extra
yield , or 520 basis points, to own 10-year Puerto Rico debt
instead of top-rated securities, up from about 3 percentage
points in mid-August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a dire situation in terms of the amount of debt they
have outstanding, the weakness in their economy,” Hayes said in
an interview with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee  on  Bloomberg
Radio ’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.” New York-based BlackRock,
the world’s biggest asset manager, oversees $109 billion of
local debt.  Compared with similarly rated credits, “it has been over
the years overvalued in our mind,” Hayes said.  “In recent weeks, you’ve seen investors take a hard look
at that. They’re way ahead of the agencies here. They’re
actually pricing it like distressed debt, which is probably
right,” Hayes said.  An index measuring the island’s economy fell by 5.4 percent
in August from a year earlier, the steepest contraction since
2010, according to Puerto Rico’s Government Development Bank,
which handles the commonwealth’s capital-market transactions.  Recent yields on Puerto Rico bonds have “gone up about two
to 300 basis points, depending on the credit, and it may have
another 150 to 200 basis points to go once they really get
through this,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Tannenbaum in  New York  at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  