-- Queen Spars With Thatcher, Nazis in Fledermaus: Review
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2013-10-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/queen-spars-with-thatcher-nazis-in-fledermaus-review.html
Queen Elizabeth  and  Margaret Thatcher 
are sparring yet again.  Moira Buffini’s “Handbagged,” a broadly comic piece now
at the Tricycle Theatre in North London, is about the fractious
relationship between the former Prime Minister (in power from
1979 to 1990) and her monarch. They had private weekly meetings
throughout the period, and Buffini makes a shrewd guess at what
really went on between the two women.  To help her, she doubles roles. An older Mrs. T. (Stella
Gonet) and older Queen (Marion Bailey) watch and comment on
meetings between their younger counterparts (Fenella Woolgar and
Clare Holman respectively). Two male actors take all the rest of
the roles.  The women discuss the major events of Thatcher’s
premiership: majority rule in  Zimbabwe , the wedding of Prince Charles and Diana, the Falklands War, the closing of coal mines,
and so on.  “Philip and I had put money on the result,” the younger
monarch says about the election which swept Thatcher to power.  “No we had not,” retorts the older Queen.  By using this comical contrarian device, Buffini has her
theatrical cake and cleverly eats it too. Controversial thoughts
are spoken, and then safely contradicted by the same person.  While it keeps things snappy and is often amusing, it also
feels a little like hedging to avoid any disputes.  Weighted Scales  It’s clear too where Buffini’s sympathies lie, which
weakens the potential for drama. The Queen is kind, wily,
gossipy and nicely center-left, while Thatcher is hectoring,
dogmatic and emotionally distant. The scales are safely
weighted.  Even the composure Thatcher displayed after the 1984 bomb
that nearly killed her is challenged.  “Such bizarre forced jollity at a moment like that,” says
the older Queen. “Profoundly impressive. But at what cost?”  Complex it isn’t: Superbly well acted it is, and Indhu
Rubasingham (the Tricycle’s artistic director) keeps the tone
enjoyably fast and light on a spare, minimal set. Fenella
Woolgar is particularly impressive as the younger Thatcher,
perfectly capturing her voice and carefully soft consonants.
Marion Bailey mines all the possible humor in the role of the
older Queen too.  There’s been plenty of film, TV, and theater interest in
Thatcher recently. We’re still waiting for the portrait that
will get to the heart of her challenging complexity. Rating:
***.  ENO ‘Fledermaus’  Christopher Alden’s  new production of “Die Fledermaus” at
ENO takes a bold new look at Strauss’s operetta.  He sets the action in an off-kilter expressionistic version
of the early 1930s. There are creepy shadows, exaggerated
angular gestures in the acting, and lots of transvestites.  For a while it gives the fluffy tale of adultery a dark and
delicious Freudian kick. Then, when brutal Nazi-like thugs
arrive to bully everyone in the prison scene in Act 3, the
energy seeps away. The staging becomes slow, stodgy and
unthreatening.  Conductor Eun Sun Kim does a terrifically sparky job in the
pit, and some of the singing is great. Mezzo Jennifer Holloway
makes a memorable impression as a warm-voiced and psychopathic
Prince Orlofsky. An evening of hits and misses. Rating: ***.  “Handbagged” is at the Tricycle Theatre in Kilburn.
 http://www.tricycle.co.uk  or +44-20-7328-1000  “Die Fledermaus” is in repertory at English National
Opera.  http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300  Muse highlights include the London and  New York   weekend
guides ,  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Jeremy Gerard  on U.S. theater,
and  Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  on movies.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com  or
https://twitter.com/ThompsonWarwick.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 