-- Treasury Says Default Impact Could Last More Than Generation
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-10-03T17:19:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/treasury-says-u-s-default-has-potential-to-be-catastrophic.html
A U.S. government default caused by
Congress failing to raise the $16.7 trillion federal debt limit
could have catastrophic consequences that might last decades,
the Treasury Department said in a  report  today.  “Not only might the economic consequences of default be
profound, those consequences, including high  interest rates ,
reduced investment, higher debt payments, and slow economic
growth, could last for more than a generation,” the Treasury
said in the report.  The Obama administration is trying to step up the sense of
urgency in Congress over the debt ceiling and the partial
government shutdown that began Oct. 1. Treasury Secretary Jacob
J. Lew is projecting that the U.S. will exhaust its
“extraordinary measures” to stay under the limit no later than
Oct. 17 and will then have about $30 billion in cash.  “In the event that a debt limit impasse were to lead to a
default, it could have a catastrophic effect on not just
financial markets but also on  job creation ,  consumer spending 
and economic growth -- with many private-sector analysts
believing that it would lead to events of the magnitude of late
2008 or worse, and the result then was a recession more severe
than any seen since the Great Depression,” the Treasury said in
the report.  Stalemate Continues  While the department was warning of the dangers of not
raising the debt limit, President  Barack Obama  urged  House
Republicans  to end the stalemate over the shutdown.  “Take a vote, stop this farce and end this shutdown right
now,” Obama said today at a construction company in Rockville,
 Maryland , just outside Washington. He said there is only “one
way out” of the government closing -- for House Speaker  John Boehner  to allow a vote on a stopgap spending bill without
conditions.  So far, the financial-market response to the political
gridlock has been muted. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was at
1,678.79 at 1:08 p.m. today compared with 1,681.55 on Sept. 30.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note has slipped 1 basis point
to 2.60 percent, and the Dollar Index is down 0.5 percent.  International Monetary Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said today it’s “mission-critical” for the U.S. to
raise the debt limit, warning policy makers that failure to do
so would seriously hurt the country and the world.  ‘Far Worse’  “The government shutdown is bad enough, but failure to
raise the debt ceiling would be far worse,” Lagarde said in
remarks at George Washington University in Washington.  The Treasury report emphasized the importance of U.S.
stability to the global economy.  “The  U.S. dollar  and  Treasury securities  are at the center
of the international financial system,” the Treasury said. “A
default would be unprecedented and has the potential to be
catastrophic: credit markets could freeze, the value of the
 dollar  could plummet, U.S. interest rates could skyrocket, the
negative spillovers could reverberate around the world, and
there might be a financial crisis and recession that could echo
the events of 2008 or worse.”  The Treasury said it sees indications of investor concerns.
The yield on six-month Treasury bills maturing Oct. 31 soared to
as high as 0.16 percent today, from 0.025 percent on Sept. 30.  Tentative Signs  “We may be starting to see some tentative signs that the
current debate is affecting financial markets,” the Treasury
said today. “Although the price moves are small and could
easily reverse quickly, the fact that yields on Treasury bills
that mature at the end of October are higher than bills that
mature immediately before or after, might suggest nascent
concerns about possible delays in payments on those bills.”  Concerns over the debt limit could also cause an increase
in  mortgage rates  “that would restrain the housing market and
household spending,” according to the Treasury.  The Obama administration doesn’t plan to use a
constitutional amendment to get around the debt limit, and
prioritizing some bills over others would be unworkable,
according to a Treasury official who spoke to reporters in a
conference call today. Congressional action is the only way to
avoid default, said the official, who asked for anonymity as a
condition for discussing the report.  The Constitution’s 14th Amendment says the validity of the
public debt of the  United States  “shall not be questioned.”
The Obama administration has previously dismissed the idea of
invoking the amendment to get around the debt limit.  Economic Fallout  Postponing a debt-ceiling increase “to the very last
minute is exactly what our economy does not need,” Lew said in
the report.  Obama met yesterday with financial-industry executives
including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  CEO Jamie Dimon. Blankfein
said after the meeting that lawmakers are risking the economic
recovery if they don’t raise the debt limit. The meeting was
part of an effort by the Obama administration to leverage the
business community’s clout in breaking the stalemate.  “It’s incomprehensible, frankly, that we’re sitting here
talking about the fact that the  United States of America  might
have to sit down at its desk in a couple of weeks and decide
which bills it can afford to pay,” John Kanas, CEO of  Miami
Lakes , Florida-based  BankUnited Inc. (BKU) , said on Bloomberg
Television today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  