-- REIT Payout Cuts Spurred by Fed Taper That Hasn’t Come
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-04T15:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/reit-payout-cuts-spurred-by-fed-taper-that-hasn-t-come.html
(Corrects CYS quarterly dividend in 12th paragraph of story
published Oct. 3.)  Steven Hoffman, owner of a wooden
button factory in  Brooklyn ,  New York , was drawn into real estate
investment trust  CYS Investment Inc. (CYS)  by its 12 percent dividend
yield. After buying 2,000 of shares a year ago that have since
dropped more than 43 percent amid concern the  Federal Reserve 
would reduce its economic stimulus, he’s now anxious his payout
will be cut.  “I’m pretty upset that CYS has gotten so upside down,”
said Hoffman, 64, adding that he tracks the stock daily to
decide whether he’ll hold or sell his stake.  Mortgage REITs, which attracted retail investors like
Hoffman with double-digit yields amid record-low  interest rates ,
plunged 18 percent since May 14 as government-backed mortgage
bonds endured the longest monthly losing streak since 1999. Amid
the rout, the companies shifted to more defensive strategies,
reducing the potential for future earnings that are used to pay
dividends. Their actions proved to be premature after the U.S.
central bank last month unexpectedly held off on slowing its $85
billion in monthly bond buying.  At least 10 of the firms cut third-quarter payouts,
including  Annaly Capital Management Inc. (NLY) , the largest,  American
Capital Agency Corp. (AGNC)  and  Apollo Residential Mortgage Inc. (AMTG)  Retail
investors, who make up a high percentage of mortgage REIT
shareholders, could be more likely to sell after the reductions,
said Christopher Donat, an analyst at New York-based Sandler
O’Neill & Partners LP.  Retail Investors  More than half of American Capital Agency owners are
retail, according to Donat. For  Armour Residential REIT Inc. (ARR) ,
which reduced its monthly dividend by 29 percent and has sold
almost a quarter of its holdings since the end of June, the
retail base is almost 70 percent and for CYS it’s more than a
third.  “In the past few years there was this quest for yield
among retail investors so they got more into newer agency
mortgage REITs such as Armour and  American Capital ,” said
Donat, who has a sell rating on the two companies’ shares. “If
those investors start selling mortgage REITs, institutions might
be worried there’s more retail selling to come and not take up
the slack.”  Hoffman, a  Long Island , New York native, became more
involved in investing during the past decade as the button
manufacturing business his father started in 1939 shrunk. He was
attracted to REITs including CYS and Annaly last year as the
firms were paying dividends almost twice the average yield on
company junk bonds.  Annaly Returns  Hoffman held Annaly for two month-long periods last year
and bought CYS in September 2012 after the stock gained 71
percent in the previous three years, including reinvested
dividends, outperforming a Bloomberg index of mortgage REITs
that increased 63 percent in the same period.  The purchase came a week before the Fed started its latest
round of buying home-loan securities and Treasuries to bring
down borrowing costs. The central bank’s purchases also drove
down yields on new bonds bought by mortgage REITs and increased
homeowner refinancing, reducing their profits.  The shares took another hit in May when the Fed signaled it
was weighing when to reduce purchases.  “Investors didn’t anticipate asset prices to weaken as
quickly as they did,” said Daniel Furtado, an analyst at
Jefferies Group LLC. “People were parked in these assets
thinking the economy was still just trudging along.”  Lower Payouts  CYS, based in Waltham,  Massachusetts  and run by former
Fidelity Investments bond manager Kevin Grant, last month
maintained its quarterly dividend of 34 cents, for an annual
yield of 17 percent. Still, investment bank JMP Securities LLC
predicts a lower payout this quarter after the firm reduced its
assets by 15 percent from May through June. Representatives from
CYS didn’t respond to telephone messages seeking comment on the
company’s strategy and payouts.  CYS’s dividend payments have reduced Hoffman’s loss to 27
percent from 44 percent. Hoffman said he may sell the REIT if he
can find another investment that pays a high yield. The stock
decreased 1.2 percent to $8.17 today in New York.  “Before I make a move out of something I have to have
something to put it into, and there isn’t much I find out there
attractive in dividend land,” Hoffman said.  Annaly already dropped its quarterly payout 13 percent to
35 cents last month; American Capital reduced by its dividend by
24 percent to 80 cents and Apollo Residential by 43 percent to
40 cents. Spokesmen for the companies declined to comment.  Overly Conservative  Some management teams were overly conservative and cut more
than they needed to, according to Merrill Ross, an analyst with
Baltimore-based Wunderlich Securities Inc.  “The dividends will be partly restored in the next year,
not fully, that will take longer,” she said.  Mortgage REITs used several strategies to prepare for the
Fed’s potential retreat, including reducing their use of
borrowed money, increasing interest-rate hedges, shifting to
shorter-term bonds and adding to cash reserves.  American Capital Agency shifted its portfolio toward 15-year mortgage securities from 30-year debt in the second
quarter, President Gary Kain said on a conference call in July.
It also reduced investments to limit the increase in its
leverage to 8.5 times, from 8.1, as the falling value of its
holdings eroded shareholder equity, he said. When markets
stabilize, it could add more leverage, he said.  “Over time, this could be a very good environment but
right now we’re sort of playing defense,” he said. The REIT has
declined 10 percent this year including reinvested dividends.  Hedging Costs  Two Harbors Investment Corp. (TWO) , based in  Minnetonka ,
 Minnesota , added derivatives to protect it against rising
interest rates. The cost of the hedges reduces earnings. The
REIT, which cut its dividend by 9.7 percent, has returned 2.3
percent this year.  “When there’s a time of great volatility and high
uncertainty, one of the key things to do in our mind is to
protect book value,” Chief Investment Officer Bill Roth said
Sept. 10 at a conference. “Because our ability to pay dividends
over the years to come is driven largely by how much capital we
have and if our capital base is deteriorated or eroded, our
ability to pay future dividends goes down.”  After the REITs prepared for a rise in rates, the rates
fell. A Bloomberg  index  of yields on benchmark  Fannie Mae  30-year securities dropped yesterday to 3.30 percent, after rising
to 3.81 percent on Sept. 5 from 2.28 percent in May as
speculation grew that the Fed would pare its debt purchases.  Future Earnings  A measure of spreads against Treasuries has erased much of
its gains since then. Yields on the securities fell yesterday to
1.30 percentage point higher than an average of five- and 10-year Treasury rates, after climbing to as high as 1.51 in July
from 1.14 percent in May. The current levels are lower than the
1.54 percent average since the start of 2000.  Mortgage REITs’ use of interest-rate hedges means the value
of their holdings and future earnings depend on both spreads and
yields, as well as their borrowing costs, which are tied to
short-term interest rates.  After the spreads narrowed following the Fed’s decision,
potential returns on the debt “aren’t quite as attractive as
they were,” said  Invesco Mortgage Capital Inc. (IVR)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard King said Oct. 1 at a conference.  Adjustments to Invesco Mortgage Capital’s strategy during
the “real-life  stress test ” of soaring bond yields included
less use of borrowed money, additional hedges against rising
rates and purchases of securities backed by adjustable mortgages
with a few years of fixed rates, he said. Protecting its book
value, or the net value of its holdings, remains “front and
center” in executives’ mind, he said.  Along with boosting bond values by holding off on tapering
its purchases, the Fed last month pushed back expectations for
how soon it will raise a rate target that guides mortgage REIT
borrowing costs, potentially holding them near zero for longer.  REIT managers “still say investing in bonds supported by
mortgage payments is a great way to create value over time,”
said Ross of Wunderlich. “The Fed will stand its course and
REITs can make money when the Fed withdraws, but the volatility
surrounding that might be painful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  