-- U.S. Report Says Oversight of Hanford Waste Plant Unfocused
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2013-10-03T22:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/report-says-u-s-oversight-of-hanford-waste-plant-lacks-focus.html
The U.S. contractor building a $12.2
billion plant to process millions of gallons of radioactive
waste at the Hanford nuclear site for safe storage didn’t always
ensure parts met required reviews, a U.S. report found.  Energy Department Inspector General Gregory Friedman said
in the report released today that U.S. oversight of the program
had significant shortcomings, and that Bechtel Corp. didn’t
always follow its design protocols to ensure the quality of the
components for the waste-treatment plant met specifications.  Bechtel, which is based in San Francisco, also couldn’t
always verify whether deviations from those design requirements
affected safety, the report said.  “The department’s oversight of Bechtel’s quality assurance
program lacked focus,” according to the Friedman’s report,
which was released today. The problems it identified led to
“the creation of major design vulnerabilities,” the report
said.  The Hanford site in Washington state produced plutonium for
the U.S.’s fleet of nuclear weapons from World War II through
the Cold War. The treatment plant is designed to process 56
million gallons of waste that is now stored in 177 underground
tanks prone to leaks. The report released today did not address
problems with the tanks.  Vitrification Process  The Energy Department’s Environmental Management office,
which oversees the Hanford clean-up, said it will take action to
address the issues raised by the audit. Bechtel said in a reply
included in the report that its corrective steps would be
implemented no later than Sept. 30.  “We are refining our procedures and have conducted staff
training to achieve the compliance we desire and require,”
Peggy McCullough, Bechtel’s manager for the Waste Treatment
Plant Project, said in a statement responding to the IG report.  Once constructed, the treatment plant will separate the
waste into high-level and low-level waste, and then solidify it
for storage in a glass mixture through a process known as
vitrification.  The Inspector General’s findings focus on the process by
which suppliers deviate from Bechtel’s original design plans to
account for unforeseen issues that arise during the plant’s
construction. Those changes weren’t always appropriately
approved or adequately documented, according to the report.  These included changes to a pressure vessel designed to
confine dangerous processing of fluids, gases and vapors, the
Inspector General said.  Supplier Design  After being told of the problem, Bechtel reviewed supplier
design change requests for the previous three years. Of the
4,028 documents, 1,425 hadn’t received sufficient review, the
report stated.  Bechtel then suspended approvals of the supplier design
changes to retrain workers.  The company also couldn’t demonstrate that it “had always
verified that suppliers had made and tested repairs to equipment
that may affect nuclear safety,” the report said.  One related to the quality of a lid designed to confine
dangerous gases produced during the vitrification process,
according to the Inspector General.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  