-- Republican Governors Clash With Washington Over Shutdown
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-10-03T16:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/republican-governors-clash-with-washington-over-federal-shutdown.html
U.S. Republican governors faulted
politicians in Washington for the budget standoff that shuttered
the federal government for the first time in 17 years, saying it
threatens to tarnish the party’s image.  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , the chairman of the
Republican Governors Association, said “dysfunction” in the
nation’s capital is casting doubt over the party’s philosophy
and clashes with how it has been implemented in the states.  “We are no longer going to outsource the Republican brand
to the folks in Washington,” he said in statement.
“Conservative principles, when turned into actual policies, are
working out in the real world. But the dysfunction in Washington
casts doubt on conservative ideas and whether they work or
not.”  The comments highlight a divide among Republicans as the
partial government shutdown entered its third day.  House
Republicans  are seeking to use the budget negotiations to force
changes to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law. Obama and
the Democrat-controlled Senate have refused.  The first partial government shutdown since 1996 has idled
800,000 federal employees, closed national parks and threatens
the economy. It comes a year ahead of elections that will
determine whether Republicans maintain their majority control
over governors’ offices and the House.  Little Progress  Since the shutdown began on Oct. 1, negotiations have
produced little progress. Democrats, including Obama, say
Republicans must agree to fund the government and raise its
borrowing limit, which it will hit in mid-October, before
engaging in broader negotiations over the budget.  More than a dozen House Republicans are pressing to drop
efforts to roll back part of Obama’s health-care law as part of
the budget, and Republican governors have criticized politicians
for failing to reach an agreement.  Today, the Republican Governors Association released a
video featuring Jindal and governors  Scott Walker  of Wisconsin,
 John Kasich  of Ohio,  Susana Martinez  of  New Mexico , and Nikki Haley of South Carolina, discussing how they’ve led their
states.  ‘Work Hard’  “We all have to work hard, with members of our own party,
and members from the other party, to find solutions that work,”
Jindal said. “We all do it. There is no reason the public
should not expect the same in Washington.”  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie , a potential 2016
Republican presidential candidate, told reporters the shutdown
is “craziness,” and a failure of both parties. Virginia
Governor Robert McDonnell, a Republican, told reporters it’s
“absolutely wrong” to shut down the government because of
disagreement about the health-care law.  Maine Governor Paul LePage, a Republican who drew support
from the  Tea Party , yesterday criticized Obama and congressional
leaders after about 400 employees of the National Guard in his
state were put on temporary leave.  “Some of these men and women have been deployed multiple
times,” LePage said in a statement. “Now they are being used
to make a political point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  