-- Republicans Said to Plan Debt-Limit Measure Amid Shutdown
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-03T16:43:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/republicans-said-to-plan-debt-limit-measure-amid-shutdown.html
House Majority Leader Eric Cantor of
 Virginia  indicated that Republicans and Democrats should
negotiate their differences on government spending and
increasing the nation’s borrowing authority at one time.  Republicans want to “sit down and talk to resolve our
differences” on both issues, Cantor told reporters today at the
U.S. Capitol.  House Republican leaders are weighing their next move in a
standoff that has shut down the government and risks a U.S.
default in two weeks.  They plan to bring up a measure to raise the U.S. debt-limit as soon as next week as part of a new attempt to force
President  Barack Obama  to negotiate on the budget, according to
three people with knowledge of the strategy.  The approach would merge the disputes over ending the
partial government shutdown and raising the debt ceiling into
one fiscal fight.  “I’d like to get one agreement and be done,” House
Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy told reporters yesterday without
offering details.  Cantor didn’t provide details on when Republicans will
introduce a measure to raise the debt ceiling. Leaders will meet
with rank-and-file members behind closed doors tomorrow morning
to discuss the next move.  No Incentive  Republican leaders are attempting to pair their party’s
priorities with a debt-limit increase, a plan they shelved last
month to focus on a stopgap measure to fund the government in
the new fiscal year. The goal is to have a bill ready in the
coming days, even without resolving the partial government
shutdown, according to a Republican lawmaker and two leadership
aides who asked not to be identified to discuss the strategy.  There’s no incentive for the Republican-controlled House to
take up a Senate-passed short-term measure without add-ons
because many lawmakers don’t yet feel the effects of the
government shutdown now in its third day, the people said.  Republicans are trying to navigate battles over reopening
the government and raising the debt-limit in a way that lets
them push for spending cuts and changes to Obama’s health-care
law while also avoiding default sometime after Oct. 17.  The goal is to force a deal on both spending and deficit
reduction at the same time, they said.  Plan Derailed  Last month, Republican leaders had planned to take up a
debt-limit bill that paired spending cuts, looser regulations
and a delay in the Affordable Care Act with the increase in the
borrowing cap rather than leading to a government shutdown over
the budget on the Oct. 1 beginning of the fiscal year.  That plan was derailed as rank-and-file members wanted to
concentrate their fight on the stopgap spending measure.  Representative Paul Ryan, the Wisconsin Republican who
leads the House Budget Committee is working on revising his
party’s debt-limit package after lawmakers also complained that
it didn’t trim entitlement programs enough or attempted to
balance the budget in 10 years.  The U.S. Senate will consider a debt-limit increase before
an Oct. 17 deadline free of any of the spending cuts or policy
changes that Republicans are demanding, Majority Leader Harry Reid said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  