-- Rinehart Daughter Fails in Bid to Delay Trust Trial
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-10-03T03:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/rinehart-daughter-fails-in-bid-to-delay-trial-over-trust.html
Ginia Rinehart, the youngest daughter
of the richest woman in the Asia-Pacific region, lost a bid for
an appeal hearing aimed at delaying next week’s scheduled trial
in a family dispute over a $4 billion trust.  A two-judge panel of the New South Wales Supreme Court of
Appeal today rejected Ginia Rinehart’s request for a hearing in
a bid to overturn a lower court judge’s denial of her request
for the dispute to be settled in private arbitration. The appeal
ruling allows the trial, set to start Oct. 8 in Sydney, to
proceed.  Gina Rinehart , Ginia’s mother, on Oct. 1 offered to step
down from managing the Hope Margaret Hancock Trust, yielding to
demands of two of her other children who accuse her of breaching
her duty and failing to act honestly in administering the
holdings. Gina Rinehart herself and Hancock Prospecting Pty, her
iron ore company, had unsuccessfully sought arbitration of the
dispute earlier.  John Hancock and Bianca Rinehart sued their mother in
September 2011 after she warned them three days before the trust
was due to vest that if it were allowed to do so, they would
face bankruptcy. Gina Rinehart had sought to extend the vesting
date to 2068 and maintain control of the trust, which holds 23.5
percent of Hancock Prospecting shares.  John Hancock  has offered to replace her as trustee, which
would give him control over the shares. He also nominated
Adelaide businessman Bruce Carter as an alternative trustee. The
opposing parties are in mediation today to see if they can agree
on a replacement.  Family Members  Gina Rinehart, 59, is the world’s 40th richest person with
a net worth of $18.4 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index, with Hancock Prospecting accounting for most
of her wealth.  Gina Rinehart and Ginia oppose the appointment of a non-family member to take over.  “The appointment of a non-lineal descendant will have very
grave consequences,” Ginia Rinehart’s lawyer Richard McHugh
told the appeal panel yesterday. “The court should not and
cannot appoint any trustee who is not a lineal descendant of
Mrs. Rinehart.”  A deed governing the operation of the trust prohibits a
non-family member from managing it.  Had Ginia Rinehart been successful in her bid for a hearing
before the appeal court, McHugh said the trial judge would have
been asked to put the dispute on hold pending the appeal.  The Hope Margaret Hancock Trust was created by Gina
Rinehart’s father  Lang Hancock  for the benefit of his
grandchildren, and according to original deed Lang Hancock
created in 1988, the trustee shall “stand possessed of the
shares and of the income” in the trust.  The case is John Langley Hancock v. Gina Hope Rinehart.
2011/285907, New South Wales Supreme Court (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  