-- Ringgit Rises Most in Two Weeks as Shutdown Seen Delaying Taper
-- B y   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-03T09:13:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/ringgit-leads-asia-gains-as-u-s-shutdown-seen-delaying-tapering.html
Malaysia’s ringgit gained the most in
two weeks on speculation the U.S. government shutdown will delay
the tapering of stimulus that has fueled gains in emerging-market assets. Government bonds advanced.  House Speaker John Boehner said yesterday President Barack
Obama refused to negotiate at a meeting with top congressional
leaders about the shutdown. The administration is in partial
closure after lawmakers failed to agree on a budget. Global
funds held 28 percent of Malaysian sovereign bonds in August,
compared with 31 percent for Indonesian notes and 17 percent for
Thai securities, according to official data.  “The lack of agreement on the fiscal front led to the
market thinking that it will mean the third round of
quantitative easing will be sustained for a bit longer,” said
 Nizam Idris , head of fixed income and currency strategy at
Macquarie Bank Ltd. in  Singapore . “There’s a lot of foreign
demand for Malaysian government bonds.”  The ringgit strengthened 1 percent, the most since Sept. 19,
to 3.1953 per dollar as of 5:08 p.m. in Kuala Lumpur, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of expected moves in exchange rates used to price
options, was steady at 10.73 percent.  The currency climbed 0.8 percent in September, its first
monthly gain since April, after U.S. policy makers unexpectedly
refrained from reducing $85 billion of monthly bond purchases,
known as quantitative easing.  Trade Surplus  Malaysian export growth probably accelerated to a 15-month
high of 4.7 percent in August, while the trade surplus widened
to 5.1 billion ringgit ($1.6 billion) from 2.9 billion ringgit
the previous month, according to the median estimates in
Bloomberg surveys of economists before data due tomorrow.  President  Barack Obama  summoned the top four leaders of
Congress to the White House yesterday for the first high-level
talks on reopening the partially shut U.S. government amid few
signs of a resolution. Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said the
U.S. has begun final extraordinary measures that will be
exhausted no later than Oct. 17 to avoid breaching its debt
limit.  Malaysia’s sovereigns have gathered technical and
fundamental support recently and this is likely to be sustained
in the near-term, Barclays Plc analysts including Singapore-based Rohit Arora wrote in a note yesterday.  Government bonds advanced, with the yield on the 3.26
percent notes due March 2018 falling four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 3.47 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 