-- Rooney and Sturridge Return for England’s World Cup Qualifiers
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-10-03T13:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/rooney-and-sturridge-return-for-england-s-world-cup-qualifiers.html
Liverpool’s Daniel Sturridge and
Manchester United’s Wayne Rooney were named in the England
soccer squad for its last two World Cup qualifying matches
against Montenegro and  Poland .  The strikers missed last month’s qualifiers against Moldova
and Ukraine to leave coach Roy Hodgson short on attacking
options. England beat Moldova 4-0 at home but could only draw
0-0 in Ukraine.  United’s  Danny Welbeck  is also in the 23-man squad for the
games that take place later this month, the Football Association
said today on its  website . He missed the Ukraine match because
of a suspension. Arsenal’s Theo Walcott and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain are out with injuries.  England, which leads its qualifying group by a  point  from
Ukraine and Montenegro, needs to win both matches to guarantee a
place in the 2014 World Cup in  Brazil .  “It’s a very strong squad of players,” Hodgson said at a
televised news conference. “We don’t need to even debate how
important these games are to us as a footballing nation, but I’m
confident that these are the players that can take us there.”  Rooney, who’s scored five goals in seven United appearances
this season, missed the club’s Champions League draw at Shakhtar
Donetsk yesterday after damaging a shin in training but is set
to return for the Premier League game at Sunderland this
weekend.  Sturridge has seven goals in eight matches for Liverpool
this season, including one against United in the Premier League.
He’s appeared six times for  England  and scored his only senior
international goal in an 8-0 win over San Marino in March.  The top teams in the nine European qualifying groups
advance to the tournament, while the best eight second-place
teams play for four places.  England faces Montenegro on Oct. 11 and Poland four days
later. Both games are at Wembley Stadium.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried in  London  at 
 bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 