-- Tropical Storm Karen Strengthens in Gulf on Track to U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2013-10-03T18:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tropical-storm-karen-forms-in-gulf-prompting-hurricane-watch.html
Tropical Storm Karen developed in the
southwestern  Gulf of Mexico , prompting hurricane and storm
watches for the U.S. coastline from Louisiana to  Florida .  The system’s top sustained winds strengthened to 65 miles
(105 kilometers) per hour, up from 60 mph earlier. It was about
430 miles south of the mouth of the Mississippi River and moving
north-northwest at 12 mph, the  National Hurricane Center  in
Miami said at 2 p.m. East Coast time.  “It’s obviously the most exciting storm we’ve had this
year in terms of U.S. impacts,” said Michael Schlacter, founder
of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York. “It’s almost on the cusp of
being a hurricane. The fact is, we can have a true hurricane
right in the heart of the Gulf of  Mexico .”  A storm becomes a hurricane when its top winds reach 74
mph, and if one gets into the Gulf it can affect U.S. and
Mexican oil and natural gas operations. The  region is home  to 23
percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6 percent of gas output and
more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according
to the Energy Department.  A  hurricane watch , meaning storm conditions may arrive in
two days, was posted from  Grand Isle , Louisiana, to Indian Pass,
Florida.  New Orleans , as well as the coast from Grand Isle to
Morgan City, Louisiana, is under a tropical storm watch.  Hurricane Potential  The center predicts Karen will reach hurricane strength
tomorrow. While that might not happen, the watch was issued
because it may be close, said  Dennis Feltgen , a spokesman for
the center.  The center’s  tracking map  forecasts Karen will make
landfall as a strong tropical storm near the Florida-Alabama
line early Oct. 6. It may drive tides 2 to 4 feet (60 to 120
centimeters) above normal from the Mississippi to Mobile Bay.  Karen is also expected to drop heavy rain on Mexico’s
Yucatan Peninsula and on western Cuba through at least tomorrow,
according to the center. Winds of at least 39 mph stretch 105
miles from Karen’s core.  Schlacter said Karen is most powerful on its eastern side,
so area affected by that part of the storm will be hardest hit.  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  recalled workers
furloughed by the government shutdown to help prepare for Karen,
said  Jay Carney , White House press secretary.  Gulf Evacuations  Energy companies including Destin Pipeline Co. and  BP Plc (BP/) 
began pulling non-essential workers from Gulf operations
yesterday.  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  shut its Neptune platform.  Karen may encounter wind shear as it crosses the Gulf, said
 Matt Rogers , president of the Commodity Weather Group LLC in
Bethesda, Maryland. Shear is when winds blow at varying speeds
or directions at different altitudes. That can tear at the
structure a tropical system needs to maintain strength.  “I still think too much shear in the Gulf will mess this
storm up,” Rogers said.  Tracking where a storm goes is much easier than predicting
its intensity, Schlacter said. Karen might encounter more shear
and weaken quickly, or hit an eddy of warm water and flourish,
he said.  The hurricane center is also tracking Tropical Depression
Jerry, which is about 890 miles west-southwest of the Azores. It
is expected to break up in the next day. In the Pacific, there’s
an area of disturbed weather 500 miles south of Manzanillo,
Mexico, that has a 20 percent chance of becoming a tropical
system in the next five days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  