-- Tropical Storm Karen to Bring Rainfall, Floods to Gulf Coast
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n   a n d   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2013-10-04T09:19:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tropical-storm-karen-to-bring-flooding-rain-to-u-s-gulf-coast.html
Tropical Storm Karen may bring more
than 8 inches (20 centimeters) of rain, isolated tornadoes and
power outages to the U.S.  Gulf Coast , where it is expected to go
ashore over the weekend, forecasters said.  Karen, with top sustained winds of 60 miles (97 kilometers)
per hour, was about 295 miles south of the mouth of the
Mississippi River, moving northwest at 10 mph, according to a
National Hurricane Center  advisory  at 4 a.m. New York time. The
storm may re-intensify over the weekend.  The center’s  tracking map  forecasts Karen will make
landfall as a tropical storm near the Florida-Alabama line
tomorrow. The system may drive tides 3 to 5 feet above normal
from the Mississippi to Mobile Bay, Alabama.  “It’s obviously the most exciting storm we’ve had this
year in terms of U.S. impacts,” said Michael Schlacter, founder
of Weather 2000 Inc. in New York. “It’s almost on the cusp of
being a hurricane. The fact is, we can have a true hurricane
right in the heart of the  Gulf of Mexico .”  A storm becomes a hurricane when its top winds reach 74
mph, and if one gets into the Gulf, it can affect U.S. and
Mexican oil and natural gas operations. The  region is home  to 23
percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6 percent of gas output and
more than 45 percent of petroleum refining capacity, according
to the Energy Department.  Gulf Evacuations  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  were curbing
energy production in the Gulf yesterday. Companies including  BP
Plc (BP/) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  began evacuating
workers from operations in the storm’s path.  A  hurricane watch , meaning storm conditions may arrive in
two days, was posted from Grand Isle, Louisiana, to west of
Destin, Florida. A tropical-storm warning is in effect from
Grand Isle to the mouth of the Pearl River on the Louisiana-Mississippi Line.  New Orleans , the coast from Grand Isle to Morgan City,
Louisiana, Lake Maurepas, Lake Pontchartrain and the area from
Destin to Indian Pass, Florida, are under a storm watch.  As much as 7.8 inches of rain may fall across coastal
Alabama and Florida, according to the U.S. Weather Prediction
Center in College Park, Maryland. There’s a chance the storm
could also touch off tornadoes, especially on its eastern side,
said Bob Smerbeck, an expert senior meteorologist at  AccuWeather
Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.  Karen is expected to drop heavy rain on Mexico’s Yucatan
Peninsula and on western Cuba, according to the center.  Workers Recalled  The  Federal Emergency Management Agency  recalled workers
furloughed by the government shutdown to help prepare for Karen,
said  Jay Carney , a White House spokesman.  Karen has encountered wind shear, which has exposed its
core, according to a forecast analysis by Michael Brennan, a
senior hurricane specialist at the center. Shear is when winds
blow at varying speeds or directions at different altitudes.
That can tear at the structure a tropical system needs to
maintain strength.  “The satellite appearance of Karen remains less than
impressive,” Brennan wrote. “Despite these negative factors,
Karen continues to maintain its intensity.”  It may strengthen slightly before weakening as it nears the
coast. It may still be close to  hurricane strength  by then,
Brennan wrote.  Smerbeck said the shear may be enough to keep Karen from
“blasting into a full blown hurricane” as it nears land.  Tracking where a storm goes is much easier than predicting
its intensity, Schlacter said. Karen might encounter more shear
and weaken quickly, or hit an eddy of warm water and flourish,
he said.  After Karen goes ashore, it is likely to track up the
eastern side of the Appalachian Mountains, bringing heavy rains
to the region, Smerbeck said. The rain may reach the cities of
the U.S. Northeast next week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  