-- RRE Australia Property Fund Targets Simon, Derwent, Stockland
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2013-10-03T22:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/rre-australia-property-fund-targets-simon-derwent-stockland.html
Resources Real Estate Global Property
Securities (Australia) will invest in U.S. mall owners, European
office landlords and Australian warehouse and housing developers
with its new fund.  RRE Global Property prefers the  two biggest  U.S.-based mall
operators --  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  and  Simon Property
Group Inc. (SPG)  -- and U.K. developer  Derwent London Plc (DLN) , John Snowden, joint portfolio manager, said. It also likes
Australia’s biggest industrial landlord,  Goodman Group (GMG) ,
diversified developer  Stockland (SGP)  and  Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) , Japan’s
largest developer, he said.  The fund is seeking as much as A$300 million ($282 million)
from Australian investors over the next two years, the company
said earlier this week. The manager wants to take advantage of a
revival in U.S. and European retail sales, an Australian housing
recovery and rising rents and falling vacancies in Asian
commercial properties, Snowden said.  “While we like broad subsectors, we are focusing on
individual companies within those,” Snowden said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “There’s significant appetite from
investors, so over the next couple of years, we believe A$200
million to A$300 million is achievable.”  The open-ended fund, a joint venture between Resource Real
Estate, a unit of New York-based  Resource America Inc. (REXI) , and
Brisbane-based Channel Capital, will seek to raise the funds
from institutional and “sophisticated” investors, and will
invest them as they’re received, Snowden said.  RRE also plans to introduce a global property securities
fund in the U.S. next year, Snowden said. Hong Kong, Singapore
and Japan are also attractive markets in which to raise capital,
he said.  The Australian fund will begin investor roadshows and
capital raising in the second half of October, Snowden, who will
run the vehicle in partnership with Scott Crowe in the U.S.,
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  