-- Rupee Gains Most in 2 Weeks as U.S. Shutdown Damps Dollar Demand
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-10-03T11:45:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/rupee-gains-most-in-2-weeks-as-u-s-shutdown-damps-dollar-demand.html
India’s rupee strengthened the most
in two weeks as U.S. lawmakers’ failure to resolve a budget
impasse damped demand for the dollar.  The Bloomberg Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback
against 10 major counterparts, fell for a fifth day after
President  Barack Obama  said yesterday he was “exasperated”
with Republican lawmakers while House Speaker  John Boehner  said
Obama refused to negotiate in a meeting with Congressional
leaders. India’s benchmark S&P BSE  Sensex (SENSEX)  Index of shares
climbed 2 percent today as exchange data showed global funds
bought a net $2 billion of the nation’s stocks last month.  “The dollar is taking a hit due to the U.S. shutdown and
that is helping the exchange rate,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a
trader at  Development Credit Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “Equities are
also positive and this is helping the rupee,” fueling optimism
capital inflows will increase, he said.  The rupee advanced 1.2 percent from Oct. 1 to 61.74 per
dollar in Mumbai, the biggest gain since Sept. 19, according to
prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. Against the euro,
the rupee rose 0.7 percent today to 83.9958. Financial markets
in Mumbai were shut yesterday for a public holiday.  The rupee’s one-month implied volatility, a measure of
expected moves in the  exchange rate  used to price options, fell
15 basis points from yesterday to 15.09 percent.  One-month onshore rupee forwards climbed 1.2 percent to
62.29 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts jumped 1.5 percent to 62.32. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  