-- Russia Rounds Up Sochi Games Migrant Workers, Rights Group Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-10-03T17:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/russia-rounds-up-sochi-games-migrant-workers-rights-group-says.html
Russia  has detained hundreds of
migrants in the Black Sea resort of Sochi, many of whom helped
to build facilities for the 2014 Winter Olympics,  Human Rights
Watch  said.  Since early last month, Russian officials have rounded up
the workers for alleged violations of migration or employment
rules, the New York-based human rights group said today in an e-mailed statement. Many have been kept in “arbitrary and
inhuman” conditions and some expelled from Russia, it said.  “It’s outrageous for the migrant workers who helped to
build Sochi’s shiny new Olympic venues to be herded into
detention and deported,” said Jane Buchanan, associate director
for Europe and Central Asia. Ilya Djous, a spokesman for Russian
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak, who’s in charge of Olympic
preparations, said by phone that there haven’t been any “mass
violations” of labor or migration rules.  Russia stages the competition in February and has spent
about $50 billion, making these the most expensive  Winter Games .
The project has included road building and a train service to
connect the coastal hub to be used for the opening ceremony and
ice skating events and the mountains that will host the skiing
and downhill competitions.  Construction workers are being exploited and cheated out of
their wages, Human Rights Watch said in February. Some employers
demanded 12-hour shifts with few days off, withheld passports
and work permits and refused to pay promised salaries, the group
said.  President  Vladimir Putin  has sought to attract large
international events, including the 2018 soccer  World Cup  and
last year’s Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  