-- Russian Embassy Staff in Tripoli Evacuated After Attack
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-03T15:49:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/russian-embassy-staff-in-tripoli-evacuated-after-attack.html
Russia  evacuated its embassy staff
from  Libya  after armed militants attacked the country’s
diplomatic compound in Tripoli.  Russian embassy officials and their families crossed safely
into  Tunisia  today, Russia’s Foreign Ministry said in a
statement on its  website . All but a handful of senior diplomats
who will remain in Tunisia to maintain ties with Tripoli will
return to Moscow tomorrow, the ministry said.  The decision was taken after the North African nation’s
authorities told the Russian ambassador that Libya wasn’t
“currently able to guarantee the protection and security of the
Russian embassy and recommends its staff to leave the diplomatic
mission,” ministry’s spokesman Alexander Lukashevich said.  The attack came in revenge for the killing of a Libyan
officer by a Russian woman now under arrest, according to the
ministry. Libya has witnessed assaults on embassies and
diplomats of various countries including the murder of U.S.
ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans in Benghazi
on Sept. 11, 2012.  Intruders entered the compound and were repelled by the
embassy’s guards and Libyan forces, the Russian ministry said.
No embassy staff were hurt during the clashes, Hashim Bishar,
commander of the Tripoli Supreme Security Committee, said in an
interview today. One of the attackers was killed and four were
wounded, the  Associated Press  reported, citing Libyan officials.  Russia lost billions of dollars in arms and civilian
contracts after the overthrow in 2011 of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . It has resumed cooperation with the post-Qaddafi
government by offering to train military personnel and to
develop energy ties.  Russia’s embassy experienced a similar attack in February
2012 by Libyans protesting Russian support for Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  