-- Saudi Aramco Cuts November Light Crude Offsets to U.S., Asia
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a   a n d   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2013-10-03T16:02:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/saudi-aramco-cuts-november-light-crude-formulas-for-u-s-asia.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest crude exporter, cut differentials used in determining
the official selling prices for its light grades to customers in
 Asia  and the U.S. for November.  The state-owned producer, known as  Saudi Aramco , reduced
the monthly premium for Arab Light crude to Asia by 20 cents a
barrel, to $3.20 more than the average of Oman and Dubai grades,
the  Persian Gulf  benchmarks, it said today in an e-mailed
statement. Aramco raised the premium for Arab Medium crude to
Asia, by 10 cents a barrel, to $1.30 a barrel.  Buyers had expected the Light crude premium for shipments
to Asia to rise by 5 cents a barrel to $3.45, according to a
survey of five refiners in  Japan ,  South Korea  and  India  today.
The increase in the Arab Medium premium met the expectations of
the refiners surveyed. Refiners use the monthly prices to help
forecast fuel-processing margins, a factor in deciding how much
of a country’s crude they buy in successive months.  Aramco narrowed the premium for Light crude shipments to
the U.S. by 20 cents a barrel, to 75 cents more than the Argus
Sour Crude Index. It cut differentials for all grades to
Northwest Europe and the Mediterranean region.  Sidi Kerir Prices  The  differential  for Arab Light from the Egyptian port of
Sidi Kerir was cut by $1.15 a barrel to a discount of 75 cents a
barrel to the Brent futures weighted average, or BWAVE,
published by the  Intercontinental Exchange , said two traders who
received the notice, asking not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Prices of all four crude grades from Sidi Kerir were 55
cents more than those shipped from  Ras Tanura  in the Persian
Gulf for customers in the Mediterranean, compared with 45 cents
for this month, they said.  Persian Gulf oil producers such as  Saudi Arabia  sell most
of their crude under long-term contracts to refiners. Most of
the region’s state oil companies price their oil at a premium or
discount to a benchmark.  The following table gives differentials for the regions
into which Aramco sells in relation to benchmark prices, the
month-on-month change and the degrees of gravity as defined by
the  American Petroleum Institute . Prices are in U.S. dollars a
barrel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net ;
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  