-- SEC High-Speed Site, Swaps Limbo, Secret Data: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/sec-high-speed-site-swaps-limbo-secret-data-compliance.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission plans to unveil a public website next week that will
allow it to publish data, research and analysis using the type
of robust market data exploited by high-frequency trading firms.  The site will share some of the agency’s research into
topics such as strategies that cancel a high-percentage of
orders, which can give the appearance of false liquidity, SEC
Chairman Mary Jo White said yesterday at a speech in Washington.
It also will allow users to explore trading-activity patterns in
“easy-to-read charts and graphs,” she said, according to
prepared remarks for the Security Traders Association’s market
structure conference.  The SEC’s effort is meant to inject data-driven analysis
into complaints that technology has given some sophisticated
traders an unfair advantage. The regulator has worked to improve
its understanding of market behavior after taking more than four
months to explain the May 2010 flash crash, when about $862
billion in U.S. equity value was wiped out in minutes before
share prices recovered.  The SEC’s data-mining effort was boosted by its acquisition
of Midas, an acronym for Market Information Data Analytics
System. The agency acquired Midas last year from high-frequency
trading firm and technology vendor Tradeworx Inc.  White said in April that the SEC needed to bring a “sense
of urgency” to answering whether high-frequency trading, dark
pools and the proliferation of complex order types harm retail
investors or create an uneven playing field.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Swaps Platforms in Limbo as CFTC Closed on Deadline Day  European Union attempts to win exemptions from U.S. rules
for swaps trading platforms scheduled to take effect yesterday
have been hampered by the partial shutdown of the American
government.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services chief, was
unable to broker a deal with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission ahead of a budget standoff that’s left many
government offices shuttered.  Barnier said in an interview yesterday that he remained
confident about reaching a “definitive agreement.” What is
required is “to confirm and clarify,” a broader deal reached
by the Commission and CFTC in July.  The CFTC is overseeing the new platforms as part of an
effort required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to bring greater
competition and transparency to swaps trading.  Gary Gensler , the CFTC’s chairman, earlier held firm on the
deadline, planned for yesterday, for swaps execution facilities,
or Sefs, to register with regulators, while the agency has
granted temporary delays related to some other aspects of the
swaps rules.  Barnier’s spokeswoman  Chantal Hughes  described the
situation as “problematic” because American rules on Sef
registration were expected to enter into force yesterday. She
said while there is no technical contact, there is contact at
“more senior political levels.”  Barnier wrote to Gensler this week urging the U.S. to delay
the registration requirements until March. Hughes said Gensler
hasn’t yet replied.  Calls to the CFTC yesterday went through to an automated
answering service.  Separately, the  CFTC won’t produce  public reports such as
Cotton on Call, Commitment of Traders, and the Bank
Participation Report during the government shutdown.  Compliance with all required filings to the CFTC remains in
place.  Courts  U.S. Asks Spy Court to Deny Tech Firms’ Bid to Release Data  The U.S. asked the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court
to deny a bid by technology companies including  Microsoft Inc. (MSFT) ,
Google Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to release more data on the kinds
of national security requests they receive from the government.  “The information that the companies seek to disclose is
classified,” Justice Department lawyers wrote in court papers
filed with the secret court on Sept. 30 and posted yesterday on
the court website. “The disclosures would risk revealing the
government’s collection capabilities as they presently exist and
as they develop in the future.”  The companies are seeking the court’s approval to disclose
aggregate data on requests the U.S. makes under national
security rules. They currently aren’t authorized to break out
the number of requests they get for user data under national
security statutes, as opposed to inquiries by  law enforcement .  The Google case is In re motion for declaratory judgment of
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s First Amendment right to publish aggregate
information about FISA orders, 13-03, U.S. Foreign Intelligence
Foreign Surveillance Court (Washington).  Beanie Baby Creator Pleads Guilty to Swiss Bank Tax Dodge  H. Ty Warner, creator of Beanie Babies plush toys, pleaded
guilty to failing to pay taxes on money he hid from the U.S. in
a Swiss bank account.  Warner, who was charged with a single count of  tax evasion 
last month, entered his plea yesterday before U.S. District
Judge Charles P. Kocoras in  Chicago .  He agreed to pay a civil penalty of almost $53.6 million.
Tax evasion is punishable by as long as five years in prison. He
also faces a fine of as much as $250,000. Sentencing is
scheduled for Jan. 15.  Since 2009, the U.S. has prosecuted about 70 U.S. taxpayers
and 30 bankers, lawyers and advisers in a crackdown on offshore
tax evasion. The sole owner of  TY Inc. , which he founded in
1985, Warner held the highest account balance of the taxpayers
prosecuted in the crackdown.  He admitted to failing to report $3.2 million in income on
a secret  UBS AG (UBSN)  account that held as much as $93.6 million.  In 2009, Warner tried to avoid prosecution through the IRS
Offshore Voluntary Disclosure Program, according to his lawyer,
Gregory Scandaglia. He was denied entry.  “This is an unfortunate situation that Mr. Warner has been
trying to resolve for several years now,” Scandaglia said in a
statement when the charge was announced. “Mr. Warner accepts
full responsibility for his actions with this plea agreement.”  Since 1995, Warner has donated almost $140 million in cash
and plush toys to charities and organizations.  The case is U.S. v. Warner, 13-cr-00731, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  Wells Fargo Sued by New York Over Mortgage-Servicing Accord  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was sued by New York state over the
bank’s failure to uphold terms of a $25 billion mortgage-servicing settlement, state Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
said.  Wells Fargo and  Bank of America  were accused by
Schneiderman’s office of violating the national settlement,
under which five of the country’s largest mortgage servicers
promised to reform foreclosure and loan-modification practices.  Bank of America Corp.  has agreed to changes aimed at
bringing it into compliance with the deal, Schneiderman said
yesterday at a press conference in Manhattan.  In 2012, a coalition of 49 states and the U.S. reached the
national settlement with Wells Fargo, Bank of America,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)  in an effort
to combat mortgage-servicing abuses.  The suit, filed yesterday in federal court in Washington,
asks the court to enforce the settlement upon Wells Fargo, which
Schneiderman said is one of the most difficult banks for
distressed homeowners to deal with.  Vickee Adams, a spokeswoman for Wells Fargo, said Oct. 1 in
an e-mailed statement that “if true, it is very disappointing
that the New York attorney general continues to pursue his
course, given our commitment to the terms of the national
mortgage settlement.”  “Wells Fargo is proud of its track record of providing
important relief to borrowers in New York and nationwide,” she
said. The bank has helped families “maintain homeownership with
more than 880,000 modifications nationwide and 26,000 in New
York over the last four years,” Adams said.  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, said yesterday the
bank was pleased to resolve the issues raised by Schneiderman’s
office without litigation.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , 12-cv-00361,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  Interviews  Schwab’s Sonders Says So Far Shutdown is a ‘Big Yawn’  Liz Ann Sonders, chief investment strategist with  Charles
Schwab Corp. (SCHW) , says markets are so far disregarding the
government shutdown.  Sonders said it may be a function of the market having
become immune to political dysfunction, the  Federal Reserve 
deciding not to taper, or a belief that the shutdown won’t last
long. Sonders talked with Bloomberg’s Vonnie Quinn and Peggy
Collins on  Bloomberg Radio ’s “The Hays Advantage.”  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings/Executive Pay  Corporate Pay Overhaul Sought by U.K. Accounting Regulator  The U.K.’s accounting regulator said it may overhaul rules
for corporate pay and introduce measures to make it easier to
seize executive bonuses.  The  Financial Reporting Council  may propose changes to the
U.K. Corporate Governance Code that would also restrict who can
serve as a non-executive director on remuneration committees.
The proposals follow U.K. legislation on the approval of
executive pay, which went into force Oct. 1.  The FRC said it will look at bonus clawback arrangements,
executives sitting as non-executives on peer remuneration
committees, and steps to take when pay isn’t agreed on by
majority vote.  Industry groups can offer their views on the changes and no
new rules would take effect before October 2014, the FRC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  