-- SEC’s White Says Lawmakers Should Respect Agency’s Independence
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-10-03T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/sec-s-white-says-lawmakers-should-respect-agency-s-independence.html
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Chairman Mary Jo White said lawmakers left the agency
“no room” for independent judgment when they mandated rules
related to mining safety and conflict minerals.  Those legislative directives “seem more directed at
exerting societal pressure on companies to change behavior,
rather than to disclose financial information that primarily
informs investment decisions,” White said in remarks prepared
for a speech today at Fordham Law School in New York. “I must
question, as a policy matter, using the federal securities laws
and the SEC’s powers of mandatory disclosure to accomplish these
goals.”  The SEC has faced court challenges of rules mandated by the
2010 Dodd-Frank Act related to minerals originating in the
Democratic Republic of the Congo and a requirement that oil and
gas companies disclose payments made to foreign governments,
which a court voided in July.  “To my mind, the SEC achieves the best results and best
fulfills its mission, when it uses its expertise, acts
independently, and defends that independence against all
comers,” White said. “It is a simple principle. And as long as
I am chair, I will be guided by it.”  Judges also should respect the agency’s independence and
its ability to reach appropriate settlements with securities law
violators, she said. The agency’s settlements came under
increased scrutiny after U.S. Judge Jed Rakoff rejected a
proposed agreement with Citigroup Inc. in part because the bank
didn’t admit to any misconduct.  White, who took over the agency’s helm in April, has since
shifted the policy of not requiring admissions of wrongdoing,
saying she will require them in certain cases. Still, she said
judges should defer to the agency’s expertise.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  