-- Serbia and IMF Working on Plan to Fix Finances, Cut Debt
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-03T09:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/serbia-and-imf-working-on-plan-to-fix-finances-cut-debt.html
Serbia  is working on a plan with the
 International Monetary Fund  to trim its fiscal gap by as much as
1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) by 2016 to assuage investors
and stop its  credit rating  from sliding deeper into junk.  Finance Minister Lazar Krstic said talks with an IMF
mission in Belgrade this week “started in a positive manner”
and a “wider negotiating mission” may return in the near
future.  The Fund refused to start talks on a possible aid deal
with Belgrade in May when it said this year’s budget shortfall
could jump to as much as 8.3 percent of gross domestic product
unless measures were taken.  After two recessions in three years undercut  tax revenue 
and drove the fiscal shortfall wider, the biggest former
Yugoslav republic is trying to right its public finances and
rein in rising borrowing costs. It needs 4 billion euros in
financing by mid-2014, equivalent to 13 percent of GDP, to
finance the budget and service debts.  “In order to stabilize public debt by 2016 we need to have
fiscal consolidation of around 1.5 percent of GDP a year,”
Krstic said in an interview yesterday. The savings will be
achieved “through structural reforms” in public
administration, state-run companies, health and education and
financing. They may not necessarily translate into an equivalent
drop in the fiscal deficit, Krstic said.  Yields on Serbian 10-year Eurobonds maturing in 2021 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 6.587 percent
on yesterday, compared with 4.8 percent in January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of insuring the debt with
five-year credit-default swaps rose two points to 374 yesterday.  Maneuvering Space  Krstic, a former McKinsey & Co. associate principal and
Yale graduate, assumed his post last month after Prime Minister
 Ivica Dacic  revised the 2013 budget and revamped his cabinet.
Krstic said Serbia’s government “still has some maneuvering
space” before seeking an IMF deal. He said the government will
unveil measures to trim the deficit on Oct. 7.  Serbian deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vucic said in
Belgrade today that the IMF wanted Serbia to save 800 million
euros in the next two years and cut the deficit by 2.25 percent
to 2.5 percent over the same period.  The government is considering various borrowing options to
keep financing costs under control and Krstic, who took office a
month ago, is keen on assuring investors that “we will
consolidate public finances,” he said.  The possibilities include a $1 billion Eurobond, domestic
borrowing or a loan from the  United Arab Emirates  of as much as
$3 billion, which would help replace some old expensive debts,
he said. Selling a Eurobond, the fourth since September 2012,
won’t be cheap, Krstic said.  “Fed tapering, capital outflows from  emerging markets  over
recent weeks, weaker bond demand and a shift from bonds to
equity makes our borrowing more expensive,” Krstic said. He is
considering different markets and currencies, weighing future
foreign exchange risk against anticipated macroeconomic
developments. Plans are taking into account “new market
realities,” he said.  The government’s plan to narrow the deficit and public debt
could convince bond investors to take lower yields, while also
keeping Serbia’s credit ratings intact, Krstic said. The country
is rated BB-by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch, while Moody’s
assigned non-investment grade B1 rating to Serbia’s local and
foreign-currency bonds on July 14.  The government is currently cutting discretionary spending
to cut the budget gap to 4.7 percent of GDP, Krstic said. The
IMF says that, even with consolidation measures, the shortfall
will be 6.5 percent of annual output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  