-- Serbia Seeks New IMF Embrace as Bond Unloved: East Europe Credit
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-04T08:10:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/serbia-seeks-new-imf-embrace-as-bond-unloved-east-europe-credit.html
Seven months after  Serbia  sidestepped
International Monetary Fund support by selling foreign-currency
bonds, the looming reduction in U.S. stimulus is driving
sentiment lower and the nation back into IMF talks.  Investors demanded 433 basis points, or 4.33 percentage
points, of  extra yield  to hold Serbia’s dollar bonds instead of
Treasuries yesterday, compared with 345 for Nigeria, which has
the same BB- junk rating from Standard & Poor’s, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The spread for Hungarian dollar
notes, ranked one level higher at S&P, stood at 330 basis
points, the data show.  Serbia is taking steps to curb its fiscal deficit, forecast
by the IMF to reach 8.3 percent of gross domestic product this
year, by as much as 1.6 billion euros ($2.2 billion) by 2016 to
assuage investors and reach a stand-by loan agreement with the
Washington-based lender. The Balkan nation’s budget and current-account shortfalls leave it vulnerable to foreign sentiment as
the Federal Reserve weighs when to start paring stimulus.  “There is a credibility issue that needs to be addressed
and an IMF program would help with that,” Agata Urbanska-Giner,
a London-based economist at HSBC Holdings Plc, said by e-mail
yesterday. “The noise seems positive now but the bottom line is
that Serbia is not signing any IMF deal today.”  Talks Restart  The Fund refused to start talks on a possible aid deal with
Belgrade in May after the nation missed fiscal commitments. The
negotiations restarted this week “in a positive manner,”
Serbia’s Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, a former McKinsey & Co.
associate principal who assumed his post last month, said in an
interview two days ago.  Serbia’s economy still bears the scars from wars,
sanctions, hyperinflation and currency devaluations that
occurred in the 1990s under former President Slobodan Milosevic,
whose Socialist Party is now led by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic.
The government will start accession talks with the European
Union in January, while its former Yugoslav peers Slovenia and
 Croatia  are already in.  The country, whose budget gap will be wider than any of the
28 EU countries in 2013 if no measures are taken, needs to
borrow about 4 billion euros by June to refinance maturing debt
and cover the deficit, Krstic said. Of that amount, 2.6 billion
euros represent maturing debt securities, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  ‘Strongly Dependent’  “Cooperation with the IMF would be desirable,” Juraj Kotian, co-chief east European economist at Erste Group Bank AG
in Vienna, said in an e-mail Oct. 2. “Serbia is the only
country from the region where the current account deficit has
not narrowed sufficiently, so the country still remains strongly
dependent on foreign capital inflows.”  The Balkan nation’s economy is reviving after two
recessions in three years, buoyed by rising exports and farm
output. The central bank forecasts gross domestic product will
accelerate from 2 percent in 2013 to 2.5 percent next year.  Economic growth, combined with rising remittances from
abroad, will help narrow the current-account deficit by three
percentage points to about 7.5 percent of GDP, Erste estimates.
The IMF in a July Article IV report  forecast  the shortfall at
8.7 percent of GDP, compared with a projected surplus in
 Hungary .  Fed Lifeline  The yield on Serbia’s 2021 dollar bond reached a 15-month
high of 7.46 percent on Sept. 10, almost 300 basis points above
its level when U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
said the central bank may gradually withdraw from bond purchases
which have been used to stimulate the economy. It has since
fallen 86 basis points after the Fed surprised investors by
delaying tapering, underscoring Serbia’s vulnerability to shifts
in global risk appetite.  “I believe the Fed gave Serbia a lifeline by delaying
tapering,” said Abbas Ameli-Renani, a strategist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc in  London , who has an “overweight”
recommendation for Serbian 2021 dollar bonds over Hungarian debt
of the same maturity. “Serbia now has three-month window to
issue dollar debt”  While the country could raise funds without an IMF accord,
such sales would come at a “hefty” cost because above-market
yields would be needed to lure investors, according to Ameli-Renani. Restarting talks with the IMF “will likely build a
bridge toward final rapprochement” and government concessions
such as a cut in public wages may lead to an agreement in the
first quarter, he said.  Consolidation Ready  Serbia is ready for “fiscal consolidation” amounting to
about 1.5 percentage points of GDP per year to stabilize its
debt by 2016, Finance Minister Krstic said. The savings would be
achieved via “structural reforms” in public administration,
state-run companies, health, education and financing, and won’t
necessarily translate into an equivalent drop in the budget
deficit, he said.  In addition to selling a $1 billion Eurobond, the country’s
refinancing options include domestic borrowing or a loan from
the United Arab Emirates of as much as $3 billion to replace
more expensive debt, according to Krstic. Selling a Eurobond,
the fourth since September 2012, won’t be cheap, he said.  Serbian dollar bonds yielded 61 basis points more than
Hungarian debt on Oct. 3, whereas as recently as June 6 the
 spread  was negative, according to JPMorgan EMBI indexes. The
 surcharge  over dollar debt issued by Poland, the biggest economy
among the 11 eastern EU members, widened by 23 basis points over
the same period to 274 basis points..  “Serbia falls into the vulnerable category,” HSBC’s
Urbanska-Giner said. “The twin-deficits label still applies and
for all countries with that label, tapering is a big story.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  