-- Services Growth Cooled Before U.S. Federal Shutdown: Economy
-- B y   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-10-03T20:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/services-growth-cooled-ahead-of-u-s-federal-shutdown-economy.html
Service industries expanded in
September at a slower pace than forecast as more corporate
 purchasing managers  grew apprehensive about the  U.S. economy 
leading up to the government shutdown.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing
index  dropped to a three-month low of 54.4 from the prior
month’s 58.6, the Tempe, Arizona-based group said today. While
readings above 50 indicate expansion, the September figure was
below the lowest forecast in a Bloomberg survey of economists.
Another report showed fewer Americans than projected filed
applications for  unemployment insurance  last week.  The September decline left the services measure close to
its 54.7 average since the end of 2011, a period that
corresponds with economic growth of around 2 percent. Corporate
plans to expand are at risk of being put on hold amid budget
gridlock in  Washington  that poses a risk to the expansion.  “We’re still seeing positive growth, it’s just not
suggesting that there’s underlying momentum in the pipeline to
propel us beyond the 2 percent growth range,” said  Lindsey Piegza , chief economist at Sterne Agee & Lynch Inc. in  Chicago ,
whose services index projection of 55 was among the lowest in
the Bloomberg survey. “Businesses are very hesitant to invest
in additional employees.”  Stocks Drop  Stocks fell for a second day on the drop in the services
index and on growing concern that the political impasse will
damage the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased
0.9 percent, the biggest drop in a month, to 1,678.66 at the
close in  New York .  The Labor Department’s report on applications for
 unemployment benefits  showed employers were maintaining staff
counts in the days leading up to the government shutdown.
Jobless claims rose by 1,000 to 308,000 in the week ended Sept.
28. The median forecast of 50 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
called for a rise to 315,000.  The most prominent data report issued by the government --
the employment figures -- won’t be issued tomorrow as initially
scheduled because of the shutdown. An alternative date for the
September figures hasn’t been rescheduled, the department said
in a statement.  Another report today showed consumer confidence retreated
for the first time in four weeks as Americans’ view of the
economy deteriorated to the lowest level since May. The
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 29.4 in the week
ended Sept. 29 from minus 28.1.  Economy Views  A measure of attitudes about the economy slumped as
lawmakers failed to resolve their differences over the nation’s
budget, culminating this week in the first partial shutdown of
the government in 17 years.  Service industries  in other parts of the world are showing
signs of improvement. In the U.K., they expanded in September,
capping the best quarter for the industries in 16 years. Euro-area services grew more than initially estimated and a Chinese
gauge rose to a six-month high, separate reports showed.  The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists
for the ISM non-manufacturing index was 57. While the drop was
the biggest since November 2008, the August reading was the
highest in at least five years. The figure includes industries
that range from utilities and retail to health care, housing and
finance and make up about 90 percent of the economy.  “There’s still pretty good indication that there’s still
growth going on,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the survey, said
in a call with reporters following the release.  Business Activity  The decline in September was due to slumps in measures of
business activity and employment. Some 17 percent of purchasing
managers reported a slowdown in business, the most in three
months.  The ISM’s measure of  new orders  fell to 59.6 in September,
matching the second-highest level since February 2011, from 60.5
in August.  The ISM’s manufacturing index, released earlier this week,
unexpectedly rose to 56.2, the strongest since April 2011, from
55.7 a month earlier.  “With manufacturing continuing on the strength of this
upward movement, it may very well pull services along,” Nieves
said.  An increase this year in homebuilding has boosted service
providers such as home-improvement retailers, furniture chains
and real estate companies. Producers of furniture, appliances
and building materials have also benefited.  Borrowing Costs  Further progress depends in part on the outlook for
borrowing costs. The rate on 30-year  mortgage rates  averaged
4.32 percent in the week ended Sept. 26, the lowest in two
months. It reached a two-year high of 4.58 percent in the week
ended Aug. 22.  Car sales have been another bright spot in the economy. All
four General Motors Co. brands posted double-digit retail sales
increases in the third quarter, Kurt McNeil, vice president of
U.S. sales, said on an Oct. 1 sales and revenue call.  “The recent drop in jobless claims signals that we should
see further acceleration in payrolls,” McNeil said. “Add to
that an accommodative monetary policy, a recovery in housing
markets, low energy prices, and rising household wealth and it’s
clear that we should be in good shape going forward.”  At the same time, an extended shutdown of the government
poses a risk. The U.S. government furloughed about 800,000
employees and shuttered government offices, national parks and
museums after Congress failed to pass a continuing resolution to
fund federal operations in the near-term.  Ford, GM  “Any type of disruption in government operations would
adversely affect  government spending , business and  consumer
confidence , and financial markets,” Jenny Lin, a senior
economist at Ford Motor Co., told reporters and analysts.  On this, GM and Ford agreed.  “If this thing drags out a couple of weeks, it starts to
have more impact on customer sentiment and it starts to have a
bigger impact on business,” said GM’s McNeil.  A partial federal shutdown will cost the U.S. at least $300
million a day in lost economic output at the start, according to
Lexington, Massachusetts-based IHS Inc. While that’s a fraction
of the country’s $15.7 trillion economy, the effects probably
will grow over time as consumers and businesses defer purchases
and expansion plans.  What’s more, Congress has yet to raise the nation’s $16.7
trillion debt ceiling. The Treasury projects that the U.S. will
exhaust its measures to stay under the limit no later than Oct.
17.  “Let’s assume that the government shutdown is brief and we
sail through the debt ceiling, then I think it matters not much
at all,” said Guy Berger, an economist at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “A more realistic case is that the
shutdown is a little longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  