-- Shelton Soars as 4th Russia Well Starts Flowing: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2013-10-03T11:31:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/shelton-soars-as-4th-russia-well-starts-flowing-stockholm-mover.html
Shelton Petroleum AB (SHELB)  advanced to its
highest price in at least ten months in Stockholm trading after
the oil-exploration company said flows from a fourth well in
 Russia  were much higher than at previous wells in the field.  Shelton  added as much  as 23 percent to 41 kronor, its
highest level since at least Nov. 20 and steepest intraday
advance since Sept. 17 this year. They rose 22 percent to 40.7
kronor as of 12:25 p.m. local time, with volume at more than
five times the daily average in the past three months.  The company’s fourth well on the Rustamovskoye oil field in
Russia has been taken into production with an initial flow rate
of more than 300 barrels per day, it said in a statement today.
That’s “significantly higher than the field’s previous wells,”
it said. The combined production of Shelton’s Russian and
Ukrainian operations now total some 1,000 barrels per day.  “We have two surrounding fields that also have potential
but focus has been on the Rustamovskoye field and that’s where
we have the immediate focus to increase production,” Shelton
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Karlsson  said in a telephone
interview today. “What’s a lot of fun with this latest well is
that it strengthens our view of the field. All else equal, it
increases the potential to extract reserves from the field.”  Shelton’s Rustamovskoye field, which produces 700 barrels
per day, is the only of its three licenses in Bashkiria in the
Volga-Urals area in Russia that produces oil, Karlsson said. The
company also has a joint venture in Ukraine with oil and gas
companies Ukrnafta and Chornomornaftogaz, he said.  “If we can repeat these results in future drillings, the
company will be able to increase its reserves substantially at
the next reserves update,” the Stockholm-based oil explorer
said in the statement. “Opportunities to successfully develop
its three fields in Bashkiria will increase manifold.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  