-- SoftBank Overtakes MUFG as Japan’s No. 2 Company
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 2013-10-03T08:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/softbank-overtakes-mufg-as-japan-s-no-2-company.html
SoftBank Corp. (9984) , the mobile-phone
company founded by billionaire Masayoshi Son, overtook
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  as the nation’s No. 2
company by market value today.  SoftBank  shares  jumped 4 percent to 7,530 yen at the close
of trading in Tokyo, its highest level since May 17, 2000, just
after the peak of the dot-com bubble. Today’s gain boosted its
market capitalization to 9.04 trillion yen ($92.4 billion), up
from 8.69 trillion yen yesterday, compared to 8.72 trillion yen
for  Japan ’s biggest lender, Mitsubishi UFJ. Shares of the
nation’s largest company,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , are worth 21.55
trillion yen.  “Japanese banks, in a sense, have lost the significance
that they once had as the economy becomes more sophisticated,”
said Amir Anvarzadeh, a manager of Japanese equity sales at BGC
Partners Inc. in Singapore. By contrast, “investors think that
anything Son touches turns to gold and some are even calling him
the  Bill Gates  of Japan.”  Son, who is also SoftBank’s chairman, is forecasting record
domestic earnings this year as he accelerates the addition of
new subscribers and after buying a controlling stake in Sprint,
the third-largest U.S. wireless company, in July for $21.6
billion. Also stoking shares was a report that SoftBank sold
more Apple Inc. new-model iPhones in Japan than NTT DoCoMo Inc.
and KDDI Corp. during the first three days, as well as optimism
over an initial public offering of China’s Alibaba Group Holding
Ltd., in which SoftBank has a stake. Son’s net worth is $14.1
billion, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index.  Gains in SoftBank’s market value means it will also become
the second-most heavily  weighted  stock on Japan’s Topix index,
which tracks 1,744 of Japan’s biggest companies, as of tomorrow.
This may trigger further buying of the stock by passive
investment funds, Anvarzadeh said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  