-- South African Airways Seeks A340 Upgrade Pending New Jets
-- B y   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-04T10:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/south-african-air-seeks-upgrade-of-aging-a340s-pending-new-jets.html
South African Airways Ltd. said it’s
seeking to upgrade the engines of its aging Airbus SAS A340
wide-body fleet to cut fuel costs while it decides between new
long-haul models from the European manufacturer and  Boeing (BA)  Co.  Chief Executive Officer Monwabisi Kalawe held talks last
week on making the jets more efficient as he seeks to end the
state-owned carrier’s losses, he said in an interview. SAA has a
mix of A340 variants, with the upgrade focused on nine of the
newest A340-600s which can seat as many as 317 people and are
powered by  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  Trent engines.  “The engine manufacturers I met with will be coming to do
a pilot on our fleet at the end of October,” Kalawe said
yesterday in Johannesburg, where the airline is based. “If this
pilot works, we could save between one and five percent.”  SAA has yet to decide between Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner and
the rival A350 from Airbus as it moves toward a less fuel hungry
long-haul fleet, Kalawe said. Chief Financial Officer Wolf Meyer
said in July that the carrier had asked manufacturers to tender
for an order for 23 wide-body aircraft for delivery from 2017,
and upgrading the A340s will help limit costs in the interim.  Exactly how many long-range jets the airline will actually
buy hasn’t been decided, Kalawe said, adding that “the figure
will be finalized as part of the network and fleet plan.”  Profit Target  SAA is renewing its fleet as part of a turnaround strategy
aimed at returning to profitability by 2017, after suffering a
1.36 billion-rand ($135 million) loss for the year ended March
2012. The government gave the carrier,  Africa ’s biggest, a 5
billion-rand debt guarantee in October 2012 to ensure it can
borrow from financial markets to support a recovery.  Near-term steps are aimed at cutting costs before new jets
are available. Rolls-Royce, sole engine provider on the A340-600, has developed upgrades to improve  fuel efficiency  by about
1 percent for the latest Trent 500 engines, with a retrofit now
available delivering a further 0.5 to 0.75 percent gain for in-service aircraft. The improvement should generate a saving of
around $200,000 per aircraft per year, the company has said.  SAA also has 12 older A340-200s and -300s in its fleet
which are powered by engines from the CFM International venture
of General Electric Co. and Safran SA of  France .  Single-Aisle Arrivals  The fleet plan includes the introduction of new Airbus A320
narrow-body planes, with the first two of 10 for which financing
has been secured having arrived in July and the rest due by
2017, Kalawe said. Funding for an additional 10 aircraft is
still being sought.  Kalawe is the airline’s third CEO in a year after Siza Mzimela resigned in the wake of a dispute between board members
and the government last October. His successor, Vuyisile Kona,
was suspended in February over unspecified allegations.  The chief said in the interview he expects better financial
results for 2012-2013 fiscal year, though will continue to need
state funds over the next four to five years.  “We have already submitted a request for the amount of
money we need and the Public Enterprises Ministry is currently
considering it and will get back to us on a fair number,” he
said. “In the fourth year we expect to see a profit.”  Currency Pressure  A weakening rand and growing competition in the African
market pose a risk to SAA’s recovery, with Gulf carriers
including Dubai-based Emirates, Qatar Airlines Ltd. and Etihad
Airways of  Abu Dhabi  representing the biggest threat, he said.  “The guys from the  Middle East  have new equipment and a
very low cost structure so they are extremely price
competitive,” Kalawe said.  The rand has declined 15 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in
2013, making it the worst performer of 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. It strengthened 0.4 percent against the
dollar to 9.9922 as of 11:48 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The currency’s performance is crucial to SAA’s path to
profitability, Kalawe said. About 60 percent of the airline’s
bills are dollar-denominated, compared with less than 50 percent
of income, according to CFO Meyer.  SAA flies to 26 countries in Africa, together with 11
destinations outside the continent, according to the carrier’s
spokesman Tlali Tlali. Mergers within the group, which includes
discount unit Mango and SA Express, remain a concept that’s
being explored amid the drive to cut costs, Kalawe said.  At the same time, the company is looking to establish a hub
in either East or West Africa and will reach a decision by mid-2014, he said. SAA faces competition from Ethiopian Airlines
Enterprise and Kenya Airways Ltd., the No. 2 and No. 3 carriers
in sub-Saharan Africa, as it seeks to extend its regional clout.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
 Gordon Bell  at   gbell16@bloomberg.net  