-- Soybeans Futures Rise on Signs Rain Slows U.S. Harvest
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-10-03T15:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/soybeans-futures-rise-on-signs-rain-slows-u-s-harvest.html
Soybean futures advanced for the
second straight day on signs that rain will hinder harvesting in
the U.S., the world’s biggest producer. Wheat climbed to the
highest since June, and corn gained.  As much as 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) of rain in the past 24
hours halted fieldwork in Nebraska and  Minnesota  and as much as
2.5 inches in the next four days will stall collection of the
soybean crop in half of the Midwest,  T-Storm Weather LLC  in
 Chicago  said in a report. As of Sept. 29, the  harvest  trailed
the average in the previous five years, government  data  showed.
Margins for processors rose to the highest in almost four weeks.  “Wet weather slowed planting and low temperatures stunted
crop development in the spring, leaving some end-users in a
lurch trying to fill needs,”  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C
Trading Co. in Fowler,  Indiana , said in a report.  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 0.8 percent to
$12.835 a bushel at 10:50 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Yesterday, the price climbed 0.5 percent. In the third quarter,
the oilseed posted the first gain in a year on supply concerns.  Wheat advanced on speculation that rain will reduce planted
area and production in Ukraine and  Russia , boosting demand for
grain from the U.S., the top exporter.  Eastern Ukraine, Russia’s Volga Valley and the Caucasus
region may see “widespread moderate to locally heavy” rain
through tomorrow, AccuWeather Inc. said in a report.  Ukraine’s winter-wheat planting may be 30 percent less than
the country’s target after record rain last month, the national
weather center in Kiev said on Sept. 27. In Russia, winter grain
sowing may be as low as 13 million hectares, below the intended
area of 16.4 million, the nation’s Grain Union said on the same
day.  Wheat futures for December delivery climbed 1.3 percent to
$6.95 a bushel in Chicago. Earlier, the price reached $6.97, the
highest for a most-active contract since June 24.  Corn futures for December delivery rose 0.4 percent to
$4.4075 a bushel. Yesterday, the price touched $4.35, the lowest
since Aug. 31, 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Patrick McKiernan at 
 pmckiernan@bloomberg.net  