-- Sports Direct Drops After Executives Pare Stakes: London Mover
-- B y   N a t a s h a   D o f f   a n d   R u t h   D a v i d
-- 2013-10-03T16:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/sports-direct-drops-after-executives-pare-stakes-london-mover.html
Sports Direct International Plc (SPD) , the
U.K.’s largest sports retailer, dropped 1.5 percent in London
after company executives sold about 3.9 million shares.  The stock declined 10.5 pence to 698 pence. The shares were
sold by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. at 690 pence apiece,  Bloomberg
News  reported today, citing a person familiar with the process.
They were offered in a range of 683 pence to 690 pence, the
person said, asking not to be named as details weren’t public.  Appleby Trust, which is acting on behalf of  Sports Direct 
executives, said yesterday it would sell the shares to Goldman
Sachs. The bank then sold the shares to investors in the market.
Sports Direct, founded by Mike Ashley, the billionaire owner of
soccer club  Newcastle United , was added to the FTSE 100 Index of
the largest companies on the London Stock Exchange last month
after its share price soared this year.  Today’s fall pared the stock’s advance to 81 percent this
year and gave the Mansfield, England-based company a market
value of 4.18 billion pounds ($6.76 billion).  Of 11 analysts who follow Sports Direct and share their
findings with Bloomberg, eight recommend buying the stock, and
three advise holding. The average 12-month price target for the
stock is 760.71 pence, based on seven estimates, implying a
potential gain of 9 percent.  Companies in  Europe , the Middle East and Africa have raised
about $80 billion in additional share sales this year, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The volumes nearly doubled from
the same period in 2012 as investors return to the region on the
back of strengthening economies and an easing debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natasha Doff in  London  at 
 ndoff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  