-- Stanley Fink’s Hedge-Fund Revival Sours as Losses Mount
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-10-03T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/stanley-fink-s-hedge-fund-revival-sours-as-losses-mount.html
Stanley Fink , who oversaw a 10-fold
increase in  Man Group Plc (EMG) ’s assets under management during his
seven years as chief executive officer, is finding it harder to
keep investors at his latest hedge-fund firm.  Losses and client redemptions have reduced assets at
International Standard Asset Management Ltd.’s main hedge fund
by almost half over the past 18 months to $585 million, Fink,
the firm’s CEO, said in an interview yesterday. London-based
ISAM has responded by changing some of its management, examining
why the fund hasn’t performed as well as expected and increasing
the number of markets it invests in, he said.  “It’s a bit like when you lose a few races in Formula 1,”
said Fink, 56. “You realize your car wasn’t as fast as you
thought so you go back and re-engineer every part. The system is
now very leading edge.”  The ISAM Systematic fund fell 14 percent in the nine months
through September, after declining 17 percent in 2012 and 2.7
percent in 2011, hurt by a lack of the market trends that the
firm relies on to make money, according to a letter sent to
investors this month obtained by  Bloomberg News . Since the end
of 2010, the fund has declined 31 percent, more than three times
the 9.7 percent fall in the Newedge CTA Index, which tracks the
performance of  hedge funds  that use computer algorithms to
profit from trends in asset prices.  Fink says the losses haven’t deterred him from a goal of
building ISAM into a firm managing as much as $5 billion, which
he set after taking the reins five years ago.  “The business is profitable,” he said. “We business-planned for drawdowns, which are, sadly, part of the business.
In a period when performance is not good, there will not be
significant bonuses. Staff are grown-up enough to know that.”  House of Lords  Fink, who sits in the U.K. House of Lords, is also the
former co-treasurer of the country’s jointly ruling
Conservatives and has contributed at least 3.7 million pounds
($6 million) to the political party since 2003, according to
campaign finance disclosures. The U.K. Sunday Times estimates he
has a personal fortune of 130 million pounds.  Fink joined ISAM in 2008 after stepping down a year earlier
from Man Group, the world’s biggest publicly traded hedge-fund
manager, which oversees $52 billion. In February 2010, he teamed
up with Larry Hite, who had been running an earlier version of
what became the ISAM Systematic fund out of his family office.
Hite’s experience buying and selling assets based on signals
from computer models goes back to 1981, when he started Mint
Investment Management Co., according to ISAM’s website.  ISAM had about $200 million of money from outside clients
when it started trading Hite’s investment system in May 2010.  Man Hires  As ISAM grew, the firm hired staff away from London-based
Man Group, including Alexander Lowe, the company’s former head
of product development, and Darren Upton, who oversaw a group of
researchers focused on developing trading models at its flagship
$14 billion AHL Diversified hedge fund. ISAM appointed Upton
chief investment officer this month, replacing Alex Greyserman,
who was named the firm’s chief scientist.  ISAM’s biggest losses in 2013 have come from trading bonds,
which slumped starting in May after U.S. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  began signaling that the central bank
may scale back its asset purchases as the economy improves.  Greyserman said the fund has underperformed because it
targets as much as 50 percent more  volatility  than competitors,
it trades more commodities and it doesn’t invest in “non-trend
strategies,” according to a January client letter posted on the
company’s website.  Trend ‘Mantra’  “The decision to remain pure to the trend-following mantra
has recently proved costly,” Greyserman wrote. “We must accept
that we can experience underperformance during periods of
choppy, directionless markets.”  Trend-following funds have been hurt over the past three
years as  market sentiment  swings from pessimistic to optimistic
based on statements from politicians and perceptions of  Europe ’s
ability to resolve its sovereign debt crisis. Man Group’s AHL
has posted investment losses of 16 percent since 2010 and the
fund’s assets have fallen by $9 billion.  “People say to me ‘Isn’t trend-following dead?’” Fink
said. “I probably remember four or five occasions in my
experience in the fund-management world when people have said
that. In each case, it’s been absolutely wrong, and the industry
tends to roar back when most people have capitulated.”  ISAM, which has 30 employees and manages about $635
million, has addressed its losses by increasing the number of
 futures markets  the systematic fund trades to 85 from 50 at the
beginning of last year and revising the length of time
investments are held.  Currency Trades  The fund has also looked to expand its foreign-exchange
trades beyond bets on how currencies will move against the  U.S.
dollar , Fink said. ISAM should benefit over the long term from
being smaller than competitors like AHL, because it can invest
in more markets and ones that are less liquid, he said.  Man Group’s  stock price  surged more than fourfold during
his tenure as CEO, prompting the Financial Times, the
Independent and other newspapers to label Fink the “godfather”
of the U.K.’s hedge-fund industry. When he stepped down, the
company oversaw $61.7 billion. Man Group bought a stake in
Hite’s Mint Investment in 1984, starting its transformation from
a 200-year-old sugar broker into a hedge-fund firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  