-- U.K. Regulator to Set Payday Lending Rules on Cost to Consumers
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-10-03T07:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-k-regulator-to-set-payday-lending-rules-on-cost-to-consumers.html
U.K. payday lenders will have to
check whether customers can afford loans they provide under new
rules after a government survey found they weren’t fully
compliant with standards designed to protect consumers.  Payday lenders will also have to limit the number of times
the credit can be rolled over to twice and the regulator will be
able to ban advertisements it deems misleading, the  Financial
Conduct Authority  said in an e-mailed  statement  today. The rules
are scheduled for April 1, when the FCA takes over from the
 Office of Fair Trading  in regulating  consumer credit .  A study by the U.K.’s Department for Business, Innovation
and Skills published today found almost a quarter of consumers
said they were put under pressure to extend their loan and about
half said that companies didn’t explain the risks of doing so.
The payday loan market should be reviewed by the  Competition
Commission  over concerns the lenders target people with poor
credit histories and it is difficult to determine the full cost
of loans, the OFT said in June.  “This type of credit must only be offered to those that
can afford it and payday lenders must not be allowed to drain
money from a borrower’s account,” FCA Chief Executive Officer
Martin Wheatley said in the statement.  Payday lenders typically charge high  interest rates  for
small cash sums over shorter periods than a  bank loan . The
industry’s loans cost an average of 25 pounds ($41) per 100
pounds for 30 days, the OFT said in March.  “The industry has failed to self-regulate effectively,”
Consumer Affairs Minister Jo Swinson said in a statement. “We
warned the industry months ago that if it didn’t get its house
in order we would step in. Now the FCA has come out today and
published strong actions which will tackle the problems the
market has failed to address.”  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Simone Meier, Tony Aarons  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  