-- Heathrow Says Fee Cap Risks Investment as Airlines Seek Cut
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-10-03T11:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-k-regulator-says-heathrow-charges-should-rise-with-inflation.html
Heathrow Airport said proposals
capping fees at Europe’s busiest travel hub risk driving away
investors, even as airlines led by British Airways argue that
passengers will desert the hub because of the impact on fares.  Heathrow should be allowed to lift charges by no more than
the rate of inflation as determined by the U.K.’s retail price
index in the five years from next April, down from RPI plus 7.5
percent previously, the Civil Aviation Authority said  today .
Airlines had sought a 9.8 percent annual reduction, it said.  The regulator sets the maximum amount that London’s top
airports -- Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted -- can charge
airlines to use their facilities. While fees drive up ticket
prices, they also underpin investment such as a 3 billion-pound
($4.87 billion) spending plan intended to allow Heathrow to keep
pace with rival hubs Paris Charles de Gaulle and  Frankfurt .  “Heathrow exerts monopoly power over its users,” Willie Walsh, chief executive officer of British Airways parent IAG SA,
said in a statement. “These excessive charges combined with a
complacent management team at Heathrow make an alternative hub
look more attractive and more realistic.”  Heathrow is fighting to remain  London ’s hub airport after
Boris Johnson, the city’s mayor, said he favored a four-runway
facility at the existing Stansted site or at new base in the
Thames estuary. Heathrow, which submitted plans for a third
runway in June delivering extra flights as early as 2025, would
be replaced by a new borough housing 250,000 people.  Credit Profile  The CAA proposal “is the toughest Heathrow has ever
faced,” CEO Colin Matthews said in a statement, adding that it
risks the hub’s competitive position and “the attractiveness of
the U.K. as a center for international investment.”  Heathrow has spent 11 billion pounds over the past 10 years
boosting service standards and upgrading its facilities to
mirror advances in Asia and the Middle East. Its new Terminal 2,
due to open next year, features streamlined check-in zones with
self-service bag drops and shorter walks to gates, giving more
time for shopping.  “In the current climate, most businesses are having to
deliver the same level of service more efficiently and airports
should not be exempt from this economic reality,” Virgin
Atlantic Airways Ltd. CEO Craig Kreeger said in a statement.  The new price cap won’t effect Heathrow’s credit profile,
though it’s likely to trim growth in earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization by about 5 percent annually
from double-digits before, RBC Europe Ltd. analyst  Roger Appleyard  said in an investor note. The airport may choose to
trim its 2.9 billion-pound capital expenditure plans, he said.  ‘Upward Drift’  Initial CAA proposals said prices should be allowed to rise
by no more than RPI minus 1.3 percent. Heathrow had responded by
asking the CAA to allow yearly changes in fees at the RPI
inflation rate plus 4.6 percent.  “Tackling the upward drift in Heathrow’s prices is
essential to safeguard its globally competitive position,”
Deirdre Hutton, the CAA’s chairman, said in the statement. “Our
proposals create a positive climate for further capital
investment, in the passenger interest.”  At London Gatwick, the world’s busiest single-runway
airport, the CAA proposes that prices should be allowed to rise
at 0.5 percent more than RPI on average for a seven-year period,
adopting a plan presented by the hub’s owner.  The CAA said it would retain the power to intervene if, for
example, there are reductions in service quality that harm
passengers’ interests.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , Gatwick’s biggest customer,
said it backed the plan to allow the airport and airlines to
reach agreements within a regulatory framework but was
“disappointed” with the proposed increase in charges.  The CAA said it’s assessing whether Stansted, bought by
Manchester Airport Group this year and the biggest base for
 Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) , should still be regulated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  