-- U.K. Stocks Advance as Investors Weigh U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-03T16:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-k-stocks-advance-as-investors-weigh-u-s-budget-talks.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for the first
time in five days, dragged higher by  BP Plc (BP/) , as investors looked
for progress on ending a budget impasse in the U.S. and a
measure of  China ’s services industries rose to a six-month high.  BP climbed 1.1 percent after persuading an appeals court to
order a review of parts of the settlement over the Gulf of
Mexico oil spill in 2010.  Aviva Plc (AV/)  increased 1.4 percent after
reporting that it received $2.6 billion from the sale of its
U.S. life-insurance and annuities business, more than it had
previously disclosed.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Glencore Xstrata Plc
contributed the most to a retreat by commodity producers.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  added 11.54 points, or 0.2 percent, to
6,449.04 at the close in  London . The equity benchmark fell 2
percent in the past four days as the U.S. federal government
shut down for the first time in 17 years. The broader FTSE All-Share Index climbed 0.1 percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ
Index fell 0.2 percent.  “We’re in limbo at the moment,” Ian Williams, a market
strategist at Peel Hunt LLP in London, said in a telephone
interview. “There’s obviously a bit of uncertainty related to
the shutdown and what that might mean. We’re on wait-and-see for
that, but I don’t think the impact will be that massive even if
it drags into next week.”  The partial shutdown of the U.S. government entered its
third day after President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders
failed to break their impasse over the budget in face-to-face
talks late yesterday. The move has placed as many as 800,000
federal employees on unpaid leave, closed national parks,
museums and Internal Revenue Service call centers.  Partial Shutdown  A shutdown lasting one week would probably shave 0.1
percentage points from economic growth, according to the median
estimate of economists in a Bloomberg survey. The cost would
accelerate if the closure persists.  The standoff has intensified concern about talks to
increase the $16.7 trillion limit on the  nation’s debt . The
Treasury has said it will exhaust measures to avoid exceeding
the borrowing limit on Oct. 17. If that happens, the government
would run out of cash to pay its bills by Oct. 31 at the latest,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  In China, a purchasing managers’ index for  services
industries  climbed to 55.4 in September from 53.9 in August.
That was the highest level since March, according to the
National Bureau of Statistics and Federation of Logistics and
Purchasing. Readings above 50 mean that activity increased.  In the U.K., the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply’s PMI for  services industries  slipped to 60.3 in
September. That fell short of the August reading of 60.5, which
was also the median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey .  BP Gains  BP climbed 1.1 percent to 437.2 pence after the  U.S. Court
of Appeals  in  New Orleans  yesterday ordered a district judge to
stop some payments to businesses for economic losses. Europe’s
second-largest oil producer said that “claimants should not be
paid for fictitious or wholly non-existent losses.”  Carl
Barbier , the trial judge, will now have to review his
interpretation of the terms of the settlement.  Aviva increased 1.4 percent to 413.1 pence. The U.K.’s
second-biggest insurer by market value said it received $2.6
billion on completion of the sale of the U.S. units to Apollo
Global Management LLC’s Athene Holding Ltd. That exceeded the
$1.8 billion that Athene agreed to pay for the assets when the
companies reached a deal on Dec. 21. The increase reflects
earnings and other improvements to the company’s surplus,
London-based Aviva said in  a statement .  Vodafone, FirstGroup  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  increased 1.4 percent to 222 pence.
Chief Financial Officer Andy Halford will step down in March
following the completion of the company’s $130 billion sale of
its stake in  Verizon Wireless . Nick Read, who runs Vodafone’s
Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific business, will take his
place on April 1, the telecommunications operator said.  FirstGroup Plc (FGP)  added 2.5 percent to 123.7 pence after
estimating that passenger revenue from its rail and bus
businesses in the U.K. increased by 5.7 percent and 1.6 percent,
respectively, in the six months through Sept. 30. The operator
of the First Great Western train franchise will report its half-year results on Nov. 6.  A gauge of London-listed mining companies slid as metal
prices fell.  BHP Billiton , the world’s largest commodity
producer, slipped 1.3 percent to 1,802 pence. Glencore Xstrata
retreated 1.3 percent to 1,802 pence.  Sports Direct International Plc (SPD)  slipped 1.5 percent to 698
pence. The chief executive officer and chief financial officer
of the U.K.’s largest sports retailer each sold 950,000 shares
at 680 pence apiece, according to a filing. A further 3.9
million shares were placed in an accelerated bookbuild at 690
pence each, according to a person familiar with the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  