-- Services Maintain Growth After Best Quarter Since 1997
-- B y   E s h e   N e l s o n
-- 2013-10-03T10:25:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-k-services-maintain-pace-after-strongest-quarter-since-1997.html
U.K. services growth  maintained its
pace of expansion in September, capping the best quarter for the
industry in 16 years with an increase in confidence and hiring.  A gauge of activity was at 60.3 after reaching a seven-year
high of 60.5 in August, Markit Economics said today in  London .
The median estimate of 24 economists in a Bloomberg survey was
60.5. A reading above 50 signals expansion. Euro-area services
grew more than initially estimated and a Chinese gauge rose to a
six-month high, separate reports showed.  U.K. construction and manufacturing also expanded last
month, and Bank of England Markets Director  Paul Fisher  said
yesterday there has been a “significant shift” in the
recovery. Markit said its surveys point to expansion of as much
as 1.2 percent in the third quarter after 0.7 percent in the
three months through June.  “There are encouraging signs that the strong pace of
expansion will persist,” said  Chris Williamson , chief economist
at Markit in London. “September saw one of the largest inflows
of new business ever seen by the services survey and business
confidence about the year ahead picked up again.”  Markit said new business at service companies rose last
month, while sentiment improved and payrolls increased at a
“solid rate.” The pound erased its decline against the dollar
after the survey was published. It was trading at $1.6232 as of
10:58 a.m. London time, up 0.1 percent from yesterday.  ‘Interesting Questions’  BOE Governor  Mark Carney  repeated his message yesterday
that officials won’t consider tightening policy until the
economy is growing at a “sustained pace.” The central bank
plans to keep the  key interest rate  at a record low of 0.5
percent at least until unemployment drops to 7 percent. It
forecasts that won’t happen until late 2016 as an expected
pickup in productivity restrains hiring.  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London,
said the growth in services employment “raises interesting
questions” about how the higher output will be divided between
jobs growth and productivity improvements.  “For now it appears to be relatively evenly split,” he
said. Any sign that it’s coming “disproportionately from
employment growth, and hence falling unemployment, will have
implications as to when the market anticipates the BOE will
‘take stock’ of its forward guidance.”  Boom and Bust  Carney, in an interview with ITV Anglia television
yesterday, also said policy makers must make sure the housing
market recovers in a sustainable way. Mortgage lender Halifax
said today that  home prices  increased 0.3 percent in September,
an eighth consecutive gain, lifting the average value to its
highest level since September 2008.  The BOE has tools to ensure the housing market “isn’t in a
boom and then a bust phase,” Carney said. “We will take those
responsibilities very deliberately, very prudently and act in a
proportionate fashion.”  Markit’s index of  U.K. construction  slipped to 58.9 in
September from a record 59.1 in August, it said yesterday. A
manufacturing gauge fell to 56.7 from a 2 1/2-year high of 57.1.  “The surveys suggest that the fourth quarter is starting
on a strong note too,” said  Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. in London. “Overall, then, more
evidence that the recovery is becoming well-entrenched.”  Fisher said the U.K. economy is now expanding “at least
around trend” and “forward-looking indicators signal that that
pace of growth will be maintained for the next two quarters.”  China Rebound  In the euro area, a services index rose to 52.2 last month.
That exceeded a Sept. 23 estimate of 52.1 and was up from 50.7
in August. The gauge has been above 50 for two months.  A Chinese index of  services activity  rose to a six-month
high, adding to signs that the world’s second-biggest economy
will sustain a rebound after a two-quarter slowdown. The non-manufacturing purchasing managers’ index increased to 55.4 in
September from 53.9 in August, the Chinese statistics office
said today.  Services growth in the U.S. probably cooled last month,
economists said before a report later today. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing index  fell to 57 from 58.6
the prior month, according to the median forecast of 75
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eshe Nelson in London at 
 enelson32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  