-- U.K. September Home Prices Rise as Aid Programs Boost Demand
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   F e r g a l   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2013-10-03T08:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-k-september-house-prices-rise-for-eighth-month-halifax-says.html
U.K. house prices  rose for an eighth
month in September as government aid programs boosted demand,
according to a report by Halifax.  Home values increased 0.3 percent from the previous month
to an average 170,733 pounds ($276,600), the mortgage unit of
Lloyds Banking Group Plc said in a statement in London today.
From a year earlier, values increased 6.6 percent.  Britain’s property market has strengthened in recent
months, prompting concerns that the government’s Help to Buy
plan may fuel a bubble. Bank of England Governor Mark Carney
said yesterday policy makers must ensure the housing market
recovers in a sustainable way and Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  has given the central bank the power to carry out
an annual review of his program.  “Demand has risen more quickly than supply in recent
months, putting upward pressure on prices,”  Martin Ellis , a
housing economist at Halifax, said in the statement. “There are
signs that supply is beginning to respond to the pick-up in
demand, which if continued should help to constrain the upward
pressure on prices.”  In the third quarter,  home prices  were 2 percent higher
compared with the previous three months. From a year earlier,
they were 6.2 percent higher in the quarter, the biggest
increase since June 2010. Values are still  14 percent below
 their 2007 peak, Halifax said.  The number of homeowners putting their properties up for
sale climbed for a seventh month in September, and house
building is showing signs of improvement, Halifax said.  Home Supply  In addition to Help to Buy and the BOE’s credit-boosting
Funding for Lending Scheme, housing is being bolstered by an
improving economy.  Gross domestic product  rose 0.7 percent in
the three months through June and GfK NOP Ltd.’s index of
 consumer confidence  rose to a six-year high last month.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  announced on Sept. 29 that the
second phase of Help to Buy will begin three months earlier than
planned. While the first phase helped to contribute to the
strongest housing activity since the financial crisis, Cameron
said that it is fixing a “failure” in the mortgage market and
BOE controls to prevent overheating are “very, very robust.”  BOE Markets Director  Paul Fisher  played down fears of a
housing bubble in a speech yesterday and the central bank has
said it will be “vigilant” on risks.  Mortgage approvals  rose to 62,226 in August, the most since
February 2008, the BOE said on Sept. 30. While that’s up from
47,600 a year earlier, it compares with an average of about
104,000 in the decade through 2007.  “The housing market is clearly gathering momentum,”
Fisher said in  London  yesterday. “I don’t see any evidence of
bubble behavior as yet, with mortgage lending still subdued
relative to what is likely to be normal levels of activity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Fergal O’Brien in London at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  