-- U.S.-Japan Set Road Map for Next 20 Years Amid Asian Threats
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n ,   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-10-03T09:13:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-japan-to-expand-military-ties-for-first-time-in-16-years.html
The U.S. said it would deploy new
military hardware in Japan and reiterated its backing for
Japanese control of islands disputed with China as the allies
prepare for shifting security threats in the region.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  and Defense Secretary
Chuck Hagel met their Japanese counterparts today in  Tokyo  and
officially agreed to revise the guidelines for defense
cooperation between the two nations for the first time since
1997. They formalized a deal to move some U.S. troops from
Okinawa to Guam and plan to cooperate on cyber defense.  The U.S.-Japan alliance is the “cornerstone of peace and
prosperity across the Asia-Pacific,”  Kerry told reporters
after the meeting. “Our relationship has never been stronger or
better than it is today. We are continuing to adapt, however, to
confront the different challenges of the 21st century,” he
added, saying they would set a strategic road map for the next
15 to 20 years.  Kerry and Hagel met with Japanese Foreign Minister Fumio Kishida and Defense Minister Itsunori Onodera today,
reconfirming the U.S. commitment “to the security of  Japan 
through the full range of of U.S. military capabilities,
including nuclear and conventional,” according to a joint
statement from the two governments.  Defending Japan  The two countries pledged to create “a more robust
alliance” as China boosts military spending and expands its
naval reach, while North Korea is increasing the range of its
ballistic missiles and threatening neighbors with nuclear
attacks. Almost 70 years after the U.S. imposed a pacifist
constitution on Japan, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s government is
seeking to reinterpret the document to allow it to defend
allies.  “I explained the Abe cabinet’s security policy based on
active pacifism and this was welcomed by my U.S. counterparts,”
Kishida told reporters today.  China  has denounced the expansion of the alliance and what
it says is a new Japanese militarism. Tensions between the two
nations have remained high since Japan purchased three disputed
islands in the  East China Sea  in September 2012. Since then
Chinese patrol boats have regularly plied the waters near the
islands known as Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China to
challenge Japan’s claims of sovereignty.  Islands Dispute  “The  United States  has made it clear that, while we don’t
take a position on the ultimate sovereignty of the Senkaku
islands, we do recognize Japan’s administration of those
islands,” Kerry said. “We urge the parties not to engage in
any unilateral action,” he added. Kishida thanked him for his
support.  Kerry said China had a role in pressuring  North Korea  to
give up its nuclear weapons program. U.S. officials
“acknowledge there will be differences” in the relationship
“but we seek to to find the things we can cooperate on,” such
as a shared interest in a denuclearized North Korea.  A “rising China is welcome as long as” it adheres to
international standards and values and works in constructive
ways, Kerry said. He added that the U.S. was prepared to engage
with North Korea on the condition it is prepared to
denuclearize.  Japan Radar  The U.S. also used the meeting to announce the location of
a second missile-defense radar to be deployed in Japan and the
two countries discussed existing plans to shift 5,000 marines
from Okinawa to  Guam  as the U.S. seeks to reduce the impact of
its forces on local communities. Under the plan, Japan will pay
up to $3.1 billion of the estimated $8.6 billion total cost of
the relocation, the two governments said in a statement.  The U.S. said in the statement it will rotate Global Hawk
unmanned aircraft through Japan from 2014 and will deploy P-8
maritime patrol aircraft to Japan for the first time from
December this year.  As part of a deeper alliance, the countries pledged to
expand cooperation in fighting global terrorism and piracy and
work together to provide humanitarian aid. Japan and the U.S.
plan to work with private industry to counter cybersecurity
threats and will seek to leverage space and satellite technology
to enhance maritime security, the countries said in the joint
statement.  Kerry and Hagel began their day with a visit to
Chidorigafuchi, becoming the highest-ranking U.S. officials ever
to visit the secular cemetery that honors Japanese war dead,
including those who fought against the U.S. in World War II.
Visits by Japanese politicians to the Yasukuni shrine in Tokyo,
which honors war dead including some convicted of  war crimes ,
have fueled tensions with China and  South Korea , both of which
suffered under Japanese occupation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Tokyo at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  