-- U.S. September ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2013-10-03T14:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-september-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.  September 2013 Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business  NMI at 54.4%  Business Activity Index at 55.1%  New Orders Index at 59.6%  Employment Index at 52.7%  Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
September for the 45th consecutive month, say the nation’s
purchasing and supply executives in the latest Non-Manufacturing
ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the Institute for Supply Management Non-Manufacturing
Business Survey Committee. “The NMI registered 54.4 percent in
September, 4.2 percentage points lower than August’s reading of
58.6 percent. This indicates continued growth at a slower rate
in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-Manufacturing Business
Activity Index decreased to 55.1 percent, which is 7.1
percentage points lower than the 62.2 percent reported in
August, reflecting growth for the 50th consecutive month but at
a significantly slower rate. The New Orders Index decreased by
0.9 percentage point to 59.6 percent, and the Employment Index
decreased 4.3 percentage points to 52.7 percent, indicating
growth in employment for the 14th consecutive month. The Prices
Index increased 3.8 percentage points to 57.2 percent,
indicating prices increased at a faster rate in September when
compared to August. According to the NMI, 11 non-manufacturing
industries reported growth in September. The majority of the
respondents’ comments continue to be positive; however, there is
an increase in the degree of uncertainty regarding the future
business climate and the direction of the economy.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 11 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in
September -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Construction; Utilities; Information; Finance & Insurance; Other
Services;  Wholesale Trade ; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Public Administration. The four industries
reporting contraction in September are: Arts, Entertainment &
Recreation; Educational Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Mining.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING ...
 ■“Overall business conditions are slowing -- small manpower
decrease of 5 percent.” (Construction)
 ■“Business levels continue to be strong. Shifting from
transient to group travelers.” (Accommodation & Food Services)
 ■“Increased activity following summer vacations, but several
postponements as well. Clients still unsure about the economy
and business costs (e.g., healthcare).” (Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services)
 ■“The federal government’s spending is increasing greatly as
agencies execute their final budgets and utilize fiscal year
2013 appropriated funds prior to their expiration on September
30th. This has caused a major increase in procurement activity
for goods and services. Budgets are uncertain for fiscal year
2014, so some items requiring funding in future years are not
being purchased.” (Public Administration)
 ■“Business has leveled off -- not much in the way of growth.”
(Retail Trade)
 ■“Some pick-up in sequential sales growth, but still flat with
last year.” (Wholesale Trade)  * Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is seasonally
adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices and
Employment. Manufacturing ISM Report On Business data is
seasonally adjusted for New Orders, Production, Employment and
Supplier Deliveries.   ** Number of months moving in current direction.  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Cheese; #1  Diesel Fuel ; #2 Diesel Fuel (2); and Fuel (9).  Commodities Down in Price  Gasoline; Lumber -- Pine, Plywood Products and Treated; and Soy
Oil.  Commodities in Short Supply  Helium (4) is the only commodity reported in short supply.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated after each item.  SEPTEMBER 2013 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In September, the NMI registered 54.4 percent, indicating
continued growth in the non-manufacturing sector for the 45th
consecutive month. A reading above 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy is generally expanding; below 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in September
registered 55.1 percent, 7.1 percentage points lower than the
62.2 percent registered in August. Twelve industries reported
increased business activity, and five industries reported
decreased activity for the month of September. Comments from
respondents include: “The turmoil and uncertainty of the current
state of politics and the U.S. involvement overseas continues to
drag on the economy” and “Seasonal growth/improved economic
environment.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in
September -- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Utilities; Construction; Information; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing; Finance & Insurance; Other Services; Wholesale
Trade; Transportation & Warehousing; and Public Administration.
The industries reporting decreased business activity in
September are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Educational
Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Accommodation & Food
Services; and Mining.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in September for
the 50th consecutive month. The index registered 59.6 percent, a
decrease of 0.9 percentage point from the 60.5 percent reported
in August. Comments from respondents include: “Slowing demand”
and “Additional capital project work.”  The 13 industries reporting growth of new orders in September --
listed in order -- are: Construction; Utilities; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Wholesale Trade; Other Services;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Public Administration. The industries reporting
contraction of new orders in September are: Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Educational Services; and Mining.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
September for the 14th consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment Index registered 52.7 percent, which
reflects a decrease of 4.3 percentage points when compared to
the 57 percent registered in August. Nine industries reported
increased employment, and seven industries reported decreased
employment. Comments from respondents include: “Right-sizing the
workforce” and “Hiring, but unable to fill all open positions.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in September
-- listed in order -- are: Retail Trade; Mining; Management of
Companies & Support Services; Transportation & Warehousing;
Information; Other Services; Finance & Insurance; Wholesale
Trade; and Public Administration. The industries reporting a
reduction in employment in September -- listed in order -- are:
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Construction; Arts, Entertainment
& Recreation; Educational Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Utilities; and Health Care & Social
Assistance.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index remained unchanged at 50 percent
in September, which is a decrease of 4.5 percentage points
compared to the August reading of 54.5 percent. A reading above
50 percent indicates slower deliveries, while a reading below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The seven industries reporting slower deliveries in September --
listed in order -- are: Educational Services; Construction;
Transportation & Warehousing; Retail Trade; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Health Care & Social
Assistance; and Accommodation & Food Services. The seven
industries reporting faster deliveries in September -- listed in
order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining;
Wholesale Trade; Other Services; Public Administration; Finance
& Insurance; and Information.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in September for
the eighth consecutive month. The index registered 54.5 percent,
which is 1.5 percentage points lower than the 56 percent
reported in August. Of the total respondents in September, 23
percent indicated they do not have inventories or do not measure
them. Comments from respondents include: “Stockpiling inventory
for jobs won” and “Needed to support additional stores.”  The 11 industries reporting an increase in inventories in
September -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing & Hunting; Utilities; Transportation & Warehousing; Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; Other Services; Professional,
Scientific & Technical Services; Finance & Insurance;
Construction; Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food Services; and
Wholesale Trade. The four industries reporting decreases in
inventories in September are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Information; Public Administration; and Health Care & Social
Assistance.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and services increased in September for the 48th
consecutive month. ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Prices Index for
September registered 57.2 percent, 3.8 percentage points higher
than the 53.4 percent reported in August. In September, the
percentage of respondents reporting higher prices is 16 percent,
the percentage indicating no change in prices paid is 78
percent, and 6 percent of the respondents reported lower prices.  Nine non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in prices
paid during the month of September, in the following order:
Mining; Educational Services; Retail Trade; Public
Administration; Wholesale Trade; Other Services; Utilities;
Health Care & Social Assistance; and Finance & Insurance. The
five industries reporting a decrease in prices paid during
September are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Management of Companies & Support Services; Accommodation & Food
Services; Information; and Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index grew in
September for the second consecutive month. The index registered
50.5 percent, which is the same reading that was reported in
August. Of the total respondents in September, 38 percent
indicated they do not measure backlog of orders.  The six industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
September -- listed in order -- are: Accommodation & Food
Services; Transportation & Warehousing; Real Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Construction; Information; and Professional, Scientific
& Technical Services. The six industries reporting a decrease in
order backlogs -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Retail Trade;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Finance & Insurance; Public
Administration; and Wholesale Trade.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be provided outside of the  United States  by
domestically based personnel grew in September for the second
consecutive month. The New Export Orders Index for September
registered 57.5 percent, which is 7 percentage points higher
than the 50.5 percent reported in August. Of the total
respondents in September, 60 percent indicated they either do
not perform, or do not separately measure, orders for work
outside of the United States.  The eight industries reporting an increase in new export orders
in September -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Utilities;
Public Administration; Management of Companies & Support
Services; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Information; Accommodation & Food Services; and Wholesale Trade.
The only industry reporting a decrease in export orders in
September is Arts, Entertainment & Recreation. Seven industries
reported no change in export orders in September compared to
August.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in September for
the fourth consecutive month. This month’s reading at 51.5
percent is 3.5 percentage points lower than the 55 percent
reported in August. Fifty-two percent of respondents reported
that they do not use, or do not track the use of, imported
materials.  The four industries reporting an increase in imports for the
month of September are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Public Administration; Mining; and Retail Trade. The
four industries reporting a decrease in imports for the month of
September are: Health Care & Social Assistance; Finance &
Insurance; Wholesale Trade; and Accommodation & Food Services.
Nine industries reported no change in imports for the month of
September compared to August.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in September
registered 62 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points lower than
the 63.5 percent reported in August. This indicates that
respondents believe their inventories are still too high at this
time. In September, 31 percent of respondents said their
inventories were too high, 7 percent said their inventories were
too low, and 62 percent said their inventories were about right.  The 12 industries reporting a feeling that their inventories are
too high in September -- listed in order -- are: Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Mining; Utilities; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Other Services; Wholesale Trade;
Finance & Insurance; Retail Trade; Health Care & Social
Assistance; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Accommodation & Food Services; and Information. The only
industry reporting a feeling that its inventory is too low in
September is Construction.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-manufacturing supply managers based on information they have
collected within their respective organizations. ISM makes no
representation, other than that stated within this release,
regarding the individual company data collection procedures. Use
of the data is in the public domain and should be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is based on data
compiled from purchasing and supply executives nationwide.
Membership of the Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is
diversified by NAICS, based on each industry’s contribution to
gross domestic product (GDP). The Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee responses are divided into the following NAICS
code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation & Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance;
Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services; Management of Companies & Support Services;
Educational Services; Health Care & Social Assistance; Arts,
Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation & Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment & Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering
Religious Activities; Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry Services, Personal Care Services, Death Care
Services, Pet Care Services, Photofinishing Services, Temporary
Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to the previous month. For each of the indicators
measured (Business Activity, New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New
Export Orders,  Inventory Change , Inventory Sentiment, Imports,
Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries), this report shows
the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices
and Employment. All seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by
the U.S. Department of Commerce and are subject annually to
relatively minor changes when conditions warrant them. The
remaining indexes have not indicated significant seasonality.  The NMI™ (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion indexes for four of the indicators with equal
weights: Business Activity (seasonally adjusted), New Orders
(seasonally adjusted), Employment (seasonally adjusted) and
Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes have the properties of
leading indicators and are convenient summary measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading above 50 percent indicates that the non-manufacturing economy in that index is generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates that it is generally declining.
Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® survey is sent out
to Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report
on information for the current month. ISM receives survey
responses throughout most of any given month, with the majority
of respondents generally waiting until late in the month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current business activity. ISM then compiles the report for
release on the third business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® monthly report, are listed
in the order of most growth to least growth. For the industries
reporting contraction or decreases, those are listed in the
order of the highest level of contraction/decrease to the least
level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® is published
monthly by the  Institute for Supply Management ™, the first
supply institute in the world. Founded in 1915, ISM exists to
lead and serve the supply management profession and is a highly
influential and respected association in the global marketplace.
ISM’s mission is to enhance the value and performance of
procurement and supply chain management practitioners and their
organizations worldwide.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business® is posted on ISM’s website at www.ism.ws on the third
business day of every month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business® featuring the
October 2013 data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on
Tuesday, November 5, 2013.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  