-- U.S. to Announce Japanese Site for Second Anti-Missile Radar
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-10-03T03:32:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-to-announce-japanese-site-for-second-anti-missile-radar.html
The U.S. today will announce the
location of the deployment of another precision-tracking, mobile
missile defense radar in Japan, part of a new defense strategic
alliance, according to a U.S. official.  The second  Raytheon Co (RTN) .-built AN/TPY-2 mobile radar will be
operational by next year at the Kyogamisaki military base in
central Japan, according to the U.S. defense official who can’t
be named according to government policy.  Japan took delivery of its first missile defense radar in
2006, which is located at Shariki military base on the northern
part of Honshu and operated by U.S. troops.  The deployment comes as tensions on the neighboring Korean
peninsula remain high, after North Korea tested its third
nuclear device in February. The U.S. and South Korea yesterday
agreed on a strategy aimed at combating the North’s nuclear
threat while a U.S. research group said there are further signs
that operations have resumed at the North’s reactor at Yongbyon,
a facility capable of producing enough plutonium to make one
nuclear bomb a year.  Missile Tracking  The AN/TPY-2 radar, which is also deployed to  Turkey , is
designed to work in tandem with U.S. satellites to detect a
missile launch from a country such as North Korea, according to
the U.S. Missile Defense Agency. It provides initial tracking
after a missile reaches space, feeding U.S. sensors monitoring
its flight across the Pacific to prepare for an intercept using
ground-based missiles in Alaska and  California  along with Japan,
if headed toward the nation.  The radar would feed information to U.S. and Japanese
Aegis-class missile defense destroyers for intercepts.  The radar “is important for ballistic missile defense for
both nations,” U.S. Forces Japan commander Lieutenant General
Sam Angelella told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday, without
disclosing an announcement was forthcoming.  “That’s why it’s kind of on a fast timeline,” he said
generally of a second radar deployment. “It’s important for the
U.S. homeland defense, situational awareness and the defense of
 Japan .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  