-- U.S. Mortgage Rates Drop With 30-Year at Three-Month Low
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-03T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-mortgage-rates-drop-with-30-year-at-three-month-low.html
Mortgage rates for 30-year U.S. loans
fell to a three-month low after a partial government shutdown
pushed down yields for the Treasuries that guide consumer debt.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
4.22 percent, the lowest since June 20, from 4.32 percent,
 Freddie Mac  said in a statement today. The average 15-year rate
decreased to 3.29 percent from 3.37 percent, according to the
McLean, Virginia-based company.  While the shutdown may have a “minimal” impact on
mortgage rates immediately, a potential U.S. debt default and
market expectations for when the  Federal Reserve  may begin
tapering the pace of its monthly bond purchases will be more
consequential, said  Jed Kolko , chief economist for  Trulia Inc. (TRLA) ,
a San Francisco-based real estate website.  “One effect of the shutdown is, if it lasts, it would
reduce  purchases  among consumers because federal wages aren’t
being paid,” slowing economic activity and pushing rates lower,
Kolko said in an interview yesterday. The debate over raising
the country’s debt limit “is a different story. In the unlikely
case that the government defaults on its debt, it would probably
cause financial panic and cause interest rates to spike.”  Treasuries gained after the U.S. government began its
shutdown on Oct. 1 as investors sought refuge from uncertainty.
 Ten-year yields  decreased to almost a seven-week low yesterday,
the biggest slide in two weeks.  Debate over the shutdown may bleed into discussions about
raising the debt ceiling, a bigger concern for the  U.S. economy .
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said this week that the U.S. has
begun using the last measures available to avoid breaching the
limit on Oct. 17.  May Low  The average rate for a 30-year loan surged to a two-year
high of 4.58 percent in August from a near-record low of 3.35
percent in early May. Mortgage applications for home  purchases 
fell 5.6 percent in the week ended Sept. 27, the most in almost
two months, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said yesterday.  After Congress failed to pass a budget, borrowers in the
process of getting loans could be delayed as lenders are blocked
from verifying Social Security numbers and accessing Internal
Revenue Service tax transcripts. The process also may be longer
for borrowers seeking mortgages backed by the Federal Housing
Administration because its full-time staff is now less than a
tenth of its normal size and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture ,
which backs mortgages in rural areas, won’t take on new business
during the shutdown.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  