-- U.S. Takes Lead Over International Team in Presidents Cup Golf
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2013-10-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-leads-in-5-of-6-presidents-cup-matches-as-rain-halts-play.html
Tiger Woods  got his record 21st
Presidents Cup win as the U.S. took a 3 1/2 to 2 1/2 lead over
the International team in the rain-interrupted first day of the
biennial golf tournament.  The Americans led in five of yesterday’s six matches when
thunderstorms halted play for 90 minutes, and the international
team rallied after the stoppage at Muirfield Village Golf Club
in Dublin, Ohio.  Woods, 37, who was paired with Matt Kuchar, had been tied
with fellow American  Jim Furyk  with 20 Presidents Cup victories.
Woods has a 21-14-1 record in the event.  “Kuch made a bunch of putts on the front nine, then I got
it rolling there for a little bit,” Woods told reporters.
“Then on the back nine, it was him or me on each hole.”  Two-man teams competed in fourball play yesterday, with
each golfer playing his own ball and the lowest score winning
the hole. The teams today play in foursomes, or alternating
shots with the same ball.  The weekend schedule will feature fourballs tomorrow
morning, followed by foursomes in the afternoon, with 12 singles
matches the next day.  Woods and Kuchar won their match for the American team 5-and-4, meaning they held an unassailable five-hole lead with
four holes to play, against Argentina’s  Angel Cabrera  and
Australia’s Marc Leishman. The International team includes
players from outside the U.S. and Europe.  PGA Championship winner  Jason Dufner  and Zach Johnson got
another point for the U.S. team, winning 5-and-3 against South
Africans Brenden Grace and Richard Sterne.  ‘Can’t Compare’  Steve Stricker , 46, and Jordan Spieth, 20, got the third
win for the Americans with a 1-up victory against Ernie Els of
South Africa and Brendon de Jonge of Zimbabwe. Spieth is the
first U.S. PGA Tour rookie selected to play in the event.  “I can’t compare it to anything else,” Spieth said in a
news conference. “Words can’t describe how much fun it was
today.”  Americans Bill Haas and  Webb Simpson  tied their match
against Masters Tournament winner Adam Scott of Australia and
Hideki Matsuyama of Japan, giving each side a half-point.  International duo Jason Day of Australia and Graham DeLaet
of Canada won 1-up against  Hunter Mahan  and  Brandt Snedeker , and
the visitors got their second point when South Africans Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel were 2-and-1 victors against
 Phil Mickelson  and Keegan Bradley.  The Americans are seeking their fifth straight championship
in the Presidents Cup, which began in 1994. The U.S. holds a 7-1-1 lead in the biennial event.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  