-- Kerry Says U.S. Must Test Iranian Diplomatic Sincerity
-- B y   I n d i r a   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-10-03T11:47:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-must-test-iranian-diplomacy-before-force-u-s-leaders-say.html
It would be “diplomatic
malpractice” not to test Iran’s sincerity to negotiate a deal
that insures it can’t develop nuclear weapons, U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said.  Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel, speaking at a joint news
conference with Kerry in Tokyo today, also defended the U.S.
willingness to talk to the new Iranian government, saying that
“engagement is not appeasement; it is not surrender.”  The comments from the top U.S. diplomat and Pentagon chief
were the first by senior Obama administration officials since
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  warned the world not
to trust Iran in a speech to the  United Nations General Assembly 
this week.  Western diplomats expressed optimism last week at the UN
after agreeing to resume stalled international nuclear talks
with Iran’s new government on Oct. 15-16 in Geneva. Iran’s new
President Hassan Rouhani and President  Barack Obama  had a 15-minute telephone conversation at the Iranian’s behest -- the
highest-level encounter between the two governments since Iran’s
1979 Islamic revolution.  Rouhani disavowed any interest in nuclear weapons at the UN
and said Iran wants to swiftly calm international concerns over
its nuclear program, while retaining its “right” to enrich
uranium for peaceful purposes.  Israeli Skepticism  As the U.S. and its five partners - the U.K.,  France ,
 Germany ,  China  and  Russia  - go into talks this month, Kerry said
today that “the test we face now, over these next weeks and
months -- not a long period of time, mind you, over a short
period of time -- is to determine” whether  Iran  is ready to
back up its pledge to come clean with the international
community.  Israel ’s government and some of its supporters in
 Washington  have expressed skepticism about Iran’s sincerity,
suggesting its leaders are playing for time to develop a
“break-out” capacity enabling the Persian Gulf state to race
to make a weapon before the world can react. They want
international economic sanctions against Iran maintained.  Netanyahu told the UN on Oct. 1 that Rouhani’s “soothing
rhetoric” is contradicted by his country’s “savage record” of
sponsoring global terror attacks and the expansion of its
disputed nuclear program, despite UN resolutions ordering a halt
to enrichment.  “The pressure on Iran must continue,” Netanyahu said.
“When it comes to  Iran’s nuclear program , here’s my advice:
Distrust, dismantle, verify.”  Israeli Security  Kerry and Hagel insisted today that the U.S. won’t make any
deal that sacrifices Israel’s security, which they called
paramount to the U.S., nor will the president abandon the threat
of force to stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon should
talks fail.  “Nothing with respect to the security of Israel will be
allowed to come between the relationship between Israel and the
 United States ,” Kerry said at a news conference with Hagel,
following the signing of an updated U.S.-Japan security accord
with their Japanese counterparts.  “No deal is better than a bad deal,” Kerry said,
insisting that the U.S. won’t sign onto anything less than a
verifiable accord that puts Iran’s nuclear program under
international safeguards.  Oil Sanctions  Even so, Kerry, a Vietnam War veteran, called it
“diplomatic malpractice of the worst order not to examine”
every opportunity “before you ask people to take military
action.” The U.S. will act in a “clear-eyed” manner and will
test Iran’s “actions with their words,” Hagel said.  Kerry also rejected a reporter’s suggestion that
Netanyahu’s speech to the UN implied that the U.S. is being used
by the Iranians. “I understood it to be a warning: ‘Don’t be
played,’” Kerry said, adding that Rouhani deserves credit for
talking to the U.S. after decades of animosity.  Over the last two years, the U.S. and the European Union
have imposed dozens of penalties restricting Iran’s banking
transactions, oil exports, shipping, trade and investment,
driving Iranian oil output to the lowest level since 1990.  Iran, the second-biggest producer among the  Organization of
the Petroleum Exporting Countries  as recently as June 2012, just
before U.S. and EU oil sanctions took effect, fell to sixth
place last month, according to a Bloomberg survey of  oil
companies , producers and analysts. A quarter of Iranians aged 15
to 29 were jobless in the Iranian year ended in March, official
figures show. The economic gloom became a central issue in
Iran’s June election.  It was Israel that pressed for economic sanctions on Iran
to test Iranian intentions, Kerry said.  Earlier this week, Obama said he assured Netanyahu that the
U.S. will demand Iran back up conciliatory words with verifiable
action, and that the threat of military force stands.  “It is absolutely clear that words are not sufficient,”
Obama said following his White House meeting with Netanyahu on
Sept. 30. “We take no options off the table, including military
options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in  Tokyo  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  