-- U.S. Asks Court to Reject Google Bid to Release Data
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o   a n d   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-asks-court-to-reject-google-bid-to-release-data.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  shouldn’t be allowed to publish how much data they
turn over to intelligence agencies, the U.S. told a secret
national security court.  Revealing such data “on a company-by-company basis would
cause serious harm to national security,”  Justice Department 
lawyers said in  court papers  made public yesterday.  The three companies, as well as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  LinkedIn
Corp. (LNKD) , made the request to the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court in Washington. The court, which operates mostly in secret,
issues warrants for collecting foreign intelligence inside the
U.S. The companies are seeking an order allowing them to release
the statistics without violating the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act.  The role of private companies in surveillance has come
under scrutiny since Edward Snowden, a computer technician who
was a contractor for the National Security Agency, disclosed
this year that the agency is collecting millions of U.S.
residents’ telephone records and the computer communications of
foreigners from Google and other Internet companies under court
order. Snowden is now in  Russia  under temporary asylum.  ‘Communications Platforms’  The companies’ request “would effectively give every
communications provider in the United States the right to reveal
the nature and scope of any FISA surveillance of their
communications platforms,” government lawyers wrote.  “Such information would be invaluable to our adversaries,
who could thereby derive a clear picture of where the
government’s surveillance efforts are directed and how its
surveillance activities change over time,” the government said.  Disclosing “FISA data in specific numbers and by specific
FISA provisions, as the companies seek, would provide
adversaries significant information about the government’s
collection capabilities” and would allow them “to switch
providers to avoid surveillance,” according to the government
filing.  Google said in a statement it’s “disappointed that the
 Department of Justice  opposed our petition for greater
transparency around FISA requests for user information. We also
believe more openness in the process is necessary since no one
can fully see what the government has presented to the court.”  Microsoft “will continue to press for additional
transparency, which is critical to understanding the facts and
having an informed debate about the right balance between
personal privacy and national security,” Dominic Carr, a
company spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Aggregate Data  The companies are seeking the court’s approval to disclose
aggregate data on requests the U.S. makes under national
security rules. They currently aren’t authorized to break out
the number of requests they get for user data under national
security statutes, as opposed to requests for information by  law
enforcement .  The “one aggregate bucket” approach of reporting both
criminal and national security requests for information from
providers demonstrates “that only a tiny fraction of their
customers’ accounts” are subject to government intrusion, while
not compromising spying methods, according to a statement by
Andrew McCabe, the head of the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation’s
national security operations, that accompanied the Justice
Department’s filing.  Yahoo, the largest U.S. Web portal, said in June that it
got as many as 13,000 requests for information from U.S.
government agencies in the six months ending in May, with the
most common types related to criminal investigations. Yahoo,
based in Sunnyvale, California, said it couldn’t lawfully break
out FISA requests.  The Justice Department brief was filed Sept. 30 and posted
yesterday on the court’s website, with portions redacted.  Preventing Attacks  The government contends that its intelligence-gathering has
helped prevent numerous terrorist attacks in the U.S. and other
countries.  Google, based in  Mountain View , California, said in court
papers filed in June that the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment gives it the right to publish statistics including the
total number of users or accounts affected by the government
data requests.  The surveillance program disclosed by Snowden, code-named
Prism, traces its roots to the warrantless domestic-surveillance
efforts under former President  George W. Bush . According to
information provided by Snowden, Prism gathers e-mails, videos
and other private data of foreign surveillance targets through
arrangements that vary by company and are overseen by the panel
of judges who work in secret.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Zajac  in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 