-- U.S. Holiday Retail Sales May Climb by 3.9%, NRF Says
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2013-10-03T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/u-s-holiday-retail-sales-may-climb-by-3-9-nrf-says.html
U.S. retail sales may increase 3.9
percent during the holiday season, as political and economic
uncertainties damp  consumer confidence , the National Retail
Federation said.  Sales may rise to $602.1 billion in November and December,
Washington-based NRF said today in a statement. The increase is
slightly higher than last year’s 3.5 percent gain and the 10-year average of 3.3 percent, NRF said. Stores may hire 720,000
to 780,000 seasonal employees, compared with 720,500 last year,
the group also said.  The first partial government shutdown in 17 years and the
prospect of a lengthy budget fight could jeopardize the economic
recovery and cool consumer sentiment, the auto market and sales
of luxury goods. The economy has shown positive signs as
unemployment dropped in August to its lowest level since
December 2008, while sales of previously owned homes rose in
August and housing prices gained 15 percent from a year earlier.  “We’re trying to balance looking at the whole year of
relatively strong fundamentals underlying the economy against
the uncertainty coming out of  Washington  and the significant
unresolved issues that exist at a policy level,” NRF President
Matthew Shay said in an interview. “We’re in for what could be
a solid season, but we have to let the folks in Washington get
out of their own way a little bit to let that happen.”  Online sales will rise as much as 15 percent to $82 billion
in November and December, the NRF’s shop.org arm projected. That
would compare with an increase of 15.5 percent in e-commerce
sales in the fourth quarter of last year, the NRF said, citing
Commerce Department data.  Work Stoppage  The Federal work stoppage may subtract as much as 1.4
percentage points from economic growth, depending on its length,
according to Guy LeBas, chief fixed income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC.  In addition to the political uncertainty, consumers are
contending with a 2 percentage-point increase in the payroll tax
and rising mortgage rates, after the Federal Reserve signaled in
May that it was prepared to start phasing out its monthly bond
purchases this year.  While lower-income households have restrained purchases
this year because of the increase in payroll tax, Shay said
shoppers at all income levels this season will focus on value,
whether in the form of discounts, quality or service.  Many retailers, from  Macy’s Inc. (M)  to  Nordstrom Inc. (JWN)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , missed second-quarter sales estimates and cut
forecasts as consumers preferred to spend on bigger items like
cars and home-related products.  Catalog retailers  The NRF’s projected increase in holiday sales compares with
an estimated gain of 3.4 percent by the International Council of
Shopping Centers last month, up from 3 percent in 2012. Deloitte
LLP has projected sales may increase as much as 4.5 percent for
November to January, led by non-store sales from online and
catalog retailers, in line with the gain for last year.  Earlier in September, Chicago-based researcher ShopperTrak
said sales in stores may advance 2.4 percent over the holidays,
the smallest increase since 2009 as customers visit fewer
stores. Customer traffic in November and December may decline
1.4 percent from the same period a year earlier, ShopperTrak
also said.  Holiday Promotions  To draw in shoppers, retailers may begin offering
promotions as early as Nov. 1 this year to take advantage of a
shorter holiday season, according to the researcher.  This year, there are 25 days between the day after
Thanksgiving -- known as Black Friday -- and Christmas, compared
with 31 days in 2012, and four instead of five weekends. Sales
in November and December account for 20 percent to 40 percent of
U.S. retailers’ annual revenue, according to the NRF.  Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., a Chicago-based
employment consulting firm, has a more pessimistic view on
holiday hiring by U.S. retailers, projecting a decline of about
6.9 percent this year amid shaky consumer confidence and as
stores implement more efficient practices reducing demand for
seasonal workers. Retailers will hire about 700,000 temporary
staff, down from 751,800 last year, which was a 12-year high,
the firm said last month.  Some retailers have begun announcing holiday hiring plans.
Wal-Mart said in September that it would boost holiday hiring to
55,000, a 10 percent increase from last year.  Target Corp. (TGT)  has
said it would take on about 70,000 workers, 20 percent fewer
than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  