-- Undersea Miner Nautilus Jumps on Arbitration Win
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k
-- 2013-10-03T20:08:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/undersea-miner-nautilus-jumps-on-arbitration-win.html
Nautilus Minerals Inc. (NUS)  jumped the
most in seven years after winning an arbitration case against
 Papua New Guinea  in a dispute over the company’s Solwara 1
undersea copper- and gold-mining project.  Nautilus rose 51 percent to 55 Canadian cents (53 U.S.
cents) in Toronto, the biggest gain since May 2006.  The arbitrator, former Australian High Court judge Murray Gleeson, declared that Papua New Guinea breached an agreement
signed with the Toronto-based company by failing to complete the
acquisition of a 30 percent stake in Solwara 1 by Nov. 7, 2011,
Nautilus said today in a statement.  As part of the decision, which is final and binding,
Gleeson ordered Papua New Guinea to complete the purchase and
pay 30 percent of project expenditures incurred to date,
Nautilus said. The company issued the government with a notice
requiring the completion of the deal by Oct. 23. It said the
total sum due to the company is about $118 million.  Calls to Papua New Guinea’s consulate in Toronto seeking
comment on the decision weren’t answered.  Papua New Guinea granted Nautilus the world’s first deep-sea mining lease in January 2011. Solwara 1 is located in the
Bismark Sea, near the island of New Ireland.  The company plans to cut ore from the seabed 1 mile (1.6
kilometers) below the surface using two tracked robots. A third
machine will suck up the rock-and-water slurry, which will be
pumped to the surface, processed and transferred to a transport
ship. Nautilus has an agreement to supply ore to  Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co. Ltd. (000630) , a Chinese copper refiner.  “We can’t provide a timeline for when we expect to be
producing at this time,” John Elias, a Nautilus spokesman, said
today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  