-- UniCredit Makes Offer for Rabobank’s Polish Unit BGZ
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2013-10-03T10:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/unicredit-bids-for-rabobank-s-polish-unit-mulls-ukraine-sale.html
UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Italy ’s biggest bank,
offered to purchase Bank Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA, the Polish
unit of Rabobank Groep, said Chief Executive Officer  Federico Ghizzoni .  “We want to grow in Poland, which is a core country for
us,” Ghizzoni said at a meeting with reporters in Milan
yesterday. “We made an offer for BGZ; we are at a preliminary
phase,” he said. The non-binding offer was made through
UniCredit’s Polish unit, Bank Pekao SA, a spokesman said.  UniCredit is reorganizing operations in central and eastern
Europe, as well as its Italian branch network, in a five-year
plan to increase profit and strengthen finances. The bank, the
biggest lender in the former communist part of Europe, is
focusing investments on its most promising markets:  Russia ,
 Turkey , Poland and the Czech Republic. The Milan-based bank is
retrenching in countries including  Ukraine , where it’s seeking a
buyer, and Kazakhstan, where it sold unprofitable ATF Bank in
March.  “From a strategic point of view, a higher exposure to
Poland makes sense for UniCredit, as it allows it to leverage on
Pekao’s capital excess,” wrote Giovanni Razzoli, a Milan-based
analyst at Equita Sim, in a note today.  Rabobank is considering various options for its Warsaw-based
unit, Milou Verhaegh, a spokeswoman, said by telephone,
declining to comment on UniCredit’s bid. The Utrecht,
Netherlands-based bank holds 98 percent of the Polish
agricultural lender after buying a 40 percent stake in an
offering last year for 1.25 billion zloty ($400 million).  Poland Expansion  BGZ, with assets of 36.7 billion zloty on June 30, jumped
as much as 6.8 percent to the highest since November 2012, and
was up 4.4 percent to 67.30 zloty at 11 a.m. in Warsaw trading.
Aleksandra Myczkowska, a BGZ spokeswoman, declined to comment on
UniCredit’s offer.  UniCredit rose 0.5 percent to 5.12 euros in Milan, giving
the company a market value of 29.7 billion euros ($40.4
billion). The stock is up  39 percent this year, compared with a
14 percent gain in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index .  UniCredit owns more than 50 percent of Bank Pekao,  Poland ’s
second-largest lender. Andrzej Jakubiak, the head of Poland’s
financial watchdog, said in June he’s reluctant to allow big
bank mergers and expects changes in ownership to come through
new investors rather than consolidation.  Pekao CEO Luigi Lovaglio said in August the bank must look
at takeover opportunities if target companies fit its strategy
and the price is “acceptable.”  Ukraine Sale  UniCredit also plans to open new branches in  China , where
Ghizzoni is seeking to help corporate clients that want to
expand there and to attract Chinese investments. Ghizzoni, 57,
said he is also looking at opening offices in Brazil and  Africa .  UniCredit is considering scaling back in Ukraine.  “We are testing the market for our Ukrainian assets,”
Ghizzoni said. “We will see if we will find counterparties.”  UniCredit had 3.9 billion euros of risk-weighted assets in
Ukraine at the end of June, making it the second-biggest western
lender in the country after  Raiffeisen Bank International AG. (RBI)  It
swung to a pretax loss of 67 million euros in the second quarter
as bad debt provisions soared and revenue plummeted. The bank is
in the process of merging its two units in the country.  The sale “would help to reduce the risk profile and the
complexity of the group, freeing liquidity, at least 500 million
euros, and capital,” Equita Sim’s Razzoli said.  Industry Losses  Ukraine’s banking system, which was among the fastest
growing in Europe until 2008, has shrunk since. Total loans were
equivalent to 58 percent of gross domestic product last year,
down from 77 percent in 2008, according to Raiffeisen research.
The banking industry reported losses every year from 2009 to
2011.  Ghizzoni said UniCredit doesn’t need to cut assets further
and intends to boost profitability by raising fees, increasing
asset management commissions and stepping up investment-banking
activity as dealmaking improves. He targets a return on tangible
equity of about 10 percent in the “mid-term,” without being
more specific on the timeframe.  UniCredit’s second-quarter profit more than doubled to 361
million euros after it cut costs and bought back debt. The
company lowered second-quarter operating expenses by 1.8 percent
from a year earlier to 3.67 billion euros and plans to reduce
them by 1 billion euros more than targeted by 2015. In 2011, the
bank announced plans to cut expenses by 15.8 billion euros by
2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  