-- Vodafone CFO Halford Will Leave After Verizon Wireless Sale
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-03T11:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/vodafone-finance-chief-halford-to-leave-following-verizon-sale.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) ’s Chief Financial
Officer Andy Halford will step down in March following the
completion of the company’s $130 billion sale of its stake in
Verizon Wireless.  Nick Read, who runs Vodafone’s  Africa , Middle East and
Asia-Pacific business, will take his place, becoming CFO
designate in January, the Newbury, England-based company said in
a statement.  Halford, 54, who has been CFO for nine years, is leaving
after completing one of the biggest deals in the company’s
history. Last month, Vodafone ended its 14-year-old venture with
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  in the biggest sale in more than a
decade. Halford, who has been with Vodafone since 1999, was
formerly CFO for the Verizon Wireless unit, which became the
biggest mobile-phone company in the U.S.  “It has been a privilege to work for one of the greatest
businesses of our era for almost half of its life and to have
been involved with  Verizon Wireless  from the earliest days,”
Halford said in the statement. “Next year will be the right
time for me to move on.”  Halford has returned 61 billion pounds ($99 billion) to
shareholders since he became CFO in 2005 and the Verizon
Wireless deal will win investors another 54 billion pounds,
according to the company.  Marks & Spencer  Vodafone spokesman Simon Gordon declined to comment on
Halford’s plans for the future. In addition to his role at
Vodafone, Halford sits on the board of directors at  Marks &
Spencer Group Plc. (MKS)   Vodafone  rose  1.5 percent to 222.25 pence in London trading
as of 12:40 p.m. The shares had gained 42 percent this year
through yesterday.  Read will be replaced by Serpil Timuray. Timuray has run
the company’s fast-growing Turkish unit since 2009 and she’s sat
on the board of Vodafone’s South African venture,  Vodacom Group
Ltd (VOD) , since last year.  The company also named a replacement for the head of its
Italian unit, Paolo Bertoluzzo, this week. Bertoluzzo has taken
an expanded role running Vodafone’s commercial operations. He
will be replaced by Aldo Bisio on Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  