-- Wallabies’ O’Connor Is Released From Australian Rugby Union Deal
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-03T04:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/wallabies-o-connor-is-released-from-australian-rugby-union-deal.html
Wallabies winger  James O’Connor  was
released from the last three months of his Australian Rugby
Union contract two weeks after being suspended indefinitely for
failing to meet the national team’s behavioral standards.  O’Connor, 23, won’t be offered a national contract next
year, the governing body said today. He’ll still be able to sign
with a Super Rugby team and would be eligible for Wallabies
selection next year should he stay in Australia.  “We are hopeful that James will stay in Australian rugby
and play in next year’s Super Rugby competition and that he sees
this as an opportunity to refocus his attitude and invest in all
aspects of his professional rugby career,” ARU Chief Executive
Officer Bill Pulver said in an e-mailed statement.  The cancellation of his ARU contract, which gives national
team players top-up payments to their Super Rugby salaries,
follows an ARU investigation into a Sept. 15 incident at Perth
International Airport in which O’Connor was barred from a flight.  The release, which the ARU said was by mutual agreement, is
effective immediately, meaning O’Connor won’t be considered for
the Wallabies’ November tour to  England , Ireland,  Scotland ,
 Wales  and  Italy , the ARU said.  “We would consider reviewing our position regarding a
national contract for 2015 and beyond if we believe James’s
behavior is consistent with the values associated with being a
Wallaby,” Pulver added.  The airport incident, which followed Australia’s Rugby
Championship win against  Argentina  the previous day in Perth,
came two weeks after O’Connor pledged to improve his behavior
following a series of disciplinary issues.  Past Troubles  In 2011, he was suspended for a Test match for sleeping
through a World Cup squad announcement and was reprimanded in
June after being photographed in a fast-food restaurant at 4 a.m.
three days before the second Test against the British and Irish
Lions. A week later he missed the team bus for a training
session in the leadup to the final game against the Lions.  O’Connor, who made his  Australia  debut in 2008 at age 18
and has played 44 Tests, said in a statement that he wanted to
apologize for “any issues that I have caused,” adding that he
needed to “earn back a lot of respect.”  “I recognize that given my actions and the circumstances
it is best for the team and myself to go in different directions
in the short term,” O’Connor was cited as saying by Sydney’s
Daily Telegraph. “I remain focused on earning my place back
with the Wallabies and will be looking for the right opportunity
to do this.”  The Perth-based Western Force, with whom O’Connor has been
in talks over a Super Rugby contract after being released by the
Melbourne Rebels in July, today advised him to take time away
from the sport to consider his options.  “At this point we believe it’s in James’s best interests
to take time and reflect on what’s important to him and what he
really wants,” RugbyWA CEO Mark Sinderberry said in a statement.
“If that is being a part of this club and making a positive
contribution to our club culture, then we’d be open to the
prospect of continuing those discussions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  