-- Wi-Fi Patent Owner Gets Ruling Setting Patent Royalties
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-10-04T04:13:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/wi-fi-patent-owner-wins-ruling-setting-royalties.html
A federal judge set 9.56 cents per
chip as the value of contested patents used in wireless computer
network technology in a case by patent-holder Innovatio IP
Ventures LLC against electronic device makers  Cisco Systems
Inc. (CSCO) ,  Netgear Inc. (NTGR)  and  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)   The ruling issued yesterday by U.S. District Judge James Holderman in Chicago stops short of fixing damages in the two-year-old litigation because the parties agreed to allow him to
determine the royalty value before considering whether the
patents were valid or infringed.  “The court hopes that by doing so, the possibility of
settlement will be enhanced because the parties will be better
able to evaluate the potential risks and benefits of expending
additional resources in the litigation,” Holderman said.  Innovatio IP, based in Chicago, accuses the defendants,
which also include  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  unit
SonicWALL, and businesses that bought Wi-Fi devices made by the
manufacturers, of infringing its portfolio of patents.  Holderman, citing an April ruling by U.S. District Judge
James Robart in  Seattle  in a patent dispute between Google
Inc.’s Motorola Mobility Holdings unit and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , said
the payment rate was based in part on an agreement by the
patents’ original owner,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , that they were
essential to Wi-Fi technology and that license fees should be
fixed at reasonable and non-discriminatory, or RAND, terms.  Attorneys for Innovatio IP and for Cisco said it was too
soon to estimate potential damages.  Licensing Chips  “At a minimum, the court’s determination that the Wi-Fi
chip is the appropriate base to which the RAND rate applies
opens the door for Innovatio to potentially license hundreds of
millions of units sold by numerous Wi-Fi chip suppliers,”
Matthew McAndrews, an Innovatio IP attorney, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  Innovatio IP will be making licensing offers to the
manufacturers based on Holderman’s order, McAndrews said.  Innovatio IP “still has a number of hoops to jump through
before they can get anything,”  Mark Chandler , general counsel
for San Jose, California-based Cisco, said in a phone interview.  Chandler cited the open issues of validity and
infringement, adding his company is also pursuing breach of
contract claims against Innovatio IP.  “We would be shocked if we had to pay anything,” he said.  Holderman presided over a non-jury trial last month, during
which he heard evidence on the RAND rate to which Innovatio IP
would be entitled, and limited, if it proved infringement, he
said in his ruling.  The judge has set a follow-up status hearing for Oct. 10.
“The parties shall file an agenda for the status hearing,
including proposals for setting further dates to resolve this
litigation” by Oct. 8, Holderman said.  The case is In re Innovatio IP Ventures LLC, 11-cv-09308,
in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
( Chicago ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in in federal court in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  