-- WTI Drops on Concern U.S. Shutdown May Curb Fuel Demand
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-03T12:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/wti-slips-after-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks-stockpiles-increase.html
West Texas Intermediate fell from its
highest settlement in almost two weeks as the U.S. government’s
partial shutdown fanned concern that economic growth may slow.  Futures slid as much as 0.6 percent in  New York . Talks
between President  Barack Obama  and U.S. congressional leaders
yesterday failed to break the budget logjam as the partial
government closure entered its third day. WTI jumped 2 percent
yesterday to the highest level since Sept. 20 after  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP)  said it expects to complete work on the southern portion
of its Keystone pipeline expansion by the end of October.  “Oil has been under pressure with the gloomy economic
picture, and in the past few trading sessions with the U.S.
government shutdown, which may slow oil demand,” said Myrto Sokou, an analyst at Sucden Financial Ltd. in  London .  WTI for November delivery dropped as much as 65 cents to
$103.45 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . It was at $103.69 as of 1:22 p.m. London
time. The contract yesterday advanced to $104.10 in the first
gain in four days. The volume of all futures traded was about 2
percent below the 100-day average.  Brent for November settlement fell as much as 49 cents, or
0.5 percent, to $108.70 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark was at a premium of
$5.82 to WTI, up from $5.09 yesterday, the least since Sept. 23.  U.S.  crude inventories  climbed by 5.5 million barrels last
week, data from the Energy Information Administration yesterday
showed. They were forecast to rise by 2.5 million in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Government Closures  The stalemate in  Washington  put about 800,000 federal
employees out of work and shuttered many U.S. government
functions, including infant nutrition aid, national parks and
Internal Revenue Service audits. Other services, such as air-traffic control and Social Security benefits, were operating.  Completion of the Keystone pipeline will potentially reduce
supplies at the WTI delivery point in Cushing,  Oklahoma .
TransCanada will begin filling its Gulf Coast pipeline with oil
soon after completion, a process that is forecast to take 30
days, Les Cherwenuk, project director for the company, said in
an interview yesterday in Houston.  WTI-Brent Spread  WTI will be $6 cheaper than Brent on average this quarter
as slowing refinery demand lags behind the highest U.S. crude
output in 24 years, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg this week. Brent’s premium to WTI
narrowed to a three-year low in the third quarter amid
speculation that the TransCanada link would help reduce crude
stockpiles at Cushing.  The U.S. benchmark will probably narrow its discount and
“trade much closer to Brent” next year, potentially surpassing
the North Sea grade in the first half, Adam Longson, an analyst
at Morgan Stanley in New York, said in an e-mailed report.
Credit Suisse cut its estimate for WTI’s discount in the first
half of 2014 by 50 percent, projecting a spread of $4 barrel
during the six-month period, according to a report.  A low-pressure system is growing stronger in the  Caribbean
Sea  as it moves northeast and may become a tropical depression,
according to the National Hurricane Center in Miami. The cluster
of thunderstorms has become better organized, a key indication a
storm is forming.  Bad weather in the  Gulf of Mexico  can affect oil and
natural gas operations for both  Mexico  and the U.S. The region
is home to 23 percent of U.S. crude production, 5.6 percent of
gas output and more than 45 percent of petroleum refining
capacity, according to the Energy Department.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  