-- Tyco’s Former Finance Chief Mark Swartz Granted Parole
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/tyco-s-former-finance-chief-mark-swartz-granted-parole.html
Former Tyco International Chief
Financial Officer Mark Swartz was granted parole and should be
released in January, according to the New York State Department
of Corrections and Community Supervision.  Swartz, 53, appeared before the state’s Board of Parole via
teleconference from the Lincoln Correctional Facility on West
110th Street Oct. 2 and was granted approval, Linda Foglia, a
spokeswoman for the department, said in an e-mail. He is
tentatively expected to be released Jan. 17, Foglia said.  Swartz, who served as Tyco’s chief financial officer from
February 1995 to September 2002, and former Chief Executive
Officer  Dennis Kozlowski  were convicted by a jury in  Manhattan 
in 2005 of defrauding shareholders of more than $400 million.
They are both serving sentences of 8 1/3 years to 25 years for
stealing from the company and deceiving shareholders.  “We are grateful for the decision granting parole to
Mark,” James A. Mitchell, an attorney representing Swartz with
Ballard Spahr Stillman & Friedman LLP, said in an e-mail. “This
has been a long journey and he looks forward to a happy and
productive future.”  Kozlowski became the face of corporate greed when the
government pointed to luxuries paid for with Tyco funds,
including a $30 million Fifth Avenue apartment with a $6,000
shower curtain, a $15,000 umbrella stand and paintings by  Claude Monet  and Pierre-August Renoir.  Work Release  Both men have been on “day reporting” status at Lincoln
since July, and are required only to briefly report to the
facility twice a week, Foglia said. They had earlier been on
“work release” status, which required them to spend two days
in the facility, she said.  Kozlowski is scheduled to appear before the parole board
the week of Dec. 3, Foglia said. Kozlowski sued the board last
year after it denied a request for early release due to
“concern for the public safety and welfare.”  New York State  Supreme Court  Justice Carol Huff in February
annulled the parole board’s decision in the Kozlowski case and
granted him a new hearing. An appeals court reversed Huff’s
ruling in July, saying the denial of parole was “rational”
based on the serious nature of his crimes.  Swartz in May of last year sued Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based Tyco, which makes security systems, seeking to recover $60
million he said he’s owed under agreements he made with the
company when he stepped down in 2002.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in  New York  State Supreme Court at
   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  