-- Yousafzai, Russian Activists Seen as Top Nobel Peace Contenders
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-03T08:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-03/yousafzai-russian-activists-seen-as-top-nobel-peace-contenders.html
Malala Yousafzai, the Pakistani
teenager who took on the Taliban, and Russian human rights
activists are seen as top contenders for this year’s Nobel Peace
Prize, the International Peace Research Institute said.  Sister Mary Tarcisia Lakot is also a potential winner for
her work promoting peace in  Uganda , Kristian Berg Harpviken,
head of the Oslo-based institute that ranks potential winners
each year, said in a statement. Russians that may win include
the “formidable, female, three-generation trio” of Lyudmila
Alexeyeva, Svetlana Gannushkina and Lilya Shibanova, he said.  Yousafzai, 16, was shot in the head in  Pakistan ’s Swat
Valley in retaliation for her campaign for girls to be given
equal rights to schooling, defying threats from Taliban
militants in her hometown of Mingora. She now lives in the U.K.
and has since gained global recognition for her promises to
continue her struggle against illiteracy, poverty and terrorism.  “Malala would not only be timely and fitting with a line
of awards to champions of human rights and democracy, but also
sets both children and education on the peace and conflict
agenda,” Harpviken said.  The prize, along with literature, physics and medicine
honors, was created by Swedish industrialist  Alfred Nobel  and
first awarded in 1901. Past winners include the European Union,
which won last year, as well as U.S. President  Barack Obama ,
civil rights leader  Martin Luther King Jr . and Mother Teresa.
The Norwegian Nobel Committee selects the peace prize recipient.
The economics prize was instituted by the Swedish central bank.  The fourth favorite is Claudia Paz y Paz, attorney general
in  Guatemala , for leading charges of genocide against former
President General Ríos Montt, according to PRIO. The last
shortlisted candidate is the Congolese gynecologist, Denis
Mukwege, who’s “a leading figure in the fight against sexual
violence worldwide,” according to PRIO.  The institute’s candidate list also includes UNESCO,
Nigeria’s Archbishop John Onaiyekan and Sultan of Sokoto,
Mohamed Sa’ad Abubakar.  The prize winner will be announced on Oct. 11. The
institute doesn’t help pick the winners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  