-- Dodgers Complete $2 Billion Sale of Team, Exit Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/l-a-dodgers-complete-2-billion-sale-of-team-exit-bankruptcy.html
The  Los Angeles Dodgers  were allowed
to exit bankruptcy after completing their $2 billion sale to a
group including Guggenheim Partners and its top executive Mark Walter and ex-basketball player Magic Johnson.  The deal became final after Major League Baseball and other
creditors declined to appeal the Dodgers’ reorganization plan,
approved last month by the bankruptcy judge.  “The Dodgers move forward with confidence -- in a strong
financial position, as a premier Major League Baseball
franchise, and as an integral part of and representative of the
Los Angeles community,” the team said yesterday in a statement.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross in Wilmington, Delaware,
approved the sale and bankruptcy exit plan over objections by
the league to aspects of the sale, including ownership of
stadium parking lots and the continuing involvement of a court-
appointed mediator.  Gross said that some disputes related to the sale and the
plan would need to be resolved through the mediator, retired
federal judge Joseph Farnan. Under a settlement between MLB and
the Dodgers former owner,  Frank McCourt , Farnan has the power to
make final rulings on aspects of the sale and MLB’s review of a
television contract the team may negotiate later this year.  McCourt put the Dodgers into bankruptcy in June, claiming
baseball Commissioner  Bud Selig  forced the team into a cash
crisis by rejecting a new contract with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports,
holder of the club’s TV rights through the 2013 season.  “I am grateful that the unbecoming events of recent years
are behind us and the focus can be squarely on the field,”
Selig said in a statement.  Decision to Sell  After mediation sessions with Farnan, McCourt agreed to
sell the team, ending his battle with MLB in November and, in
January, dropping his effort to sell the television rights
separately from the team.  The  Magic Johnson  group won an auction for the team on
March 27, beating offers from  Stan Kroenke , who owns the
National Football League’s St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English
soccer’s Premier League, and a group led by  Steven A. Cohen , who
runs hedge the fund manager SAC Capital Advisors LP.  Guggenheim Partners owns the biggest stake in the team, a
person familiar with the transaction said. Walter and Johnson
own smaller stakes of about 7 percent to 10 percent each, said
the person, who declined to be identified because the details
aren’t public.  Controlling Partner  Other investors include Hollywood producer Peter Guber,
chief executive officer of Mandalay Entertainment Group and co-
owner of the National Basketball Association’s Golden State
Warriors, and former Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals
President Stan Kasten, who will relocate to  Los Angeles  and run
the Dodgers.  Walter will be the controlling partner, allowing him to
vote on behalf of the team on issues brought before the owners
of the 30 MLB clubs.  Later this year, the new owners will have the chance to
sell future television rights to games, the team’s most valuable
asset. Fox Sports has a right to match any rival offers under
certain conditions.  Fox successfully fought McCourt when he tried to sell the
rights earlier than allowed under the current contract.  “We look forward to working with them on showcasing the
first-place Dodgers to their fans around the country and helping
the fans get to know the new owners,” Fox said in a statement
provided by company spokesman Chris Bellitti.  ‘Dem Bums’  While based in Brooklyn,  New York , the Dodgers became the
first  Major League Baseball  team with a black player when  Jackie Robinson  took the field in 1947. They started play in 1884 as
the Brooklyn Atlantics, and didn’t win their first championship
until 1955. Departing from devoted fans that lovingly called
them “Dem Bums,” they joined the Giants in moving from New
York to California in 1958.  The Dodgers have won six  World Series , tied for fifth-most
in baseball. Five came in Los Angeles, where Duke Snider, Sandy Koufax, Steve Garvey,  Fernando Valenzuela  and Kirk Gibson led
them to championships.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  