-- ‘Once’ the Musical Receives 11 Tony Award Nominations
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-05-01T15:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/-once-the-musical-receives-11-tony-award-nominations.html
“Once,” a wistful $5.5 million
Broadway musical about an Irish man, a Czech woman and their
folk music collaboration, received 11 Tony Award nominations
today in New York, the most of any show.  The $75 million “ Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark ,” the most
expensive show in Broadway history, was snubbed in every major
category. It received two nominations, for set and costume
design.  “Once” competes for best musical against “Newsies,”
 Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s buoyant account of the July 1899 strike of
newspaper delivery boys; “Nice Work If You Can Get It,” a new
comedy with Gershwin songs starring  Matthew Broderick  and Kelli
O’Hara; and “Leap of Faith.”  “ Peter and the Starcatcher ,” a prequel to “Peter Pan,”
was the most nominated play, with nine. It faces off for best
new play against “Clybourne Park,” “ Other Desert Cities ” and
“Venus in Fur.”  “One Man, Two Guvnors,” a $3.3 million farce that
originated at  London ’s  National Theatre  and won rave reviews on
Broadway, was not nominated for best play. It was cited for its
director,  Nicholas Hytner , and actors  James Corden  and Tom
Edden, who plays a hapless waiter.  Committee of 22  The nominations were decided by a committee of 22 theater-
affiliated professionals. They were announced this morning at
the  New York Public Library  for the Performing Arts at  Lincoln
Center .  The winners of Broadway’s biggest prizes are determined by
the votes of about 800 producers, actors, critics and theater-
union members. The awards will be announced June 10 at the
Beacon Theatre, in a ceremony broadcast by CBS.  Attendance for the season, which ends on May 27, is little
changed from a year ago. Ticket revenue is up 7.4 percent to $1
billion, according to the Broadway League, which represents
theater owners and producers. Average seat prices are $92.44
this season, up from about $86.20 a year ago.  “Death of a Salesman,” a $3.6 million production of the
1949 Arthur Miller play, received seven nominations, including
best revival as well as for lead actor Philip Seymour Hoffman,
featured actor  Andrew Garfield  and its director, Mike Nichols.
Its rivals are “Gore Vidal’s The Best Man” and two Manhattan
Theatre Club shows that have closed, “Master Class” and
“Wit.”  “Evita,” “Follies,” “The Gershwins’ Porgy and Bess”
and “Jesus Christ Superstar” were nominated for best revival
of a musical.  “Magic/Bird,” a new play about basketball stars  Larry
Bird  and  Magic Johnson  that has struggled at the box office,
received no nominations. Ditto for “Chinglish” and “The
Mountaintop.” A revival of “A Streetcar Named Desire”
received one nod, for costume design.  Lead actor James Earl Jones, playing a former president,
was nominated for “Best Man,” along with  Frank Langella  (“Man
and Boy”) and  John Lithgow  (“The Columnist”). For actress in
a leading role, Linda Lavin (“The Lyons”) competes against
Nina Arianda (“Venus in Fur”), Tracie Bennett (“End of the
Rainbow”), Stockard Channing (“Other Desert Cities”) and
 Cynthia Nixon  (“Wit”).  Usual Snubs  Overlooked stars include Hugh Dancy, Samuel L. Jackson,
Blair Underwood,  Alan Rickman , John Larroquette,  Angela Bassett ,
Tyne Daly, Rosemary Harris and Rachel Griffiths.  “Once,” an adaptation of a 2006 movie, was also nominated
for actress Cristin Milioti, actor Steve Kazee, and for scenic,
sound and lighting design, plus direction and choreography.  More than half the 112 nominations by category went to
shows that originated at nonprofit theaters. Leading that group
was the  New York Theatre Workshop , whose productions of “Once”
and “Peter and the Starcatcher” are among the most acclaimed
shows of the season. (The score of “Once” was ruled ineligible
for a nomination because most of the songs came from the film.)  The other best-score nominees were “Starcatcher” and
“One Man, Two Guvnors,” both of which the Tony Awards
classified as plays.  In a sign of what many regarded as a weak season for new
musicals, just two musicals were nominated for best original
score: “Newsies” and “Bonnie and Clyde.” Along with “On a
Clear Day You Can See Forever” and “Lysistrata Jones,”
“Bonnie” closed within weeks of opening. Together, they lost
more than $20 million for investors, according to documents
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Box Office Rules  “Spider-Man,” despite little love by critics, has
regularly sold more than $1 million in tickets each week. In
contrast, “Ghost,” a $13 million Broadway production imported
from London that was also snubbed in the best-musical category,
took in just $668,000 last week.  Likewise, ‘Leap of Faith,” a $14.7 million show nine years
in the making that received a single nomination, has struggled.
Its producers have been selling prime orchestra tickets for as
little as $49, discounted 81 percent from the $252 weekend
“premium seat” price.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 