-- Ability-to-Repay Rule for Mortgages Nears CFPB Approval
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-01T14:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ability-to-repay-rule-for-mortgages-nears-cfpb-approval.html
Richard Cordray  wants lenders to
adhere to the most basic tenet of banking: making sure borrowers
can repay. Getting them to agree on how is proving tougher.  The director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is
aiming to discourage lenders from making home loans with risky
features and outlining steps they must take to verify borrowers’
finances, as part of the “qualified mortgage” or QM
regulation. Banks that follow the guidelines will gain legal
protection against borrower defaults.  “Here’s what should be the least surprising lending advice
you’ve ever heard: If you are going to lend money, you should
probably care about getting paid back,” Raj Date, the agency’s
deputy director, said in a speech April 20 in  Los Angeles .  The rule, which may be released as soon as next month, is
dividing the banking industry with the largest mortgage firms
such as Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. siding with
some consumer groups that the provision should allow certain
lawsuits. Trade groups whose members include smaller lenders are
holding out for a version that would protect bankers entirely
from being sued, arguing that without the provision,  home loans 
will be costlier and harder to obtain.  The big banks consented to a weaker standard of legal
protection in exchange for a broad definition of the types of
permissible mortgages in the new rule, according to a March 7
letter to Cordray from the Clearing House Association, which
represents the largest lenders. This step would “combine
prudent lending with less litigation, benefiting homeowners,
investors and lenders alike,” according to the letter.  Broad Overhaul  To obtain legal protection, a lender would have to meet
underwriting standards such as verifying a borrower’s income and
assets. Qualifying loans also couldn’t have features such as
interest-only payments or include fees and points totaling more
than 3 percent of the loan amount.  Cordray has called the regulation, required by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act “one of our most important rulemakings,” four
years after home loans triggered the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression. It’s part of a broad overhaul of
housing finance by multiple federal agencies, that will
eventually include legislation overseeing mortgage servicing,
securitization and restructuring the government role.  After the release of the qualified mortgage rule,
regulators say they will work on legislation requiring lenders
keep a stake in some securitized mortgages, known as the
“qualified residential mortgage” regulation.  Home Prices  Mortgage originations  in the first quarter rose 5.3 percent
to $318 billion from the same period last year, according to
Mortgage Bankers Association estimates, as  homeowners  took
advantage of  mortgage rates  near record lows to refinance.
Volumes are down from $729 billion in the quarter ending June
2006, a month before  home prices  in the U.S. peaked on their way
to a 35 percent decline.  Once the rule goes into effect, lenders are expected to
originate most of their loans according to the new standards in
order to gain legal protection from the kind of lawsuits and
“putbacks” that have cost banks billions in the wake of the
mortgage crisis. The additional legal protections will help
banks compensate for lost revenue from higher fees or exotic
loans such as interest-only mortgages.  In the years leading up to the financial crisis, banks
increasingly made loans with high fees and adjustable terms that
borrowers wouldn’t be able to repay, requiring them to refinance
after a few years. When housing prices dropped, many defaulted
instead.  ‘Core Deficiencies’  “This rule is aimed directly at the core deficiencies in
the mortgage market that produced unsustainable loans, an
inflated housing market, and resulting widespread economic
hardship,” Americans for Financial Reform, a coalition of
consumer advocacy groups, wrote Cordray in an April 18 letter.  Consumer groups are pushing to prevent the rule from
providing total protection for lenders. They want to ensure
homeowners or bond investors would still be able to sue banks if
they could prove lenders didn’t act in good faith when issuing
mortgages.  The rule could influence the volume and profitability of
mortgage lending, particularly to lower-income borrowers.  Bank
of America (BAC)  said in a comment letter that the rule could reduce
its mortgage lending, which totaled $298 billion in 2010 and
included $70 billion to low- and moderate-income households.  Industry Split  In recent months, the banking industry has split on the
issue of protection against lawsuits. The  Federal Reserve , which
issued a first draft of the rule a year ago, said the Dodd-Frank
Act left it unclear which approach to take.  The Fed proposal, which the bureau will finalize, included
two alternatives. The first was complete protection from
liability known as “safe harbor.” The other would provide less
legal protection -- a “presumption” that loans issued
according to quality standards were non-abusive -- that could
nonetheless be rebutted by a borrower or bondholder in court.  The Clearing House Association filed a public comment with
regulators on Dec. 7 on behalf of large banks that advocated the
safe harbor. The association is the advocacy arm of The Clearing
House, a banking association and payments company owned by the
largest U.S. banks including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo. (WFC)   The Clearing House Association changed its stance after
meeting with consumer groups. The association signed onto the
March 7 letter to Cordray endorsing a version of the rebuttable
presumption option, according to a copy of the letter. In
addition to the Clearing House, signers included the Center for
Responsible Lending and the  Consumer Federation of America , two
advocacy groups.  ‘Not Casual Redress’  “It’s about ensuring that lenders have a strong incentive
to fulfill all the obligations they’re required to fulfill,”
Barry Zigas, director of housing policy for the federation, said
in an interview. “The consumer who is disadvantaged does have
redress, but it’s not a casual redress.”  The agreement among the consumer groups and a banking
association who are usually on opposite sides has drawn
criticism from smaller banks and from other borrower advocates.  In a March 12 letter, a collection of consumer groups that
includes the National Consumer Law Center and the National
Association of Consumer Advocates wrote that the legal hurdles
homeowners would have to surmount to bring a case under the
proposed compromise “is so onerous as to approach a safe
harbor.”  Seeking Safe Harbor  Other banking associations that include some of the
Clearing House’s members are still lobbying for complete
liability protection.  David Stevens , the president of the
 Mortgage Bankers Association , which represents large and small
lenders, said that only a safe harbor can minimize the
litigation risk. Otherwise, lenders will add a larger  risk
premium  to loans.  “All that’s going to do is make loans for borrowers at the
margin more expensive,” Stevens said in an interview.  Frank Keating , head of the  American Bankers Association ,
said that the proposed compromise “lacks any real protections
and opens banks up to wide litigation risk.”  “This uncertainty will make borrowing more expensive and
credit less available,” Keating said in an e-mailed statement.
“Some lenders may leave the market altogether.”  The  Independent Community Bankers of America , an
association of smaller institutions, is critical of the
“Clearing House flip,” its president, Camden Fine, said in an
interview. Fine’s group, whose members the consumer bureau has
wooed extensively, wants a safe harbor.  “Big banks know they have the resources to fight any
litigation that may come out of these regulations,” Fine said.
“Community banks do not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  