-- Lacker Says Fed May Have to Tighten With Unemployment at 7%
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2012-05-01T17:29:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/lacker-says-fed-may-have-to-tighten-with-unemployment-at-7-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the central bank needs to be ready
to raise  interest rates  even if joblessness exceeds 7 percent.  Speaking in an interview today at the Bloomberg Washington
Summit hosted by Bloomberg Link, he said the Fed will probably
have to raise  rates  in mid-2013. Adding more monetary stimulus
now would raise inflation risks without doing much to boost
growth, he said.  Unemployment “could well be above 7 percent, and I think
we have to prepare for that,” Lacker said. “I think it’s a
misconception to think we have to get unemployment all the way
down to five or some number like that before we raise rates.”  Lacker has cast the only dissenting vote at each of the
 Federal Open Market Committee ’s policy meetings this year. He
has opposed the Fed’s statement that economic conditions will
probably warrant “exceptionally low” levels of the federal
funds rate at least through late-2014.  It is “really tricky” for the Fed to find “that time
when interest rates need to rise to prevent inflation pressures
from emerging, before you see them emerge, before you see
inflation move up steadily,” he said.  Lacker said he expects economic growth to accelerate,
although “it’s not a gangbusters recovery by historical
standards.”  Labor Markets Healing  “Labor markets are likely to continue to heal, the
 unemployment rate  is likely to continue to fall,” he said.
“That’s going to lead to consumers, households having greater
confidence over time.”  Stocks have rallied on better-than-forecast corporate
profits and signs of economic strength. The  Standard & Poor’s (SPX) 
500 Index has risen more than 12 percent this year, the best
start to a year since 1998.  The index rose 1.1 percent to 1,413.82 at 12:56 p.m. in New
York after a report showed that U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly
expanded in April at the fastest pace in 10 months.  Yields on 10-year Treasury notes rose from almost the
lowest level in three months after the figures, climbing 4 basis
points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.95 percent.  Employers increased payrolls by 635,000 from January
through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the first three
months of 2006.  Jobs Report  The Labor Department will release its April jobs report on
May 4. The economy added about 160,000 jobs and the  unemployment
rate  held at 8.2 percent, according to the median forecasts in a
Bloomberg survey of economists. In March, employers added
120,000 jobs, the fewest since October.  Economic growth in the U.S. slowed to a 2.2 percent annual
pace in the first quarter from 3 percent in the final three
months of 2011, according to a Commerce Department report last
week. While the biggest gain in  consumer spending  in more than a
year helped bolster growth, it was restrained by a diminished
contribution from business inventories and a drop in  government
spending .  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last week said the central
bank is “prepared to do more” if needed to boost the economy,
after leaving its policy unchanged. Lacker said more Fed
stimulus would be unwise.  “For us to provide more monetary stimulus at this point
would likely raise inflation risks and not likely do much for
growth,” Lacker said.  Second-Longest Serving  Lacker, 56, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004 and is the second-longest serving among all 12 regional
bank presidents after Cleveland’s  Sandra Pianalto . He was an
assistant professor of economics at  Purdue University  in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana , before joining the Richmond Fed in 1989 as
an economist in the research department.  Central bankers last week upgraded their forecasts for
economic growth and unemployment.  Officials forecast the jobless rate would average 7.8
percent to 8 percent in the final three months of this year
versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in January,
according to central tendency estimates. The new forecasts are
still far above policy makers’ estimates for full employment,
which range from 4.9 percent to 6 percent.  Fed officials estimated the economy will expand 2.4 percent
to 2.9 percent this year, compared with a January forecast of
2.2 percent to 2.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Matthew Winkler  in  New York  at 
 mwinkler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  