-- ADM Beats Estimates After Seeing ‘Good’ Trading Volumes
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-05-01T14:32:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/adm-beats-estimates-after-seeing-good-trading-volumes.html
(Corrects profit excluding inventory charge and
restructuring costs in second paragraph.)  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
largest grain processor, topped analysts’ profit estimates for
the first time in four quarters after international grain sales
and oilseed processing in North America improved.  Excluding an inventory charge and restructuring costs, per-
share profit for the three months through March was 78 cents, 31
percent more than the average of 13  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income fell to $399 million, or 60 cents a share,
from $578 million, or 86 cents, a year earlier, the Decatur,
Illinois-based company said in a statement today. Sales rose 5.4
percent to $21.2 billion from $20.1 billion.  “They beat on the bottom line on better-than-expected
oilseed operating profit and solid results in agricultural
services,” Ann Gurkin, a Richmond, Virginia-based analyst for
Davenport & Co. who has a buy rating on the shares, said in a
phone interview today.  ADM is among agricultural trading companies seeing
improvements in grain sales. Cargill Inc. said April 10 its unit
that buys and processes crops had a “sharp rebound” in the
three months through February from the preceding quarter.
Agribusiness market conditions are “better” than they were a
few months ago,  Alberto Weisser , the chief executive officer of
U.S. grain processor  Bunge Ltd. (BG) , said April 26.  The earnings were released before the start of regular
trading on U.S. markets. ADM rose 5 percent to $32.37 at 10:24
a.m. in  New York . Earlier it climbed as much as 5.9 percent, the
biggest gain intraday since Aug. 11.  Oilseeds Processing  Operating profit at ADM’s agricultural-services unit, its
largest by revenue, rose $8 million to $179 million on improved
international volume and margin. The business buys and stores
crops including oilseeds, corn and wheat before selling them to
food companies and processors.  Oilseeds processing profit declined 23 percent to $395
million in the quarter after “significant” timing benefits
last year, ADM said. Oilseed processing, which includes making
oils and protein meal from crops such as soybeans, canola and
palm, accounted for 33 percent of ADM’s revenue last year.  Tight South American supplies led to more soybean meal
exports from North America, ADM said. In  South America ,
“favorable positioning and increased farmer selling” helped
its grain buying performance, the company said.  Operating profit at its corn processing unit decreased 36
percent to $130 million because of an oversupply of ethanol and
costs related to the closing of an ADM ethanol facility in  North
Dakota , the company said.  ‘Planting Underway’  Processors of corn into ethanol on average lost 6 cents a
gallon in the first three months of 2012, compared with a 3-cent
gain a year earlier, said Christine Healy, a Toronto-based
analyst for Scotia Capital Inc. The deterioration was due to
higher corn prices, the expiration of tax incentives and reduced
gasoline demand, she said in an April 18 report.  Sweeteners and starches operating profit increased on
export demand and higher prices for high-fructose corn syrup,
ADM said.  “This quarter, we delivered very good results despite
difficult margin environments, particularly in ethanol and
European oilseeds,” ADM Chairman and CEO Patricia Woertz said
in the statement. “Looking ahead, planting is underway in  North
America , and we’re encouraged by the projected corn and soybean
acreage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 