-- ADM Sees Tighter Soybeans, Corn Supplies Later This Year
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-01T18:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/adm-sees-tighter-soybeans-corn-supplies-later-this-year.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
largest grain processor, said supplies of corn and soybeans will
tighten this year after drought hurt crops in  South America  and
demand increases for ethanol.  “It’s going to be difficult to buy beans going forward,
and we will see a reduction in exports as South America will
rationalize what they have,” Craig Huss, ADM’s chief risk
officer, said today during an earnings conference call with
analysts.  Soybean output in South America may be 15 percent smaller
than a year ago after hot, dry weather reduced yields,
increasing demand for supplies from  North America , Juan Luciano,
the chief operating officer for Decatur, Illinois-based ADM,
said on the call.  “We’ve been exporting a little bit more,” Luciano said.
“We see in that window that traditionally new supply shifts to
South America, maybe extending a little bit to the U.S.,”
boosting sales of soybeans and soybeans meal to  China ,  Poland ,
the  Philippines  and other countries, he said.  The U.S. will export at least 2.3 million metric tons of
soybeans to China from June to August, compared with 600,000
tons a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher Oil World said
today in a report.  Rising global demand is encouraging U.S. producers to plant
more this year, according Huss. Farmers will increase corn
sowing by 4.3 percent to the highest in 75 years, while reducing
soybean planting by 1.4 percent to 73.9 million acres, the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  said March 30.  More Acres  Soybeans may be more difficult to purchase later this year
without an increase in planted acreage, Huss said during the
call with analysts following the announcement of third quarter
earnings. Rising prices for the oilseed relative to corn and an
early wheat harvest may increase U.S. planting, he said.  Soybean futures rose to $15.07 a bushel on April 30, the
highest since July 2008. The July contract fell 0.2 percent to
$15.025 a bushel at 12:40 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade,
the first drop in six sessions.  “We are very concerned about it,” Huss said. “We can see
another potentially million acres of beans come back” into
production this year, he said.  Huss said corn supplies will be more difficult for ethanol
producers and feed manufacturers to buy in the next 30 days. The
government has forecast that U.S. corn  inventories  before the
harvest will drop to the lowest since 1996, after adverse
weather reduced yields last year.  “There is dislocation this year” with more crop stored in
the western Midwest than in the eastern growing region, Huss
said. “When you get any kind of flat price breaks, we see
export demand coming, and that tends to give more competition
for those eastern and central plants as they draw the same corn
that the ethanol plants are trying to purchase.”  ADM rose 6.3 percent to $32.76 at 1:42 p.m. in  New York ,
after touching $33.25, the highest since May 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 