-- Madness in Spain Lingers as Ireland Chases Recovery
-- B y   S h a r o n   S m y t h ,   N e i l   C a l l a n a n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 2012-05-02T14:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/madness-in-spain-lingers-as-ireland-chases-recovery-mortgages.html
From atop the stone walls of Avila,
 Spain , a medieval city an hour’s drive northwest of  Madrid ,
beyond the parking lots and empty playgrounds and thousands of
vacant new apartments, a construction crane can be seen moving
on the horizon as building continues.  “Avila isn’t an exception,” said Jesus Encinar, co-
founder of Madrid-based Idealista, Spain’s largest property
website, and an Avila native. “It’s a small-scale example of
the madness that gripped the whole  real estate  industry.”  In the stages of death of a real estate boom, Spain is
still in denial. In Ireland, they’re moving toward acceptance.
The first  auction  of one of 2,000 unfinished housing estates
takes place tomorrow at the Shelbourne Hotel in central Dublin,
with sales expected to fetch cents on the euro, showing the
Irish may be closer to the end than the beginning.  “Ireland faced up to its problems faster than others and
we expect growth there rather soon,” said Cinzia Alcidi, an
analyst at the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels.
“In Spain, there was kind of a denial of the scale of the
problem and it may be faced with many years of significant
challenges before full recovery takes place.”  Spain, Europe’s fifth-largest economy, is the current focus
of attempts to contain the region’s sovereign debt crisis, as
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  struggles to quell speculation it
will need a bailout. Developers are showing similar optimism.
They continue to build even with 2 million homes vacant around
the country, new airports that never saw a single flight being
mothballed, and property appraisers and banks reporting values
have fallen only about 22 percent, said Encinar, who estimates
the real decline is probably at least twice that.  Legacy of Bust  Ireland, where home prices have fallen a record 49 percent
since peaking in 2007, is making more progress as it deals with
the legacy of a bust that crippled its economy, once the most
dynamic in Western Europe, and required a 67.5 billion-euro
international bailout in 2010. The state purged lenders of 74
billion euros ($98 billion) of mostly toxic commercial mortgages
by creating a bad bank, and poured enough cash into the
financial system to make it among the best capitalized in
 Europe . Building virtually halted overnight in 2008 after debt
markets seized up globally.  Spain has so far rejected the bad bank model, even after
 Standard & Poor’s  last week cut the country’s credit rating to
BBB+ from A, on concern the government will need to provide
further support to banks.  Truth About Spain  On the plain below the central walled city of  Avila , a
world heritage site and a popular tourist destination, the
province with a population of 171,680 has about 19,000
apartments and villas empty or unfinished, according to Borja
Mateo, the author of “The Truth About the Spanish Real Estate
Market.”  Ministry of Infrastructure figures show 23,419 homes were
constructed in the decade through 2007, with another 11,000
homes built there since 2008. The sprawling developments are
dotted with thousands of empty parking spaces, while streets
have makeshift barriers where the money has run out, others
simply end in fields.  Miguel Angel Garcia Nieto, mayor of Avila for the past
decade, disagrees that his city has been overbuilt.  “When we approved the first urban plan back in 1998 there
was an unprecedented demand for homes,” Nieto said in a
telephone interview on April 19. “Yes, there is oversupply at
the moment because of the financial crisis and everyone’s gone
back home to live with their parents, but it’s not because there
is lack of demand. When the economy gets back on track I am
confident the supply will be absorbed.”  European Bailouts  That may take decades, said Encinar, after Spain’s  jobless
rate  rose to 24.4 percent in the first quarter, the highest in
almost two decades and the economy is mired in a recession that
the  International Monetary Fund  predicts will cause it to shrink
by 1.8 percent in 2012.  The Spanish real estate bust is the biggest test to date
for European authorities with Spain’s economy almost twice that
of  Greece ,  Portugal  and Ireland combined. Yields on Spain’s 10-
year bonds climbed nine basis points to 5.86 percent from April,
approaching the level of those countries when they had to be
bailed out.  Spain and Ireland are “very similar,” said Angel Mas,
president of European  mortgage insurance  at Genworth Financial
Inc., in an interview in Madrid. “They had never experienced
this cheap credit, same as here. And they experienced a
construction boom that at the beginning was out of necessity,
but they couldn’t stop it.”  Speed of Response  The key difference is the speed in which the two nations
are responding to the collapse. In 2009, Ireland created the
National Asset Management Agency, or NAMA, a so-called bad bank.
It used bonds to buy commercial real estate loans from the banks
with a face value of 74 billion euros for 32 billion euros. That
left banks needing capital, leading the state to pour in cash
and nationalize five of the six biggest lenders.  NAMA is now seeking investors for those assets it can sell,
and forcing debtors to rent out some of the remaining properties
to produce revenue.  Irish  home prices  were unchanged in March, the first month
values have not fallen since August 2010, according to the
country’s statistics office. In Dublin, residential prices rose
0.7 percent in March.  “The big knock to the domestic economy was the fact that
building and construction totally collapsed and that was over 20
percent of the economy and it was bang, gone completely,’”
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in a speech to a
Parliamentary committee on April 25. “It is beginning to move,
it is very tender shoots of growth at the moment.”  Second Recession  While the negative drag from construction in Ireland is
largely over, Spain still has a ways to go,  Alcidi said . The
economy will barely grow next year after contracting in the
fourth-quarter, entering its second recession since 2009. The
Irish economy will expand 0.5 percent this year and 2 percent
next year, the IMF said on April 17.  Still, the empty buildings that pockmark the landscape of
both countries are testament to their similarities.  South of Dublin’s city center lies Sandyford, earmarked as
a new residential quarter at the height of Ireland’s boom.
Instead, two towers lie unfinished, with one covered by a
fraying tarpaulin depicting imaginary residents drinking
cocktails on non-existent balconies. A Bank of Ireland branch at
ground level is one of just a few businesses open in the area.  A glass window in the South Central apartment block’s
marketing suite there has been shattered and the chairs inside
draped with dust covers.  Europe’s Poorest Countries  Sandyford and Avila are reminders of the booms that fueled
both economies and the busts that crippled them. In the 1970s
and 1980s, Spain and Ireland were among the poorest countries in
Europe. Following the creation of the euro, both tapped into
international money to fuel the growth in their real estate
markets.  Prices doubled in Spain in the decade through 2007. Irish
 house prices  more than quadrupled from 1995 to 2005 to an
average of 303,247 euros, the fastest growth among 18 countries
surveyed by the Paris-based Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development.  “It was avarice,” said James Nugent, managing director of
Dublin-based real-estate broker Lisney. “You just had to get as
much of it as you could possibly get your hands on. Credit
wasn’t a problem, the banks were throwing money at people.”  Former Irish Minister Tom Parlon recalls putting a 2.1 acre
site of the state’s veterinary college in Dublin’s embassy belt
of Ballsbridge up for sale in 2005.  ‘Wildest Dreams’  “We thought in our wildest dreams that maybe it might make
100 million euros, which was a crazy price,” he said. “When
the bids were opened there was a bid of 171 million euros and
the developer was backed up by one of our main banks. That was
just a flavor of the madness.”  The site is currently being used by a local luxury car
dealer, MSL Ballsbridge Motors, to store vehicles, mainly
Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz models.  On the northern outskirts of Madrid, near Barajas airport
and the Real Madrid soccer team’s training ground, is
Valdebebas, a development project under construction covering
more than 10.6 million square meters of space. About 5,400 of
the planned 12,500 homes have been built and another 2,100 are
under construction, according to a spokesman for the project who
declined to be identified by name, citing company policy. The
development, which belongs to private land owners who pooled
their property, is backed by banks including Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA and  Aareal Bank AG. (ARL)  There are bus tours on
Saturday for potential buyers, and an open house of the model
homes every Sunday.  Longer Adjustment  “In Spain, there seemed to be an effort to smooth out the
pace of activity rather than face the shock, as Ireland did,”
said Alcidi. “That means the adjustment is going to take much
longer in Spain.”  At the height of their respective real estate booms,
construction accounted for more than 20 percent of the economies
of both Spain and Ireland. In Spain, the figure is now about 14
percent, according to Alcidi. In Ireland, the figure is just 5
percent.  Both booms also were fueled by incentives. In Ireland, the
government gave investors tax breaks to build in certain areas,
and granted homeowners breaks on their interest payments. In
Spain, there were incentives for municipalities to approve land
for development because they could keep 10 percent of all the
land they reclassified. The towns would get revenue from the
developments and they could use the land they acquired as
collateral for loans, said Encinar.  ‘Drunk on the Revenue’  About 230,000, or about two-thirds, of Irish construction
jobs have gone since 2007. Home building will hit an all time
low this year, with just 1 house per 1,000 people being built,
compared with 15 in the 2000s, according to the Society of
Chartered Surveyors Ireland.  “It was a mania,” said Parlon, the former Irish
government minister who now heads the Construction Industry
Federation. “You could say the government was drunk on the
revenue that was coming from all the construction taxes.”  In other respects, too, the Irish are moving to deal with
the overhang of vacant properties. On Dublin’s north quays lies
a half-completed, eight-story skeleton of an office block. Anglo
Irish Bank Corp. had planned to use the tower as its
headquarters before the company’s collapse helped push Ireland
toward the international bailout the country agreed in 2010.  Visible Wound  It was constructed by Liam Carroll, one of the country’s
biggest developers, who has seen many of his assets seized by
banks.  The skeleton office block is “becoming a landscape photo
for Ireland internationally,”  Brendan McDonagh , NAMA’s chief
executive officer, told lawmakers on Oct. 26. “Everybody who
comes to Dublin to see us wants to see the Anglo Irish Bank
building; they ask the taxis to bring them around,” he said.
“It is a landscape eyesore and it needs to be dealt with.”  Ireland’s central bank has agreed to pay about 8 million
euros ($10 million) for the office block, and will make the
tower its headquarters, removing the most visible wound of the
crash. In all, about 15 percent of Irish homes were vacant in
2011, the country’s statistics office. About 20 percent of
 office space  in Dublin is vacant.  In places like Sandyford, NAMA is behind the rental of
about 1,000 properties, as it seeks to make it more attractive
to sell towers of apartments to investors. The agency is also
enticing buyers for homes by effectively insuring against price
declines.  ‘Stabilize and Recover’  NAMA is finishing a plan to ask individual buyers for 80
percent of the purchase price at the time of the transaction and
only collect the remaining 20 percent if the market value
remained the same or increased by a certain amount. If the value
fell, the purchaser would have to pay only part of the
outstanding amount or, in some cases, nothing at all.  “The banking system is in a lot better shape than it was
two years ago but there is a road still to be travelled,”
McDonagh said in an interview. “What you’re trying to do is
balance out and give yourself a chance for the Irish market to
stabilize and recover.”  McDonagh has said the agency may end up bulldozing some of
the ghost estates that litter the country. Two estates
controlled by NAMA may be demolished, and the agency used laws
for the first time last month to take control of a development
to stop it from falling into a dangerous state.  ‘Eyes on This Sale’  Others may end up at distressed  property auctions  run by
Allsop, whose previous auctions have drawn crowds of hundreds.
At one point, the company had to employ security guards to
marshal bidders, and broadcast the sale to the overflow crowd
watching at Doheny & Nesbitts, one of the city’s best known
bars.  Now they are readying for their first sale of an unfinished
estate at the Shelbourne Hotel, where the Irish constitution was
drafted in 1922. The lot, in Cavan, consists of three unfinished
houses and a field with planning permission for another 31
homes.  “There will be a lot of eyes on this sale,” said Robert
Hoban, director at auctions at Allsop. “‘It is representative
of a large number of unfinished developments across the country
that people are trying to find a solution to.”  Shunned Bad Bank  Spain shunned proposals to create a bad bank like NAMA to
acquire toxic real estate assets, with Economy Minister Luis de Guindos saying this week the nation won’t seek a European
bailout for its lenders. Instead, authorities pushed banks to
pay for the clean up by absorbing weaker lenders. Spanish banks
hold about 329,000 foreclosed homes, helping to prevent steep
price declines, and provide 100 percent financing on easy terms
such as interest-only payments for up to three years, for buyers
who agree to buy the banks’ properties.  “Banks are employing financing like a weapon of mass
destruction to sell their stock and keep prices artificially
high by using high loan-to-value mortgages,” said Mikel Echavarren, chairman of Irea, a corporate  finance company  that
specializes in the real estate industry. “Today in Spain it’s
easier to buy a 200,000 euro flat from a bank with 100 percent
financing than buy a 150,000 flat from an individual homeowner
where you have to have a 20 percent deposit.”  ‘Coffee All Around’  The psychological shock in Spain stems in part from the
length of the boom, which stretched more than a decade, said
Encinar. After the country made the transition from the
dictatorship of Generalissimo  Francisco Franco , who ruled from
the end of the Spanish civil war in 1939 until his death in
1975, to a modern European democracy, economic expansion and
home price growth were driven by a succession of developments
over the next four decades: women joining the workforce, slowing
inflation, the adoption of the euro and the growth of tourism
and increasing property purchases by foreign buyers, mainly in
coastal areas.  Governmental authority also moved to regions and
municipalities. The decentralization was nicknamed “cafe para
todos” or “coffee all around,” and Spain’s autonomous
communities demanded self-government and greater control over
issues such as health and education, and taxes and financing.
And many local governments were eager to build.  “It took 20 centuries for the center of Avila to be
developed, and in the last 10 years they’ve developed twice that
amount,” said Natalio Encinar, a brother of Jesus Encinar who
still lives in Avila. Until demand collapsed, “the main
industry here was building houses. And plumbers made more than
engineers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Smyth in Madrid at 
 ssmyth2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 