-- Lafarge, Anglo U.K. Venture Requires Asset Sales, Regulator Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-05-01T06:50:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/lafarge-anglo-u-k-venture-requires-asset-sales-regulator-says.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Lafarge SA (LG) ’s
proposed $2.9 billion U.K. venture will need to sell assets as
it could harm competition in the market for cement and other
construction materials, the  Competition Commission  said.  Anglo and Lafarge will be required to dispose of “a
significant portfolio of operations, paving the way for entry by
a new competitor into the U.K. cement market, before their
proposed construction materials joint venture can go ahead,”
the Commission said in a statement today.  The venture could increase the danger of “coordination in
the market” for bulk cement, and would reduce competition for
asphalt and ready-mix concrete. The combination must sell a
cement plant in Derbyshire, more than half the group’s ready-mix
cement capacity, six aggregate quarries and two asphalt plants.
Stakes in two quarries and five aggregate plants Anglo owns
through Midlands Quarry Products will also have to be sold.  The creation of the 50-50 venture, intended to help the
companies withstand a decline in Britain’s construction
industry, would create a business with 1.8 billion pounds ($2.9
billion) in sales and annual cost savings of at least 60 million
pounds, they said in a joint statement in February 2011.  Lafarge Chief Executive Officer Bruno Lafont plans to sell
more than 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) of assets this year and
deepen cost cuts amid higher raw material prices as he seeks to
repair a  credit rating  that has fallen below investment grade.
Cement demand in the U.K. may drop as much as 5 percent this
year because of austerity measures and slowing economic growth,
Paris-based Lafarge predicted on Feb. 17.  Anglo, Lafarge Confident  “The approval is subject to a number of conditions which
we are confident the parties can meet,” London-based Anglo said
in an e-mailed statement today.“We look forward to working with
the regulators on the effective implementation of the
undertakings and the conclusion of the JV as soon as
practicable.”  The venture is intended to absorb Anglo’s Tarmac unit in
the U.K. as the miner of copper and iron ore exits the materials
business, the company said last year.  The British Aggregates Association trade group has said the
U.K. market is dominated by Anglo American,  Germany ’s
 HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , Switzerland’s  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , Lafarge and
 Mexico ’s Cemex SAB.  “Whilst certain assets will require divestment, the
combination of the two businesses is expected to deliver
recurring synergies through increased operational efficiencies,
improved logistics and value-added products,” Lafarge said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  