-- Afghan Corruption Haunts U.S. Efforts to Cede Leadership
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-05-01T23:48:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/afghan-corruption-haunts-u-s-efforts-to-cede-leadership.html
The U.S. is renewing efforts to
staunch corruption in  Afghanistan  by reducing the corrosive 
effects of the money it’s pouring into the country, a
State Department official said.  The U.S. shut down one project that was using Afghan
officials to review corruption cases because they were
exploiting it to pick up tips on how to cheat, according to the
official, who briefed reporters at the Pentagon yesterday on
condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  Corruption was among the “long-term and acute challenges”
cited this week in the Defense Department’s semi-annual report
to Congress on the war in Afghanistan. The report struck a
dissonant note as President  Barack Obama  spoke of “the light of
a new day” in Afghanistan today. He signed a strategic
partnership agreement with President  Hamid Karzai  as a prelude
to the planned withdrawal of U.S. military disengagement from
the decade-long war there by the end of 2014.  “Every day seems to widen the gap between the goals the
 United States  is seeking to achieve in Afghanistan and its
ability to achieve them,”  Anthony Cordesman , a military analyst
at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy
research group in Washington, said in a note yesterday.  The solutions for giving Afghans a measure of security and
stability in the future “are not pleasant or anywhere near as
reassuring as the statements coming out of the” U.S. or the
coalition fighting in Afghanistan, he wrote.  Steering the Money  In the attempt to thwart corruption, the U.S. steers
funding to Afghan ministries deemed to be effective and away
from those that fail to meet certain standards, according to the
State Department official.  Effective Afghan ministries include those in charge of
mining, finance, foreign affairs, commerce, counter-narcotics
and rural and local government, the official said in a brief
interview. The Ministry of Transportation remains troubled, so
the U.S. works with other offices on projects such as rail
system improvements that aid commerce, the official said.  Karzai’s government faces a deadline in the case of illegal
insider loans revealed two years ago at Kabul Bank, the nation’s
biggest commercial bank, the official said. The government must
take action toward prosecutions and recovering assets before a
donor conference scheduled for  Tokyo  in July, the official said.
Depositors lost more than $800 million in that case.  ‘Setbacks in Governance’  While the Pentagon’s report described the Obama
administration’s strategy in Afghanistan as “sound,” many of
its findings contradict accounts of progress that officials say
will let them withdraw most of the coalition’s 128,000 remaining
personnel by the end of 2014.  “Setbacks in governance and development continue to slow
the reinforcement of security gains,” the Defense Department
concluded in its report. Such failures “threaten the legitimacy
and long-term viability of the Afghan government,” the report’s
authors said.  U.S. and Afghan officials have said for years that American
aid to Afghanistan is an impetus for corruption. The U.S. plans
to spend $90 billion on military operations in Afghanistan this
year, along with $16 billion on aid, including training and
equipment.  “Corruption remains a major threat to the reconstruction
effort,” Steven Trent, the acting special inspector general for
Afghanistan reconstruction, wrote in an April 30 quarterly
report to Congress.  About 30 percent of his office’s investigations involve
public corruption and bribery, Trent said. During the quarter,
his office worked with other U.S. and Afghan law enforcement
offices to recover $446,000 in stolen fuel and $175,000 in cash
in cases involving Afghan attempts to bribe U.S. officials.  The U.S. can’t properly track cash aid to Afghanistan used
to develop the country’s financial sector, in part because
Karzai and other officials don’t fully cooperate, Trent’s
predecessor said in a statement in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  