-- Alesco Jumps Most in 30 Years After Bid: Sydney Mover
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-05-01T07:46:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/alesco-jumps-most-in-30-years-after-bid-sydney-mover.html
Alesco Corp. (ALS) , an Australian garage
door maker, surged the most in 30 years after  DuluxGroup Ltd. (DLX) 
said it bought a stake and plans to make a takeover bid that
values the company at A$188 million ($196 million).  The stock rose 43 percent to A$2 at the close of Sydney
trading, the biggest daily gain since 1982. DuluxGroup bought 20
percent of Alesco for A$2 a share from existing shareholders and
plans to bid for the rest at the same price, it said in a
statement today.  DuluxGroup expects the takeover to increase earnings in the
first full year of ownership and bolster growth by adding
Alesco’s construction materials to  Australia ’s largest paint
producer. The bid is the biggest by the Melbourne-based company
since it was spun off from  Orica Ltd. (ORI)  in July 2010.  “The addition of Alesco would provide DuluxGroup with new
platforms for future growth,” DuluxGroup Chief Executive
Officer Patrick Houlihan said today in the statement.  Alesco told shareholders not to take any action on the bid
and its board will consider the offer “in due course” after
only being advised by DuluxGroup of the proposed offer today, it
said in a separate statement.  Sydney-based Alesco appointed  Greenhill Caliburn Pty. (GHL)  to
advise it on the offer.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  is advising
DuluxGroup.  Conditional Offer  The offer for Alesco, whose shares had slumped 57 percent
in the 12 months before today, is conditional on acquiring 90
percent of the stock. Dulux shares slipped 4.2 percent to A$2.97
at the close of Sydney trading.  Dulux had been assessing Alesco for about a year and if
successful will consider the sale of its cabinet and window
products unit, Houlihan said on a conference call.  The acquisition would reduce the company’s reliance on
retail sales to consumers and increase the  proportion of revenue 
it gets from trade clients, such as builders, to 60 percent from
45 percent previously, Houlihan told reporters. Some of the
Alesco’s A$5 million in corporate costs would be saved by the
combination, he said.  DuluxGroup has a new debt facility of A$270 million to help
fund the transaction, it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  