-- Allot Surges on Ortiva Buy as Net Tops Estimates: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-05-01T14:05:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/allot-surges-on-ortiva-buy-as-net-tops-estimates-tel-aviv-mover.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  rallied to a
record after the Israeli maker of high-speed networking
equipment said it was buying Ortiva Wireless Inc. and as the
company’s first-quarter profit and sales beat estimates.  Shares of the Hod Hasharon, Israel-based company advanced
as much as 18 percent and closed 7.9 percent up at 99.05
shekels, the equivalent of $26.23, in Tel Aviv, the highest
since December 2010 when the stock was listed in  Israel . The TA-
25 index gained 0.2 percent.  Allot said today it agreed to buy  La Jolla , California-
based Ortiva Wireless, a developer of mobile video technology,
for an undisclosed sum. The company’s first-quarter net income
doubled to $3.2 million as revenue climbed 41 percent to $24.2
million, it said. Profit beat the average $2.95 million  forecast
of eight analysts  compiled by Bloomberg while sales topped the
$21.4 million forecast of 10 analysts.  “The strong numbers are indicative of the company’s strong
momentum in the network traffic-management space,”  Daniel Meron , an analyst for  RBC Capital Markets  in Tel Aviv, said by
phone today. “Ortiva is a complementary acquisition.”  Ortiva’s technology enables mobile service providers to
manage increasing volume of video traffic on their networks,
Allot said in a statement. As more people use smartphones and
computer tablets, rising demand for Allot’s technology to manage
traffic on networks has driven the share price up  65 percent
this year . The stock trades at 47 times estimated earnings,
compared with an average of 11 times for companies traded on the
benchmark  TA-25 index .  “Revenues continued to grow during the quarter as we
continue to see a healthy inflow of both new and expansion
orders,” Allot President and Chief Executive Officer Rami Hadar
said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  