-- Anadarko Fights Ailing Preacher in $25 Billion EPA Toxic Lawsuit
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/anadarko-fights-ailing-preacher-in-25-billion-epa-toxic-lawsuit.html
Reverend Steven Jamison recalls the
February day 13 years ago when he was digging ditches to replace
culverts at his Maranatha Faith Center in Columbus,  Mississippi .
As he switched from a shovel to an excavator, an oily black
substance began to fill the trench. It smelled like turpentine,
and the deeper he dug, the more he saw, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its June issue.  “We called the city right away to come and look,” says
Jamison, 58, a Pentecostal minister whose speech quickens as he
relives the incident. “They told us they thought we’d hit
creosote.”  Jamison phoned the Kerr-McGee Corp. plant down the road.
The company produced creosote, a toxic wood preservative, and
coated railroad ties and telephone poles with it. A manager told
him the stuff probably wasn’t creosote and that even if it were,
it wouldn’t hurt anyone, Jamison says. So he kept working,
immersing himself in sludge and bringing in dirt to absorb it.  After digging for six weeks, Jamison, who says he hadn’t
had health problems beforehand, was sick and losing weight. He
says his kidneys were functioning at less than a third of their
normal level. That April, when Kerr-McGee offered to help remove
the old culverts, the crew arrived in hazmat suits, Jamison
says.  U.S. Lawsuit  The  U.S. Department of Justice , in a lawsuit on behalf of
the Environmental Protection Agency and other environmental and
state agencies, says Kerr-McGee fouled 2,772 sites, including
Columbus, during seven decades of producing chemicals,
fertilizer and plutonium pellets. The lawsuit, scheduled for
trial beginning May 15, seeks $25 billion to clean up the toxins
and compensate tort claimants -- or the people who say they’ve
been personally harmed.  “That is by far the biggest polluter on record,” says
David Guest, an attorney with nonprofit law firm Earthjustice.
“This is an almost unprecedented case in terms of how much
money is in play.”  Trouble is, Kerr-McGee no longer exists. It disappeared in
a spinoff, a merger -- into  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  -- and a
bankruptcy, corporate maneuvers that have frustrated small-town
residents across the country who say the pollution has ruined
their health.  For decades, companies have used such tactics to make it
harder to pursue legal action so they won’t have to pay for
tainting the land and making people sick, says Robert Gordon, a
partner in New York law firm Weitz & Luxenberg, which
specializes in mass-tort and wrongful injury suits. Gordon
compares such tactics to a card game that dealers use to cheat
victims.  ‘Three-Card Monte’  “Establishing liability can be like three-card monte,” he
says. “‘Oh, sorry. You got the wrong corporation. Oh, sorry.
You got the wrong corporation again.’”  Weitz & Luxenberg
represents business owners and residents in suits against BP Plc
and other companies, including Anadarko, related to the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill.  The case, scheduled for  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan ,
will test whether the government can recover money years later
from a successor to a polluting company, even when a bankruptcy
has ostensibly cleaned the slate.  The lawsuit says The Woodlands, Texas-based Anadarko, the
company that bought a piece of Kerr-McGee in 2006, is
responsible because it was part of a “two-step fraudulent
scheme” that transferred $15 billion in assets out of Kerr-
McGee.  The U.S. is seeking that amount from Anadarko, plus another
$10 billion to cover interest and appreciation since 2005,
according to a lawyer involved in the case.  Not Responsible  Anadarko, among the biggest U.S. independent oil and gas
companies by  market value , says it’s not responsible for Kerr-
McGee’s old liabilities. In July 31, 2009, court papers that
sought, and failed, to have the suit dismissed, Anadarko said
the lawsuit is trying to rewrite history. The company estimated
in a March slide show for investors that the suit will cost
about $250 million -- 1 percent of what the EPA is seeking.  “We conduct our business with the utmost integrity, and we
are confident in the merits of our case,” Anadarko General
Counsel Bobby Reeves said in a March 15 statement.  On April 30, Anadarko said first-quarter profit rose to
$2.16 billion on higher crude  oil prices  and a tax-settlement
gain. It said it took an additional $275 million charge for the
lawsuit, bringing the total for estimated costs to $525 million.  “We’re confident in the merits of our case and also
recognize there is value in removing uncertainty for our
shareholders,” spokesman Brian Cain said after the report. “If
a settlement is not reached, we are prepared to defend our
interests at trial.” The company declined to comment further.
Anadarko shares traded at $73.21, down 4.1 percent for the year.  Kerr-McGee Past  Kerr-McGee, founded in 1929 near Oklahoma City, has left a
toxic legacy that stretches from uranium mines in the West to
wood treatment plants in Mississippi and  Pennsylvania , the EPA
says. The company became notorious in the 1970s when labor
activist Karen Silkwood died mysteriously after claiming that
Kerr-McGee was contaminating her and others at its nuclear
materials plant near Crescent, Oklahoma.  Starting in 2000, Jamison and about 5,100 other Columbus,
Mississippi, residents sued Kerr-McGee for alleged creosote
damage. In 2003, Kerr-McGee closed the plant, which now stands
abandoned on a 90-acre (36-hectare) tract of parched grass
surrounded by a chain-link fence. Three years later, the company
transferred most of its environmental liabilities, along with
its pigment-making unit, to a new company called  Tronox Inc. (TROX)  In
June 2006, three months after the spinoff was complete, Kerr-
McGee sold its profitable oil and gas business for $18 billion
to Anadarko.  Tronox Bankruptcy  Tronox declared bankruptcy in 2009. It said it was spending
as much as $126 million a year on Kerr-McGee’s old environmental
messes and had spent $27 million on related tort claims since
its spinoff.  Tronox then sued Anadarko, claiming in the suit that in
2001, Kerr-McGee had begun to separate oil and gas assets from
toxic liabilities and in 2005 launched the bad stuff onto share-
holders through an initial public offering of Tronox. Top
managers and the most-profitable assets went to Anadarko, it
said.  The  Justice Department  joined the lawsuit, saying the U.S.
was the victim of any sham transfer and should get that money
back because it was owed unknown billions for pollution that
Kerr-McGee had refused to clean up, making it Tronox’s
largest creditor.  ‘Die Is Cast’  A 2010 settlement between the EPA and Tronox cleared Tronox
to exit bankruptcy with its pigment unit intact and 70 years’
worth of liabilities wiped out.  Tronox paid the EPA $320 million and agreed that the EPA
and state environmental agencies would get 88 percent of
whatever could be recovered from Anadarko for toxic cleanups.
The settlement set up trusts to collect and distribute any money
awarded from the $25 billion suit.  The May trial will bring Jamison closer to resolving his
12-year quest for compensation. He and 8,100 others across the
country who seek a total of $2 billion are in line for the
remaining 12 percent of what the U.S. wins. To do so, they must
meet strict guidelines. They must have filed suits for personal
injuries before Tronox exited bankruptcy last year and proved
they suffer from one of 10 illnesses.  Out of Luck  Even if evidence in the trial establishes new sources of
pollution or phony asset transfers, that won’t help, says
Matthew Garretson, whose Garretson Resolution Group oversees the
trust for tort claims. “The die is already cast,” he says. He
declined to say whether lawsuits such as Jamison’s meet the
requirements.  Thousands of other people who say Kerr-McGee caused their
injuries are already out of luck. Some missed deadlines, didn’t
follow legal procedures or couldn’t afford medical tests to link
their illnesses to alleged toxins. Many settled for pittances
because they were sick, needed money or were afraid they’d die
before heading to court.  Bankruptcy made things worse, because the cost to bring
suits isn’t worthwhile unless there can be a recovery, says
Robert Rabin, a law professor at  Stanford University  in Palo
Alto,  California , who specializes in tort law.  The government case against Anadarko seeks to prove that
Kerr-McGee carried out a sham transfer with the intent of
escaping a toxic past and placing oil and gas assets beyond the
reach of potential claimants.  The U.S. says Kerr-McGee never revealed the extent of its
polluting properties and had internally referred to at least 11
locations where it treated wood as “secret sites.”  ‘Secret Sites’  The sites, along with hundreds of other polluted
properties, were hidden even from most Kerr-McGee employees and
not discovered until after Tronox filed for bankruptcy,
according to the lawsuit.  Because the toxic locations were “secret,” an unknown
number of people who may be suffering today would have had no
way of tracing their ailments to Kerr-McGee, says John Hueston,
who is overseeing legal strategy for the lawsuit.  “Kerr-McGee took steps to ensure that both the EPA and
other potential claimants would not know or discover polluted
sites in a timely fashion,” says Hueston, who was a federal
prosecutor in the trial of Enron Corp. executives Kenneth Lay
and Jeffrey Skilling. “A challenge in the case will be the
defense from Anadarko that many of these sites were unknown to
it and Kerr-McGee.”  Burnt Rubber  Jamison, whose booming voice and confident posture belie
his health complaints, says he’s sure the Kerr-McGee plant in
Columbus is responsible for his ailments -- and for the creosote
fouling the church property and parts of the community. He says
his joints are swollen, and he keeps to a strict diet with
plenty of fresh juices to avoid needing dialysis for his damaged
kidneys.  Even today, a smell like burnt rubber and tar intensifies
the closer a visitor comes to the fenced-off expanse of the
abandoned plant. A ditch carries a stream of dark water down a
road, under a bridge and across to the Maranatha Faith Center
before curling through ball fields and emptying into Luxapalila
Creek.  Ruby White and Ethel Toney, sisters in their mid-60s, live
in one-story homes on Shady Street, separated from the plant by
another row of houses. The women can’t afford to move. White,
sitting in her sparse living room where an air conditioner
blocks a small window, looks decades older as she sucks on
oxygen to breathe. Pulmonary fibrosis has scarred her lungs for
at least 15 years, and she’s had  breast cancer  for two, she
says.  Toxic Blackberries?  Toney attributes the mouth cancer that makes it hard for
her to enunciate to her childhood habit of eating blackberries
that grew near railroad tracks around the plant.  Others in the  town  of about 25,000 just west of the Alabama
border blame creosote for problems from miscarriages to itchy
skin. A Kerr-McGee predecessor called T.J. Moss Tie Co. began
producing it in Columbus in 1928, according to court papers.
Creosote contains at least 300 chemicals and can cause skin
irritation, convulsions, confusion, kidney and liver problems,
skin and scrotum cancer and death, according to the Agency for
Toxic Substances and Disease Registry.  Jamison began his battle long before Kerr-McGee disappeared
into Tronox and Anadarko. He sued Kerr-McGee in a Mississippi
court in 2000. About 4,400 residents, including White and Toney,
settled claims for property damage or personal injury for $50
million, according to lawyer Wilbur Colom, who worked on the
case. White says she collected $12,000 of a promised $19,000 and
says the money is mostly gone. Jamison and a handful of others
held out for more.  People Are Dead  Colom says he faced a big dilemma when he counseled clients
whether to settle around 2002. Some were so sick that he advised
them to take a payout sooner rather than endure drawn-out court
proceedings.  “Ten years later, all of the people who had serious
cancers are dead,” Colom says, reviewing thousands of names
next to such entries as “sarcoidosis with renal involvement,”
“lung and  colon cancer ” and “dec’d ovarian cancer,” meaning
deceased.  Jamison struggled with the temptation to settle too. He
says lawyers for Kerr-McGee offered him $3 million to drop the
lawsuit he brought on behalf of his church and not tell anyone
he thought the tarry substance was harming people and properties
around the plant.  ‘God’s Love’  “I said, I’m a preacher. I preach God’s love,” he
recalls. “How can I preach that to people and know they are in
harm’s way and not tell anyone?”  Jamison says lawyers then offered $4 million. He turned
that down. By then, he’d seen the 1983 movie “Silkwood,”
starring Meryl Streep. The film showed Silkwood’s suspicious
death in a 1974 car accident as she was driving to meet a
reporter and go public with her story that Kerr-McGee was
exposing employees to plutonium through poor safety standards.
Jamison says he was afraid of what a company that powerful might
do to someone who had damaging information.  “So I called a press conference and told everyone what I
had found,” he says.  Jamison has hit roadblocks since. His first frustration
arose in proving where the creosote came from and that there was
enough to cause injuries. He and his lawyers eventually paid for
tests to show creosote existed at the church, while Kerr-McGee
disputed what chemicals were present in what concentrations, he
says.  Sarcoidosis and Cancer  He has had to resubmit his lawsuit at least twice. In 2005,
as Kerr-McGee was preparing the spinoff into Tronox, it said a
unit called Kerr-McGee Chemical Worldwide LLC was the correct
target. After the spinoff, the defendant became Tronox. When
Tronox entered Chapter 11, Jamison had to move his case to
federal  bankruptcy court  in Manhattan.  Jamison says creosote is still damaging Columbus because
the soil remains saturated. People are sick and their medical
bills have surpassed their settlements, he says.  Connie Davis says her mother, Hattie Baldwin, has
sarcoidosis, which formed nodes in her lungs and has left her
using a portable oxygen tank. Davis, 63, lost a 19-year-old son
to cardiac arrhythmia. Ann White, in her early 50s, is surviving
breast cancer. The breast cancer rate in Columbus was 2.65 times
the national average, according to a 2006 report by Patricia
Williams, a coordinator of toxic research labs at the University
of  New Orleans .  ‘Mississippi Still Burning’  Ruth Joiner blames digestive problems and a benign tumor on
more than 40 years of living near the plant. She missed a
deadline to submit a claim for compensation because she didn’t
know she had to file before Tronox’s bankruptcy ended.  “Why were they bankrupt before we got paid?” Joiner, 65,
asks. “They say they got nothing left, but we’ve got our health
left -- our messed-up health.”  Jamison says Columbus’s black population, which lives
closest to the foul-smelling plant and which had worked in its
yards, has suffered most.  “Mississippi is still burning,” he says. “There are poor
people of color dying.”  In Hattiesburg, Mississippi, about 200 miles (320
kilometers) south, people settled with Kerr-McGee long ago --
and for a pittance.  In 2003, 1,490 of 3,300 claimants who say they were harmed
by the wood treatment plant in their town got $600,000, or an
average of $402.68 per person, a 2006 Tronox filing with the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission shows. Another 1,335
claims were settled for an undisclosed amount. A judge dismissed
the rest because plaintiffs failed to pay filing fees or
disclose enough information, according to the filing.  Avoca, Pennsylvania  In Avoca, Pennsylvania, residents won more -- but have yet
to see the money. Twenty-four people sued Kerr-McGee in 2005,
saying chemicals from a plant that had used creosote from 1956
to 1996 caused skin and  lung cancer , asthma and other diseases.
By 2007, the suit had grown to 3,700 plaintiffs.  In May 2007, Tronox, which by then had assumed Kerr-McGee
assets, agreed to negotiate. It set aside $4 million, saying it
would increase the amount as needed when an arbitrator decided
the awards, according to the confidential arbitration agreement
viewed by Bloomberg News. The agreement says Tronox must pay any
award within 30 days and can’t appeal any decision.  The court-appointed arbitrator awarded eight skin cancer
sufferers $45,000 to $300,000 apiece on Oct. 2, 2008, according
to court documents. Tronox filed motions in the Luzerne County
Court of Common Pleas to reconsider, violating the requirement
about not appealing. After that, it didn’t pay, according to
papers in the arbitration agreement.  Navajos Suffering  In April, as the trial approached, Anadarko argued to
exclude testimony by three witnesses from Avoca, court papers
show. One of them, David Perks, says his bladder cancer had been
caused by living near the Kerr-McGee plant since 1977 and
coaching  Little League  for 16 years on creosote-soaked fields.  Teddy Nez, who lives outside Gallup, New Mexico, is
fighting colon cancer and respiratory difficulties he says were
caused by uranium from Kerr-McGee’s mines dating to the 1940s.  He and others in the Navajo Nation that stretches through
New Mexico,  Arizona  and  Utah  couldn’t afford medical tests to
prove radiation caused their illnesses. Because no one filed
tort claims, there won’t be any money from the U.S. lawsuit to
defray medical costs for Nez and others, says David Taylor, a
lawyer for the Navajo Nation Department of Justice.  “Every time we ask about the health problems, they say you
need a study,” Nez says. “We don’t have any money for a health
study.”  Silkwood Legacy  The Navajos will at least benefit in one way: 23 percent of
what the U.S. recovers for cleanup costs in the $25 billion suit
will go to 51 uranium mines or exploration sites on their
territory. Avoca, Columbus and Karen Silkwood’s former Oklahoma
plant are also in line for payouts.  As with Silkwood’s 1974 death, the full story of Kerr-
McGee’s 2,772 allegedly polluted sites may never be known.  “There’s a shockingly large magnitude of liabilities
stretching across the nation,” legal strategist Hueston says.  Thirteen years after striking creosote, Jamison is waiting
to find out whether his lawsuit will be considered in any
recovery. Sitting on a wooden pew in his empty church, he says
he hopes the trial will finally rectify the miscarriages of
justice against small-town citizens who’ve suffered for years
while battling an ever-shifting corporate foe. For others who
haven’t had the fortitude or the finances to keep up the fight,
it’s already too late.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
adversary case is 09-01198, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  