-- Strategists Who Called Bottom in China Stocks Now Say Buy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-02T07:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/analysts-who-called-2010-bottom-in-china-stocks-now-say-buy-1-.html
China’s longest  bear market  since 2005
is ending as government efforts to bolster the economy spur a
rally in stocks, say the strategists whose buy recommendations
two years ago preceded a 34 percent gain in the  Shanghai
Composite Index. (SHCOMP)   While the Communist Party cut its economic expansion target
in March, Morgan Stanley Huaxin Securities and Guotai Junan
Securities Co. say  growth  is rebounding from the slowest pace
since 2009 as policy makers ease lending curbs. Value Investment
Principals predicts stocks that benefit most from a buoyant
economy will lead  gains  after they tumbled during the Shanghai
Composite’s 423-day bear market. The retreat ranks as the
second-longest since 1990, according to Birinyi Associates Inc.  “We’re definitely going to have a major bull market
ahead,” Jerry Lou, the chief strategy officer at Morgan Stanley
Huaxin in Shanghai, said in an April 24 phone interview.  The Shanghai Composite has rallied 14 percent from this
year’s nadir on Jan. 5 as reports on  bank lending  and
manufacturing spurred investors to snap up shares trading at the
 cheapest  levels on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The gauge of mainland-listed stocks restricted to
local investors and qualified foreign institutional money
managers is still 61 percent below its 2007  peak  after closing
at 2,396.32 on April 27. The index rose 1.8 percent to 2,438.44
at the close today.  Rally Forecasts  Lou, who advised buying stocks five days before the
Shanghai Composite’s last bear market ended on July 5, 2010,
says the index may rally another 30 percent this year as lower
 reserve requirements  boost bank shares. The gauge may hit 2,800
by the end of the second quarter, Shi Weixiang, a strategist at
Guotai Junan, said in an April 24 phone interview. The brokerage
predicted as early as March 2010 that stocks would bottom around
July of that year.  Sandy Mehta, the chief executive officer of Value
Investment Principals in  Hong Kong , said he favors property
companies, automakers and commodity producers. Mehta forecast
the second-half rally in 2010.  “Sectors that will do best have been laggards, where
investors are most bearish,” he said in an e-mailed response to
questions on April 24.  Optimists are placing too much faith in the ability of
Chinese policy makers to cushion the world’s second-biggest
economy from slumps in investment and real estate, the largest
drivers of growth,  Albert Edwards , a London-based strategist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in an April 19 report. Edwards warned
that the 1990s boom in Asian economies was unsustainable before
a financial crisis engulfed the countries in 1997.  Wen’s Target  Growth in  China ’s  fixed-asset investment  slowed to 20.9
percent in the first quarter, the weakest pace since December
2002, while  home prices  fell in a record 37 of 70 cities tracked
by the government. Fixed-asset investment accounts for about 54
percent of  China’s economy  while housing construction comprises
at least 10 percent, according to estimates by the Central
Intelligence Agency World Factbook and Credit Suisse Group AG.  China’s gross domestic product increased at an 8.1 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, down from 9.7 percent a year
earlier. Average  profit growth  at companies in the Shanghai
Composite slowed to 6.1 percent from 40 percent during the same
period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Premier  Wen Jiabao , who is trying to cut China’s reliance
on exports and increase consumption, said on March 5 that policy
makers have reduced their growth target to 7.5 percent from the
8 percent goal in place since 2005.  Slowing BRICs  Longer-term growth rates in China, as well as in  Brazil ,
 Russia  and  India , are poised to drop as their working-age
populations increase more slowly before shrinking, according to
a December report by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., which coined the
BRIC moniker in 2001 to describe the four biggest emerging
economies.  “The growth model is facing a bottleneck,” Gou Kaihong, a
 fund manager  who helps oversee about 5 billion  yuan  ($795
million) at Lombarda China Fund Management Co., said in a phone
interview on April 23. Gou’s Lombarda China New Momentum fund
has returned 17 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The economy may already be accelerating as the government
pares back restrictions on lending and investment, according to
Mehta, the CEO of Value Investment Principals, an investment
advisory company.  Lending Surge  New loans by Chinese banks surged 49 percent from a year
earlier to 1.01 trillion yuan in March, central bank data showed
on April 12. Industrial production increased 11.9 percent from a
year earlier, exceeding the median economist forecast in a
Bloomberg survey. Reports on manufacturing, retail sales and
 money supply  in March also topped projections.  Better-than-estimated economic reports fueled the 2010
rally in Chinese stocks even as policy makers were tightening
lending  restrictions  and clamping down on real estate
speculation to avert credit-fueled asset bubbles. Now, the
government is loosening monetary policy.  Wen, who along with President Hu Jintao will hand power to
a younger generation of leaders in a once-a-decade transition
this year, said on April 3 that policy makers should announce
“fine-tuning” measures for the economy, according to a
statement posted on the government’s website. The nation will
post a “steady and robust” expansion, he told reporters in
 Stockholm  on April 24.  Reserve Ratios  China’s central bank will probably cut lenders’  reserve
requirements  this month following a 0.5 percentage-point
reduction to 20.5 percent in February, said Morgan Stanley’s
Lou. The ratio is still five percentage points above its level
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I am very bullish on banks and extremely bullish on
brokerages,” Lou said.  Chinese stocks are undervalued after slower economic growth
spurred “excess pessimism,” according to Mehta at Value
Investment Principals. New stock account  openings  tracked by
China Securities Depository and Clearing Corp. fell to 36,678 in
the week ended April 6, the fewest since Bloomberg began
compiling the data in 2007. Investors opened about 566,000
accounts at the peak of the last  bull market  in November 2010.  The 30-day average trading  volume  of shares in the Shanghai
Composite dropped to the lowest level since October 2008 on Jan.
4 and turnover was about 11 percent below the three-year average
as of April 27, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China’s stock exchanges will lower fees charged for trading
yuan-denominated shares by 25 percent starting June 1, the
nation’s securities regulator said in an April 30 statement on
its website. The regulator also released new rules for initial
public offerings, saying the changes should make the price of
shares “more reasonable” and improve disclosure.  Lower Valuations  The Shanghai Composite’s price-to-earnings  ratio  dropped to
11.4 on Dec. 27, a record-low, and the multiple was 12.7 at the
end of last week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s about 60 percent below the average level of 33 since
1997. The gauge is trading at a 12 percent discount versus the
MSCI All-Country World Index, compared with an average premium
of 55 percent, the data show.  The China index’s bear market, defined as a drop of at
least 20 percent from a recent peak, has lasted more than three
times longer than the 129-day mean retreat during 26 market
cycles since 1990, according to Birinyi Associates, the
Westport, Connecticut-based research and money management firm
founded by  Laszlo Birinyi .  “We are positive on the market this year,” Wang Hanfeng,
a strategist at Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Co., said in an
April 20 interview. Wang said the Shanghai Composite may rally
to 2,900 by December.  Goldman Picks  Goldman Sachs, the most accurate brokerage for mainland-
listed equities in a Bloomberg ranking of stock recommendations,
has the equivalent of buy ratings on shares of  China Citic Bank
Corp. (601998)  and Poly Real Estate Group Co.  China Citic, the Beijing-based banking unit of the nation’s
largest investment company, may rally another 24 percent in the
next 12 months after gaining 12 percent so far this year,
according to Goldman Sachs’s share-price  estimate  on Bloomberg.
The company is valued at 6.4 times reported earnings, down from
9.9 times a year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Poly Real Estate, the second-biggest Chinese developer, may
advance 28 percent, according to Goldman Sachs’s projection on
Bloomberg. The Guangzhou-based company’s price-to-earnings ratio
has declined to 12 from an average of 29 during the past five
years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Earnings at companies in the Shanghai Composite will
probably increase 31 percent during the next 12 months, compared
with 22 percent in the MSCI All-Country World index and 9.4
percent for the  MSCI BRIC Index (MXBRIC) , according to analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Low valuations, policy loosening and falling capital
costs are favorable for equities and we’ll see continuing
valuation expansion,” said Shi, the Shanghai-based strategist
at Guotai Junan. “We are in a bull market.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  