-- Manchester City Overtakes United in Hazard Chase: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-01T09:07:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/manchester-city-overtakes-united-in-hazard-chase-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Hazard Chase  Manchester City  has moved ahead of Manchester United in the
race to sign attacking midfielder Eden Hazard, who is valued at
30 million pounds ($48.6 million) by his French club Lille, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  City’s readiness to offer Hazard regular games is said to
be swaying the 21-year-old toward a move to the Etihad Stadium,
the Telegraph said. The Blues’ greater spending power and
willingness to pay higher wages may probably boost their chances
of beating United to sign Hazard, the newspaper added.  Giovani Makeweight  Tottenham Hotspur may offer Mexican forward Giovani dos Santos to Lille in an attempt to sign Hazard, the  Daily Mail
reported .  Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  remains keen to sign Hazard
even though both Manchester clubs had him watched in Lille’s 2-1
win against Paris Saint-Germain two days ago, the Mirror said.  Wenger’s Targets  Arsene Wenger  has targeted Ajax defender Jan Vertonghen as
Arsenal’s next signing after the Gunners agreed yesterday to
sign German international striker Lukas Podolski for an
undisclosed fee, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Vertonghen, a Belgian international, may be available for
7 million pounds because he only has one year remaining on his
contract, the Mirror said. Wenger is also chasing Rennes
midfielder Yann M’Vila, the newspaper added.  Hughton for Hodgson?  Birmingham manager  Chris Hughton  is West Bromwich Albion’s
top target to replace  Roy Hodgson , who is set to be appointed as
England manager, the  Sun reported . West Brom will move for
Portsmouth’s Michael Appleton if Hodgson takes the England job,
the  Daily Express said .  Redknapp Rush Over  Tottenham may leave Redknapp in contract limbo because the
club is no longer in a rush for him to sign a new deal after he
was snubbed by  England , the  Sun reported .  Redknapp, who had been the bookmakers’ favorite to get the
national job, may go into the final year of his agreement
“surrounded by uncertainty” because Spurs Chairman  Daniel Levy 
is no longer hurrying to offer new terms, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  