-- Anti-Tax Advocate Norquist Endorses Lugar’s Opponent
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-05-02T19:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/anti-tax-advocate-norquist-said-to-endorse-lugar-opponent.html
Anti-tax activist  Grover Norquist 
announced he is backing Indiana State Treasurer Richard Mourdock
over U.S. Senator  Richard Lugar  in the state’s May 8 Republican
primary, a blow for the six-term incumbent days before his
toughest re-election challenge.  Norquist, president of Americans for  Tax Reform , said he
made the decision after Mourdock agreed to sign his group’s
pledge never to vote to raise taxes. Lugar hasn’t agreed to that
pledge, which has been signed by most Republicans in Congress.  “Dick Lugar has refused to and said that he wants to leave
the door open to tax increases in the future,” Norquist said in
a conference call with reporters. He chastised Lugar for working
with lawmakers in both parties in the 1980s and 1990s on two
balanced-budget deals that included tax increases and spending
cuts -- with the program cuts failing to fully materialize.  Norquist’s move is the latest setback for Lugar, the top
Republican on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. He also
has been targeted by attack ads funded by the super-PAC of
FreedomWorks, which supports the Tea Party movement, and the
small-government group Club for Growth. Former Alaska Governor
Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee,
endorsed Mourdock April 27.  Lugar said today that while he has been friends with
Norquist, he won’t sign his no-new-taxes pledge.  ‘I Represent the People’  “I have not signed pledges of any sort,” Lugar said in an
interview after a tour of Batesville Tool & Die Inc. in
Batesville,  Indiana . “I represent the people of this state.”  Lugar, 80, pointed to his endorsements by groups including
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce as evidence of his record as an
advocate for limited government.  “I voted very fiscally conservative for 35 years,” he
said.  So far, little independent polling has been conducted in
the contest. A March 26-28 poll of 503 likely Republican voters
by Howey Politics Indiana and DePauw University showed Lugar
ahead of Mourdock, 42 percent to 35 percent. The poll’s error
margin was plus-or-minus 4.4 percentage points.  The race has tightened since then, and Lugar risks losing
to Mourdock in the primary, said  Nathan Gonzales , political
editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report.  ‘Trending Against Him’  “Lugar is in a significant amount of danger,” Gonzales
said. “I think the race is trending against him. The question
is: Is there enough time for Mourdock to pull this off?”  Andy Fisher, a spokesman for Lugar, said yesterday that
Indiana voters don’t favor lawmakers who make ironclad promises
to special interests.  Fisher also said Lugar’s campaign is making a “massive
get-out-the-vote” effort, and that the campaign is “in pretty
good shape.”  “We feel that the contacts that we’re making through our
phone bank in the final days are going to be very successful,”
he said.  Mourdock, 60, said today he’s also confident his voter
mobilization efforts will give him the edge.  “We have a tremendous ground game,” he said during the
conference call with Norquist. “Our ground game is coming
together even better than I imagined.”  First elected in 1976, Lugar and  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  are
the U.S. Senate’s two longest-serving Republicans. Hatch, 78,
also has faced opposition from FreedomWorks, and last month he
fell 32 votes short of winning his party’s nomination at a state
party convention. Hatch faces a June 26 primary against former
state Senator Dan Liljenquist.  Opposition to Lugar  Lugar is opposed by conservative groups for supporting the
2008 bank bailout, a pathway to citizenship for children of some
illegal immigrants, and a strategic arms reduction treaty with
Russia he helped steer through the Senate in 2010.  He also has been hampered by a challenge to his state
residency amid criticism that he hasn’t spent enough time in
Indiana. A Democrat-controlled county elections board ruled in
March that Lugar was ineligible to vote in his home precinct
because he and his wife registered using the Indianapolis
address of a home he sold in 1977. A settlement was reached
allowing Lugar to change his voter registration address to a
family farm in Indiana.  Mourdock is a former coal-company geologist who in 2010 won
re-election as state treasurer. He claims the support of most of
the state’s 92 Republican county chairmen.  Attack Ads  Lugar has been airing TV ads that tout his credentials and
experience and attack Mourdock. He has the support of two
independent super-PACs designed to aid his candidacy, the
Indiana Values super-PAC -- led by a former Lugar chief of staff
-- and Hoosiers for Economic Growth and Jobs.  Still, he lost the help of another ally, the non-profit
independent expenditure group American Action Network, which has
supported Lugar and other vulnerable Republican incumbents. The
group, which was running ads attacking Mourdock, decided several
days ago to pull out of the race, said Dan Conston, a spokesman
for the group.  “We’re going to let this race play out,” Conston said.  Gonzales said Lugar made a series of missteps in his
primary race, including waiting too long to become actively
engaged. While Lugar raised more money than Mourdock personally
-- $5.9 million compared with $2.3 million for his rival as of
March 31 -- he hasn’t adjusted to a time when outside groups can
negate the advantage, Gonzales said.  “He hasn’t been aware enough of the new political reality
that long-time experience is not valued the way it once was,”
Gonzales said.  The winner of the May 8 primary will face Democratic
Representative Joe Donnelly in the general election.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  