-- Manufacturing in U.S. Probably Expanded at Slower Pace
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-01T11:02:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/manufacturing-in-u-s-probably-expanded-at-slower-pace-in-april.html
Manufacturing in the U.S. probably
expanded at a slower pace in April than a month earlier,
indicating the industry that spurred the recovery almost three
years ago is cooling, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  eased
to 53 last month from 53.4 in March, according to the median
estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. Construction spending rose in
March for the first time in three months, other data may show.  Less demand for business equipment, a smaller buildup in
inventories and recession in  Europe  may limit orders and
production at U.S. factories. A further strengthening of the
economic expansion that began in June 2009 may require faster
growth in manufacturing along with sustained gains in the
services industry.  “Overall, manufacturing is slowing down a little bit, but
it did have a pretty good first quarter, partly because of the
car industry,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at
UniCredit Group in  New York . “The  U.S. economy  really needs to
see a stronger goods-producing sector this year.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based ISM’s manufacturing report is due
at 10 a.m. New York time. Estimates ranged from 52 to 54.0. The
gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier.  At 10 a.m., the Commerce Department will release data on
 construction spending . Economists project a 0.5 percent gain
after a 1.1 percent drop in February, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Forecasts ranged from a decrease of 0.8 percent
to an increase of 1 percent.  U.K. Manufacturing  Elsewhere, a  U.K. manufacturing  index fell more than
forecast in April as export orders declined the most since May
2009. A gauge of factory output, based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply ,
dropped to 50.5, the lowest this year, from a revised 51.9 in
March, Markit said on its website today. The median forecast in
a Bloomberg survey called for a decline to 51.5 from an initial
March estimate of 52.1.  China ’s manufacturing expanded for a fifth month in April,
reducing pressure on policy makers to open the taps on credit in
the world’s second-largest economy. The  Purchasing Managers ’
Index rose to 53.3 from 53.1 in March, China’s statistics bureau
and logistics federation said in a statement today. That’s the
highest reading in a year.  Regional Figures  Recent regional reports indicate manufacturing, which
accounts for about 12 percent of the total economy, is expanding
less vigorously than last year. New York-area factories  grew  at
the slowest pace in five months in April, and manufacturing in
the Philadelphia region  expanded  at a slower pace last month,
according to figures from the  Federal Reserve .  Business spending on equipment and software in the first
quarter rose at a 1.7 percent pace, the weakest in almost three
years, a Commerce Department report showed last week. Other data
last week showed orders for non-defense  capital goods  excluding
aircraft -- a proxy for business investment in items such as
computers and communications gear -- decreased 0.8 percent in
March.  Overseas demand for U.S. made-goods also risks fading as
global growth slows.  Spain ’s economy contracted in the first
quarter, putting the euro region’s fourth-largest economy into
its second recession since 2009. The U.K. shrank 0.2 percent in
the first quarter after contracting 0.3 percent in the prior
three months as Britain slid into its first double-dip recession
since the 1970s.  Global Economy ‘Uneven’  “The global economy is uneven,” John Faraci, chairman and
chief executive officer of  International Paper Co. (IP) , said during
an April 27 earnings call. “We got a recession going on in
Western Europe. The growth has slowed in China and  India . And
 North America  is a recovering but far from fully recovered
economic environment.”  At the same time, stronger auto production bolstered the
U.S. economy from January through March, which may keep support
manufacturing. Motor vehicle output added 1.12 percentage points
to growth, the most since the third quarter of 2009. Cars last
quarter  sold  at the fastest pace in four years, according to
industry data.  Manufacturers mentioned gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey, published April 11. The firms “expressed optimism about
near-term growth prospects, but they are somewhat concerned
about rising petroleum prices,” the Fed said in the report.  3M Co., the maker of fuel system tune-up kits and  Post-it
Notes , posted first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
because of rising U.S. auto and industrial demand. The  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based company’s industrial and transportation unit
posted sales of $2.66 billion, an 8.6 percent increase.  Manufacturing shares are still outperforming the market.
The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Industrial Machinery  Index (S15MACH) ,
which includes Caterpillar Inc. and Deere & Co., advanced 14
percent since the end of 2011 through yesterday, compared with
an 11 percent increase in the broader  S&P 500 . 