-- ANZ Bank First-Half Net Rises as Offshore Lending Jumps
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-05-02T06:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/anz-bank-first-half-profit-rises-10-as-offshore-earnings-surge.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ) , Australia’s third-largest bank by market value, said
first-half profit climbed 10 percent on higher overseas income.  Net income in the six months ended March 31 rose to A$2.92
billion ($3.02 billion) from A$2.66 billion a year earlier, the
bank said  today , matching analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Underlying profit from the  Asia  Pacific, Europe and
America unit increased 21 percent from the previous six months.  The stock fell after lending profitability dropped more
than analysts expected and Australian earnings slid from the
previous six months. Chief Executive Officer  Michael Smith  is
cutting jobs, costs and turning to Asia’s faster-growing
economies to mitigate rising competition and a struggling
housing market at  home , which accounts for more than 70 percent
of its lending.  “There’s strong momentum from overseas, so they’re heading
in the right direction,” said TS Lim, an analyst at Bell Potter
Securities Ltd. in Sydney with a “buy” rating on ANZ Bank
stock. “It’s going to be tough with margins over here, but
there’s still room for efficiency gains.”  Underlying profit in  Australia  fell 7 percent from the
prior six months, a performance that Smith called “subdued.”  ANZ Bank  stock  dropped 0.8 percent to A$23.80 at the 4:10
p.m. close in Sydney, while the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index
advanced 0.1 percent.  ‘Work Out’ Phase  The stock decline trimmed the year’s gain to 16 percent,
still ranking it as the best performer among a quartet of
Australian banks that includes  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)   “We are managing in what could be described as a ‘work
out’ phase in the global economy with the situation most acute
in Europe,” Smith said. “Getting ahead of the game in this
environment creates challenge.”  Net loans and advances in the Asia-Pacific region,  Europe 
and America surged 32 percent from the same period a year
earlier, more than four times the pace of growth in Australia,
ANZ Bank said. Deposits at those offshore locations jumped 34
percent, more than double the advance at home.  At the bank’s institutional division, growth in profit,
lending, and deposits also outpaced advances in Australia.  The result showed the value of reducing the bank’s reliance
on Australia, which was a “drag” on earnings, Smith told
reporters today. The profitability of lending in the bank’s
domestic market is declining and there’s a “persistently lower
demand for credit,” he said.  Margin Narrows  The bank’s group net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of lending, fell 9 basis points from a year
earlier, more than the 6-point decline expected by analysts.
Profitability was lowest in Australia, where the margin dropped
15 basis points.  “The issue in Australia was continued margin pressure
driven by higher deposit pricing and higher long-term wholesale
funding costs,” Smith told investors on a call. “It’s
incredibly competitive.”  Australia’s central bank said yesterday that Europe’s debt
crisis might deliver “adverse shocks” for some time as it cut
benchmark borrowing costs by a larger-than-expected margin to
spur economic growth.  Even after that 50 basis-point rate cut by the central
bank, Australia has the highest borrowing costs, at 3.75
percent, among major developed nations. That’s weighing on the
housing market and  consumer confidence .  Sales of new homes in Australia fell in March to a record
low, according to the Canberra-based Housing Industry
Association.  House prices  declined in the three months through
March in the longest losing streak in at least a decade, the
 Australian Bureau of Statistics  said yesterday.  Fewer Targets  Even as Smith focuses on expanding in Asia, he said there
are fewer opportunities to buy assets than he expected.  “We thought a number of European banks would sell Asian
assets to delever, but that pressure has eased off,” he told
reporters. “I’m probably a bit mean on price and the
opportunities are not as plentiful as we hoped.”  National Australia Bank, the country’s fourth-largest bank,
on April 30 reported a 16 percent decline in net income in the
six months ended March 31 as it booked charges to shrink its
U.K. business. Cash earnings, which excluded those costs,
increased 5.7 percent to A$2.82 billion in the period, the
Melbourne-based bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  