-- Marriott Seeks Dubai Convention Boost With Tallest Hotel
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-05-01T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/marriott-seeks-dubai-convention-boost-with-tallest-hotel.html
JW Marriott Marquis, the world’s
tallest hotel set to open in Dubai this year, will rely on a
growing convention and exhibition industry to fill twin towers
that rival the Empire State Building’s height, according to its
manager.  “Convention cities like  Las Vegas  and  Orlando  have a big
network of hotels to draw on,” Rupprecht Queitsch said in an
interview in Dubai. “It’s a business Dubai has little of.”  The five-star hotel operated by  Marriott International Inc. (MAR) 
consists of two identical oval towers rising 1,164 feet, just 85
feet shorter than the iconic  New York  skyscraper. Marriott,
which plans to open the first tower in October, is counting on
5,150 square-meters (55,000 square-feet) of banquet space to
help attract convention organizers, Queitsch said on April 30.  The 82-story, 1,608-room hotel represents another record-
breaking structure for a city that already boasts the tallest
building and the largest shopping mall. The highest hotel today,
the 72-story  Rose Rayhaan , shares Dubai’s Sheikh Zayed Road with
the Marriott project.  The second tower will be completed about 18 months after
the first is opened, Queitsch said. Marriott, based in Bethesda,
 Maryland , will manage the hotel for owner Emirates Airline, the
largest carrier by international traffic.  Queitsch, a 58-year-old German, said he has booked a
health-care convention for January that will fill a total of 700
rooms for five nights in the hotel, the first Marquis-branded
property outside of  North America . Hotels in Berlin,  Madrid  and
Lisbon sought to host the event, he said.  “This event will almost take up the whole hotel,” he
said.  High Occupancy  Dubai, a city-state of around 2 million people, drew 9.3
million tourists last year with landmarks such as the sail-
shaped Burj al Arab hotel and the Burj Khalifa skyscraper.
Hotels in the city have had average occupancy of 87 percent and
revenue per available room is among the highest in the world,
even as supply continues to come into the market, according to
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)   Tourism and retail were bright spots last year in Dubai,
which suffered more than 65 percent slump in property values
following the global credit crisis and triggered debt crisis at
some of the emirate’s largest government related entities.  Desert safaris and Dhow cruises are among the activities
being booked by the convention operators, Queitsch said. Such
events “bring in a lot of money to the city as visitors eat,
shop and go to the beach.”  Five-Star  Dubai is expected to add 12,000 hotel rooms from 2012 to
2014, Stewart Coggans, executive vice president for  Middle East 
and  Africa  at Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels, said earlier this week.
About 79 percent of is expected to be five-star.  “Dubai is quite healthy as around 40 percent of its
business comes from the corporate arena, which includes
conferencing, while 60 percent comes from leisure business,”
Coggans said in a phone interview. “Is it maximizing its
conferencing business? Maybe not.”  The 333-meter Rose Rayhaan opened in January 2010, just
days after the record-setting Burj Khalifa was unveiled amid
fireworks, light and water displays. The alcohol-free hotel,
operated by Rotana, caters mainly to clients who adhere to
Islam’s prohibition on consuming alcohol.  The closeness of the two hotels shouldn’t affect their
business because they have different clientele, Queitsch said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen at 
 Rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 