-- Harvard’s Sandel Fingers Death Bonds, Faults Moneyball
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/harvard-s-sandel-fingers-death-bonds-faults-moneyball.html
In September 2009, Steven Strongin of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. went before a U.S. congressional
subcommittee to discuss a delicate subject:  death bonds .  The hearing captured a dilemma coursing through Michael Sandel’s cogent new book, “What Money Can’t Buy.”  The official topic that day was “ Recent Innovations in
Securitization .” The real issue was life-insurance policies
bundled into bonds for investors, who receive income as the
original policyholders die.  Ghoulish to some, efficient to others, these securities
highlight what Sandel calls the “moral limits of markets.”
Even at a time when market mechanisms have spread high and low
in the U.S. -- home of the college football skybox and land of
the for-profit prison -- death bonds engender moral disquietude,
as the hearing showed.  “The idea of institutional investors profiting from a
person’s death seems, to say the least, unsettling and
immoral,” said the panel’s chairman, Representative Paul
Kanjorski, a Pennsylvania Democrat.  Strongin, testifying as a  Goldman Sachs (GS)  managing director,
stated three times that the bank had never done this kind of
securitization. Why, I wonder, did he repeat that? Was he
concerned that Goldman might be seen as a sinister bookie taking
bets on the lives of strangers?  Renting Foreheads  Death bonds illustrate how far market values have seeped
into society in recent decades, says Sandel, the Harvard
University government professor whose book “Justice” spawned
television series in the U.S. and U.K.  “We live at a time when almost everything can be bought
and sold,” Sandel writes. He flicks through examples.  Want to shoot an endangered black rhino? You can do so
legally for $150,000 in  South Africa . Looking for a clever way
to advertise your online casino? Pay a single mother $10,000 to
have your website  tattooed across her forehead .  Sandel isn’t questioning the success of the market as a
mechanism for producing and distributing goods and spreading
prosperity. He is, rather, seeking to provoke a debate about the
proper place of markets in society: “We need to ask whether
there are some things money should not buy.”  This is especially true when it comes to placing a value on
things that raise moral or political questions, such as civic
duties. The debate is needed, he says, partly because market
reasoning, being nonjudgmental, “empties public life of moral
argument.” When price is the only issue, we stop discriminating
between what is admirable and what is base.  ‘Moneyball’ Blues  As in “Justice” and his  online course  in political
philosophy, Sandel digs below the surface of things we take for
granted. Consider the transformation of baseball into
“moneyball,” as  Michael Lewis  called it.  It’s true that general manager Billy Beane used market
thinking to turn the  Oakland Athletics  into a winning team.
Drawing on statistical analysis, he identified underpriced
players and inefficient practices.  Once Beane determined that a hitter’s batting average
mattered less to winning than his on-base percentage, the A’s
began hiring players who drew walks. Discovering that base
stealing reduced the chance of scoring, he discouraged the
practice.  Before long, teams with deeper pockets adopted the same
strategies. Baseball became more economically efficient. It also
grew less exciting, Sandel says.  “A game littered with long at bats and lots of walks is
usually a tedious affair,” he writes, challenging the sway of
what he terms “the moneyball faith.”  Nuclear Waste  Market incentives can prove counterproductive. In one Swiss
mountain village, Sandel says, economists asked residents if
they would vote to accept a nuclear-waste dump in their
community. A narrow majority of 51 percent said yes.  What if they were compensated with annual cash payments? In
that case, only 25 percent would vote in favor. Why? Though the
residents were willing to bear the risk for the good of the
nation, the monetary offer felt like a bribe.  When it comes to blood collection, Sandel writes, a system
that relies entirely on voluntary donors has been found to work
better than one in which some supplies are purchased, typically
from the poor. The latter results in “chronic shortages, wasted
blood, higher costs and a greater risk of contaminated blood,”
he says.  Sandel doesn’t offer definitive answers. He instead
supplies “a philosophical framework” for weighing promised
economic benefits against potential societal costs.  Life insurance, for instance, was long restricted to those
who had an “insurable interest” in the person insured.
Gambling on the lives of strangers was banned.  That taboo has now been breached, as death bonds show.
Though trading on mortality has been justified in the name of
free markets, there’s a moral price to pay, says Sandel.  “When markets in death become familiar and routine, the
moral opprobrium is not easy to retain.”  Or even to recall.  “What Money Can’t Buy: The Moral Limits of Markets” is
published by  Farrar, Straus and Giroux  in the U.S. and by Allen
 Lane  in the U.K. (244 pages, $27, 20 pounds). To buy this book
in  North America , click here.  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on the arts and
 Ryan Sutton  on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 