-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Remain Lower Before Spanish Auctions
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-05-02T05:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/aussie-kiwi-halt-decline-on-prospects-stocks-will-gain.html
The Australian and  New Zealand  dollars
rose against the yen as Asian stocks extended a global rally,
boosting the allure of higher-yielding assets.  Both currencies snapped a two-day decline against the
greenback after a private report showed improvement in  China ’s
manufacturing industry last month, easing concern the world’s
second-biggest economy will slow further. Demand for the South
Pacific nations’ currencies was also bolstered before U.S. data
this week forecast to show a pickup in hiring.  “I’d recommend buying the Aussie on dips,” said Hideki Shibata, a senior strategist for rates and foreign exchange at
Tokai Tokyo Research Center Co. “China is more likely to avoid
a hard landing” and “the U.S. is basically in a recovery
trend,” he said.  Australia’s dollar, known as the Aussie, climbed 0.4
percent to 83.09 yen as of 3:55 p.m. in Sydney from the close in
 New York  yesterday, snapping a four-day drop. It added 0.1
percent to $1.0342. New Zealand’s currency advanced 0.3 percent
to 65.45 yen and lost 0.1 percent to 81.46 U.S. cents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares advanced 0.6 percent.
The  Dow Jones Industrial Average (INDU)  climbed 0.5 percent in New York
yesterday to the highest close since December 2007.  The 49.3 final reading of a  Chinese purchasing managers’
index  released today from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
today compares with a preliminary 49.1 reported April 23 and a
final 48.3 in March.  A separate index released yesterday by China’s statistics
bureau and logistics federation was at 53.3, indicating the
fastest growth in a year. China is  Australia ’s biggest trading
partner and New Zealand’s second-largest export market.  U.S. Economy  Payrolls in the U.S. probably increased by 161,000 workers
in April after a 120,000 gain the previous month, according to
the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before the Labor Department data due May 4. Figures from ADP
Employer Services today may show that U.S. employment grew by
170,000 in April, compared with a 209,000 increase in March.  Demand for higher-yielding currencies was limited before
 Spain  auctions debt tomorrow maturing in 2015 and 2017. Yields
on the nation’s 10-year bonds climbed above 6 percent last
month, stoking speculation the euro area’s fourth-largest
economy would follow Greece, Ireland and Portugal in seeking a
bailout. Spain’s economy entered its second recession since
2009, government data showed this week.  “Concern about  Europe ’s debt crisis is simmering as
Spain’s fiscal situation has yet to be resolved,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in
 Tokyo , a unit of  Japan ’s largest currency-margin company.
“People are reluctant to take risk aggressively,” weighing on
the Australian and New Zealand currencies, he said.  Narrowing Spread  Prices for New Zealand’s commodity exports fell 4.5 percent
in April from the prior month, the biggest decline since
February 2009, an  index  compiled by ANZ National Bank Ltd.
showed today.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia yesterday lowered its  key
rate  to 3.75 percent from 4.25 percent. Only two of the 29
economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted the half-point
reduction, with the other 27 forecasting a quarter-point cut.  Australia’s two-year government notes yielded 2.55
percentage points more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries
yesterday, the  least  since June 2009. Traders see a 33 percent
chance that the central bank will cut the rate to 3 percent by
October, according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on
overnight-index swap rates.  Testing Parity  “Markets continue to lean towards further easing, quite
rightly in our view,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist
in Sydney at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , wrote in a research note
today. The Australian dollar “has generally been resilient in
the face of a lower yield pickup but it is obviously an
underlying negative for the currency.”  The currency may test $1 by June, he wrote.  Yields on Australia’s 10-year  notes rose  10 basis points to
3.64 percent. New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment
made to receive floating rates, increased 3 1/2 basis points to
2.71 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  