-- Aussie, N.Z. Dollars Drop as Gauge Highlights Divergence
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-01T21:05:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/aussie-n-z-dollars-drop-as-gauge-highlights-divergence.html
The Australian and New Zealand dollars
stayed lower versus their U.S. counterpart after a factory gauge
unexpectedly rose in April, highlighting a divergence between
U.S. economic performance and that of the South Pacific nations.  The Aussie dropped by the most in almost two months after
the central bank cut  interest rates  more than forecast
yesterday, damping appetite for the currency. The  Reserve Bank 
of  Australia  lowered its  key rate  to 3.75 percent, from 4.25
percent, compared with a projection in a Bloomberg News survey
for a reduction to 4 percent.  “The yield premium the Aussie offers has been undercut,”
said  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at
Westpac Banking Corp. in New York. “Whenever a central bank
moves by more than 25 basis points, clearly the ground is
shifting very quickly beneath it in ways that they didn’t
expect.”  The Australian dollar slid 0.9 percent to $1.0334 yesterday
in New York, falling against all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts. It lost as much as 1.2 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since March 20. The Aussie fell 0.6 percent to
82.73 yen and reached 82.11 yen, the lowest level since Feb. 7.  New Zealand ’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, dropped 0.4
percent to 81.53 U.S. cents. It was the second-biggest loser
among major currencies after the Aussie. The kiwi was little
changed at 65.28 yen after falling earlier to 64.77 yen, the
weakest since Feb. 16.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s U.S.  factory index 
rose to 54.8 in April from 53.4 a month earlier, the Tempe,
Arizona-based group’s report showed yesterday. Economists in a
Bloomberg survey forecast a decline to 53. Readings greater than
50 signal growth.  Rate Reduction  The RBA’s cut of 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point,
to its overnight cash rate target was the deepest in three
years. Two of 29 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News predicted
the move, while the other 27 forecast a 25 basis-point reduction
to 4 percent.  The central bank eased monetary policy a week before the
government delivers a budget designed to end four years of
deficits by cutting  government spending  by the equivalent of
about 2.5 percent of gross domestic product. The RBA wants to
buttress a housing market in which prices have fallen for five
straight quarters, support jobs and boost confidence that has
weakened among consumers who are saving more.  Wages in New Zealand rose 0.5 percent in the first three
months of the year from the fourth quarter, when they increased
0.7 percent, Statistics New Zealand’s reported yesterday. The
data added to signs of modest economic growth this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  