-- Australia Investment Spending Rises on Darwin LNG, Deloitte Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/australia-investment-spending-rises-on-darwin-lng-deloitte-says.html
Australia ’s business investment rose
in the first quarter, led by liquefied natural gas projects in
 Western Australia  and Darwin as concerns about cost inflation
increase, a Deloitte Access Economics report showed.  Projects valued at A$450.2 billion ($465 billion) were
committed or in progress as of March 31, up A$34.8 billion from
the previous three months, the Canberra-based  research company 
said in a report released today.  “Resource-rich Western Australia and Queensland are well
ahead of the other states so far as Australia’s pipeline of
major investment projects is concerned,” the report showed.
Still, the approval of  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and Total SA’s $34 billion
LNG project “will soon see the Northern Territory experiencing
a mining investment boom of its own,” Deloitte Access said.  Mining accounts for 45 percent of all investment projects
under construction or committed, according to Deloitte Access,
which was founded by two former Treasury economists.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil
producer, started producing liquefied natural gas at its A$14.9
billion Pluto project after a delay of more than a year.
Woodside last year increased Pluto’s estimated cost for the
third time in 19 months and delayed the target for exports by
six additional months to March 2012.  “The smooth delivery of Australia’s massive pipeline of
investment projects is not guaranteed,” the report showed.
“Cost inflation is a key issue for the mining sector, both
globally and in Australia. Over the past year engineering
construction price growth in Australia was still relatively
subdued, but it is now trending up. Australia’s experience over
the past decade is that cost growth here over time can be
substantial.”  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia yesterday lowered the
nation’s benchmark interest rate a half percentage point to 3.75
percent, double the size of the cut most economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News had projected. The RBA cited output growth that
was “somewhat below trend over the past year” and slower
inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  