-- Australia Unexpectedly Cuts Key Rate by Half Point
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-05-01T06:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/australia-unexpectedly-cuts-key-rate-by-half-point.html
The  Reserve Bank  of Australia cut its
benchmark  interest rate  by half a percentage point as inflation
pressures abate, delivering a bigger-than-forecast reduction
that sent the local dollar and bond yields tumbling.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board slashed the overnight
cash rate target to a two-year low of 3.75 percent from 4.25
percent, the deepest reduction in three years, according to a
central bank statement in Sydney today. Two of 29  economists 
surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted the move, while the other
27 forecast a quarter-point reduction.  The half-point cut was “judged to be necessary in order to
deliver the appropriate level of borrowing rates,” Stevens said
in the statement. In the next year or two, “inflation will
probably be lower than earlier expected” and within the RBA’s
target range of 2 percent to 3 percent, he said.  With his first rate cut of the year, Stevens is easing
monetary policy a week before the government delivers a budget
that aims to end four years of deficits by cutting  government
spending  by the equivalent of about 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product. The RBA wants to buttress a housing market in
which prices have fallen for five straight quarters, support
jobs and boost confidence that has weakened among consumers who
are saving more.  After the decision, the local dollar weakened to as low as
$1.0324 from $1.0413 before the announcement. Ten-year note
yields declined as much as 14 basis points to 3.536 percent. The
nation’s S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks advanced 1 percent at 3:11
p.m. Sydney time.  ‘Big Bazooka’  “The Reserve Bank has gone with the big bazooka,” said
 Joshua Williamson , a senior economist in Sydney at  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , one of the two who predicted the steeper reduction. “The
Reserve Bank is saying we’ve done 50 basis points, this should
actually help improve financial conditions and I think
confidence as well. But I think they’re done and dusted for this
cycle now.”  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
the nation’s two largest mortgage lenders, are reviewing their
interest rates, spokesmen for the banks said.  National Australia
Bank Ltd. (NAB)  spokesman  Brian Walsh  declined to say whether the bank
will cut rates.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
announces its rate moves on the second Friday of each month.  Bank’s Rates  Australia’s four biggest banks, which account for more than
80 percent of the nation’s mortgage market, say the RBA’s cash
rate has become less relevant to funding costs that they say are
rising. The banks raised variable home-loan rates this year to
guard profit margins. This has prompted speculation they won’t
pass on reductions in the cash rate in full, pressuring policy
makers to ease more than in the past.  Policy makers “have reasserted that they do control
monetary policy,” said Warren Bird, co-head of global fixed
interest and credit at Colonial First State.  Calls for Stevens to reduce rates have intensified in
recent weeks, ranging from unions to business executives to the
leader of the government.  “In the current economic environment, should the RBA
consider it appropriate to change the cash rate, this could
deliver widespread benefits for households and business --
noting that a number of sectors of the economy most under strain
are arguably more sensitive to interest rates,” Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said last month.  Swan’s Praise  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan praised today’s RBA move
and said it reflects the government’s “disciplined” fiscal
policy and little inflation.  Australia ’s so-called trimmed mean gauge of core consumer
prices advanced 0.3 percent last quarter, the slowest pace since
1998. The overall  consumer price index  rose 0.1 percent from the
previous three months, compared with the 0.6 percent increase
forecast by economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  A private manufacturing gauge released today fell to the
lowest in seven months in April, led by textiles and furniture
as the sustained strength of the currency hurt exports.  The Australian dollar has risen in six of the past seven
quarters, and bought $1.0425 earlier today in Sydney. Tourism,
manufacturing and retail industries have weakened under the
currency’s 42 percent rise in the past three years.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  South Korea ’s
inflation moderated to a 21-month low in April, with consumer
prices increasing 2.5 percent from a year earlier, a report
showed today. Exports fell for a second month.  China’s Growth  Another report today showed  China ’s manufacturing expanded
for a fifth month in April. The Purchasing Managers’ Index rose
to 53.3 from 53.1 in March, China’s statistics bureau and
logistics federation said. That’s the highest reading in a year
and compares with the 53.6 median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of 27 economists.  In  Europe , Ireland will announce April  consumer confidence 
data today, and housing prices in the U.K. in April probably
fell from a month earlier, according to a survey by Bloomberg
News.  In the U.S., a private report may show manufacturing
expanded at a slower pace in April than a month earlier,
indicating the industry that spurred the recovery almost three
years ago is cooling.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index eased
to 53 last month from 53.4 in March, according to the median
estimate of 77 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth. Construction spending rose in
March for the first time in three months, other data may show.  Australia’s economy is struggling to accelerate,
unexpectedly posting back-to-back trade deficits as coal and
metal exports slumped, a government report last month showed.
Traders are betting there’s a 60 percent chance Stevens will
lower rates by a quarter point to 3.5 percent at the next
meeting in June, according to swaps data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  