-- Australian House Prices Fall for Fifth Straight Quarter
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-05-01T06:16:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/australian-house-prices-fall-for-fifth-straight-quarter-1-.html
Australian  house prices  declined in
the three months through March in the longest losing streak in
at least a decade as the central bank maintained the highest
borrowing costs among major developed nations.  An index measuring prices for established houses in eight
major cities dropped 1.1 percent last quarter from the previous
three months, when it fell a revised 0.7 percent, the  Australian
Bureau of Statistics  said in Sydney today. House and apartment
prices slumped 4.5 percent in the eight cities in April from a
year earlier, according to real estate researchers RP Data and
Rismark International.  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens 
unexpectedly cut the benchmark  interest rate  by half a
percentage point to 3.75 percent today, the deepest reduction in
three years. Only two of 29 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News predicted the move, while the other 27 forecast a quarter-
point reduction. Stevens reduced borrowing costs in November and
December, to 4.25 percent, to buttress the housing market,
support jobs and boost confidence among consumers who are saving
more.  “There remains little evidence that rate cuts by the RBA
late in 2011 have helped to prop up the housing market,”
Celeste Tay, a Singapore-based economist at 4cast Ltd., said in
an e-mailed message. “We expect the fall in  house prices  will
find some sort of base in the second half of this year on the
lagged effect of monetary stimulus as well as better house price
affordability.”  Bank Rates  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  and  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) ,
the nation’s two largest mortgage lenders, are reviewing their
interest rates, spokesmen for the lenders said.  Australia’s four biggest banks have this year increased
their standard variable home-loan rates, even as the central
bank remained on hold, citing higher funding costs.  “Banks must mirror the cut in official rates to help new
home buyers as well as providing relief for existing
homeowners,” Wilhelm Harnisch, chief executive officer of
industry group Master Builders Association, said in an e-mailed
statement. “There would be no justification for the banks to
delay or withhold the reduction in the official cash rate.”  Homes for Sale  Australian homes for sale jumped “dramatically” by 5.4
percent in March to a four-month high, Sydney-based SQM Research
said last month. Sales of new homes dropped 9.4 percent in March
to a record low, according to the Housing Industry Association.  The new home sale figures point to “ongoing deterioration
in already very weak new home building conditions,”  Harley
Dale , chief economist at the HIA, said yesterday. “That
situation is in turn having a major negative impact on
manufacturing and services sectors.”  Australian manufacturing fell to the lowest level in seven
months in April, as the sustained strength of the local currency
hurt exports, a private survey today showed. A gauge of
employment fell 5.2 points to 46.1 in April, while new orders
slid 6.2 points to 42, the report showed.  Arrears of 30 days or more on loans that back Australian
mortgage bonds jumped 21 basis points, or 0.21 percentage point,
to 1.84 percent in January, the highest level in three years,
 Standard & Poor’s  said in a report today. The proportion of sub-
prime borrowers who were late with payments rose 86 basis points
to 11.95 percent, the report showed.  Home Prices Fall  Home prices  fell 2.2 percent in  Melbourne  and 1.8 percent
in Sydney in the first quarter, the statistics bureau report
showed. Hobart recorded the biggest decline, at 2.7 percent, it
showed. Prices jumped 4.4 percent in Darwin and gained 1.1
percent in Perth, it showed.  Prices of detached houses across Australia’s capital cities
dropped 4.7 percent in April from a year earlier, while
apartment prices fared better, falling 3.1 percent, according to
the RP Data-Rismark report.  A jump in home prices was among reasons Stevens increased
the benchmark rate by 175 basis points from October 2009 to
November 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  