-- Avon Profit Trails Analysts’ Estimates As Costs Increase
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-05-01T20:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/avon-profit-trails-estimates-as-sales-drop-in-asia.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the door-to-door
cosmetics seller that’s the target of a $10 billion takeover bid
from Coty Inc., fell the most in six months after reporting
quarterly profit that trailed analysts’ estimates, hurt by
higher labor and materials costs.  Avon  dropped  8 percent to $19.87 at the close in New York,
the largest decline since Oct. 27. The New York-based company’s
shares have gained 14 percent this year.  Net income in the first-quarter fell 82 percent to $26.5
million, or 6 cents a share, from $143.6 million, or 33 cents, a
year earlier, Avon said today in a statement. Profit excluding
some items totaled 10 cents a share. Analysts projected 28
cents, the average of 14  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Avon, which named Johnson & Johnson’s Sherilyn McCoy as
chief executive officer last month, is working to reverse three
years of  profit  declines and conclude an investigation related
to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Avon on April 2 rejected a
$23.25-a-share cash offer from Coty, the maker of perfumes by
Heidi Klum and  Beyonce Knowles , saying the bid doesn’t reflect
the value of the company.  “You’ve got input costs and spending costs that are too
high and that’s where the misses come from,” Victoria Collin,
an analyst at Atlantic Equities in  London , said today in a
telephone interview. Collin rates the shares neutral, the
equivalent of a hold.  Increased Competition  Costs as a percentage of revenue jumped 3.5 percentage
points from a year earlier. Gross margin, or the percentage of
profit left after subtracting the cost of goods sold, narrowed
by 3.1 percentage points.  McCoy on a conference call today said she’d scrutinize
every piece of the business and develop five or six priorities
to address.  Avon said sales in  Brazil , one of its largest markets, were
hurt by increased competition. Sales declined 17 percent in its
Silpada jewelry unit.  In  North America , active representatives declined 10
percent, which Collin said was “most worrisome.”  A new sales model has caused some disruption in the unit,
Avon executives said on the call, adding that the changes have
also helped boost results among some top-tier representatives.  Total revenue in the first quarter declined 2.3 percent to
$2.58 billion. Analysts projected $2.54 billion, the average of
12  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Difficult Turnaround  Coty said April 16 it is confident in financing a purchase
of Avon, including more than $5 billion from BDT Capital
Partners and Coty’s owner Joh A. Benckiser SE. The company gave
Avon until April 30 to respond to its offer, which some
investors have said is too low.  Today’s results could give Coty some pause because they
point to a long and difficult turnaround, said  Ali Dibadj , an
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  “If they want to actually make a case that they can run
this business better, it may help them as well,” Dibadj said
today in a telephone interview. “They may actually be able to
inject a bunch of experience and brands and channels that this
business could benefit from,” said Dibadj, who rates the shares
market perform, the equivalent of a hold.  Buying Avon would more than triple Coty’s sales and help
the company expand into  emerging markets  such as Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  