-- Tax Treaty Blocked, EU Banks, Islamic Finance: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-05-01T12:27:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/tax-treaty-blocked-eu-bank-capital-islamic-finance-compliance.html
Senator  Rand Paul  is blocking an
amendment to a U.S.-Swiss tax treaty, slowing Switzerland’s
handover of data on thousands of Americans with bank accounts
hidden from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.  The protocol, negotiated in September 2009, would amend a
1996 treaty and make it more difficult for Switzerland to refuse
requests from the IRS for tax information about U.S. customers
of Swiss banks. The U.S. is cracking down on secret accounts
held by its citizens at  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) , Wegelin & Co.
and other financial institutions.  Paul, a Kentucky Republican, said the protocol is too
“sweeping” and would threaten protections under the Fourth
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, which guards against
unreasonable search and seizure. Paul said he is exercising his
privilege to delay a Senate vote.  President  Barack Obama  sent the protocol to the Senate in
January 2011, and the Foreign Relations Committee approved it
July 26. Paul, a critic of the IRS who won his seat in 2010 with
the backing of the Tea Party movement, could require Democrats
who control the Senate to spend a week of floor time before
voting to ratify the protocol, which requires assent by two-
thirds of the senators. He said his office discussed changes
with the Swiss ambassador.  Under the current treaty, the Swiss can grant a U.S.
request seeking data on a taxpayer suspected of “tax fraud and
the like,” which involves acts such as using false documents or
third parties to disguise account ownership. The Swiss won’t
hand over data if taxpayers are suspected of evasion, a view
upheld April 5 by the Swiss Federal Administrative Court.  While  Switzerland ’s lawmakers approved amending the treaty,
the country’s federal government won’t ratify the protocol until
both countries agree on a solution that ends negotiations on the
investigation of Swiss banks, Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-
Schlumpf said before a vote in the Swiss parliament on March 5.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Sweden Rebuffs EU in Fight for Tougher Bank Capital Rules  The European Union will fail to reach a deal this week on
bank capital rules unless member countries get more freedom to
impose tougher requirements, Swedish Finance Minister  Anders
Borg  said.  Borg said in an interview with Bloomberg News that he is
not willing to compromise on “core principles” in the
negotiations.  EU nations have clashed over proposals by Michel Barnier,
the region’s financial services chief, to fix banks’ core
capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
with limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. The figure was proposed by Barnier in 2011 as part
of a draft law to apply rules agreed on by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision. Sweden wants to set a 10 percent buffer
from 2013, and raise it to 12 percent two years later.  Sweden, the U.K. and Spain are among a group of countries
warning the plans would unacceptably restrain national powers.
Other governments, including France, Italy and Austria, have
backed Barnier’s approach.  Separately, bank regulators in the European Union may win
powers to impose capital surcharges of as much as 3 percent on
lenders’ activities at home and abroad as part of a compromise
plan for applying Basel rules.  Denmark, which holds the EU’s rotating presidency, made the
proposal to resolve a clash over how much freedom national
authorities should have to impose capital rules on their banks
that exceed a minimum standard, a Danish presidency official
told reporters in Brussels yesterday.  Governments will seek to narrow their differences on the
draft law at a meeting tomorrow, with finance ministers
scheduled to meet again on May 15.  For more, click here.  Bahrain’s Islamic Regulator AAOIFI Issues 7 Financial Standards  Bahrain’s  Accounting & Auditing Organization for Islamic
Financial Institutions  issued seven Islamic standards for the
industry, the regulator’s Secretary General Khaled Al Faqih said
yesterday.  The guidelines will govern financial rights or the disposal
of rights, bankruptcy and liquidity management, Al Faqih said at
a news conference in the capital Manama. The agency also listed
rules for capital and investments protection, investment agency
contracts, profit calculations from investment instruments, and
the right to terminate legal contracts due to fraud, he said.  AAOIFI, which has 200 members, sets accounting and auditing
standards that are used in Bahrain, the Dubai International
Financial Centre, Jordan, Lebanon, Qatar, Sudan and Syria,
according to its website. It has issued 48 Shariah guidelines
and regulators in countries including Malaysia, Saudi Arabia,
Australia and  South Africa  base some of their rules on AAOIFI.  Municipal-Bond Regulator May Force Faster Trading Disclosure  The regulator of the $3.7 trillion U.S. municipal-bond
market may require faster disclosure of information about
trades.  The Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, which writes
regulations for the market, said yesterday it is considering
whether to require prices to be reported as soon as possible,
rather than within 15 minutes of trades as now done. It is also
evaluating whether to eliminate a five-day lag in publicizing
the size of trades greater than $1 million.  The delayed disclosure of large trades has been in place
since near real-time prices were introduced to the municipal
market seven years ago and has masked the scale of much trading.
Transactions above $1 million added up to an average $10 billion
a day last year, according to the board’s statistics, accounting
for some three-quarters of all trades.  The municipal-bond regulators have been working to bring
greater transparency to the market for state and local
government securities, where the amount of information available
has been less than in other markets.  The board said yesterday it plans to ask the public to
comment on whether trades should be reported as “soon as
practicable.”  NBAD Expects a ‘Solution’ on New U.A.E. Loan Rules, CEO Says  National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC  is in talks with the
central bank about rules that limit lending to the government
and its companies and expects a “solution,” said Chief
Executive Officer Michael Tomalin.  U.A.E. banks can lend no more than 100 percent of their
capital to local governments and the same to government-related
entities, the  central bank  said April 4. There was no limit
under previous rules. National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s exposure to
sovereign and quasi-sovereign clients is 199 percent of its
regulatory capital, according to estimates by Deutsche Bank AG.  The bank, the United Arab Emirates second-biggest bank by
assets, forecast lending to increase by about 10 percent this
year and its interest and fee income to rise by between 5
percent and 10 percent, Tomalin said. Loan growth is not likely
to be affected by the new rules, he said.  The lender expects its ratio of non-performing loans to
performing loans to peak at between 3.5 percent and 3.75 percent
from 3.03 percent in March, Tomalin said.  JPMorgan’s Zubrow Says Fed Risk Rule May Destabilize Markets  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said a  Federal Reserve  proposal to cut
risk by capping a bank’s dealings with any one lender,
corporation or foreign government fails to strike the “correct
balance” and may harm financial markets.  The plan “could destabilize markets,” Barry Zubrow,
executive vice president of corporate and regulatory affairs for
JPMorgan, said April 29 in a comment letter to the central bank.
The Fed is reaching “well beyond” the Dodd-Frank reform
legislation with “disruptive” standards that duplicate or
conflict with other rules and directives, he wrote.  Lenders including New York-based JPMorgan, the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank, are resisting Fed efforts to impose
tougher standards on too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse could
hurt the broader economy. Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  will meet
today with chief executive officers of the biggest banks
including JPMorgan’s  Jamie Dimon  to discuss the limits and
complaints about this year’s stress tests.  The proposal to limit credit exposure is designed to
contain the damage if a large company, foreign government or
bank should fail and threaten to take down other institutions
with it. Under the rule, a firm deemed systemically important
couldn’t have more than 10 percent of its counterparty risk tied
to one entity. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act proposed a 25 percent cap
while giving the Fed authority to tighten the standard to ensure
stability in financial markets.  The limit would apply to banks considered systemically
important and counterparties when each has more than $500
billion in total assets, and would count loans, derivatives and
other forms of credit.  For more, click here.  Cordray Divides Banks With Ability-to-Repay Loan Rule: Mortgages  Richard Cordray , the director of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau is taking steps to discourage lenders from
making home loans with risky features and outlining steps they
must take to verify borrowers’ finances before lending to them.  The policy is part of the “qualified mortgage” or QM
regulation. Banks that follow the guidelines will gain legal
protection against borrower defaults.  The rule, which may be released as soon as next month, is
dividing the banking industry with the largest mortgage firms
such as Wells Fargo & Co. and Bank of America Corp. siding with
some consumer groups that the provision should allow certain
lawsuits. Trade groups whose members include smaller lenders are
holding out for a version that would protect bankers entirely
from being sued, arguing that without the provision,  home loans 
will be costlier and harder to obtain.  The big banks consented to a weaker standard of legal
protection in exchange for a broad definition of the types of
permissible mortgages in the new rule, according to a March 7
letter to Cordray from the Clearing House Association, which
represents the largest lenders. This step would “combine
prudent lending with less litigation, benefiting homeowners,
investors and lenders alike,” according to the letter.  To obtain legal protection, a lender would have to meet
underwriting standards such as verifying a borrower’s income and
assets. Qualifying loans also couldn’t have features such as
interest-only payments or include fees and points totaling more
than 3 percent of the loan amount.  Cordray has called the regulation, required by the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act “one of our most important rulemakings.”  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  FSB Enhances Its Process for Monitoring Compensation Practices  The Financial Stability Board said it established a group
of experts from different jurisdictions to monitor different
countries implementation of the regulator’s compensation
practices.  The, group, known as the Compensation Monitoring Contact
Group, is a network of experts with regulatory or supervisory
responsibility on compensation practices within their own
jurisdictions, according to a statement by the FSB on its
website.  Regulation to Push Swap Spreads Wider, Greenwich Associates Says  Most companies that use interest-rate derivatives expect
tougher capital rules to push spreads on the contracts wider,
increasing their costs to hedge, according to a study by
 Greenwich Associates .  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision rules known as Basel
2.5 and Basel III have led to higher credit charges on swaps for
bank customers, increasing trading costs, the  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based consulting firm said yesterday. “The impact
will be felt even more widely when the new Basel capital
requirements are implemented by all derivatives dealers, which
is expected to happen before 2019,” the firm said in the
report.  While most derivatives users say they’re willing to absorb
the impact of wider spreads without reducing trading, a “large
share” of those surveyed said that having to post collateral
would cause them to reduce hedging or cut back their activity in
interest-rate derivatives, according to the report.  About $1.3 trillion in interest-rate derivatives were
traded last year, little changed from 2010, according to the
report.  Fed Said to Criticize Banks for Risk Models Used in Stress Tests  The Federal Reserve criticized how some of the 19 largest
U.S. banks calculated potential losses and planned dividends in
this year’s stress tests, people with knowledge of the process
said.  The critiques will be part of feedback letters sent to the
lenders this week that cover everything from data collection to
risk measurement, said three of the people, who declined to be
identified because communications with the Fed are private.
Flaws included marking down all  housing prices  at the same rate,
rather than matching them to specific regions, and planning
 dividends  that could drain needed capital.  The letters arrive as tensions mount between the largest
banks and the Fed over how new rules to make the financial
system safer will be carried out. Bankers have complained the
stress tests completed in March lack transparency and
underestimate their underwriting abilities, resulting in higher
losses on some asset classes than the lenders projected.  “We strongly urge the Federal Reserve to provide detailed
explanations of methodologies, models, techniques and underlying
assumptions,” five banking trade groups led by the Clearing
House Association said in an April 27 letter to the Fed. “It is
simply unfair to ask a bank to pass a test -- and manage toward
the standards of that test -- if the parameters are largely
unknown.”  The Fed critiques are the most detailed feedback the banks
have received on their 2012 stress-test submissions. The central
bank developed the stress tests during the depths of the
financial crisis. Regulators have said they want banks to manage
their capital to limit the risk of future taxpayer bailouts.  For more, click here.  Mexico Antitrust Agency Votes on America Movil Fine  Mexico’s antitrust agency made a decision yesterday on
whether to overturn, reduce or uphold a $1 billion fine against
 America Movil SAB (AMX) , Mexico’s largest phone carrier.  The agency won’t disclose the vote until the parties have
been notified, a requirement under Mexican law, it said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  America Movil, which is controlled by billionaire  Carlos
Slim , earlier offered to cut fees to rivals and provide
customers calls to other networks for no additional charge to
convince the agency to overturn the fine.  The company said yesterday in a filing that it proposed the
concessions in March during the antitrust agency’s review of the
fine. The penalty was assessed a year ago for monopolistic
practices in the market for fees charged to rivals.  If the agency upholds the penalty, America Movil expects to
seek an injunction, it said in the filing to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. It’s “not probable” that the company
will end up having to pay the fine, it said.  Courts/Tribunals  Fidelity’s Stairs Traded on Inside Information, Hong Kong Finds  Former Fidelity Management & Research Co. portfolio manager
George Stairs traded shares of  Chaoda Modern Agriculture
Holdings Ltd. (682)  on inside information of a share placement, a Hong
Kong tribunal found.  Chaoda Chairman Kwok Ho and Chief Financial Officer Andy
Chan, who were also specified in the civil inquiry, didn’t break
insider trading laws when they divulged the Chinese vegetable
producer’s plans to issue shares on investor calls, according to
the 135-page  ruling  by Hong Kong’s Market Misconduct Tribunal.  The three-member tribunal, led by High Court Judge Michael
Lunn, held hearings in February and March to investigate whether
material non-public information was improperly disclosed on
phone calls involving Kwok, Chan and U.S. institutional
investors in 2009. Stairs took part in one of those calls and
sold some of his Chaoda holdings before the placement, according
to Hong Kong’s government.  Vincent Loporchio , a Boston-based spokesman for Fidelity,
wrote in an e-mail yesterday that the company is reviewing the
tribunal’s conclusions, and said the panel didn’t “indicate any
criticism of Fidelity’s policies and procedures.”  The company said in February that it had concluded after an
internal review that their employees hadn’t violated any laws or
regulations. Stairs told the tribunal he believed the share-
placement information was already public.  Kwok and Chan didn’t commit insider trading when they
“deliberately and knowingly ignored the proper protocols for
providing information” to Stairs, according to the tribunal.  BlackRock employees who also participated in conference
calls with Kwok and Chan in June 2009 reported the information
to their compliance department “immediately” and were
restricted from trading, the tribunal heard.  Comings and Goings  SEC Names New York Chief Canellos Deputy Enforcement Director  George Canellos, head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s  New York  regional office, has been named deputy
director of the agency’s enforcement division, the agency said
in a statement yesterday.  Canellos, 47, will take over the job vacated by  Lorin
Reisner , who left the SEC in January to become a top federal
prosecutor in New York, the agency said. Canellos joined the
agency in 2009, overseeing about 400 staff, including
investigators, accountants and examiners responsible for
policing more than 4,000 investment banks, advisers, brokers and
 hedge funds .  He will take over as deputy enforcement director on June 4,
and Andrew Calamari, senior associate regional director, will
become acting head of the New York office, the SEC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 