-- Azerbaijan, Turkey to Sign Delayed Tanap Pipe Deal End of June
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2012-05-01T15:36:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/azerbaijan-turkey-to-sign-delayed-tanap-pipe-deal-end-of-june.html
Azerbaijan  and Turkey plan to complete
delayed talks on the proposed Trans-Anatolia pipeline that will
carry Azeri natural gas across Turkey to  Europe  by the end of
the month.  “We aim to complete talks this month and sign the inter-
governmental agreement by June 30,” Elshad Nasirov, vice
president of State Oil Co. of Azerbaijan, known as Socar, said
today in an interview in the capital of Baku. The deal was held
up issues over tax and the investment regime, according to
Nasirov.  The two sides signed a memorandum of understanding in
December on the 2,000-kilometer (1,240-mile) pipeline known as
Tanap that will transport gas from the BP Plc-led Shah Deniz
field in Azerbaijan’s section of the  Caspian Sea . Socar has an
80 percent stake, while Turkey’s state pipeline company Boru
Hatlari Ile Petrol Tasima AS, or Botas, and oil company Turkiye
Petrolleri AO have a combined 20 percent.  At an estimated cost of $5 billion to $7 billion, the
partners plan to build Tanap before the start of production from
the second phase of the Shah Deniz project, due in 2017 or 2018.
It will link up with other proposed pipelines, such as Nabucco
West, that are vying for the rights to deliver the fuel on to
the European Union from the Turkish border.  Size of Stakes  The delay in agreeing a deal wasn’t caused by disagreements
over the size of stakes in the project, according to Nasirov.
The Azeri news agency Turan cited unidentified Turkish officials
in March as saying that  Turkey  wanted to boost its stake in
Tanap to as much as 50 percent.  “We have not received any proposal from the Turkish side
on this,” Nasirov said today.  Tanap will initially be able to carry 16 billion cubic
meters of gas a year, with capacity rising to more than 30
billion cubic meters as and when additional sources are found,
Nasirov said.  The Shah Deniz group will choose between Nabucco West, a
revised version of the EU-backed project, and BP’s South East
Europe Pipeline option, or SEEP, “no later than June 30,” he
said.  While Nabucco is a “fantastic” project even though it has
financial difficulties, SEEP is less advanced, according to
Nasirov.  The winner of the Central European route will then compete
with the Trans-Adriatic Pipeline, or TAP, that’s being developed
by EGL AG,  Statoil ASA (STL)  and EON Ruhrgas AG. The Shah Deniz
partners will make a final decision by mid-2013, he said.  Azerbaijan can supply 10 billion cubic meters of gas to
Europe for at least 25 years, the executive said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  