-- Bachus Says Ethics Office Cleared Him in Securities Case
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bachus-says-ethics-office-cleared-him-in-securities-case.html
U.S. House Financial Services
Committee Chairman  Spencer Bachus  said he has been cleared by a
congressional ethics office of allegations he improperly traded
securities after he and other lawmakers were briefed by Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  during the 2008 financial crisis.  Bachus said in a statement yesterday that he was informed
the six-member Office of Congressional Ethics voted unanimously
at an April 27 meeting to close its inquiry.  “The OCE’s unanimous dismissal of these false allegations
is a welcome conclusion to a destructive and disruptive media-
generated assault,” Bachus, an Alabama Republican, said in the
statement.  Bill Cable, a spokesman for the Office of Congressional
Ethics, didn’t immediately return a reporter’s e-mailed request
for comment.  The allegations helped spur the enactment of legislation
that bars members of Congress or staffers from trading on
private information received by Congress. It also bars members
from participating in initial public offerings of stock.
President  Barack Obama  signed the measure, the Stock Act, or
Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge, S. 2038, into law last
month.  The independent Office of Congressional Ethics reviews
allegations of ethical impropriety against House members. It has
the authority to refer charges to the House Ethics Committee for
disciplinary action.  Buying Stock  The office opened its probe late last year after  CBS
Corp. (CBS) ’s “60 Minutes” television program reported in November
that Bachus, 64, and other members of Congress bought stock in
companies while legislation that might affect those businesses
was being debated.  Two former Securities and Exchange Commission chairmen,
Republicans Roderick Hills and  Harvey Pitt , came to Bachus’s
defense in a March 4 op-ed column in the Birmingham News.  “Attending a briefing on the declining economy and what to
do about it -- known to anyone breathing and alive, and
unrelated to specific companies (or classes of companies) --
cannot create ‘insider trading’ liability,” they wrote. “In
the meeting of policy makers to consider responses to our
economic meltdown, no one discussed information related to any
specific company (or class of companies) that was useful to
someone seeking to obtain an advantage in connection with
securities transactions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  