-- Bad Models Mistook Housing Bust for Dot-Com Bubble
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bad-models-mistook-housing-bust-for-dot-com-bubble.html
In a speech last month about the
financial crisis, Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
trenchantly noted that the initial losses from the dot-com
bust were about the same size as those from the housing
meltdown -- yet the two episodes had very different
economic consequences.  What Bernanke didn’t say was that the reason the Fed,
along with every other official forecaster, underestimated
the depth of the latest downturn so badly is that its
models effectively treated the housing collapse as if it
were merely  dot-com bust 2.0 . And only modest progress has
been made toward avoiding that same mistake in the future.  Bernanke said in his  speech on April 13 , at a
conference sponsored by the Russell Sage Foundation and the
Century Foundation, that “any theory of the crisis that
ties its magnitude to the size of the housing bust must
also explain why the fall of dot-com stock prices just a
few years earlier, which destroyed as much or more paper
wealth -- more than $8 trillion -- resulted in a relatively
short and mild recession and no major financial
instability.”  He then pointed to the concentration of losses in the
financial industry from the housing bust, as opposed to the
broad dispersion of fallout from the bursting of the dot-
com bubble, as the “principal explanation of why the busts
in dot-com stock prices and in the housing and mortgage
markets had such markedly different effects.”  The Fed chairman is right: The housing crisis was much
more damaging because the initial impact was concentrated
in a highly leveraged financial sector and then
substantially amplified as those losses cascaded.  Imperfect Models  The problem is that the macroeconometric models used
by the Fed -- like those used by the  Congressional Budget
Office , the White House and others -- had at best a very
rudimentary financial sector built into them. As a result,
they took into account the macroeconomic impact from the
housing bust -- but for the most part didn’t reflect the
concentrated loss of wealth and degree of leverage in the
financial industry.  In other words, the official models effectively
ignored the very distinction that Bernanke highlighted as
being crucial to distinguishing the housing collapse from
the tech bust. And so the models completely missed the
recession’s severity.  In late 2007, for example, the midpoint of the range
that the Fed projected for real gross-domestic-product
growth in 2008 was more than 2 percent. Instead, real GDP
declined by more than 3 percent that year. In early 2008,
the Fed projected the economy would expand 2.4 percent in
2009. Instead, real GDP fell 0.5 percent. Those are big
forecast errors: The 70 percent confidence interval for
one-year-ahead projections is plus or minus 1.2 percentage
points. The 2007 projection for 2008 was off by more than
five percentage points.  The Fed was far from alone in being overly optimistic;
every formal macroeconometric model that I’m aware of made
the same mistake. In early 2008, for example, forecasts for
2009 from both the Congressional Budget Office (which I ran
at the time) and the  Bush administration  were roughly in
line with, and therefore just as wrong, as the Fed’s.  A paper delivered at the same conference where
Bernanke spoke last month suggests one way to address the
problem. The economists Simon Gilchrist of  Boston
University  and Egon Zakrajsek of the Fed staff augmented a
traditional macroeconomic model with a measure of stress in
the financial industry: credit spreads on bonds issued by
financial institutions. Those spreads barely moved
following the tech bust, but they  widened substantially 
after the housing collapse.  Accounting for Stress  This model, the authors conclude, “can account for the
broad movements in consumption, investment, hours worked
and output observed during this period.” And since 2007,
some progress has been made in incorporating metrics of
financial stress into macroeconometric models. But the
progress remains inadequate.  So here’s a rough rule of thumb: Whenever a reasonable
financial-stress index, such as that produced by Gilchrist
and Zakrajsek, is particularly elevated, be very skeptical
of economic forecasts from models that pay scant attention
to the financial industry. They will be making the housing-
meltdown-is-just-like-the-tech-one mistake all over again.  Perhaps fiscal and monetary policy were unaffected by
the substantial forecast errors made at the beginning of
this crisis. In other words, perhaps if the model
predictions had been more dire, the response to the crisis
would have been no different. But I doubt it.  ( Peter Orszag  is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the upside of  Greek
dysfunction  and the  U.S. Senate ’s attempt to  reform the
Postal Service ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  Romney campaign’s
ad strategy ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing growth ; Clive
Crook on the  dogma of inequality .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  