-- Baltimore, Pension Fund Consolidate Libor Suit in N.Y.
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-01T20:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/baltimore-pension-fund-consolidate-libor-suit-in-new-york-1-.html
The City of Baltimore and New Britain
Firefighters’ Benefit Fund filed a consolidated and amended
complaint against  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) ,  Bank of
America Corp.  and more than a dozen other banks, alleging they
artificially “suppressed” the London interbank offered rate.  “This case arises from a global conspiracy to manipulate
Libor -- the reference point for determining interest rates for
trillions of dollars in financial instruments worldwide -- by a
cadre of prominent financial institutions,” the fund said in
the amended complaint filed in  Manhattan  federal court.  The complaint is one of four being filed in the class-
action lawsuit today, according to William Butterfield, a
partner with Hausfeld LLP in  Washington . The firm has been
selected as co-lead counsel for the city of Baltimore in the
case. Baltimore filed its initial complaint in August.  An analysis by outside consultants found that Libor was
suppressed from 2007 to 2008, allowing the banks to mask their
level of risk during a period of financial crisis, according to
the complaint.  “By submitting an artificially low Libor quote,” banks
send “a false signal that it is less risky than it truly is,”
according to the complaint.  In addition, for banks to submit Libor bids below the
Federal Reserve Eurodollar Deposit Rate, the rate at which banks
in the London Eurodollar market lend U.S. dollars to one
another, “would be extremely unusual and is strong evidence of
collusion among the banks,” according to the complaint.  Investigations Under Way  Investigations regarding alleged manipulation of Libor are
under way in the U.S., Switzerland,  Japan , the U.K.,  Canada , the
European Union and  Singapore  by nine government agencies,
including the  Justice Department , the Securities and Exchange
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission,
according to the complaint.  The first public notice of the government investigations
came when  UBS AG (UBSN)  disclosed in a March 2011 filing it had
received subpoenas from the SEC, the CFTC and the Justice
Department, and was cooperating with investigators, according to
the complaint.  The Justice Department sent a letter to the federal judge
presiding over the cases, Naomi Reice Buchwald in Manhattan,
saying it is “conducting a criminal investigation into alleged
manipulation of certain benchmark interest rates” including
those for “several currencies” on the Libor exchange.  21 Class Actions  Buchwald is presiding over litigation involving 21 class-
action, or group, suits against banks accused of conspiring to
suppress Libor by understating their borrowing costs to the
British Bankers Association.  By manipulating the Libor rate, the banks “surreptitiously
bilked investors--the lenders--of their rightful rates of return
on their investments, reaping hundreds of millions, if not
billions, of dollars in ill-gotten gains,” according to a
second complaint filed today by a  New York  resident, Ellen
Gelboim, and Linda Zacher, of  Bryn Mawr , Pennsylvania.  The two women, who are beneficiaries of retirement accounts
that owned Libor-based securities, said they and other class
members owned more than $500 billion of Libor-based financial
instruments that paid artificially low returns in the period
between August 2007 and May 2010.  Libor is the primary benchmark for short-term  interest
rates . It plays a crucial role in the operation of financial
markets, according to the complaint filed by Gelboim and Zacher.  Basis of Libor  It is based on borrowing rates reported by panels of banks
created by the British Bankers’ Association, from which an
average rate is calculated for 10 currencies and for maturities
ranging from overnight to one year, the complaint said.  Libor is used as the basis for securities including the
rate of return on short-term, fixed-rate notes as well as for
the pricing and settlement of Eurodollar futures and options--
the most actively traded interest-rate futures contracts on the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the complaint said. The  British
Bankers Association  has called it “the world’s most important
number” on its website.  The case is In re: LIBOR-Based Financial Instruments
Antitrust Litigation, 11-MD-2262, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 