-- Bank Pay Standards Need Stronger Implementation Effort, FSB Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-05-01T00:34:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bank-pay-standards-need-stronger-implementation-effort-fsb-says.html
Regulators in the Group of 20 nations
must work harder to implement international guidelines on
 executive compensation  for bankers, according to the Financial
Stability Board.  The FSB’s standards on aligning pay with “prudent” risk-
taking are the “most challenging” for regulators to impose,
the board said yesterday in a  report . Authorities differ over
how best to tie pay to performance while nations including
Brazil,  China  and Japan don’t see compensation practices as
“significant sources of risk,” according to the report.  The board is overseeing the world’s regulators as they
grapple with new standards for executive pay that seek to reduce
the risk of another financial crisis. Compensation practices at
large financial institutions were a “key contributing factor”
to the crisis, the FSB said in the report.  “Many national authorities have taken the necessary
regulatory actions, supervisory oversight has intensified, and
the governance of compensation schemes at firms has improved,”
the board said. “Despite these considerable strides, more work
is necessary to achieve sound compensation practices.”  Barclays Plc (BARC)  investors protested last week as 27 percent of
shareholders voted against Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond’s 12 million-pound ($19.5 million) compensation package.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  investors rejected CEO Vikram Pandit’s $15
million pay last month while about a third of  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  shareholders opposed that bank’s plan.  ‘Substantial Portion’  Regulators have taken different approaches to implementing
FSB standards that cover variable pay and deferred compensation.
The board recommends that a “substantial portion” of bank
executives’ compensation should be based on individual and firm-
wide performance. Lenders also should stagger pay through
deferral arrangements over a period of years.  Some regulators, including those in the U.K., France,
 Germany , the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and Singapore, have
incorporated these standards as minimum requirements. Regulators
in the U.S.,  Japan , Australia, Canada and  Hong Kong  have given
banks more flexibility because of their “business models and
risk profiles,” according to the FBS.  The board said it had put in place a procedure allowing
banks to complain, via their national authorities, when
competitors in another country don’t fully apply the rules.  “More work is necessary to overcome constraints to full
implementation by individual national authorities and to address
concerns by firms of an uneven playing field,” the FSB said in
an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  