-- Bank Errors Cited in Fannie Mae Principal-Reduction Test Failure
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-05-01T22:16:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bank-errors-cited-in-fannie-mae-principal-reduction-test-failure.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  employees ruined a
pilot program to test principal reductions on mortgages
guaranteed by Fannie Mae because they failed to correctly input
data into a computer system, the  Federal Housing Finance Agency 
said in a letter released today.  Details of the failed program came as Democratic lawmakers
attempted to boost pressure on the FHFA to allow writedowns of
principal on mortgages guaranteed by Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac .
Edward J. DeMarco, the acting director of the FHFA, has barred
the taxpayer-owned companies from reducing principal on
seriously delinquent loans on the grounds that it would hurt
their bottom line.  The FHFA is calculating whether changing the policy makes
sense in light of new financial incentives the U.S. Treasury
Department is offering the companies to forgive principal,
DeMarco said in a letter to Representative  Elijah Cummings , a
Maryland Democrat, and Representative John Tierney, a
Massachusetts Democrat.  The two lawmakers said earlier in the day that an FHFA
internal study found that a pilot program on principal
reductions would save money for the taxpayer-owned companies,
but was killed for ideological reasons. In February, the two
lawmakers similarly charged that DeMarco pulled the plug on a
plan to reduce principal for ideological reasons, citing a
former  Fannie Mae  employee.  DeMarco said the two Democrats were wrong. “I strongly
disagree with any characterization of FHFA’s work or motives as
anything but in keeping with the professionalism expected of
this agency,” he wrote today’s letter.  April 12 Letter  DeMarco also released an April 12 letter that he sent the
lawmakers outlining the details of two Fannie Mae pilot
programs. Both programs were terminated before results could be
evaluated, he said.  One, in conjunction with Wells Fargo, was terminated due to
an “operational incident,” the letter said. Wells Fargo
employees were supposed type in the amount of principal they
reduced on troubled loans into a computer system. There were
errors in the manual entry, invalidating the data on several
hundred loans.  “This failure added to the operational problems seen with
the pilot program,” the letter said.  Similarly, a pilot program with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Citibank
unit was terminated after officials at the bank “opted not to
move forward,” DeMarco wrote.  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have completed 1.1 million loan
modifications without principal reductions since the end of
2008, and have engaged in more than 1 million other transactions
to avert foreclosures, including short sales or repayment plans.  About 3 million borrowers are underwater on loans backed by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Of those, three in four are current
on their payments.  The U.S. government has spent $190 billion to shore up
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac since they were taken into federal
conservatorship in 2008 after their investments in risky loans
soured.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  