-- Bear Creek Expects Peru Project Rights Resolution by Year-End
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-05-01T21:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bear-creek-expects-peru-project-rights-resolution-by-year-end.html
Bear Creek Mining Corp. (BCM)  expects to
resolve a dispute with Peru by the end of this year, possibly by
sharing profits with the local community, after the government
withdrew a concession to develop the Santa Ana silver deposit.  Bear Creek may agree to give local communities 2 percent to
3 percent of net profit from the deposit as part of a deal to
restore its rights to build and operate the mine, Chief
Executive Officer Andrew Swarthout said in an interview in
Toronto today.  “There’s a strong willingness to resolve this problem,”
he told analysts and investors at a presentation earlier today.
“We’ve had some very constructive discussions.”  Peru’s government withdrew Vancouver-based Bear Creek’s
concession to develop the Santa Ana project as it sought to end
a month of protests seeking a ban on mining and energy
investment in the southern Andean region of Puno.  Newmont Mining, the largest U.S. gold producer, suspended
construction of its $4.8 billion Minas Conga project in  Peru  in
November after weeks of clashes between police and opponents of
the mine. Newmont said last week it’s evaluating the
recommendations of a government report that said the project
needs “substantive improvements.”  Swarthout said the uncertainty over Minas Conga probably
needs to be resolved before Bear Creek sees progress on an
agreement for recovering the Santa Ana rights.  Bear Creek  declined  3 percent to C$3.25 at the close in
Toronto. The shares have fallen 60 percent in the past 12 months
while silver prices have dropped 36 percent.  Corani Project  The mine may cost $70.8 million and produce 5 million
ounces annually in its first six years, according to a January
2011  feasibility study . Bear Creek, which says the withdrawal
was unconstitutional, is targeting annual silver production of
15 million to 20 million ounces by 2015, Swarthout said.  The company’s larger Corani project in Peru may cost $574
million and produce 13.4 million ounces of silver annually in
its first five years, according to a  Nov. 9 feasibility study .
The company will submit a permitting application this year,
Swarthout said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  