-- BNY Mellon Wins Dismissal of Virginia Currency-Trading Suit
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-01T23:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bny-mellon-wins-dismissal-of-virginia-currency-trading-suit-1-.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp.  won
dismissal of  Virginia ’s lawsuit claiming the world’s largest
custody bank defrauded state pension funds through foreign-
currency transactions.  Fairfax County Circuit Judge Terrence Ney dismissed the
complaint today, saying the state couldn’t proceed under the
Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act. A copy of the ruling was
provided by the bank and couldn’t be immediately confirmed with
the court after regular business hours.  “We are pleased that the Virginia court dismissed the
entire case against us, vindicating our position that the claims
were without merit,” Kevin Heine, a spokesman for the New York-
based bank, said in a statement.  BNY Mellon has been sued by several states and the U.S.
Attorney in  Manhattan  over pricing of foreign-currency trades on
behalf of clients. Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli  sued
the bank last year, claiming the bank profited from transactions
at the expense of pension funds.  Brian Gottstein, a spokesman for Cuccinelli, said the
office was reviewing the decision and “determining what our
next action will be.”  “It is important to remember that the court’s ruling does
not absolve the bank of wrongdoing,” Gottstein said in a
statement.  Virginia Law  The Virginia Fraud Against Taxpayers Act requires the
submission of a claim for payment, which didn’t occur, the judge
said. Accounting statements submitted by the bank to the state
don’t request or demand money and instead are records or
statements of past transactions, according the ruling.  There may be other potential causes of action against the
bank, and any redress sought on behalf of the pension funds will
have to come by “an avenue other than” the act, the judge
said.  “The court cannot rewrite the VFATA in order to have it
comport with what the court believed the act may be trying to
address,” Ney said.  The case is  Commonwealth of Virginia  v.  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , 09-15377, Circuit Court for the County of Fairfax,
Virginia (Fairfax).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  