-- Bo Scandal Gives U.S. Opening on China Activist’s Case
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H a r r i n g t o n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-05-02T00:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bo-scandal-gives-u-s-opening-on-china-activist-s-case.html
China ’s struggle to contain its
biggest political shakeup in two decades may give the Obama
administration an opening to resolve the case of a blind
activist who reportedly fled to the American embassy in Beijing.  A U.S. official confirmed for the first time yesterday that
negotiations on the fate of  Chen Guangcheng  are under way in the
Chinese capital between Assistant Secretary of State  Kurt Campbell  and Chinese officials. The official spoke on condition
of anonymity about the sensitive talks ahead of U.S. Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton’s arrival today in Beijing for annual
meetings.  Chen is under American protection in Beijing after escaping
house arrest in Shandong province last week, ChinaAid, a human
rights group based in Midland,  Texas , reported. Clinton vowed
April 30 to raise human rights issues with Chinese authorities
during talks in Beijing this week, and Assistant Secretary of
State for Human Rights  Michael Posner  is among the
administration officials accompanying her.  China has little incentive to take a hard line on Chen as
it grapples with the ouster of Politburo member Bo Xilai and the
arrest of his wife and an aide on suspicion of killing a British
businessman, former U.S. State Department official Kenneth Quinones said. Bo’s downfall has sparked the biggest upheaval
since the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests.  “Eventually a reason will be found to admit him to the
United States for medical reasons or to allow him to go to a
third nation,” said Quinones, now a professor at Akita
International University in  Japan . “China’s interest right now
is to retain the respect of the international community and
minimize potential damage to the future image of China.”  Similar Case  The Chen case resembles that of Fang Lizhi, a physics
professor who was housed in the U.S. embassy in Beijing for 13
months before he left the country after the Tiananmen uprising.  “It worked for Fang Lizhi after a long, long period of
waiting,” said Lowell Dittmer, a professor of political science
and China specialist at the  University of California , Berkeley.
“So I think it should be possible -- it’s basically a question
of China saving face.”  Officials from both countries have rushed to resolve Chen’s
case as China prepares to host Clinton and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  this week for the annual talks. Campbell
arrived in Beijing April 29, earlier than planned, to prepare
for the gathering, two U.S. officials said on condition of
anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter.  While declining to comment directly on Chen’s case,
President  Barack Obama  said April 30, “Every time we meet with
China the issue of human rights comes up.”  Romney’s Advice  Former Massachusetts governor  Mitt Romney , Obama’s
presumptive Republican opponent in November’s presidential
election, said that Obama should negotiate “one on one” with
Chinese leaders to ensure the safety of a dissident’s family
against government authorities.  Obama needs to convey that “there should be a real effort
on the part of the Chinese government to make sure that the
abuses that have been described against Mister Chen’s wife and
his family stop immediately,” Romney said yesterday on CBS’s
“This Morning.”  Complicating matters is the uncertainty of whether Chen is
willing to leave China, said Stuart Harris, an emeritus
professor of international relations at  Australian National
University  in Canberra.  “The Americans would have to persuade him that he has to
go, otherwise his family is not safe,” Harris said. “That
would be the first obstacle to overcome. The second would be
China’s willingness to let him go. At the present time they’ve
got a lot of problems on their plate without having another
one.”  Harry Wu  Another possible template for the Chen case is that of
Harry Wu, who was deported from China in 1995, hours after he
was sentenced to 15 years in prison for spying. A harsh sentence
for Chen followed by a deportation is another way China could
justify his release, Berkeley’s Dittmer said.  “I would say that at this point the Chinese government is
trying to negotiate a deal in which he travels to a third
country, not the  United States  and not staying in China,” said
Linda Jakobson, East Asia program director at the Lowy Institute
for International Policy in Sydney. “Most dissidents who leave
China become rather rapidly less influential than when they were
in China standing up to the authorities.”  Bo Xilai’s wife, Gu Kailai, was taken into custody for
involvement in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood,
Xinhua News Agency reported April 10. The state-run agency said
Gu and Heywood had “a conflict over economic interests.” Bo,
62, was suspended as Communist Party chief of the municipality
of Chongqing in March.  ‘No Information’  Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai, speaking at a
news conference in Beijing April 29 said he had “no
information” about Chen. Asked about Chen on “Fox News
Sunday,” Deputy National Security Adviser  John Brennan  said,
“We are working very closely with the individuals involved in
this,” and declined further comment.  Obama has “faced similar situations” in which he’s had to
balance human rights and diplomatic issues, and the U.S.
government will “find the right way forward,” Brennan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Harrington in Tokyo at 
 pharrington8@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  