-- BofA Said to Plan More Than 300 Job Cuts at Montag Units
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-05-01T15:49:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bofa-said-to-plan-more-than-300-job-cuts-at-montag-units.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-
largest U.S. lender, plans to cut more than 300 jobs from
corporate and investment banking and trading units run by Thomas K. Montag as underperformers are culled from its ranks,
according to a person briefed on the matter.  The firm will target workers on desks where  business  has
slowed and may inform those affected this month, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based firm’s plans are private. The reductions
are mostly separate from the companywide cost-cutting program
called Project New BAC, the person said.  Wall Street firms including Bank of America and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  are dismissing staff as revenue wavers amid new
regulations and the  European debt crisis . Chief Executive
Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , whose efficiency plan may target as
much as $8 billion in annual savings, announced 30,000 job cuts
last year in retail banking and support units.  Reductions at the investment banking and trading units will
be spread among junior and senior employees, said the person.
The company will also reduce headcount in co-chief operating
officer Montag’s operations by less than 2,000 people after
selling non-U.S. wealth management units, said the person. Bank
of America solicited bids last month for the business, which has
about $90 billion in assets under management.  Junior Bankers  One planned change that did come from Project New BAC is a
reorganization of junior investment bankers, said the person.
The firm will consolidate employees working in related sectors,
such as technology, telecommunications and media, so that they
can be deployed to areas with the most business. The firm
currently has junior employees devoted to specific industries.  The bank told  investors  in April that Project New BAC’s
scrutiny of Montag’s units probably would be completed this
month. Jessica Oppenheim, a Bank of America spokeswoman, said
she couldn’t comment on the job cuts. The Wall Street Journal
reported on the eliminations yesterday.  In March, Bank of America cut debt and equity traders and
salespeople, including more than half a dozen in mortgages. The
entire bank had 278,688 full-time workers as of March 31.  Moynihan, 52, has said he’s counting on trading units to
help revive income at the lender, whose consumer operations have
been hobbled by more than $40 billion of expenses tied to faulty
mortgages. Montag’s units swung to a profit in the first
quarter, with positive trading revenue every day.  Trading Results  Sales and trading revenue excluding accounting adjustments
climbed to $5.2 billion in the first three months of the year
from $2 billion in the fourth quarter and $5 billion a year
earlier. Revenue in investment and corporate banking fell 5
percent to $4.5 billion from a year earlier on lower fees.  Bank of America reorganized its reporting lines this year,
combining deposit, credit-card and small business units into a
new consumer-and-business banking  division  led by co-Chief
Operating Officer David Darnell, 59. He also oversees real
estate and wealth-management units.  Operations run by Montag, 55, the former Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. trading head promoted to co-chief operating officer
in September, were split into global markets and banking units.  Bank of America advanced 2.7 percent to $8.33 at 11:44 a.m.
in  New York . The shares gained 50 percent since the start of the
year, the best showing in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  