-- Bolivia Seizes Unit of Spanish Power Company Red Electrica
-- B y   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-05-01T18:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bolivia-seizing-assets-of-spanish-power-generator-red-electrica.html
Bolivia is nationalizing the local
assets of  Spain ’s  Red Electrica Corp. (REE) , giving the government
control of the Andean nation’s power grid two weeks after
neighboring  Argentina  seized its biggest  oil company .  President  Evo Morales  signed the decree today, saying the
Alcobendas, Spain-based company’s local investment was
inadequate and energy should be controlled by the government,
according to a statement on the presidential website. Bolivia
generated 45.7 million euros ($60.4 million) in revenue for Red
Electrica in 2011, less than 3 percent of total company sales.  Morales, a 52-year-old ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo
Chavez , is echoing Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner in citing underinvestment and strategic reasons for
nationalizing the company. Fernandez seized oil producer YPF SA
on April 16 from Madrid-based Repsol  YPF SA. (YPFD)  Since taking office
in 2006, Morales has taken over gas fields, oil refineries,
pension funds, telecommunications companies and a tin smelter to
increase state control of the $20 billion economy.  “A sovereign move to seize private assets often doesn’t
happen in isolation,” Lawrence Goodman, a former U.S. Treasury
official and president of the Center for Financial Stability, a
research firm, said by phone from New York. “The energy sector
is often an industry that gets targeted for expropriation and
we’ve seen it across a wide range of countries.”  An independent auditor will set compensation to be paid to
the Spanish company within 180 days, and will account for back
taxes and environmental damage caused by the company, according
to a report by the Bolivian state news agency.  Shares Drop  YPF (YPF)  American depositary receipts have declined 65 percent
since speculation about a government takeover first emerged at
the end of January, helping contribute to a 34 percent drop in
Repsol shares traded in  Madrid .  Argentina’s Senate approved Fernandez’s proposal to
expropriate YPF on April 26, 10 days after she announced her
plan to take over the company and appointed two government
officials to take over operations. The nationalization
heightened concern about the sustainability of the country’s
economic policies and the costs to insure against an Argentine
default soared as sovereign bond prices tumbled.  Red Electrica  American depositary receipts  fell as much as
1.7 percent after the nationalization was announced. They rose
3.6 percent to $8.45 as of 2:38 p.m. in  New York , with 12,500
shares having changed hands. The Bolivian unit isn’t listed.  2002 Purchase  Red Electrica bought the Bolivian company, Transportadora
de Electricidad SA, in 2002 from Union Fenosa SA, Spain’s No. 3
generator. Fenosa had bought 69 percent of the Bolivian company
in 1997 in a state asset sale. Transportadora de Electricidad
serves 85 percent of the Bolivian power market.  “This company was ours before and we are nationalizing what
was ours before,” Morales said in the government statement. He
ordered the military to stand guard over the company’s assets.  Argentina’s takeover of YPF was designed in part to limit
capital flight out of the country, while Morales doesn’t face
the same issues in  Bolivia , Roger Tissot, the managing
director of Tissot Associates and a Latin America energy
analyst, said in a telephone interview from Calgary.  “Contrary to Cristina his finances are doing quite
well,” Tissot said. “She was running out of money, it had to do
with a balance of payments crisis. The difference here is I
don’t think Bolivia is running out of money like Argentina.”  Bolivian international reserves climbed about 48 percent in
the past two years to $12.6 billion. Finance Minister Luis Arce
said in March that the economy will expanded 5.5 percent this
year after growth of 5.1 percent in 2011. Bolivia had an
estimated budget surplus of 0.8 percent of gross domestic
product last year.  Bolivian Investment  Transportadora de Electricidad was investing about $5
million a year in Bolivia, when it should have been spending
about three times that amount, Bolivian Communications Minister
Amanda Davila said in a telephone interview from  La Paz .  “Energy is a strategic sector that should be subject to
government control,” Davila said. “Red Electrica’s investments
were excessively low.”  The seizure may further undermine Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy , as support for his four-month-old government
wanes amid budget cuts. Industry Minister Jose Manuel Soria
responded to Argentina’s nationalization of YPF last month
pledging “clear and decisive” measures for trade and industry
in retaliation for what he called a “hostile” act. Two weeks
later the only measure the government had adopted is a
ministerial order designed to reduce demand for Argentine
biodiesel.  ‘Clear Measures’  “It’s going to hurt Rajoy and he’s going to have to step
up the response,”  Ismael Crespo , a political science professor
at the Fundacion Ortega-Maranon research institute in Madrid,
said in a telephone interview. “The only way of stopping
further repeats of this is for clear measures from the EU.”  The Spanish government is studying the situation, said an
official who asked not to be identified because of policy.  Red Electrica hopes to reach an agreement with Bolivia that
allows for “appropriate compensation” for the nationalization,
Antonio Prada, a spokesman for the Spanish grid operator, said
in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  