-- BP Earnings Retreat on Weaker Output, Refining
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-05-01T15:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bp-first-quarter-earnings-retreat-as-production-weakens.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest oil
company, said profit declined 19 percent in the first quarter as
asset sales lowered production and refining weakened.  Net income dropped to $5.9 billion from $7.3 billion in the
first quarter of 2011, the London-based company said today in a
statement. Excluding one-time items and changes in inventories,
profit missed analyst estimates. Oil and gas production,
including output from the Russian TNK-BP venture, slipped 3.6
percent to 3.45 million barrels of oil equivalent a day.  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley is trying to convince
investors that BP has overcome the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill
by selling off assets, gaining access to deepwater and U.S.
shale opportunities and raising the dividend. The company said
output may slip again in the second quarter.  “These are disappointing numbers,” said Stuart Joyner, an
analyst at Investec Securities Ltd. in  London . “They’re in
between disposals taking earnings down and new growth
opportunities coming through.”  Adjusted first-quarter earnings fell to $4.8 billion from
$5.5 billion a year earlier. The average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for profit of $5 billion on that
basis. The company maintained the dividend at 8 cents a share
after raising it from 7 cents for the fourth quarter.  Shell, Exxon  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Europe’s largest oil company, last
week reported profits that beat expectations as output rose, and
it raised its target for asset sales. Exxon Mobil Corp., the
world’s biggest energy company, said profit fell 11 percent on
the biggest drop in production since 2008.  BP fell 0.8 percent in London. The shares are down more
than 30 percent since the spill.  The Macondo blowout killed 11 workers and caused the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. BP still faces a trial over
liability for the disaster with the  U.S. Department of Justice 
after agreeing to pay at least $7.8 billion to victims of the
spill in March.  “The real challenge is at what point the Department of
Justice problems are going to be washed away,” said  James Bevan , chief investment officer at CCLA Investment Management
Ltd., in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “The shares
aren’t going to rise materially until that news is out of the
way.”  Asset Sales  Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary said the company
remains prepared to settle with the government on reasonable
terms. He declined to comment further on the talks or the trial
in a conference call with analysts.  BP said in February that production would be “broadly
flat” this year after the  Gulf of Mexico  spill forced the
company to shut down fields for safety reviews and sell assets
to raise cash. It’s targeting total asset sales of $38 billion
by the end of next year after about $23 billion of divestments
so far. About 120,000 barrels of oil equivalent capacity a day
will be sold this year.  The company said today it plans to sell some “non-
strategic” assets in the Gulf of Mexico, including stakes in
the Marlin, Horn Mountain, Holstein, Ram Powell and Diana Hoover
fields. The assets produced about 50,000 barrels of oil a day
last year.  Production Outlook  Production excluding TNK-BP fell 6 percent from a year ago
to 2.45 million barrels of oil equivalent a day. The company
expects output to decline in the second quarter and for costs to
be higher due to seasonal maintenance.  “Results continue to be impacted by the loss of high-
margin barrels from the Gulf of Mexico and by increasing
production costs,”  Oswald Clint , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in London, wrote in a note. “Upstream will get
worse before it gets better.”  Brent crude  averaged $118.45 a barrel in the first quarter,
compared with $105.52 a year earlier. BP estimates its earnings
rise $300 million a year for every $1 gain in Brent crude.  The company plans to dispose of the Texas City and Carson
refineries by the end of this year. Profit in the refining and
marketing division slipped to $2.3 billion from $4.4 billion a
year earlier. The company expects margins to widen in the second
quarter.  Global margins have improved since the end of March. BP’s
refining marker margin stood at $15.04 a barrel in the second
quarter to date, compared with $11.60 in the first quarter,
according to the company’s website. The company’s profits gain
about $650 million a year for every $1 increase in the margin,
according to rules of thumb on BP’s website.  BP has had talks with the  Department of Justice  about a
settlement for pollution claims that can reach as much as $17.6
billion. The company is set to complete payments into the $20
billion  trust fund  for victims this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  