-- BP Spill Trial Shouldn’t Be Delayed by Accord, U.S. Tells Judge
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bp-spill-trial-shouldn-t-be-delayed-by-settlement-u-s-says-1-.html
The U.S. government said the trial
over fault for the 2010  BP Plc (BP/)  Gulf of Mexico  oil spill 
shouldn’t be delayed until after a proposed November hearing on
a settlement of most private-party claims.  BP and some parties suing the company over the spill filed
a proposed settlement agreement April 18 with U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  for preliminary approval. They
asked Barbier to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final
approval of the accord and to postpone any trial on liability
until after that hearing.  BP’s proposed partial resolution of private claims “should
not allow it to impede trial and resolution of the broader
public interests represented by the  United States  and the
states,” Justice Department attorneys said in a court filing
yesterday. The trial on liability for the spill should begin
“no later than summer of 2012,” the U.S. said.  The state of  Alabama  yesterday filed a similar objection to
the proposed delay in the trial. Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange asked Barbier to set a trial date for the liability
phase for July 16. The judge said he would consider BP’s request
for postponing the trial at a closed-door hearing May 3.  Barbier heard arguments for preliminary approval of the
proposed settlement last week. He hasn’t yet issued a decision.
He said at the hearing that he was “leaning” toward approval.  Worst Spill  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. In response, President  Barack Obama  imposed a
moratorium on deep-water drilling.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage, and spill and pollution-related injuries. The
settlement, reached March 2, days before a scheduled trial on
liability for the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover federal government
claims and those of the Gulf Coast states  Louisiana  and Alabama.  Also excluded are claims by financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the drilling
moratorium.  The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cementing services. Those claims remain pending
following the proposed settlement.  U.S. Lawsuits  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners in the well,
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands, Texas-based
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of federal
pollution laws. MOEX has settled the federal claims.  “The timing of these proceedings has yet to be
determined,” Lou Colasuonno, Transocean’s spill-litigation
spokesman, said in a telephone interview. “But one thing is
clear. We are confident in our case whenever we go to trial.”  BP spokesman  Scott Dean  said in an e-mailed statement that
the company has no comment beyond what it said in its own court
filings seeking a delay in the liability phase of the trial
until after the fairness hearing.  “The fact that BP has not requested a complete stay of all
litigation counsels in favor of granting this request,” lawyers
for BP and the Plaintiffs Steering Committee said in an April 18
filing. “Indeed, it is routine for courts to grant a complete
stay of all proceedings until after the fairness hearing --
relief that goes far beyond what BP is seeking here,” they said
in the filing.  Beverly Stafford, a Halliburton spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment.  ‘Delay Recovery’  The proposed delay of the liability trial “will inevitably
delay recovery and restoration for fragile Gulf resources,”
Justice Department lawyers said yesterday. “Under the proposals
of defendants like BP, a matter ready for trial will sit and
wait -- untried -- for close to one year or maybe more.”  The settlement process with private parties “need not
preclude trial of the broader government claims,” they said in
the filing.  If Barbier grants a delay, Alabama wants the new trial date
to be set for Nov. 26, Strange said. The first trial should
include BP’s liability for the spill, even amid settlements with
private plaintiffs, he said.  “BP is the primary defendant,” Strange said. “It would
be virtually impossible to try a liability case without BP. BP’s
fault for the explosion and resulting spill is intertwined with
the fault of their co-defendants.”  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the  Gulf of Mexico  on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  