-- BP Trial Shouldn’t Be Delayed by Settlement, Alabama Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-01T17:20:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/bp-trial-shouldn-t-be-delayed-by-settlement-alabama-says.html
The trial over fault for the 2010  BP
Plc (BP/)   Gulf of Mexico   oil spill  shouldn’t be delayed until after a
proposed November hearing on a settlement of most private-party
claims, the state of Alabama said.  BP and some parties suing the company over the spill filed
a proposed settlement agreement April 18 with U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  in  New Orleans  for preliminary approval. They
asked Barbier to hold a Nov. 8 fairness hearing before final
approval of the accord and to postpone any trial on liability
until after that hearing.  By proposing a delay in the trial, “BP has sketched a
blueprint for avoiding liability with the governments for
years,” Alabama Attorney General Luther Strange said in a court
filing today. “The governments deserve our day in court.”  Strange asked Barbier to set a trial date for the liability
phase for July 16. If Barbier grants a delay, the state wants
the new trial date to be set for Nov. 26, Strange said. The
first trial should include BP’s liability for the spill, despite
any settlements with private plaintiffs, the  Alabama  AG said.  “BP is the primary defendant,” Strange said. “It would
be virtually impossible to try a liability case without BP. BP’s
fault for the explosion and resulting spill is intertwined with
the fault of their co-defendants.”  Eleven Killed  The blowout and  explosion  on the Deepwater Horizon drilling
rig killed 11 workers and caused the worst offshore oil spill in
U.S. history. In response, President  Barack Obama  imposed a
moratorium on deep-water drilling.  BP agreed in March to pay an estimated $7.8 billion to
resolve private plaintiffs’ claims for economic loss, property
damage and spill and pollution-related injuries. The settlement,
reached March 2, days before a scheduled trial on liability for
the 2010 spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and
those of the Gulf Coast states Louisiana and Alabama.  Also excluded are claims by financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the drilling
moratorium.  The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against London-
based BP;  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the Vernier, Switzerland-based owner
and operator of the rig; and Houston-based  Halliburton Co. (HAL) ,
which provided cementing services. Those claims remain pending
following the proposed settlement.  The U.S. sued BP, Transocean and BP’s partners in the well,
 Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 and The Woodlands, Texas-based
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC) , alleging violations of federal
pollution laws. MOEX has settled the federal claims.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 