-- Broadcom’s Sales Forecast Tops Some Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-05-01T22:36:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/broadcom-s-second-quarter-sales-forecast-exceeds-some-estimates.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips that
help mobile devices connect to the Internet, forecast second-
quarter sales that may exceed some analysts’ estimates, lifted
by increasing orders from smartphone makers.  Second-quarter revenue will be $1.9 billion to $2 billion,
the  Irvine , California-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts on average  estimated  sales of $1.92 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom is benefiting from demand for radio chips that let
smartphones and tablets connect over Wi-Fi and Bluetooth
signals. Customer Apple Inc. said last week it sold 35.1 million
iPhones in the period, more than analysts estimated. Broadcom’s
sales this quarter will be helped by demand for Apple’s iPad and
cheaper phones made by other customers such as Nokia Oyj, said
Ruben Roy, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA Inc.  “The iPad assumptions are a little better than people were
thinking,” said New York-based Roy, who recommends buying
Broadcom shares.  Broadcom  climbed  less than 1 percent to $36.71 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 25 percent this year. The
stock slipped 1.4 percent in extended trading following the
report. The company’s sales forecast lagged behind some
analysts’ highest estimates, according to  Doug Freedman , an
analyst at  RBC Capital Markets .  First Quarter  First-quarter net income fell to $88 million, or 15 cents a
share, from $228 million, or 40 cents, a year earlier, the
company said. Sales rose less than 1 percent to $1.83 billion.
Excluding certain costs, profit was 65 cents.  Broadcom was  estimated  by analysts to have first-quarter
profit before certain costs of 55 cents a share on sales of
$1.78 billion.  Under Chief Executive Officer  Scott McGregor , Broadcom is
moving into the market for so-called baseband chips used to
connect phones to 3G cellular networks, an area dominated by
 Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  The two companies are increasingly moving onto
each other’s turf as they try to make chips that combine
communications and processing functions, enabling smaller and
more powerful phones.  “Things are looking rosier for our 3G business,” McGregor
told analysts on a conference call today. While the company
won’t get orders it had expected from Nokia Oyj for those chips
this year, Samsung Electronics Co. and new customers are
boosting demand, he said. He declined to identify the new
customers.  Unlike Qualcomm, which said last month it was struggling to
get all of the parts it needs from manufacturing partners,
Broadcom isn’t yet selling chips made on the latest production
technology, and therefore hasn’t suffered any shortfall of its
own, McGregor said.  Apple accounts for about 13 percent of Broadcom’s sales,
according to a Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis. Samsung is its
second-largest customer, providing about 10 percent of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  