-- California’s Law-and-Order Culture Shows Cracks
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/california-s-law-and-order-culture-shows-cracks.html
California  voters veer hard to the
right on law-and-order issues, as politicians from both major
parties have learned, defying stereotypes of a state of loony
leftists. In recent months, attitudes have shown signs of
changing.  After a video went viral of a campus police officer  pepper-
spraying  a line of peaceful protesters at the  University of
California  at Davis in November, the public reaction was far
from sympathetic to the police. Although the Occupy protesters
did their best to provoke the police and other citizens in
Tuesday’s May Day demonstrations in San Francisco and Oakland,
longer-term trends deserve critical attention, too.  The UC Davis incident came after some highly publicized
cases of police shootings and abuse, and amid general grumbling
over revelations of eye-popping pay and benefit packages for
California’s public-safety workers.  Last month, a panel led by a former state Supreme Court
associate justice, Cruz Reynoso, released  a report  highly
critical of how the police handled the Davis pepper-spray
incident, prompting the campus police chief to resign.  “The  task force  blamed the university administration for
poor leadership and communication, and a ‘dysfunctional’ police
force for disobeying orders and needlessly escalating force,”
the Sacramento Bee said in summarizing the report.  Robust Police Rights  In a sensible world,  wrote Conor Friedersdorf  in the
Atlantic, the police officer who pepper-sprayed the students,
Lieutenant John Pike, would have been placed on administrative
leave and then fired a few weeks later after the university
found he had disobeyed orders.  “But that isn’t how things are going to work in this
case,” Friedersdorf wrote, “for in California, a misbehaving
police officer like Lt. Pike has due process rights so robust
that it’s extraordinarily difficult to discipline or fire one.”
The officer and his boss refused to speak to investigators.  The culprit: a peace officers’ bill of rights, which tilts
the playing field so strongly in the direction of an accused
officer that it’s virtually impossible to fire one. This can
apply even to campus police, who are sworn officers entitled to
these special protections. (Virtually every public security
guard these days is considered a duly sworn officer of the
state, and their unions are vocal about asserting those powers.
Even milk inspectors in California qualify for enhanced public
safety pensions.)  The  Reynoso report  pointed to the California law and called
for reforms to protect the public’s trust in  law enforcement .
Not only does the Public Safety Officers Procedural Bill of
Rights Act shield police accused of wrongdoing, it cloaks all
matters related to police discipline in secrecy, just as a 2006
state Supreme Court decision does. While  Ronald Reagan  is
thought of as the ultimate law-and-order politician -- he was
first elected governor of California, in 1966, on an anti-
student-protest platform -- it was  Jerry Brown , Reagan’s
successor, who signed the rights law. The riots in South Central
Los Angeles 20 years ago this week reinvigorated the law-and-
order fervor.  Brown, in his first two terms as governor, also granted
public employees collective-bargaining rights. His return as
governor in 2011 and the growing pension-reform debate have put
these previously forgotten 1970s-era laws back in the spotlight.  After speaking to a conservative group in  Southern
California  about police-abuse issues, I was approached by a
local official who said he thought the subject was gaining
traction because of public concern about the pension crisis.  Criticism of Pensions  That no doubt is true. News articles have reported on 50-
year-old cops receiving $150,000-a-year pension deals, and on
departments where the majority of officers retired with dubious
disabilities.  Those and other accounts of costly perks and  abuses  have
led voters -- even in conservative bastions such as Orange
County -- to sometimes think of public-safety officials as
scammers rather than heroes. In liberal locales, some Democrats
chafe at their political allegiance to police and fire unions as
cities cut back social services to pay for excessive
compensation packages.  In a  case  that caused outrage in the  San Francisco  Bay
Area, the Alameda Fire Department let a man drown in 60 degrees
Fahrenheit (15 degrees Celsius) water in May 2011. The first
responders could not save him, officials explained, because they
lacked cold-water rescue training. The voters see that many
rules governing public-safety unions aren’t much different from
the nonsensical rules governing other union jobs.  I’ve sensed a dramatic shift since moving to California in
1998, in the thick of a gubernatorial election pitting  Gray Davis  against Republican Dan Lungren, who as California attorney
general advocated “three strikes” and other anti-crime laws.
Republicans had few issues that resonated with voters in
statewide races, so they focused on law and order.  Davis ,
recognizing the Democrats’ vulnerability, vowed never to be
outflanked by the right on crime.  As the  New York Times reported : “He would give judges
discretion to sentence 14-year-olds to death; he would let them
consider supporting non-unanimous jury verdicts. Indeed, Mr.
Davis said in a televised debate, on issues of law and order, he
considered  Singapore  -- a country that executes drug offenders -
- ’a good starting point.’”  During a state Senate hearing in 2007 on a bill that would
have overturned provisions of the state  Supreme Court  decision
keeping police disciplinary matters confidential ( Copley Press
Inc. v. Superior Court  of San Diego County), the law-enforcement
unions showed up in force, and legislators from both parties
killed the bill. Democrats even removed the civil-libertarian
committee chairman who favored the changes.  Union Protections  These days, it’s a bit different. One former prosecutor
complained that potential jurors sound more like civil
libertarians. And it’s hard to imagine a prominent politician
calling for the execution of drug offenders in 2012. An
initiative that would do away with the death penalty entirely
has even qualified for November’s ballot.  In many cases of officer-involved shootings, the public
rarely learns the details of what transpired beyond the official
versions released by police agencies because of the peace
officers’ bill of rights and the  Copley  ruling. Even in
egregious cases of wrongdoing -- for example, that of an Anaheim
officer accused of  sexually abusing  illegal immigrants -- union
protections can drag out the proceedings.  Many citizens will shrug at the UC Davis report because of
an understandable dislike for the Occupy protesters, who didn’t
help their image on Tuesday. But questionable officer-involved
shootings and accusations of serious abuse by police and
deputies deserve far more public scrutiny than they are getting.
We don’t want to return to the bad old days, but in California,
at least, it’s time to start pushing the pendulum back in the
other direction.  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in  Sacramento , California. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the upside of  Greek
dysfunction  and the  U.S. Senate ’s attempt to  reform the Postal
Service ; William Pesek on  China’s slowing growth ;  Peter Orszag 
on  flawed economic forecasting ; and Clive Crook on the  dogma of
inequality .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in Sacramento, California, at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 