-- Canada Dollar Climbs After U.S. ISM Data Boosts Demand
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-05-01T21:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/canada-dollar-fluctuates-on-lower-rate-rise-odds-after-rba-move.html
Canada ’s dollar climbed against a
majority of its most-traded counterparts after manufacturing
data in the U.S., the nation’s biggest trading partner, beat
median economists’ forecasts.  The Canadian currency rose last month, reaching a seven-
month high, after policy makers indicated borrowing costs may
rise amid stronger inflation and economic growth. It gained
against  Australia ’s dollar by the most this year after the South
Pacific nation’s central bank cut interest rates by more than
projected.  “Positive developments for the  U.S. economy  are going to
help the Canadian dollar,” said  Greg Anderson , the North
American head of G-10 currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in  New
York , in a telephone interview. “The Canadian dollar is
attractive and we can move below 98 cents in dollar-Canada and
somewhat decisively if the  Bank of Canada  continues to make
hawkish noises.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.2 percent
to 98.54 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It reached
98 cents on April 27, the strongest since September. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0148.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent, while
crude oil futures advanced 1.1 percent to $105.98 in New York.  Bonds Fall  Government  bonds  fell, pushing benchmark 10-year yields up
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.05 percent. The
price of the 3.25 percent bonds due in June 2021 lost 10 cents
to C$109.96.  The loonie rose as much as 1.2 percent, the most this year,
to C$1.0172 against the Australian dollar, after the RBA cut
 interest rates  by 50 basis points, or 0.5 percentage point, to
3.75 percent. The median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 25-basis point cut.  “I like selling the Australian dollar here versus the
Canadian dollar,” said Kit Juckes, head of foreign-exchange
research in  London  at Societe Generale SA, in an e-mail. The
Australian dollar versus the yen “looks ugly” if U.S. stocks
decline, he said.  The RBA move prompted traders to trim bets on the pace of
rate increases by the Bank of Canada. Implied odds of an
increase at the Bank of Canada’s Sept. 5 policy meeting fell to
53 percent today, representing about 17 basis points of
tightening, according to overnight index swaps. At the end of
last week, odds had climbed to 75 percent, with more than a full
quarter-percentage point of increases priced in.  Carney View  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said after a speech in
Toronto today that higher interest rates “may become
appropriate.” He also said his country “has a household debt
problem.”  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said today fiscal
fundamentals are supporting the country’s dollar. Speaking to
reporters after a speech to a manufacturing convention in
Kitchener, Ontario, Flaherty said factories have shown a
positive attitude to an appreciating currency, and that nobody
is expecting the dollar to weaken sharply.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in April at the
fastest pace in 10 months. The  Institute for Supply Management ’s
factory index climbed to 54.8 last month, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 53.4 in
March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today.
Readings greater than 50 signal growth. The median forecast in
the Bloomberg survey called for a drop to 53.  Economic Data  Canada’s dollar fell the most in one month against its U.S.
counterpart yesterday after a report showed the nation’s gross
domestic product unexpectedly shrank in February.  “Despite yesterday’s retracement following the weak
February GDP report, the 98.76 cents level has barred the way of
further rallies” of the  U.S. dollar  against the loonie,  George Davis , chief technical analyst for fixed-income and currency
strategy at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital Markets unit,
wrote in a report to clients. “This development confirms that
bearish sentiment still remains prevalent” for the greenback,
with the next “downside support targets” to watch at 97.81
cents and 97.28 cents, he wrote.  The loonie is up 0.8 percent in the past month for the
third-best performance among 10 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The yen has gained 3
percent, while the pound has added 1.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  