-- Canada’s Carney Says Disasters Occur When Markets Dominate
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-05-01T20:13:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/canada-s-carney-says-disasters-can-occur-when-markets-dominate.html
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney 
said governments need to play a bigger role in reining in
markets to bolster confidence in the global financial system.  Carney said policy makers were “captured” in the run-up
to the global financial crisis by a belief that financial
markets would correct themselves. He made the comments in his
speech accepting the “2012 Canadian of the Year” award from
the Canadian Club of Toronto.  While saying that “stagnation occurs when governments
dominate markets,” Carney added “it’s also true, as we’ve just
learned, that sooner or later disasters come if markets
dominate, absolutely dominate governments.”  “We did see in the run-up to this crisis too many
governments captured by the myth that finance is self-regulating
and can correct itself spontaneously,” said Carney, who is also
chairman of the Financial Stability Board, the group charged by
the Group of 20 countries to coordinate global financial reform.  The financial crisis stemmed in part from the inconsistency
between the “global span” of markets and the “national span”
of governments, necessitating the development of a global
system, the 47-year-old central banker said.  “There is a need, and this reform program is part of the
process, to rebalance the relationship between governments and
markets,” he said.  Carney has clashed with banking executives over new rules
requiring them to hold more capital, and has said global
regulators must overcome resistance to new rules that may reduce
trading profits by financial institutions.  ‘Curiously Blind’  Some people in the financial industry have been “curiously
blind” to the costs of the crisis that are being borne by those
who benefited least from the previous expansion, Carney said,
citing high jobless rates in many countries.  “In every other aspect of human endeavor, men and women
strive to learn and improve,” Carney said. “Financial services
should be no different.”  “We need to deal with the unfairness of the system that
privatizes gains and socializes losses,” Carney said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  