-- Capitals Defeat Rangers to Even NHL Playoff, Kings Take 2-0 Lead
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-01T04:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/capitals-defeat-rangers-3-2-to-tie-nhl-playoff-series-at-1-1.html
Alex Ovechkin’s third-period goal
lifted the Washington Capitals to a 3-2 road victory against the
 New York  Rangers that tied their National Hockey League second-
round playoff series at one game each.  Ovechkin scored on a power play with seven minutes, 27
seconds remaining, ripping a 57-foot wristshot past Rangers
goaltender  Henrik Lundqvist  four seconds after New York’s Brad Richards was sent off for a holding penalty. Ovechkin’s third
goal of the postseason came after the Rangers erased a 2-0
deficit at Madison Square Garden in New York.  The Capitals will host the next two games in the best-of-
seven series, including Game 3 tomorrow.  “All year we responded after losses, and this is no
different,” the Rangers’  Ryan Callahan  said. “It’s a tough
place to play in Washington. They usually come out strong there.
We’re going to have to be ready.”  The  Los Angeles Kings , the eighth seed in the Western
Conference, improved to 5-0 on the road this postseason with a
5-2 win against the  St. Louis Blues  last night.  Anze Kopitar scored twice as the Kings, who upset the top-
seeded Vancouver Canucks in the opening round of the playoffs,
jumped out to a 4-0 first-period lead at Scottrade Center in St.
Louis.  “We wanted to make sure we had a great start and we
established our game early,” Kings defenseman Rob Scuderi said.
“We couldn’t have asked for a better start.”  The Capitals, the seventh seed in the Eastern Conference,
took a 2-0 lead against the top-seeded Rangers on first-period
goals by  Mike Knuble  and  Jason Chimera .  Richards scored for the Rangers with 43 seconds left in the
opening period and Callahan added a power-play tally with 13:02
remaining to tie the score 2-2. Less than six minutes later, the
Capitals regained the lead for good.  “That’s the playoffs,” Rangers defenseman Marc Staal told
reporters. “A couple mistakes like that will hurt you, and then
we were unable to get the lead. We battled hard to tie it up,
but just couldn’t get that lead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  