-- Chesapeake CEO McClendon to Lose Chairman Post
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-05-01T20:21:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/chesapeake-energy-to-strip-mcclendon-of-chairman-role.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  will name an
independent chairman to replace Aubrey McClendon and halt an
incentive program that allowed the chief executive officer to
amass personal stakes in thousands of company-operated wells.  McClendon agreed to a board request to terminate the so-
called Founder Well Participation Program in June 2014, 18
months early, without additional compensation, according to a
release today. McClendon will retain the CEO position and won’t
relinquish any of the well stakes he acquired during the past 23
years, Michael Kehs, a Chesapeake spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  McClendon, the only chairman the company has had since he
co-founded it in 1989, was criticized by investors and analysts
after news reports last month detailed his use of interests in
company wells to obtain hundreds of millions of dollars in
personal loans. Oklahoma-city based Chesapeake rose 6.3 percent
to $19.60 at the close in  New York , after earlier jumping 12
percent for the biggest intraday gain since December 2008.  “This board has been slow to address shareholder concerns
and it is unfortunate that it took a crisis of this magnitude
and substantial loss of  shareholder value  to spur them to
action,” New York State Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli , who
oversees 3.1 million Chesapeake shares held by the $140 billion
New York State Common Retirement Fund, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Much remains to be done to restore investor
confidence in this company and we hope this is one of several
steps Chesapeake’s board will take to achieve that goal.”  ‘Last Hurrah’  Southeastern Asset Management Inc., Chesapeake’s biggest
shareholder with a 17 percent stake as of Dec. 31, pushed for
the separation of the chairman and CEO roles.  “We are pleased that the board listened to our input and
believe it has made the right decision by ending the FWPP early
and seeking an independent chairman,” O. Mason Hawkins,
chairman and CEO of  Memphis , Tennessee-based Southeastern, said
in Chesapeake’s statement.  Allowing the well-investment program to continue through
the middle of 2014 will enable McClendon to buy stakes in the
Utica Shale in  Ohio , an oil-soaked geologic formation, and other
regions that Chesapeake recently began exploring, said  Mark Hanson , an analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in Chicago.  Losses Mount  McClendon, 52, had $846 million in loans outstanding as of
Dec. 31 to participate in the program which allowed him to
purchase up to 2.5 percent of almost every well the company
drilled. Under the terms of that program, he had to fund
drilling and leasing costs proportionate to his stake in each
well.  As Chesapeake has grown over the past two decades,
McClendon’s need for cash to cover his well costs expanded.
McClendon’s personal cash crunch was exacerbated by the plunge
in natural-gas prices that delayed the point when wells drilled
in recent years began to turn a profit, Hanson said.  McClendon had $573 million in losses on his well stakes
during the past three calendar years as lease and drilling
expenses overwhelmed gas and oil revenue, the company said in a
regulatory filing yesterday. During the first quarter, he piled
on another $88 million in losses.  “If they terminated the program right now, he probably
wouldn’t be able to cover his outstanding loans,” Hanson said
today in a telephone interview. “This is one last hurrah so he
can be made whole before they end the program.”  IRS Review  The  Internal Revenue Service  has been reviewing the well-
investment program since March 2010 as part of ongoing audits of
the company’s 2008 and 2009 tax returns, Kehs said today in an
e-mailed statement. The company is scheduled to announce first-
quarter results today.  “It’s positive that the board is creating some
independence between the CEO and the chairmanship,”  Scott Hanold , an analyst at RBC Capital Markets LLC in  Minneapolis ,
said today in a telephone interview. “Aubrey McClendon has been
the face of Chesapeake and is definitely the one who built the
asset base they have, so having him continue to be part of the
company is strategically the right decision.”  Chairman Search  The nominating and corporate governance committee on
Chesapeake’s board is considering chairman candidates with “no
previous substantive relationship” with the company, according
to the statement. McClendon will remain chairman until a
replacement is named.  “I’d be looking for somebody who understands the industry
with no business ties, no personal ties, no professional ties
whatsoever to Aubrey or Chesapeake,”  Philip Weiss , a New York-
based analyst for Argus Research, who has called for McClendon
and the entire board to be fired, said today in an interview.  “It would also be somebody with a schedule that would
allow him or her to make this an important part of their
everyday life,” said Weiss, who owns no shares and is one of
the four analysts who rate Chesapeake a sell out of 36 that
follow the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  