-- China to Extend U.S. Soy Buying on Brazil Losses, Oil World Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-05-01T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/china-to-extend-u-s-soy-buying-on-brazil-losses-oil-world-says.html
China , the world’s biggest soybean
consumer, will “increasingly shift” purchases of the oilseed
to the U.S. in coming months after South American supplies
tightened, Oil World said.  The U.S. is seen exporting “at least” 2.3 million metric
tons of soybeans to China from June to August, compared with
600,000 tons a year earlier, the Hamburg-based researcher said
today in a report. Shipments are seen gaining “momentum” in
the following six months, reaching a new record for the
September-to-February period, Oil World said.  Brazil, the world’s biggest soybean shipper, sent record
amounts to China from January to April, leaving the South
American country’s stockpiles down about 13 million tons from a
year earlier at the end of last month. Soybean futures have
surged 24 percent this year on the Chicago Board of Trade after
drought hurt crops in  Brazil  and  Argentina .  “Additional large Chinese purchases would require even
more rationing to be done in Brazil for the rest of this year,”
Oil World said. “We expect that insufficient South American
supplies will result in a contra-seasonal increase in U.S.
soybean exports to China.”  China’s soybean imports for the 2011-12 marketing year are
seen totaling 56.5 million tons, almost 1 million tons more than
expected a month earlier, Oil World said. Purchases are seen
climbing to at least 60 million tons in the following season and
are seen potentially even higher if the country’s production
falls below the expected 12.5 million tons, a 20-year low, Oil
World said.  U.S. soybean exports are seen totaling 36 million tons this
season, cutting stockpiles on Aug. 31 to 5.8 million tons, Oil
World said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  