-- China Manufacturing Growth Accelerates, PMI Shows
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-05-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/china-manufacturing-growth-accelerates-pmi-shows.html
China ’s manufacturing expanded at the
fastest pace in a year, reducing pressure on policy makers to
open the taps on credit in the world’s second-largest economy.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index rose to 53.3 in April from
53.1 in March, China’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation said in a statement yesterday. That’s the fifth
straight reading above the 50 level dividing expansion from
contraction and compares with the 53.6 median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  The data signal China may be strengthening from the slowest
 pace  of growth in almost three years, reached last quarter. At
issue for Premier  Wen Jiabao  is whether to extend a two-month
pause in lowering banks’ required reserve ratios, as he seeks to
rein in property and consumer prices without sending the economy
into a so-called hard landing.  “The need for aggressive policy easing is limited given
the government’s desire to slow growth and the upside inflation
risks,” said Chang Jian, a Hong Kong-based economist with
 Barclays Capital . “Fine-tuning measures such as easing credit,
support for first-home buyers and expansionary fiscal policy to
support infrastructure will gradually feed through, so the
slowdown in growth will bottom out this quarter.”  Markets in China and  Hong Kong  were closed yesterday for a
public holiday.  A separate PMI compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics showed last week that manufacturing may have
contracted for a sixth month in April, according to preliminary
results. The final reading, which has a different sample and
methodology, is due today.  Property Crackdown  The official index compiled by the logistics federation
and statistics bureau is based on responses from managers at
more than 820 companies in 28 industries, while HSBC’s covers
more than 420 companies and is weighted toward smaller
businesses.  The federation’s “large and medium-sized companies” sub-
index was 53.7 for April while its “small companies” gauge was
49.1, the same as HSBC’s preliminary reading.  China’s gross domestic product  expanded  8.1 percent in the
first three months of 2012 from a year earlier, the fifth
straight quarterly deceleration, as Wen cracked down on property
speculation and exports were hurt by  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Wen has said the government will preemptively adjust and
fine-tune policy in a “timely and appropriate” manner. China
has reduced banks’ reserve requirements twice since November to
boost liquidity and spur loan growth.  Slower Orders  At the same time, authorities have refrained from cutting
 interest rates  amid inflation concerns, and have paused since
mid-February in lowering the reserve ratio.  A measure of output in April’s official PMI rose to 57.2
from 55.2 the previous month. A gauge of new orders increased at
a slower pace while export orders gained at a faster rate, the
data showed.  The index has reached an “above historical average” and
the export orders gauge has rebounded for four months in a row,
 Yu Song , a Beijing-based economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
said, suggesting a “modest increase” in industrial output
growth on a year-on-year basis.  “We are on the upturn of a mini-cycle,” said Lu Ting, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Bank of America Corp., who
estimates second-quarter economic growth could accelerate to 8.5
percent from a year earlier.  In contrast, Ding Shuang, a Hong Kong-based economist at
Citigroup Inc., said the decline in new orders indicates
domestic demand is weakening relative to external demand and
that expansion may slow to 7.9 percent this quarter.  Second-Half Rebound  “Continued policy support, including expansionary fiscal
policy, monetary accommodation including cuts in the reserve
ratio, and selected easing of property measures, is needed to
generate a rebound in the second half,” Ding said.  Lack of seasonal adjustment may have accounted for the rise
in April’s official PMI, according to economists at  Societe
Generale  SA and Mirae Asset Securities (HK) Ltd.  “The peak reading in a year usually occurs in April so the
actual strength of China’s manufacturing sector was probably not
as resilient as indicated,” said Yao Wei, a Hong Kong-based
economist with Societe Generale, who accurately forecast the
number.  Joy Yang at Mirae Asset in Hong Kong described the increase
as “quite shallow” and said more policy easing should be
expected around the middle of the year.  “There’s a big chance that the second quarter is going to
be weaker than the first quarter,” she said in an interview
with Bloomberg Television in Hong Kong yesterday, referring to
the outlook for economic growth. “We see that the external
environment has sort of stabilized but we don’t see drivers in
growth yet.”  Switzerland ’s ABB Ltd., the world’s largest supplier of
power grids, said on April 25 that it sees no immediate recovery
in Chinese demand in construction and transportation after
first-quarter Asian orders declined.  --Zheng Lifei,  Chua Baizhen . With assistance from Ailing Tan in
 Singapore , Rishaad Salamat in Hong Kong, Penny Peng and Regina Tan in Beijing. Editors: Nerys Avery, James Mayger  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at   lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  