-- Collapsing U.S. Postal Service Needs Freedom to Cut Costs
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/collapsing-u-s-postal-service-needs-freedom-to-cut-costs.html
Like a Pony Express rider wobbling
toward Fort Laramie with an arrow in his hat, the Senate bill
passed last week to reform the U.S.  Postal Service  is far from
its goal and facing attack from all sides.  The ambush -- led by  House Republicans , postal-worker
unions and the service itself -- seems overly aggressive: The
bill is Congress’s first earnest attempt to stop the impending
meltdown of the Postal Service, which loses $25 million a day
and says it might have to close thousands of post offices and
hundreds of distribution centers in the next few months. The
legislation also gets several issues right. First, it would
revise payment schedules to two federal-worker retirement funds,
allowing the service to offer retirement incentives and trim the
workforce by 100,000 jobs.  Encouragingly, the bill would also require arbitrators in
future labor negotiations to take the USPS’s overall fiscal
condition into consideration. It would enhance revenue slightly
by allowing the USPS to raise some postal rates, ship wine and
beer, and sell things like fishing licenses.  The bill has some weaknesses, especially when it comes to
tying the USPS’s hands in cost-cutting. It would forbid the
elimination of Saturday delivery for two years, which is two
years too long to wait. It would make it tough for the service
to close many of the 461 mail-processing plants that are no
longer necessary given that first-class mail volume has dropped
by nearly 30 percent in a decade. It would move toward giving
communities de facto veto power over the closing of local post
offices. Clearly, mass-mailers and senators with home-state
interests had too much sway.  Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe says that the bill gets
in the way of his five-year plan to achieve $20 billion in
savings by 2015, and that without changes he will “be back
before the Congress within a few years requesting additional
legislative reform.” And by that, he means with hat in hand.  The leading House proposal builds on the Senate approach
while being looser and stricter in the appropriate places. It
would speed up the timeline for eliminating Saturday delivery
and closing superfluous processing plants, bar no-layoff clauses
in future contracts, and make needed reforms in health-care
costs. It also calls for a commission to shutter branches
similar to the one the military uses to close its bases.  Even in the age of e-mail, postal delivery is a necessary
part of the  U.S. economy  and social fabric. But the Postal
Service can’t continue to hemorrhage money, and taxpayers
shouldn’t have to bail it out. Give the Senate credit for
setting things in motion, but it’s going to take tougher
measures in the House to get the USPS on the route to long-term
solvency.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the upside of  Greek
dysfunction ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  Romney campaign’s ad
strategy ; William Pesek on  China ’s slowing growth;  Peter Orszag 
on  flawed economic forecasting ; Clive Crook on the  dogma of
inequality .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 