-- Construction Spending in U.S. Rose Less Than Forecast in March
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-05-01T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/construction-spending-in-u-s-rose-less-than-forecast-in-march.html
Construction  spending  in the U.S. grew
less than forecast in March as state and local government
agencies continued to pull back.  The 0.1 percent increase followed a 1.4 percent decline in
February that was larger than previously estimated, the Commerce
Department reported today in  Washington . The  median estimate  of
47 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 0.5 percent
increase.  Cash-strapped state and local governments will probably
continue to rein in spending on construction projects, preventing
the industry from making a broad-based recovery. At the same
time, the lowest  rental vacancies  in a decade will probably
continue to spur demand for apartments, leading to gains in
residential real estate.  “There’s been some clearer signs that apartment
construction has started to pick up,”  Ryan Wang , an economist at
HSBC Securities USA Inc., said before today’s report.  Estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from a decline of
0.8 percent to a 1 percent gain.  Construction spending increased 6.7 percent in the 12 months
ended in March, before adjusting for seasonal variations.  Private construction spending in March rose 0.7 percent from
the prior month, the best performance so far this year.  Private residential outlays were up 0.7 in March, the most
since November, the report showed. Private non-residential
projects also increased 0.7 percent.  Home Construction  Construction of single-family houses paced the advance in
private residential construction last month as multifamily
building cooled. Nonetheless, apartment building was up 24
percent from March 2011, outpacing the 8.4 percent gain in
houses.  Spending on public construction dropped 1.1 percent from the
prior month, the fourth consecutive decrease. State and local
construction shrank 1.6 percent, bringing it to the lowest level
since November 2006. Federal agencies boosted construction
spending by 3.8 percent.  Gains in residential real estate, which includes apartment
buildings, have started to help the world’s largest economy grow.
Housing contributed 0.4 percentage point to gross domestic
product in the first three months of the year after adding 0.25
point in the fourth quarter of 2011, according to figures from
the Commerce Department. It was its biggest back-to-back
contribution since mid 2005.  A more stable market may trigger improvement elsewhere.
Every housing start creates three jobs, Mike Thaman, chief
executive officer of  Owens Corning Inc. (OC) , said in an April 25
phone interview.  “The other thing about housing is it’s inherently domestic.
It’s going to help local economies,” Thaman said.  The economy grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate from January
through March, helped by the biggest gain in  consumer spending  in
more than a year, a Commerce Department report showed last week.
A decline in commercial construction was among areas limiting the
advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  