-- Courtney Love, Hirst $4 Million Tank Star in Frieze Week
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/courtney-love-hirst-4-million-tank-star-in-frieze-week.html
London ’s hip contemporary art fair
 Frieze  is making its New York debut on Randall’s Island this
week.  Sponsored by Deutsche Bank, it features 182 galleries from
30 countries, including international heavyweights  White Cube ,
 David Zwirner  and Hauser & Wirth. Frieze, which started in 2003
and has grown into  Europe ’s biggest contemporary-art fair, opens
to VIPs at 11 a.m. on May 3 and runs through May 7.  White Cube offers a 1993 fish cabinet by  Damien Hirst  with
an asking price of $4 million, and a 1987 cement sculpture by
 Antony Gormley  for $750,000.  David Zwirner devotes his booth to Minimalism, with pieces
ranging from $50,000 Fred Sandback drawings to a $1 million Dan Flavin light sculpture.  Paul McCarthy ’s blue “White Snow Dwarf, Sleepy #1
(Midget)” will stand guard at the Hauser & Wirth booth. It’s
priced at $950,000.  Catch a ferry to see the waterfront sculpture park,
including pieces by Brazilian artist Ernesto Neto and German
artist Katja Strunz. Galleries occupy a 250,000-square-foot tent
designed by Brooklyn architects SO-IL.  There’s also a projects section curated by Cecilia Alemani
that includes Bronx-based sculptor John Ahearn, who reconstructs
his 1979 exhibition “South Bronx Hall of Fame,” with painted,
plaster casts of local residents, including kids, the homeless
and drug addicts.  Refuel at one of the trendy eateries: Frankies Spuntino,
Sant Ambroeus, Fat Radish, Roberta’s, the Standard Biergarten
and Intelligentsia Coffee.  NADA  Coinciding with Frieze, the New Art Dealers Alliance will
present its first  New York  fair.  Running May 4-7 at the former Dia building in Chelsea, the
event will feature 66 exhibitors, mostly based in the U.S. and
Europe.  Bushwick-based artist-run exhibition space  Regina Rex  has a
group show featuring emerging and mid-career artists John
Almanza, James Clark, Dave Hardy and Amy Yoes, with prices
ranging from $1,000 to $8,000.  Eleven Rivington gallery, which just added a second space
on the Lower East Side, has paintings by Jeronimo Elespe priced
between $5,000 and $15,000 and carved wood panels by Michael
DeLucia ranging from $10,000 to $30,000.  While the organizers seek to attract collectors with deep
pockets, they’re also looking toward the next generation with
tours for children age 5 and older.  Galleries  New York galleries usually stage their best shows to
coincide with the big auctions taking place May 1-11.  Don’t miss the fourth major Picasso exhibition at Gagosian,
focusing on the Spaniard’s muse Francoise Gilot and their life
together in Paris and Vallauris between 1943 and 1953. The show
opens May 2.  Marianne Boesky Gallery and the Pace Gallery are hosting a
joint exhibition of the reclusive Italian artist Pier Paolo
Calzolari, who uses water, wax, moss, frost and tobacco in his
work.  Metro Pictures presents new photographs by  Cindy Sherman ,
whose retrospective is currently on view at the Museum of  Modern
Art . In this series, she dons vintage Chanel and poses against
painted landscapes.  On May 3  Fred Torres  Collaborations will open the first
show of 45 drawings by rocker Courtney Love, “And She’s Not
Even Pretty.” Look for doll-like figures, poetic lines and lots
of drama.  Barbara Gladstone is devoting both of her Chelsea spaces to
new sculpture of  Anish Kapoor . The Indian-born British artist’s
first New York exhibition in four years opens May 4.  Young painter Dana Schutz will have her first exhibition at
Friedrich Petzel Gallery since joining it last year. “Piano in
the Rain” will open May 2 and star a cast of characters forced
to overcome dysfunctional situations.  Today’s Muse highlights include best  restaurants  and a
 music  preview.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 