-- Crazy Bride Loves Glum Dutchman, David Hare Returns
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/crazy-bride-loves-glum-dutchman-david-hare-returns-u-k-stage.html
The events in English National Opera’s
“The Flying Dutchman” sometimes appear to be a product of the
heroine’s imagination. Often they aren’t. Often it’s hard to
care.  At the beginning of Jonathan Kent’s contemporary staging of
Wagner’s opera in  London , the heroine Senta (Aoife Checkland)
wears pink pajamas and is about nine years old. The action
starts around Senta’s bed, as if she’s dreaming it.  Her father Daland (Clive Bayley) is the captain of a rusty
tanker. Suddenly another ship rams a hole in the side. Most
sailors would leap into a lifeboat. Daland genially shoots the
breeze with the captain of the other ship, a Dutchman.  Although this mysterious Dutchman has Victorian sideburns
and sings gloomily about redemption through love, Daland offers
him Senta in marriage. Odd, that, given her age.  The bride-to-be listens adoringly to the Dutchman’s gnomic
utterances. Maybe she studies Schopenhauer at kindergarten. Or
maybe she’s just a device for yet another weak production with a
concept which doesn’t add up to a hill of beans.  Then we see the adult Senta (soprano Orla Boylan) who works
in a factory making ships in bottles. Her father brings her the
mysterious Dutchman ( James Creswell ) and they fall in love.  Madness Question  Later when Senta is singing with the Dutchman, her former
boyfriend Erik (Stuart Skelton) gets angry: He’s not able to see
whom she’s singing with. It’s funny how Daland could see him
earlier, and now Erik can’t. Is Senta mad, or isn’t she?  It’s an important point. Because if everything is a product
of Senta’s loopy brainbox, why should we care about her
imaginary Dutchman and his lovely sideburns? If it’s all real,
why should we try to work out why Erik can’t see him?  The emotional stakes are so low, they’re almost negligible.
That’s not what Wagner had in mind for his tale of love, longing
and sacrifice.  The ending, in which Senta kills herself by jabbing a
broken bottle into her stomach -- an inefficient method even by
operatic standards -- produces more titters than tears.  There’s compensation in the singing of James Creswell (The
Dutchman), whose voice cuts through the orchestra. Clive Bayley
(Daland) and Stuart Skelton (Erik) are both superb.  Orla Boylan has the necessary size of voice for the role of
Senta without always the warmth to make it appealing.  Edward Gardner  conducts his first Wagner opera with exciting crashes
and not much subtlety. This “Flying Dutchman” is in a nosedive
from the beginning. Rating: **.  Hare, Rattigan  David Hare’s 29th play “South Downs” is playing as a
double bill with Terence Rattigan’s 1948 work “The Browning
Version” at the Harold Pinter Theatre, London.  Hare was commissioned by the Rattigan estate to provide a
companion piece to the latter’s one-act masterpiece.  “The Browning Version” tells the story of Andrew Crocker-
Harris (Nicholas Farrell), a failed classics master at a
prestigious boys’ school. His retirement looks gloomy, the boys
ridicule him, and his wife is having an affair. When one of the
boys presents him with a farewell copy of Robert Browning’s
translation of the “Agamemnon,” his heart breaks.  It’s solidly acted and directed with icy precision by Angus
Jackson. Rating: ***.  Hare’s piece is also set in an exclusive school, in 1962.
His hero John Blakemore (a remarkable performance from Alex
Lawther) is an over-articulate outsider. When a glamorous
actress (Anna Chancellor) invites him for tea, she tries to help
him gain a wider perspective on his situation.  There’s plenty of atmosphere and not much plot. Next to
Rattigan’s structured piece, it feels like a pleasant watercolor
hanging beside a dramatic oil painting. Rating: **.  “The Flying Dutchman” is in repertory at English National
Opera until May 23.  http://www.eno.org  or +44-20-7845-9300  “South Downs” and “The Browning Version” are at the
Harold Pinter Theatre.  http://www.atgtickets.com/london  or
+44-844-871-7615  Today’s Muse highlights include: Manuela Hoelterhoff on
architecture, James Pressley on “What Money Can’t Buy,”  art
auctions ,  Greg Evans  on film and  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
lifestyle section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this review:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 