-- Dallas Fed Urges Removal of CEOs of Bailed-Out Banks
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-05-01T13:53:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dallas-fed-urges-removal-of-ceos-of-bailed-out-banks.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas 
said taxpayer aid to failing banks should come only after the
voiding of all employment and bonus contracts and the removal of
chief executive officers and boards of directors.  “A set of harsh, non-negotiable consequences” for
requesting  U.S. Treasury  assistance might also include
“clawbacks” to gain cash and stock bonuses paid the top
management team during the prior two years, the Dallas Fed said
today in a slide  presentation  on its website.  The proposal reflects Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher ’s
view that large U.S. banks need to be split apart because they
operate with an implied government safety net that puts their
risks of failure on taxpayers. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
at an April 25 news conference in  Washington  that policy makers
were “making some progress” in averting bailouts by
“substantially” increasing supervision and requiring higher
levels of capital.  The federal safety net should be limited to federally
insured bank deposits and loans made to banks that are fully
collateralized, the Dallas Fed said. Creditors of financial
companies should be “put on notice that there is no federal
safety net covering their transactions,” the district bank
said.  Other regional Fed banks have said that the Dodd-Frank act,
passed in part to end bailouts, hasn’t ended bank rescues.
Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  in March called for
Congress to eliminate the Fed’s authority to lend to
institutions other than banks, strengthen “living wills” that
outline how financial companies would be unwound and change U.S.
bankruptcy law so it would work for the financial sector.  The “institutions that amplified and prolonged the recent
financial crisis remain a hindrance to full economic recovery
and to the very ideal of American capitalism,” Fisher said in
an essay in the Dallas Fed’s 2011 annual report posted online.  Fisher, 63, has been president of the Dallas Fed since
2005. His district includes  Texas , northern Louisiana and
southern  New Mexico .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  