-- Dewey & Leboeuf Aims to Avoid Bankruptcy, Bienenstock Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-01T14:27:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dewey-leboeuf-aims-to-avoid-bankruptcy-bienenstock-says-1-.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP intends to stave off
bankruptcy by collecting bills to pay lenders and transferring
employees and property to other firms, a member of the firm’s
chairman’s office said.  The New York  law firm , which has lost more than 80 lawyers
in recent weeks, is near an agreement with banks about extending
its line of credit for a couple of weeks, a person familiar with
the talks said. Lenders are being co-operative and the deadline
isn’t a problem, said  Martin Bienenstock , one of four members of
Dewey’s chairman’s office after the ouster of Steven Davis, 
formerly sole chairman. The formal deadline was yesterday.  “Bankruptcy is always a last resort and is not in current
plans,” he said in an e-mail today. “If real property and
equipment leases are assumed by other firms or renegotiated, and
the lenders realize on their accounts receivable and inventory,
there may be no need for judicial intervention.”  Dewey is currently talking with “many merger partners,”
Bienenstock said.  Dewey has drawn about $75 million of a $100 million  credit
line  from banks, said a person familiar with the firm’s
finances. The firm said in an internal memorandum on April 29
that  New York  prosecutors were probing possible wrongdoing at
the firm. The memo said that Steven Davis, formerly sole
chairman, was ousted from a five-person chairman’s office and
the executive committee.  Criminal Lawyer  Davis hired criminal defense attorney Barry Bohrer, a
partner at Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer,
as he faces allegations of misconduct.  “Every action of Mr. Davis as chair of the firm was taken
in good faith and in the best interests of the firm,” Bohrer
said in an e-mail confirming his retention. “He is confident
that fair-minded professionals will conclude that he engaged in
no misconduct.”  The turmoil at Dewey has upended the firm’s plans to find a
merger partner and sent prices of its bonds reeling. The
privately placed debt, issued in 2010 to refinance older bank
loans and once valued at 100 cents on the dollar, were seen to
trade April 27 in the 60s, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT
Capital Group LLC.  Accounts Valuation  “If the firm reorganizes, the loan and the notes could be
money good, but if it liquidates, it will come down to the
valuation of accounts receivable,” he said, referring to
Dewey’s bills to clients for legal services. CRT, which trades
distressed debt, didn’t handle the sale of Dewey bonds by an
investor last week, he said.  No single firm currently appears willing to buy all of what
is left of Dewey, according to a person familiar with the
situation. Dewey now is talking with several firms that might
take parts of its specialized practice groups, as part of a
bankruptcy plan devised with lenders’ consent, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs LLP, based in  Washington , is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. Under Dewey’s plan,
different firms might pay to acquire receivables generated by
lawyers they took on, he said. The law firm does have something
to sell -- groups of strong practices, he said.  Dewey’s most profitable practices include bankruptcy,
corporate law, litigation and public policy, the firm has said.  Pick Up Pieces  The plan remains uncertain because firms considering taking
some of Dewey’s lawyers might do better to pick up the pieces
after a bankruptcy filing, the person said.  Patton Boggs wouldn’t say if it will take on some of
Dewey’s lawyers.  “From time to time we have conversations with other firms
in connection with our interest in making strategic acquisitions
to strengthen our practice,” said  Patton Boggs  Managing Partner
Edward Newberry. “We have only the highest regard for the
lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf. They have a legacy of being among
the very best in the areas in which they practice.”  Dewey management sent another memo to all the firm’s
partners yesterday informing them they are free to explore other
job opportunities, said a person familiar with the contents of
the document. The firm is carrying on business as usual and at
the same time trying to find employment for legal and non-legal
staff, according to the person who saw the memo and who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  Otherwise Inhibited  “Our memo did not encourage people to leave,” Bienenstock
said today in his e-mail. “Rather, it explained that the
partners who do not want to be part of a merger could look
elsewhere. This way they would not be otherwise inhibited by
duties to the partnership.”  At least 11 lawyers announced departures from Dewey
yesterday including Marshall Stoddard, the U.S. head of Dewey’s
bank and institutional finance practice group, and Charles Moore, an energy partner in Houston, who both left for
Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP along with two
counsel lawyers and an associate.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired disputes partner Peter
Gray for the firm’s Dubai office, and Clifford Chance LLP hired
Howard Adler, co-chair of Dewey’s compensation and benefits
practice and Gary Boss, a partner who specializes in mergers and
acquisitions and insurance. Dewey partner Gary Apfel, co-chair
of the consumer financial services group, also announced his
departure yesterday to Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton LLP to
lead that firm’s California expansion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 