-- Dewey, Davis Polk, Latham, Bingham, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-05-01T14:33:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dewey-davis-polk-latham-bingham-sidley-dla-business-of-law.html
At least 11 lawyers announced
departures from  New York  law firm Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP yesterday,
pushing the total to more than 80 in recent months, as the firm
continues to work toward an agreement with banks about the
deadline for a line of credit.  New York prosecutors are probing possible wrongdoing at the
firm and Steven Davis, formerly sole chairman, hired criminal
defense attorney Barry Bohrer, a partner at Morvillo,
Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer, as he faces
allegations of misconduct.  Among those leaving yesterday, were Marshall Stoddard, the
U.S. head of Dewey’s bank and institutional finance practice
group, and Charles Moore, an energy partner in Houston. They
both left for Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP
along with two counsel lawyers and an associate.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired disputes partner Peter Gray for the firm’s Dubai office, and  Clifford Chance  LLP hired
Gary Boss, who specializes in mergers and acquisitions and
insurance. Howard Adler, Dewey’s former co-chairman of the
compensation, benefits and employment department, has jumped to
Clifford Chance also. Adler is the fourth Dewey partner to join
the firm’s New York office since the start of the year, Clifford
Chance said.  Dewey partner Gary Apfel, co-chairman of the consumer
financial services group, also announced his departure yesterday
to Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton LLP to lead that firm’s
California expansion.  Gordon Warnke and Joseph Pari have joined Linklaters LLP’s
U.S. tax practice as of today.  Dewey management sent another memo to the firm’s partners
yesterday informing them they are free to explore other job
opportunities, said a person familiar with the contents of the
document. The firm is carrying on business as usual and at the
same time trying to find employment for legal and non-legal
staff, according to the person who saw the memo and who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  As the firm faces prepares for a possible bankruptcy,
merger talks with Greenberg Traurig LLP ended over the weekend,
according to two people familiar with the matter.  No single firm currently appears willing to buy all of what
is left of Dewey, according to a person familiar with the
situation. Dewey now is talking with several firms that might
take parts of its specialized practice groups, as part of a
bankruptcy plan devised with lenders’ consent, said the person,
who declined to be named because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs LLP, based in  Washington , is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. Under Dewey’s plan,
different firms might pay to acquire receivables generated by
lawyers they took on, he said. The New York-based  law firm  does
have something to sell -- groups of strong practices, he said.  Dewey’s most profitable practices include bankruptcy,
corporate law, litigation and public policy, the firm has said.  The plan remains uncertain because firms considering taking
some of Dewey’s lawyers might do better to pick up the pieces
after a bankruptcy filing, the person said.  Patton Boggs wouldn’t say if it will take on some of
Dewey’s lawyers.  “From time to time we have conversations with other firms
in connection with our interest in making strategic acquisitions
to strengthen our practice,” said Patton Boggs Managing Partner
Edward Newberry. “We have only the highest regard for the
lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf. They have a legacy of being among
the very best in the areas in which they practice.”  The firm is close to reaching an agreement with banks about
the deadline for a line of credit, a person familiar with the
talks said.  The extension, giving the New York law firm more time to
keep operating and collecting bills from clients, would be for a
couple of weeks, much less than the 120 days envisaged this past
weekend before Dewey’s talks with Greenberg Traurig about a
partial combination ended, said the person, who declined to be
named because the talks were private.  An accord between Dewey and lenders, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , wasn’t yet signed, the person
said.  For more, click here.  Moves  White House Deputy Counsel Kim Harris Returns to Davis Polk  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP announced that former White House
principal deputy counsel Kim Harris will rejoin the firm’s
litigation department as a partner, one of a number of senior
Washington lawyers the firm has hired recently.  Harris’s practice will focus on advising institutions and
individuals under investigation by the U.S. Congress, the
 Justice Department , the Securities and Exchange Commission and
other government agencies.  During her time at the White House, Harris developed and
executed the president’s response to congressional
investigations, advised senior executive branch officials on
congressional investigations and executive privilege issues,
managed litigation matters involving the president, and advised
senior white house officials on a range of compliance and risk
management issues and other legal matters, the firm said.  Harris practiced in Davis Polk’s litigation department from
1997 to 2009, representing major corporations in all aspects of
regulatory and criminal investigations.  Earlier this year, international trade lawyer John Reynolds
III joined Davis Polk’s newly expanded Washington office.
Litigator Greg Andres, former deputy assistant attorney general
in charge of the fraud and appellate sections of the Justice
Department’s criminal division, also rejoined the firm in March.  Harris joins other former senior government lawyers in the
litigation department who are focusing on white collar criminal
defense and government investigations, including Washington
partners Linda Chatman Thomsen, former director of enforcement
at the SEC, and Raul Yanes, former assistant to the president
and White House staff secretary. New York partner Scott Muller
is a former general counsel of the CIA.  Davis Polk and its associated entities have more than 800
lawyers in offices in New York, Menlo Park,  California ,
Washington, Sao Paulo,  London , Paris, Madrid,  Hong Kong , Beijing
and  Tokyo .  Jackson Lewis Adds Former Merck VP and Associate Counsel  Former Merck & Co. Vice President and Associate General
Counsel John L. Sander joined Jackson Lewis LLP in New York as
partner.  Sander has more than 15 years of senior management
experience in employment and labor counseling and litigation
within the U.S. and globally, the firm said in a statement. He
joined Schering Plough in 1995 and managed major employment and
labor matters outside the U.S. after Merck’s merger with
Schering Plough in 2009.  “John’s experience in the international employment law
arena is the perfect fit for Jackson Lewis, for our
international practice, and our L&E Global Alliance” said
Patrick L. Vaccaro, firm-wide managing partner.  Jackson Lewis has almost 700 lawyers practicing in 49
offices across the country.  Washington Lawyer Boggs Leaves Blank Rome for King & Spalding  J. Caleb Boggs III, formerly at Blank Rome LLP, joined King
& Spalding LLP’s government advocacy and public policy practice
as a partner in Washington. He will concentrate on the financial
services industry.  Boggs has experience representing corporate, trade
association and non-profit clients before Congress and the
executive branch on matters affecting financial services, tax,
privacy and information security, e-commerce, homeland security,
international trade and political law.  Boggs was appointed by President  George W. Bush  in 2009 to
a six-year term as representative to the International Centre
for Settlement of Investment Disputes, an agency of the  World
Bank . He is a former counsel to the U.S. Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs, including the Permanent Subcommittee on
Investigations.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe , the Middle East and  Asia .  Seyfarth Shaw Bolsters Employee Benefits Practice in Atlanta  Seyfarth Shaw LLP announced that Nicole D. Bogard has
joined as a partner in the firm’s employee benefits and
executive compensation department in the Atlanta office. Bogard
was previously with boutique employee benefits law firm,
Mazursky Constantine LLC.  Bogard has more than 17 years of experience in the health
and welfare benefits arena. She represents clients with matters
before the  Internal Revenue Service , the Labor Department and
the Department of Health and Human Services. She has represented
employers on numerous health and welfare employee benefit
compliance issues including COBRA administration, HRAs and HSAs.  Seyfarth Shaw has more than 800 attorneys located in 10
offices throughout the U.S., including Atlanta, Boston,
Washington, Chicago, Houston,  Los Angeles , New York,  San
Francisco , and Sacramento, California, as well as
internationally in London.  Deals  Energy Transfer Buys Sunoco for $5.3 Billion, Adds Oil Lines  Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP) , owner of more than 17,500
miles of natural-gas  pipelines , agreed to buy Sunoco Inc. for
$5.3 billion, expanding its ability to ship higher-margin oil
and natural gas liquids.  Latham & Watkins LLP, Bingham McCutchen LLP and Delaware’s
Morris, Nichols, Arsht & Tunnell LLP acted as legal counsel for
Energy Transfer Partners.  Wells Fargo & Co . was financial
adviser. Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz LLP was Sunoco’s legal
adviser, while Credit Suisse was its financial adviser.  Latham & Watkins’s corporate deal team was led by Houston
partners Bill Finnegan, Sean Wheeler and Chicago partner Timothy
FitzSimons. Assistance was also provided by Houston partner
Timothy Fenn and Los Angeles partner Laurence Stein on tax
matters. Washington partners Kenneth Simon and Natasha
Gianvecchio contributed on regulatory matters; Houston partner
Joel Mack assisted on environmental matters; and Washington,
partner Michael Egge on antitrust matters. Houston partners
Craig Kornreich and Catherine Ozdogan, New York partner Robert
Zuccaro and Washington partner Patrick Shannon assisted with
financing. Washington partner David Della Rocca assisted on
employee benefits.  Bingham acted as tax counsel with Washington partners Brad
Whitehurst, Bill McKee, Gary Huffman, Jasper Howard and Mike
Schultz acting for ETP.  Morris Nichols acted as conflicts committee counsel.
Partners Andrew Johnston in the Delaware corporate law
counseling group and Louis Hering in the commercial law
counseling group were involved.  Wachtell’s legal team for Sunoco was led by corporate
partners David A. Katz and David K. Lam. Associates James R.
Gilmartin and Sebastian L. Fain also helped. On antitrust,
partner Nelson O. Fitts and associate Yuni Yan were involved. On
executive compensation and benefits Adam J. Shapiro and
associates Adam Kaminsky and Michael J. Schobel assisted. Tax
partner Eiko Stange and associate Michael Sabbah also
contributed.  Sunoco holders will receive about $50.13 a share,
consisting of $25 in cash and 0.5245 common units of Energy
Transfer, according to a joint statement yesterday. Dallas-based
Energy Transfer is paying a 23 percent premium above the April
27 closing price for Sunoco.  Sunoco, based in Philadelphia, has been shutting or selling
its refineries and said in September it was considering a
possible sale. Energy Transfer Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman Kelcy Warren has been trying to transform the company
from a regional gas shipper in Texas to a national logistics
operation that handles oil, refined products and natural gas
liquids.  For more, click here.  News  Madoff Costs Surpass Victim Payoffs as Strategy Lies in Ruins  Irving Picard , who said last year he hoped to pay investors
in Bernard Madoff’s defunct firm as much as $65 billion, has
only put his hands on about $2.6 billion to actually give back
to customers.  More than three years after Madoff’s epic swindle
collapsed, Baker & Hostetler LLP partner Picard, the trustee
responsible for liquidating the firm, has paid investors back
about $330 million, while holding about $2.3 billion in customer
accounts. About $6.4 billion that Picard has won in settlements
with former Madoff investors is being challenged in court and is
unavailable for disbursement.  So far, winding down the Madoff estate has cost more than
Picard has sent to customers, with total administrative spending
as of March 31 at about $554 million, including fees for Picard,
his firm and consultants he hired, according to his April 25
report. At the same time, Picard’s strategy of filing $100
billion of lawsuits to claw back money from Madoff winners has
largely collapsed, as federal judges led by U.S. District Judge
Jed Rakoff in New York have dismissed about $90 billion of
Picard’s claims.  Amanda Remus, a Picard spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail asking if the trustee has revised his
estimate of how much he will ultimately pay Madoff customers.  Picard’s latest estimate of the con man’s fictitious
customer statements is $52 billion. That includes $17.3 billion
in actual money invested, with the rest being the fake profits
Madoff invented for customer statements. As of December, Picard
estimated the total at $65 billion, before the withdrawal of
some claims.  The $330 million he has sent to customers, out of the $2.6
billion set aside for them, contrasts with about $800 million
they’ve received from the insurance program of the Securities
Investor Protection Corp., which hired Picard and pays him.  As of March 31, Picard himself has been paid about $5.1
million in fees. His law firm, Baker & Hostetler, has been paid
about $262.2 million in fees. All professional fees and expenses
now stand at about $522 million, with about $31.7 million having
been spent on general administrative costs such as office rent
and telephones. By 2014, the bill will top $1 billion, Picard
has estimated.  The case is Picard v. Katz, 11-cv-03605, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SEC Names New York Chief Canellos Deputy Enforcement Director  George Canellos, head of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s New York regional office, has been named deputy
director of the agency’s enforcement division, the agency said
in a statement yesterday.  Canellos, 47, will take over the job vacated by  Lorin Reisner , who left the SEC in January to become a top federal
prosecutor in New York, the agency said. Canellos joined the
agency in 2009, overseeing about 400 staff, including
investigators, accountants and examiners responsible for
policing more than 4,000 investment banks, advisers, brokers and
 hedge funds .  “For the past three years, George has been an incredibly
effective advocate for investors and has helped the New York
office take on some of the most difficult cases in the
securities arena,” SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  said in the
statement.  Canellos, who holds degrees from Harvard College and
Columbia University School of Law, became a U.S. prosecutor in
the  Southern District of New York  in 1994 before joining law
firm Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, the SEC said.  He will take over as deputy enforcement director on June 4,
and Andrew Calamari, senior associate regional director, will
become acting head of the New York office, the SEC said.  Firm News  Carter Phillips Selected To Head Sidley’s Executive Committee  Sidley Austin LLP announced that Carter G. Phillips will
become the head of the firm’s executive committee next year
after a one-year period of sharing the title with his
predecessor.  Thomas A. Cole, who will be 65 next year and is in his 15th
year as chairman of the executive committee, will continue as
co-chairman for the transitional period.  In a statement Cole said he was happy with Phillips’
selection to succeed him. “His prominence as the leading U.S.
appellate lawyer, his proven management skills as the leader of
our 275-lawyer Washington office for 17 years and the fact that
he is an exemplar of our storied firm culture, all make him the
clear choice. When the baton pass has been completed in 12-
months’ time, I look forward to having even more time to serve
clients on M&A and corporate governance assignments.”  Phillips, 59, has argued 76 cases before the  Supreme Court ,
more than any other lawyer in private practice, the firm said in
a statement. He also has argued more than 100 cases in other
appellate courts.  Sidley Austin LLP has about 1,700 lawyers practicing in 18
U.S. and international cities, including Beijing, Brussels,
Frankfurt, Geneva, Hong Kong, London, Shanghai, Singapore,
Sydney and Tokyo.  DLA Piper Appoints New Asia Pacific Managing Director  Bob Charlton,  DLA Piper  LLP’s international group head of
finance and projects, was appointed to the role of managing
director, Asia Pacific, effective today, the firm said in a
statement.  He replaces Alastair Da Costa, who served for five years as
head of DLA Piper’s Asia, then Asia Pacific, business. Da Costa
is returning to the U.K. where he will pursue a masters degree
at the London School of Economics, while remaining as a
consultant for the firm, according to the statement.  Charlton is a finance and projects lawyer both in the U.K.
and Asia with experience in the infrastructure, transactional
and banking fields. He will be based in Hong Kong and plans to
split his time between DLA Piper in Australia and Asia. He will
regularly visit the firm’s 11 offices in the region: Bangkok,
Beijing, Brisbane, Canberra, Hong Kong, Melbourne, Perth,
Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo, according to the
statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices
throughout the U.S., U.K., Continental Europe, Middle East, Asia
and Australia, according to an earlier firm statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 