-- Dewey U.K. Said Preparing Wind Up While U.S. Soldiers On
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s ,   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-05-02T00:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dewey-leboeuf-london-office-said-to-prepare-for-liquidation.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP is preparing to
liquidate its U.K. office while its U.S. practice tries to
collect its bills and preserve its business, a firm executive
and two people familiar with the situation said.  The New York-based law firm’s  London  office appointed a
committee including restructuring lawyer Mark Fennessy and
banking lawyer  Bruce Johnston  to review its options to wind down
or close the business, said the people, who declined to be named
because the matter is private. More than 25 partners work at
Dewey’s London operation, out of about 300 partners worldwide
before a round of departures, said one of the people.  In New York, the firm is near an agreement with banks about
extending a credit line and plans to stave off bankruptcy by
collecting bills to pay lenders and transferring employees and
property to other firms, said  Martin Bienenstock , one of four
members of Dewey’s chairman’s office. Dewey is talking with
potential merger partners and its lenders are being cooperative,
he said.  “Bankruptcy is always a last resort and is not in current
plans,” Bienenstock, who heads Dewey’s restructuring group,
said in an e-mail today. “If real property and equipment leases
are assumed by other firms or renegotiated, and the lenders
realize on their accounts receivable and inventory, there may be
no need.”  Credit Line  Dewey has drawn about $75 million of an available
$100 million on the  credit line , according to a person familiar
with the firm’s finances. About 85 partners have left the U.S.
firm in recent weeks.  Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey in the U.S., didn’t
return a call seeking comment. Calls and e-mails to Fennessy and
Johnston weren’t immediately answered. Peter Sharp, the managing
partner of the London office, didn’t reply to requests for
comment.  Dewey’s U.K. partnership, which also covers its Paris
office, is a separate legal entity to the firm’s U.S. limited
liability partnership, so a decision on whether to file for so-
called administration can be made separately.  The firm said in an internal memorandum on April 29 that
New York prosecutors were probing possible wrongdoing at the
firm. The memo said that Steven Davis, formerly sole chairman,
was ousted from a five-person chairman’s office and the
executive committee.  Criminal Lawyer  Davis hired criminal defense attorney Barry Bohrer, a
partner at Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer,
as he faces allegations of misconduct.  “Every action of Mr. Davis as chair of the firm was taken
in good faith and in the best interests of the firm,” Bohrer
said in an e-mail confirming his retention. “He is confident
that fair-minded professionals will conclude that he engaged in
no misconduct.”  The turmoil at Dewey has upended the firm’s plans to find a
merger partner and sent prices of its bonds reeling. The
privately placed debt, issued in 2010 to refinance older bank
loans and once valued at 100 cents on the dollar, were seen to
trade April 27 in the 60s, said Kevin Starke, an analyst at CRT
Capital Group LLC.  “If the firm reorganizes, the loan and the notes could be
money good, but if it liquidates, it will come down to the
valuation of accounts receivable,” he said, referring to
Dewey’s bills to clients for legal services. CRT, which trades
distressed debt, didn’t handle the sale of Dewey bonds by an
investor last week, he said.  Other Opportunities  Dewey management sent another memo to all the firm’s
partners yesterday informing them they are free to explore other
job opportunities, said a person familiar with the contents of
the document. The firm is carrying on business as usual and at
the same time trying to find employment for legal and non-legal
staff, according to the person who saw the memo and who declined
to be identified because the information is private.  “Our memo did not encourage people to leave,” Bienenstock
said today in his e-mail. “Rather, it explained that the
partners who do not want to be part of a merger could look
elsewhere. This way they would not be otherwise inhibited by
duties to the partnership.”  The firm said today in an e-mailed statement that health
insurance coverage for its partners and employees had been
suspended.  ‘Short-Term Suspension’  “A payment routing issue involving the agent and the
insurer resulted in a temporary, very short-term suspension of
medical coverage,” according to the statement. “The firm has
paid its premium and is actively working with the insurer to
restore full coverage to partners and employees as soon as
practicable. Health coverage will be restored.”  Dewey’s talks with Greenberg Traurig LLP about a possible
merger fell apart this week, Dewey said. No single firm
currently appears willing to buy all of what is left of the
firm, said a person familiar with the situation. Dewey now is
talking with several firms that might take parts of its
specialized practice groups, as part of a plan devised with
lenders’ consent, said the person, who declined to be named
because the talks are private.  Patton Boggs LLP, based in Washington, is among the firms
conferring with Dewey, said the person. Under Dewey’s plan,
different firms might pay to acquire receivables generated by
lawyers they took on, he said. The  law firm  does have something
to sell -- groups of strong practices, he said.  Profitable Practices  Dewey’s most profitable practices include bankruptcy,
corporate law, litigation and public policy, the firm has said.  The plan remains uncertain because firms considering taking
some of Dewey’s lawyers might do better to pick up the pieces
after a bankruptcy filing, the person said.  Patton Boggs wouldn’t say if it will take on some of
Dewey’s lawyers.  “From time to time we have conversations with other firms
in connection with our interest in making strategic acquisitions
to strengthen our practice,” said Patton Boggs Managing Partner
Edward Newberry. “We have only the highest regard for the
lawyers at Dewey & LeBoeuf. They have a legacy of being among
the very best in the areas in which they practice.”  SNR Denton, which has headquarters in  Washington  and
London, is also in talks with Dewey on a possible merger,
according to a source familiar with the discussions. The firm
declined to comment.  Comment on Rumors  “We enjoy strong relationships with many law firms around
the world,” said Jeff Scalzi, a spokesman for SNR Denton, in an
e-mailed statement. “However, we never comment on rumors about
specific discussions or our continuing efforts to enhance SNR
Denton’s already robust global presence.”  Since yesterday, at least 15 lawyers have announced
departures from Dewey including Marshall Stoddard, the U.S. head
of Dewey’s bank and institutional finance practice group, and
Charles Moore, an energy partner in Houston, who both left for
Philadelphia-based Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP along with two
counsel lawyers and an associate.  Among the departures announced today is Stuart Saft, co-
chair of Dewey’s  New York  real estate practice group, who’s
joining Holland & Knight.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP hired disputes partner Peter Gray for the firm’s Dubai office, and Clifford Chance LLP hired
Howard Adler, co-chair of Dewey’s compensation and benefits
practice and Gary Boss, a partner who specializes in mergers and
acquisitions and insurance. Dewey partner Gary Apfel, co-chair
of the consumer financial services group, also announced his
departure yesterday to Philadelphia-based Pepper Hamilton LLP to
lead that firm’s California expansion.  Dewey & LeBoeuf was created by the merger of Dewey
Ballantine and LeBoeuf Lamb Greene & MacRae in October 2007,
during a credit crisis. The marriage produced the 11th-largest
U.S. law firm with 1,300 lawyers, offices in 25 cities and
revenue of more than $900 million. LeBoeuf Lamb Chairman Steven
Davis took the helm.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  