-- Dick Clark Productions Wins Trial Over Golden Globes Broadcast
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dick-clark-productions-prevails-in-trial-over-golden-globes.html
Dick Clark Productions Inc. won a
trial against the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which had
alleged that the producer couldn’t license broadcasts of the
Golden Globes.  U.S. District Judge Howard Matz in  Los Angeles , who
presided over a trial without a jury, said yesterday that Dick
Clark Productions has the right under the agreement with the
association to license the award show to NBC only, so long as
NBC commits to broadcast the show.  The judge said in an 89-page ruling that there was one
overriding feature in the relationship between Dick Clark
Productions and the association that helped explain why the
producer had such sweeping rights to the show.  “That feature is simply this,” Matz said. The “Hollywood
Foreign Press Association suffered from the absence of sound,
business-like practices.”  The association, which has organized the show since 1944,
sued Dick Clark Productions in 2010 and accused the producer of
trademark infringement and breach of contract, among other
claims. The association sought a court order blocking a
licensing agreement between Dick Clark Productions, now owned by
the private-equity firm Red Zone Capital Management Co., and the
NBC network.  “We are pleased the court affirmed our contract and look
forward to working with the HFPA and NBC to nurture and expand
the Golden Globes franchise for years to come,”  Mark Shapiro ,
chief executive officer of Dick Clark Productions, said in a
statement.  Daniel Petrocelli , a lawyer for the Hollywood Foreign Press
Association, didn’t immediately return a call to his office
after regular business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Hollywood Foreign Press Association v. Red Zone
Capital Partners, 10-08833, U.S. District Court, Central
District of  California  (Los Angeles.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  