-- Diet-Drug Lawyers’ Convictions for Fund Theft Upheld
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-05-01T23:57:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/diet-drug-lawyers-lose-appeal-of-convictions-for-fund-theft-1-.html
Two disbarred Kentucky lawyers
sentenced to prison for stealing from a $200 million fen-phen
diet-drug settlement fund failed to persuade a federal appeals
court to reverse their convictions.  “The evidence of the defendants’ guilt in this case was
overwhelming,” the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati said
today in upholding the 2009 convictions and sentences of William
Gallion and Shirley Cunningham Jr.  Gallion was sentenced to 25 years and Cunningham to 20
years for their April 2009 conviction on nine criminal counts
including  wire fraud  and conspiracy. The appeals court also
upheld the trial judge’s order requiring the two men to pay more
than $127 million to former clients who were victims of the
fraud.  The criminal charges were connected to a $200 million
settlement between American Home Products Corp. and Kentucky
residents who claimed they were harmed by the once-popular fen-
phen diet drug combination.  During the trial, prosecutors showed jurors evidence that
Gallion and Cunningham had contracts entitling both men to fees
of as much as one-third of the settlement. The lawyers tried to
keep more than twice that amount, prosecutors said.  “Testimony revealed that Cunningham and Gallion directed
their subordinates to conceal highly important information about
the settlement from their clients (including the total amount of
the settlement, the number of claimants sharing in it, and the
method of allocation) and to offer each claimant substantially
less than his or her properly calculated share,” the appeals
court said.  ‘Massive Scheme’  “The lawyers misled some of their clients into believing
that there had been a successful renegotiation of their claims
with AHP and that a breach of the settlement’s confidentiality
clause could lead to jail time,” the appeals court said, citing
trial testimony. “These misrepresentations support the
conclusion that Cunningham and Gallion participated in a massive
scheme to defraud their clients.”  Gallion will seek a hearing by the entire appellate court,
his attorney, H. Louis Sirkin, said in a phone interview today.
If that fails, Gallion will seek review by the U.S. Supreme
Court, he said.  “We’re not done yet,” Sirkin said.  T. Clifton Harviel, Cunningham’s lawyer, said he was
disappointed by the decision.  ‘Considering Options’  “We’re considering our options,” Harviel said in a phone
interview. “Most likely, the next move is asking for an en banc
hearing.”  The convictions came in the former lawyers’ second trial.
The first ended in a mistrial in July 2008 after jurors
deadlocked 10-2 in favor of acquittal. The same jury acquitted a
third attorney, Melbourne Mills, after his lawyer argued that he
was too impaired by alcoholism to participate in the scheme.  The case is U.S. v. Cunningham, 09-5987/5988, U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 