-- Euro Falls a 3rd Day Versus Dollar on Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-05-02T21:15:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/dollar-remains-higher-against-yen-before-adp-employment-report.html
The euro weakened for a third day
against the dollar, the longest losing streak in almost a month,
after data showed European manufacturing shrank and unemployment
rose in  Germany , adding to concern the debt crisis will worsen.  The 17-nation currency fell to a two-week low versus the
yen on bets European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may
hint at further easing at a meeting tomorrow. The dollar pared
gains against the yen after data showed U.S. firms added fewer
workers in April than forecast, fueling speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may keep accommodative monetary policy in place longer.
Higher-yielding currencies dropped as risk appetite ebbed.  “Those horrible purchasing-manager index data out of
 Europe , it’s not a good situation,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “The only reason why the euro probably
didn’t go down further is because the market is looking ahead to
the ECB meeting to see how they characterize this whole mess.”  Europe’s shared currency dropped 0.6 percent to $1.3158 at
5 p.m. in New York in its longest stretch of daily losses since
April 5. The euro fell 0.5 percent to 105.46 yen and touched
105.13 yen, the lowest since April 16. The dollar was little
changed at 80.14 yen after appreciating earlier as much as 0.7
percent.  New Zealand ’s dollar and Norway’s krone were among higher-
yielding currencies that dropped against the greenback. The
kiwi, as the New Zealand currency is nicknamed, slid 0.6 percent
to 81.08 U.S. cents, and the krone lost 0.4 percent to 5.7424 to
the  U.S. dollar .  Mexico ’s peso fell 0.2 percent to 12.9378.  Stocks declined, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
falling 0.9 percent before paring its loss to 0.3 percent.  European Manufacturing  The euro dropped against most of its 16 major peers as
London-based Markit Economics said its purchasing-manager index
of euro-region manufacturing shrank for a ninth month, falling
to a 34-month low of 45.9 in April from 47.7 in March. A reading
below 50 shows contraction.  The number of people out of work in Germany increased a
seasonally adjusted 19,000 last month to 2.87 million, the
Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency said. Economists surveyed
by Bloomberg forecast a decline of 10,000. Yields on Germany’s
two-, five-, 10-, and 30-year bonds dropped to record lows.  At the ECB meeting tomorrow, Draghi may ‘begin to hint that
the outlook for the European economy is clearly beginning to
deteriorate again,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency
strategist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Sydney. “Within the next
couple of months, the possibility of further rate cuts from the
ECB is rising.”  ECB Rate Bets  The central bank will keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a
record low 1 percent tomorrow, according to all 58 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Spain  will auction three- and five-year notes tomorrow amid
speculation that the euro area’s fourth-largest economy will
follow  Greece , Ireland and Portugal in seeking a bailout. France
and Greece hold elections on May 6.  The shared currency slid 6.9 percent over the past year,
the worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
climbed 5.9 percent, and the yen appreciated 5.3 percent.  The euro is approaching  price levels  versus the dollar that
indicate a break from a consolidation pattern, setting the stage
for further weakness against the greenback, according to
Citigroup Inc.  A daily close below $1.2995 per euro will signal a break of
a so-called price trend channel,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical strategist at Citigroup in  New York , wrote in a note
today. A breach could send the shared currency to as low as
$1.20, he said.  ‘Increasingly Bleak’  “We are seeing signs of a break in the euro as things
continue to look increasingly bleak,” Fitzpatrick said in an
interview. “At the end of the day, nothing in Europe has been
fixed and there remains a lot of concern, so money is going to
places where investors are ensured to get it back.”  The  Dollar Index  trimmed gains after a report showed U.S.
companies added fewer jobs than forecast. Private employers’
payrolls increased by 119,000 workers, after a revised 201,000
gain in March, according to Roseland, New Jersey-based ADP
Employer Services. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was for an advance of 170,000.  ‘Warning Light’  “If the ADP is to be believed, it shows that growth in the
second quarter is clearly slowing more than the market forecast,
and it definitely puts a very big, bright warning light on
growth forecasts going forward,” said Boris Schlossberg,
director of research at the online currency trader GFT Forex in
New York.  The Labor Department will report May 4 that U.S. nonfarm
payrolls added 160,000 jobs in April, up from 120,000 the
previous month, another Bloomberg survey showed.  While the Fed refrained at a two-day meeting last week from
new actions to boost the economy, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
it’s “prepared to do more” if necessary. The central bank
bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two rounds of quantitative
easing from December 2008 to June 2011 to lower borrowing costs.
The  Dollar Index (DXY)  fell 14 percent during that period.  Four U.S. central bankers said they don’t see a need to
ease policy further as the economy expands.  John Williams ,
president of the San Francisco Fed, joined his counterparts from
Richmond, Philadelphia and Atlanta yesterday in casting doubt on
the need for additional purchases of bonds to cap longer-term
 interest rates .  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
rose 0.4 percent today to 79.142 and reached 79.319, the highest
level since April 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  