-- Drew Brees, Billie Jean King Find Health in Video Games
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-05-01T15:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/drew-brees-billie-jean-king-find-health-in-video-games.html
“Next time the football field,”
warned Michael Gallagher, president and chief executive of the
Entertainment Software Association, after beating star
quarterback  Drew Brees  at a video golf game by  EA Sports (EA)  on Xbox
360.  The friendly competition took place last night at the
Smithsonian American Art Museum, where the Entertainment
Software Association hosted a reception with the  President’s
Council on Fitness, Sports & Nutrition  to promote active video
games for young people.  Brees, who is with the  New Orleans Saints , said that active
video games can be tough cardio workouts, even for someone at
his fitness level.  “It can have you sweating in five minutes,” he said of
the golf game he played.  “Whatever works to get people moving,” said tennis legend
 Billie Jean King , adding that her niece is fond of a step-
aerobics game called “Dance Dance Revolution.”  King chatted with 3 Click Solutions owner Patrick Murphy
and Jessica Wahl, youth program specialist for the Department of
the Interior.  Thomas McMillen, CEO of  Homeland Security Capital Corp. (HOMS) ,
Federal Communications Commissioner Mignon Clyburn and Kathleen Sebelius, secretary of the Department of Health and Human
Services were among the guests who walked through an exhibit
called “The Art of Video Games” on their way to the party,
which featured an array of high-tech demonstrations with the
usual cocktails and appetizers.  Pearls at the Plate  In pearls and heels, Jacqueline Efron, a public-relations
generalist, according to her card, for Sony Computer
Entertainment America, stepped up to the plate of PlayStation’s
“MLB 12 The Show,” an interactive baseball game.  Erik Huey, senior vice president of government affairs for
the Entertainment Software Association, which serves the
business needs of companies that publish computer and video
games, explained that his goal is to turn “passive screen time
into active screen time” for 21st-century children. “We are
the only industry that can do that.”  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on  music ,
Richard Vines on  restaurants .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in  Washington  at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 