-- Drillers May Frack First, Disclose Later Under Draft Plan
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-05-01T16:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/drillers-may-frack-first-disclose-later-under-draft-plan.html
Natural-gas companies drilling on U.S.
land would be permitted to wait until after hydraulic fracturing
is completed to disclose what chemicals they used, under a draft
rule being considered by the Interior Department.  A version in February required companies to file a complete
chemical makeup at least 30 days before work began, a mandate
that drew complaints from energy trade groups, including the
Washington-based American Exploration and Production  Council .
The rule might slow energy production, they said.  President  Barack Obama  has pledged to increase U.S.
natural-gas output in a way that doesn’t hurt the environment.
Delaying disclosure will make it harder for homeowners to prove
that drilling was responsible for tainted water, according to
Amy Mall, a senior policy analyst for the  Natural Resources
Defense Council  in  Washington .  “Homeowners need the ability to show that there’s been a
change in their water before and after fracking,” Mall said in
an interview. “ We’re concerned that it was weakened.”  Disclosure before fracking would let landowners test for
the specific chemicals drillers plan to use, Mall said.
Otherwise, pre-drilling tests may not detect all fracking
chemicals.  Post-Fracking Disclosure  Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, releases gas trapped in
shale rock by injecting water, sand and chemicals thousands of
feet underground. It’s used for almost every new natural-gas
well drilled in the U.S.  Requiring disclosure of chemicals “would only be required
after the fracturing operation has taken place,” according to
the draft, obtained by Bloomberg News.  “You know how it works,” Mall said. “If they find
something in their water after the fracking, the company says
you have to prove it wasn’t there before.”  The Washington-based Environmental Working Group said in
February that some of the chemicals already disclosed by the
companies are known to cause cancer or reproductive harm.  The Obama administration plans to post the fracking
information on a public website, possibly on  FracFocus.org ,
according to the draft. FracFocus is managed by the Ground Water
Protection  Council  and Interstate Oil and Gas Compact
 Commission .  API Guidelines  The rule are being developed with input from the public and
industry, according to an administration official familiar with
its development who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to discuss a matter still being written.  The rule, which also includes standards for well
construction, is consistent with guidelines established by the
American Petroleum Institute, the largest industry trade group,
according to the draft.  In the draft, the Interior Department said it doesn’t
expect the additional requirements to slow approval of drilling
permits.  “We see the potential value in pre-frack disclosure but,
since changes in the chemicals used are sometimes made at the
time the operation takes place, a true-up requirement would also
be needed,” Scott Anderson, senior policy adviser for the
 Environmental Defense Fund  in Austin,  Texas , said in an
interview. “A good way to give landowners and the general
public a view of what’s likely to be used prior to frack 
operations is to make sure that nearby frack treatments have
been reported.”  Federal Oversight  While Obama has praised natural-gas drilling as a source of
hundreds of thousands of jobs in the next decade, critics in the
industry say the regulations may be a first step toward broader
federal oversight of fracking.  About a fifth of U.S. production occurs on government land,
primarily in western states such as Colorado and  Wyoming .
Natural-gas companies argue that regulating the practice should
be left to state authorities who are more familiar with the
local geology.  “States are effectively requiring disclosure, without
discouraging investment,” Reid Porter, a spokesman for the
 American Petroleum Institute , said on Feb. 3, following the
release of the first draft. “FracFocus, which is working very
effectively, is an example of this and is being adapted by
several states.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  