-- Stoudemire Cuts Hand Following Knicks’ Loss; Thunder, Pacers Win
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-05-01T05:12:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/heat-beat-knicks-104-94-to-take-2-0-lead-in-nba-playoff-series.html
The  New York Knicks  lost their record-
tying 12th straight National Basketball Association playoff game
and now may be without Amar’e Stoudemire, who cut his left hand
following last night’s defeat in Miami.  The Heat beat the Knicks 104-94 behind 25 points from
Dwyane Wade to open a 2-0 lead in their best-of-seven first-
round playoff series. Stoudemire was injured when he apparently
punched a fire extinguisher case in frustration.  Stoudemire, the Knicks’ second-leading scorer, left
AmericanAirlines Arena with his arm in a sling. His status isn’t
known, coach  Mike Woodson  said. TNT Sports, which showed video
of paramedics entering and leaving the Knicks’ locker room,
reported that Stoudemire may have received stitches.  “Amar’e is a huge part of this team,” Knicks center Tyson Chandler told reporters afterwards. “Without him, it’s going to
make it more difficult. It’s tough. Your emotions run high and
split-second decisions can alter things. Now you’ve got to deal
with the repercussions.”  The Oklahoma City Thunder beat the Dallas Mavericks 102-99
to take a 2-0 lead against the defending NBA champions, while
the Indiana Pacers defeated the Orlando Magic 93-78 to even
their playoff series 1-1.  The  Chicago Bulls  host the Philadelphia 76ers tonight,
while the  Boston Celtics  visit the  Atlanta Hawks  and the  Los
Angeles Lakers  are home to the  Denver Nuggets . The home team is
up 1-0 in all three series.  Back to New York  The Knicks, who haven’t won a playoff game since the
2000-01 postseason, return to New York for the next two games in
their Eastern Conference series, including Game 3 on May 3.  The Heat, the No. 2 seed in the East, lost 10 of their
final 15 regular-season road games.  “Now we’ve got to see what we’re made of at home,”
Woodson said at a news conference. He didn’t give any further
details on the incident involving Stoudemire.  “He has a cut, that’s all I know at this point,” he said.
“How severe it is, I don’t know.”  Stoudemire apologized on his Twitter account, though he
didn’t indicate whether he’d miss any time.  “I am so mad at myself right now, I want to apologize to
the fans and my team,” Stoudemire  wrote . “Not proud of my
actions, headed home for a new start.”  The Heat, coming off a 33-point Game 1 victory, opened a
six-point halftime lead last night and extended their advantage
to as many as 15 points in the fourth quarter.  Chris Bosh  added
21 points, while LeBron James had 19 points and nine assists.  Significant Laceration  Carmelo Anthony  scored 30 points to lead the Knicks and
Stoudemire had 18 points. Stoudemire will probably undergo
further tests today to determine the extent of the injury. TNT
reported that he suffered a significant laceration.  “You never want to hear about someone getting hurt,” Wade
said. “We want all their guns on the court to make sure we all
bring our best.”  The Heat have a 6-0 record when leading 2-0 in a best-of-
seven NBA playoff series.  The Thunder won their second straight game at home behind
29 points from  Russell Westbrook  and 26 from Kevin Durant.  Oklahoma City  hit six straight free throws in the closing
minute and withstood two 3-point attempts by the Mavericks’
Jason Terry in the final four seconds.  Dirk Nowitzki scored 31 points for the Mavericks, who will
host Game 3 on May 3.  The Pacers rebounded from their Game 1 loss at home by
outscoring the Magic 30-13 in the third quarter at Bankers Life
Fieldhouse in Indianapolis.  David West, Danny Granger and George Hill each scored 18
points for the Pacers, while Paul George had 17 points.  Glen Davis  finished with a team-high 18 points for the Magic, who
were held to 35.5 percent shooting and will be at home for the
next two games, including Game 3 tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  