-- Edwards’s Sapien Gains Medicare Coverage for Heart Valve
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-05-01T22:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/edwards-s-sapien-gains-medicare-coverage-for-heart-valve.html
Edwards Lifesciences Corp. (EW) ’s Sapien,
used to replace a damaged aortic valve, will be covered by the
U.S. government’s Medicare program.  The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services said today it
would pay for the surgery to insert the Edwards valve that uses
a catheter to allow doctors to avoid cracking open the chest,
provided at least two cardiac surgeons evaluate the patient and
determine the procedure is appropriate. The transcatheter aortic
valve replacement should be done only by a team of doctors,
including a heart surgeon and an interventional cardiologist,
who perform the procedure at least 20 times a year, the agency
 said  in a statement.  Medicare, the medical program for the elderly and disabled,
also will pay for Sapien in patients who participate in clinical
trials designed to see if the valve improves their health. The
agency’s decision is expected to boost use of the device, which
was approved in November by the Food and Drug Administration as
the first less-invasive  heart valve  in the U.S. Sapien generated
$41 million in U.S. sales in the first quarter for  Irvine ,
California-based Edwards.  The final decision “will help clarify the reimbursement
confusion that has existed since Sapien was launched in the U.S.
last November, which should help accelerate Sapien sales,” said
Larry Biegelsen, an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in  New
York , in a note to investors today before the decision was
released.  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , based in Minneapolis, is developing a
transcatheter aortic valve that is in the final trials needed
for U.S. marketing approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  