-- Egypt’s Moussa Sees Spending Vital to Economic Recovery
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 2012-05-01T12:40:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/egypt-s-moussa-sees-spending-vital-to-economic-recovery.html
Amre Moussa , the front-runner in
 Egypt ’s presidential race, is pledging to boost public spending
in his first year in office to lower the highest unemployment
rate in at least two decades.  Moussa, a former foreign minister and secretary-general of
the  Arab League , would mobilize funds from Arab countries and
international lenders to spend on infrastructure, according to
his manifesto published earlier this month. He also pledges to
restore security to encourage foreign investment, lowering
yields that have surged about 50 percent since last year’s
uprising.  “We will need to pump money into the economy to create
jobs,” Ashraf Sweilam, Moussa’s economic adviser, said in a
telephone interview from Cairo. “We will not increase the
 budget deficit  a lot, especially if we restore security. This
will improve sentiment and help us achieve a growth rate that
counterbalances” the increased spending, he said.  Campaigning for Egypt’s first presidential election since
the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  began yesterday, with polling
stations opening on May 23 and the winning candidate due to take
office by the end of June. The country’s next ruler will inherit
an economy saddled with the lowest growth rate and highest
budget deficit among countries with traded external debt in the
 Middle East , International Monetary Fund data show.  Leading Field  Moussa, who led the field of 13 candidates in an opinion
poll published yesterday by the Al Ahram Center for Political
and Strategic Studies, expects public investments to widen the
budget deficit “slightly” in the first year, said Sweilam.
Cuts in energy subsidies and higher economic growth will help
bring the deficit down to about 4 percent of economic output by
2017, he said. The shortfall was about 10 percent of gross
domestic product last year.  Almost one million people lost their jobs after the
uprising that ended Mubarak’s rule, as tourists shunned the
country and clashes between security forces and pro-democracy
protesters prompted private businesses to curtail investment.
The  unemployment rate  climbed to 12.4 percent,  the highest since
at least 1992 , according to official figures, while gross
domestic product shrank for the first time in decades.  Default Risk  Egypt’s default risk has jumped 299 basis points, or 2.99
percentage points, to 609, placing the country ahead of debt-
stricken Ireland on the list of the world’s 10 riskiest credits,
according to data provider CMA. The economic crisis prompted
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  to lower Egypt’s
credit rating four times to B2 and B respectively, five levels
below investment grade, effectively shutting the country out of
international bond markets.  The risk premium  investors demand to
hold Egypt’s debt instead of U.S. treasuries surged 289 basis
points, or 2.89 percentage points, to 550 on April 30, JPMorgan
Chase & Co. data show.  Moussa has vowed to “immediately employ” his regional and
international contacts to plug a financing gap he estimates is
as much as $12 billion and which may increase, according to his
manifesto. While critics decry his links to the former
government, Moussa’s connections could help him to attract funds
from abroad, said  Alia Mamdouh , an economist at investment bank
CI Capital in Cairo.  Moussa’s reputation as a seasoned statesman could also give
him an edge over opponents such as Islamist candidate Abdel
Moneim Aboul-Fotouh, a former member of the once-banned Muslim
Brotherhood. Aboul-Fotouh polled second in the Al Ahram study
with the backing of 27.3 percent of those surveyed, compared
with Moussa’s 41.1 percent.  Rival Platform  Aboul-Fotouh has released a “preliminary” platform
calling for the use of fiscal policy to “encourage investments
in productive sectors that support employment.” He also pledges
to reduce the budget deficit through raising revenue and not by
introducing austerity measures. Like Moussa, he advocates a
progressive income tax and a capital gains tax.  Samer Atallah, assistant professor of economics at the
American University in Cairo and an adviser to Aboul-Fotouh,
criticized what he said was the “reliance on borrowing” in
Moussa’s plan. “It is the ultimate disease of the Egyptian
economy: continuously relying on foreign borrowing,” he said in
a phone interview.  The current government appointed by the military, which
took interim power from Mubarak, is in talks with the IMF for a
$3.2 billion loan as foreign reserves  plunged  more than 50
percent to $15.1 billion in March. The terms of a possible
agreement and dates of disbursement remain unclear. The military
initially vetoed the loan and subsequent negotiations have been
delayed by disagreements between the government and parliament.  New Constitution  With political wrangling also delaying the writing of a new
constitution, the powers of the next president remain unclear.
Disenchanted by Mubarak’s accumulation of powers, many activists
have called for a system that boosts parliamentary authority at
the expense of the head of state. The  Muslim Brotherhood ’s
Freedom and Justice Party makes up the largest bloc in
parliament, followed by the Salafist al-Nour party.  While Mubarak “had full power and support from parliament,
Moussa would have to deal with the Muslim Brotherhood and
Salafists to reach a compromise agreement” on issues such as
foreign loans and investment, said Sergey Dergachev, who helps
manage $8.5 billion of emerging-market assets at Union
Investment Privatfonds in  Frankfurt .  Any foreign loan would probably come with “irreversible”
conditions such as currency devaluation, said Dergachev, who
used to invest in Egyptian treasury bills before the uprising.  Currency Devaluation  “If Egyptian authorities want to have support from the
IMF, a devaluation of 15 percent to 20 percent, in my view, will
be a crucial condition,” he said. The pound, which is subject
to a managed float, has weakened 3.9 percent since the start of
last year. Forward contracts show investors expect the currency
to weaken about 18 percent in a year.  Moussa’s campaign plays down the need for an immediate
devaluation. “If we manage to get a successful program under
implementation during the first 100 days and the first year,
then there might not be a need for devaluation, especially as
the only value for devaluation is to increase Egyptian exports”
said Sweilam. “If we did not succeed, there is no value for
devaluation. On the contrary, it increases our financial
burden.”  Egypt’s trade deficit widened 7.6 percent in the six months
through December to $15.6 billion, according to central bank
data. The country is the world’s biggest importer of wheat and
subsidizes energy products such as fuel, diesel and butane gas.  External Support  “In the short term, Egypt will be better placed to solicit
external support, which will result in hard-currency inflows and
will also help anchor investor expectations,” said Raza Agha,
London-based senior economist at the Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc.  “Egypt must reduce the size of its deficit by cutting
subsidies, reducing the size of the public sector workforce, and
through better debt management, and in time lower outlays for
debt servicing,” Agha said by e-mail. “There is also a need to
increase the size of the tax base, as many sectors do not
contribute to public revenues as much as they should.”  Moussa’s economic policies won an endorsement from former
Finance Minister  Samir Radwan , who solicited the IMF loan last
year as he tried to boost public investments to resuscitate the
economy. Radwan was replaced in a cabinet reshuffle in July.  “There is high unemployment and the private sector is
suffering, so public policy should step in,” Radwan said by
phone April 19. “What I like about the program is the speedy
response to people’s problems in the first stage. In the second
stage, it lays the foundation for long-term growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 