-- Einhorn Says Fed Rate Stance ‘No Longer Useful,’ Risks Inflation
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-05-01T15:56:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/einhorn-says-fed-rate-stance-no-longer-useful-risks-inflation.html
Hedge-fund manager  David Einhorn  said
Federal Reserve policy intended to stimulate the economy and
create jobs is “no longer useful” because it risks inflation.  Investors including Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
 Bill Gross  have said Fed policy makers may be adding the risk of
future economic disruption. The central bank has kept  interest
rates  near zero since late 2008.  Einhorn, whose hedge fund can bet on the rise or fall in
equity prices, has been adjusting investments he oversees for
 Greenlight Capital Re Ltd. (GLRE) , the Cayman Islands-based reinsurer
where he is chairman. He boosted bullish bets in stocks last
month as corporate profits improved and beat earnings
expectations, he said on a conference call with investors today.  “This enthusiasm is tempered by our continued concern
about the structural sovereign-debt problems in Europe and
 Japan , a slowing Chinese economy, and high  oil prices  and
general inflation connected to the Fed’s continued insistence on
maintaining an emergency zero percent interest-rate policy,
which we believe is no longer useful or effective,” Einhorn
said on the call.  Fed policymakers, led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ,
reiterated their view April 25 that conditions may warrant
“exceptionally low levels” for rates through at least late
2014. The central bank has kept its target federal funds rate
between zero and  0.25 percent  since December 2008.  Investment Portfolio  Greenlight Re’s investment portfolio returned 6.5 percent
in the first quarter, compared with a 3.4 percent loss in the
year-earlier period, according to a statement from the
reinsurer. The portfolio’s net-long position rose to 39 percent
in April from 32 percent at the end of March, Einhorn said on
the call. The hedge fund manager added short bets, in which he
wagers that securities will decline, in the first three months
of the year as the market rallied.  The reinsurer posted net income of $65.1 million in the
first quarter, compared with a net loss of $43 million a year
earlier, according to the statement.  Gross, who oversees the world’s largest bond fund, said in
a monthly investment outlook posted on  Newport Beach ,
California-based Pimco’s website today that Fed policies
including debt purchases will cause “gradually higher rates of
inflation.”  The “acceleration of credit via central bank policies will
likely produce a positive rate of real economic growth this year
for most developed countries, but the structural distortions
brought about by zero-bound interest rates will limit the
growth,” Gross wrote.  Einhorn and his hedge fund Greenlight Capital Inc. are
known for shorting Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. before it
collapsed in September 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  