-- Engle Joins Krugman Suggesting Higher Inflation for U.S.
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-05-01T16:22:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/engle-joins-krugman-suggesting-higher-inflation-for-u-s-.html
New York  University professor Robert Engle said policy makers should consider allowing slightly
higher inflation as a way to spur the  U.S. economy , joining
fellow  Nobel Prize  winner  Paul Krugman  who says it could reduce
unemployment.  “A little bit of inflation would do a whole lot of good
for the U.S. economy, would certainly do a lot of good for the
housing market,” Engle, who won the Nobel Prize in economics in
2003, said at the Bloomberg Washington Summit hosted by
Bloomberg Link today. “If we had just a little bit of inflation
and house prices went up, all the sudden they’d be above the
mortgages.”  Krugman’s suggestion that the  Federal Reserve  tolerate
inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent to boost the economy has
been rejected by Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who said such a
policy would be “reckless.”  The Bernanke-Krugman debate started with Krugman’s April 24
article in the New York Times Magazine, titled “Earth to
Bernanke.” In it, Krugman, who won the Nobel Prize in 2008,
argued that allowing a more rapid increase in consumer prices
would align with Bernanke’s comment in 2000 that the  Bank of
Japan  should pursue faster inflation to escape deflation.  While recognizing its potential cost, Engle said slightly
higher inflation may be the easiest way to help the U.S. economy
as other proposals meet resistance from polarized political
parties.  Housing Remains Depressed  An improving labor market and  mortgage rates  near historic
lows are helping to stabilize housing. At the same time, the
industry remains depressed by foreclosures, which are hurting
property values, and stricter lending rules.  The problem with faster inflation, which some governments
have historically used alongside other measures to reduce large
debt loans, is that it’s an “opaque tax” that policy makers
tend to “overdo,” said  Vincent Reinhart , chief U.S. economist
at Morgan Stanley, who also spoke on the panel, along with
Daniel Yergin, chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research
Associates.  “It worked in the 50s and 60s because there was a little
bit of inflation, it didn’t work in the 70s because if it’s too
much then you wind up eroding the controls and making everything
worse,” Reinhart, who was the Fed’s director of monetary
affairs from 2001 to 2007, said at the summit.  Engle, a professor of management at NYU’s Stern School of
Business, said higher inflation would also help  Europe , where
some countries such as Spain face recession while implementing
austerity policies to stem a sovereign debt crisis.  “We as a global society may need to rethink our hatred of
inflation,” he said. “Our notion of what these inflation
targets are should be revised.”  The Fed in January set a 2 percent inflation goal, joining
at least 12 other central banks in specifying a target and
concluding years of debate that Bernanke advanced after becoming
chairman in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  