-- Tennis Racket Maker Prince Sports Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-05-01T14:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/tennis-racket-maker-prince-sports-files-for-bankruptcy-2-.html
Prince Sports Inc.  sought  bankruptcy
protection  citing as much as $100 million each in assets and
debts, and the maker of the first oversize tennis racket plans
to change its business model to become more competitive.  Among the largest unsecured creditors listed in the
Bordentown, New Jersey-based company’s Chapter 11 documents
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware,
were Da Sheng International Holding Ltd. of Taiwan and Pais
International Ltd. and Marshal Industrial Corp., both of  Hong
Kong , each owed more than $1.9 million in trade debt.  Declining demand “combined with increased competition over
the past five years” and a drop in “consumer discretionary
spending” led to the bankruptcy, said Gordon Boggis, chief
executive officer, in court papers. The company plans to cancel
secured debt in exchange for new equity as part of its
reorganization plan.  Prince, whose rackets were used by major champions
including  Jimmy Connors  and Martina Navratilova, was founded in
1970 when Bob McClure invented the “Little Prince,” the first
ball machine for home court use, in his garage in Princeton,  New
Jersey . In 1976, the company changed the sport by inventing the
first oversize racket. The “Prince Classic” measured 110
square inches, had a much bigger “sweet spot” than traditional
wooden rackets and became one of the best-selling rackets of all
time.  In 1977, Prince produced the first graphite racket, which
is still being used by professionals including doubles major
champions Mike and Bob Bryan of the U.S. and former world No. 1
Jelena Jankovic of Serbia.  Sharapova Switch  Prince, the exclusive licensee of the All England Club for
Wimbledon-branded rackets, racket bags and accessories, was
bought in 2007 by Providence, Rhode Island-based buyout fund
Nautic Partners LLC.  In December 2010, former Wimbledon champion  Maria Sharapova 
ended her 10-year sponsorship agreement with Prince. The
Russian, who won all her three major titles with the company’s
rackets, moved to Head NV a year later.  Prince today said its subsidiaries outside the U.S.,
including those based in  Europe , Taiwan and  China , are not
subject to the proceedings and “are expected to operate in
ordinary course.”  The case is In re Prince Sports Inc., 12-BK-11439, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ; Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  