-- Ernst Greene Leads Trio for Head-Bobbing Session: Music
-- B y   J a i m e   W i d d e r
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ernst-greene-leads-trio-for-head-bobbing-session-music.html
On April 23, a chilly Monday night,
 Georgia ’s Ernest Greene, better known as Washed Out, brought his
brand of synth-pop music to the stylish sold-out crowd at the 
Music Hall of Williamsburg .  LED pole lights flickered behind Greene and his trio as the
opening synthesizer notes of “Echoes” pumped through the
speakers. A drum machine kept the pulse while chilled vocals
soothed on this dark, pulsating number.  Next they broke out the big beats of “Get Up.” It’s a
track from Greene’s 2009 debut EP, “Life of Leisure,” which he
recorded by himself in the bedroom of his family home in rural
Georgia.  On this night, it had a much grander feel. The choppy beats
and sexy pre-recorded vocals set the crowd bouncing in the early
stages of hypnosis.  The bass started “Far Away.” Greene slouched over his
keyboards, iPad and other machines as he quietly sang the vocals
atop a trickling beat. The parts were minimal but the simplicity
was well-suited for this tepid dance track.  “It’s weird playing in front of a full house,” Greene
said on the heels of his second sold-out  New York  show in as
many days. The crowds owe much to the release of his excellent
and compelling debut album, “Within and Without.”  “Before” kept heads bopping with a mix of drawn-out
notes, sluggish vocals and a slow, consistent beat. “Soft”
brought on a dreamlike trance through ethereal vocals blended
with a simple bass line and tapping of cymbals.  ‘Portlandia’  For the night’s most popular number, “Feel It All
Around,” a tune that serves as the intro to IFC’s popular
comedy television show “Portlandia,” Greene invited
Memoryhouse guitarist Evan Abeele onstage. The lush, slow-moving
number was greeted with heavy cheers as Abeele’s guitar kicked
out feedback. The group wrapped up the set with a change of pace
in the dance-heavy “Amor Fati.”  The encore offered old and new material. “Hold Out,” from
the EP, had a stoned dance-hall feel melding swirling notes and
Greene’s muffled vocals. Moving from his keys to the front of
the stage, Greene clapped along with us one last time for “Eyes
Be Closed.” One of Washed Out’s best new songs, it builds in
layers as it makes its way from a crawl to a walk to a run.  This month  Brooklyn  plays host to two music festivals. The
first is curated by Bryce and Aaron Dessner of Brooklyn’s the
National. They’ll use various spaces at the Brooklyn Academy of
Music for Crossing Brooklyn Ferry. Taking place May 3-5, the
festival will be headlined by the Walkmen,  St. Vincent  and
 Beirut . Three-day passes are sold out, yet single-day tickets
are available for May 3rd and 4th.  GoogaMooga  Next we have The Great GoogaMooga Festival taking place in
Brooklyn’s Prospect Park on May 19th and 20th. Superfly -- the
folks that put together Bonnaroo, Outside Lands and Jazzfest --
have organized “an amusement park of food and drink” with 75
food vendors, 35 brewers, 30 wine makers and 20 music
performances. May 19th will be headlined by the Roots and May
20th by Darryl Hall & John Oates. Free tickets have been
distributed, but “Extra Mooga” passes remain on sale.  Here’s a selection of New York-area shows in May. Please
note that opening bands aren’t always listed. Shows marked (SO)
are sold out, although online services such as Craigslist often
have tickets.  (Jaime Widder works in sales for Bloomberg News. Any
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Katya Kazakina on the  art market .  To contact the writer on this story:
Jaime Widder in New York at 
 jwidder@bloomberg.net  or @Widder_Twidder.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 