-- Etihad Takes Aer Lingus Stake, Seeks Pact to Feed Abu Dhabi
-- B y   C o r m a c   M u l l e n   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-05-01T07:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/etihad-takes-aer-lingus-stake-seeks-pact-to-feed-abu-dhabi-1-.html
Etihad Airways , the  Middle East ’s
third-largest carrier, took a stake in Ireland’s  Aer Lingus
Group Plc (AERL)  as it extends a strategy of investing in European
operators to help feed passengers via its hub in Abu Dhabi.  Etihad has built up a 2.99 percent holding in Aer Lingus,
the Dublin-based company said today, helping to boost its stock
as much as 6.2 percent, the most in 11 weeks. The stake could be
increased should the pair reach an agreement on an alliance.  “Aer Lingus and Etihad are engaged in discussions which to
date have focused on reciprocal code-share opportunities,” Aer
Lingus said in a statement. “Future discussions may explore
additional commercial and cost opportunities to develop a closer
working relationship in areas such as joint procurement.”  Ireland’s government said Feb. 9 that there had been
“strong interest” in its 25 percent holding in Aer Lingus and
that all approaches would be considered in the event of a
decision to sell. Etihad Chief Executive Officer  James Hogan 
said the same day he was looking at the Irish carrier after
spending $350 million in equity financing and funds for planes
to take a 29.2 percent holding in  Germany ’s  Air Berlin Plc. (AB1)   ‘At the Table’  Etihad’s investment in Aer Lingus reflects its desire to
forge a “commercial partnership” that would be beneficial to
both carriers, the Gulf company said in an e-mailed statement.  “This suggests that Etihad will be at the table when Aer
Lingus is put up for sale,” said  Joe Gill , an analyst at Bloxham
Stockbrokers in Dublin, adding that the state will probably
dispose of its holding in the next six to 12 months.  CEO Hogan has said that he views signing deals and taking
stakes in smaller operators in key markets as a vital complement
to spending money on planes as he builds  Abu Dhabi  into a hub
for inter-continental travel. Dubai-based Emirates, the largest
international airline, has nine codeshare accords and no foreign
holdings, while Etihad had 35 partners as of March 5.  Aer Lingus said in its statement today that negotiations
with Etihad are a natural progression from its Greenfield cost-
reduction program, introduced in 2009, which was forecast to
save 80 million euros ($106 million) last year.  Etihad has told Aer Lingus that after taking the initial
holding it “does not intend to increase this stake, pending the
outcome of the discussions,” the statement said, adding that
there can be no certainty as to the outcome of the talks.  Aer Lingus shares  advanced as much as 6 cents and were
trading 3.5 cents higher at 1.01 euros as of 8:15 a.m. in
Dublin, a gain of 3.6 percent. The stock has advanced 59 percent
this year, valuing the company at 535 million euros.  Etihad said it couldn’t immediately comment on Aer Lingus’s
statement, which followed reports of an investment by the Gulf
carrier in today’s Irish Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cormac Mullen in Dublin at 
 cmullen9@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Ludden at   jludden@bloomberg.net  