-- Europe Puts at Record Versus S&P 500 Before Elections: Options
-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-05-01T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/europe-puts-at-record-versus-s-p-500-before-elections-options.html
Traders have never paid so much to
protect against European stock losses relative to the U.S. as
investors prepare for weekend elections in  France  and  Greece .  Implied volatility for three-month  contracts  closest to the
level of the  Euro Stoxx 50 (SX5E)  Index was 54 percent higher yesterday
than the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The gap widened from a 2012 low of 18 percent on
March 13, the data show.  Investors are insuring equities on concern the elections
will undermine plans to contain the debt crisis. French voters
pick a president on May 6, the same day as Greece holds
parliamentary elections.  Francois Hollande , who topped  Nicolas Sarkozy  in the first round of French voting, has criticized the
president’s attempt with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
quell the crisis through budget cuts. Economists say Europe’s
economy is contracting, while U.S. data recover.  “There’s this growing contrast between the United States
economically and the euro zone,” James Butterfill, who helps
oversee about 40 billion pounds ($64.9 billion) as a global
equity strategist at Coutts & Co. in  London , said in a phone
interview yesterday. The elections add “a lot of uncertainty,”
he said. “If Hollande gets in power, then what will the
relationship be like between Merkel and Hollande? It probably
won’t be as cozy as it was between Sarkozy and Merkel.”  The Euro Stoxx 50, which tracks the performance of the
biggest companies in European nations using the shared currency,
has lost 0.4 percent this year. The  S&P 500 (SPX)  is up 12 percent and
on April 2 touched its highest level since May 2008. The
benchmark measure for U.S. equities  advanced  0.6 percent
yesterday after manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in
almost a year.  European Agreement  The Euro Stoxx 50  surged  25 percent between Nov. 24 and
March 19 as Sarkozy and Merkel helped lead European leaders to
agree on a fiscal pact aimed at ending the debt crisis by
enforcing budget discipline. The  European Central Bank  also
provided emergency loans to banks.  The European stocks gauge fell 12 percent since its more
than seven-month high on March 19 as yields on Spanish and
Italian bonds jumped and investors paid record prices to insure
against a Spanish default. The Stoxx 50 sank 2.9 percent to a
four-month low and equity indexes for eight western European
nations lost at least 2.5 percent on April 23 as the backlash
against budget cuts gained momentum and Dutch Prime Minister
Mark Rutte offered his cabinet’s resignation.  Ahead in Polls  French Socialist presidential candidate Hollande escalated
criticism of Europe’s debt-crisis response this week, pushing
back against Merkel’s focus on deficit reduction. Hollande has
consistently been ahead in the polls before the second and final
vote on May 6. He led 54 percent to 46 percent in an Ifop poll
released yesterday.  In Greece, the last polls before a two-week ban on voter
sentiment readings showed no party has a mandate to enforce the
austerity policies the nation needs to stay in the euro zone.  “The elections are going to test the resolve of Europe to
deal with their issues,”  John Manley , the New York-based chief
equity strategist for Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, said
yesterday in a phone interview. His firm oversees $213 billion.
“There’s going to be a lot of negotiating going back and forth,
a lot of give and take.”  ‘Exceptional’ Businesses  The uncertainty over European elections may lead investors
to undervalue some European stocks, which will benefit from
stronger global growth and a weak euro, according to George Godber at  Charles Stanley  & Co.’s Matterley division in London.  “It’s wrong to look at Europe in isolation because it is
quite clearly not a single economic unit,” Godber, who helps
oversee $160 million at Charles Stanley, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “There are some exceptional multinational
businesses listed in France, Spain, Italy,” he said. “The
prospects for those companies do not reflect the underlying
domestic economy at all.”  The DAX Index has surged 15 percent in 2012, and German
stocks account for the five  largest advances  in the Euro Stoxx
50 this year.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG of Munich rose the most,
rallying 39 percent as the world’s largest maker of  luxury
vehicles  set a first-quarter sales record amid gains in  emerging
markets .  SAP AG (SAP)  of Walldorf,  Germany , increased 23 percent. The
biggest maker of business management software said a “very
solid pipeline” of new deals will help meet growth targets as
demand picks up for mobile programs and software to process
large amounts of data.  Economies Diverge  The elections come as economists project that gross
domestic product in the euro zone will contract 0.4 percent in
2012, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.
The  U.S. economy  is forecast to expand 2.3 percent.  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in April at the
fastest pace in 10 months, according to the Institute for Supply
Management’s factory index yesterday. Unemployment in the 17-
nation euro area probably rose to 10.9 percent in March from
10.8 percent in the previous month, a Bloomberg survey shows.
The European Union’s statistics office will release the report
today.  Implied volatility  for the Euro Stoxx 50 rose 29 percent
since its March 13 low for the year to 23.98 yesterday,
according to data on three-month options compiled by Bloomberg.
Bets on future price swings in the  S&P 500  fell 3 percent during
the same period to 15.2 yesterday.  VStoxx, VIX  The  VStoxx Index (V2X) , the European gauge that’s comparable to
the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, reached its
highest level since May 2003 on April 26 relative to the U.S.
index known as the VIX, the data show.  Since April 23, Euro Stoxx 50 July 2,200 puts, which are
priced 4.6 percent below the index’s closing level yesterday,
had the biggest increase in ownership, followed by December
2,300 puts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. December
2,000 puts and December 2,100 puts had the biggest  open interest 
among all of the index’s options.  “Nobody knows what’s going to happen,” Simon Gleadall,
chief executive officer of Volcube Ltd., an options education,
research and technology company in London, said in a phone
interview yesterday. “There’s so much uncertainty, and the
uncertainty is so much higher in  Europe  than it is in the U.S.
There’s a fear that something terrible might happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  