-- Facebook Urges Members to Share Organ Donor Status
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-01T19:48:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/facebook-urges-members-to-share-organ-donor-status.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  Chief Executive Officer
 Mark Zuckerberg  is urging members of the world’s biggest social
network to share their organ-donor status on the site, aiming to
spur more donations and ease wait times for transplants.  Starting today, users can add donor plans to their profile,
just like they already note a hometown or alma mater, Zuckerberg
and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said on
a  blog  post. There will also be a link to the official donor
registry, the  Menlo Park , California-based company said.  More than 114,000 people in the U.S. and millions more
worldwide are waiting for life-saving heart, liver or kidney
transplants, Facebook said. Many of them -- 18 a day on average
-- die because there aren’t enough organs for transplant.  “Medical experts believe that broader awareness about
organ donation could go a long way toward solving this crisis,”
Zuckerberg and Sandberg said on the blog. “By simply telling
people that you’re an organ donor, the power of sharing and
connection can play an important role.”  Facebook today added the ability to update a health and
wellness section on profiles with organ-donor status. That
medical section, debuted earlier this year when Facebook
introduced a new timeline format, also lets users add
information about illness,  weight loss , broken bones, and
efforts to quit unhealthy habits.  Medical Privacy  The donor addition rekindles privacy concerns because
medical information on Facebook isn’t protected by U.S. laws
requiring doctors, educators and insurers to keep such personal
data confidential, said  Deven McGraw , director of the Health
Privacy Project at the Center for Democracy and Technology in
 Washington .  “Consumers need to be hyper-aware about managing their own
privacy for this information, as it can be used against them,”
McGraw said. “The sensitivity of health information underscores
the need for there to be some baseline regulations on privacy
protection to guard people.”  Andrew Noyes, a spokesman for Facebook, said anything in
the “life events” area can’t be targeted by advertisers.  The company last month said it would let its 901 million
users see more of their own personal data that it gathers as
they navigate the site, a move that could give consumers more
control over how that information is used. Facebook and Google
Inc. are among companies facing scrutiny over their handling of
consumer data. The Obama administration is pushing Congress to
enact a privacy bill of rights giving individuals more control
of their personal information online.  U.S. Organ Registries  U.S. organ donations are state-regulated, and sharing plans
to become a donor on Facebook probably would not be legally
binding, said  Richard Durbin , director of the division of
transplantation at the Health Resources and Services
Administration, part of the  U.S. Department of Health  and Human
Services.  To make donor intentions legally enforceable, people need
to enroll in official  registries , Durbin said. Facebook links to
these registries on its site.  While Facebook’s push will probably boost awareness, it
probably won’t be enough to eradicate the shortage of transplant
organs, Durbin said. Each year, only 10,000 deaths in the U.S.
result in organs that can be used for transplant, he said.  “Even if everybody eligible to be an organ donor became an
organ donor it would not satisfy the need,” Durbin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net 
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  