-- Fed Said to Criticize Banks on Risk Models in Stress Test
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-05-01T14:21:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/fed-said-to-criticize-banks-on-risk-models-in-stress-test.html
The  Federal Reserve  criticized how
some of the 19 largest U.S. banks calculated potential losses
and planned dividends in this year’s stress tests, people with
knowledge of the process said.  The critiques will be part of feedback letters sent to the
lenders this week that cover everything from data collection to
risk measurement, said three of the people, who declined to be
identified because communications with the Fed are private.
Flaws included marking down all  housing prices  at the same rate,
rather than matching them to specific regions, and planning
 dividends  that could drain needed capital.  “A 20 percent decline in national  house prices  would mean
that prices would decline substantially more in some markets and
less in others,”  Daniel Tarullo , the Fed governor in charge of
supervision, told a Chicago banking conference on April 10.
“The result would be higher overall losses than if prices had
declined by a uniform 20 percent everywhere.”  The letters arrive as tensions mount between the largest
banks and the Fed over how new rules to make the financial
system safer will be carried out. Bankers have complained the
stress tests completed in March lack transparency and
underestimate their underwriting abilities, resulting in higher
losses on some asset classes than the lenders projected.  Detailed Feedback  “We strongly urge the Federal Reserve to provide detailed
explanations of methodologies, models, techniques and underlying
assumptions,” five banking trade groups led by the Clearing
House Association said in an April 27 letter to the Fed. “It is
simply unfair to ask a bank to pass a test -- and manage toward
the standards of that test -- if the parameters are largely
unknown.”  The Fed critiques are the most detailed feedback the banks
have received on their 2012  stress-test  submissions. Among the
models singled out for criticism are those that showed
progressive instead of abrupt leaps in credit losses in the
stress scenario as  unemployment  rose and the economy shrank.  The central bank developed the stress tests during the
depths of the financial crisis as Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
sought to gauge the strength of the banking system, and
lawmakers have made them an annual requirement for the biggest
lenders. Regulators have said they want banks to manage their
capital to limit the risk of future taxpayer bailouts.  The Fed probably will push back when banks’ dividend payout
plans exceed what’s feasible under the companies’ own projected
losses as it may indicate a break in communication between risk
managers and boards.  Citigroup Rejected  “Significant deficiencies in the capital-planning
process” may result in a bank failing the test, Tarullo said
last month.  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, had
its capital plan rejected in the March tests. Chief Executive
Officer  Vikram Pandit  had told investors he was ready this year
to return capital, which typically involves higher dividends or
buying back shares. Pandit said April 16 the New York-based
company expected more information from the Fed and must submit a
revised plan by mid-June.  “The process wasn’t perfect,” said Scott Talbott, senior
vice president for government affairs at the Financial Services
Roundtable, whose members include  Bank of America Corp. , BB&T
Corp., and  State Street Corp. (STT)  “We will continue to work with
the Fed as both the regulator and the banks find ways to
strengthen the process.”  Judicious Decisions  Tarullo will meet with bankers and address their complaints
tomorrow in  New York , where he’s scheduled to speak at the
 Council on Foreign Relations .  Barbara Hagenbaugh , a Fed
spokeswoman, declined to comment on the meeting.  Tarullo said he views the stress test as evolving, and
seeks ways to give a better sense of how the Fed’s models work,
without allowing banks to copy them. The concern is that if the
models become public, boards and managers will neglect to truly
examine the risks they’re taking. Instead, the Fed wants
financial firms to develop their own methods and make judicious
decisions with capital.  That didn’t always happen. The 19 largest lenders paid out
more than $43 billion in dividends in 2007 on the eve of the
 subprime-mortgage meltdown  and an additional $39 billion in
2008, the Fed’s former top regulatory director,  Patrick Parkinson , said last year.  Capital Planning  Part of the stress test now involves capital planning where
bank boards are asked to determine how much cash they can afford
to use for stock buybacks or pay to shareholders in dividends in
the future while staying above regulatory minimum capital
requirements in a severe recession.  The 2012 stress test was the third since 2009 and the most
severe yet. Portfolios were subjected to a scenario that
included U.S. unemployment at 13 percent, a 50 percent drop in
 stock prices , and a 21 percent decline in housing prices.
Fifteen of 19 U.S. banks tested maintained  capital ratios  above
four separate regulatory minimum levels even after proposed
capital actions such as dividend payments.  The results exceeded Fed officials’ rough estimates of how
much capital financial firms had accumulated over the past year,
and in some ways proved the value of the capital-planning
discipline that is now conducted annually. The Fed assigned
about 200 people to the exercise and the data request from the
banks was one of the largest ever. Lenders probably will have to
give the Fed even more next year.  James Abbott, senior vice president in charge of  investor
relations  at Salt Lake City-based  Zions Bancorporation (ZION) , said the
tests could crimp lending.  ‘Economic Weakness’  “Certain loans are inherently more susceptible to economic
weakness,” Abbott said. If these loans end up reducing benefits
to shareholders because of a stress test, then “we have to be
very, very careful of what specific types of loans we make.”  Zions, which had $53 billion in  total assets  at the end of
the first quarter, was part of a second set of 11 banks that
conducted their own stress tests and had their results reviewed
by the Fed.  “Right now, we have a startup issue,” said Jeffrey Brown,
a managing director at Promontory Financial Group in  Washington ,
which consults with lenders on capital planning. The Fed is
developing and applying a program at the same time, so there’s
bound to be friction, he said.  The Fed “should be trying to get to the fair answer” on
risk and explain why their models diverge from the banks, said
Brown, a former head of risk analysis at the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency.  Effect on Markets  Separately,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  said a Fed proposal to cut
risk by capping a bank’s dealings with any one lender,
corporation or foreign government fails to strike the “correct
balance” and may harm financial markets.  The plan “could destabilize markets,” Barry Zubrow,
executive vice president of corporate and regulatory affairs for
JPMorgan, said yesterday in a comment letter to the central
bank. The Fed is reaching “well beyond” the Dodd-Frank
financial-reform legislation with “disruptive” standards that
duplicate or conflict with other rules and directives, he wrote.  Lenders including New York-based JPMorgan, the largest and
most profitable U.S. bank, are resisting Fed efforts to impose
tougher restrictions on too-big-to-fail firms whose collapse
could hurt the broader economy. Concentration of risk in
derivatives was blamed in part for the banking system’s near-
collapse in 2008 by the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission’s
January 2011 report.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  