-- Finra Fines Wells Fargo, Three Others Over ETF Sales
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-01T20:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/finra-fines-citigroup-morgan-stanley-over-leveraged-etf-sales.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , Morgan Stanley,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  agreed to pay a combined $9.1 million to
settle regulatory claims they failed to adequately supervise the
sale of leveraged and inverse exchange-traded funds in 2008 and
2009.  The firms also didn’t have a reasonable basis for
recommending the securities to their clients, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority said today in a statement. They
will pay fines of about $7.3 million and reimburse $1.8 million
to customers.  “The added complexity of leveraged and inverse exchange-
traded products makes it essential that brokerage firms have an
adequate understanding of the products and sufficiently train
their sales force before the products are offered to retail
customers,” Brad Bennett, Finra’s chief of enforcement, said in
the statement.  Finra warned brokers in June 2009 that leveraged and
inverse ETFs were difficult to understand and not a good fit for
long-term investors. ETFs typically track indexes and trade
throughout the day on an exchange like stocks. Leveraged
versions use swaps or derivatives to amplify daily index
returns, while the inverse funds are designed to move in the
opposite direction of their benchmark.  Because gains or losses in the funds are compounded daily,
returns over more than one day can differ from returns implied
by the underlying index.  Sales Cease  UBS suspended its sales of leveraged and inverse ETFs
following the Finra warning, the company said in a July 2009
statement. It has resumed selling them and no longer recommends
them to clients,  Karina Byrne , a spokeswoman, said.  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  said the following month it would restrict its sales.  Wells Fargo continues to sell leveraged and inverse ETFs.
Tony Mattera, a company spokesman, said the firm had “enhanced
its policies and procedures” to meet regulatory
responsibilities.  Citigroup spokeswoman Liz Fogarty said the firm has since
2009 enhanced training, policies and procedures in connection
with the sale of the products to incorporate Finra’s guidance.  Wells Fargo, based in  San Francisco , was assessed the
highest fine at $2.1 million and must pay $641,489 in
restitution. Citigroup, based in  New York , received a $2 million
fine and must pay $146,431 in restitution; New York-based Morgan
Stanley will pay a $1.75 million fine and $604,584 in
restitution; and Zurich-based UBS will pay a $1.5 million fine
and $431,488 in restitution.  In settling the claims, the firms neither admitted nor
denied the charges, said Washington-based Finra, the brokerage
industry’s self-funded regulator.  Full Cooperation  “Wells Fargo Advisors cooperated fully with Finra
throughout this matter and is pleased to have reached this
settlement,” Mattera said in an e-mailed statement. “Wells
Fargo Advisors has enhanced its policies and procedures and is
confident that it has appropriate supervisory processes and
training to meet our regulatory responsibilities and clients’
investment needs.”  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this Finra matter,”
Byrne said in an e-mailed statement. “More than two years ago,
UBS developed and implemented enhanced training, suitability and
supervisory policies and procedures regarding leveraged,
inverse, and inverse-leveraged ETFs.”  ‘High Standards’  “Morgan Stanley strives for high standards of supervision
and is pleased to settle this matter, which pertains to
investments sold three to four years ago,” James Wiggins, a
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Since 2009, we
substantially limited our sale of these specific types of
investments and enhanced our tools to supervise them.”  “We are pleased to have this matter resolved,”
Citigroup’s Fogarty said in an e-mailed statement.  Finra said each of the four firms sold “billions of
dollars of these ETFs to customers, some of whom held them for
extended periods when the markets were volatile.”  In its warning to brokers, Finra cited the differing
returns of the Dow Jones U.S. Oil & Gas Index, which gained 1.6
percent between Dec. 1 and April 30, and the  ProShares Ultra Oil
& Gas (DUG)  ETF, which seeks to deliver twice the index’s daily
return. The fund fell 5.6 percent, including reinvested
dividends, in the same period.  Leveraged and inverse ETFs in the U.S. hold $29.3 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Bethesda, Maryland-
based ProShare Advisors is the largest provider with about $22.2
billion under management. ETF providers, unlike mutual fund
sponsors, don’t sell shares directly to retail investors.  The fines don’t apply to the sale of exchange-traded notes.
Finra is examining how those securities are being marketed after
a  Credit Suisse AG (CSGN) ’s volatility ETN lost half its value in two
days. ETNs are backed by the issuer’s credit, unlike exchange-
traded funds, which hold assets.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  