-- Five Men Arrested in FBI Sting Over Plot to Bomb Ohio Bridge
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n ,   S e t h   S t e r n   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-05-01T22:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/five-men-arrested-in-fbi-sting-over-plot-to-bomb-bridge-in-ohio.html
Five people “associated with Occupy
 Cleveland ” were arrested in a federal sting operation in which
FBI agents provided fake explosives to suspects allegedly
intending to bomb an Ohio bridge.  Douglas Wright, 26, Brandon Baxter, 20, and Anthony Hayne,
35, described as self-proclaimed anarchists in a Justice
Department statement, were arrested yesterday on charges of
conspiracy and attempted use of explosive materials. Connor
Stevens, 20, and Joshua Stafford, 23, were charged today,
according to court records.  “The individuals charged in this plot were intent on using
violence to express their ideological views,” Stephen D.
Anthony, special agent in charge of  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation’s Cleveland division, said in a Justice Department
statement.  While those arrested were “associated with Occupy
Cleveland, they were in no way representing or acting on
behalf” of the protest movement, according a statement on
Occupy Cleveland’s Facebook page.  “At some point, I think it would be fair to say, all five
had attended events” of Occupy Cleveland Jacob Wagner, an
organizer for the group, said in a telephone interview.  ‘Condemn It’  “Nobody had any idea what they were allegedly doing,”
said Wagner, 26, a law student at  Case Western Reserve
University  in Cleveland. “We clearly don’t condone it. We
condemn it in the strongest possible way.”  The accused men initially considered using smoke grenades
in a plot to topple signs of financial institutions atop high-
rise buildings in downtown Cleveland, prosecutors said in a
criminal complaint unsealed today.  The plan evolved into one requiring placement of C-4
explosives under a bridge that crosses from Brecksville, Ohio,
to Sagamore Hills, Ohio, over the Cuyahoga Valley National Park,
according to the complaint. The explosives were to be remotely
detonated, prosecutors said.  The fake explosives were controlled by an undercover FBI
agent and the public was never in danger, prosecutors said.  The U.S. government has increased its use of alternative
strategies, including stings and informants, to combat home-
grown terrorism since Sept. 11, 2001. Undercover informants
played a key role in alleged plots to bomb  New York  synagogues,
detonate a bomb near  Chicago ’s Wrigley Field, attack a federal
courthouse in  Illinois  and blow up a Dallas skyscraper.  The Informant  In this case, the confidential informant has been working
as a source for the FBI since July. The informant, who has a
criminal record, including convictions for robbery and cocaine
possession, allegedly met Wright at a protest in October. The
FBI Cleveland office sent the informant to the event based on an
initial report of potential criminal activity involving
anarchists, according to an affidavit filed in federal court.  Wright, who wears a Mohawk and goes by the alias Cyco, gave
the informant his phone number and e-mail, and over a series of
meetings between Nov. 15 and Nov. 17 discussed plans to destroy
property. The goal was to “send a message to corporations and
the U.S. government,” according to the affidavit.  Wright and his group’s conspiracy weren’t part of anything
larger, including the  Occupy Wall Street  movement, Vicki
Anderson, a spokeswoman for the FBI in Cleveland, said in a
telephone interview.  No Movement Plot  “This was not an Occupy movement plot,” Anderson said.
“They were individuals that formed their own group to
conspire.”  An undercover agent had infiltrated the group during the
last couple of months and was in control of the situation and
the explosives, Anderson said.  “At no time was the public ever in danger,” she said.  The bridge carries Route 82, a four-lane state highway,
according to the affidavit. It’s a high-level bridge about 400
feet long that stretches over a valley, said Rose Mary Snell, a
Sagamore Hills trustee for 19 years.  A large number of people might have been under the bridge
at the time of an attack because it’s a popular recreation area
with a railroad and trail for hiking and biking running
underneath, Snell said.  “It could have been a real tragedy,” Snell said in a
telephone interview.  Debating Targets  The group was still debating on a target as late as mid-
April, according to the affidavit. The list of possible attacks
included tunnels under Cleveland, the Detroit Superior Bridge,
also known as Veterans Memorial Bridge, a Federal Reserve Bank,
and so-called fusion centers around Cleveland where federal,
state and local jurisdictions share law enforcement resources
and intelligence, according to the affidavit.  The men also discussed using stink bombs, explosives or
paint guns against targets including a hospital or blowing a
hole in a cargo ship traveling on the Cuyahoga River on May 1.
Baxter, who uses the alias Skabby, said in a taped April 10
conversation that he would be rallying on May Day so he could
create a diversion for police, thereby allowing the others to
bomb the river, according to court documents.  Occupy Wall Street demonstrators planned marches across the
globe today calling attention to what they say are abuses of
power and wealth. Calls for a general strike with no work, no
school, no banking and no shopping have sprung up on websites in
hundreds of cities in  North America ,  Europe  and  Asia .  Wright, who eventually purchased eight bricks of C-4 from
an undercover agent last month, and Baxter told the informant
during a meeting at the end of March that blowing up a bank
would cause a lot of financial damage, and the bridge plan would
force the government to put security on every crossing in the
country, according to the affidavit. The men suggested limiting
the number of casualties by stopping traffic on the bridge prior
to blowing it up so people wouldn’t think they were terrorists,
the affidavit said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus,  Ohio , at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  