-- Florida Blocks Contracts With Cuban-Linked Companies
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-05-01T19:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/florida-blocks-contracts-with-cuban-linked-companies.html
Florida  would be banned from approving
contracts of $1 million or more with companies doing business in
Cuba or  Syria  under legislation signed by Republican Governor
 Rick Scott .  Scott, who signed the measure today in Miami, said in
prepared remarks that the ban is aimed at “undeniably
repressive” governments in the two countries. Scott called for
help from President  Barack Obama  in enforcing the law and left
unclear whether the state would police it.  “We must have a federal partner that will permit this law
to become operative,” Scott said in prepared remarks. “I call
on the Obama administration to introduce federal legislation
that would permit Florida to enforce this important law.”  The measure may punish one of  Brazil ’s largest builders,
Odebrecht SA, which is bidding on a proposed $700 million hotel
and retail complex at the Miami airport. A unit of the company
is renovating the Port of Mariel in Cuba.  Odebrecht’s press office didn’t answer calls seeking
comment today in Brazil, where it is a national holiday for
Labor Day.  Under the measure, the state government, along with cities
and counties, would be banned from signing the contracts.  Supreme Court Case  William Reinsch , president of the Washington-based  National
Foreign Trade Council , a business group in  Washington , said the
state can’t enforce the law, citing a U.S. Supreme Court ruling.  The court in 2000 ruled in favor of the NFTC when the group
sued over a Massachusetts law blocking government deals with
companies doing business in  Burma . Reinsch declined to say
whether the group, which opposes trade restrictions, would sue
over the Florida law.  Miami-Dade County Attorney Robert Cuevas cited the NFTC
suit while advising county commissioners last month not to
enforce the law. In his analysis, Cuevas wrote that the
supremacy clause in the U.S. Constitution requires local
governments to follow federal law when it conflicts with state
law.  Brian Burgess, a spokesman for the governor, declined to
comment.  Scott said in the prepared remarks that the law is
“designed to protect Florida taxpayers from unintentionally
supporting dictators.”  “However, we must have a federal partner that will permit
this law to become operative,” Scott said.  Joanna Rosholm, a White House spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Scott signed the legislation in a ceremony at Miami’s
Freedom Tower. The facility was used to document Cuban refugees
in the 1960s and is now a U.S. National Historic Landmark.  Scott lost Miami-Dade County, the state’s most populous
county, in both his primary and general election races in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  