-- Ford Says Future of European Sites Hinges on Length of Slump
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e
-- 2012-05-01T12:03:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ford-says-future-of-european-sites-hinges-on-length-of-slump-1-.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest
U.S. carmaker, said the size of its manufacturing base in  Europe 
will be determined by how long the market there remains subdued.  While Ford needs capacity in hand to tap any rebound, it
has a history of “right-sizing” production and will evaluate the
future of plants should that be necessary, said Stephen Odell,
head of the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s European unit.  Industry-wide auto sales in the region totaled 13.6 million
across 30 countries in 2011, lower than 2007’s pre-slump high of
19 million and shy of a more “normal” figure of 17 million that
Odell reckons may not be reached for another four or five years.
In the near term, Ford will look at taking out more working days
while relying on new models to spur sales, he said.  “It’s my job to be profitable at whatever level the market
is at,” Odell said in an interview in  London . “We’re taking out
temporary workers and cutting hours and we’ll continue to do
that. In terms of capacity, we will watch it. We’ve been pretty
proactive in the past and we’ll have to take a long-term view of
how long the industry bumps along at 14 million units.”  Spain, Germany  European car sales hit a 14-year low in March according to
European Automobile Manufacturers’ Association data, falling 6.6
percent to 1.5 million, as economic growth stalled. Ford said
April 27 that first quarter net income fell 45 percent to $1.4
billion as a pretax loss of $149 million in Europe ate into
earnings of $2.1 billion from  North America .  The company is cutting some working days at its plants in
 Valencia ,  Spain , and Cologne,  Germany , and has also curbed daily
rates at a second German site in Saarlouis. Second-quarter
European production will be 65,000 autos lower than a year
earlier, Odell said, equivalent to a 15 percent reduction.  Ford says that what it defines as the European market will
this year shrink to about 14 million autos, versus 15.3 million
in 2011, of which it expects to win a “broadly flat” 8.3 percent
share. Still, its European operations have been profitable in
six of the past eight years, and decisions on capacity cuts or
re-evaluating plants are “not for the short term,” Odell said.  Demand in Europe, where the company also has plants in
Belgium,  France , Romania,  Russia , Turkey and the U.K., is
suffering as the sovereign-debt crisis and austerity measures
crimp purchases, he said, adding that the full impact of
government spending cuts probably hasn’t been felt yet.  Governments face a tough call in seeking to reduce state
spending while fostering growth, the executive said.  “Austerity is absolutely necessary,” he said. “You can’t
spend more than you earn. But you need some sort of stimulation
in the private sector.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
 Maryam Nemazee  in London at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  