-- Freedom From Gazprom Tempts Ukraine as Exxon Hunts Shale
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-05-01T23:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/freedom-from-gazprom-tempts-ukraine-as-exxon-hunts-shale-energy.html
For the first time in more than two
centuries, Ukraine sees its way to independence from Moscow.  That path tracks through a patch of sealed Soviet-era
natural gas wells that are ready to be tapped once again and
fields of shale rocks that the U.S. Geological Survey estimates
will hold enough gas to fire the eastern European nation for 100 
years or more.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , and 
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  -- three of the world’s four largest  oil companies 
-- bid last week for Ukrainian exploration rights.  “Ukraine is low-hanging fruit,” said Bertrand des Pallieres, chief executive officer of  Cadogan Petroleum Plc (CAD) , a 
London-based oil explorer with interests in 14 Ukrainian fields. 
“Ukraine has well-known basins that have been totally 
undermanaged and underinvested,” he said. “There is a consensus 
in the industry that its potential is great.”  The same technology that unlocked natural gas from shale
rocks and made the U.S. the world’s largest natural gas producer
is being rolled out across eastern  Europe , home to the
continent’s most promising prospects. If drilling succeeds,
Ukraine will be able to lessen its reliance on Russian export
monopoly  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  for its natural gas supply, ending the
economy’s vulnerability to decisions taken in the Kremlin.  The country, part of the Russian empire from the 18th
century and then a Soviet republic until 1991, also has
thousands of conventional natural gas wells, many of which were
sealed and abandoned in the 1970s when the Soviet state decided
to move production to Siberia.  Auction Rights  Ukraine plans to auction the rights to as much as 70
percent of production at the Oleska field in the western part of
the country and the Yuzivska field in the east by May 23. The
areas contain both shale and conventional gas deposits, and the
bidders, which also included  Eni SpA (ENI)  and TNK-BP, each paid
between $1.3 million and $1.9 million to apply for the license,
according to the government. The state also plans to sell two
licenses for gas exploration in the  Black Sea  and another one
inland in the coming weeks.  “Thanks to all the historical activity there is a lot of
available data, as opposed to wildcat exploration,” des
Pallieres said in a telephone interview.  The country has the potential to triple its domestic
production to 60 billion cubic meters a year by 2030 with the
help of international oil companies, he said. That would bring
it up to the level last seen in the 1960s, when it supplied one
third of the  Soviet Union ’s gas needs, and end its dependence on
 Russia .  Gazprom’s Grip  Ukraine is eager to loosen Gazprom’s grip on its economy.
NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, the state monopoly, bought 45 billion
cubic meters of natural gas from Russia last year, paying $13.9
billion, or 8.4 percent of Ukraine’s gross domestic product,
Deputy Finance Minister Anatilyi Myarkovskyi said on March 16.
The country wants to cut the price to $250 per 1,000 cubic
meters from the $416 it paid in the first quarter to trim the
 budget deficit , which reached 4.3 percent of GDP in 2011.  Russia has so far refused to lower the price unless Ukraine
surrenders control over its pipelines, which have carried as
much as 80 percent of gas moving from Siberia westwards to the
European Union. Gazprom has twice in the past six years cut
natural gas deliveries to Ukraine on New Year’s Day because of
pricing disputes. In a further setback, Russia began rerouting
some supplies to Europe through the Nord Stream pipeline in the
 Baltic Sea  and another across Belarus.  Coming Decade  To triple its domestic production to Soviet-era levels,
Ukraine needs to invest as much as $10 billion a year in the
coming decade, des Pallieres has estimated. That will not be
possible without the participation of foreign companies because
Naftogaz is so cash-starved it can barely maintain the current
production levels, said Vitaliy Radchenko, an energy researcher
at  CMS Cameron McKenna  in  Kiev .  “The state companies are almost bankrupt because the state
limits how much they can get for the gas they produce,” he
said. “The private producers won’t be subject to such severe
price limitations.”  Naftogaz reported a loss of 20.6 billion hryvnia ($2.6
billion) last year, the  Finance Ministry  said. President  Viktor Yanukovych  is unlikely to raise household gas prices before the
end of the year as his party faces parliamentary elections in
October.  Red Tape  Up to now most foreign investors have been cautious in
embracing Ukraine. The country’s unstable political climate,
excessive red tape and high corruption levels have kept foreign
business away, Radchenko said.  Recent setbacks in shale-gas exploration in neighboring
 Poland  have also raised questions about the region’s potential.
The Polish government said last month shale-gas reserves may be
lower than previously estimated and drilling a well costs almost
three times as much as in the U.S.  Still, Ukraine’s gas reserves are “enormous” and the
government has made considerable progress in improving the
investor climate, said Ulrich Benterbusch, the director of
Global Energy Dialogue at the  International Energy Agency  who is
drawing a list of energy policy recommendations for the
Ukrainian government.  “For years key policy makers in Ukraine were betting on
the fact that somehow they would get the cheap Russian gas,” he
said. “Now it’s clear that this is over, so that puts a lot of
pressure on the system to change. There is money to be earned
and gas to be found, and not just in small quantities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  