-- Liverpool Slips to First Home Loss Against Fulham Before Final
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-05-02T01:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/fulham-defeats-liverpool-1-0-for-first-ever-win-at-anfield.html
Martin Skrtel ’s own goal gave Fulham
its first win at Anfield as Liverpool slumped to its fourth home
defeat of the Premier League soccer season four days before the
F.A. Cup final.  Liverpool, which rested players including captain  Steven Gerrard  in preparation for the May 5 final against Chelsea,
couldn’t recover last night after Skrtel turned the ball into
his own net in the fifth minute.  “Our attitude wasn’t right, and if you go in with a bad
attitude you’re going to get a bad performance,” Liverpool
manager  Kenny Dalglish , who made nine team changes, told his
club’s website. “I’m culpable as well because I changed the
players to try and give everybody an opportunity to get in the
frame for Saturday.”  Liverpool’s loss allowed Everton, which drew 1-1 at Stoke
in last night’s other game, to move three points clear of its
city rival in seventh place with two games remaining. Everton
has finished above Liverpool only once in the Premier League, in
2004-05.  Fulham’s win, which secured its first sweep of league
victories over Liverpool, lifted it to 49 points in ninth place,
behind Liverpool on goal difference. The Reds last finished
outside the top eight in English soccer’s top division when they
were relegated in 1954.  Everton also benefited from an own goal last night when
 Peter Crouch  deflected Tony Hibbert’s cross past his own
goalkeeper in the 44th minute. Stoke substitute  Cameron Jerome 
scored two minutes after entering the game in the second half to
tie the match at the Britannia Stadium.  The teams occupying positions four to six are in action
tonight as Chelsea hosts Newcastle and fourth-place Tottenham
visits Bolton, which is in the relegation zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  