-- Gasoline Slips on Deal to Keep Pennsylvania Refinery Open
-- B y   M a r i o   P a r k e r
-- 2012-05-01T19:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/gasoline-slips-to-nine-week-low-on-signs-of-slower-growth.html
Gasoline fell as an agreement to keep
a refinery near Philadelphia operating eased concern that supply
shortages will arise.  Prices sank even as crude oil rose after  Delta Air Lines
Inc. (DAL)  subsidiary Monroe Energy LLC agreed to buy the
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  refinery in Trainer,  Pennsylvania . Conoco planned
to shut the 185,000-barrel-a-day plant unless a buyer surfaced
by the end of May.  “Gasoline is a little bit out of sync with the market,”
said Dominick Chirichella, senior partner at the Energy
Management Institute in New York. “The refinery had been priced
into the market as being closed permanently. That sends a
bearish signal.”  Gasoline for June delivery fell 2.75 cents, or 0.9 percent,
to settle at $3.0971 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Gasoline has declined 8.6 percent since March 30,
paring the 2012 gain to 15 percent.  Delta’s purchase of the Trainer plant is the first time an
airline has purchased a refinery, JBC Energy said. Delta plans
to start the facility in the third quarter, the researcher said.  Gasoline surged 26 percent in the first quarter as tension
over  Iran’s nuclear program  boosted Brent oil prices and
refineries serving the U.S. East Coast planned to close. Demand
is near a 10-year seasonal low, Energy Department data show.  Gasoline also slipped after a gauge of British factory
output declined and  China ’s manufacturing expanded less than
forecast, adding to concern that demand would slow. The fuel
pared declines after the Institute for Supply Management’s U.S.
factory index beat expectations.  ‘Very Tentative’  “We have a very tentative global economy,” said Peyton Feltus, president of Randolph Risk Management in  Dallas .
“Demand was already moving down before the price was moving up.
The consumer didn’t need it and now they can’t afford it.”  U.S. drivers bought 8.65 million barrels of gasoline a day
in the week ended April 27, down from 8.69 million the week
before, according to MasterCard’s SpendingPulse report.
Consumption stayed below year-earlier levels for the 35th
consecutive week.  Crude oil for June delivery advanced $1.29, or 1.2 percent,
to $106.16 a barrel in  New York . Prices have climbed 7.4 percent
this year.  Oil rose because of the ISM report and the move higher is
“overdone,” Chirichella said. “Gasoline is probably a more
realistic picture” of the energy complex, he said.  June-delivery heating oil fell 0.71 cent to $3.1771 a
gallon. Prices have increased 8.2 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Parker in Chicago at 
 mparker22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  