-- GE Plots End of $6.4 Billion Financing for Penske Truck
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-05-01T16:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ge-plots-end-of-6-4-billion-financing-for-penske-truck.html
General Electric Co.’s (GE)  finance unit
has bankrolled Penske Truck Leasing Co. for more than 15 years.
That’s about to change.  The joint venture between GE Capital Corp. and companies
controlled by Roger Penske, a member of GE’s  board , plans to
refinance $6.4 billion of borrowings over the next two years. A
$700 million offering last month of unsecured bonds due in June
2019, used to finance an equity infusion, was the first step,
according to a statement this week.  After relying solely on GE Capital for financing since
1996, Penske Truck hired JPMorgan Chase & Co. to arrange a $1
billion loan and plans to tap the corporate  bond market  as
borrowing costs reach record lows. The transactions come as  GE
Capital  shrinks assets after $32 billion of credit losses in the
aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008 collapse.  “This is setting up Penske to be an independent borrower
down the line without GE’s support,” said Hitin Anand, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York . “It’s good from the
standpoint of what GE’s doing for its own shareholders.”  Randolph Ryerson, a spokesman for Reading, Pennsylvania-
based Penske, declined to comment beyond the statement.  GE Capital and LJ VP Holdings LLC, an entity formed earlier
this month as part of a reorganization of the joint venture,
jointly issued the 3.8 percent, senior unsecured bonds. GE
Capital has the option to take over responsibility for making
payments on the debt starting next year, according to the
prospectus.  Refinancing Transaction  Proceeds from the offering will be used to finance an
equity injection by LJ VP into Penske Truck Leasing, the
companies said. The leasing company will use that money to repay
borrowings from GE Capital, Penske said in the statement.  “This is essentially a refinancing transaction, and it
strengthens Penske Truck Leasing by allowing them to take
advantage of a strong market and attractive  interest rates  to
raise third-party debt,”  Russell Wilkerson , a spokesman for
 Stamford , Connecticut-based GE Capital, said in an e-mail.  Moody’s Investors Service gave the debt a rank of Baa3, one
step above junk, and  Standard & Poor’s  gave Penske Truck Leasing
a corporate rating of BBB-, also one level higher than junk. The
April 25 bond sale was designed to help Penske Truck Leasing
obtain investment-grade credit ratings, the company said in the
prospectus.  “These strong credit ratings will allow us to consider
additional diversified sources of capital in the financial
markets,” Brian Hard, chief executive officer of Penske Truck
Leasing, said in the statement.  Repaying GE Capital  The venture may also turn to asset-backed debt secured by
its vehicles and leases as it seeks to “repay in full our debt
to GE Capital as soon as reasonably practicable,” it said in
the prospectus. It plans to end borrowing under its loan
agreement with GE Capital.  Founded in  1969 , Penske Truck Leasing manages a fleet of
about 209,700 trucks, tractors and trailers, according to the
prospectus. Leasing, rentals and maintenance accounted for 79
percent of the company’s $3.83 billion of operating revenue last
year, with its logistics operation providing the rest.  GE Capital has cut its ownership share of Penske Truck
Leasing to 49.9 percent from 79 percent in 2006, according to
the prospectus. The stake was valued at  $889 million  as of Dec.
31, the company said in its annual report. Penske Corp. and
Penske Automotive own the remaining 50.1 percent.  Penske Truck Earnings  GE Capital and Penske amended the agreement governing the
joint venture to allow either company to require it to pursue an
initial public offering any time after Dec. 31, 2017, according
to the prospectus. They also extended the term of the
partnership until 2023, according to the statement.  Penske Truck Leasing earned $238.9 million in profit last
year while paying $233.5 million in interest on its borrowings,
it said in the prospectus. It distributed half its 2011 net
income to its owners last month.  Roger Penske, CEO of Penske Corp. and  Penske Automotive
Group Inc. (PAG) , has been a member of GE’s board since 1994. He was
re-elected at GE’s  annual meeting  last week, backed by 87
percent of voting shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  