-- Geisinger Using Patient Database to Assess Fracking Harm
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-05-01T18:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/geisinger-health-using-patient-database-to-assess-fracking-harm.html
Geisinger Health System , a nonprofit
chain of hospitals in eastern  Pennsylvania , plans to use its
database of patient records to determine whether natural gas
drilling in the state’s Marcellus shale is harming residents.  The hospital system began planning the project last year
and started mining hundreds of thousands of medical records in
recent weeks,  David Carey , the director of Geisinger’s Weis
Center for Research, said in an interview at a conference in
 Washington . Carey said Danville, Pennsylvania-based Geisinger is
talking with foundations, the government and the gas industry
about contributing money to expand the project.  The  Institute of Medicine , advisers to the government on
health care, is examining whether the fracking process of
extracting natural gas from shale rock poses health risks.
Concerns include the potential for water and air pollution, as
well as inhalation of sand dust, according to academics and
government officials who spoke at a workshop sponsored by the
institute this week.  “There’s all these concerns about what the health risks
are but we’re really limited to anecdotal data,” Carey said.
The database can contribute “real hard, rigorous scientific
data” to the debate, he said.  Fracking releases gas trapped in shale rock by injecting
water, sand and chemicals thousands of feet underground. It’s
used for almost every new natural-gas well drilled in the U.S.  Operating Safely  “Fundamentally I believe that we can operate tight gas
wells safely,” said Rob Donnelly, vice president of health at
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s Shell Oil Co., in an interview at the
conference. He said the company was willing to participate in
studies as long as there’s “a good, clear question being asked
and solid design.”  “We’re not afraid of science in this space; far from it,”
he said.  Fracking has enabled energy companies to access fuel
trapped in previously impenetrable shale rock, reversing a
decline in U.S. gas production. Shell drills in the Marcellus
shale, a formation that stretches from  New York  to  Tennessee .  Fracking has been used to drill more than 4,400 wells in
Pennsylvania since 2009. Companies spent about $20 billion in
Pennsylvania’s shale from 2008 to 2010 on leases, drilling rigs
and royalties to property owners who leased their mineral
rights, according to a July report from Pennsylvania State
University’s College of Earth and Mineral Sciences.  Chemical Disclosure  Natural-gas companies drilling on U.S. land would be
permitted to wait until after hydraulic fracturing is completed
to disclose what chemicals they used, under a draft rule being
considered by the Interior Department. Disclosure “would only
be required after the fracturing operation has taken place,”
according to the draft, obtained by Bloomberg News.  The rule, which also includes standards for well
construction, is consistent with guidelines established by the
 American Petroleum Institute , the largest industry trade group,
according to the draft.  The examination by the  Institute of Medicine , a branch of
the  National Academy of Sciences , isn’t a formal study and won’t
result in a report or recommendations to the government.  Donnelly said he wasn’t familiar enough with Geisinger’s
project to say if Shell would be interested in giving support.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  