-- General Growth FFO Climbs as Tenant Sales at Malls Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-01T22:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/general-growth-ffo-climbs-amid-an-increase-in-consumer-spending.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) , the
second-biggest U.S. shopping-mall owner, said funds from
operations excluding some items rose in the first quarter as
tenant sales climbed amid increased  consumer spending .  The company’s so-called core FFO rose to $222.1 million, or
22 cents a share, from $208.2 million, or 21 cents, a year
earlier, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts expected core FFO, which excludes items such as
discontinued operations and interest expense on repaid debt, of
21 cents a share, the average of nine estimates in a Bloomberg
 survey . FFO is a measure of a property owner’s ability to
generate cash.  The real estate investment trust in January completed its
spinoff of 30 malls that have lower tenant sales into a company
known as  Rouse Properties Inc. (RSE) , allowing General Growth to focus
on its better-performing retail centers. Mall owners,
particularly those with top-tier properties, are benefiting from
rising rents and occupancies, said Keith Bokota, an analyst at
 Des Moines , Iowa-based Principal Global Investors.  “Malls have done pretty well,” Bokota said in a telephone
interview yesterday. “We’ve seen property-level income growing
at a pretty good clip.”  Principal Financial owned 7.7 million shares of General
Growth at the end of December, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Consumer Spending Rises  Consumer spending in March rose 0.3 percent, after a
revised 0.9 percent gain the prior month that was higher than
first reported. Household purchases account for about 70 percent
of the  U.S. economy .  General Growth’s comparable tenant sales in the first
quarter increased 9.6 percent to $525 per square foot on a
trailing 12-month basis.  The company raised its forecast for full-year core FFO to
92 cents to 96 cents a share from 90 cents to 94 cents.  The results were released after the close of regular U.S.
trading. General Growth rose 0.7 percent to $17.92 in  New York .  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the only U.S. mall owner larger
than General Growth, on April 27 reported first-quarter results
that were higher than analysts’ estimates and increased its
dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  