-- Genworth CEO Fraizer Resigns From Insurer
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-05-02T01:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/genworth-s-fraizer-resigns-after-stock-plunge-klein-acting-ceo.html
Genworth (GNW)  Financial Inc., the mortgage
guarantor and life insurer, said Chief Executive OfficerMichael Fraizer resigned after shares plunged more than 80 percent since
the end of 2006.  Chief Financial OfficerMartin Klein was named acting CEO,
the Richmond, Virginia-based insurer said yesterday in a
statement.  Fraizer, 53, who is also stepping down as chairman, shelved
plans last month for the initial public offering of an Australia
mortgage-insurance unit, citing “elevated” losses in the
nation. Fraizer, who guided Genworth through its spinoff from
General Electric Co. in 2005, previously misjudged when results
would rebound at the U.S. operation backing home loans.  “This has been a long time coming,” said Jonathon Jacobson, who runs Highfields Capital Management LP, the $11
billion investment firm that owns about 6 percent of Genworth.
“Fraizer has been an impediment at the company to both
operating and structural changes. We applaud the board for
taking the step that they took today.”  Genworth advanced to $6.30 at 6:18 p.m. yesterday in New
York, after closing at $6.15. The company, which traded at
$34.21 in December 2006, has a price-to-book-value ratio of
0.18, the lowest in the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   The 2008 financial crisis and the U.S. housing slump pushed
Genworth into aggregate losses of more than $700 million in the
four years ended in December. The Australian unit sale was
intended to increase the company’s cash as Fraizer sought to
direct capital to share repurchases. Genworth announced on April
17 that the IPO plan was shelved, and the stock dropped 24
percent the next day.  Core Strengths  “With Marty and the rest of the senior management team,
the board is confident the company will be able to capitalize on
its core strengths and successfully rebuild  shareholder value ,”
said James Riepe, who was named non-executive chairman. “The
board will move forward with the search for a permanent CEO in
light of its continued review of the business portfolio.”  Klein, 52, joined Genworth in April 2011 from  Barclays
Capital , where he was a managing director, and has led Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.’s insurance and pension solutions groups.
He has a bachelor’s degree from Hope College in Holland,
 Michigan , and a master’s in statistics and actuarial science
from the University of  Iowa , according to the firm’s website.  Genworth said yesterday that first-quarter  net income  fell
20 percent to $47 million, or 9 cents a share, from $59 million,
or 12 cents, a year earlier. Operating profit, which excludes
some investment results, was 6 cents a share, missing the 13-
cent  average estimate  of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Genworth’s Australian mortgage insurer booked a $21 million loss
in the quarter after claims costs rose.  Australia Business  “We are very disappointed about performance of our
Australia MI business this quarter and its impact on the timing
of the minority IPO,” Klein said in the statement. “We remain
committed to completing this strategic initiative while working
on other actions to improve performance in our businesses and
generate and manage capital.”  Klein, as CFO on March 29, told investors he expected
markets in Australia and  Canada , where the firm owns mortgage-
insurance units, “to remain solid.”  The worst  U.S. housing crash  in seven decades drained
capital at mortgage insurers, including Genworth, that pay
lenders when homeowners default and foreclosures fail to recoup
costs. The company’s retirement-planning business, which halted
sales of variable annuities after losses during the financial
crisis, sells life-insurance and long-term care policies.  Blaming Fraizer  “I don’t accept that Fraizer was a bad CEO,” said  Steven Schwartz , an analyst at Raymond James & Associates. “You’d be
blaming Fraizer for not seeing something very few people saw.”  Genworth promoted Kevin Schneider from head of U.S.
mortgage insurance to CEO of the business line globally, the
company said yesterday in a separate statement. Genworth said it
is seeking to improve “operating synergies while enhancing the
transparency” of mortgage-insurance operations for investors.  “It sets the stage for a separation,” said Kevin Byun,
founder and chief investment officer of Genworth shareholder
Denali Investors LLC in New York. “Because they’re announcing
at the same time, it shows that they’ve decided to shake this
thing up all at once.” Byun, based in  New York , said he has
asked Genworth to consider splitting into two or more companies.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., a life insurer that
also sells property-casualty coverage, is under pressure from
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  to break itself into
two companies. Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the
same name, is seeking to sell businesses.  Next Generation  “The Genworth team has accomplished much,” Fraizer said
in the insurer’s statement. “After navigating through the
recent financial and housing crisis, and as the company
transitions to the next-generation Genworth, I believe this is
the right time for me to move on to other opportunities.”  Fraizer told investors in a December 2009 presentation that
Genworth expected quarterly operating earnings at the U.S.
mortgage-insurance unit would “turn positive in the mid-2011
timeframe.” In a July 20 statement, Genworth cited “worsening
trends” in the business as it used $375 million to provide
capital support to the unit.  Fraizer said in March that Genworth was  “humbled”  by its
performance in 2011, a year in which the stock fell 50 percent.
Fraizer was awarded $750,000 in incentive compensation for 2011,
or 33 percent of his target, and hasn’t qualified for his full
bonus since 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  