-- Gibson’s ‘Mel Model’ Tests Market for $9.99 Pay-Per-View
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-05-01T17:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/gibson-s-mel-model-tests-market-for-9-99-pay-per-view.html
Mel Gibson  is bypassing theaters and
releasing his latest picture on  pay-television  today, a move
other producers are pursuing as consumers spend more to watch
movies from home.  “Get the Gringo,” which stars the 56-year-old actor as a
career criminal who finds himself in a Mexican prison, will be
available solely on DirecTV this month for $9.99, before its DVD
release. The satellite service is promoting the film to its 20
million U.S. customers on TV, via e-mail and on its website.  Gibson’s track record means the so-called Mel Model will be
watched. His 2004 independent release, “The Passion of the
Christ,” grossed $611 million in worldwide ticket sales. While
his reputation may have made it difficult to get theatrical
distribution, the experiment will appeal to other filmmakers who
don’t have the same resources, said Phil Contrino, editor of
film researcher Boxoffice.com.  “This is a way that his fan base will find the movie,”
Contrino said in an interview, citing Gibson’s artistic
respectability. Smaller-budget films may not warrant a $30
million outlay to get into theaters, he said.  Gibson’s reputation was damaged by an anti-Semitic tirade
during a 2006 drunk-driving arrest and a well-publicized blowup
at his former girlfriend in 2010.  “Get the Gringo” could have had traditional theatrical
distribution, said Mike Dunn, president of Los Angeles-based
Twentieth Century Fox Home Entertainment, which is distributing
the picture. He said he’s gotten calls from other producers
asking about releasing a film first on pay TV.  “It’s a new model that goes broad quickly,” Dunn said.
“A lot of films will go this direction.”  ‘Smarter Way’  Gibson, who financed the $20 million production cost, will
get a larger share of revenue from  DirecTV (DTV) , receive payment
sooner, and shell out less in distribution fees than with a
traditional theatrical release, according to Mark Gooder, chief
executive officer of Icon Productions LLC, the actor’s  Santa
Monica , California-based company.  “We’d been having conversations about digital platforms,”
Gooder said in an interview. “We said to ourselves, ‘We’ve got
this film here, we paid for it, is there a smarter way of
getting it out?’”  DirecTV, based in El Segundo,  California , declined to
comment, said  Robert Mercer , a spokesman.  Major-studio cutbacks in the number of film titles has
forced some independent filmmakers to look for alternatives. The
major studios released 141 movies last year, a 31 percent
decrease from 2006, according to  statistics  from the  Motion
Picture Association of America .  Home Theaters  Gooder estimated the cost of advertising and printing
copies of a movie for a 2,000-screen release at $28 million.  “The theatrical experience is still a huge driving factor,
but there is parallel model,” Gooder said.  Home-theater systems have improved the living-room viewing
experience, and audiences have gotten used to options like
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s. A high-definition version of the movie will cost
$10.99, according to Fox.  U.S. pay-TV purchases increased 8 percent over the past two
years to 278 million videos, according to Bruce Goerlich, chief
research officer at  Rentrak Corp. (RENT) , which compiles industry
statistics. Video-on-demand sales rose 6.8 percent to $505
million in the first quarter, according to the studio-run
Digital Entertainment Group.  The financial-crisis film “Margin Call” was released
simultaneously last year in theaters and on pay television,
generating 600,000 video-on-demand transactions, according to
Peter Wilkes, a spokesman for  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  The
movie grossed $5.4 million in domestic theaters and $4 million
in video on demand purchases.  ‘Braveheart’ to ‘Beaver’  Studios have also weighed so-called premium VOD.  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  abandoned a plan last October to
release the Eddie Murphy film “Tower Heist” for $59.99 on pay
TV three weeks after its theatrical release, after exhibitors
threatened a boycott.  “This will eventually work out to be a great business
model but the first movers on this are going to have a tough
time,” said J.C. Spink, a producer of “The Ring” and “I Am
Number Four.”  Gibson, who won Academy Awards for best picture and
director for 1995’s “Braveheart,” has struggled
professionally. “The Beaver,” in which he starred, grossed
less than $1 million in U.S. theaters last year, according to
the Internet Movie Database.  He was dropped from a cameo in  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s “The
Hangover Part II” after some members of the film protested his
appearance.  Leno Show  Gibson premiered “Get the Gringo” for one night in
Austin,  Texas , and nine other locations April 18 to generate
chatter on social-networking sites, Fox’s Dunn said.  The movie will be released in theaters overseas, Gibson
told  Jay Leno  on “The Tonight Show” on April 27. He said he
had theatrical distribution lined up in the U.S. but opted for
pay-per-view.  “If you take four people to the cinema you’re paying 100
bucks for the babysitter and something to eat and everything
else,” he said. “With this it’s 10 bucks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  