-- Goldman Says Rule Curbing Counterparty Links Risks Jobs
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-05-02T00:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/goldman-sachs-says-fed-risk-rules-will-cut-jobs-economic-growth.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said a
proposed Federal Reserve rule seeking to limit links between
banks could cut U.S. economic growth by as much as 0.4
percentage point and eliminate as many as 300,000 jobs.  The estimate, the most specific so far in reaction to the
Fed’s  proposed rule , was based on New York-based Goldman Sachs’s
own research and assessment of how it would affect the corporate
 debt market , according to an April 30  letter  to the Fed that was
made public yesterday.  “The impact on the corporate  bond market  alone could drive
the elimination of 150,000 to 300,000 American jobs,” wrote
Goldman Sachs Chief Risk Officer Craig W. Broderick. “Smaller
companies that lack access to alternative sources of capital --
and that drive job creation -- would be hardest hit.”  The bank joined rivals including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and Morgan Stanley in opposing a rule that would
limit financial firms with at least $500 billion in assets from
having credit risk to any other exceeding 10 percent of its
regulatory capital plus excess loan-loss reserves. That limit is
stricter than a 25 percent limit that’s applied more broadly to
banks in the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul law.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, had
$77.1 billion in total regulatory capital and no loan-loss
reserves as of Dec. 31, according to the firm’s annual filing.  Chief executive officers of the largest U.S. banks,
including New York-based JPMorgan, are set to meet with Fed
Governor  Daniel Tarullo  today to discuss the proposed rule as
well as the Fed’s recent stress tests of banks, four people
familiar with the meeting said earlier this week.  Derivatives Market Impact  One concern for the banks is how the limits would affect
the market for derivatives. As of December,  five firms  accounted
for 96 percent of the total U.S. banking industry’s notional
holdings in derivatives and 86 percent of the industry’s net
current credit exposure in derivatives, according to the Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency.  The proposed limits “greatly overstate credit exposures,
particularly with respect to counterparty exposure arising from
derivatives,” Citigroup Chief Risk Officer Brian Leach said in
a letter to the Fed. “The overstatement of the credit exposure
will require financial institutions to substantially reduce
lending to customers, reduce market-making activities in
derivative instruments on behalf of customers, and either
purchase less credit protection, or purchase credit protection
from smaller, less well-capitalized institutions or from ‘shadow
banking’ firms.”  ‘Technical Flaws’  The Fed’s method of measuring counterparty credit doesn’t
consider that some contracts offset each other and that trading
partners receive collateral to mitigate potential risks,
according to Goldman Sachs’s letter. These issues, along with
other “technical flaws” in the proposed rule’s approach, would
lead counterparty exposures to be overestimated by as much as
four to 18 times the actual risk, the company wrote.  A firm also may be hindered in lending to small businesses
if its attempt to buy protection from other banks pushes it over
the exposure limits, according to Goldman Sachs.  The Fed should “conduct a full quantitative impact study
on the overstatement of exposure and interconnectedness” under
the so-called single counterparty credit limit “and the
implications of that overstatement for U.S. financial markets
and U.S. economic activity,” according to the letter.  Business Roundtable  Groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the
 Business Roundtable  have successfully challenged the legality of
other regulatory measures by claiming authorities didn’t fully
assess the costs.  In July, the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  overturned
a Securities and Exchange Commission rule that would have
expanded shareholder rights. That has made future SEC rules
vulnerable to similar challenges, forcing agency Chairman  Mary Schapiro  to redouble efforts to study cost-benefit effects,
slowing the rulemaking process.  Michael Bleier, a former Fed lawyer and now a partner at
 Reed Smith LLP , said the banks’ comments will sway regulators
and that the central bank may “have to rethink” its analysis.  “The Fed will ultimately have to raise that 10 percent
limit,” Bleier said. “That should be accompanied by some type
of economic analysis to determine what the right number is.”  The limits also could reduce banks’ use of clearinghouses
to trade derivatives and damage sovereign-debt markets because
banks would be limited in how much credit they could extend to
foreign governments, according to the letter.  Aggregation Requirement  “The proposed rules’ aggregation requirement also creates
difficulties by casting the net too broadly,” Goldman Sachs
wrote. “It requires covered companies to aggregate all
‘controlled’ subsidiaries, defined as 25 percent or more of the
voting shares or equity, which will be difficult for covered
companies to do in practice.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said
the Fed’s definition of what constitutes “controlling” a
subsidiary would force it to include the exposures held by a
Japanese joint venture that  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
operates. Including those risks would “constrain its ability to
enter into credit transactions with counterparties whose
obligations are also held by the joint venture,” Morgan Stanley
Chief Risk Officer Keishi Hotsuki wrote in a letter to the Fed.  Goldman Sachs, in a list of recommendations to the central
bank, said the 25 percent limit on single counterparty credit
should be applied to all companies “regardless of asset size”
and that clearinghouses and “high-quality sovereigns” be
excluded from the limits. Subsidiaries also should be excluded
unless they’re consolidated for financial-reporting purposes,
according to the letter.  The firm called on the Fed to let companies wait until July
2015 to conform to the rules and spend an additional five years
to implement monitoring of the limits.  “This additional time would allow covered companies to
carefully reduce their excess exposures,” Goldman Sachs wrote.
“Allowing time for this to occur would reduce the risk of ‘fire
sales’ or serious market disruptions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  