-- Grange Says Chinese, Asian Groups Interested in Mine Stake
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-05-01T06:36:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/grange-says-chinese-asian-groups-interested-in-mine-stake-1-.html
Grange Resources Ltd. (GRR) , Australia’s
largest  iron ore  pellet producer, said companies in Asia are
interested in buying a stake in its A$2.9 billion ($3 billion)
Southdown project, whose cost estimate rose about 12 percent.  “We’re looking at a number of finance options, one of
which is selling a stake in the project,” Russell Clark,
managing director of the Perth-based company, said today in an
e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. “Potential sell
down targets are varied and there is interest in Southdown from
around the globe, particularly China and Asian countries.  Grange today announced the completion of a feasibility
study for Southdown, 70 percent owned by Grange with the rest
held by a joint venture of Japan’s  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  and  Kobe Steel
Ltd. (5406)  Grange appointed Standard Chartered Plc in September to
advise on funding the project, set for first output in 2015.  ‘‘No formal process to sell down assets has been
initiated,’’ Clark said.  Grange, whose biggest shareholder is Jiangsu Shagang Group
Co., China’s largest closely held steelmaker, fell 3.3 percent
to 58 cents at the close of trading in Sydney, compared with a
0.8 percent gain in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The projected cost of development of Southdown is A$2.9
billion, the company said today. That compares with a A$2.6
billion estimate in February.  Credit Conditions  ‘‘The project partners are now considering the findings of
the study and are expected to make a final  investment decision 
when finance is in place, expected by the end of the year and
subject to broader global credit conditions,’’ Grange said in
the statement.  Steelmakers including Kobe, which bought its indirect 10
percent stake in Southdown in March, and  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the
world’s biggest producer, are looking to secure iron ore and
coking coal resources as increasing purchases by China and India
tighten global supplies.  The Southdown mine, located 90 kilometers (56 miles)
northeast of Albany Port in Western Australia state, is slated
to produce about 10 million metric tons of iron ore a year
starting 2015, according to Grange. The company also produces
iron ore pellets from the Savage River mine in  Australia ’s
Tasmania state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  