-- Gross Says Credit Expansion to Create Inflation, Slow Growth
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-05-01T12:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/gross-says-credit-expansion-to-create-inflation-slow-growth-1-.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said
structural distortions brought by central bank credit expansion
will limit growth and accelerate the risk of inflation.  Pimco favors bonds in the five-year maturity range, as well
as dividend-paying stocks that yield 3 to 4 percent and
recommended that real assets and commodities be part of an
investor portfolio, Gross said in his monthly investment outlook
posted on the  Newport Beach , California-based company’s  website 
today.  “Not suddenly, but over time, gradually higher rates of
inflation should be the result of QE policies and zero-bound
yields that will likely continue for years to come,” Gross
said, referring to the  Federal Reserve ’s balance sheet through
debt purchases, or quantitative easing, known as QE.  The Fed  purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of
quantitative easing that have become known as QE1 and QE2 as
part of its efforts to support the world’s biggest economy.
Policy makers in January said they plan to keep their benchmark
interest rate near zero until at least the end of 2014.  “The current acceleration of credit via central bank
policies will likely produce a positive rate of real economic
growth this year for most developed countries, but the
structural distortions brought about by zero-bound  interest
rates  will limit the growth” Gross wrote. And “induce serious
risks in future years.”  Global Policies  Central bank policy makers around the world are trying to
nurture nascent recoveries or lift their economies from
recessions, such as in the U.K. The Bank of England voted last
month to complete their current round of 325 billion pounds
($528 billion) of debt purchases. The  European Central Bank  held
its benchmark interest rate at 1 percent last month, and
President  Mario Draghi  infused the regions banking system with
cash in December and February through two longer-term
refinancing operations.  Fixed-income assets -- from Australian government debt to
U.S. Treasuries to global  junk bonds  -- gained 0.7 percent last
month including reinvested interest, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of  stocks  lost 1.1 percent including dividends while the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of metals, fuels and
agricultural products fell 0.5 percent. The  U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) 
dropped 0.3 percent.  Inflation Outlook  Investors sought the perceived safety of fixed-income
investments after U.S. job growth in March was less than
economists’ forecasts and concern European leaders will fail to
manage their debt loads. Joblessness in the euro area probably
rose to 10.9 percent last month, the highest since 1997,
according to economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Inflation should creep higher,” Gross wrote in the note
today. “Do not be mellowed by the affirmation of a 2 percent
target rate of inflation here in the U.S. or as targeted in six
of the G-7 nations.”  Pimco’s $259 billion Total Return Fund beat 99 percent of
its competitors this year with a 4.38 percent return. Gross in
February reduced holdings of Treasuries for the first time in a
year, when it cut its stake in the securities to zero.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE ,
managed $1.35 trillion of assets as of September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  