-- Cnooc Climbs to Biggest Premium as Output Grows: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-05-01T21:22:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/guangshen-rail-biggest-premium-as-output-climbs-china-overnight.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  gained in  New York  to trade
at the biggest premium over its  Hong Kong  shares in two weeks as
data showed manufacturing expanded in the world’s two largest
economies last month.  American depositary receipts of  China ’s largest offshore
oil producer fetched 1 percent more in the U.S. than in Hong
Kong after markets there were closed for a holiday. It was the
biggest  premium  among dual-listed stocks in the  Bloomberg China-
US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese equities in the U.S.
The gauge advanced 1.1 percent to 104.65 in New York, bringing
its gain this week to 0.4 percent.  Manufacturing in China, the world’s second largest economy
after the U.S., grew for a fifth month in April, while factory
output in the U.S. rose at the fastest pace in 10 months,
reports yesterday showed.  The Shanghai Composite Index’s (SHCOMP)  longest
 bear market  since 2005 is ending as the government loosens
monetary policy to bolster the economy, according to Morgan
Stanley Huaxin Securities and Guotai Junan Securities Co.  The manufacturing numbers “are confirmation that there
won’t be a hard landing,” said Christian Deseglise, the New
York-based managing director of HSBC Global Asset Management for
the Americas, said in a phone interview. “Investors who are
looking at the Chinese market should be looking at the valuation
of the equities. We are at levels that are historically very,
very low.”  Manufacturing Gains  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 1.1 percent to $38.35
yesterday, the highest close since March 16. The  MSCI China
Index (MXCN)  of Hong Kong-traded shares trades for 9.8 times earnings
for member companies, compared with a 10.6 times average
valuation for stocks on the MSCI Emerging Market Index.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.6 percent
yesterday after a report showed that the Institute for Supply
Management’s U.S. factory index rose to 54.8 last month, the
fastest growth since June.  In China, the Purchasing Managers’ Index climbed to a 13-
month high of 53.3, from 53.1 in March, the nation’s statistics
bureau and logistics federation said yesterday. That compared
with the 53.6 median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 27
economists.  Exchanges on China’s mainland were shut over the first two
days of the week.  Cnooc’s ADRs added 1.8 percent to $215.40 yesterday for a
gain of 1.7 percent this week. The Beijing-based company rose
1.6 percent to HK$16.54, or $2.13, in Hong Kong on April 30,
before markets closed yesterday for Labor Day. One ADR
represents 100 shares.  ‘Near-Term Bottom’  ADRs of  China Life Insurance Co. (LFC) , the nation’s biggest
insurer, advanced 2.6 percent to $40.99, trading at a premium of
1 percent over its Hong Kong-listed shares.  Solar equipment makers including  Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co. (YGE)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP)  led gains in the
Bloomberg China-US gauge yesterday as Citigroup Inc. said there
are “signs of a near-term bottom” for the shares as demand for
their products picks up.  Yingli, a Baoding, China-based solar-module maker, jumped
for a sixth day in New York, after Citigroup raised its
recommendation on the stock to buy from neutral. The shares
surged 5.2 percent to $3.83, the highest close since March 23.  Citigroup’s field work shows that solar cell and module
sales have increased “significantly” over recent weeks,
signaling an “inflection point” for an industry that had been
hurt by signs of oversupply,  Timothy Arcuri , a technology
analyst at Citigroup in  San Francisco , wrote in a research note
e-mailed yesterday.  Short-Lived Bounce  Suntech, the world’s biggest maker of solar panels, jumped
7.9 percent to $2.72, the biggest one-day gain since March 20.
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s third-biggest maker of solar panels,
climbed 3 percent to $7.48, the highest close since March 26.  The bounce in solar stocks will be short-lived as
governments in countries including Germany, the world’s biggest
solar market, cut subsidies to the industry, which still suffers
from overcapacity, according to Min Xu, an equity analyst at
Jefferies Group Inc.  “There are too many players,” Xu said yesterday by phone
in New York. “We still don’t think, fundamentally, anything has
changed.”  China’s two domestic stock exchanges -- Shenzhen and
 Shanghai  -- will lower fees charged for trading yuan-denominated
shares by 25 percent from June 1, the nation’s securities
regulator said in a statement on its website on April 30.  Foreigners Restricted  The Shanghai Composite Index of domestic Chinese stocks has
rallied 12 percent from this year’s low reached on Jan. 5 as
reports showing a revival in  bank lending  and manufacturing
spurred investors to snap up shares trading at the  cheapest 
levels on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The gauge of mainland-listed stocks, restricted to local
investors and qualified foreign institutional money managers, is
still trading 61 percent below its 2007  peak  after closing at
2,396.32 on April 27 before the holiday. The retreat, which kept
the index below 20 percent of its peak for 423 days, ranks as
the second-longest bear market since 1990, according to Birinyi
Associates Inc.  The Shanghai Composite may rally another 30 percent this
year as lower  reserve requirements  boost bank shares, Jerry Lou,
chief strategy officer at Morgan Stanley Huaxin in Shanghai,
said in an April 24 phone interview.  Three Chinese companies traded in the U.S. are scheduled to
release earnings results this week.  Youku Earnings  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD) , a Shanghai-based chip
designer, will issue first-quarter earnings after the market
closes tomorrow. The company’s shares fell 0.2 percent to $13.77
in New York yesterday.  Youku Inc. (YOKU) , the biggest online video operator in China, and
Seaspan Corp., a Hong Kong-based container ship operator, are
expected to report earnings the following day, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Youku added 0.4 percent to $24.14 yesterday
while Seaspan gained 4.4 percent to close at $17.44, the highest
level since April 3.  Of the 16 companies in the Bloomberg China-US index that
have reported earnings since April 10, eight fell short of
analysts’ forecasts, including  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  and  China
Telecom Corp. (CHA) , according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  