-- Michael Lynagh to Leave Hospital Tomorrow Two Weeks After Stroke
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-01T06:50:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/michael-lynagh-to-leave-hospital-tomorrow-two-weeks-after-stroke.html
Michael Lynagh,  Australia ’s leading
points scorer in elite international rugby, will be released
from a Brisbane hospital tomorrow after suffering a stroke two
weeks ago.  Lynagh, a  World Cup  winner with the Wallabies in 1991, will
hold a news conference along with his medical specialists when
he leaves, the Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital said today in
a statement.  “I would like to thank all the doctors, nurses and staff
at the Royal Brisbane Hospital,” Lynagh wrote earlier on his
Twitter account. “They were fantastic and are real heroes.”  Lynagh was in a “critical but stable condition” after
suffering a cerebellar and occipital lobe stroke that had
affected his vision, coordination and balance,  Rob Henderson , a
neurologist at the hospital, said April 20. He was admitted to
the hospital after being taken ill while visiting family.  Former fly-half Lynagh, who made his debut for Australia at
age 20 in 1984, scored a record 911 points in 72 Tests for the
Wallabies before retiring in 1995 as the sport’s leading scorer.
His world record tally lasted until 1999, when it was surpassed
by Neil Jenkins of Wales.  At the 1991 World Cup, Lynagh scored a late try in a
quarterfinal against Ireland to give Australia a one-point
victory and kicked eight points in the Wallabies’ 12-6 win over
host England in the final.  He signed for Saracens in  England  in 1996 after the sport
went professional and retired two years later. He captained
Saracens to victory in the 1998 Tetley Bitter Cup, the club’s
first trophy in its 122-year history.  In April 2002, Lynagh joined the International Rugby Board
to assist with the global development and promotion of the
sport, though resigned in September that year. He’s since worked
in marketing and as a rugby analyst for U.K. broadcasters
including  Sky Sports .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  