-- Higher Taxes Won’t Discourage Wealthy From Working Harder
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-01T22:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/higher-taxes-won-t-discourage-wealthy-from-working-harder.html
Atlas won’t shrug.  That’s the view of economists Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty: They argue higher taxes will not discourage the wealthy
from working harder or slow the economy, unlike in  Ayn Rand ’s
1957 novel, “Atlas Shrugged.” Its hero, John Galt, led a
strike by industrialists and others against the government,
partly because they thought they were too highly taxed.  “Top 1 percent earners now make 20 times the average,
while they made only 10 times the average in the 1970s,” Saez,
winner of the John Bates Clark young economist award in 2009,
said in an e-mail. “If they worked hard then, they should
continue working hard today, even if they are taxed at 50
percent.”  The top federal tax rate is now 35 percent.  The two economists’ work is of more than just academic
interest. President  Barack Obama ’s former budget director,  Peter Orszag , has said their research on income inequality “helped to
point the way for the administration in its pledge to rebalance
the  tax code .” Senate Republicans last month blocked Obama’s
plan to raise taxes on the rich via the so-called Buffett rule,
arguing it would hurt the economy.  “High marginal tax rates distort decisions to work, save,
invest and start a business,” Glenn Hubbard, an economic
adviser to Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney, said
in an e-mail.  In  France , Socialist presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  has called for a 75 percent tax on annual incomes of
more than 1 million euros ($1.3 million), a proposal championed
by Piketty, a professor at the Paris School of Economics. Polls
show Hollande leading over incumbent President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in advance of May 6 elections.  ‘Just Crazy’  “The idea that we need to pay people many millions of
euros per year to get them to work harder is just crazy,”
Piketty said in a telephone interview.  He and Saez, a professor of economics at the University of
California-Berkeley, agreed in a  November 2011 paper  that the
rich do behave differently when their taxes are raised. They
pursue financial strategies to reduce their taxable incomes and
bargain for higher compensation, instead of cutting back on how
much they work and save or becoming less entrepreneurial.  Peter Diamond, who won the 2010 Nobel Prize in economics,
also sees little evidence that raising rates on the top 1
percent of income earners -- households making about $350,000 or
more a year in 2010 -- would restrict growth.  ‘Overwhelming Likelihood’  “The overwhelming likelihood is that the revenue-
maximizing federal  tax rate  is somewhere in the 50 to 70 percent
range,” said Diamond, a professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge. “If you are reluctant to
overshoot, well okay, you can only go up to 50 percent, which I
like to refer to as the Reagan tax rate.”  Lionized by Republicans, the late Ronald Reagan championed
an across-the-board tax cut soon after he became president in
1981 that lowered the top rate to 50 percent from 70 percent. He
subsequently pushed it to 28 percent as part of an  overhaul  of
the tax code in 1986.  The economy actually grew faster in the 30 years before
that tax cut than it did during the following three decades,
according to Diamond and Saez. Gross domestic product per capita
advanced at an average annual 2.2 percent rate between 1950 and
1980, compared with 1.7 percent between 1980 and 2010, their
calculations show.  Internationally, advanced economies that have reduced top
tax rates the most since 1975 haven’t shown a tendency to grow
faster than those that cut less, Piketty, Saez and Stefanie
Stantcheva, an economist and Ph.D. student at MIT, found in the
November 2011 paper.  Faster Growth  Their data ignore such emerging-market economies as Brazil
and  India , which have lowered top tax rates and enjoyed faster
growth than developed nations, said Alan Reynolds, a senior
fellow at the Cato Institute in  Washington .  Brazil’s economy has expanded at an average annual pace of
3.6 percent since 2000, more than double the 17-nation euro
area’s 1.4 percent.  The British government is worried enough about the economic
impact of high taxes on the wealthy that it has said it will
reduce its top rate to 45 percent next year from 50 percent now.  No government “can justify a tax rate that damages our
economy and raises next to nothing; it’s as simple as that,”
Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne told Parliament in
 London  on March 21.  Tax Avoidance  It’s not only through “reduced work effort” by the rich
that higher tax rates can hurt the economy, Martin Feldstein, a
professor at  Harvard University  in Cambridge, Massachusetts,
said in an e-mail. Stepped-up tax avoidance also can impede
economic efficiency by diverting money and attention away from
more productive purposes, said Feldstein, president emeritus of
the National Bureau of Economic Research, which determines when
U.S. recessions begin and end.  Such efforts -- which include taking more compensation in
the form of tax-advantaged health-care benefits -- reduce
revenue for the government and “increase deadweight losses”
for the economy, he added.  Very high top tax rates also may have long-run effects on
growth that aren’t immediately discernible, said  Joel Slemrod ,
chair of the economics department at the University of Michigan
in Ann Arbor.  “New people coming into the labor force might decide it’s
not worth it” to try so hard to get ahead, he said.  Depressed Labor Supply  High taxes have depressed the labor supply in European
economies,  according to economist Edward C. Prescott, a Nobel
laureate, who argues that Americans generally work more hours
because U.S. tax rates are lower. The result: U.S. inflation-
adjusted GDP per capita in 2010 was about 40 percent higher than
the average for the euro area, according to  data  from the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.  “This is nonsense,” said the Piketty, 40, a visiting
professor at MIT in 2000-2001. “When people in  Europe  have five
weeks of vacation, this is not in response to high tax rates.”  Saez, 39, said increases in top rates should be coupled
with steps to close loopholes and broaden the tax base to limit
the avoidance efforts Feldstein worries about.  Capital-gains taxes should be raised as well, said Saez, a
French and U.S. citizen. That would discourage business leaders
from trying to take more of their compensation in shares, rather
than salary, to avoid paying higher income-tax rates. The top
U.S. rate on long-term gains is 15 percent.  Move Together  Taxes on capital and labor income earned by the wealthy
“don’t have to match, but they should move together and
shouldn’t be too far apart,” Diamond said.  An increase would hurt the  stock market  and the economy,
argued Romney adviser Hubbard, who is also dean of the graduate
business school at  Columbia University  in  New York .  “Because evidence suggests that higher dividend- and
capital-gains taxes are capitalized in equity values, increasing
those tax rates will reduce stock prices and the wealth of
millions of Americans,” he said. A rise would discourage
investment, “leading to lower productivity, wages and output.”  Saez and Piketty also have faced criticism for their
research on  income inequality . Using tax returns, the two
academic economists concluded that the top 1 percent of U.S.
earners have more than doubled their share of income during the
last half century, to about 20 percent in 2010 from less than 10
percent in the 1970s.  Fluctuations in Earnings  The research says more about fluctuations in earnings
reported for tax purposes in response to changes in the tax code
than it does about inequality, Cato’s Reynolds said.  Another critic, Scott Winship, said he has become less
skeptical of Saez and Piketty’s work as other studies show
income differences widening -- albeit perhaps not to the extent
the academics do.  “The general trend is still toward increasing
inequality,” said Winship, a fellow at the  Brookings
Institution  in Washington.  The  Congressional Budget Office  said in an October report
that the share of income received by the top 1 percent grew from
about 8 percent in 1979 to over 17 percent in 2007.  In its calculations, the Washington-based CBO takes account
of government transfer payments, primarily from Social Security,
and company-paid health-insurance benefits, neither of which
Saez and Piketty consider.  Growing Inequality  Even after those adjustments, the rapid growth of income
for the top 1 percent remains “a major factor” contributing to
growing inequality, the CBO report said.  That’s reflected in the  Occupy Wall Street  movement’s
motto, “We are the 99 percent,” and its calls for a more even
distribution of wealth. Demonstrators took to the streets in May
Day protests today across the U.S., sending a singing
“Guitarmy” to Manhattan’s Union Square and smashing windows in
Seattle.  Diamond and Saez contributed an essay about higher taxes on
the rich to the “Occupy Handbook,” a compendium published last
month as a guide to the movement.  “I have no problem with the rich per se,” Piketty said.
“But what we’re talking about is completely insane income in my
view that people are just extracting from the economy which has
nothing to do with their performance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  