-- Hillary Clinton’s Headaches Are Waiting in China
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-05-01T21:00:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/hillary-clinton-s-headaches-are-waiting-in-china.html
Hillary Clinton ’s Beijing agenda is
growing longer and more daunting by the minute.  Everywhere the U.S secretary of State looks in today’s
China-U.S. relationship, tensions that might unnerve markets or
fracture strategic relationships stare back at her. Strains were
building even before blind activist  Chen Guangcheng  reportedly
took shelter in the U.S. Embassy in Beijing after a bold escape
from house arrest. Finessing the U.S.’s role in the scandal
surrounding ousted Communist Party Politburo member Bo Xilai and
his family would have been challenge enough for Clinton’s team.  The same goes for China’s early support for the brutal
Assad regime in Syria, the U.S. sale of F-16s to Taiwan,
disputes over  Iran , America’s embrace of Myanmar and Beijing’s
military ambitions. Then there are the formidable challenges
facing Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner , who is accompanying
Clinton for the May 3-4 talks: currencies, intellectual property
rights, trade and investment.  The world’s most-vital economic relationship hasn’t been
this fraught with potential conflicts and points of disagreement
in years. It will take deft and visionary statecraft to keep
today’s headaches from damaging the future workings of the so-
called Group of Two.  Yawning Divides  Financial markets are used to Washington and Beijing
finding areas of agreement and downplaying the yawning divides
between their economic demands and aspirations. The trouble is
we’re fast running out of the easy areas of agreement.  The political climate limits the maneuvering room for
leadership in both countries. This year’s U.S. presidential
election coincides with the expected ascent of Chinese Vice
President  Xi Jinping  as the replacement for  Hu Jintao . Xi won’t
enjoy the honeymoon typically afforded new presidents. Not with
his economy slowing, China’s rich-poor gap widening and the
Communist Party beset by the biggest challenge to its legitimacy
since the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown on pro-democracy
protesters.  The state of economy is paramount to China’s leaders. The
social contract is this: We will make you wealthier, and you
don’t head to Tiananmen with protest banners. Yet China is
feeling the strain of a world economy in turmoil at a time when
its leaders fear an Arab Spring-like uprising at home. The
benefits of the hundreds of billions of dollars China tossed at
the economy since 2008 have worn off. All that’s left now are
asset bubbles, debt and several hundred million people wondering
why incomes aren’t rising faster than living costs.  The easiest remedy would be devaluing the  yuan  anew to
boost exports. Doing that would antagonize President  Barack Obama  and the presumptive Republican nominee,  Mitt Romney , but
China may decide the end justifies the means. The same goes for
the piracy that so angers the Walt Disney Co.’s and Apple Inc.’s
of the world. For better or worse, selling fake DVDs, sneakers
and electronics creates jobs. So does bending the  World Trade
Organization  to China’s benefit at the expense of everyone else.  Anyone who thinks Beijing and  Washington  will see eye to
eye on these and other issues is in denial. China knows that,
barring a major crash, it’s destined to surpass the  U.S. economy 
the way it overtook Japan.  Europe , after all, is turning to
China to bail out its failed single-currency experiment.  Beijing also knows what the U.S. has been slow to grasp:
American soft power is waning. Few countries aspire to the U.S.
model of capitalism after the demise of  Lehman Brothers , and the
shame of the prison at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, undermines any
claim to moral high ground. Chinese tolerance for lectures from
Americans on free markets and human rights is low.  Dollar Concerns  That goes for the dollar, too.  China  sees Federal Reserve
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke’s ultralow interest rates as a de facto
devaluation. That suspicion weakens U.S. argument for China to
revalue. It also touches on the prickly topic of China’s vast
dollar holdings. The U.S. currency is a crucial component of
China’s $3.3 trillion of reserves. Anything that depresses the
dollar will enrage China.  Yet China’s fragility was very much on display this week.
The Chen story may get the most headlines. China abhors anything
it perceives to be foreign meddling in its affairs. Reports that
the U.S. is sheltering the human-rights activist must have
Beijing powerbrokers doing back flips. The real fireworks,
though, may involve the spectacular fall of former Chongqing
bigwig Bo.  The U.S. was drawn into a sordid tale that involves
allegations of corruption, greed, murder and wiretapping of top
officials. The story spun out of Beijing’s control and made
headlines worldwide when Bo’s former police chief sought asylum
in a U.S. consulate while claiming that Bo’s wife was involved
in killing a British businessman. China is abuzz with conspiracy
theories about a U.S. campaign to foment discord. This scandal
is nothing short of a political earthquake.  The importance of maintaining constructive  U.S.-China
relations  is lost on no one. The G-2 is the linchpin of an
unsteady world economy, and keeping the peace is vital to
averting financial upheaval and restoring growth. Yet Clinton,
Geithner and their Chinese counterparts may find that ensuring
the status quo is beyond their grasp.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the View editors on the upside of  Greek
dysfunction  and the U.S. Senate’s attempt to  reform the Postal
Service ;  Margaret Carlson  on the  Romney campaign’s ad strategy ;
 Peter Orszag  on  flawed economic forecasting ; Clive Crook on the
 dogma of inequality .  Today’s highlights:  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 