-- Imperial Tobacco Profit Gain Matches Estimates on Prices
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-05-01T16:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/imperial-tobacco-profit-gain-matches-estimates-on-prices.html
Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT) ,  Europe ’s
second-biggest tobacco company, reported growth in first-half
earnings that matched analysts’ estimates after raising prices
for cigarettes across its main U.K. market.  Adjusted operating profit rose 3 percent to 1.52 billion
pounds ($2.5 billion) in the six months ended March 31, the
Bristol, England-based company said today, equaling the median
 estimate  of four  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Imperial Tobacco  is market leader in the U.K., where profit
rose 9 percent after price increases in October and March.
Selling volume in Britain rose 6.5 percent as some smokers
switched to cheaper brands such as JPS Silver, or to fine-cut
tobacco. British consumers “continue to economize,” Chief
Executive Officer Alison Cooper said in a statement.  “Underlying profits are going up in the U.K., and that’s
the most important thing,”  Chris Wickham , an analyst at Oriel
Securities, said in a phone interview.  Imperial Tobacco  rose  3.7 percent to 2,556 pence at 4:35
p.m. in London trading, the  third-biggest gainer  in the
benchmark  FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)   In the U.K., enduring its first double-dip recession since
the 1970s, Imperial Tobacco sales rose 12 percent even as the
overall market declined by 2 percent. The company controls about
45 percent of the British cigarette market and got 21 percent of
tobacco profit from the country in the first half.  Declining Volume  The shift by consumers toward cheaper brands led to a
contraction in the company’s U.K. operating profit margin to
65.5 percent of sales from 67.2 percent a year earlier. The
margin should widen in the second half of the year, Cooper said
today in a meeting with analysts.  “If I look at the U.K. market, even though you can see
declines in the cigarette market, we’ve got growth in fine-cut,
and that’s coming through very strongly,” Cooper said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.”  The total quantity of cigarettes sold by Imperial Tobacco
fell 1 percent in the second quarter, improving on a 7 percent
decline in the first three months of the year.  In  Spain , which yesterday announced it had plunged into its
second recession since 2009, Imperial boosted its leading share
of the market with increased sales of Fortuna cigarettes, fine-
cut tobacco, and Cuban cigars. Those were “positive signs” in
a market that the company expects to contract about 9 percent in
2012, Cooper said in a teleconference with reporters.  ‘Beyond Dreadful’  “External conditions present challenges, but we have
consistently demonstrated our ability to grow our business in
such environments,” Cooper said in the statement.  Profit fell 21 percent in the Americas, a market that
Oriel’s Wickham called “beyond dreadful.” Imperial has
installed a new management team and integrated its cigarette and
cigar sales forces to improve sales in the U.S., where “we have
work to do” to counter declining volume and market share,
Cooper said.  Altria Group Inc. (MO) , the largest seller of tobacco in the
U.S., last week reported a 3.8 percent increase in first-quarter
profit, helped by an increase in Marlboro’s market share and
higher prices. Also last week,  Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the third-largest
U.S. cigarette maker, posted first-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates on a 2.7 decline in shipments.  Emerging Markets  As well as higher prices,  tobacco companies  are relying on
growth in  emerging markets  to offset declining consumption and
rising government levies in western Europe and  North America .  Cooper said she was “pleased” with sales in Russia,
 Australia  and  Taiwan . Australia has passed a law, challenged by
tobacco companies, requiring cigarettes to be sold in uniform
packages starting in December. The U.K. government is also
holding consultations on plain packaging, which Cooper said is
“an unnecessary move, not supported by any credible evidence.”  Volume for the company’s largest brand, Gauloises Blondes,
rose 11 percent over the six-month period, helped by sales in
the  Middle East  and North Africa.  Net revenue from tobacco rose 3.3 percent at constant
exchange rates to 3.39 billion pounds in the first half, the
company said. The cigarette maker raised its interim dividend 13
percent to 31.7 pence a share and said it will continue buying
back shares at a rate of 500 million pounds a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  