-- Indonesia’s Inflation Accelerates to Seven-Month High of 4.5%
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i
-- 2012-05-01T04:58:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/indonesia-s-inflation-accelerates-to-seven-month-high-of-4-5-.html
Indonesia’s inflation accelerated to a
seven-month high in April, rising above 4 percent and putting
pressure on the central bank to hold off on further cuts in
 interest rates .  Consumer prices  rose 4.5 percent last month from a year
earlier, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said in Jakarta today.
That compares with a 3.97 percent increase reported in March.
The  median  of 17 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
4.46 percent gain.  Indonesia’s central bank left its  benchmark rate  unchanged
at 5.75 percent for a second month in April after cutting the
rate in February. Inflation risks have persisted even after the
government was forced to postpone an increase in subsidized fuel
prices, as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s administration
now plans to limit the sale of subsidized fuel for certain
vehicles to cap energy costs and contain the  budget deficit .  “ Bank Indonesia  is fighting against inflationary
expectations,”  Anton Gunawan , an economist at PT Bank Danamon
Indonesia, said in Jakarta before the report. “As long as
there’s no certainty in the subsidized fuel policy, inflationary
pressure will remain.”  The nation’s currency was little changed 9,182 per dollar
as of 11:08 a.m. in Jakarta, according to prices compiled by
local banks.  Consumer prices climbed 0.21 percent in April from the
previous month, today’s report showed.  Core inflation  was 4.24
percent, compared with a previously reported 4.25 percent pace
in March.  Exports rose 5.5 percent in March from a year earlier, the
statistics agency said, after gaining 8.5 percent in February.
Imports rose 13.4 percent from a year earlier.  Inflation in April was held up by higher prices of food
such as chili, onions and sugar because of declining supplies,
according to the statistics bureau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  