-- Indonesia Chases China As Middle-Class Consumption Soars
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2012-05-01T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/indonesia-chases-china-as-middle-class-consumption-soars.html
In May 1998, Indonesia was in turmoil.
During the previous 10 months, the currency had plunged 80
percent in value and food prices had soared 200 percent. Rioters
were marauding through Jakarta, torching businesses owned by
wealthier ethnic Chinese, who were fleeing for their lives.  Safely ensconced in  Hong Kong , where he was on vacation, an
Indonesian-Chinese retailer named Djoko Susanto could have sat
tight. Instead, he flew home to defend his four supermarkets
from the mob. As he transited Singapore, where planes were
arriving from Indonesia full and returning empty, the airline’s
crew stared at him in disbelief.  “There were five people on my flight,” Susanto recalls.
“And I was the only Chinese.”  While he couldn’t save his stores -- all four were looted
to the last light bulb -- Susanto was on hand to seize an
opportunity that would make him a billionaire, Bloomberg Markets
reports in its June issue.  More than 1,100 people died in the 1998 riots, and the
economy contracted 13 percent that year. Doomsayers predicted
that the world’s fourth-most-populous nation, a former Dutch
colony spanning 17,500 disparate islands, would fragment.  Susanto -- who as a child had slept under a mosquito net on
the dirt floor beside his impoverished parents’ market stall --
bet that  Indonesia  would survive and that its vast mineral and
agricultural resources would enrich many of its 238 million
citizens, creating a dynamic consumption-driven economy.  6,000 Stores  When that happened, Susanto reasoned, many Indonesians
would prefer to shop locally in air-conditioned minimarts rather
than at traditional roadside shacks, or warungs.  In October 1999, barely a year after the riots, Susanto
opened the first of what’s now a chain of 6,000 stores called
Alfamarts.  The investment proved prescient. From 1999 through the end
of 2011, Indonesia’s annual growth  surged  from zero to 6.5
percent, swelling the number of middle-class consumers by 50
million to more than 130 million, according to the  World Bank .  During the same period, the average wealth per adult jumped
fivefold to more than $12,000, Credit Suisse Group AG  reported 
in October.  While some other fast-developing countries such as  China 
struggle to switch from an export-led to a consumption-based
growth model, Indonesia is ahead of the game:  Consumer spending 
accounted for 55 percent of gross domestic product in 2011; the
comparable figure for China in 2010 was 35 percent.  ‘Consumption Engine’  “Indonesia is being driven by this huge consumption
engine,” says Pong Ho Yin, a Hong Kong-based fund manager at
Allianz Global Investors, which oversees 279 billion euros ($370
billion) worldwide. “The opportunity that is coming from this
phenomenon is going to be enormous.”  Pong, who runs Munich-based Allianz’s Indonesia fund, says
he believes that the country with the world’s biggest Muslim
population could soon be ranked alongside the emerging BRIC
giants:  Brazil ,  Russia ,  India  and China.  In the last quarter of 2011, Indonesia’s GDP growth, while
lagging China’s 8.9 percent, exceeded India’s 6.1 percent,
Russia’s 4.8 percent and Brazil’s 1.4 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  In the future, Indonesia, with a  median population  age of
27, may reach a growth rate of 8 percent, Pong says. China’s
one-child policy has left behind an aging workforce.  “I can’t imagine Indonesia won’t catch up,” he says.  In this economic environment, Susanto has thrived. In 2009,
he sold 10 percent of the shares in his company,  PT Sumber
Alfaria Trijaya (AMRT) , on the Indonesia Stock Exchange, raising 135
billion rupiah ($15 million).  Consumer Power  As of May 1, the stock had climbed more than 13-fold
 compared with  a threefold increase in the Jakarta Composite
Index. On May 1, Susanto’s 56 percent  stake  was worth about 11.4
trillion rupiah, or $1.24 billion.  Not bad for an entrepreneur who left school at 16 because
his parents couldn’t afford the fee demanded by the government
to change his Chinese name, Kwok Kwie Fo, to an Indonesian one,
as required by law.  Susanto says his bet on Indonesia stemmed from his
experiences in the 1998 riots as well as his conviction in the
potential economic power of the Indonesian consumer.  Though a victim of anti-Chinese policies under then-
dictator Suharto, who had closed Chinese schools and banned the
language, Susanto discovered that not all Indonesians were
antagonistic to the Chinese minority.  Rocketing Numbers  Some of his customers actually tried to protect his stores
and were grateful when he reopened for business after just two
weeks to provide them with essential supplies, according to his
daughter Feny Djoko Susanto, 35, who’s chief executive officer
of Sumber Alfaria.  Other companies have cashed in on Indonesian consumerism
almost as spectacularly as Susanto’s.  From the beginning of 2009 to May 1, the Jakarta Composite
was the world’s fifth-best-performing benchmark index out of 96
tracked by Bloomberg, returning 232 percent compared with a 70
percent rise in the  MSCI BRIC Index. (JCI)  Topping the list, with a
675 percent increase, is the Venezuela Stock Market Index, which
lists only 14 companies and is illiquid.  The rocketing numbers make Indonesian stocks look expensive
in the eyes of some investors, such as London-based Robert Davy,
who helps manage $20.3 billion of  emerging-markets  equities,
including Indonesian shares, at Schroder Investment Management
Ltd.  Largest Gold Mine  On May 1, the Jakarta index was trading at 14.3 times
estimated earnings compared with an emerging-markets average of
10.6.  “In the longer term, Indonesia is clearly highly
favorable,” Davy says. “But from the shorter-term perspective,
it is one of the more expensive emerging markets.”  Indonesia is the world’s No. 1 exporter of power-station
coal, tin and the  palm oil  that greases one-third of the world’s
frying pans and woks.  It’s also home to the largest gold mine and the single
biggest recoverable copper reserve and is the world’s second-
biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas.  Foreign direct investment -- the biggest  source  being
neighboring  Singapore  -- jumped 20 percent last year to a record
$19.3 billion.  In the space of five weeks in December and January, both
 Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors Service raised Indonesia’s
debt to investment grade.  Bankrupt Dictatorship  By contrast,  Standard & Poor’s  in January downgraded nine
European nations, five months after stripping the U.S. of its
AAA status.  “In the midst of downgrades, we have been upgrading,” says
Indonesian Vice President Boediono, who has a Ph.D. in economics
from the  University of Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School. (Like many
Indonesians, Boediono has only one name.)  The ratings firms’ confidence reflects Indonesia’s ascent
from bankrupt dictatorship to fiscally stable democracy. After
declaring independence from the Dutch in 1945, the country had
just two leaders during the next 53 years.  The second of them, Suharto, was president from 1967 until
he was forced to step down during the 1998 turmoil sparked by an
Asia-wide financial crisis that Indonesia survived only by
accepting a $43 billion bailout from the  International Monetary
Fund .  Under Suharto, businesses in favor with the government
exploited an economy reliant on crude oil exports. IMF crisis-
management measures began to change that, forcing the breakup of
some monopolies.  Western-Educated Technocrats  From 1998 to 2004, three more presidents came and went
before the election of Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, who was
returned for a second, and final, five-year term in 2009.  When Yudhoyono, 62, a retired general who underwent some
military training in the U.S., came to power, he sprinkled his
administration with Western-educated technocrats such as
Boediono, who ran the central bank before becoming vice
president.  Yudhoyono pledged to attract more investment by cutting
 interest rates , fighting  endemic corruption , raising  living
standards  and fixing crumbling roads and power stations.  While much of that manifesto remains a work in progress,
he’s delivered political stability and a fourfold increase in
foreign direct investment.  Yudhoyono also declared war on Islamic militants; his
forces arrested or killed scores of suspected terrorists,
including the masterminds of the 2002 bombings on the resort
island of Bali in which 202 people died.  ‘Biggest Uncertainty’  Although ethnic and religious tensions remain in some parts
of Indonesia, Yudhoyono has dismantled Suharto’s anti-Chinese
policies. And Glodok, Jakarta’s Chinatown, has risen from the
ashes -- brightly festooned with once-banned Chinese-language
banners and signs.  Still, Allianz fund manager Pong says he’s worried about
the post-Yudhoyono years.  “It’s the biggest uncertainty,” he says. “There has to be a
reform-minded leader.”  “I don’t think we should be nervous,” Boediono says.  Sipping tea beneath a crystal chandelier in the vice
presidential residence, a century-old Dutch-colonial-era
mansion, Boediono, 69, says the stability of the past eight
years will continue even though there’s no obvious successor to
Yudhoyono.  “At the moment, people here are searching for good
candidates, and I think we will find them,” he says. “Our public
is quite smart.”  Car Jockeys  In the meantime, the government is tackling some of the
world’s most dysfunctional infrastructure.  Yudhoyono campaigned for office on a promise to unclog
roads, ports, railways and air terminals and to build badly
needed power stations.  In December, the parliament passed legislation making it
easier for the government to acquire land for infrastructure
construction, and Yudhoyono’s government says it wants to spend
$18 billion this year on such projects.  Jakarta has a population of 10 million and no subway.
Traffic is frequently gridlocked despite a pooling program that
requires cars to carry a driver and at least two passengers at
peak hours.  Just as pedestrians hire cabs in other cities, Jakarta
drivers hire passengers to cheat the system, providing much-
needed employment to thousands of so-called car jockeys -- men,
women, children, often entire families -- who line up curbside
and wave to signal their availability.  Promise With ‘Legs’  Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest construction- and
mining-equipment maker, is betting that Yudhoyono will succeed.
It announced in November that it will triple excavator
production in Indonesia and spend $150 million to build its
second manufacturing base in the country.  “Infrastructure has been promised in the past and not
delivered,” says Kevin Thieneman, the Peoria, Illinois-based
company’s country manager for China, India and  Southeast Asia .
“But this time, we believe it has legs.”  Indonesia’s transportation problems -- and its ambition to
overcome them -- are starkly apparent on the western tip of the
island of Java, near where the volcano Krakatoa smolders. There,
the 24-kilometer-wide (15-mile-wide) Sunda Strait divides
Indonesia’s two most populous islands: Java, with 137 million
people, and Sumatra, with 51 million.  Unstable Geology  At ramshackle ports on either side of the strait, snaking
queues of trucks wait for up to three days to get berths on
rusting ferries to cross the narrow seaway. Despite the unstable
geology -- 170,000 died or went missing after an earthquake and
tsunami off Sumatra in 2004, and an 8.6 magnitude temblor
panicked Indonesians as recently as April -- Yudhoyono’s
government says it wants to spend $10 billion on the world’s
longest suspension bridge, to be built across the strait.  For Johan Sinaga, a 35-year-old truck driver, the bridge
can’t come soon enough. Dragging on a clove cigarette in the
shimmering heat at the Java port of Merak, Sinaga says he
regularly slips port officials 50,000 to 100,000 rupiah in
tembak -- literally, shoot -- to jump the queue.  Whether or not Indonesia can fix its infrastructure, Djoko
Susanto’s company stands to benefit.  If the roads and power stations are improved, Sumber
Alfaria will be able to make speedier deliveries and its
minimarts will have stable electricity supplies. If nothing
changes, the company also profits.  Ever the Entrepreneur  So says Susanto’s son and company board member, Budiyanto
Djoko Susanto, 30, reasoning that as the traffic jams worsen,
Indonesians will find it more convenient to shop at a corner
Alfamart than to battle through traffic to the nearest
supermarket.  Ever the entrepreneur, the elder Susanto has turned
congestion on the streets into an advertising opportunity. He
has plastered his delivery vans with slogans urging gridlocked
motorists to save time and hassle -- by driving to the nearest
Alfamart to shop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net . Femi Adi In Jakarta at   fadi1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  