-- Indonesia’s Sulawesi Cocoa Exports More Than Double in April
-- B y   E k o   L i s t i y o r i n i   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 2012-05-01T07:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/indonesia-s-sulawesi-cocoa-shipments-more-than-double-correct-.html
Cocoa-bean shipments from  Indonesia ’s
main growing region on Sulawesi island more than doubled in
April, climbing for the first month this year, after exporters
released stockpiles as harvests may peak.  Overseas shipments from Central and South Sulawesi
provinces jumped 126 percent to 7,912 metric tons last month
from March, according to data released today by the Indonesia
Cocoa Association. Sales were 1,570 tons in April last year.  Increased shipments from the world’s third-biggest producer
of the chocolate ingredient may help to halt the 5 percent gain
in prices in New York this year, potentially easing the cost for
Hershey Co. and  Nestle SA. (NESN)  Ivory Coast and  Ghana  are the largest
and second-biggest cocoa producers.  Exports may climb further as the country’s main harvest
season may peak this month or in June, La Odi Mandong, secretary
at the association’s South Sulawesi branch, said by phone from
Makassar.  The two provinces represent about 75 percent of bean
exports and output from Indonesia. Shipments from the region in
the first four months of the year dropped 45 percent from a year
earlier to 18,826 tons, association data showed.  July-delivery Cocoa futures fell 3.9 percent to $2,219 a
ton on the ICE Futures U.S. in  New York  yesterday.  Indonesia’s cocoa production may drop more than 11 percent
in the next five years to below 400,000 tons as farmers switch
acres to more lucrative oil-palm and rubber crops, Zulhefi Sikumbang, chairman of the cocoa association, said March 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net ;
Eko Listiyorini in Jakarta at 
 elistiyorini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  