-- Hindustan Unilever Net Beats Estimates on Soaps, Shampoos
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-05-02T06:38:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/hindustan-unilever-net-beats-estimates-on-soaps-shampoos.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-largest consumer goods company,
surged to a record after profit rose 21 percent, exceeding
analysts’ estimates.  Net income  jumped to 6.87 billion rupees ($130 million) in
the quarter ended March 31, from 5.69 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based maker of Sunsilk shampoo and Knorr
soups said in a statement yesterday. That beat the 6.44 billion-
rupee median of 30  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Shares of the company climbed as much as 3.9 percent to
433.9 rupees in Mumbai trading, the highest since at least
January 1991. They were up 2.6 percent as of 12 p.m. The stock
has risen 5.1 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent
advance in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   The introduction of high-end products and higher sales of
laundry detergents boosted revenue by 16 percent to 56.6 billion
rupees. The company wants to boost sales of products such as
fabric conditioner and face wash, Chief Executive Officer Nitin Paranjpe said in an interview in February.  “Personal products continue to do well, largely driven by
volume growth,” said  Sameer Narang , an analyst at HDFC
Securities Ltd. “In the soaps and detergent business also they
have been able to get some volume traction.”  Soaps, Detergents  Revenue from selling soaps and detergents rose 29 percent
to 28.3 billion rupees in the fourth quarter. Sales of personal-
care products gained 17 percent to 17.1 billion rupees.  Higher sales of shampoos such as Sunsilk and skin products
such as Ponds boosted the personal-care products’ business,
Chief Financial Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy said on a call with
reporters. Higher volumes and price increases drove up soaps and
detergents revenue, he said.  “They’re trying to premiumize their product portfolio,”
said Shivani Mehra, an analyst with Techno Shares & Stocks Ltd.
“The premiumization would lead to growth, with different
product launches.”  Parent  Unilever (ULVR)  on April 26 reported first-quarter revenue
growth that beat estimates and outstripped competitors  Danone (BN) 
and  Nestle SA (NESN) , led by Dove skincare and Tresemme hair products.
Underlying sales, which exclude acquisitions, disposals and
currency fluctuations, grew 8.4 percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  