-- Turkey Credit Rating Outlook Cut by S&P on Worsening Trade
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-05-01T15:10:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/lira-weakens-after-s-p-revises-turkey-s-outlook-to-stable.html
Standard & Poor’s  cut its outlook for
Turkey’s long-term foreign and local currency credit ratings to
stable from positive, citing concern about external demand and
terms of trade.  “Less-buoyant external demand and worsening terms of trade
-- the price of exports compared to imports -- have, in our
view, made economic rebalancing more difficult, and have
increased the risks to Turkey’s creditworthiness given its high
external debt and the state budget’s reliance on indirect tax
revenues,” S&P said.  Turkey’s gross external financing needs will reach the
equivalent of 142 percent of its current account receipts plus
usable reserves this year, “one of the highest ratios for a
rated sovereign,” S&P said. “This heavy reliance on external
savings exposes Turkey to shocks,” it said.  Turkey’s central bank has sought to rein in loan growth it
blames for fueling the largest  current-account deficit  among
 emerging markets  by adjusting  interest rates  on a daily basis
between 5.75 percent and 11.5 percent. Depreciation in the lira
last year sent  inflation  to the highest level in three years at
10.5 percent.  ‘No Lasting Impact’  The outlook cut “should have no lasting impact given that
expectations on an upgrade by them was rather low in the market
to start with,” Arko Sen, chief debt and currency strategist
for emerging  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa at Bank of America
Corp. in  London , said in an e-mailed comment.  The lira weakened after the statement, retreating as much
as 0.3 percent to 1.7632 per dollar, before recovering to trade
less than 0.1 percent stronger at 1.7558 as of 5:59 p.m. in
Istanbul. Turkey’s  bond  and  stock markets  were closed today for
a public holiday.  S&P affirmed Turkey’s long-term foreign currency sovereign
credit ratings at BB, the second-highest non-investment grade.  Fitch Ratings  cut Turkey’s long-term foreign currency
outlook to stable from positive in November, citing the
country’s current account deficit. Fitch rates Turkey at BB+,
one step below investment grade. Turkey’s foreign-currency debt
is rated Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the equivalent level
to S&P’s, with a positive outlook.  ‘Unorthodox Policy’  The “problem is the international community just do not
like the central bank’s unorthodox policy in context of wide
current account and external financing needs,” Tim Ash, head of
emerging markets at the Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in
London, said in an e-mailed note.  Turkey’s dollar-denominated bond due in 2022 rose, cutting
the yield 10 basis points to 4.894 percent.  “I am more positive than S&P,” Aurelija Augulyte, an
emerging-market analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, said in
e-mailed comments. “As long as the global markets are at least
stable the Turkish economy will keep rebalancing gradually and
the oil price decline in the short term will help.”  Crude oil for June delivery fell 9 cents to $104.78 a
barrel today on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, down from
$109.77 on Feb. 24.  Turkey’s trade deficit declined to $7.35 billion in March
from $9.8 billion a year earlier, the state statistics office in
Ankara said on its website yesterday as exports rose 12 percent
and imports fell 4.8 percent in the month.  Turkish exports decreased 2.9 percent in April from a year
earlier to $11.4 billion, the nation’s Assembly of Exporters
said in an e-mailed statement today.  The cost to protect against default on Turkish debt using
credit-default swaps on Turkey fell five basis points to 227,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately-negotiated market.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Turkey ’s dollar-
denominated sovereign bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries dropped
four basis points to 300, JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global
index shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  