-- Iraq’s April Crude Oil Exports Rose to Highest in ‘Decades’
-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-05-01T08:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/iraq-s-april-crude-oil-exports-rose-to-highest-in-decades-1-.html
Iraq  boosted crude oil exports in
April to an average of 2.51 million barrels a day, the highest
level “in decades,” the head of the State Oil Marketing
Organization said.  Crude exports rose 8.3 percent last month from 2.32 million
barrels a day in March, Falah al-Amri said in a telephone
interview in  Baghdad  today. Oil sales in April generated $8.8
billion in revenue compared with $8.47 billion in the previous
month, according to the SOMO website.  Iraq exported 2.12 million barrels a day by sea from the
southern terminal of Basra and 387,000 million barrels a day
from the northern oil hub of Kirkuk through a pipeline to
 Turkey , al-Amri said. It also sent 6,000 barrels a day by road
into neighboring Jordan, he said.  The Middle Eastern nation holds the world’s fifth-largest
oil reserves, according to data from BP Plc that include
Canadian  oil sands . Iraq produced 2.89 million barrels a day of
crude in April, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and
expects to increase output to 3.4 million barrels a day by the
end of the year.  The country depends on crude sales for money to rebuild the
economy after decades of war and sanctions. It has awarded 15
energy-exploration licenses to foreign companies since the U.S.-
led invasion of 2003 and plans to auction more drilling rights
on May 30.  Al-Amri didn’t specify when Iraq last exported as much oil
as it did last month other than to say it was “decades” ago.
Asim Jihad, an Oil Ministry spokesman, said on April 1 that
exports in March were at the highest since 1980, one year after
former President  Saddam Hussein  came to power.  Exports gained in April even as the self-ruled Kurdish
region of northern Iraq stopped pumping crude on April 1 through
a pipeline controlled by the central government. The halt came
amid a dispute over the sharing of revenue from oil pumped at
Kurdish fields.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net ; or
Kadhim Ajrash through the Dubai newsroom;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  