-- U.S. Manufacturing Grows at Fastest Pace in a Year
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-05-01T20:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ism-index-of-u-s-manufacturing-increased-to-54-8-in-april.html
Manufacturing grew in April at the
fastest pace in almost a year, propelled by a pickup in orders
that signaled factories will remain a source of strength for the
U.S. expansion.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  factory index  climbed
to 54.8 last month, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey and the best reading since June, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  The world’s largest economy may pick up after slowing in
the first three months of the year as the increase in bookings
indicates American assembly lines will keep churning out more
goods. Combined with a report showing manufacturing in  China 
also accelerated, the figures sent the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  to the highest level since 2007 as the data eased
concern global growth was slackening.  Manufacturing “continues to be a bright spot in the
recovery,” said Ellen Zentner, a senior U.S. economist at
Nomura Securities International Inc. in  New York . “We have yet
to see a drop-off in foreign demand for U.S.-manufactured goods,
and that comes despite all the concerns of a slowdown in the
global economy.”  The Dow gained 0.5 percent to close at 13,279.32 at the
close in New York. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury
note rose to 1.95 percent from 1.91 percent late yesterday.  Elsewhere, China’s manufacturing expanded for a fifth month
in April to reach the highest level in a year. The news wasn’t
universally good as a  U.K. manufacturing  index fell more than
forecast in April as export orders fell the most since May 2009.  Survey Results  The  median forecast  in a Bloomberg News survey of 79
economists projected the ISM index would drop to 53 from a
reading of 53.4 in March. Estimates ranged from 52 to 54. The
gauge averaged 55.2 in 2011 and 57.3 a year earlier.  The group’s orders gauge climbed to the highest level in a
year, while its production measure put it its best performance
since March 2011 and employment advanced to a 10-month high,
today’s report showed. The group’s export index also improved.  “We seem to have good, strong order books filling up for
the next few months, and that bodes well,” Bradley Holcomb,
chairman of the ISM’s factory survey said in a telephone
interview. “Things are moving forward and moving forward at a
good sustainable level, not indicating at this point any
slowdowns.”  Auto Sales  Stronger auto production bolstered the  U.S. economy  from
January through March, which may keep supporting manufacturing.
Motor vehicle output added 1.12 percentage points to growth, the
most since the third quarter of 2009 and accounting for half of
the 2.2 percent increase in gross domestic product. Cars last
quarter  sold  at the fastest pace in four years, according to
industry data.  The pickup in demand is holding up so far in the second
quarter. Chrysler Group LLC led the five largest automakers by
U.S. sales in exceeding analysts’ estimates for April.
Chrysler’s sales climbed 20 percent and Toyota Motor Corp.’s
deliveries rose 12 percent. Purchases were little changed at a
14.38 million annual rate last month after 14.32 million in
March, according to data from Ward’s Automotive Group.  Manufacturers mentioned gains in automotive and high-
technology industries, the Fed said in its Beige Book business
survey, published April 11. The firms “expressed optimism about
near-term growth prospects, but they are somewhat concerned
about rising petroleum prices,” the Fed said in the report.  Industrial Demand  3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of fuel system tune-up kits and  Post-it
Notes , posted first-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates
because of rising U.S. auto and industrial demand. The  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based company’s industrial and transportation unit
posted sales of $2.66 billion, an 8.6 percent increase.  At the same time, other areas may not be helping to support
manufacturing in coming months. Business spending on equipment
and software in the first quarter rose at the weakest in almost
three years, a Commerce Department report showed last week.  Overseas demand for U.S. made-goods also risks fading as
global growth slows.  Spain ’s economy contracted in the first
quarter, putting the euro region’s fourth-largest economy into
its second recession since 2009. The U.K. economy shrank 0.2
percent in the first quarter after contracting 0.3 percent in
the prior three months as Britain slid into its first double dip
recession since the 1970s.  ‘Uneven’ Economy  “The global economy is uneven,” John Faraci, chairman and
chief executive officer of  International Paper Co. (IP) , said during
an April 27 earnings call. “We got a recession going on in
Western Europe. The growth has slowed in China and  India . And
North Americas is a recovering but far from fully recovered
economic environment.”  Another report today showed construction spending in the
U.S. grew less than forecast in March as state and local
government agencies continued to pull back. The 0.1 percent
increase followed a 1.4 percent decline in February that was
larger than previously estimated, the Commerce Department
reported. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for a 0.5 percent increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  