-- J&J New CEO’s Takeover Watch Spans Edwards to St. Jude: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-05-01T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/j-j-new-ceo-s-takeover-watch-spans-edwards-to-st-jude-real-m-a.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s pursuit of growth
through acquisitions could put companies from  Edwards
Lifesciences Corp. (EW)  to St. Jude Medical Inc. on its wish list.  A year after J&J announced the biggest acquisition in its
126-year history, newly appointed Chief Executive Officer  Alex Gorsky  is now looking to takeovers to bolster the medical-device
unit with products such as heart valves, according to an
interview last week with Bloomberg News. J&J’s own
 cardiovascular sales  have fallen for five straight years, the
only business in its medical device division to shrink.  Gorsky, who started as CEO last week after overseeing J&J’s
medical devices, takes over a company beset by more than 50
recalls on products from Children’s Tylenol to artificial hips
since 2010. The world’s second-biggest seller of health-care
products could command half the global market for heart valves
by buying Edwards, which analysts say will boost earnings more
than any cardiovascular device maker in the next three years,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. With St. Jude, J&J would get a
company with the industry’s highest  operating margins .  “If J&J is interested in remaining relevant in cardiology,
it’s important for them to create another beachhead,” Jeff McCormack, a senior equity analyst for Fairport, New York-based
Manning & Napier Inc., which oversees about $40 billion, said in
a telephone interview. In the cardiology market, “size is going
to matter. So it might be a good time for a company like J&J to
begin to identify who they envision to be winners,” he said.  He said Edwards and St. Jude are among the cardiovascular
device makers that make the most sense for J&J to acquire.  Cardiovascular Commitment  Today, Edwards rose 2.2 percent to $84.78 a share, the
biggest advance in the 17-stock Bloomberg Industries Global
Interventional Cardiology Index.  Shares of St. Jude gained 0.9 percent to $39.05.  “We do not comment on rumors or speculation,” Michael A. Mussallem, CEO of  Irvine , California-based Edwards, said in an
e-mail when asked whether the company had been approached by J&J
or would be open to a sale. “We run Edwards for the long-term
and we are very excited about what the future holds.”  Amy Jo Meyer, a spokeswoman for  St. Paul , Minnesota-based
St. Jude, also declined to comment on whether it has been
approached by J&J or would consider selling itself.  Bill Price , a spokesman for  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based
J&J, declined to comment on J&J’s acquisition plans or whether
it is interested in either Edwards or St. Jude.  “When there are large opportunities that we think can give
us more strategic advantage we will obviously take a look,”
Gorsky said in a telephone interview on April 25. “We remain
committed to cardiovascular,” he said, even after sales
decreased 44 percent since 2006.  Quality Control  His comments came a year after J&J announced its takeover
of Synthes Inc., the world’s biggest maker of devices to treat
bone fractures and trauma, for $21.3 billion in cash and stock.  Accounting for the cash and debt Synthes holds, the
transaction will be the largest for a medical-products company
and exceed J&J’s $16.6 billion deal for Pfizer Inc.’s consumer
health-care business in 2006, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The Synthes deal is expected to close by June, the data show.  Gorsky is focused on acquisitions as product recalls and
quality control issues caused J&J’s shares to underperform its
competitors. Shares of J&J rose 24 percent in the past three
years through yesterday, half the average  gain  for health-care
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the benchmark
gauge for American common equity.  J&J has recalled millions of packets of Tylenol, Motrin,
Benadryl and other over-the-counter medicines due to foul odors,
adulterated ingredients and bad labeling, which undermined its
reputation for quality and safety.  Artificial Valves  The $179 billion health-care company was knocked from one
of the top two spots in Harris Interactive’s annual consumer
poll of corporate images this year for the first time in 13
years, falling to seventh.  J&J also faces more than 6,000 lawsuits from patients who
received faulty artificial hips that were recalled in 2010, as
well as more than 550 lawsuits by women who blame vaginal mesh
implants made by J&J’s Ethicon unit for internal injuries.  J&J, which last year exited the market for the drug-coated
heart stents that it pioneered after competition pushed down
prices, could now look to acquire Edwards to expand its share of
faster-growing and more profitable cardiovascular devices to
stem its revenue decline, according to  Joanne Wuensch , a New
York-based analyst for BMO Capital Markets.  Edwards, the largest maker of artificial heart valves
worldwide, has increased sales for 10 straight years and
controlled about 47 percent of the $2.2 billion market for the
devices last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Less Invasive  Analysts project the company’s earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization will climb 66 percent to
$812 million by 2015 from an estimated $490 million this year,
the data show. That’s more than any maker of cardiovascular
devices with at least $1 billion in revenue in the past 12
months and three times faster than J&J itself.  Edwards, valued at $9.5 billion, won approval from the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration in November for its Sapien
transcatheter  heart valve , the first less-invasive heart valve
to be marketed in the U.S. to treat patients who are too sick
for chest-opening surgery. Edwards said the device will bring in
as much as $600 million in sales this year, almost a third of
its  revenue  that analysts project will approach $2 billion.  J&J’s cardiovascular unit had $2.3 billion in sales last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  “J&J has been quite public for some time about wanting to
get into heart valves, particularly transcatheter heart
valves,” said BMO’s Wuensch. “To get there, they could buy
Edwards. Edwards has the only transcatheter heart valve on the
U.S. market at this stage. It’s one of the more interesting
medical technologies around right now.”  St. Jude, which makes defibrillators, pacemakers and heart
valves, could also attract J&J by giving it a broader range of
heart-related products, according to Jay Singhania, a  money
manager  at Dallas-based Westwood Holdings Group Inc., which
oversees $13.9 billion and owns shares of J&J and St. Jude.  Founded in 1976, St. Jude earned 26 cents in operating
income for every dollar of its $5.6 billion in sales in the last
12 months, the highest  operating margin  among cardiovascular
device makers with Ebitda growth that exceeds J&J’s and more
than double the industry median, the data show.  St. Jude, which has about 17 percent of the heart valve
market, also traded at 11.3 times  earnings  yesterday, the lowest
among comparable companies in either the U.S. or  Europe .  Moving the Needle  “J&J’s notably absent from heart valves and they got out
of the stent business, so they definitely have a hole there,”
Westwood’s Singhania said in a telephone interview. “St. Jude
would give them some optionality on some of these needle-moving
pipeline opportunities. St. Jude does look cheap.”  St. Jude, with a market value of $12.4 billion, has had to
grapple with its own safety issues in some of its older
products, which could deter J&J, according to  Glenn Novarro , a
New York-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets .  The journal HeartRhythm released a study in March showing
St. Jude’s Riata wires, used to connect life-saving
defibrillators to the heart, may fatally short-circuit and could
have led to 22 deaths. They were recalled last year. The company
will also stop selling the QuickSite and QuickFlex left-
ventricular wires after 39 reports of the wires protruding from
their insulation, the company said April 4.  While RBC Capital’s Novarro doesn’t anticipate any issues
occurring with St. Jude’s newer Durata-brand wires, it could
take at least a year before J&J considers a cardiovascular
device deal because of the time it needs to integrate Synthes.  ‘The Right Horses’  Gorsky should also spend J&J’s cash to bolster quality
control rather than relying on acquisitions to lift its shares,
according to  Matt McCormick , who helps oversee $6.2 billion at
Bahl & Gaynor Inc. in Cincinnati.  Shares of J&J advanced less than 5 percent during the 10-
year tenure of Gorsky’s predecessor, William C. Weldon,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “J&J needs to fix their current ‘house’ before they put on
an addition,” McCormick said in an e-mail. “An acquisition
would not fix the stock.”  For Thomas Gunderson, an analyst at Piper Jaffray Cos., the
chance for J&J to regain its position in the cardiovascular
device industry justifies the risk of doing another big deal.  “My view would be, ‘Go big or go home,’” he said.
“Cardio is a growth area and J&J has done well in the past
there. They just need the right horses to ride.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 