-- J&J Hip Patients Will Take ‘Bellwether’ Lawsuits to Trial
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h
-- 2012-05-01T20:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/j-j-hip-patients-will-take-bellwether-cases-to-trial-1-.html
Recipients of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  hip
implants recalled by the company will start going to trial later
this year to help determine liability and damages in more than
6,000 lawsuits, lawyers said today.  J&J’s DePuy unit recalled its 93,000 ASR hips worldwide in
2010, including 37,000 in the U.S., saying more than 12 percent
of the devices failed within five years. Lawsuits in federal and
state courts describe patients in pain and immobilized by joint
dislocations, infections and bone fractures.  Lawyers for patients and J&J, the world’s second-largest
health-care company, met with a judge overseeing the so-called
multi-district litigation in 4,200 federal lawsuits. Another
2,000 are in state courts. Both sides are negotiating a way to
choose suitable plaintiffs to help resolve whether J&J bears
blame and how much each case could be worth, lawyers said.  “The parties are in agreement that we would like to have a
bellwether trial,” J&J attorney Robert Tucker told U.S.
District Judge  David Katz  at a hearing in federal court in West
Palm Beach,  Florida .  Patients suing J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey ,
claim metal debris from the hips, made from a cobalt and
chromium alloy, causes tissue death around the joint and may
increase metal ions in the bloodstream to harmful levels.  ‘Acted Appropriately’  “DePuy is satisfied that the MDL process to address the
issues raised by this litigation is moving forward,”
spokeswoman Mindy Tinsley said in a statement. “DePuy will
defend itself against the allegations raised in the litigation
and believes the evidence will show company acted appropriately
and responsibly.”  The company said in January that it spent about
$800 million on the recall in the past two years, while it
wouldn’t estimate its product liability costs.  The first trial is scheduled to begin in state court in  Las
Vegas  in mid-December, plaintiffs’ attorney Ellen Relkin said in
an interview after the hearing. Another trial is slated for
January in state court in  Maryland , she said. The first federal
trial could be next March or April, she said.  The company has produced more than 37 million pages of
documents in discovery, Tucker told the judge at the hearing. He
works at Tucker Ellis LLP in  Cleveland .  By stacking that paper, “you would have seven towers equal
in height to the Empire State Building,” Tucker said.  Another defense attorney, Susan Sharko of Drinker Biddle &
Reath LLP in Florham Park, New Jersey, told Katz that lawyers
have conducted 22 days of depositions with company witnesses and
have another 32 days scheduled.  Katz, who normally sits in Toledo,  Ohio , held the status
conference in  West Palm Beach , where he spends the winter.  He said that he is overseeing “roughly 4,200” federal
cases, and “roughly half of that” are pending in state courts.  The federal case is In re DePuy Orthopedics Inc., ASR Hip
Implant Products Liability Litigation, 10-MD-2197, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Toledo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Susannah Nesmith in West Palm Beach, Florida, at
 susannahnesmith@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  