-- Japanese Stocks Fall; Australian Bond Yields Decline
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a
-- 2012-05-01T03:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/japanese-stocks-fall-australian-bond-yields-decline.html
Japanese  stocks  fell the most in two
weeks as companies predicted lower-than-estimated profits. The
Australian dollar fell and the nation’s 10-year bond yield slid
to a record low ahead of a forecast interest-rate cut today.  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slumped 1.2 percent as of
12:50 p.m. in  Tokyo , extending the first monthly drop since
November.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index added 0.7 percent and
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures climbed 0.1 percent. The
nation’s 10-year bond yields declined as much as six basis
points to 3.612 percent, while the currency weakened 0.3 percent
to $1.0400. Copper retreated 0.3 percent.  For the first time since the start of 2008, bonds were the
only investments to provide positive returns last month amid
renewed concern the global economy is slowing. The  Reserve Bank 
of Australia will cut its key rate to 4 percent from 4.25
percent, according to economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
 China ’s manufacturing grew for a fifth month in April, hurting
the case for policy makers to ease monetary policy.  “Investors can’t get optimistic about the Japanese
economy,” said Koji Toda, chief  fund manager  at Resona Bank
Ltd. in Tokyo. “The number of companies where earnings are
improving as much as investors’ expectations is relatively
small.”  Earnings Season  China, Hong Kong,  India , South Korea and Singapore were
among markets closed today for a holiday. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index slid for a second month in April, losing 1 percent.  Tokyo Electron Ltd., which produces semiconductor
manufacturing equipment, sank 9 percent for the biggest drop in
the Nikkei 225 after its earnings estimate trailed analysts’
projections.  Sharp Corp. (6753) , Japan’s biggest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, tumbled 8.7 percent after the company forecast
a wider-than-estimated annual loss.  Fixed-income assets -- from Australian government debt to
U.S. Treasuries to global junk bonds -- gained 0.57 percent last
month through April 27 including reinvested interest, according
to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI All-
Country World Index of stocks lost 1.1 percent including
dividends while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of
metals, fuels and agricultural products fell 0.5 percent. The
 U.S. Dollar Index (DXY)  dropped 0.29 percent.  The Australian dollar weakened against all of its 16 major
counterparts. The nation’s five-year rates slid as low as 3.06
percent, six basis points less than yesterday’s close.  “There’s still a downside risk for the Australian dollar,
given there’s uncertainty around  Europe  and weaker data
globally,” said Greg Gibbs, a Sydney-based currency strategist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Manufacturing Data  China’s Purchasing Managers’ Index rose to 53.3 from 53.1
in March, the nation’s statistics bureau and logistics
federation said in a statement today. The median forecast by
economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a reading of 53.6.
Results above 50 indicate expansion.  Investors will also get data on U.S. factories today. The
Institute for Supply Management Inc.’s manufacturing gauge fell
to 53 this month from 53.4 in March, according to the Bloomberg
survey median ahead of the data today. Pfizer Inc., Archer
Daniels Midland Co. and Legg Mason Inc. are among S&P 500
companies scheduled to report earnings.  Brent oil for June settlement retreated 0.1 percent to
$119.33 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. Oil in  New York  traded near the lowest close in two
days before a government report that may show crude inventories
rose to a 21-year high in the U.S., the world’s biggest consumer
of the commodity.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  