-- Jefferson County Readies for Austerity With No State Help
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/jefferson-county-readies-for-austerity-with-no-state-help.html
Officials in bankrupt Jefferson County
are considering closing courts one day a week, stopping meal
delivery for the elderly poor and eliminating building
inspections in anticipation of the  Alabama  Legislature ending
its 2012 session without letting it raise taxes.  Even cut to the bone, it may be impossible for Alabama’s
most populous county, with 660,000 residents, to emerge from the
biggest municipal bankruptcy in U.S. history without more
revenue, Commissioner Jimmie Stephens said in a phone interview.  With no power to raise taxes, “cutting is the only tool
the Alabama Constitution gives us,” he said. “Everything will
be on the table, anything not mandated by the Constitution.”  The Legislature has seven working days left. So far, the
county’s 18-member local delegation has been unable to agree on
a tax increase or any other solution to Jefferson’s $40 million
annual budget shortfall -- and a single member can kill a bill.
A measure that would let the full body force a tax lacks public
backing from Republican Governor Robert Bentley, nor has the
governor put forth a plan of his own.  “The governor’s office has been in close and regular
contact with members of the Jefferson County delegation, and the
delegation must find common ground that provides the county with
the ability to successfully emerge from bankruptcy and put its
problems in the past,”  Jeremy King , a spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “Governor Bentley stands ready to continue working with
the delegation to find and implement a solution.”  No Held Breath  Democratic Representative  John Rogers  of Birmingham said
it’s already too late.  “We have seven days left and it takes at least five to
pass a local bill,” Rogers said in a phone interview. “I don’t
see it happening.”  Jefferson County’s financial demise began more than three
years ago, a product of corruption and bad bond deals involving
its sewer system. It became a crisis last year, after the state
 Supreme Court  struck down a 25-year-old wage tax that had
generated about $70 million per year -- about a quarter of the
county’s revenue.  The county cut 700 employees, reduced services and closed
satellite offices. It remains around $40 million short, Stephens
said.  Jefferson County filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
November after lawmakers failed to deliver their part of a
September bargain struck with holders of the county’s sewer
debt, led by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The agreement required the
Legislature to create an authority to oversee the sewer system
and to fix the county’s revenue situation.  Unhappy Banks  The bankruptcy was opposed by Bank of  New York  Mellon
Corp., trustee for more than $3 billion in sewer debt, and
JPMorgan, which owns more than $1 billion in sewer warrants,
 Bank of America Corp.  and  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp. (AGO)   State law allows legislators to control locally targeted
legislation, unless four-fifths of the state House of
Representatives or Senate overrides their wishes.  Jefferson County’s delegation hasn’t been able to agree on
any solution. Proposals have included replacing the wage tax,
replacing it temporarily, and removing legislative mandates that
the county use about $40 million in revenue from sales taxes for
indigent medical care and other special purposes.  Rogers is among Democrats who oppose a new tax, unless the
county agrees to rehire workers it cut over the past year, which
Stephens and County Manager Tony Petelos have said they’re
unwilling to do.  “That’s the opposite of what we’re trying to do,” said
Stephens. “We’re trying to become more efficient and
effective.”  Harming the Innocent  Rogers also opposes taking money from indigent care and any
new  sales tax  because it would disproportionately hurt poor
people: “These are people who haven’t stolen one dime, haven’t
committed any fraud like  Wall Street , and you’re going to take
away their medical care and tax them to death?”  Republicans oppose reinstating the tax for more than three
years, which Stephens said will not be enough to satisfy a
bankruptcy judge.  Representative Jack Williams, a Vestavia Hills Republican,
introduced a bill last week that would allow any Alabama county
in bankruptcy to raise taxes. Because it does not name Jefferson
County, it can pass without local lawmakers’ consent.  The bill is probably dead, in part because Bentley won’t
back it publicly, Williams said in a phone interview yesterday.  “I don’t think the House or the Senate has the patience
for an all-day debate on the floor about Jefferson County,” he
said. “Should the governor get engaged, that could change.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  