-- Jovine, Gubitosi Said to Be RCS CEO Frontrunners
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-05-01T21:16:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/jovine-gubitosi-said-to-be-rcs-ceo-frontrunners.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  said Luigi Gubitosi, its head of corporate and investment banking for
 Italy , won’t be joining publisher  RCS MediaGroup SpA. (RCS)   “Any suggestion that Luigi Gubitosi may be joining RCS is
wholly without foundation,” Bank of America spokesman John McIvor said in an e-mailed statement today.  Gubitosi and Pietro Scott Jovane, head of  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s
Italian unit, are frontrunners to become chief executive officer
of RCS, a person with knowledge of the matter said earlier
today, declining to be identified as the matter is private.
Microsoft spokesman Peter Wootton declined to comment.  The board of RCS, the publisher of Italy’s largest daily
newspaper  Corriere della Sera , will meet May 14 to appoint the
new CEO, said the person. RCS, based in Milan, is controlled by
a group of investors including carmaker  Fiat SpA (F)  and  Mediobanca
SpA (MB) , which have pooled shares in a voting syndicate that  owns
about 58 percent  of the publisher, according to market regulator
Consob.  Fiat and Mediobanca backed by  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  Chairman
Giovanni Bazoli and investor Giuseppe Rotelli pushed to reform
the company’s governance, the person said. All the investors in
the shareholder group agreed on the new governance arrangement,
the person said.  The group agreed April 4 to reduce the board to 12 members
from the current 21 as Fiat Chairman John Elkann and Mediobanca
asked for a smaller number of directors, with a majority of
independent members, the person said. The candidates proposed
before a shareholder meeting tomorrow include  UniCredit SpA (UCG) 
chairman-designate Giuseppe Vita, who’s also chairman of the
supervisory board of  Axel Springer AG (SPR) ,  Europe ’s largest
newspaper publisher.  ‘Right Direction’  “It’s a step in the right direction and it was about time
to do it,” Arturo Albano, managing director at Talete Corporate
Governance Consulting, said in an interview. “Having directors
who are not just the expression of the controlling investors but
have expertise and can give a contribution to the business is
very important.”  Outgoing CEO Antonello Perricone was named chief in 2006.
Under Perricone, RCS increased its presence in  Spain , where it
bought Recoletos Grupo de Comunicacion SA, now called Unidad
Editorial, to gain the country’s biggest sports and financial
newspapers, Marca and Expansion. RCS already controlled the
publisher of El Mundo, Spain’s second-biggest general news daily
after El Pais.  Losses  RCS had a net loss of 322 million euros ($426 million) for
2011 compared with profit of 7.2 million euros a year earlier,
it said March 16, citing continuing signs of recession in Spain
and Italy and the sovereign debt crisis, which it said will also
weigh on 2012 earnings.  Italian businessman Rotelli bought an additional stake in
the publisher last month, becoming its biggest individual
investor. Rotelli said April 6 that his Pandette Srl company
agreed to buy 5.2 percent of RCS for 53.7 million euros from
Partecipazioni Editoriali Srl, giving him control of about 17
percent of the  voting rights . The sale will take place after the
shareholder meeting of RCS and is subject to approval from
Partecipazioni Editoriali’s lenders.  Rotelli will be appointed as vice chairman of the group at
tomorrow’s annual general meeting, the person said.  RCS stock has halved in value in the past year to 66.2
cents, giving the publisher a market value of 497 million euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  