-- Kansas Wheat-Growth Boosts Yields as Glut May Erode Price
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-05-01T21:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/kansas-wheat-growth-boosts-yields-as-glut-may-erode-price.html
The fastest-ever development of the
 Kansas  wheat crop is drawing a record number of surveyors
seeking to gauge prospects for a harvest that is poised to swell
the world’s grain bins and drive prices lower.  Kansas, the top U.S. grower of winter wheat, will collect
45.8 bushels an acre when the harvest starts in May, the most
since 2003 and up from 35 bushels in 2011, based on the average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 10 analysts, some of which are
among the record 100 participants expected in this year’s crop
tour. As of yesterday, grain had developed in 74 percent of the
crop, the most for that date since at least 1981 and up from a
five-year average of 7 percent, government data show.  The price of wheat on the Kansas City Board of Trade
dropped 27 percent in the past year as the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture  forecast a 3.8 percent jump in global stockpiles to
206.3 million metric tons, the most in 10 years. Prospects for
supply in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter, are improving
as warm weather and timely rain in the southern Great Plains
accelerate growth for crops that may be harvested as much as
three weeks early.  “People are revising their estimates higher and higher”
for Kansas production, said Christopher Gadd, an analyst at
Macquarie Group Ltd. in London. “Kansas is expected to
outperform. Any losses will come from Oklahoma and  Texas . The
market is pricing in a good crop already, so even if it comes
out really good, it’s still in line with expectations.
Everybody’s talking these yields up.”  More Surveyors  The promise of an early glimpse at the winter-wheat crop,
which accounted for 75 percent of U.S. output last year, is
boosting attendance at this year’s annual tour of fields in
Kansas, according to organizers at the  Wheat Quality Council .
Last year, there were 70 analysts, traders and growers who
participated in the three-day survey of hundreds of farms.  “Knowledge is power, and people are trying to get the
edge,” said  Steve Shafer , the chief investment officer at
Covenant Global Investors, an Oklahoma City-based hedge fund
that manages $320 million. “That’s why we’re seeing the number
of people rising on the tour and more requests for real-time
info. People are trying to get ahead of market-pricing
dynamics.”  Last year, Chicago wheat futures gained 8 percent in the
three weeks after tour participants reported that drought had
cut crop yields in Kansas and parts of  North Dakota  to 37.4
bushels an acre, compared with 40.7 bushels a year earlier. In
2010, prices plunged 8 percent in the three weeks after the tour
found crops weren’t damaged as much as analysts expected by a
fungal disease called stripe rust.  Slumping Prices  Wheat futures for July delivery in  Kansas City , where hard-
red winter wheat is traded, fell 0.8 percent to settle at $6.57
a bushel today, after touching a 20-month low of $6.3275 on
April 18. On the Chicago Board of Trade, wheat futures slid 1.8
percent to $6.43 a bushel. Chicago prices may drop to $5.75 in
six months, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on April 11.  During this year’s Kansas tour, analysts expect to make
more reliable forecasts and find even bigger yields because the
crop is so advanced, said Macquarie’s Gadd, who predicted
Chicago futures will average $5.60 in the fourth quarter and
$5.20 in next year’s first quarter.  Farmers may start collecting wheat in south-central Kansas
around May 25, compared with a normal start to the harvest about
June 10, said Bill Spiegel, a spokesman for Kansas Wheat, an
industry group in  Manhattan , Kansas. Wheat plants already are
heading, or developing grain kernels, rather than flowering,
making yield forecasts more accurate, Spiegel said.  “We’re nearing the finish line,” he said. “It’s easier
to tell what the crop is going to look like.”  Tour Plan  About 22 vehicles, each carrying four or five participants,
will leave from Manhattan, Kansas, today, Colby tomorrow and
Wichita on May 3. Each group will travel separate routes,
stopping every 15 minutes to 20 minutes to inspect random
fields. They will end the tour on May 3 in Kansas City to tally
the final estimate of state’s average yield.  Tour estimates are based on a formula developed by the
National Agriculture Statistics Service, which involves
measuring the space between rows in the field, the number of
plants per row, and the number of kernels on the head of the
plant, if available. There are usually about a dozen such
measurements per field.  “People are going to want to see how good it really is,”
said Jamey Kohake, the branch manager at Paragon Investments in
 Silver Lake , Kansas. “They’re going to see a great crop that’s
running two or three weeks ahead of schedule. The only concern
is far western Kansas near the Colorado border. They’re drying
out a bit. They could use some moisture.”  ‘Better Number’  Last year’s tour overestimated yields at 37 bushels an
acre, compared with the USDA final tally of 35 bushels, which
was down 22 percent from a year earlier.  “I expect the tour to have the best estimation it’s ever
had because of how far along the wheat is,” said  Tom Leffler ,
owner of Leffler Commodities LLC in Augusta, Kansas. “This is
the most advanced they’ve seen on the tour, so they’ll get a
better number. Everybody’s looking at much better yields than
expected. It’s going to be a very, very good crop.”  Winter wheat  is planted in the Midwest and Great Plains
from September to November, goes dormant until about March, and
then is harvested from June to August. Spring wheat, grown
primarily in northern states, is planted in April and May and
harvested from August to September.  Good Condition  An estimated 62 percent of the Kansas winter-wheat crop was
in good or excellent condition, up from 21 percent a year
earlier, government data show. About 74 percent of the U.S.
spring-wheat crop was sown, up from 9 percent at this time a
year earlier, the USDA said.  “It’s phenomenal how good this wheat crop is compared to
last year,” said  Lane Broadbent , a vice president at KIS
Futures in  Oklahoma City . “Last year at this time, the plants
were calf high. This year, they’re waist high. The optimism is
high that we’re going to have a large crop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  