-- Kenya’s Odinga Is Preferred Presidential Candidate, Ipsos Says
-- B y   P a u l   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-05-01T11:19:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/kenya-s-odinga-is-preferred-presidential-candidate-ipsos-says.html
Kenyan Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  is
the most preferred presidential candidate ahead of elections
scheduled to take place by March, Ipsos-Synovate Ltd. said.  An opinion poll conducted between April 6 and April 17
found that 34 percent of Kenyans would vote for Odinga, the
research company said in an e-mailed statement today from
Nairobi, the capital. Deputy Prime Minister Uhuru Kenyatta has
22 percent support, deputy President Kalonzo Musyoka 9 percent,
and deputy Prime Minister Musalia Mudavadi 5 percent, it said.  Odinga became prime minister in 2008 after signing a power-
sharing accord with incumbent President Mwai Kibaki to end two
months of ethnic fighting following a disputed presidential
election. An estimated 1,500 people died in the violence and
another 300,000 were forced to flee their homes.  Kenyatta and three other Kenyans, including former Higher
Education Minister  William Ruto , have been ordered to stand
trial at The Hague-based  International Criminal Court  for
allegedly directing the clashes, an accusation which all of the
men deny. Ruto polled 8 percent support in the Ipsos-Synovate
survey.  Should their trial prevent Kenyatta and Ruto from competing
in the election, Odinga’s closest rival would be Musyoka, who
would garner 19 percent of the vote, it said. A run-off vote
between Odinga and Kenyatta would see each receive 44 percent,
with 12 percent of voters undecided, Ipsos-Synovate said.  Kenya’s new constitution stipulates that candidates are
declared president after receiving more than half of all votes
cast. Kibaki, who is currently serving a second term, is barred
by the constitution from seek a third.  The Ipsos-Synovate poll sampled 2,000 respondents and has a
margin of error of 2.2 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Richardson  in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 