-- N.Y. Comptroller’s Aides Plead Not Guilty in Funding Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-01T17:03:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/n-y-comptroller-s-aides-plead-not-guilty-in-funding-case.html
New York City Comptroller  John Liu ’s
campaign treasurer, Jia “Jenny” Hou, and Xing Wu “Oliver”
 Pan , a fundraiser, pleaded not guilty to illegally funneling
campaign contributions to the comptroller.  Both were named last month in an indictment filed in
federal court in New York. Hou, already been accused of fraud
and obstruction of justice, was named with Pan in an alleged
scheme to defraud the city by using straw donors to obtain
matching campaign funds.  The government’s evidence includes recorded phone
conversations and “tens of thousands” of pages of documents,
e-mails and records on the campaign, Assistant U.S. Attorney
Steve Lee told U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan today.  Pan’s lawyer,  Irwin Rochman , said he intends to ask for
dismissal of the charges against his client. Hou’s lawyer,
Gerald B. Lefcourt, said he may seek to have her tried
separately from Pan.  “We intend to make a motion to dismiss on the grounds of
outrageous government conduct,” Rochman told Sullivan. “We’re
talking about a series of acts taken by the government which,
taken together, constitute outrageous behavior.”  Sullivan said that while he will wait to see the motion,
such requests are rarely granted. The judge let Hou and Pan stay
free on bond. He set their next court appearance for July 10.  Rochman said the government fabricated the case. He cited
actions such as a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent’s posing
as a potential Liu campaign contributor.  Rochman said after the court session that his criticism
included “the manner in which the government created and
executed the undercover operation which resulted in the
indictment of Mr. Pan. That conduct or many aspects of it
constitute the conscience-shocking outrageous misconduct by the
government.”  The case is U.S. v. Pan, 1:12-cr-00153, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  