-- New York Man Convicted of Scheming to Blow Up City Subways
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/new-york-man-convicted-of-plotting-to-blow-up-city-subways-1-.html
A jury convicted a  New York  man of
plotting a failed suicide attack on the city’s subway system
around the eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks.  Adis Medunjanin, 28, was found guilty yesterday by jurors
in federal court in  Brooklyn , New York, on nine charges
including conspiracy to use weapons of mass destruction and
providing material support to a foreign terrorist organization.  Medunjanin and two other New York men were recruited by al-
Qaeda for a planned bombing of subway lines in  Manhattan  in
2009, according to the indictment. The plot was stopped within
days of being carried out, prosecutors said. The two other men,
Najibullah Zazi and Zarein Ahmedzay, pleaded guilty in 2010 and
testified against Medunjanin.  U.S. District Judge John Gleeson, who presided over the
trial, scheduled sentencing for Sept. 7. Medunjanin, who hugged
his lawyer before he was taken away from the courtroom after the
verdict, faces as long as life in prison.  “He was readying himself to be a suicide bomber,”
Assistant U.S. Attorney Berit Berger told jurors in her closing
argument. “This defendant was ready to die and he was ready to
kill.”  Military Training  Medunjanin, Ahmedzay, 27, and Zazi, 26, lived in the New
York borough of Queens and went to Flushing High School. In
August 2008, they left New York to join the Taliban in  Pakistan ,
where they were recruited by  al-Qaeda , which gave them military
training and encouraged them to conduct suicide attacks,
Ahmedzay and Zazi testified. The trial began April 16.  “I want to commend prosecutors for the conviction of Adis
Medunjanin,” Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly said in a
statement. “His conviction stands as a stark reminder of
terrorists’ desire long after 9/11 to return to the city to kill
more  New Yorkers .”  Robert Gottlieb , Medunjanin’s lawyer, said the verdict will
be appealed.  “There were legit legal issues that arose right from the
beginning of the trial, and will be part of the appeal
process,” Gottlieb said outside the courtroom.  The three men went to a terrorist camp in Waziristan,
Pakistan, and were taught to use rocket launchers, machine guns,
grenades and pistols, according to Zazi’s testimony. He was also
trained in bomb-making, he said.  Possible Targets  After al-Qaeda asked them to conduct a suicide mission,
they returned to the U.S. Al-Qaeda didn’t specify what to
target, Zazi said. Other possible targets included  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT) , the New York Stock Exchange and movie theaters, he
said.  Zazi testified that when the plotters discussed bombing the
subways, he mentioned the No. 3 train, which runs on Manhattan’s
West Side, or the No. 4 train on the East Side, because they are
busy lines.  The plan was for an attack in the Muslim holy month of
Ramadan during the morning or afternoon rush hour, because that
would create the most casualties and property damage, Ahmedzay
testified.  Zazi said they agreed to the terrorist plot because they
were upset about the U.S.’s presence in Afghanistan.  ‘Tough Case’  Saajid Muhammad Badat, convicted in the U.K. in 2005 of
plotting to explode an airplane, testified via a recorded
deposition about his experiences with al-Qaeda, as did Bryant Neal Vinas, a man from  Long Island  who pleaded guilty in 2009 to
charges related to his association with the terrorist group.  Badat is the first terrorist convicted in the U.K. to
present evidence in a U.S. trial, the  Crown Prosecution Service 
said in an April 16 statement.  Defense lawyer Gottlieb said after the verdict that “it
was a tough, tough case with the audio and the cooperators.
We’re not oblivious to the realities in a case like this.”  Medunjanin was taken into custody after a Jan. 7, 2010,
incident in which he swerved his silver Nissan Altima into
another vehicle at more than 90 miles an hour while followed by
government agents on an expressway in Queens, prosecutors said.  Car Crash  Shortly before he crashed, Medunjanin dialed 911 and
screamed in Arabic, “We love death more than you love your
life,” according to the government. The crash occurred about an
hour after law enforcement officers left his home in the
Flushing area of Queens following the execution of a warrant to
search for his passports.  Prosecutors said in a court document that Medunjanin
admitted after the collision that he was trying to kill himself
and others.  Medunjanin’s mother and sister testified at the trial for
him.  Ahmedzay immigrated to the U.S. from  Afghanistan . Zazi was
born in Pakistan. He testified that he had falsely written on
immigration forms and told authorities that he was from
Afghanistan. The three men have been in custody since their
arrests.  The case is U.S. v. Medunjanin, 1:10-cr-00019, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in Brooklyn, New York, at  ianthomas33@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 