-- New York Times Leads Circulation Gains Among Newspapers
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-05-01T20:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/new-york-times-leads-circulation-gains-among-newspapers.html
The New York Times  led weekday
circulation gains among major U.S. newspapers, jumping 73
percent in the six-month period ended in March, fueled by the
growth of the online subscription business it started last year.  The total industry saw a 0.7 percent increase in daily
circulation over the same period, according to the  Audit Bureau
of Circulations , with Sunday circulation among reporting
newspapers climbing 5 percent. The  Wall Street Journal , owned by
New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA) , remained the No. 1 weekday
publication with circulation of 2.12 million, little changed
from a year ago. USA Today ranked second.  The  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s flagship paper, third in weekday
circulation, spurred thousands of users to sign up for online
subscriptions last year when it began charging for more of its
content. Weekday print circulation, meanwhile, dropped 4.5
percent to 779,731, while Sunday print copies declined 1.1
percent to 1.27 million.  The company  has said  it had 454,000 paying digital
subscribers to digital editions of both the  New York  Times and
International Herald Tribune newspapers as of the end of March
18, a year after it began charging readers to access the site.  Rule Changes  The jump in circulation is partly explained by new
reporting rules from the Audit Bureau. A paying subscriber who
accesses the  Times newspaper  on different digital devices --
everything from a smartphone to a tablet to a desktop computer
-- could be counted three times in a single day.  New York Times shares fell less than 1 percent to $6.26 at
the close in New York. The  stock  has declined 19 percent this
year.  Circulation at  USA Today , owned by McLean, Virginia-based
Gannett Co., declined 0.6 percent to 1.82 million.  Internet use accounts for 14 percent of newspapers’ total
circulation on average, up from 8.7 percent in the same period
last year, according to the Audit Bureau.  “Due to the many ways that newspapers now distribute and
market their content -- metered paywalls, mobile apps, bundled
subscriptions, branded editions -- ABC cautions against drawing
too many direct comparisons of the data,” the group said in  a
statement .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  