-- News Corp. Closeness to Tories Highlighted by Split on Report
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-05-01T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/news-corp-closeness-to-tories-highlighted-by-split-on-report.html
Yesterday’s split among lawmakers on
the U.K. Parliament’s Culture Committee over whether to
criticize  Rupert Murdoch  highlighted again the closeness between
News Corp. and Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Tory party.  Conservative panel members insisted their refusal to
support a finding in a report on phone hacking scandal that
Murdoch was “not a fit person” to run News Corp. was based on
a lack of evidence he knew anything about illegal activities
within the company. The danger for Cameron, facing local
elections tomorrow, is that voters may conclude that his party
is siding with the media mogul.  The prime minister is due to be questioned within weeks by
the Leveson Inquiry into media ethics about his relationship
with Murdoch and his 2007 decision to hire as his press chief
 Andy Coulson , who resigned from Murdoch’s News of the World
tabloid over phone hacking. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is
fighting resignation calls over his own dealings with Rupert’s
son James during News Corp’s failed takeover bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  last year.  “It’s very dangerous -- they’re going to suffer if they’re
seen to be rooting for Rupert,” Tim Bale, professor of politics
at  Sussex University  and author of “The  Conservative Party :
From Thatcher to Cameron,” said in an interview. “The Murdoch
brand has always been toxic for some on the left, but now it’s
permeated into the mind of the general public.”  Conservative lawmaker Louise Mensch attacked  Tom Watson 
from the opposition Labour Party yesterday for introducing
language into the report describing the  News Corp. (NWSA)  chairman as
“not a fit person” to lead a major international company.  ‘Fatally Damaged’  Mensch said the five Labour members of the committee and
one Liberal Democrat who outvoted four Tories to add that line
had gone beyond their mandate. The report’s “credibility is now
fatally damaged,” she said.  It was an echo of News Corp.’s rebuttal of the committee’s
previous report into phone hacking, published in 2010. Then, the
company said Parliament had been “damaged and materially
diminished” by the committee’s work. Yesterday, the company was
more conciliatory, saying the committee’s report had revealed
“hard truths.”  Cameron acknowledged the ideological identification between
his party and Murdoch when he was defending Hunt to Parliament
on April 30. Describing his efforts before the 2010 election to
persuade the tycoon to switch his newspapers’ support to the
Conservatives after 13 years of backing Labour, he said: “We
were not trying to convince a center-right proprietor of a set
of newspapers with solidly center-right views to change the
position of a lifetime.”  Murdoch ‘Cheerleader’  Hunt was openly admiring of Murdoch,  republishing on his
website  an interview in which Broadcast magazine described him
as a “cheerleader” for the man. E-mails from a News Corp.
lobbyist, Frederic Michel, to  James Murdoch  released by the
Leveson Inquiry last week showed Hunt offering support when News
Corp. bid for the shares of BSkyB it didn’t own.  While the decision to approve that deal was initially in
the hands of Liberal Democrat Business Secretary  Vince Cable ,
Hunt gave supportive interviews and had private contact with
James Murdoch.  Once responsibility for deciding if the takeover should be
allowed was transferred to Hunt at the end of that year, Hunt’s
special adviser,  Adam Smith , was in constant contact with
Michel, explaining his boss’s thinking and leaking advance
information on decisions. Smith resigned last week, and the
revelations may yet cost Hunt his job.  ‘Powerful Interests’  Labour leader  Ed Miliband , who put Watson in charge of the
party’s campaigns last year, is trying to ensure it costs
Cameron his job as well. His response to the split committee
vote linked it to the prime minister.  “There’s a pattern here, which is that Conservatives, the
prime minister and others, seem to spend their time standing up
for rich and powerful interests,” Miliband said in a statement
yesterday. “We’ve got a  Labour Party  which is prepared to stand
up to people, however rich they are, however powerful they
are.”  While Cameron pointed out in Parliament this week that
Labour leaders have spent their share of time courting Murdoch,
this may not stop Miliband capitalizing on criticisms of News
Corp.  When he was in opposition, Cameron managed to make the 2009
lawmakers’ expenses scandal into a crisis for the Labour
government in the face of revelations about Tory lawmakers’
claims for money, including his own. According to Bale, Miliband
is succeeding in pulling the same trick.  “It’s a really good analogy,” Bale said. “Both parties
are wholly implicated, but one seems to be able to turn the
whole thing to its advantage.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Hutton  in  London  at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 