-- News Corp. Should Waive Law Firm Privilege, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-05-01T17:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/news-corp-should-waive-law-firm-privilege-lawmakers-say.html
U.K. lawmakers called on  News Corp. (NWSA)  to
allow its former criminal defense firm to reveal details on a
2006 internal probe into phone-hacking at the company’s now-
defunct News of the World tabloid.  News Corp.’s “legal privilege” with BCL Burton Copeland
should be waived so the London-based law firm can defend claims
it helped with a cover-up, the  House of Commons Culture
Committee  said today. News Corp. Chairman Rupert Murdoch told an
ethics inquiry last week that lawyers and lower-ranking
executives at its News International unit are to blame for his
ignorance about the extent of phone hacking until late 2010.  Murdoch’s claim “that a cover-up has taken place at the
company may mean that the investigations conducted by Burton
Copeland have been used by people at News International to
perpetrate a falsehood,” lawmakers said in a  report  about the
scandal. “We believe there is a strong argument that the
company has no right to restrain disclosure of the file.”  The committee, investigating the scandal for the second
time in six years, said the tabloid’s former editor  Colin Myler 
and legal manager Tom Crone misled Parliament and found Murdoch
is “not a fit person” to lead a major international company.
Police investigating hacking and bribery at News Corp.’s U.K.
titles have made 45 arrests, while Britain’s media watchdog is
probing whether the company should retain its stake in pay-
television provider  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)   Leveson Inquiry  Legal privilege prevents law firms from sharing notes, e-
mails, reports and other documents related to its work without
permission from the client. Judge Brian Leveson, who is
overseeing the independent media-ethics inquiry triggered by the
scandal, raised the issue of privilege preventing some remaining
questions from being answered, such as how much information
executives had about the scandal, and when they had it.  Messages left at Burton Copeland and News International
seeking comment on the privilege issue weren’t returned.  While keeping the waiver in place is understandable, it
would be a “fair conclusion” for the public to decide News
Corp. still has something to hide, said Niri Shan, a media
lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP who isn’t involved in the matter.  “It is difficult for them to draw a line under this and
say they’ve disclosed everything if they don’t waive
privilege,” Shan said in a phone interview. The company may
want to “take the flack that they get for not waiving privilege
because the story will die down.”  Revisit Conclusions  The proposed waiver may affect the report’s conclusion that
there isn’t enough evidence to determine whether Murdoch’s son,
News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer  James Murdoch , lied
about being unaware of internal e-mails that suggested phone-
hacking was widespread.  “We may well revisit our conclusions in this report if
more information, currently subject to criminal proceedings or
subject to legal privilege which has not been waived, is
disclosed,” lawmakers said in a unanimous section of the
report.  Burton Copeland was hired by News International to conduct
a probe after the News of the World royal reporter  Clive Goodman 
was arrested more than five years ago. News Corp. claimed the
firm’s investigation, where it reviewed e-mails and financial
records, found no evidence of widespread phone hacking.  Burton Copeland parted ways with News Corp. last year and
said in September its role was limited to providing documents to
the police and that it wasn’t asked to carry out a full probe.  Harbottle & Lewis  Harbottle & Lewis LLP, another law firm that worked for
News International, denied claims made by  Rupert Murdoch  to the
committee last year that it gave the company a clean bill of
health after reviewing the matter. The law firm wrote to
lawmakers saying Murdoch was “confused or misled” in his
testimony.  Rupert Murdoch told lawmakers last year he “rested” on
findings from the two law firms, as well as from police, that
phone hacking had been limited to a single “rogue” reporter.
He told the ethics inquiry last week he should have taken
matters into his own hands.  “I should have gone down there and thrown all the damn
lawyers out of the place,” Murdoch testified, saying he should
have interviewed Goodman after he was convicted of intercepting
messages of members of the British Royal Family.  The suggestion that law firms helped prevent the scandal
from coming to light is part of a pattern of Rupert Murdoch and
other executives blaming lawyers, said David Allen Green, head
of media law at Preiskel & Co. LLP.  “James and Rupert Murdoch have appeared very ready to
place blame on their legal advisers,” Green said. “This
approach can backfire, for if the lawyers are released from any
obligation of confidentiality and privilege, their criticism can
be quite powerful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  