-- NiSource Rises on Planned Utica Drilling Venture: Chicago Mover
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-05-01T20:25:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/nisource-rises-on-planned-utica-drilling-venture-chicago-mover.html
NiSource Inc. (NI)  rose after the company
said it plans to form a venture to drill for oil or natural gas
in the Utica shale basin.  The shares increased 2.8 percent to $25.33 at  the close in
 New York .  NiSource, based in Merrillville, Indiana, expects to
announce a partnership within a month that “could include
significant downstream infrastructure investment
opportunities,” Robert Skaggs Jr., president and chief
executive officer, told analysts during a quarterly earnings
conference call today.  Indiana’s largest gas utility owner, NiSource holds mineral
rights to between 100,000 and 200,000 acres in the Utica that
could support production, Mike Banas, a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail today.  “It gives them a card to play with,” said  Charles Fishman , a Chicago-based stock analyst who covers NiSource for
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  “Obviously, somebody likes what they have.”  Nisource’s venture partner would handle exploration and
production, while the gas distributor would gather and transport
the fuel to be processed, Fishman said. NiSource didn’t say
whether the partnership plans to drill for oil or gas, but said
that it involves a region of eastern Ohio where shale rock
formations primarily hold oil.  NiSource expects to contribute 15,000 acres to the venture
with the balance provided by its as-yet unnamed partner, Skaggs
said.  Skaggs said NiSource is scouting opportunities in the gas
liquids-rich portion of the Utica, including proposals to
provide gathering services. The company also unveiled plans to
expand two pipelines to connect the Marcellus shale region in
 Pennsylvania  with northeastern and Gulf Coast markets by late
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  