-- Nomura Falls With Daiwa on Worsening Market Outlook: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-05-01T06:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/nomura-falls-with-daiwa-on-worsening-market-outlook-tokyo-mover.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  and  Daiwa
Securities Group Inc. (8601)  fell the most this year in Tokyo trading
as slumping Japanese stocks and a stronger yen clouded the
outlook for business even after they posted better earnings.  Nomura  declined  4.6 percent, the steepest drop in five
months, to close at 315 yen. Daiwa, the nation’s second-biggest
securities firm,  tumbled  5.9 percent, the most since Nov. 8, to
286 yen. The  Nikkei (NKY)  225 Stock Average slid 1.8 percent.  Trading income drove profit at the two companies in the
three months ended March as Japanese stocks had their best
quarter since 2009. The Nikkei has since retreated more than 7
percent as  Europe ’s debt crisis persists and the yen resumes a
climb that may threaten the export-led economic recovery.  “Earnings themselves were good,” said  Takehito Yamanaka ,
a Tokyo-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG. “Investors are
now watching the current quarter and they’re seeing that market
conditions haven’t been as good since April.”  Yamanaka said investors may have also sold Nomura stock
after it halved its fiscal second-half dividend payment to 2 yen
from 4 yen a year earlier. He rates Nomura “outperform” and
Daiwa “underperform,” according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura’s  net income  rose 86 percent last quarter from a
year earlier to 22.1 billion yen ($277 million), the Tokyo-based
firm reported on April 27, beating analysts’ 14.4 billion yen
average estimate. Profit was helped by a $1.2 billion cost-
cutting initiative as well as the gains in trading, making up
for declining investment banking fees and brokerage commissions.  The company plans to ease the pace of job cuts,  Jonathan Lewis , co-deputy chief financial officer at Nomura, said in an
interview after the earnings. Nomura trimmed headcount by 1,302
positions in the six months since the end of September.  Daiwa posted net income of 10.9 billion yen for the fiscal
fourth quarter from a loss of 33.1 billion yen a year earlier,
led by trading income, it said on April 27. The results still
missed the 18.7 billion yen average estimate of analysts as fees
and brokerage commissions dropped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  