-- Norway Swimming Champion Alexander Dale Oen Dies While Training
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h   a n d   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 2012-05-01T14:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/norway-swimming-champion-alexander-dale-oen-dies-while-training.html
Alexander Dale Oen, the world 100-
meter breaststroke champion from Norway, died during a team
training camp yesterday in  Arizona . He was 26.  Dale Oen’s teammates found the athlete collapsed in his
bathroom last night in Flagstaff, the Norwegian Swimming
Federation said in a statement today on its website. He was
taken to the hospital and pronounced dead at 9 p.m. local time.  “We are all in shock,” Norway coach Petter Loevberg said
in the statement. “This is an out-of-body experience for the
whole team over here. Our thoughts primarily now go to the
family that has lost Alexander way too early.”  Dale Oen won the 100-meter breaststroke at the world
championships in  Shanghai  last year. He also won a silver medal
at the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  Dale Oen’s victory at the worlds came three days after
terror attacks by Anders Behring Breivik left 77 people dead in
 Norway . He dedicated that win to the victims, pointing to the
Norwegian flag on his cap after the end of the race in a show of
strength to his countrymen back home.  “We need to stay united,” Dale Oen said at the time.
“Everyone back home now is of course paralyzed with what
happened but it was important for me to symbolize that even
though I’m here in  China , I’m able to feel the same emotions.”  The Norwegian team was training in Arizona in preparation
for this summer’s London Olympics. Dale Oen’s teammates became
worried when he took a long time in the shower and entered the
bathroom to find him “partly lying on the floor, partly on the
edge of the bathtub,” according to the federation’s statement.  Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was immediately started and
was performed for about an hour before Dale Oen was pronounced
dead at the hospital, the federation said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net ;
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 