-- Obama Order Urges Rule Review to Boost U.S. Company Trade
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-05-01T21:51:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-order-urges-rule-review-to-boost-u-s-company-trade.html
President  Barack Obama  issued an
executive order requiring a White House policy group to seek
ways to closer align U.S. regulations with rules in other
countries.  The  order  issued today instructs the panel to focus on
increasing international regulatory cooperation, particularly in
areas of emerging technology.  Differences in regulatory approaches between U.S. agencies
and those of counterparts in an increasingly global economy
“might not be necessary and might impair the ability of
American businesses to export and compete internationally,” the
order states.  The order aims to cut red tape “that can make it hard for
American companies to grow their businesses,” Cass Sunstein,
administrator of the White House’s  Office of Information and
Regulatory Affairs , said in remarks today at the  U.S. Chamber of
Commerce , the nation’s biggest business-lobbying organization.  Federal agencies reviewing rules under the order should
seek to “promote accountability and transparency and prevent
unnecessary costs,” Sunstein said.  The cost of regulation has emerged as a theme in Republican
campaign attacks on Obama as business groups, including the
chamber, also have criticized the president’s approach to
rulemaking.  Regulatory Cooperation  Obama’s order provides a framework to organize scattered
efforts to promote international regulatory cooperation, the
chamber’s top global regulatory official said today.  “Today’s executive order marks a paradigm shift for U.S.
regulators by directing them to take the international
implications of their work into account in a consistent and
comprehensive way,” Sean Heather, vice president of the
chamber’s  Center for Global Regulatory Cooperation , said in an
e-mailed statement.  The order seeks to strike a balance between reducing
incompatibility in regulation between nations to promote
economic activity while protecting the health and safety of
Americans and reaffirming the primacy of U.S. law.  In a website posting today explaining the executive order,
Sunstein said it builds on existing international efforts,
including regulatory cooperation councils with Canada and
 Mexico .  Coordinating Regions  The executive order “is not earth-shattering, but it’s a
recognition of the role international trade is playing in the
economy,”  John Hardy , president of the  Coalition for Employment
Through Exports , a Washington-based nonprofit that advocates for
policies promoting exports, said by phone.  “Certainly the business community would support what the
administration is trying to do, but it’s not going to have an
overnight impact on trade,” Hardy said.  Obama’s order represents an effort to iron out relatively
minor differences in regulatory approach between the U.S. and
other economies, including  Japan  and the European Union, to
focus more attention on emerging powers like  China ,  India ,
 Brazil  and  Indonesia  where “regulations are more lax,” said
Daniel Hamilton, executive director of Johns Hopkins
University’s  Center for Transatlantic Relations , in  Washington .  The Obama administration is saying, “Can we identify some
ways to approach regulation to free up resources so each of us
can turn our attention to more troubling areas,” Hamilton said
in a telephone interview.  The Regulatory Working Group is led by Sunstein and
consists of 18 representatives of cabinet departments and other
high-level agencies. The  U.S. Trade Representative  and other
officials will be added to the panel as needed for deliberations
on international regulation.  NI EXE
NI PRULE
NI TRD
NI EU
NI US
NI COS
NI TRADE  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  