-- Obama Says Defeat of al-Qaeda Within Reach, War Near End
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-01T23:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-says-defeat-of-al-qaeda-within-reach-war-near-end.html
President  Barack Obama , in an address
to the American public from  Afghanistan , will say the defeat of
al-Qaeda is within reach as is his goal of ending the decade-
long war ignited by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.  “My fellow Americans, we have traveled through more than a
decade under the dark cloud of war,” Obama said in excerpts of
remarks he’ll deliver from Bagram Airfield. “Yet here, in the
pre-dawn darkness of Afghanistan, we can see the light of a new
day on the horizon.”  Obama made his surprise trip to Afghanistan to sign an
agreement on the future U.S. role there exactly one year after
the killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. The president
will deliver his speech roughly around the same time of day that
a U.S. Navy SEAL team carried out the raid on bin Laden’s
compound in Abbottabad,  Pakistan .  The president is scheduled to give the speech at 7:30 p.m.
Washington time.  Earlier, Obama signed a strategic partnership agreement
with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  that outlines future U.S.
support for Afghanistan. The accord took more than a year of
negotiations and marks a milestone for the administration’s goal
of handing over security responsibility to local forces by the
end of 2014.  ‘Acute Challenges’  The president arrived the same day the Defense Department
released a report saying the U.S.-led effort in Afghanistan
faces “long-term and acute challenges” from militant
sanctuaries in neighboring Pakistan and “widespread
corruption” in the Afghan government.  Today’s events are the latest attempt by Obama to turn the
page on U.S. military involvement abroad. Although he inherited
the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan from his predecessor,
 George W. Bush , and fulfilled a pledge to end the war in Iraq,
Obama took ownership of the Afghan war when he announced a
revamped strategy and troop surge in December 2010.  “This time of war began in Afghanistan, and this is where
it will end,” Obama will say in his address.  As the president highlights the eventual transfer of
authority to the Afghan government, the administration is
seeking to temper expectations of what will be left behind when
U.S. and coalition combat forces withdraw by 2014.  After more than 10 years of a sustained military presence,
U.S. relations with the Afghan government, as well as with
neighboring Pakistan, have soured and the situation on the
ground has deteriorated.  Security Threats  The Taliban continues to pose a security threat even with
the gains that have been made since Obama’s revamped war
strategy. The Karzai government continues to be hobbled by
theft, bribery and the inability of its forces to control all
areas of the country.  “The insurgency remains a resilient and determined enemy
and will likely attempt to regain lost ground and influence this
spring and summer,” the Defense Department wrote in a semi-
annual report sent to Congress yesterday and released in
 Washington  today. “Additionally, the Afghan government
continues to face widespread corruption that limits its
effectiveness and legitimacy.”  The war has cost the lives of 1,831 U.S. military personnel
and about $443 billion, according to figures from the Defense
Department and the  Congressional Research Service . This year,
the administration plans to spend $90 billion on military
operations and $16 billion for aid, including training and
equipment. More than 1,000 troops from U.S. coalition partners,
which includes the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, also have
died.  Remarks to Troops  Speaking to U.S. military personnel at Bagram after signing
the partnership agreement, Obama thanked the troops for their
sacrifices and noted that “a year ago we were able to finally
bring  Osama bin Laden  to justice.”  He said the signing of the partnership agreement “signals
the transition” to Afghan control.  “We’re not going to do it overnight, we aren’t going to do
it irresponsibly,” he said.  Progress that’s been made since Obama ordered a surge of
troops in 2010 may be undermined by the planned withdrawal of
U.S. and allied combat forces in the next two years, the support
of insurgents by neighboring Pakistan and  Iran , and the
remaining connections between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, said
 Seth Jones , a senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation
in Arlington, Virginia.  Force Levels  “There’s a major question about whether this process can
be continued for the foreseeable future with the very light
force presence,” Jones, who has advised the U.S. military, said
in a telephone interview today from  New York .  The U.S. will still have the capacity to carry out
counterterrorism operations to keep al-Qaeda from resettling and
allow for a regional equilibrium that serves a national security
interest at home, according to an administration official who
briefed reporters on the flight to Afghanistan.  While the official said there would still likely be Taliban
influence in certain villages and remote mountainous regions,
the threat will be mitigated by having a stable Afghan
government in control of major cities, roads and thoroughfares.  Abdul Ahad Helmandwal, a tribal elder in volatile southern
province of Helmand, said he was optimistic that the agreement
would prevent the country from being torn apart as it was
following the Soviet withdrawal in 1989, which opened the way
for the Taliban.  Backup Power  “Taliban are thinking they would rule Afghanistan again,
but fortunately this time the country has powerful backups from
the U.S., and that won’t happen,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Falling support for the war from the American public has
provided an opening for Republicans, including the party’s
presumptive presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , to try to undercut
Obama’s strong approval ratings on foreign policy.  Sixty-nine percent of respondents in a March 26 New York
Times/CBS News poll said the U.S. should not be at war in
Afghanistan, with 68 percent saying the fighting was going
“somewhat badly” or “very badly” -- a jump from 42 percent
in November.  Obama, whose 2008 candidacy was largely based on his
initial opposition to the  Iraq  war, still receives his highest
job-approval ratings on foreign policy and national security
issues while his lowest ratings are on his handling of the
economy.  Romney has criticized the president as “naïve” for
telegraphing when the U.S may begin withdrawing combat troops
from Afghanistan and has said he would defer to generals on the
ground on troop levels and timelines. Still, he has indicated
that he supports the withdrawal of combat troops by the end of
2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Bagram Airbase at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  