-- Obama Says With War Near End, Defeat of al-Qaeda in Reach
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-02T14:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-says-with-war-near-end-defeat-of-al-qaeda-in-reach.html
President  Barack Obama  assured the
American public the defeat of al-Qaeda is within reach as he
marked the first anniversary of the killing of Osama bin Laden
with a visit to  Afghanistan  and an agreement that prepares the
way to bring U.S. troops home.  “My fellow Americans, we have traveled through more than a
decade under the dark cloud of war,” Obama said at Bagram
Airfield, where he had arrived about six hours earlier. “Yet
here, in the pre-dawn darkness of Afghanistan, we can see the
light of a new day on the horizon.”  The drama of the surprise trip to Afghanistan, with the
presidential plane landing in a war zone with lights out and
window shades drawn and Obama addressing the nation from an
aircraft hangar, provided more imagery to connect Obama with the
death of  bin Laden . The speech was delivered almost a year to
the moment after a U.S. Navy Seal team raided bin Laden’s
compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan.  Obama spoke in front of a totem of modern combat: a pair of
tan camouflage Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected vehicles, used to
protect troops on patrol against insurgents’ weapon of choice --
hidden roadside explosives.  The signing of the partnership agreement with Afghanistan
on the anniversary also reinforces the link between the killing
of the U.S.’s most despised enemy and the return home of troops
from Afghanistan and  Iraq , a war he also mentioned in the
speech.  Campaign Message  Discontent with the Iraq conflict fueled much of the early
political support for Obama, one of the few Democrats who
criticized the war from the start. The successful mission to
eliminate bin Laden has supplied a rejoinder to Republicans who
criticize the president as weak in dealings with regimes such as
Iran and  North Korea .  The al-Qaeda leader’s killing also is an undergirding for
Obama’s re-election message, though the campaign remains focused
on the economy.  Vice President  Joe Biden  recently crystallized that theme
in single sentence: “Bin Laden is dead and General Motors is
alive,” referring to the auto industry bailout Obama authorized
shortly after taking office.  During his speech, the president credited the heroism of
military servicemen and women, as well as his revamped strategy
for Afghanistan and Pakistan, with leading to the war’s end.  “We broke the Taliban’s momentum. We’ve built strong
Afghan Security forces,” he said. “We devastated al-Qaeda’s
leadership, taking out over 20 of their top 30 leaders.”  Goal ‘Within Reach’  “And one year ago, from a base here in Afghanistan, our
troops launched the operation that killed  Osama bin Laden ,” he
said. “The goal that I set -- to defeat al-Qaeda, and deny it a
chance to rebuild -- is within reach.”  Republicans including the party’s presumptive presidential
nominee,  Mitt Romney , have accused Obama of exploiting the
killing of bin Laden to boost his image with voters. Romney also
has criticized Obama for publicly setting a timeline for the
U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan.  The president defended the 2014 deadline for NATO to
transfer all combat operations to Afghan security forces. After
announcing a surge of 33,000 troops in December 2009, Obama last
year said that he would draw down those combat forces by
September 2012 -- just before the election.  Tempering expectations for what the end result will be in
Afghanistan, Obama said in his speech that the goal can’t be
fully eradicating the Taliban.  “These objectives would require many more years, many more
dollars, and many more American lives,” he said.  Domestic Focus  At the same time, he said, leaving behind “a decade of
conflict abroad and economic crisis at home, it is time to renew
America.”  Hours after Obama left Afghanistan, a suicide bombing near
a camp for foreign workers in the capital of Kabul killed five
Afghan civilians and a security guard, police chief Ayub Salangi
said in a phone interview. The Taliban carried out the attack to
underscore its ability to strike at will, its spokesman
Zabihullah Mujahed said by phone.  The war has cost the lives of 1,831 U.S. military personnel
and about $443 billion, according to figures from the Defense
Department and the  Congressional Research Service . This year,
the administration plans to spend $90 billion on military
operations and $16 billion for aid, including training and
equipment. More than 1,000 troops from U.S. coalition partners,
which includes the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, also have
died.  Partnership Agreement  While acknowledging that American public support for the
war is waning, Obama said it would be irresponsible to leave too
quickly.  “We must give Afghanistan the opportunity to stabilize,”
he said. “Otherwise, our gains could be lost, and al-Qaeda
could establish itself once more. And as commander-in-chief, I
refuse to let that happen.”  The U.S.-Afghan Strategic Partnership Agreement, negotiated
over the past 20 months and signed by Obama and Afghan President
 Hamid Karzai , gives a framework for Afghan forces to take charge
of the country’s security in 2014 as the U.S. and its coalition
partners withdraw combat troops. It calls for supporting Afghan
efforts to reconcile with the Taliban and includes an Afghan
pledge to protect human rights and reduce corruption.  Chicago Summit  The accord says that any remaining U.S. troops will focus
strictly on counterterrorism and training of Afghan security
forces.  Funding for efforts in Afghanistan beyond 2014, the precise
number of U.S. troops remaining in Afghanistan after 2014, and
whether U.S. forces would be offered legal protections aren’t
outlined in the agreement.  Obama said the transition to Afghan responsibility for
their security has already begun. At the NATO summit in  Chicago 
later this month, allies will set a goal for Afghan forces to be
in the lead for combat operations across the country next year,
Obama said.  Twenty-three thousand troops will leave Afghanistan by the
end of the summer, in addition to 10,000 that left last year --
the number of troops he authorized for the surge, Obama said.  “After that, reductions will continue at a steady pace,
with more of our troops coming home,” Obama said. “As our
coalition agreed, by the end of 2014 the Afghans will be fully
responsible for the security of their country.”  Taliban Threat  As the president highlighted the eventual transfer of
authority to the Afghan government, the administration sought to
temper expectations of what will be left behind.  After more than 10 years of a sustained military presence,
U.S. relations with the Afghan government, as well as with
neighboring  Pakistan , have soured and the situation on the
ground has deteriorated.  The Taliban continues to pose a security threat even with
the gains that have been made since Obama’s revamped war
strategy. The Karzai government continues to be hobbled by
theft, bribery and the inability of its forces to control all
areas of the country.  “The insurgency remains a resilient and determined enemy
and will likely attempt to regain lost ground and influence this
spring and summer,” the Defense Department wrote in a semi-
annual report released in  Washington  yesterday. “Additionally,
the Afghan government continues to face widespread corruption
that limits its effectiveness and legitimacy.”  ‘Major Question’  Progress that’s been made since Obama ordered the surge of
troops in 2010 may be undermined by the withdrawal of U.S. and
allied combat forces in the next two years, the support of
insurgents by neighboring Pakistan and  Iran , and the remaining
connections between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, said Seth Jones, a
senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation in Arlington,
Virginia  “There’s a major question about whether this process can
be continued for the foreseeable future with the very light
force presence,” Jones, who has advised the U.S. military, said
in a telephone interview yesterday from  New York .  The Taliban are able to infiltrate “the villages and rural
areas of Afghanistan, especially in the south,” Waheed Mujda, a
former Taliban official who is now an analyst at the independent
Kabul Center for Strategic Studies, said in a phone interview.
Afghan security forces currently lack the equipment and training
needed to allow them to hold on to security gains as U.S. forces
withdraw, Mujda said.  Pakistan as ‘Partner’  The U.S. will still have the capacity to carry out
counterterrorism operations to keep al-Qaeda from resettling and
allow for a regional equilibrium that serves a national security
interest at home, according to an administration official who
briefed reporters on the flight to Afghanistan.  While the official said there would still likely be Taliban
influence in some villages and remote mountainous regions, the
threat will be mitigated by having a stable Afghan government in
control of major cities, roads and thoroughfares.  No matter what happens, there will still be sectarian
schisms in Afghanistan, the official said.  Addressing the issue of Pakistan, Obama balanced his
message, saying the U.S. won’t compromise its national security
interests, while also understanding the need to respect
Pakistan’s sovereignty.  Obama said he has made clear to Pakistan “that it can and
should be an equal partner in this process in a way that
respects Pakistan’s sovereignty, interests, and democratic
institutions. In pursuit of a durable peace, America has no
designs beyond an end to al-Qaeda safe havens and respect for
Afghan sovereignty.”  Purple Hearts  The president delivered his speech in a hangar adjacent to
where he addressed troops earlier in the day and where more than
a dozen members of the coalition forces were gathered to watch a
live feed.  Between the earlier remarks and the televised address,
Obama visited a hospital on the base. He gave out 10 Purple
Hearts and met with dozens of hospital personnel. Obama also
used the military radio network to communicate with the U.S.
military personnel working behind the scenes who helped support
the trip.  The trip was cloaked in secrecy for security reasons. The
White House released a schedule for the president that listed
separate closed meetings with senior advisers, Biden and Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Instead, the president left aboard Air Force One at 12:09
a.m. Washington time yesterday and flew through the night. The
aircraft landed in darkness at Bagram at 10:20 p.m. local time.
Obama’s plane took off for the return flight to the U.S. before
sunrise. Obama is scheduled to arrive back at the White House
later this morning.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Bagram Airfield at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  