-- Obama Should Negotiate With Chinese Leaders on Chen, Romney Says
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-05-01T12:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-should-negotiate-with-chinese-leaders-on-chen-romney-says.html
President  Barack Obama  should
negotiate “one on one” with Chinese leaders to ensure the
safety of a dissident’s family against government authorities,
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  said.  The human rights activist Chen Guangcheng, who is blind,
last week escaped house arrest in Shandong province, where he
had been held since his release from prison in 2010. In a video
posted on YouTube on April 27, a man who resembled Chen said he
was concerned his “wife and son are still under the devilish
hands” of authorities.  Obama needs to convey to Chinese leaders that “there
should be a real effort on the part of the Chinese government to
make sure that the abuses that have been described against
Mister Chen’s wife and his family stop immediately,” Romney
said today on CBS’s “This Morning.”  Chen is under U.S. protection in Beijing, Bob Fu, founder
of the U.S.-based human rights group ChinaAid, said in an April
27 e-mail. U.S. and Chinese officials are trying to come to an
agreement on Chen’s situation before Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner arrive for
talks in Beijing May 3-4.  At a White House press conference yesterday with Japanese
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , Obama declined to comment on
Chen.  In the CBS interview, Romney, a former Massachusetts
governor, also said an advertisement by Obama’s re-election
campaign that suggests he wouldn’t have ordered the raid on al-
Qaeda leader  Osama bin Laden ’s compound in Pakistan was “the
wrong course.”  “It was very disappointing for the president to make this
a political item,” he said. “Of course I would have taken out
Osama bin Laden.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  