-- Obama, Karzai Sign Accord on U.S. Role in Afghanistan
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-05-01T21:47:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-in-afghanistan-to-sign-accord-on-future-u-s-role.html
President  Barack Obama  arrived in
 Afghanistan  today on an unannounced trip to sign a strategic
partnership agreement with the Afghan government that is a
prelude to U.S. military disengagement from the decade-long war.  The accord outlining future U.S. support for Afghanistan
took more than a year of negotiations and marks a milestone for
the administration’s goal of handing over security
responsibility to local forces by the end of 2014.  “I’ve come to Afghanistan to mark a historic moment for
our two nations and to do so on Afghan soil,” Obama said at the
presidential palace in Kabul before he signed the accord with
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai . “I pay tribute to those Afghans
who have lost their lives alongside our men and women and
sacrificed for their country.”  Obama plans to follow the signing by delivering a televised
address from Bagram Airfield at about 7:30 p.m.  Washington  time,
before returning to the U.S.  The trip comes a year after the U.S. raid that killed Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader who plotted the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks that triggered the U.S. invasion of
Afghanistan in October 2001. The president arrived the same day
the Defense Department released a report saying the U.S.-led
effort in Afghanistan faces “long-term and acute challenges”
from militant sanctuaries in neighboring  Pakistan  and
“widespread corruption” in the Afghan government.  Turning a Page  Today’s events are the latest attempt by Obama to turn the
page on the country’s decade at war, in Iraq as well as in
Afghanistan. Although he inherited both conflicts from his
predecessor,  George W. Bush , and fulfilled a pledge to end the
war in Iraq, Obama took ownership of the Afghan war when he
announced a revamped strategy and troop surge in December 2010.  As the president highlights the eventual transfer of
authority to the Afghan government, the administration is
seeking to temper expectations of what will be left behind when
U.S. and coalition combat forces withdraw by 2014.  After more than 10 years of a sustained military presence,
U.S. relations with the Afghan government, as well as with
neighboring Pakistan, have soured and the situation on the
ground has deteriorated.  The Taliban continues to pose a security threat even with
the gains that have been made since Obama’s revamped war
strategy. The Karzai government continues to be hobbled by
theft, bribery and the inability of its forces to control all
areas of the country.  ‘Determined Enemy’  “The insurgency remains a resilient and determined enemy
and will likely attempt to regain lost ground and influence this
spring and summer,” the Defense Department wrote in a semi-
annual report sent to Congress yesterday and released in
Washington today. “Additionally, the Afghan government
continues to face widespread corruption that limits its
effectiveness and legitimacy.”  The war has cost the lives of 1,831 U.S. military personnel
and about $443 billion, according to figures from the Defense
Department and the  Congressional Research Service . This year,
the administration plans to spend $90 billion on military
operations and $16 billion for aid, including training and
equipment. More than 1,000 troops from U.S. coalition partners,
which includes the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, also have
died.  Message to Troops  Speaking to U.S. military personnel at Bagram after the
signing, Obama thanked the troops for their sacrifices and noted
that “a year ago we were able to finally bring  Osama bin Laden 
to justice.”  He said the signing of the partnership agreement “signals
the transition” to Afghan control.  “We’re not going to do it overnight, we aren’t going to do
it irresponsibly,” he said.  Progress that’s been made since Obama ordered a surge of
troops in 2010 may be undermined by the planned withdrawal of
U.S. and allied combat forces in the next two years, the support
of insurgents by neighboring Pakistan and Iran, and the
remaining connections between the Taliban and al-Qaeda, said
Seth Jones, a senior political scientist at the RAND Corporation
in Arlington, Virginia  “There’s a major question about whether this process can
be continued for the foreseeable future with the very light
force presence,” Jones, who has advised the U.S. military, said
in a telephone interview today from  New York .  U.S. Capacity  The U.S. will still have the capacity to carry out
counterterrorism operations to keep al-Qaeda from resettling and
allow for a regional equilibrium that serves a national security
interest at home, according to an administration official who
briefed reporters on the flight to Afghanistan.  While the official said there would still likely be Taliban
influence in certain villages and remote mountainous regions,
the threat will be mitigated by having a stable Afghan
government in control of major cities, roads and thoroughfares.  Obama met with Karzai amid heightened tensions after a
series of incidents involving U.S. military personnel have
eroded ties between the two countries.  U.S. officials apologized last month after photos were
published of U.S. Army soldiers desecrating the corpses of dead
insurgents in Afghanistan. Earlier this year a video was
released that showed U.S. Marines urinating on the bodies of
Afghans they had killed.  Civilian Deaths  In March, relations were further strained after the murder
of 17 Afghan civilians, for which U.S. Army Staff Sergeant
Robert Bales faces charges.  Obama in February apologized to Karzai for the burning of
Korans in a trash dump at Bagram that sparked riots and led to
attacks on U.S. personnel in Afghanistan. Two American advisers
were shot dead in the Interior Ministry Feb. 25, while nine
Afghans were killed and two American soldiers wounded in a
suicide car-bombing in eastern Afghanistan Feb. 27.  The fraying situation has extended into the 2012 campaign.
Falling support for the war from the American public has
provided an opening for Republicans, including the party’s
presumptive presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , to try to
undercut Obama’s strong approval ratings on foreign policy.  Sixty-nine percent of respondents in a March 26 New York
Times/CBS News poll said the U.S. should not be at war in
Afghanistan, with 68 percent saying the fighting was going
“somewhat badly” or “very badly” -- a jump from 42 percent
in November.  Policy Support  Obama, whose 2008 candidacy was largely based on his
initial opposition to the  Iraq  war, still receives his highest
job-approval ratings on foreign policy and national security
issues while his lowest ratings are on his handling of the
economy.  Romney has criticized the president as “naïve” for
telegraphing when the U.S may begin withdrawing combat troops
from Afghanistan and has said he would defer to generals on the
ground on troop levels and timelines. Still, he has indicated
that he supports the withdrawal of combat troops by the end of
2014.  The trip was cloaked in secrecy for security reasons. The
White House last night released a schedule for the president
that listed separate closed meetings with senior advisers, Vice
President  Joe Biden  and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  Instead, the president left aboard Air Force One at 12:09
a.m. Washington time and flew through the night. With lights off
and window shades drawn, the aircraft landing in darkness at
Bagram at 10:20 p.m. local time.  Helicopter Flight  After greeting U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan  Ryan Crocker 
and Army Lieutenant General Curtis Scaparrotti on the tarmac,
Obama boarded a Night Hawk helicopter for the 30-minute flight
to Kabul, where he met with Karzai at the presidential palace.
The helicopters flew to the capital without lights, and
reporters, ferried in separate craft, were issued body armor for
the ride.  Also in Afghanistan were Democratic Senators  Carl Levin  of
 Michigan , and Jack Reed of  Rhode Island , two members of the
Armed Services Committee who arrived in Afghanistan at 7:30 p.m.
local time last night. They were there as part of a broader trip
that includes stops in Turkey and NATO headquarters in Brussels.  Obama is scheduled to leave for Washington immediately
after tonight’s speech. This is his third trip to Afghanistan as
president. He was there last on Dec. 3, 2010, to address U.S.
forces at Bagram before the release of a review of the war
strategy which called for strengthening Afghan government
services and shutting down havens for militants across the
border in Pakistan.  NATO Summit  Administration officials had set a goal of having the
agreement signed before the May 21 NATO summit in  Chicago .  There, Obama will meet with NATO allies to seek agreements
on the next phase of the transition to support the goal of
ending combat missions in 2014, define the relationship with
Afghanistan after that period and work with the Afghans to
ensure that security forces are funded.  Negotiations for the U.S.-Afghan strategic partnership took
longer than a year, ending last month with Americans agreeing to
end night raids and to transfer its main prison at Bagram to
Karzai’s government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Kabul at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  