-- Obama Fails to Stem Middle-Class Slide He Blamed on Bush
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-05-01T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/obama-fails-to-stem-middle-class-slide-he-blamed-on-bush.html
Barack Obama  campaigned four years ago
assailing President  George W. Bush  for wage losses suffered by
the middle class. More than three years into Obama’s own
presidency, those declines have only deepened.  The rebound from the worst recession since the 1930s has
generated relatively few of the moderately skilled jobs that
once supported the middle class, tightening the financial
squeeze on many Americans, even those who are employed.  “It started long before Obama, but he hasn’t done
anything,” said John Forsyth, 58, a railroad-car inspector and
political independent from Lebanon, Ohio. “He kept pushing this
change, change, change, and he hasn’t done anything.”  Underlying the  erosion  of the middle class, defined by some
economists as the middle 60 percent of income earners, are
trends that stretch back decades, including competition from
lower-wage workers overseas and technological advances that
allow factories and offices to produce more with less labor.  As a candidate in 2008, Obama blamed the reversals largely
on the policies of Bush and other Republicans. He cited  census
figures  showing that median income for working-age households --
those headed by someone younger than 65 -- had dropped more than
$2,000 after inflation during the first seven years of Bush’s
time in office.  Yet real median  household income  in March was down $4,300
since Obama took office in January 2009 and down $2,900 since
the June 2009 start of the economic recovery, according to an
 analysis  of census data by Sentier Research, an economic-
consulting firm in Annapolis, Maryland.  1% Get 93%  A president who attacked Bush’s policies for favoring the
rich has overseen a recovery in which the wealthiest 1 percent
captured 93 percent of per-capita real income gains in 2010,
according to an  analysis  of tax data by Emmanuel Saez, an
economics professor at the  University of California  at Berkeley.  On average, families in the top 1 percent saw their
inflation-adjusted incomes rise by $105,637 that year from 2009,
according to Saez.  While there is no settled definition of middle class, the
middle 60 percent of households nationwide in 2010 earned
between $20,000 and $100,000, according to the U.S. Census.  In and around Dayton,  Ohio , a region that has endured a
wrenching shift from dependence on the  auto industry  to new
sources of growth such as distribution warehouses and
information technology, disappointment with Obama is often
balanced by wariness of his Republican challenger,  Mitt Romney .  “I don’t know if there’s anybody I’m going to vote for,”
Forsyth said of the candidates.  Limited Opportunity  While the U.S.  unemployment rate  fell from a peak of 10
percent in October 2009 to 8.2 percent in March, the jobs data
that dominate public discussion obscure a shift that has limited
opportunity for workers such as Forsyth.  Ninety-five percent of the net job losses during the
recession were in middle-skill occupations, such as office
workers, bank tellers and machine operators, according to
 research  by economists Nir Jaimovich of Duke University in
Durham,  North Carolina , and Henry Siu of the University of
British Columbia in Vancouver.  The job growth since has been clustered in either high-
skill fields inaccessible to workers without advanced education
or low-paying industries, they found.  In March, 3.2 million fewer Americans held sales and office
jobs than five years earlier, and 1.2 million fewer were
employed in transportation and production fields, all areas that
typically pay middle-income wages,  according to  the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  Dayton’s Dreams  By contrast, the number of better-paid managerial and
professional  employees  grew by almost 2 million over that period
and employment in lower-paying  service jobs  expanded by 1.5
million.  In Dayton -- the birthplace of aviation and such  inventions 
as the mechanical cash register, the self-starting car engine,
the stepladder and cellophane tape -- these trends have
diminished incomes and curtailed dreams.  Mandy Copeland, a 34-year-old occupational therapy
assistant, and her husband, a heating and ventilation
technician, have given up hope of trading their three-bedroom
ranch house for a home with a basement that they could turn into
a recreation room for their three children.  Eighteen-year-old Alex Ray recently decided he would wait
on attending a four-year college and instead spend his first
year at a local community college. His father, Tom Ray, a 47-
year-old information-technology project manager who only
recently regained a wage cut his employer imposed during the
recession, praised his son for a “very mature” choice that he
estimated would save $20,000.  Falling Birthrate  Fewer children  are being brought into the world; the
birthrate in Montgomery County, where Dayton is located, has
fallen every year since 2007, in keeping with a national trend.
Even the rituals of death have changed.  To save money, families are increasingly choosing cremation
over burial, said Anne Dunbar, co-owner of a funeral home in the
Dayton suburb of Springfield. Others are forgoing memorial
services for simple graveside ceremonies. Rather than flowers or
donations to a charity, 15 to 20 families a year now ask that
newspaper obituaries include a plea for contributions toward
funeral expenses, she said.  ‘The Real Majority’  The challenges facing residents in this Ohio city about 60
miles north of Cincinnati have been emblematic of the issues
that have moved centrist swing voters ever since the 1970
publication of “The Real Majority,” a top-selling political
analysis. Authors Richard Scammon and Ben Wattenberg created a
mythical 47-year-old Dayton housewife to argue that her most
pressing concerns had the potential to turn presidential
elections.  Today, the most pressing concern for Lisa Meeks, 47, is
making herself “more marketable” to potential employers.
Meeks, who left her pre-school teaching position because her
hours were reduced, now rides the bus to Sinclair Community
College in the morning and then boards another bus to get to her
new job, working the evening shift as a call-center manager.  “I’m still seeing people struggling,” said Meeks. “You
hear people saying, ‘I’ve put in four job applications and I
haven’t heard anything back. What am I doing wrong?’”  Though the scale is greater, the workplace shifts that
Dayton and the rest of the country are seeing parallel the Bush-
era job trends that Obama criticized four years ago, when he
said that during President Bill Clinton’s administration “the
average American family saw its income go up $7,500 instead of
go down $2,000, like it has under George Bush.”  Stopping Downturn  Arriving in the White House during a financial crisis,
Obama concentrated on stopping a downturn that many economists
feared could turn into a depression. He pressed for an $831
billion stimulus package and an auto-industry bailout. He cut
taxes for middle-class workers and backed a health-care overhaul
that he said would help middle-income families by keeping
 medical costs  down and easing access to insurance coverage.  To promote a skilled workforce, the Obama administration
has stressed support for education, including aid to local
schools to reduce teacher layoffs. It has emphasized
infrastructure improvements to promote competitiveness and
backed clean-energy technologies that could provide future jobs.  Romney says  deficit  spending to finance the stimulus,
uncertainty generated by the health law, and tighter regulation
of the financial industry have deterred businesses from hiring.
He backs reductions in  government spending  and tax cuts,
including for wealthy “job creators” to spur investment.  Nothing Obama has accomplished in office so far has stopped
what Siu calls “the hollowing out of the middle.”  No Overnight Fix  Just 19 percent of registered voters believe the
president’s policies favor the middle class, compared with 25
percent who say they benefit the rich, according to a CBS-New
York Times poll conducted Feb. 8-13. Still, asked to choose
which candidate would do a better job protecting the middle
class, 49 percent say Obama and 39 percent Romney, according to
an April 5-8 ABC News-Washington Post poll.  “The economic crisis, deep recession and wage stagnation
weren’t created overnight and they won’t be solved overnight,”
 Amy Brundage , a White House spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
“While we are making progress and the economy is growing and
creating jobs, too many middle class families are still
struggling to recover from the worst financial crisis of our
lifetimes caused by the reckless economic policies of the
past.”  Fundamental Forces  Siu and other economists attribute the phenomenon to such
fundamental forces as the movement of production offshore to
lower-cost countries and technological gains that have made U.S.
companies more efficient. Even with 5.2 million fewer Americans
employed since January 2008, the U.S. is turning out more goods
and services than before the recession, one reason  corporate
profits  hit record levels and wealthy investors prospered.  Robots are replacing factory workers. Airport kiosks are
taking the place of ticket agents.  Intuit Inc. (INTU) ’s TurboTax
software performs the work of accountants.  “This is early days. We see the next 10 years as being
more disruptive than the last 10,” said Erik Brynjolfsson,
director of the MIT Center for Digital Business and co-author of
the book “Race Against the Machine.” He cites developments in
artificial-intelligence technologies such as those in  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s experimental self-driving car,  International Business
Machine Corp. (IBM) ’s Jeopardy-playing Watson computer, and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s Siri voice-recognition software.  Plant Closing  That disruption is being felt in the Dayton area. Thousands
of auto workers and employees at related parts manufacturers and
machine-tool makers lost their jobs after  General Motors Co. (GM) 
closed its plant in nearby Moraine two days before Christmas in
2008. Less than six months later,  NCR Corp. (NCR) , once called
National Cash Register Co. and founded in Dayton in 1884, said
it would move its headquarters to Duluth, Georgia, taking more
than a thousand jobs with it.  Unemployment in the Dayton metropolitan region reached 12.4
percent in January 2010, though the jobless rate had come down
to 8.7 percent in February.  Some of the lost manufacturing and office jobs have been
replaced by growth in warehouse centers that take advantage of
the area’s location near the intersection of two interstate
highways, said Richard Stock, director of the Business Research
Group at the University of Dayton.  Caterpillar Logistics, a unit of Peoria, Illinois-based
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , and Carter Logistics LLC opened distribution
centers in the area. Employees at those and other warehouses are
paid “above a living wage, but they’re definitely for the most
part lower-middle-income jobs,” Stock said.  High Skills Needed  The other major sources of growth have been in information
technology, exemplified by  Teradata Corp. (TDC) , headquartered in
Dayton, and  Reed Elsevier Plc (REL) ’s Lexis Nexis unit, which has a
facility in the area, Stock said  Aeronautics and advanced materials manufacturing have also
expanded around Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, home of the Air
Force Materiel Command and Air Force Research Laboratory, Stock
said. GE Aviation, a unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based
 General Electric Co. (GE) , broke ground last year on a $51 million
research center in Dayton.  “Those jobs are at the very high-skilled end, jobs that
require quite a bit of education,” Stock said. “There are not
too many jobs in the middle.”  As a result, pay has declined. Real average weekly earnings
in the metropolitan area dropped to $800 last year from $817 in
2007, according to U.S. Labor Department data analyzed by Stock.  Sitting on a metal bleacher watching her 7-year-old son at
an early evening baseball practice, Mandy Copeland reflected on
the expectations she and her husband had six years ago when she
finished the coursework that qualified her for her occupational
therapy job.  “We had pretty high hopes,” she said. “Now we’re just
happy we have jobs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  