-- Occupy Wall Street Plans Global Protests in Resurgence
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-05-01T11:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/occupy-wall-street-plans-global-protests-in-resurgence.html
Occupy Wall Street  demonstrators,
whose anti-greed message spread worldwide during an eight-week
encampment in Lower Manhattan last year, plan marches across the
globe today calling attention to what they say are abuses of
power and wealth.  Organizers say they hope the coordinated events will mark a
spring resurgence of the movement after a quiet winter. Calls
for a general strike with no work, no school, no banking and no
shopping have sprung up on websites in Toronto,  Barcelona ,
 London ,  Kuala Lumpur  and  Sydney , among hundreds of cities in
North America,  Europe  and  Asia .  In New York, Occupy Wall Street will join scores of labor
organizations observing May 1, traditionally recognized as
International Workers’ Day. They plan marches from Union Square
to  Lower Manhattan  and a “pop-up occupation” of Bryant Park on
Sixth Avenue, across the street from  Bank of America’s Corp.’s 
55-story tower. Rain may limit the number of protesters.  “We call upon people to refrain from shopping, walk out of
class, take the day off of work and other creative forms of
resistance disrupting the status quo,” organizers said in an
April 26 e-mail.  Occupy groups across the U.S. have protested economic
disparity, decrying high foreclosure and unemployment rates that
hurt average Americans while bankers and financial executives
received bonuses and taxpayer-funded bailouts. In the past six
months, similar groups, using social media and other tools, have
sprung up in Europe, Asia and Latin America.  Pooling Resources  The Occupy movement in  New York  has relied on
demonstrations and marches around the city since Nov. 15, when
police ousted hundreds of protesters from their headquarters in
Zuccotti Park near Wall Street, where they had camped since
Sept. 17.  Banks have pooled resources and cooperated to gather
intelligence after learning of plans to picket 99 institutions
and companies, followed by what organizers have described as an
8 p.m. “radical after-party” in an undetermined Financial
District location.  “If the banks anticipate outrage from everyday citizens,
it’s revealing of their own guilt,” said Shane Patrick, a
member of the Occupy Wall Street press team. “If they hadn’t
been participating in maneuvers that sent the economy into the
ditch, we wouldn’t even be having this conversation.”  Police Prepared  Seven envelopes containing non-toxic white powder were sent
to bank branches in New York City on the eve of the protests,
the  Associated Press  reported, citing police. Bill Dobbs, a
spokesman for Occupy Wall Street, said the prank had nothing to
do with the demonstrations, according to the AP.  New York police can handle picketers, according to  Paul Browne , the department’s chief spokesman.  “We’re experienced at accommodating lawful protests and
responding appropriately to anyone who engages in unlawful
activity, and we’re prepared to do both,” he said in an
interview.  About 2,100 Occupy Wall Street protesters in New York have
been arrested since the demonstrations began, said Bill Dobbs, a
member of the group’s media-relations team.  In U.S. District Court in Manhattan yesterday, four City
Council members accused  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , Brookfield Office
Properties Inc., Mayor Michael Bloomberg and Police Commissioner
Raymond Kelly, of suppressing free speech and using excessive
force against protesters. The mayor is founder and majority
owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  Coming Together  Organizers describe the May Day events as a coming together
of the Occupy movement, with activists also calling for more
open immigration laws, expanded labor rights and cheaper
financing for higher education. Financial institutions remain a
primary target of the protests.  “Four years after the financial crisis, not a single of
the too-big-to-fail banks is smaller; in fact, they all continue
to grow in size and risk,” the group’s press office said in an
April 26 e-mail.  Five banks -- JPMorgan, Bank of America,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  together held
$8.5 trillion in assets at the end of 2011, equal to 56 percent
of the  U.S. economy , compared with 43 percent in 2006, according
to central bankers at the  Federal Reserve .  Blockades Planned  Occupy Wall Street began planning for May Day in January,
meeting in churches and union halls with a decision-making
system that avoids a single leader. Instead, participants rely
on group “break-out” sessions in which clusters discuss such
tasks as crowd-building, logistics and communications.  About 150 attended an April 25 meeting at the Greenwich
Village headquarters of the Amalgamated Clothing & Textile
Workers Union, making last-minute preparations for how to deploy
legal and medical help; site selection for picketing;
purchasing, production and distribution of protest signs; and
how to talk to reporters.  The meeting convened inside the union hall basement, where
attendees arranged chairs in a circle as three facilitators
asked each of the assembled to identify themselves by first name
and gender -- he, she or they. Most appeared under age 30,
though gray-haired baby boomers also participated. One of the
older attendees pulled a ski mask over his head to protest the
presence of a photographer from  Tokyo .  Art Performances  Today, beginning at 8 a.m. in Bryant Park,  scheduled events 
include teach-ins, art performances and a staging area for
“direct action and civil disobedience,” such as bank
blockades.  Tom Morello of the Grammy Award-winning rock band Rage
Against the Machine along with 1,000 other guitar-playing
musicians will accompany a march to Union Square at 2 p.m.,
according to the maydaynyc.org website. That will be followed by
a “unity rally” at Union Square at 4 p.m.; a march from there
to Wall Street at 5:30 p.m.; and a walk to a staging area for
“evening actions,” which organizers at the April 25 meeting
said would be the so-called after-party.  Occupy-related events are planned in  115 cities  throughout
the U.S., from college towns such as Amherst, Massachusetts, and
Ann Arbor, Michigan, to  Los Angeles , Houston, Chicago and
Philadelphia.  ‘Loud Outcry’  In  San Francisco , a group calling itself the Golden Gate
Bridge Labor Coalition abandoned a plan to close the span while
carrying on with a day of picketing to support bridge, ferry and
bus workers seeking reduced health-care benefit costs, according
to its  website .  Protesters said they would picket ferry
terminals, where a strike was planned by the Inlandboatmen’s
Union. Morning ferry service was canceled, said Mary Currie, a
spokeswoman for the Golden Gate Bridge, Highway and
Transportation District.  Across the bay in  Oakland , protesters said they intend
morning marches on banks and the Chamber of Commerce, followed
by an afternoon rally and a march downtown.  “We’re looking forward to vigorously asserting our
constitutional right to protest and giving a loud outcry about
Wall Street and greed,” Dobbs said. “We’re hoping this will
make a splash. We hope it will bring a lot of more people into
the Occupy movement.”  In Sydney, Occupy organizers said that instead of holding a
May Day rally, its supporters joined a protest march against
coal seam gas development. About 3,500 demonstrators, many
carrying banners and placards with slogans such as “Food Bowl,
Not Coal Hole” and “Fat Miners, No Conscience,” marched from
Martin Place to the state’s Parliament House, the New South
Wales Farmers’ Association said. Martin Place is in Sydney’s
central business district, and is home to the headquarters of
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net ;
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  