-- Hodgson Named England Manager Ahead of Fan Choice Redknapp
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-05-01T16:57:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/hodgson-named-england-manager-ahead-of-fan-choice-redknapp-1-.html
Roy Hodgson  was appointed England
soccer manager today, six weeks before the team opens its
European Championship campaign against  France .  The 64-year-old Englishman received a four-year contract
following discussions with a Football Association panel that
included chairman  David Bernstein  and general secretary Alex Horne. The former Switzerland national manager replaces Fabio Capello, who quit in February after disagreeing with the F.A.’s
decision to remove the captaincy from  John Terry .  “This is the first time the F.A. has appointed an England
manager with any previous international experience,” Bernstein
said at a news conference at Wembley Stadium. “His knowledge of
the international game is unquestioned. He can walk into any
training ground across the world and command respect.”  Hodgson’s appointment comes as U.K. newspapers including
the Sun question the move after pushing for the appointment of
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp . The Sun said almost half of
England fans wanted Redknapp, and only 13 percent Hodgson.  “It’s always a big job to win people over,” Hodgson said
at the news conference. “It’s important first to have a chance.
The only way to win people over is to do the job I am confident
I can do.”  The F.A. said Hodgson, who’s coached clubs including  Inter
Milan  and Liverpool as well as the U.A.E. and  Finland , was the
only person approached. Bernstein said the board decided on
Hodgson about a month ago but waited to ask his current club,
West Bromwich Albion, to speak to him as not to upset its
Premier League season. The team is in 10th place with two games
left.  Team Permission  West Brom gave permission on April 29 and following four
hours of talks yesterday, Hodgson concluded discussions today.
He’ll oversee West Brom’s final two matches of the league season
and then join England, although his club contract ends June 30.  “We always said we wanted to make an appointment around
now,” Bernstein said. “I think we got our timing absolutely
right.”  Stuart Pearce , England’s under-21 manager, has overseen the
national team’s training and an exhibition match since Capello’s
departure.  England has warmups against  Norway  on May 26 and  Belgium  a
week later before starting its Euro 2012 group games on June 11
against France. It then plays Sweden and tournament co-host
Ukraine.  “It’s going to be difficult, but hopefully I’ve got
time,” Hodgson said. “Obviously I’ve been working here the
last five years so the players are pretty well known to me even
though I haven’t worked with them all.”  Liverpool  Hodgson’s tenure at Liverpool lasted only six months before
he was fired in January 2011. He said the fans there never
accepted him and he’d not accept another job if supporters and
media didn’t back him.  Spurs manager Redknapp was the candidate pushed by
newspapers and former coaches, who expressed support for picking
an English manager. “Footie Fans Fury Over Roy,” ran a
headline in the Daily Star tabloid, while the Sun had a story
titled, “Readers Slam FA ‘Turnips.’”  ‘Never Shocked’  “I’m never shocked by things in football,” David Davies,
the F.A.’s former executive director, said in an interview. “I
thought, as did most people, Harry was the favorite. But the
favorite doesn’t always get chosen. If I was Harry would I be
upset? Yes I would.””  Davies said there are particular stresses to the role,
which one former national coach Graham Taylor once described as
an “impossible job.” Kevin Keegan quit the post in 2000,
breaking the news to Davies in the lavatory immediately after a
 World Cup  qualification defeat to Germany.  The  England  manager needs to be someone who “has a tight
group of people around them who support them up hill and down
dale and they don’t run away when the going gets tough because
it will get tough,” Davies said.  Hodgson is the latest manager hired by England as the
nation attempts to win its first major trophy since the 1966
World Cup, which it hosted. England failed to make the last
European Championship in 2008 and was eliminated in the second
round of the World Cup in 2010 following a 4-1 loss to Germany.  Tournament Record  Even after its poor tournament record, England is the
fourth favorite with U.K. bookmaker William Hill to win the
European Championship, behind  Spain ,  Germany  and the
Netherlands.  “England always have to go into tournaments to win them
because we are a major football power,” Hodgson said. “I think
the players would be very disappointed if we expected anything
less of them to win the tournament.”  Hodgson took over West Brom in February 2011, taking the
team out of relegation trouble last season and established it as
a mid-table Premier League club this year. He was named Manager
of the Year after taking Fulham to the Europa League final in
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at Wembley Stadium in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net ; Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  