-- Oil Drilling Advocates Drive Presidential Debate With Ads
-- B y   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-05-01T12:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/oil-drilling-advocates-driving-presidenti-debate-with-ads.html
While polls show the economy as the
top concern of voters, a review of political attack ads suggests
a different issue dominates: energy.  Americans for Prosperity, an organization backed by oil
interests, last week began airing its third television
commercial since November, a campaign worth $6.1 million,
attacking Obama’s green  energy  policies.  The latest round brings the group’s total ad buys to $12.5
million this year, compared with a combined $5.7 million total
spent on ads of all sorts by Obama and Priorities USA Action, a
Washington-based super political action committee supporting
him. Priorities on April 24 teamed with the League of
Conservation Voters to begin a $1 million commercial run that
accuses presumed Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney ,
the former governor of Massachusetts, of being a protector of
the oil industry.  “Energy is the issue unless the entire economy starts to
unwind,” said  Stephen Brown , a lobbyist for oil refiner  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO)  of  San Antonio , Texas.  That’s not the conclusion of the White House, which
includes energy policy in a broader discussion about the economy
and  job creation . The ability of oil interest groups, though, to
attempt to carve out and elevate their issue is the latest
example of how the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision has
changed politics by allowing corporations, unions and wealthy
individuals to spend unlimited sums to drive the debate.  ‘Buy the Election’  “While the president fights every day to build an economy
where everybody gets a fair shot and does their fair share,
special interests across the country are mobilizing to buy the
election for Governor Romney to try to promote their interests
over the interests of the American people,”  Ben LaBolt , Obama’s
campaign spokesman, said in response to Americans for
Prosperity’s latest ad buy.  In April, 16,991 negative ads aired in various parts of the
country and 13,748 of them -- or 81 percent -- focused on
energy, according to data provided by New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising.  Republicans say the ads are timely and effective because
high  gasoline prices  put Obama on defense at the onset of the
general election. Democrats say they prove that Republicans are
struggling to find an effective attack line amid an economy that
is showing signs of recovery.  Economy, Jobs  According to an April 13-17 CBS News/New York Times poll,
48 percent of Americans say the economy and jobs are the most
important problem facing the country today. Fuel costs, which
were chosen by 3 percent, fell behind health care and the budget
 deficit  and national debt. The poll had a three-percentage-point
margin of error.  The U.S.  unemployment rate  held at 8.2 percent in March,
highlighting a strengthening economy that may bolster Obama as
he approaches the November election. The nation’s gross domestic
product grew at an annual rate of 2.2 percent in the first
quarter of 2012 from the fourth quarter of last year.  “The number of targets are shrinking” for Obama’s
opponents, said Daniel Weiss, a senior fellow at the Washington-
based Center for American Progress, a Democrat-aligned policy
group in  Washington . “They believe that they can attack the
president on trying to build a clean  energy industry .”  Other Groups  Other groups running energy ads include the American Energy
Alliance, a Washington-based nonprofit group funded in part by
U.S. oil companies and headed by Thomas Pyle, a former lobbyist
for the  National Petrochemical and Refiners Association  and Koch
Industries. In March, it began a $3.6 million television
campaign targeting Obama on gas prices.  Let Freedom Ring, an advocacy organization active with ads
targeting Obama in 2008 and whose founder is evangelical
Christian John Templeton, and Washington-based Crossroads
Grassroots Policy Strategies, which is affiliated with
Republican political strategist  Karl Rove , are also airing
commercials critical of the president’s  energy policy .  The biggest player has been Virginia-based Americans for
Prosperity, which spent $6 million on a spot that began in
January targeting Obama’s support for Solyndra LLC, the failed
solar-panel maker that won a $535 million loan guarantee from
the government. The group, funded in part by the billionaire oil
magnates David and  Charles Koch , earlier had spent $2.4 million
on ads focusing on Solyndra in battleground states.  Jobs Overseas  The ad campaign it started last week claims that “billions
of taxpayer dollars spent on green energy went to jobs in
foreign countries.” The  American Petroleum Institute  in
Washington gave $25,500 to AFP in 2010, according to Internal
Revenue Service filings.  “This administration has had an almost obsessive focus on
their global warming agenda,” AFP President  Tim Phillips  told
reporters April 26. Obama has been focused “on an ideology as
opposed to genuinely trying to get this economy moving again,”
he said.  Yet some of the information in the ad is misleading. Among
its claims: $1.2 billion went to a solar company building a
plant in Mexico and $500 million went to an electric car company
that created hundreds of jobs in Finland.  According to an investigation by ABC News and the Center
for Public Integrity’s iWatch News, Anaheim, California-based
Fisker Automotive Inc. is assembling its first line of cars in
Finland, though its chairman, Henrik Fisker, has said the U.S.
money has been spent on engineering and design work that stayed
in the U.S.  ‘Four Pinocchios’  The solar money went to a facility in California for a
company that owns a separate plant in Mexico, according to the
Washington Post’s “Fact Checker” column, which gave the ad
“four Pinocchios” -- its highest rating for falsity.  The Obama campaign responded this morning with a commercial
of its own, quoting the “Fact Checker” column that described
the ad against the president as “erroneous” and “over the
top.” It said Romney had “shipped American jobs to places like
Mexico and  China ” as a corporate executive and had outsourced
state jobs to a call center in India as governor of
 Massachusetts . “It’s just what you’d expect from a guy who had
a Swiss bank account,” the Obama ad ends.  In the first three months of 2012, the anti-Obama groups
spent $16.7 million on negative ads on energy policy, according
to an analysis by the Center for American Progress.  “This administration has had the fossil fuel industry writ
large in its sights since day one,” said Brown, the Tesoro
lobbyist.  Pro-Obama Ad  The new pro-Obama ad from Priorities and the Washington-
based League of Conservation Voters is titled the “$200 Million
Man,” and says Romney has pledged to protect oil company
profits and billions of dollars in special tax breaks. It began
running in Nevada and Colorado.  Priorities is convinced the Koch brothers alone will spend
$200 million on Romney’s behalf in this election cycle, said
Paul Begala, a Democratic strategist who is advising Priorities.  “The question here is ‘cui bono,’” or “who benefits?”
he said in a conference call with reporters. “We just want to
draw that picture for voters.”  Gas prices  may become less potent an issue. Gasoline prices
have fallen 11.1 cents since peaking at $3.941 on April 2. The
 national average price  for regular gasoline dropped 1 percent to
$3.83 a gallon from a week earlier, according to an Energy
Department report.  “All this money spent on energy only is going to have an
impact if prices remain high,” said  Bruce Oppenheimer , a
political scientist who also studies energy policy at  Vanderbilt
University  in Nashville.  He also said the spending disparity may not hurt Democrats
as some Obama supporters might think. “We tend to think that
the amount of spots is the whole ball of wax,” he said. “What
you’ve got to avoid are unanswered attacks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  