-- Industry Fought EPA Texas Chief Who Quit in ‘Crucify’ Furor
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-05-01T17:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/oil-industry-fought-epa-texas-chief-who-quit-in-crucify-furor.html
Before the notice was issued, the top
official in  Texas  for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
alerted health advocates that an emergency order was being
issued against gas-driller  Range Resources Corp. (RRC)   “We’re about to make a lot of news,” Al Armendariz, who
resigned yesterday as administrator for EPA Region 6 in Dallas,
 wrote  in the 2010 e-mail. “Thank you all for your continued
support and friendship.”  For critics, the advance word is just one example of a cozy
relationship with environmentalists, ties they say led
Armendariz to be an adversary to the oil and gas industry and a
symbol of what lobbyists say is a hostile administration.  Before he took over in 2009, a  study  he wrote said drilling
is the major cause of air pollution in  Dallas , a finding
disputed by industry and state regulators. He had a cameo in the
anti-hydraulic fracturing movie “Gasland” and was promoted to
President  Barack Obama  by environmentalists, who said the civil
engineering  professor  from  Southern Methodist University  would
be tough on polluters.  He quit yesterday after comments from a 2010 video surfaced
in which he linked regulation and crucifixion.  “He was a target from day one,” Sharon Wilson, organizer
in Allen, Texas, for Earthworks Oil and Gas Accountability
Project who blogs at  Bluedaze , said in an interview. Wilson, a
recipient of Armendariz’s 2010 e-mail, added: “He was doing the
best job anybody possibly could in Texas, given the political
jujitsu he had to operate under.”  Hostile Agenda  Oklahoma Republican Senator  James Inhofe  quoted from the
video in a speech on the Senate floor last week and called it
emblematic of an EPA agenda hostile to energy.  “I’m disappointed that he wasn’t able to make the
transition” from “environmental activist to environmental
regulator,” Bryan Shaw, chairman of the Texas Commission of
Environmental Quality, said in an interview. “As a regulator,
you need to weigh both sides.”  In the  videotaped  remarks from a meeting in Dish, Texas,
Armendariz told staff members enforcing environmental laws to
follow the example of the Romans, who would subdue Turkish towns
by crucifying the first five people they ran across. “And then
you know that town was really easy to manage for the next few
years,” he said.  Armendariz , who apologized for the comments, said he tried
to use the same approach to get companies to obey environmental
laws: “You make examples out of people who are not complying
with the law,” he said.  ‘It’s About Policy’  “This whole issue isn’t about semantics, it’s about
policy,”  Charles Drevna , president of the American Fuel &
Petrochemical Manufacturers in Washington, said in an interview.
He “got caught on camera telling the truth.”  Representative  Joe Barton  of Texas and five other
Republicans on the House Energy and Commerce Committee who had
criticized Armendariz said in a statement that they remained
concerned his comments “reflect the agency’s overall
enforcement philosophy.”  Armendariz didn’t return a telephone message left on a
number listed in public telephone records. An e-mail sent to his
EPA address bounced back. He wasn’t available for an interview,
said David Bloomgren, a spokesman for EPA.  Leak Order  Industry groups say Armendariz was confrontational when
handling complaints about water contamination from hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking. In December 2010, Armendariz’s office
ordered Range Resources to fix leaks in Parker County, Texas. A
local resident said he could ignite gas coming from his well,
and EPA said it found benzene, a carcinogen, in drinking water.  The EPA dropped a lawsuit against Range on March 30, saying
it wanted to “shift the agency’s focus” away from litigation.  “Armendariz issued a baseless order against a company,
bragged to his activist friends about it, and was later forced
to admit he had no case,” Simon Lomax, research director at the
gas-drilling trade group Energy in Depth in  Washington , said in
an e-mail. Matt Pitzarella, a spokesman for Range Resources,
didn’t return a telephone message.  Supporters said Armendariz and the EPA are doing just what
they should: protecting local residents dealing with
contamination and health risks.  “He’s a measured scientist, and he’s advocated solutions
for the industry that doesn’t cost them anything,” Josh Fox,
the director of “Gasland,” said in an interview. The movie is
critical of fracking, in which water, sand and chemicals are
shot into the ground to break apart rock and free trapped gas.
“You’ve got a huge, huge problem in Texas, and he’s pursued it,
rightfully so.”  Tighten Rules  Armendariz also led the push to tighten the way chemical
and oil refineries were permitted, by measuring pollution at its
source rather than rating an entire plant’s emissions.  That drew the enmity of companies that faced what
effectively amounted to tougher standards, said Tom “Smitty”
Smith, director of the Public Citizen’s Texas office.  “He got crucified for following the law, and doing what
any enforcement officer should do, which was to choose the big
violators and make an example out of them,” Smith said.  An official from Koch Industries Inc., a Wichita, Kansas-
based company that operates chemical and refining companies,
said in an e-mail that the company was able to reach agreement
on new air permits for facilities in the region.  Drilling Study  “We worked cooperatively and productively with the EPA and
Mr. Armendariz concerning air permitting issues under the  Clean
Air Act  in Texas in 2010,” said Melissa Cohlmia, a spokeswoman
for Koch Companies Public Sector LLC. “We were able to resolve
those issues in a mutually satisfactory manner.”  Some industry official took issue with Armendariz even
before he joined the EPA. The study he helped write for the
Environmental Defense Fund in January 2009, said that drilling
the  Barnett Shale  was responsible for more smog in Dallas and
Fort Worth area than motor vehicles.  Gas drillers and the state say prevailing winds and
measurement errors mean those results are wrong. Environmental
Defense, a green group that is often supportive of gas drilling,
said the results have withstood the scrutiny.  “He is an excellent scientist, and his study has stood
up,” Jim Marston, head of the Texas office for Environmental
Defense, said in an interview. “But he was not a political guy,
and this was a group of people looking to pounce, and sadly he
gave them an opening.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  