-- Thomson Reuters Manager Fired in Unit Sale Sues for Lost Bonus
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-05-01T15:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/thomson-reuters-manager-fired-in-unit-sale-sues-for-lost-bonus.html
A former  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  manager
sued the company for about 2.6 million pounds ($4.2 million),
saying he was wrongly fired for “improper” conduct during the
2012 sale of the company’s risk-management business.  Andrew White, who ran the company’s trade and risk
management arm, is seeking wages, bonuses and other benefits
lost when he was dismissed for alleged gross misconduct in
November, according to a complaint filed in  London . Documents
describing the claim were filed in March and released by the
court April 27.  Vista Equity Partners LLC, based in  San Francisco ,
completed a deal in February to buy Thomson Reuters’ risk
management software unit for an undisclosed sum. It renamed the
business Turaz, according to a  statement  on its website.  “ Thomson Reuters  believes the claim filed by Andrew White
is without merit and we will defend vigorously,” Yvonne Diaz, a
spokeswoman for the company in London, said in an e-mailed
statement. She wouldn’t comment on the alleged misconduct.  White’s lawyer, Angela Simpson, said in an e-mail that her
client had filed a wrongful dismissal claim related to the sale
of the risk management business. She declined to comment
further.  White was scheduled to receive a one-time bonus of $500,000
on completion of the sale to Vista, according to his complaint.
His annual salary as head of the unit was about 260,000 pounds
with a bonus of as much as 390,000 pounds.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  The case is White v. Reuters Ltd.,  High Court  of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ12X01295.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  