-- Morgan Stanley’s Jennings Gets Nonjury Stabbing Trial
-- B y   J o h n   D i l l o n
-- 2012-05-01T17:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/morgan-stanley-s-jennings-gets-non-jury-trial-in-stabbing-case.html
William Bryan Jennings, the  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  U.S. bond-underwriting chief accused of stabbing a New
York cab driver over a fare, will leave his fate to a judge
rather than a jury.  Jennings appeared today in state court in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , where he waived his right to a  jury trial . Judge
Richard F. Comerford Jr. set a pretrial hearing for May 25.  “The route to the quickest resolution of this matter is by
a judge,” a defense attorney, Eugene Riccio, said after the
hearing. Riccio said he will also continue to pursue a motion to
dismiss the charges. His client had no comment on the case.  Assistant State’s Attorney Steven Weiss had no immediate
comment on the case.  Jennings is accused of attacking the driver, Mohamed Ammar,
on Dec. 22 with a 2 1/2-inch blade and using racial slurs after
a 40-mile ride from  New York  to the banker’s home in Darien,
Connecticut. Ammar, a native of  Egypt  and a U.S. citizen, said
Jennings called him a name and said, “I’m going to kill you.
You should go back to your country,” according to the police
report.  Jennings faces assault and hate-crime charges, which each
brings a maximum sentence of five years in prison. He’s also
charged with not paying the fare, a misdemeanor. He pleaded not
guilty March 9.  Motion to Dismiss  On March 28, Jennings filed a motion seeking to have the
case dismissed, arguing Ammar contradicted himself in statements
to the police. The case should be dropped because the arrest
warrant contains false statements and omissions that “seriously
undermine” Ammar’s credibility, according to the filing.  Jennings flagged Ammar down in front of Ink48, a hotel on
 Manhattan ’s West Side, sometime before 11 p.m. after the banker
said his car service didn’t appear, according to the police
report. Jennings had attended a company Christmas party.  Ammar told police that once they reached Jennings’s
$3.4 million home, he refused to pay the $204 fare they had
agreed on. He said he drove away trying to find police and that
during the ride the banker stabbed him in the hand. Jennings
said they never agreed on an amount and Ammar demanded $294,
which he viewed as exorbitant.  Jennings said in his motion that Ammar told police the
night of the incident that it occurred in or near his driveway,
and that he drove away with Jennings in the car and was then
able to dial 911.  Driver’s Account  A week later, the driver said the stabbing happened after
he had driven off to find police and that they were on Route 1
in Darien, according to Jennings’s filing.  Ammar didn’t tell the police about the derogatory remarks
on the night of the incident, according to the filing. He first
mentioned them a week later, it said.  Jennings said Ammar “unlawfully restrained” him by
driving away with him in the car, to the point that the banker
feared he was being taken back to  New York City .  The banker said he never stabbed Ammar, according to his
police statement. He told police the driver cut his hand trying
to grab the knife from him, which he said he wielded because he
feared he was being abducted. Ammar denied that he tried to take
Jennings back to New York.  Jennings turned himself in two weeks later after a vacation
in  Florida  and was charged with second-degree assault, theft of
services and intimidation by bias or bigotry. He said he never
threatened to kill Ammar or told him to go back to his country.  Pen Pendleton, a spokesman for New York-based Morgan
Stanley, said March 2 that Jennings has been put on leave.  The case is State of Connecticut v. Jennings 12-0176761,
Superior Court for the State of Connecticut (Stamford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Dillon  at Connecticut Superior Court in Stamford at
   jdillon@snet.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  