-- Los Angeles Gasoline Strengthens to Two-Month High on Shutdowns
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-05-01T22:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/los-angeles-gasoline-strengthens-to-two-month-high-on-shutdowns.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  advanced to a two-month high against futures on
speculation that plant equipment shut for work is forcing
refiners to buy supplies off the  spot market .  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  is shutting a hydrocracker at the Golden Eagle
refinery northeast of San Francisco until around May 21 for
planned repairs, a person with direct knowledge of the schedule
said today.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Phillips 66 (COP)  said they are
also performing maintenance on equipment at their Northern
California refineries.  California-blend gasoline, or Carbob, in Los Angeles jumped
14.75 cents to a premium of 30 cents a gallon against futures
traded on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange at 4:13 p.m. East
Coast time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest level since Feb. 28.  Tesoro’s Golden Eagle and Kapolei refineries are performing
planned maintenance on unspecified units, Tina Barbee, a
spokeswoman at the company’s headquarters in  San Antonio , said
by e-mail. The work won’t “have any impact on Tesoro’s ability
to fulfill its regional product supply commitments,” she said.  The 170,000-barrel-a-day Golden Eagle plant is pulling feed
from the hydrocracker for work that’s scheduled to begin May 9
and last 10 to 12 days, said the person familiar with the
refinery’s operations. The person declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public.  Phillips 66  Phillips 66 (PSX-W)  is scheduled to flare gases through May 3 at
the Los Angeles refinery in  Southern California , according to a
notice to the  South Coast Air Quality Management District . The
139,000-barrel-a-day  refinery  began a maintenance turnaround on
the cogeneration plant and catalyst regeneration on a unifier
and hydrotreater unit April 20 that was expected to last two
weeks, a person with knowledge of the work said April 23.  Rich Johnson , a spokesman at the company’s headquarters in
Houston, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail requesting
comment on the planned flaring.  San Francisco Carbob jumped 15 cents to 36 cents a gallon
above gasoline futures, the highest level since Feb. 24.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in Los Angeles was
unchanged at a premium of 11.75 cents a gallon against Nymex
heating oil futures. The same fuel in  San Francisco  was also
unchanged at a premium of 20 cents a gallon versus futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , a
benchmark for the U.S. Northwest, rose 5 cents to 20 cents a
gallon above gasoline futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  was
unchanged at a 25-cent premium to heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in San Francisco at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  