-- Hot Pink Party Raises $5.5 Million for Breast Cancer Cure
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-05-01T12:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/hot-pink-party-raises-5-5-million-for-breast-cancer-cure.html
Wilbur Ross , the billionaire chairman
of private-equity firm WL Ross & Co., pushed up his tuxedo
sleeve to reveal a custom Van Cleef & Arpels timepiece.  “It’s a Magritte,” Ross said of the image on the watch’s
pink face, depicting two petrified blue apples. “It’s our
painting; it’s hanging in  Palm Beach .”  Rich Sommer, who plays Harry Crane on “Mad Men,” wore less-
expensive pink at the  Breast Cancer Research Foundation  Hot Pink
Party last night at the Waldorf Astoria.  “I bought my tie on the street for $4,” Sommer said. The
actor, in town for a revival of the play “Harvey,” wore it with
a  Joseph Abboud  suit.  At the same table in the ballroom, decorated with pink
umbrellas and paper butterflies, was “Girls” star Allison
Williams, in hot pink  Donna Karan .  “I’m sure I’ve given him something pink,” Williams said of
gifts to her dad, NBC’s  Brian Williams , who sat across the room
with musician  Elton John  and Estee Lauder chairman emeritus
Leonard Lauder.  Leonard became acting chairman of the foundation after the
death of his wife, Evelyn Lauder, in November.  “BCRF is what we call a pure play,” Leonard said.  Since Evelyn started the foundation in 1993, it has
distributed more than $360 million to scientists to work on a
cure.  Last night’s event, a tribute to “Evelyn’s Dream,” raised
more than $5.5 million, including $50,000 for a four-day stay in
the Lauder family Palm Beach home.  Bloomingdale’s Philanthropy  “Evelyn always wanted everyone to be involved, and she was
never afraid of asking anybody for help,” said Anne Keating, who
oversees philanthropy at Bloomingdale’s, which raised $1.3
million last year to fund four scientists.  Richard Perry, president of Perry Partners LLC, said he
will take part in a Stand Up Paddle -- that’s standing on a surf
board and rowing -- on Aug. 11 in the Hamptons to raise money
for the foundation.  Perry and his designer wife, Lisa, in her own Jeff Koons-
inspired Pink Panther cocktail dress, sat with John Griffin of
Blue Ridge Capital and  Edward Lampert , chairman of Sears Holding
Corp., which yesterday filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to spin off its Hometown and Outlet stores.  Lampert’s wife, Kinga Lampert, is on the board of the
Breast Cancer Research Foundation and was an event co-chairman
with others including Evelyn’s niece Jane Lauder, wife of  Kevin Warsh , former member of the Federal Reserve board of governors.  Elton Sings  After dessert, Elton John performed hits “Tiny Dancer,” in
honor of Evelyn, and “Rocket Man,” in honor of Leonard.  Asked how Evelyn would feel about the festivities, her son
Gary, manager director of venture-capital firm Lauder Partners,
LLC, replied, “Nachas,” invoking the Yiddish word for joy.  “I’d call her a saint,” said Jayne Jamison, publisher and
chief revenue officer of Hearst’s Seventeen magazine.  “It’s one thing to sell lipsticks,” Evelyn once said in an
interview. “It’s extraordinary to know you’re saving lives.”  Information:  http://www.bcrfcure.org/   ( Amanda Gordon  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include: Mark Beech on  music ,
Richard Vines on  restaurants .  -- Editors: Mark Beech, Richard Vines.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 