-- Motorola Mobility Defeats Apple ‘Finger Swipe’ Patent Claim
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-05-01T16:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/motorola-mobility-defeats-apple-finger-swipe-patent-claim-1-.html
Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI) 
defeated an Apple Inc. “finger swipe” patent-infringement
claim when a federal judge in  Chicago  found that tapping an item
on a touch screen wasn’t the same as swiping it.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner’s April 27 ruling,
posted to the Chicago federal court docket yesterday, resolves
in part one of several competing claims scheduled to be tried
starting June 11.  His decision addresses Apple’s claim that six applications
available on Motorola Mobility-made devices, including those
used for browsing photographs, musical album covers and YouTube
Inc. videos, infringe its touch-screen finger-tap functionality
patent.  “Apple contends that the finger swipe is equivalent to a
finger tap because the two gestures are interchangeable,” wrote
Posner, who typically presides over appellate cases. “If
consumers distinguish between the two, they are not
interchangeable.”  The Chicago case is one of several in the U.S. and
elsewhere pitting the Cupertino, California-based iPhone maker
against Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, which
produces phones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is working to
acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion. The company was
spun off from  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  last year. Google acquired
YouTube in 2006.  Limited Scope  Posner limited the scope of his ruling for Motorola
Mobility on Apple’s claim of patent infringement with respect to
an Amazon.com Inc. application that allows readers to access
electronic books without using Amazon’s Kindle device.  While the judge held that Motorola Mobility wasn’t liable
for infringement caused when users downloaded and installed
Amazon’s Kindle reader application on their Motorola devices, he
declined to rule in Motorola’s favor for those products sold
with the application pre-installed.  In an April 3 ruling, Posner said the companies’ claims
will be resolved in as many as four trials, one addressing each
competitor’s liability claims then, if necessary, equitable
issues and damages.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  