-- Lloyds Exceeds Target on Asset Reductions as Profit Rises
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-05-01T15:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/lloyds-first-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-impairments-fall.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  will shrink
assets further and faster than forecast as Britain’s biggest
mortgage lender reduces its reliance on short-term funding.  The lender raised its asset-reduction plan for the year by
5 billion pounds ($8.1 billion) to at least 30 billion pounds
and expects to meet its 2014 target a year early, London-based
Lloyds said in a statement today. Pretax profit in the first
quarter more than doubled to 628 million pounds, beating the 422
million-pound median estimate of seven analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Antonio Horta-Osorio, 48, is
seeking to strengthen Lloyds’s balance sheet by selling assets,
cutting costs and bolstering its capital strength. Lloyds, which
cut more than 30,000 jobs since its 20 billion-pound taxpayer
rescue in 2008, reduced its reliance on short-term funding by 41
percent in the first quarter. The bank plans to provide a
schedule for the potential resumption of dividends after it
reports first half earnings in July, Horta-Osorio told analysts
today.  “Lloyds is very much focused on getting its balance sheet
in order and this shows they are making good progress,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool, said.
“Pretty much all the balance sheet metrics are moving in the
right direction.”  Lloyds rose 8.3 percent to 33.6 pence in  London  trading,
less than half the 73.6 pence the government paid for its stake
when it provided a bailout in 2008 after its takeover of HBOS
Plc. The shares have gained 30 percent this year, making it the
third-best  performer  in the five-member FTSE 350 Banks Index.  ‘Strong Progress’  The lender hit its target of reducing its loan to deposit
ratio to 130 percent two years early and is seeking a 120
percent ratio within 12 months, Lloyds said. That means the
company would lend 120 pence for every pound of deposits. The
bank had a loan-to-deposit ratio of 148 percent in the first
quarter of last year. Lloyds increased customer deposits 6
percent to 412 billion pounds in the period.  “The strong progress we have made in the first quarter
supports our confidence in the delivery of our 2012 financial
guidance, despite economic and regulatory headwinds and
competitive markets,” Horta-Osorio, said in the statement.
“Our income driven medium-term financial targets are achievable
over time.”  Margin Narrows  The bank said in February it won’t meet the target it set
in June of boosting return on equity to between 12.5 percent and
14.5 percent by the end of 2014. The bank had a 6.2 percent loss
on equity for 2011. Horta-Osorio said he expects the bank’s net
interest margin, the difference between what it earns on loans
and its cost of funding, will be below 2 percent in 2012,
maintaining his earlier guidance. The margin narrowed to 1.95
percentage points in the first quarter, from 2.16 percent points
a year ago.  Lloyds cut its reliance on wholesale funding by 24 percent
to 231.3 billion pounds. Funding with a maturity of less than
one year fell by 41 percent to 91.4 billion pounds. The bank
boosted its core Tier 1 ratio, a measure of financial strength,
to 11 percent in the quarter, from 10 percent a year earlier.
That exceeds the 9.5 percent target required by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision  for lenders such as Lloyds,
which are deemed too big to fail.  The bank shrank its use of the Credit Guarantee Scheme, the
British government’s banking-assistance program, by 10.6 billion
pounds and the lender said it will repay the remaining 12.9
billion pounds this year. Lloyds, which has weaned itself off
emergency funding support from the  Bank of England , took 11.4
billion pounds of three-year loans from the  European Central
Bank  at a Feb. 29 auction.  ‘Path to Normality’  ‘The path to normality for Lloyds is now well advanced,’’
said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Securities in London.
“The loan to deposit and the core Tier 1 ratios are much better
than expected. They appear to have shrunk the balance sheet by
more than expected without any negative surprises.”  Following its bailout, Lloyds set up the non-core division,
which houses operations designated for sale or winding down such
as its entire Irish operation. Lloyds shrunk the division by
44.6 billion pounds to 128.3 billion pounds in the year through
March. The lender said it has completed its program of bond
sales in 2012.  The drop in loan impairments in the first quarter was
driven by lower charges in Ireland, which fell to 526 million
pounds from 1.14 billion pounds. More than two-thirds of all its
Irish loans were impaired at the end of the first quarter.  Insurance Mis-Selling  The bank set aside an additional 375 million pounds to
compensate customers who were mis-sold payment protection
insurance after a 3.2 billion-pound charge last year. PPI
complaints increased in the first quarter, driven by claims-
management companies, the lender said.  Lloyds reported a statutory pretax profit of 288 million
pounds in the quarter, compared with a 3.47 billion loss a year
earlier.  The insurance of payments on credit cards and mortgages in
case of illness or unemployment, was improperly sold by the
biggest U.K. banks. Clients who bought the policies rarely
compared prices or terms and sometimes were not covered.  “Lloyds and HBOS sold this product for too long and with
significant intensity,” Horta-Osorio told reporters on a
conference call today. “As soon as I became CEO, it was
something I stopped.”  Barclays Plc last week set aside an additional 300 million
pounds for compensation after 1 billion-pound charge last year.  Lloyds said last week it would consider alternative bids
for 632 branches it has to sell, exiting an “exclusivity
agreement” it had with Co-Operative Group Ltd., and paving the
way to reopen talks with  NBNK Investments Plc. (NBNK)  Lloyds has to
sell the assets by the end of November 2013 to comply with
European Union state-aid rules after its bailout.  Horta-Osorio said today he’s “very happy” there’s renewed
interest in the branches and is “very much” willing to engage
with NBNK.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  