-- Peru April CPI Rises Faster-Than-Expected 0.5% on Food, Fuel
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-05-01T05:00:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/peru-april-cpi-rises-faster-than-expected-0-5-on-food-fuel.html
Peruvian  consumer prices  rose faster
than expected in April, keeping the annual inflation rate above
4 percent for a seventh straight month, amid higher food and
fuel costs.  Prices rose 0.5 percent from March and gained 4.1 percent
from the same month a year earlier, the national statistics
agency said in an e-mailed statement. Economists expected a 0.35
percent increase on the month and a 3.9 percent rise on the
year, according to the median estimate of analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Peru ’s central bank raised  reserve requirements  yesterday
after a pick-up in private investment boosted the outlook for
the $176 billion economy. The measures seek to brake the sol’s
2.3 percent advance this year while preventing an inflow of
dollars from accelerating credit growth and fueling inflationary
pressures, said  Roberto Flores , head of research at Inteligo
SAB.  “The central bank is concerned about inflation and wants
to prevent credit growth returning to levels of about 20
percent,” Flores said in a phone interview from Lima. “After
these measures, it’s less likely the central bank will have to
raise rates” on stronger domestic demand.  Peru’s economy expanded 7.2 percent in February, the
fastest pace in six months, as increased  government spending  in
response to slower global growth buoyed business sentiment.
Consumer prices climbed 0.77 in March, the most in eight months.  Annual lending growth slowed to 18 percent in February from
19 percent in January, the central bank said March 27.  Annual inflation will slow to about 3 percent by the end of
this year as food prices ease, central bank President Julio Velarde said April 27.  The government’s consumer-price index is based on a survey
of establishments conducted by the statistics agency in the Lima
Metropolitan area.  Food and drink prices rose 0.9 percent last month while
gasoline rose by an average 1.4 percent and bus fares climbed
9.8 percent, the statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in  Lima  at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  