-- Peugeot Set to Lose in French Vote as Jobs Trump Profit: Cars
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-05-02T10:46:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/peugeot-set-to-lose-in-french-vote-as-jobs-trump-profit-cars.html
Union representatives from a  PSA
Peugeot Citroen (UG)  factory hoped last month to meet with President
Nicolas Sarkozy’s campaign in the run-up to the first round of
elections. Then Sarkozy himself appeared.  “That was a surprise,” said Tania Sussest, a
representative for SIA, the biggest union at the factory about
20 kilometers northeast of Paris. “We thought we would talk
with the spokeswoman.”  The French president, who faces a close runoff against
Socialist challenger  Francois Hollande  on May 6, listened
carefully for about 45 minutes and then pledged to meet Peugeot
Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin to support the union’s
call to secure jobs. He fulfilled that promise two days later,
summoning the CEO to the Elysee Palace, Sarkozy’s official
residence.  French government interference, which helped Peugeot and
 Renault SA (RNO)  get through the financial crisis in 2009, now risks
pushing the two companies further behind  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  as job-
security pledges prevent them from shedding overcapacity. The
German carmaker generated more than double the combined revenues
of Peugeot and Renault in the first quarter. Peugeot stock is
the only decliner among  European automakers  this year.  Both Sarkozy and Hollande are keen to ensure that jobs
remain in  France , with the nation’s jobless rate stuck at a 12-
year high. The industry directly employs about 233,500 people,
according to the French statistics office. Indirectly, about 9
percent of France’s workforce is linked to autos, according to
the country’s carmakers’ association.  Shrinking Share  “There’s no big difference between the two candidates on
this issue,” said Carlos da Silva, an analyst at IHS
Automotive. “A lot has already been done during the financial
crisis to support the automobile sector. Now, given the general
outlook in  Europe , today’s urgencies are: shore up public
finances, shore up public finances, shore up public finances.”  That mantra isn’t helping to sell cars. Paris-based
Peugeot’s market share in the first quarter fell to 11.9 percent
from 13.3 percent, while Renault’s dropped to 8.2 percent from
9.9 percent, according to data from the European Automobile
Manufacturers’ Association.  Four-month registrations of light commercial vehicles and
passenger cars in France have dropped 16 percent, with both
Renault and Peugeot plunging by more than 20 percent in their
home market, the French carmakers’ association said in a
statement today.  Peugeot  shares  have dropped 14 percent this year, compared
with a 24 percent gain for VW. Renault shares have gained 28
percent, with the company’s exposure to Europe lessened by its
alliance with Nissan Motor Co.  Test Case  The Peugeot plant in Aulnay, which makes the 12,800-euro
($16,965) Citroen C3 compact and employs about 3,300  workers ,
may be a test case for the ability of French carmakers to
overcome political opposition to restructure. Varin said last
year that the factory has a “competitiveness problem,” calling
into question its future beyond 2014.  Hollande isn’t allowing Sarkozy to appear to be the sole
protector of French jobs, which is a major political issue with
2.9 million people out of work. The Socialist candidate moved to
thwart efforts to cut jobs after the election.  “I won’t allow a parade of firings that have been
postponed,” he said on France 2 television on April 25. “There
needs to be a sense of responsibility in executive suites at
companies. The day after the election, before irrevocable
decisions are taken, I will have to intervene.”  The activist approach of the French government puts auto
executives in a bind as they look to earn money needed to make
investments in research to fulfill regulatory demands to make
cleaner-running vehicles.  Peugeot’s Predicament  “Different countries are not encouraging at all the
restructuring of the industry,” Renault CEO  Carlos Ghosn  said
at an automotive forum in  New York  in early April. “As long as
you cannot restructure, you may survive, but you are weakening
all the time.”  Peugeot can’t afford that. Net debt last year more than
doubled to reach 3.4 billion euros at the end of 2011. To boost
finances, the automaker pledged to cut debt “significantly”
this year after posting a 7.3 percent drop in sales in the first
quarter to 14.3 billion euros. Money-raising efforts in 2012
included the sale of its 48-year-old headquarters building and
the issue of 1 billion euros in shares at a 42 percent discount.  Peugeot also agreed to a partnership with  General Motors
Co. (GM)  aimed at reducing purchasing costs and development spending
in an effort to revitalize European operations. As part of the
deal, GM bought 7 percent of the French carmaker.  None of those efforts will do much to overcome Peugeot’s
overcapacity problem. The manufacturer said its European
capacity utilization rate dropped to 83 percent in the first
quarter. Its full-year capacity utilization rate will be about
75 percent, according to IHS Automotive estimates.  Too Many Cars  “The situation will continue to be as bad for Peugeot”
after the elections, said Kristina Church, an analyst at
Barclays in  London . “It can’t go on like this. Whatever the
government, the question will be: Do you prefer a company that
survives or one that continues losing money?”  Renault is also battling overcapacity, with a European
factory utilization rate of 75 percent for 2012, according to
IHS Automotive estimates.  The company, which is based in the Paris suburb of
Boulogne-Billancourt, is more directly tied to the government
through the state’s 15 percent holding. As part of the
government’s activist approach, Ghosn had to pledge to make
building upscale vehicles in French factories a priority to get
approval for appointing a new chief operating officer.  “Today’s problem is about overcapacity,” union
representative Sussest said. “It has nothing to do with right-
wing or left-wing politics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  