-- Pfizer Pipeline Bet to Show If Drugmaker Has Blockbuster
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-05-01T20:07:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/pfizer-beats-estimates-as-company-readies-animal-health-spin-off.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Chief Executive Officer
 Ian Read  will find out in the next six months whether his plan
to shed units and focus on new drugs will pay off, with three
top products awaiting approval or key data.  U.S. Food and Drug Administration regulators will rule on
Pfizer’s blood thinner and arthritis pill by June and August,
respectively. The New York-based company plans to report data
from the last of three phases of clinical tests on bapineuzumab,
its experimental Alzheimer’s treatment, in the third quarter.  In the meantime, Read is buying back shares, arguing that
Pfizer’s best investment of cash is the drugmaker’s stock.
“There’s always a discontinuity between what the street sees
and puts in our share price for our pipeline, and what we can
see in our pipeline,” Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio
said today in a telephone interview.  Pfizer is trying to move past its dependence on Lipitor,
the best-selling cholesterol pill that lost marketing
exclusivity last November. Investors are awaiting more clarity
on how Read will divest the company’s animal health unit,
scheduled to be announced by July. The world’s biggest drugmaker
said last month it would sell its infant nutrition unit to
Vevey, Switzerland-based  Nestle SA (NESN)  for $11.9 billion.  Read also is reorganizing the company’s brand-name drug
business to separate it from what Pfizer calls the “established
products” line, including medicines that have gone off-patent
as well as  emerging markets  sales.  ‘Get a Feel’  “I’ve got to get a feel for how the two business units
look and feel and run,” Read said today in a telephone
interview. “I’ve got to get a feel for how the innovative core
strengthens its pipeline.”  Read said he hasn’t yet considered splitting brand-name and
established products into different companies. “It’s far too
premature to talk about the businesses being separate.”  Tony Butler , an analyst with  Barclays Capital  in  New York ,
said he doesn’t forecast an increase in revenue for Pfizer from
now until 2020.  “What you’re left with after the divestiture is a
pharmaceutical business that will be smaller, but has a number
of challenges from a growth perspective,” Butler said today in
an interview with Bloomberg TV. “New products drive revenue
change, and while Pfizer does have some, they’re not enough.”  Profit Falls  Earlier today, the New York-based company reported first-
quarter profit fell 19 percent after revenue from Lipitor
declined because of generic competition. The company trimmed its
2012 forecast after the sale of the nutritional unit.  Net income dropped to $1.79 billion, or 24 cents a share,
from $2.2 billion, or 28 cents, a year earlier. Earnings
excluding one-time items beat by 2 cents the 56-cent average of
19 analysts  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Pfizer declined less than 1 percent to $22.78 at the close
in New York. The shares have gained 8.6 percent in the past 12
months.  Pfizer plans to release data on its Alzheimer’s treatment,
bapineuzumab, in the third quarter of this year, Olivier Brandicourt, president of primary care, said today on a
conference call discussing the earnings.  Pfizer,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and  Elan Corp. (ELN)  are partners on
the Alzheimer’s drug. One of the two studies Pfizer is
conducting has finished, and another will be done in several
months, Brandicourt said. And on May 9, a panel advising the FDA
will make recommendations on tofacitinib, Pfizer’s experimental
pill to treat arthritis.  No Surprises  “There’s nothing they’ve done that’s been shocking or
concerning to us,” Geno Germano, Pfizer’s president of
specialty care, said of the regulators’ review. The FDA is
scheduled to rule on tofacitinib by Aug. 20, and the drug if
approved may be worth $1.5 billion to Pfizer this year, John Boris, an analyst for Citigroup, said in a note to clients.  Eliquis, a blood thinner developed with Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co., will get an FDA decision by the end of June. The
drugmakers will split sales from the pill, which  Tim Anderson ,
an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
estimates at $2.5 billion annually by 2015.  Pfizer said full-year profit will be $1.23 to $1.38 a
share, compared with a previous  forecast  for as much as $1.52.
The change was from sale of company’s the nutrition unit, the
drugmaker said.  Revenue Decline  Revenue fell to $15.4 billion from $16.5 billion a year
earlier, hurt by a 25 percent drop in sales from its
 pharmaceutical business  because of the loss of Lipitor’s U.S.
patent protection. The sales decline was made up for with a 7
percent cut to costs, excluding the impact of foreign exchange,
part of Read’s plan to make the company more efficient.  Pfizer also said that it took a $450 million charge after
agreeing to settle a lawsuit with  Brigham Young University  over
credit for development of the arthritis painkiller Celebrex.  Sales of Lipitor, still Pfizer’s best-selling drug, fell 42
percent to $1.4 billion. Those declines were led by a 71 percent
fall in the U.S., after the cholesterol pill lost patent
exclusivity in November.  Read said last week that Pfizer is deciding how it will
shed the animal health unit, which makes drugs for pets and
livestock and had sales of $4.18 billion last year. The
drugmaker is likely to divest the unit in a combined initial
public offering and share swap, he said, in which Pfizer would
sell some stock on the open market and exchange a portion of
Pfizer shares for stock in the new company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  