-- Pipeline ’Chess Master’ Cuts Third Deal Since 2011 for Su
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-05-01T20:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/pipeline-chess-master-cuts-third-deal-since-2011-for-su.html
Energy Transfer Partners LP (ETP)  Chief
Executive Officer Kelcy Warren flew to Philadelphia near the end
of February to discuss a pipeline project with his counterpart
at  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  Before the talks were over, he’d decided to buy
the whole company for $5.3 billion.  Warren’s agreement to purchase Sunoco is the third time
he’s swept up a rival pipeline operator in the past 13 months,
paying a total $12.6 billion in cash and shares. Each deal has
been calculated to expand Dallas-based  Energy Transfer ’s
footprint and business mix, transforming it from a regional
natural-gas pipeline operator to a national shipper of gas,
crude and refined fuels.  The transactions show Warren’s willingness to move quickly
to seize opportunities, said Chris Eades, a  fund manager  at  Legg
Mason Inc. (LM) ’s ClearBridge Advisors LLC in  New York .  “I don’t think there’s anyone out there who would doubt
his eagerness to do transformational deals, or his vision,”
Eades said yesterday in an interview.  Energy Transfer and its affiliate,  Regency Energy Partners
LP (RGP) , agreed to buy LDH Energy Asset Holding LLC for $1.93 billion
in March 2011. Last summer, Energy Transfer’s parent company,
Energy Transfer Equity LP, prevailed in a bidding war against
rival  Williams Cos. (WMB)  to buy Southern Union Co. for $5.4 billion.
That transaction closed in March.  “Southern Union had just barely finished, and they’re off
on another one,” Eades said.  Starting Out Regional  Warren, 56, who also serves as chairman, co-founded  Energy
Transfer (ETE)  in 1996 as a regional pipeline network based in Texas.
The company was able to sign profitable contracts with gas
shippers by taking advantage of price variations at different
delivery points in the state, said Bernard Colson, an analyst
with Global Hunter Securities LLC. Shares of the partnership
more than doubled to $64 from $27.18 between 2005 and 2007 as
new drilling and production techniques unlocked gas supplies in
the  Barnett Shale  in Texas, raising demand for shipping lines.  Ranked as the 546th richest person in the world in 2012,
according to Forbes, Warren has forged a different path as an
energy executive. He splits his time managing pipelines with a
music business, Music Road Records, he started in 2007 with two
partners in Austin,  Texas . In February, he donated an
undisclosed sum to have a park in  Dallas ’s central business
district named “Klyde Warren Park,” after his son, who was 9
at the time, according to the Dallas Morning News.  ‘Chess Master’  Warren’s diverse interests don’t detract from his penchant
for pipeline deals, said Ethan Bellamy, an analyst for Robert W.
Baird & Co., who calls the CEO a “chess master.”  “To be a dealmaker like he is, it helps to be amiable,
gregarious and personable,” said Bellamy, who has visited
Warren’s ranch near the Wolf Creek ski resort in  Colorado . “He
sees two or three moves ahead.” Bellamy rates Regency an
outperform, or a buy, and doesn’t rate Energy Transfer’s other
units or Sunoco.  Warren saw earlier than other pipeline operators that gas
would become less profitable for shippers because the price
differences that boosted profits were narrowing across the
country, Eades said.  The CEO said in a 2009 interview that Energy Transfer
needed a “transformational” deal to adapt.  Oil Profits  Energy Transfer’s purchase of Southern Union was a first
step toward a transformation, bringing gas pipelines in  Florida 
and the Midwest that gave the company a national reach. Energy
Transfer now owns about 45,000 miles (27,962 kilometers) of
pipelines, making it the biggest U.S. gas pipeline operator
until  Kinder Morgan  closes its acquisition of  El Paso Corp. (EP) 
later this year.  When the Sunoco transaction is finished, Energy Transfer
will get 30 percent of its revenue from oil, refined products
and other “heavier hydrocarbons,” the company said in a
statement. Shipping crude and other liquids will protect Energy
Transfer from the decline in gas profitability, Warren said in
an interview yesterday.  “We think that’s the answer for Energy Transfer,” he
said.  Sunoco, based in Philadelphia, had been shutting or selling
its refineries to focus on pipelines and storage under former
CEO Lynn Elsenhans. With a last operating refinery slated for
sale or shutdown, the company became more appealing to Warren,
who sought its 7,900 miles of pipelines and terminals stretching
from Texas to  New Jersey .  The two companies already had good chemistry, based on
discussions between staffers about other projects, Brian MacDonald, Sunoco’s current CEO, said in an interview.  Expanding the Deal  Warren originally sought MacDonald’s cooperation to convert
Energy Transfer’s Texoma gas pipeline to carry oil and connect
it to Sunoco’s Nederland storage terminal. Quickly, Warren
expanded the talks to other potential deals, MacDonald said.  “Those are meetings you always want to take,” he said.  Sunoco holders will receive about $50.13 a share,
consisting of $25 in cash and 0.5245 common unit of Energy
Transfer, according to a joint statement yesterday. Dallas-based
Energy Transfer is paying a 23 percent premium above the April
27 closing price for Sunoco.  The purchase includes 4,900 Sunoco-branded retail fueling
stations in the U.S. as well as its 32.4 percent share of  Sunoco
Logistics Partners LP (SXL) ’s common units, which Sunoco controls
through its general partner, according to the statement.  Sunoco’s retail business is “not core” for Energy
Transfer, Warren said. The retail units may be put into a
master-limited partnership, MacDonald said.  Moody’s Investors Service put Sunoco Logistics, the
company’s pipeline division, under review for a bond rating
downgrade, citing Energy Transfer’s high debt and its “very
substantial cash needs.”  Energy Transfer Partners rose 2.7 percent to $50.98 at the
close in New York. Energy Transfer Equity rose 1.9 percent to
$42.77 and Sunoco rose 0.9 percent to $49.72.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  