-- Plosser Says Fed Must Guard Against Long-Term Inflation
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-05-01T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/plosser-says-fed-must-guard-against-long-term-inflation.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia
President  Charles Plosser  said the central bank must be ready to
contain inflation in the long run as it maintains record
monetary stimulus to sustain the recovery.  “With the very accommodative stance of monetary policy
that has now been in place for more than three years, we must
guard against the medium- and longer-term risks of inflation,”
Plosser said in the text of remarks in  San Diego  today. He
repeated that the Fed may have to raise interest rates “well
before” the end of 2014 “in the absence of some shock that
derails the recovery.”  Fed policy makers last week upgraded their forecasts for
growth, unemployment and inflation as the economy continued to
show signs of improvement. Even so, the policy-setting Open
Market Committee reiterated that it expects to keep  interest
rates  low through at least late 2014 to push unemployment lower.  “Prospects for labor markets will continue to improve,
with job growth strengthening and the  unemployment rate  falling
gradually over time,” Plosser, 63, told the CFA Society of San
Diego today.  The Philadelphia Fed chief added that he expects the
 jobless rate  to decline to 7.8 percent by the end of this year
from 8.2 percent in March. The economy will probably expand by
about 3 percent in 2012 as well as 2013, he said.  Manufacturing expanded last month at the fastest pace in
almost a year, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s factory
index showed today.  Stocks rose after the manufacturing report, with the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gaining 1 percent to 1,411.40 as of
1:51 p.m. in  New York .  More Transparent  Plosser reiterated his call for the Fed to make its policy
making process more transparent, urging the central bank to
choose “a consistent set of variables” that would be used to
explain policy changes to investors. That would be a better way
to signal the likely course of action than using a specific
timeframe, he said.  That way, the public can “form more accurate judgments
about the likely course of policy -- reducing uncertainty and
promoting stability,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  