-- Poland’s Kazmierczak Undecided on Interest-Rate Increase
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-01T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/poland-s-kazmierczak-undecided-on-interest-rate-increase.html
Polish central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak, who’s sought to raise borrowing costs for almost a
year, is undecided on whether to back an interest-rate increase
this month as threats to the European Union’s biggest eastern
economy build.  While the Monetary Policy Council may discuss a quarter-
point increase after inflation topped the regulator’s target for
an 18th month,  Poland  faces external risks such as a euro-area
recession, decreased funding for local units of western European
banks and higher energy prices, according to Kazmierczak.  “The list of risks is not only long but the risks are also
intensifying, increasing the threat of a Polish economic
slowdown,” Kazmierczak said yesterday in an interview in
Warsaw. “It may be the first time that a week before a rate
meeting I haven’t decided what I’ll do.”  Policy makers will consider raising  rates  at their May 8-9
meeting, the central bank has said. The majority of the 10-
member MPC rejected an increase motion last month, seeking more
data to gauge the extent at which the economy is slowing. Since
then, figures have shown industry and retail-sales growth
decelerated, while inflation stayed above the 2.5 percent goal.  The zloty traded at 4.175 per euro late yesterday in
Warsaw, down from 4.169 on April 27 and paring its 2012 gains to
7.1 percent. The yield on the 10-year government bond was little
changed at 5.40 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Stubbornly High Inflation’  Tightening monetary policy wouldn’t curb corporate demand
for credit and would prevent second-round inflationary effects,
sending “a strong signal” on the council’s resolve to combat
inflation, said Kazmierczak, who opposes starting a cycle of
rate increases.  “Support for growth can’t really be an excuse for
tolerating such stubbornly high inflation,” he said.  Gross domestic product  will advance 2.5 percent in 2012,
less than last year’s 4.3 percent increase, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis damps foreign demand for Polish goods, the government
predicts. The euro region, which buys more than half the
nation’s exports, will contract 0.3 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  The central bank raised its benchmark rate in four steps by
a total of 1 percentage point to 4.5 percent in the first half
of 2011 to tame price growth. Kazmierczak was the only MPC
member to vote last July for another quarter-point increase.
Since then, the only motion to increase borrowing costs came in
April, with details of how council members voted due late May.  Following that decision, the bank said it may raise rates
as early as May. Governor  Marek Belka  warned on March 27 against
increasing interest rates too soon. The bank predicts price
growth will fall within its 1.5 percent-3.5 percent target range
at the end of next year.  “Pros balance cons, so I’ll be looking carefully at all
the arguments and making a decision at the very last moment,”
Kazmierczak said. “So will the other members of the council.
This meeting is crucial as the risk of a mistake is big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  