-- Polish GDP Risk Sparks Rate-Increase Doubt, Kazmierczak Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-05-02T09:11:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/poland-s-kazmierczak-unsure-on-rate-increase-with-growth-at-risk.html
Poland ’s risk of slowing economic
growth raises doubts over whether a rate increase is warranted,
said  Andrzej Kazmierczak , a central banker who’s sought higher
borrowing costs for almost a year.  While the Monetary Policy Council may discuss a quarter-
point increase after inflation topped the regulator’s target for
an 18th month, Poland faces risks such as a euro-area recession,
decreased funding for local units of western European banks and
higher energy prices, Kazmierczak said in an April 30 interview.  “The list of risks is not only long, but the risks are
also intensifying, increasing the threat of a Polish economic
slowdown,” he said in Warsaw. “It may be the first time that a
week before a rate meeting I haven’t decided what I’ll do.”  Investors are watching the Narodowy Bank Polski for signs
of the timing of a rate increase as inflation has remained above
3.5 percent, the upper end of policy makers’ tolerance range,
since 2011. The central bank said it will consider raising  rates 
at the May 8-9 policy meeting.  Policy makers will leave the benchmark  interest rate  at 4.5
percent next week, according to nine of 14 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Five predict a quarter-point increase to 4.75
percent.  ‘Difficult to Justify’  “It would be difficult for the council to justify a rate
hike in the current environment,”  Piotr Kalisz , an economist at
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  in Warsaw, wrote in an April 30 note. “We expect
interest rates to remain on hold until the end of 2012.”  The zloty traded at 4.1602 per euro at 11:07 a.m. in Warsaw
from 4.1533 yesterday. It gained 7.3 percent against Europe’s
common currency this year, the fourth most among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg behind the
Hungarian forint, the Colombian peso and the Russian ruble. The
yield on the 10-year government bond was little changed at 5.40
percent.  The majority of the 10-member MPC rejected an increase
motion last month, seeking more data to gauge the extent at
which the economy is slowing. Since then, figures have shown
industry and retail-sales growth decelerated. Manufacturing
contracted last month, with the purchasing manager’s index
falling to 49.2 from 50.1 in March,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  said in an
e-mail today, summarizing a survey by  Markit Economics .  ‘Strong Signal’  “New orders fell at the fastest rate for nearly three
years, while output was little-changed from March and purchases
of new inputs also contracted,” HSBC said in the e-mail, adding
that cost inflation pressure eased “slightly but remained
strong,” while employment in the sector rose “marginally.”  Tightening monetary policy wouldn’t curb corporate demand
for credit and would prevent second-round inflationary effects,
sending “a strong signal” on the council’s resolve to combat
inflation, said Kazmierczak, who opposes starting a cycle of
rate increases.  “Support for growth can’t really be an excuse for
tolerating such stubbornly high inflation,” he said.  Gross domestic product  will advance 2.5 percent in 2012,
less than last year’s 4.3 percent increase, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis damps foreign demand for Polish goods, the government
predicts. The euro region, which buys more than half the
nation’s exports, will contract 0.3 percent this year, the
International Monetary Fund forecasts.  Taming Inflation  The central bank raised its benchmark rate in four steps by
a total of one percentage point to 4.5 percent in the first half
of 2011 to tame price growth. Kazmierczak was the only MPC
member to vote last July for another quarter-point increase.
Since then, the only motion to raise borrowing costs came in
April, with details of how council members voted due late May.  After that decision, the bank said it may raise interest
rates as early as this month. Governor  Marek Belka  warned on
March 27 against increasing rates too soon. The bank said March
7 that prices may rise 2.2 percent to 3.6 percent in 2013.  “Pros balance cons, so I’ll be looking carefully at all
the arguments and making a decision at the very last moment,”
Kazmierczak said. “So will the other members of the council.
This meeting is crucial as the risk of a mistake is big.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  