-- Postal Jobs Leave Down Tobacco Road as Chicken Jobs Await
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-05-01T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/postal-jobs-leave-down-tobacco-road-as-chicken-jobs-await.html
Kinston, North Carolina, is near just
about nothing. The textile jobs went overseas years ago. Tobacco
fell victim to lawsuits and health concerns. The airport has a
runway two miles long and no commercial flights.  The Kinston Indians baseball team, pride of this town of
21,677 residents, left this year. Now the mail-processing plant
and its 93 full-time jobs might follow the minor-league
ballplayers to Raleigh -- leaving more room for the landlord of
part of its space, a homeless shelter.  The U.S.  Postal Service  plans to shut 223 of its 461 mail-
processing plants as it tries to stanch losses that Postmaster
General Patrick Donahoe predicts may reach $18.2 billion a year
by 2015. The service’s moratorium on closing plants lifts May
15, and it said it could save $3.1 million a year by closing up
in Kinston and moving its work 92 miles.  “Around here in these times we’re living in, you can’t
even give a house away,” said Perry Welch, 64, who has worked
at the plant since 1973, making him the longest-tenured
employee. If the plant closes, he said he’ll retire or try to
find a job at the adjacent post office.  Donahoe, who started with the service in a post office,
said plants like Kinston’s aren’t needed with first-class mail
volume 25 percent less than in 2006. The plant closings would
save about $2.5 billion a year, he said in February.  The service wants to stop promising overnight service for
letters. Without that self-imposed mandate, it may have fewer
processing plants that are farther apart. Plants on the list to
close are spread around the U.S. in rural and urban areas,
including facilities in  Los Angeles ,  Chicago  and  Staten Island ,
 New York .  ‘Tell Me’  The  U.S. Senate  passed a measure last week that would put
off closing processing plants and rural post offices. Donahoe is
encouraging the House to take up a bill that would make it
easier for him to close facilities.  Processing plant workers across the U.S. earn an average of
$53,159 a year, said Sue Brennan, a spokeswoman for the
Washington-based service. Average wages in the region including
Kinston are $41,949, according to North Carolina’s Eastern
Region, an economic development agency.  The Kinston workers, protected by a union agreement, may
choose to commute to Raleigh or, if they’re old enough, to
retire. While some plant workers live in Kinston, other
employees already commute as much as an hour -- through little
traffic -- to and from work.  Naomi Fairfax, 32, has worked at the plant for 6 1/2 years,
commuting about 45 miles (72 kilometers) from Jacksonville,
 North Carolina . She said she’s “resigned to it closing. I wish
they would tell me because I’ve got children.  ‘‘People have to sell their houses if they’re going to
relocate,” she said. “And what if you move and have to move
again? What if you go to Raleigh and they say ‘go to
 Charlotte ?’”  Global TransPark  Boarded-up storefronts occupy parts of Queen Street,
Kinston’s main drag, while Christopher’s Cafe and a handful of
other eateries bustle during breakfast and lunch. The Chamber of
Commerce occupies a stone-columned building that includes
vestiges of what it once was -- the main post office.  Kinston’s  unemployment  rate in February was 10.9 percent,
according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . That’s down
from a high of 13 percent two years earlier. Unemployment has
stayed at more than 10 percent since January 2009.  The region, starting about 20 years ago, pinned its
economic development hopes on developing a giant cargo hub on
the grounds of its airport. The state-backed Global TransPark
has a runway capable of landing the world’s biggest planes.  Airfield of Dreams  Local business development executives traveled last year to
the  Paris Air Show  and to the Farnborough International Air Show
the year before to try to drum up business. They courted  FedEx
Corp. (FDX)  before it chose to build a facility in the Greensboro
area, about 150 miles away.  Spirit Aerosystems Holdings Inc. (SPR) , a supplier to Airbus SAS
and Gulfstream Aerospace Corp., is the biggest tenant at
TransPark with 270 employees.  Global TransPark was a “build it and they will come. And
they just weren’t coming for two decades,” said Kinston Mayor
BJ Murphy.  “At one time, Kinston was one of the foremost economic
areas east of Raleigh,” Murphy, 31, said over breakfast at
Christopher’s, where he greeted entering patrons by name or as
sir or ma’am.  “But tobacco and textiles left and that really hurt us,”
he said.  Homeless Neighbors  The postal processing plant is two blocks from Queen
Street, in a building it shares with Friends of the Homeless.
Rent paid by the service provides about a third of the $71,000
annual budget for the 40-bed shelter and soup kitchen.  “That would cut deep into us providing the services we
provide,” Jasper Newborn, 67, the shelter director, said during
a mid-day lull.  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM)  is hiring manual labor for a new
chicken processing plant at the edge of town. Murphy is excited
about the new jobs, which Newborn knows about because his
clients would be happy to land them, at $8 to $9 an hour.  They’re not jobs postal workers are likely to want, said
Jim Kleckley, a professor at East Carolina University in nearby
Greenville who studies the region’s economy.  Spirit announced last year it would add as many as 200 jobs
over five years, though they’re expected to be skilled
manufacturing jobs that would require specialized training.  “Jobs change over time,” Kleckley said. “It’s going to
be that everywhere. But one of the difficulties we have in
eastern North Carolina is it’s more difficult to get new jobs to
replace the jobs lost.”  228-Mile Commute  Inside the postal plant, 40 workers stand operating hulking
machines from 10 p.m. until around 6 a.m., seven nights a week,
sorting mail for zip codes starting with 285. It’s an area
stretching from beach towns Morehead City and Atlantic Beach
through salt marshes and collard shacks to the one-time tobacco
fields closer to Kinston.  On a busy night, a million pieces of letter mail may move
through the plant’s machines. On an average night, 400,000 to
500,000 pieces do. Trucks back up to 14 loading docks to bring
the sorted mail to post offices for delivery that day.  Will Smith , 53, and many of the other workers have been
told for the past five years that their facility might close.
Should that happen, Smith faces a 228-mile round trip commute
between Raleigh and his home in New Bern, North Carolina.  Big Picture  “I really, really wouldn’t want to move or commute to
Raleigh,” said Smith, the American Postal Workers Union local
president, shaking his head. He said he hasn’t decided for sure.  Keisiva Ward, 32, started working at the plant five years
ago, about the time mail volume and postal finances started
their downward spiral.  “You never thought working for the Postal Service you’d go
through this,” she said in a parking lot across from her
workplace. “You thought you had a foundation.”  The plant’s temporary manager said it can be hard for the
employees to see the scope of the Postal Service’s distress.  “To some degree, they don’t see the big picture,” Brenda
Edwards said from her office. “It’s their whole world. And this
area here is so depressed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 