-- Progressive Sues Hartford, State Farm Over Auto Coverage
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-05-01T19:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/progressive-sues-hartford-state-farm-over-auto-coverage.html
Progressive Corp. (PGR)  filed patent-
infringement lawsuits against State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. and  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG)  over
auto coverage based on vehicle usage.  The insurers are infringing three patents that related to
vehicle monitoring and ways the monitoring is used to determine
insurance rates, Progressive contends. Both complaints were
filed yesterday in federal court in Cleveland.  The complaints target Hartford’s “TrueLane” and State
Farm’s “Drive Safe & Save” initiatives. The programs get data
regarding location, mileage, speed and other information from an
onboard computer to calculate a “safety score” on the driver.  “Progressive is suffering from the effects” of the
infringement by the two companies, the Mayfield Village, Ohio-
based company said in the complaints.  State Farm, based in Bloomington,  Illinois , is the biggest
U.S. home and car insurer. The company developed its program
“to provide the opportunity for additional discounts to our
customers and reinforce and reward their safe driving
habits,”said  Dick Luedke , a spokesman for State Farm. “We have
just learned of this complaint. We will look into the issue and
provide our response to the court.”  Hartford, based in the  Connecticut  municipality of the same
name, offers its TrueLane in Connecticut, Minnesota, Missouri,
Oregon, and West Virginia, said Thomas Hambrick, a spokesman for
Hartford.  Reducing Premiums  In TrueLane, “we offer auto policyholders the opportunity
to reduce premiums by demonstrating safe driving habits through
the installation of a telematics device in their vehicle,” he
said in a statement. “The Hartford denies Progressive’s
allegations and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously.”  Progressive, the fourth-biggest U.S. auto insurer, has  sued 
 Allstate Corp. (ALL)  and Liberty Mutual Holding Co. over similar
programs. It settled with Allstate, while the case against
Liberty Mutual is scheduled for a mediation conference May 3,
according to the court docket in that case.  The cases are Progressive Casualty Insurance Co. v.
Hartford Fire Insurance Co., 12cv1070, and Progressive Casualty
Insurance Co. v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co.,
12cv1068, both U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
 Ohio  (Cleveland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  