-- Prologis First-Quarter FFO Rises to $262 Million on Merger
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-05-01T12:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/prologis-first-quarter-ffo-rises-to-262-million-after-merger.html
Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s largest
warehouse owner, reported first-quarter funds from operations of
$262 million as revenue increased after the company’s  merger 
with AMB Property Corp.  FFO, which gauges a property owner’s ability to generate
cash, was 56 cents a share in the third quarter of results since
the merger, San Francisco-based Prologis said today in a
statement. The year-earlier figure, which reflects the legacy
company, was $62.1 million, or 24 cents a share.  Prologis and AMB combined in June in the biggest  merger  of
U.S. real estate investment trusts. The company is disposing of
properties in smaller markets and areas less important to global
trade while increasing its fund management business. In the
first quarter, Prologis had about $762 million in proceeds on
$994 million of building and land sales and fund contributions.  “Asset sales are critical to Prologis’ strategic
objectives of culling the portfolio, restructuring broken joint-
venture funds and de-leveraging,”  John Stewart  and Eric
Frankel, analysts at Green Street Advisors Inc. in  Newport
Beach ,  California , wrote on April 23. “The recent uptick in
large portfolio transactions bodes well, but Prologis’
aggressive disposition program entails significant execution
risk and will represent a drag on near-term earnings growth.”  Core FFO  First-quarter FFO included gains on real estate
transactions and other items. Excluding those items, so-called
core FFO was $184.8 million, or 40 cents a share, up from $74.4
million, or 29 cents, a year earlier. The average of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg  survey  was for FFO of 40 cents a share.  Prologis affirmed its forecast for full-year core FFO of
$1.60 to $1.70 a share.  Occupancy in the first quarter rose to 92.3 percent from
92.2 percent in the previous three months. The company leased
30.9 million square feet (2.9 million square meters) in its
operating and development portfolios.  The results were released before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Prologis has fallen 1.8 percent in the past 12 months,
compared with a 6 percent gain in the Bloomberg REIT  Index. (BBREIT)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  