-- Providence Debt Cut as Brown Agrees to Higher Payments
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-05-01T20:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/providence-eying-bankruptcy-cuts-pensions-in-rhode-island.html
Providence, Rhode Island’s capital,
had its rating cut by  Standard & Poor’s  even as it seeks to
repair its finances by overhauling an ailing pension system and
extracting bigger voluntary payments from  Brown University .  S&P lowered Providence’s credit grade one step to BBB, two
levels above junk-bond status, citing “ongoing fiscal
pressure” for retaining a negative outlook on the debt, meaning
it could be cut again. The downgrade follows steps by Mayor
Angel Taveras and the City Council to extract more cash from
nonprofit organizations and lower pension costs.  “Though city management has taken numerous steps to
enhance revenue and drastically cut or avoid expenditures in an
attempt to restore structural balance, the city’s budget remains
structurally imbalanced,” Matthew Stephan, an S&P analyst in
 Boston , said today in a report. He said another rating cut may
be made if S&P believes Providence will enter bankruptcy.  Brown, the Ivy League school started in 1764, said it will
boost the amount of payments in lieu of taxes to the city,
 agreeing  to contribute $31.5 million over 11 years. The
university already contributes $4 million a year, including $2.9
million in levies on property it has bought or leased since
2003, President  Ruth Simmons  said in a letter released today.  Agreeing on Payments  The university was the third nonprofit group in the city to
agree in recent months to either begin making voluntary payments
or increase the amount, according to the mayor’s office. The
school began making the payments in lieu of taxes in 2003.  “Brown is deeply concerned about Providence’s financial
situation and is committed to supporting efforts to enhance the
city,” said Simmons, who is stepping down as president this
year. She said the school received a pledge from Taveras and
Governor Lincoln Chafee, an independent, to support its effort
to expand in the city, which includes acquiring streets around
the campus and leasing parking spaces.  Rhode Island  and its cities have coped with lingering
effects of the recession while the cost of benefits promised to
public workers has consumed a growing portion of annual budgets.
 Central Falls , the state’s smallest city, entered Chapter 9
bankruptcy in August. Elected in 2010, Taveras said in February
that Providence, the state’s most-populous municipality, was on
the brink of insolvency.  Pension Overhaul  The council passed an overhaul of Providence’s $422.8
million pension yesterday, cutting costs by almost $19 million a
year largely by suspending cost-of-living increases to retirees
that are as high as 6 percent for some former public-safety
workers. While Taveras  signed  the measure, Paul Doughty, head of
the local firefighters union, pledged a court challenge.  “It’s a huge mistake,” Doughty said. “If they lose this
in court, almost certainly they will end up in bankruptcy.
They’re playing a huge game of chicken.”  The city of about 178,000 is banking on the cuts to help
balance its fiscal 2013 budget. Ending the automatic increases
will save $15.6 million, according to a council report.  “It is uncertain at this time whether such savings will be
realized,” S&P’s Stephan said, citing the “conjectural”
nature of anticipated cost reductions.  Automatic pension increases may resume once the retirement
fund has enough assets to cover 70 percent of promised benefits,
according to the overhaul measure. Testimony at council hearings
on proposed changes put the current level at 34 percent.  Pension Caps  Another change caps pensions at 1.5-times the state’s
median household income, which averaged about $54,900 over five
years through 2010. No savings estimate from that move was
provided in the report. The city pension serves 3,000 retirees
and another 2,000 current workers, including police and
firefighters, said  David Ortiz , a Taveras spokesman.  The average city pensioner gets about $25,000 a year,
Doughty said. The mayor said that a former fire chief who earned
$63,510 the year he retired collects $196,813 annually now and
that there are at least 25 retirees getting more than $100,000.  The overhaul will reduce Providence’s unfunded liability of
about $900 million by more than $240 million, according to the
council report. The larger figure represents the difference
between what the city has set aside to pay for promises to
retirees and the estimated cost of those future benefits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 