-- Trafigura Following Raffles Into Heart of Asian Trade
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-05-02T20:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/trafigura-following-raffles-into-heart-of-asian-trade.html
Staff at Trafigura Group, the third-
largest independent oil trader, are getting a real-time snapshot
of demand in the top crude and metals-consuming region as they
look from their new office onto lines of ships off  Singapore .  The Amsterdam-based company moved 30 people in the past
year to Singapore to trade metals and bulk commodities. Jonathan Pegler, the oil director for the Asia-Pacific region, came from
Geneva in February and is already adding staff to the offices on
the 28th and 29th floors of a downtown skyscraper that can seat
250. The group had nine people in the state in 2000.  Trafigura joins companies from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  to Cargill
Inc. and Anglo American Plc in adding to the more than 10,000
jobs already linked to offshore trade in commodities and energy
in Singapore in 2010, a 40 percent increase from 2006, according
to government data. More than 140,000 ships call every year at
the port, which straddles trade routes to and from China and
India, home to 36 percent of the global population.  “My traders have a new hobby of spotting their tankers and
bulk carriers, checking how loaded they are,” said Pegler,
standing next to the floor-to-ceiling windows with views over
the largest refueling hub for the global fleet of merchant
vessels, which carries about 90 percent of world trade. “The
markets over here are growing and presenting many new ideas.”  Agricultural Commodities  BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, plans to transfer
as many as 90 jobs to Singapore. Cargill, the largest closely
held U.S. company, expanded its staff by about 43 percent in
five years.  Anglo American (AAL) , the top platinum producer, chose the
country as one of its two main marketing hubs along with  London .
Mercuria Energy Trading SA will base the head of its global
agricultural business in the city.  Asia ’s economic expansion drove a more than quadrupling in
 oil prices  and fivefold gain in copper over the past decade. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials rose 5.2
percent this year, lagging behind the 9.6 percent advance in the
MSCI All-Country World Index of equities. Treasuries were little
changed, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Singapore, about one-quarter the size of Rhode Island, has
a population of 5.2 million people and sits on the equator
between China and  India  which have a combined population of
about 2.5 billion. The two nations generated a combined gross
domestic product of about $7.7 trillion in 2010, up from $2
trillion in 2002, World Bank data show.  Transparency International  Offshore trading in energy, metals and agriculture with
international partners was valued at a record $1.02 trillion
last year, 46 percent more than in 2010, says International
Enterprise Singapore, a government agency. Supertankers carrying
2 million barrels of oil to bulkers able to transport 400,000
tons of  iron ore  are among ships that visit its port and
terminals. Maritime and Port Authority data show vessels arrive
or leave the country every three to four minutes.  Singapore, led by Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, the son
of Lee Kuan Yew, has transformed itself into an Asian financial
and commodities hub in the past half century. Gross domestic
product has climbed 40-fold to S$299.6 billion ($242.3 billion)
at 2005 market prices, government data show.  The nation was ranked fifth best after  New Zealand ,
Denmark, Finland and  Sweden  in Transparency International’s
Corruption Perceptions Index, compared with 75 for  China  and 95
for India. It came in third for protecting intellectual property
rights in a survey by the  World Economic Forum  and its broadband
network reaches 99 percent of the population. Ninety-six percent
of those over 15 are literate, the government says.  Slowing Growth  Slowing growth across Asia presents one of the biggest
threats to Singapore’s expansion. China’s first-quarter GDP rose
8.1 percent, the slowest pace in almost three years, and Premier
Wen Jiabao set an annual target of 7.5 percent in March, the
least since 2004.  India’s economy  gained 6.1 percent in the
fourth quarter, from 8.3 percent a year earlier, while GDP in
Singapore will probably rise 1 percent to 3 percent this year,
down from 4.9 percent growth in 2011, the central bank.  Companies may struggle to find enough local people because
trading of commodities such as liquefied natural gas only began
recently, said Damian Stewart, the director for Asia at London-
based Human Capital Search. The recruiter moved Stewart to
Singapore in 2008. Its clients have included BP Plc, Trafigura
and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL) , according to its website.  Trade Routes  The hiring and transfer spree among companies trading
physical commodities isn’t mirrored at larger banks, according
to Tyler Jackson, an  executive director  at New York-based
recruiter Options Group. Banks are concerned about increasing
competition, a challenging trading environment and the potential
impact of tighter regulations from the U.S. and U.K., he said.  “In the past year plus, we have seen a lot of the big
investment banks ceasing from expansion in Singapore or in
certain cases reducing headcount,” Jackson said. “On the other
hand, there are a few smaller emerging-markets or local banks
expanding and adding headcount.”  The new arrivals are the latest in a procession that
stretches back to the modern port’s founding by Britain’s Sir
Thomas  Stamford  Raffles in 1819. While Singapore is bereft of
natural resources, it sits on trade routes including the Strait
of Malacca, a transit point for about 25 percent of the world’s
seaborne oil. The city is Asia’s biggest oil-trading hub,
handling everything from over-the-counter crude oil and fuel oil
to futures in copper, iron ore and pepper.  Bank of China  BHP’s plan to transfer 90 jobs to Singapore will take the
total to about 400, said Kelly Quirke, a spokeswoman. The
Melbourne-based company has announced plans to shut its office
in The Hague and relocate coal and freight units to Singapore.
Trafigura will move more senior energy and metals traders to the
city, said Pegler.  Cargill expanded its Singapore staff to about 500 in the
five years to 2011, according to Beate Bieniek, a spokeswoman.
The Minneapolis-based commodities trader calls the country its
regional hub and its global headquarters for metals. The company
also handles grains, oilseeds, energy and freight from
Singapore.  The London Metal Exchange opened its first Asian office in
Singapore in 2010 and started trading smaller contracts last
year in partnership with  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  The world’s
biggest metals bourse approved a  Bank of China  Ltd. unit last
month as its first Chinese company member and said it may offer
the option of clearing and settling trades in  yuan .  Anglo American has chosen Singapore as a marketing hub for
everything it produces apart from diamonds, according to James Wyatt-Tilby, a spokesman. The London-based company produces iron
ore, coal, copper, nickel, diamonds and platinum group metals.  Mercuria Hiring  Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s largest lender, has a
team of 12 people in Singapore for bulk commodity trading. Eight
of them were added in the past year, said Jim Coupland, the
global head of industrial metals at the Johannesburg-based bank.  Mercuria, an energy-trading company seeking to expand into
metals and farm commodities, hired Andrew Perkins from Morgan
Stanley to head its new global agriculture team from Singapore,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter. The
Geneva-based company has also recruited oil-product traders in
the city, Chief Executive Officer Marco Dunand said April 24.  About 80 percent of growth in oil demand from 2010 to 2035
will come from developing Asian nations, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries estimates.  “You probably want to be located here right now,
especially if you want to position yourself for both China and
India,” said Dominic Schnider, the Singapore-based global head
of commodity research at UBS AG’s wealth-management unit.
“That’s the region where growth is coming from.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  