-- Ranieri Says U.S. Should End Deduction on Second Homes
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-01T21:52:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ranieri-says-u-s-should-end-deduction-on-second-homes.html
The mortgage-interest deduction for
vacation homes and other non-primary residences should be
eliminated as part of a U.S. housing-finance overhaul, said
Lewis Ranieri, a pioneer of loan securitization.  “We don’t need a deduction on second homes,” the chairman
and founding partner of New York-based Ranieri Partners
Management LLC said today during a panel discussion at the
Milken Institute Global Conference in  Beverly Hills ,  California .
The allowance is “nice but not necessary,” and limits on
primary-residence deductions should be considered too, he said.  The provision that allows taxpayers to deduct mortgage
interest on second  homes  will be altered eventually, U.S.
Senator  Bob Corker , a Republican from  Tennessee , said during the
discussion. While President Barack Obama’s administration and
Congress have publicly found “no common ground” on most issues
regarding housing-finance reform, there is agreement on
eliminating the tax break for non-primary residences, he said.  “There’s no question that it’s going to change,” said
Corker, a member of the Senate’s banking committee who is
running for re-election in November.  Ranieri, who packaged home loans into securities at Salomon
Brothers, making it Wall Street’s most profitable firm in the
1980s, also said that  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac  must be
restructured to give private investors the confidence to re-
enter the mortgage market. The agencies, seized by the federal
government in 2008 after the housing collapse, own or guarantee
60 percent of the nation’s home loans.  ‘Shelter, Not ATMs’  Mortgage securitization, blamed for helping inflate the
U.S. housing bubble, initially allowed more Americans to buy
homes and use them as “as shelter, not ATMs,” Ranieri said.
The mortgage-bond market worked “reasonably well” for more
than 30 years before being undone by lax underwriting standards
during the run-up in residential-property values, he said.  U.S. home prices probably bottomed in the third quarter of
2011 except in some “bubble markets,” according to Ranieri.  He also said that the Obama administration’s retooled  Home
Affordable Refinance Program , known as HARP II, is “building up
a head of steam” after the plan initially failed to help
millions of property owners in need of assistance, Ranieri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  