-- Wolin Says Push to Roll Back Dodd-Frank Will Fail
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-05-01T21:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/treasury-s-wolin-says-efforts-to-roll-back-dodd-frank-will-fail.html
U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary Neal Wolin said lawmakers and lobbyists opposed to the Dodd-Frank Act
will fail in efforts to roll back parts of the regulatory
overhaul enacted in response to the 2008 credit crisis.  “The whole thing will be implemented before we are done,”
Wolin, who was appointed by President  Barack Obama  in 2009, said
today in a panel discussion at the Bloomberg Link Washington
Summit. “There are efforts in Congress to roll back and the
like and I don’t think they are likely to succeed.”  U.S. regulators including the Federal Reserve and
Securities and Exchange Commission are nearly two years into
implementing Dodd-Frank, which was signed into law by Obama in
2010. Regulators still have dozens of measures to complete,
including the Volcker rule that will ban proprietary trading at
banks such as  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Wolin and other Obama administration officials are
defending Dodd-Frank against attacks by congressional
Republicans, who stepped up efforts to overturn portions of the
law after their party took control of the House last year. The
House Financial Services Committee last month voted to repeal
the law’s resolution authority, which gives the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. power to liquidate systemically important
companies whose collapse could imperil the broader economy.  Uncertainty and Barriers  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican who
serves on the House panel, said changes are needed because Dodd-
Frank reaches too far into the markets, with regulators creating
uncertainty and barriers as they craft rules.  “The pendulum has gone way too far, and this is typical of
Washington in these times,” Garrett, who leads the Financial
Services capital markets subcommittee, said today.  Former SEC Chairman  Arthur Levitt , a senior adviser to
Goldman Sachs, said that while changes to the regulatory
structure put the U.S. in a better position, the financial
system is “by no means out of the woods.”  “If I had to put a number on how much of Dodd-Frank will
see the light of day, I’d say it will be south of 50 percent,”
said Levitt, who is a member of the board of Bloomberg LP, the
parent company of Bloomberg News. Levitt faulted Republican
lawmakers over their efforts to cut funding to regulators and
make changes to the law.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  