-- Reckitt Benckiser Confident of Goals as Sales Meet Estimates
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-05-01T16:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/reckitt-benckiser-confident-of-goals-as-revenue-meets-estimates.html
Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc, (RB/)  the maker
of Dettol handwash, reported first-quarter revenue growth that
met analysts’  estimates  and said it’s confident of meeting full-
year goals amid gains in emerging markets.  Non-pharmaceutical sales rose 4 percent, excluding
acquisitions, disposals and currency moves, the Slough, England-
based company said today in a statement. The average estimate of
18 analysts surveyed by the company was for a 3.8 percent gain.
Total sales increased 3 percent to 2.36 billion pounds ($3.8
billion), compared with the 2.35 billion-pound average estimate.  Reckitt Benckiser, faced with weakening economies in the
U.K. and across  Europe , has merged North America and Europe into
a single reporting entity and split its emerging-markets unit
into two groups. Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Kapoor plans to
boost  sales  from  emerging markets  to half of revenue by 2016.  Reckitt Benckiser  rose  0.9 percent to 3,620 pence at the
close of London trading after earlier climbing as much as
2.8 percent, the steepest intraday gain in almost three months.  “The only surprise to me is the share price reaction,”
 Martin Deboo , an analyst at Investec, said by telephone.
“Otherwise, it was entirely in line with consensus.”  The maker of Lysol and Cillit Bang cleaners reiterated its
February forecast for growth of 3 percent to 4 percent in non-
pharmaceutical revenue this year at constant exchange rates, and
unchanged operating profit margins.  Product Innovation  First-quarter sales growth was driven by “continued
excellent performance” in emerging markets and product
innovations such as Veet Easy Wax Roll-On and the Lysol No-Touch
Kitchen System, Kapoor said in the statement.  Like-for-like revenue fell 1 percent in Europe and  North
America , which make up 55 percent of revenue excluding food and
pharmaceuticals, hurt by a “poor” flu season in the U.S.,
which hampered sales of the Mucinex cough and cold remedy.
Analysts had estimated a 0.9 percent drop.  Procter & Gamble (PG) , the world’s largest consumer-products
company, cut its full-year profit forecast last week amid
slowing sales shipments in some developed markets. In contrast,
Unilever, the maker of Dove soap, said first-quarter underlying
sales rose 8.4 percent, boosted by higher prices and better-
than-expected sales in Europe and North America.  Emerging Markets  Reckitt Benckiser’s sales increased 11 percent in  Latin
America  and  Asia , fueled by brands such as Nurofen painkillers,
Airwick air fresheners, and Finish dishwashing detergents.
Revenue rose 9 percent in  Russia , the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
helped by consumers buying more Durex condoms and new products
such as Dettol Daily Care.  Kapoor plans to boost sales from emerging markets from 42
percent at the beginning of this year, by introducing existing
brands to faster-growing regions and shifting more senior
managers,  capital spending , and marketing to developing regions.  Revenue at the pharmaceuticals division, which Reckitt
Benckiser considers a “non-core” activity, rose 6 percent. The
company has said it could lose as much as 90 percent of U.S.
tablet revenue as generic drugs enter the market to compete with
its Suboxone heroin-dependency treatment. Analysts at Jefferies
International and Bernstein & Co. have said that a generic
version of Suboxone could emerge as soon as July.  Reckitt Benckiser said a film-strip version of Suboxone
that dissolves under the tongue has now captured a 53 percent
volume share in the U.S., up from 48 percent at the end of 2011.  Revenue from the company’s food business, which includes
Frank’s RedHot sauce and is also no longer a core unit, rose 6
percent in the quarter.  To lift sales, Reckitt Benckiser is investing an additional
100 million pounds in main brands such as Harpic cleaners, and
shifting more of its marketing spending from television ads to
digital media and consumer education campaigns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  