-- Four Fed Policy Makers See No Need to Ease With Economy
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-05-02T15:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/three-fed-policy-makers-see-no-need-to-ease-with-economy.html
The odds of more Federal Reserve
stimulus diminished yesterday as four central bankers said it
probably won’t be needed and an unexpected acceleration in U.S.
manufacturing provided fresh evidence of economic strength.  John Williams , president of the San Francisco Fed, joined
his counterparts from Richmond, Philadelphia and Atlanta in
casting doubt on the need for additional purchases of bonds to
push down longer-term interest rates. Three of them are voting
members of the rate-setting  Federal Open Market Committee .  Thresholds for further action “would be if we see economic
growth slow to the point where we’re not seeing further progress
in bringing the  unemployment rate  down,” Williams said, or if
inflation dropped “significantly” below the Fed’s 2 percent
goal. Those aren’t “the circumstances I currently expect,”
Williams said at a conference in Beverly Hills,  California .  The FOMC left policy unchanged after its April 24-25
meeting, and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  signaled that further
easing is unlikely unless the economy unexpectedly deteriorates.
Bernanke said it would be “reckless” to pursue policies that
would drive up inflation when it’s already near the Fed’s
target, while noting he’s “prepared to do more” should
conditions worsen.  Richmond President  Jeffrey Lacker , who has dissented three
times this year against the panel’s statement that borrowing
costs are likely to stay “exceptionally low” at least through
late 2014, repeated his objections yesterday.  ‘Not Gangbusters’  “For us to provide more monetary stimulus at this point
would likely raise inflation risks and not likely do much for
growth,” Lacker said in an interview at the Bloomberg
Washington Summit hosted by  Bloomberg Link . While “it’s not a
gangbusters recovery by historical standards,” growth will
accelerate, he said.  Lacker said the central bank needs to be ready to raise the
benchmark federal funds rate even if joblessness exceeds 7
percent, and that an interest-rate increase is likely in mid-
2013.  Unemployment “could well be above 7 percent, and I think
we have to prepare for that,” Lacker said. “I think it’s a
misconception to think we have to get unemployment all the way
down to five or some number like that before we raise rates.”  Williams, who votes on policy this year, said at the 2012
Milken Institute Global Conference that he expects the economy
to grow at a “moderate” pace of 2.5 percent and “pick up
somewhat” during the next few years. In March, Williams said
the Fed “may need to do more” and had to “keep applying
monetary policy stimulus vigorously.”  Jobs Data  U.S. stocks retreated today, after the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  advanced to the highest level since December 2007, as
industry data showed that companies added fewer jobs last month
than economists projected.  The Dow fell 0.4 percent to 13,227.93 at 11:27 a.m. in  New
York . Yesterday’s advance was fueled by a report from the
 Institute for Supply Management  showing U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly expanded in April at the fastest pace in 10 months.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell two basis
points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.92 percent.  A Labor Department report on May 4 is likely to show
employers added 160,000 jobs to payrolls in April and the
unemployment rate stayed at 8.2 percent, according to the median
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey of economists. In March,
employers added 120,000 jobs, the fewest since October.  Growth Slows  Economic growth slowed to a 2.2 percent annual pace in the
first quarter from 3 percent in the final three months of 2011,
according to a Commerce Department report last week. While
 consumer spending  increased by the most in more than a year,
growth was restrained by a diminished contribution from business
inventories and a drop in  government spending .  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser , who doesn’t
vote on policy this year, also warned of inflation risks
yesterday, saying the central bank must be ready to contain
accelerating prices.  “With the very accommodative stance of monetary policy
that has now been in place for more than three years, we must
guard against the medium- and longer-term risks of inflation,”
Plosser said in  San Diego . He repeated that the Fed may have to
raise  interest rates  “well before” the end of 2014 “in the
absence of some shock that derails the recovery.”  Lockhart Skeptical  Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart , another voting member of the
FOMC, repeated that he’s skeptical of the benefits of further
bond purchases. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of  assets  in two
rounds after cutting its benchmark rate close to zero in
December 2008.  Not all Fed officials are in agreement that the central
bank should only maintain its current policy stance.  Chicago’s  Charles Evans , who doesn’t vote this year, said
he doesn’t “see the need” to remove “strong accommodation”
until the economy expands at a 4 percent rate for some years.  “I think we’re going to need more of this,” Evans said,
also speaking in  Beverly Hills .  The Fed hasn’t done enough to describe its tolerance for
inflation, and it should be willing to let inflation rise to 3
percent as its 2 percent target is “not a ceiling,” Evans
said. “We do allow the possibility” that inflation will top 2
percent, Evans said. “We want a vibrant economy.”  Lockhart, who spoke on the same panel as Evans, disagreed
with allowing inflation to rise that high. Prices accelerating
at a 3 percent rate or faster make him “pretty nervous,”
Lockhart said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  