-- Reserve Bank of Australia Comments on Rate Decision
-- B y   I a i n   W i l s o n
-- 2012-05-01T04:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/reserve-bank-of-australia-comments-on-rate-decision-1-.html
The following is a reformatted version
of a statement by  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  Governor  Glenn Stevens  after he and his board unexpectedly cut the nation’s
benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point to 3.75
percent today.  “At its meeting today, the Board decided to lower the cash
rate by 50 basis points to 3.75 per cent, effective 2 May 2012.
This decision is based on information received over the past few
months that suggests that economic conditions have been somewhat
weaker than expected, while inflation has moderated.  Growth in the world economy slowed in the second half of
2011, and is likely to continue at a below-trend pace this year.
A deep downturn is not occurring at this stage, however, and in
fact some forecasters have recently revised upwards their global
growth outlook. Growth in  China  has moderated, as was intended,
and is likely to remain at a more measured and sustainable pace
in the future. Conditions in other parts of  Asia  softened in
2011, partly due to natural disasters, but have recently shown
some tentative signs of improving. Among the major countries,
conditions in Europe remain very difficult, while the  United
States  continues to grow at a moderate pace. Commodity prices
have been little changed, at levels below recent peaks but which
are nonetheless still quite high. Australia’s terms of trade
similarly peaked about six months ago, though they too remain
high.  Financial market sentiment has generally improved this
year, and  capital markets  are supplying funding to corporations
and well-rated banks. At the margin, wholesale funding costs
have declined over recent months, though they remain higher,
relative to benchmark rates, than in mid 2011. Market sentiment
remains skittish, however, and the tasks of putting European
banks and sovereigns onto a sound footing for the longer term,
and of improving  Europe ’s growth prospects, remain large. Hence
Europe will remain a potential source of adverse shocks for some
time yet.  In Australia, output growth was somewhat below trend over
the past year, notwithstanding that growth in domestic demand
ran at its fastest pace for four years. Output growth was
affected in part by temporary factors, but also by the
persistently high  exchange rate . Considerable structural change
is also occurring in the economy. Labour market conditions
softened during 2011, though the rate of unemployment has so far
remained little changed at a low level.  Recent data for inflation show that after a pick up in the
first half of last year, underlying inflation has declined
again, and was a little over 2 per cent over the latest four
quarters. CPI inflation has also declined, from about 3½ per
cent to a little over 1½ per cent at the latest reading, as the
weather-driven rises in food prices in the first half of last
year have, as expected, now been fully reversed. Over the coming
one to two years, and abstracting from the effects of the carbon
price, inflation will probably be lower than earlier expected,
but still in the 2-3 per cent range.  As a result of changes to monetary policy late last year,
 interest rates  for borrowers have been close to their medium-
term averages over recent months, albeit tending to increase a
little as lenders passed on the higher costs of funding their
books. Credit growth remains modest overall. Housing prices have
shown some signs of stabilising recently, after having declined
for most of 2011, but generally the housing market remains
subdued. The exchange rate remains high even though the terms of
trade have declined somewhat.  Since it last changed the cash rate in December, the Board
has maintained the view that the setting of policy was
appropriate for the time being, but that the inflation outlook
would provide scope for easier monetary policy, if needed, to
support demand. The accretion of evidence over recent months
suggests that it is now appropriate for a further step in that
direction.  In considering the appropriate size of adjustment to the
cash rate at today’s meeting, the Board judged it desirable that
financial conditions now be easier than those which had
prevailed in December. A reduction of 50 basis points in the
cash rate was, in this instance, therefore judged to be
necessary in order to deliver the appropriate level of borrowing
rates.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Iain Wilson in Sydney at 
 Iwilson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  