-- RIM Woos App Developers in $13 Billion Market
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-01T20:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/rim-woos-app-developers-in-13-billion-market-corporate-canada.html
When  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  began offering  $1,599
tickets  to its developers’ conference last week, the event sold
out in less than two hours.  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , whose
BlackBerry expo starts today, is working a bit harder.  The conference in  Orlando ,  Florida , has plenty of space
available. RIM has sought to entice developers with an early
look at the new BlackBerry 10 phones, which are due later this
year. The company is giving away prototypes of the devices in an
effort to jump-start enthusiasm and get people designing
software for the new technology.  RIM is struggling to maintain the interest of developers,
who are flocking to Apple’s iOS or  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.
Smartphone applications worldwide, everything from Instagram to
“Fruit Ninja,” generate more than $13 billion a year, and many
app programmers don’t get enough payback designing for  RIM (RIMM) ’s
less popular platform. After product delays and market-share
losses, the company has to convince attendees that the new
BlackBerry operating system can restore its past glory.  “There’s definitely a section of the market that has to be
won over,” Adam Linford, head of mobile apps at Truphone, a
London-based developer of Internet-calling software for Android,
iPhone and BlackBerry devices.  The prototype devices, distributed to developers today,
have a 4.2-inch display and resemble a scaled-down version of
the RIM’s PlayBook tablet. While the prototypes lack the
physical keyboard that has been a hallmark of most BlackBerrys,
Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins today showed off features
like word prediction that he said will make typing on the
virtual keyboard easy for BlackBerry fans. And some of the
BlackBerry 10 phones will have traditional keyboards, the
company said.  Twitter Buzz  Alec Saunders, RIM’s head of developer relations, has
become the chief evangelist for BlackBerry 10 in the seven
months since he joined the company. He’s been sending daily
 tweets  on Twitter for weeks, working to promote the BlackBerry
10 Jam developer event -- a confab held alongside RIM’s larger
BlackBerry World conference. Still, even developers that build
BlackBerry apps see it as an uphill battle.  A  survey  this year by Appcelerator and IDC found that 89
percent of developers were “very interested” in writing
software for the iPhone, while the figure was 79 percent for
Android. Only 16 percent of developers said the same about the
BlackBerry.  App Race  While the old BlackBerry has more than 60,000 apps, the
upgrade will require developers to start over and create
programs for the new operating system. RIM does have about
10,000 apps available that were created for the PlayBook tablet
that should be able to easily transfer to the first BlackBerry
10 devices, Saunders said in March.  Still, that puts RIM further behind Apple, which has more
than 600,000 apps in its store, and Google, with more than
500,000. The global app market will grow to $35.6 billion in
2016, from $13.4 billion this year, according to research firm
 Yankee Group .  Improved software and developer tools for the new operating
system, known as BB10, will make it easier to build apps. Even
so, RIM’s declining sales make the proposition less attractive
to developers, especially for those who already do well off of
Android and the iPhone, Linford said.  “The technology is right -- it’s something people can work
with, and the hardware is good,” he said. But it will come down
to how RIM takes it to market, Linford said. The company hasn’t
set a release date yet for BB10 devices, saying only that the
debut will happen in the latter half of the year.  ‘Laser-Focused’  The stakes have never been higher for RIM in its 28-year
history. RIM is counting on BB10 to revive BlackBerry demand in
the U.S., where sales plummeted 57 percent last quarter.Heins
said he’s weighing strategic options for RIM, including
licensing its new software. He also hasn’t ruled out a sale of
the company.  “I joined RIM three months ago and a lot has been said and
written about RIM in this time,” Heins said in a speech today
at the conference. “We are laser-focused on delivering on time
and exceeding your expectations.”  Shares of Waterloo, Ontario-based RIM fell 5.7 percent to
$13.48 at the close in  New York . The stock is down more than 90
percent from its mid-2008 peak.  Some RIM developers are skipping BlackBerry World
altogether. That includes Kunal Gupta, the founder and CEO of
Toronto-based Polar Mobile, which builds apps for magazines such
as  Sports Illustrated , Vogue and Variety.  Supply Versus Demand  While Polar Mobile has about 300 BlackBerry apps, Gupta
hasn’t yet committed fresh resources to BB10. He’s focusing more
on Android, iOS and new platforms such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s site.  RIM will have to do more to persuade business customers to
bother making BB10 apps, Gupta said. If users continue to
abandon RIM’s platform, developers will have a harder time
making a living building for BlackBerry, Gupta said. “Saunders
is focusing on the supply. RIM needs to focus on the demand.”  For his magazine clients, the BlackBerry is just not as
lucrative for advertising sales, he said.  “The ad experience hasn’t got better on BlackBerry,
whereas it has on Android and iOS,” said Gupta, who studied
software engineering at the University of Waterloo, the same
place where BlackBerry inventor  Mike Lazaridis  went more than
two decades earlier.  QNX Software  With BB10, RIM is rebuilding the operating system from
scratch. Its previous software was saddled with an aging Web
browser that couldn’t match the iPhone’s capabilities. BB10, in
contrast, evolved from software called QNX, which is used to run
nuclear  power plants  and unmanned U.S. Army tanks. RIM bought
the software in 2010 for $200 million.  Saunders has been crisscrossing  North America  in recent
months, telling developers about the stability and multitasking
abilities that QNX brings to BB10. RIM has about 1,000
developers signed up for BlackBerry Jam, and is giving out up to
2,000 of the BB10 prototypes, the company said last week. A
 conference pass  is $299 -- a fifth the cost of Apple’s developer
event, which last year was capped at 5,000 attendees.  BlackBerry World, a broader show aimed at everyone from
customers to RIM partners, is held less than a mile away. It has
5,000 confirmed attendees, close to last year’s numbers,
according to RIM.  Fewer financial analysts and investors are making the trip
this year. RIM said in March it would stop giving revenue and
profit forecasts because the “ongoing weakness” of U.S. sales
made predictions difficult. It then postponed the investor day
that traditionally starts the conference until after the
introduction of BB10.  No Need  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in
 Boston , isn’t going to BlackBerry World, despite attending each
of the past five years.  “I don’t see the need -- I would be surprised if more than
5 percent are going,” he said of his colleagues. Thornton, who
has a neutral rating on the stock, doesn’t know any investors
heading to Orlando.  Kris Thompson, an analyst with National Bank Financial in
Toronto, said he or someone from his firm has always gone in
years past but won’t this year.  “There’s not a lot of value going if management are not
going to be available,” said Thompson, who expects the stock to
 underperform  its peers.  RIM’s main effort is getting the first BB10 phone out in
time for the year-end holiday shopping season. Even if the
introduction goes smoothly, the company will then face another
hurdle: Apple’s next iPhone is expected at the same time,
Thornton said.  “It’s going to be tough to get it to stand out when
they’re going to be launching it around the same time as iPhone
5,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  