-- RIM Releases BlackBerry Prototypes to Kick Off New Smartphone
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-05-01T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/rim-releases-blackberry-prototypes-to-kick-off-new-smartphone.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , trying to
pull out of a sales slump, moved a step closer to the debut of a
new BlackBerry smartphone by releasing as many as 2,000
prototypes to developers.  The touch-screen devices, which have a 4.2-inch display and
resemble a scaled-down version of the PlayBook tablet, are being
distributed today to developers at RIM’s BlackBerry Jam event in
 Orlando ,  Florida . The prototypes lack the physical keyboard that
has been a hallmark of most BlackBerrys.  “What we’re doing is giving them hardware they can build
on, so they can feel confident that the work that they do, the
behavior they see on their applications, will carry forward onto
the launch hardware,” said Christopher Smith, a vice president
in charge of handheld application platform and tools at
Waterloo, Ontario-based  RIM. (RIMM)   The new BlackBerry 10 lineup, due to hit stores this year,
is the linchpin of RIM’s strategy to  revive growth . Sales at the
company tumbled 25 percent last quarter, with U.S. revenue
plummeting more than 50 percent. The old BlackBerry, best-suited
for checking e-mail and other business functions, had struggled
to keep up with the Web capabilities and apps of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone and Google Inc.’s Android devices.  The prototypes will come loaded with an early version of
the BlackBerry 10 operating system. That will help developers
start building apps before the official release, Smith said.
Even so, the test systems won’t look exactly like the finished
product, he said.  No Release Date  “It’s not going to be the same hardware platform, but it’s
certainly going to be representative,” Smith said. RIM hasn’t
said when the first BB10 phone will be released beyond
indicating it will be in the latter part of 2012.  RIM is releasing a developer tool kit that includes
software called Cascades, which will help build graphic-rich
applications. It also offers support for HTML5, the broadly
popular programming language.  The app developers that have already pledged to create apps
for BlackBerry 10 include mobile search-engine maker  Poynt Corp. (PYN) 
and video-game company  Gameloft SA. (GFT)   “We’re seeing a lot of excitement and I expect it to
continue,” Smith said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  