-- Romanian Premier Sets Cabinet, Georgescu Named as Finance Chief
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-05-01T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/romania-s-ponta-sets-cabinet-names-georgescu-as-finance-chief.html
Romanian Prime Minister-designate
Victor Ponta announced his Cabinet yesterday, choosing central
banker Florin Georgescu to be finance minister as the Balkan
nation continues international bailout talks.  Lawmakers in Bucharest will probably hold a confidence vote
in the government on May 7, Ponta said in a televised speech
late yesterday. The three-month-old Cabinet of Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu was ousted on April 27 in a no-confidence motion.
Ponta will be backed by his  Social Democrats  and the Liberals,
the opposition parties that initiated the vote against the
previous administration.  The ouster of Ungureanu took place as the  International
Monetary Fund  and the European Union were reviewing the
country’s progress under a precautionary-loan accord. The
lenders suspended formal discussions and said they will continue
technical work until a new government is installed.  “It’s a special government, created in special
circumstances with a limited mandate until the general
election,” Ponta said. “It is essential for the new government
to respect  Romania ’s pledges to its international lenders, but
it is also essential to respect our pledges to our citizens.”  The Romanian leu fell to a record low of 4.4620 per euro
today in Bucharest, marking the third day of losses following
the government’s fall.  Bailout Talks  Romania, which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
credit from the IMF and the EU in 2011 to shield it from
 Europe ’s debt crisis, is trying to assure investors it will
maintain fiscal discipline and cut the  budget deficit  to 1.9
percent of gross domestic product this year after a gap of 4.4
percent in 2011. It hasn’t drawn any funds so far.  Georgescu, 58, is the central bank’s first deputy governor.
He will return to the bank after elections later this year.
Daniel Chitoiu, 44, was named as economy minister, while Rovana
Plumb will become environment minister. Leonard Orban, a former
European Union commissioner, stays on as the minister in charge
of absorbing EU funds, Ponta said.  If Ponta, a former prosecutor, fails to get the backing of
lawmakers, the president will nominate another candidate. A
second failure may trigger early elections, according to the
constitution. Romania is scheduled to hold local balloting on
June 10 and a general election later this year.  Rating Pressure  “The fall of the second government in Romania in less than
three months has increased political uncertainty,”  Fitch
Ratings  said in a statement on April 30. “A material increase
in populist policies resulting in a significant divergence from
the current fiscal consolidation program, either before or after
the general elections, could put downward pressure on the
rating.”  Fitch raised Romania’s credit rating to an investment grade
BBB- in July last year after the government embarked on a
program to cut the budget deficit and the economy exited a two-
year recession.  Ponta said on April 30 that he expects a letter of intent
with the IMF to be approved by the new government on May 8
following the review mission.  “It’s obvious that few of the pledges Romania has
undertaken so far can be changed, but the new government has its
own vision,” Ponta said.  Opinion Polls  The Social Democrats and the Liberals, who formed an
alliance ahead of elections this year, lead in opinion polls and
would garner more than 48 percent of the votes in a general
election, according a survey published by pollster IMAS on
Adevarul newspaper on April 2.  Previous governments had pledged to sell minority stakes in
state-owned companies such as utility  Transgaz SA (TGN)  and hydro-
power operator Hidroelectrica SA on the stock exchange and
majority stakes in unprofitable  Oltchim SA (OLT)  this year.  The country’s economic growth will probably slow to as low
as 1.5 percent this year, after output grew 2.5 percent last
year, on declining exports to western Europe and weak domestic
demand, according to IMF forecasts.  The economy probably posted an annual growth of about 1.5
percent in the first quarter, outgoing Finance Minister Bogdan Dragoi said, adding that the ministry has 5 billion euros and 7
billion lei ($1.5 billion) in reserves and that the
macroeconomic conditions allow the new Cabinet to restore public
sector wages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  