-- Romney Meets Bloomberg, Talks Gun Control, Immigration
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-05-02T04:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/romney-meets-bloomberg-talks-gun-control-immigration.html
As President  Barack Obama  pushed
national security to the political forefront with an unannounced
trip to Afghanistan,  Mitt Romney  appeared at a Manhattan
firehouse and stressed that he also would have ordered the raid
that killed Osama bin Laden a year ago.  Romney, while saying Obama deserves credit for the bin
Laden mission, yesterday termed it “inappropriate” for the
president to have politicized the anniversary of the raid with a
campaign advertisement that suggests the former Massachusetts
governor wouldn’t have acted likewise.  “Had I been president of the  United States , I would have
made the same decision the president made” to carry out the
raid, Romney said after meeting privately with the firefighters.  Romney was joined by former New York Mayor  Rudy Giuliani  at
the SoHo station, which lost 11 men in the Sept. 11 attack on
the World Trade Center. Romney and Giuliani brought pizza and
spent time talking to the firefighters.  Obama, on the one-year anniversary of bin Laden’s killing,
was on his way to  Afghanistan  as Romney was speaking, arriving
after nightfall in that country to sign a strategic partnership
agreement with the Afghan government that is a prelude to U.S.
military disengagement from the decade-long war.  The accord outlining future U.S. support for Afghanistan
took more than a year of negotiations and marks a milestone for
the administration’s goal of handing over security
responsibility to local forces by the end of 2014.  ‘New Day’  “We can see the light of a new day on the horizon,” Obama
said in a nationally televised address from Bagram Airfield base
in Afghanistan.  The president noted that “it was here, in Afghanistan,
where Osama bin laden established a safe-haven for his terrorist
organization” and “launched the attacks that killed nearly
3,000 innocent men, women and children.”  Obama and all others involved in the Bin Laden raid,
including intelligence officials and the armed forces, deserve
credit for its success, Romney said at the firehouse. He said it
was “totally appropriate” for Obama to claim credit for it.  Earlier yesterday during his New York visit, Romney met
with Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  to discuss issues that included gun
control laws and immigration policy.  Obama’s campaign released an ad April 27 that features
former President  Bill Clinton  calling Obama courageous for
ordering the bin Laden raid. It questions whether Romney would
have made the same call, noting that, during his first
presidential run, Romney said in an April 2007 interview, “It’s
not worth moving heaven and earth, spending billions of dollars
just trying to catch one person.”  Pushing Back  In pushing back against the ad, Romney yesterday on the
CBS program “This Morning” said, “These silly kinds of
attacks, it’s like, what has that got to do with getting our
economy going. Of course I would have taken out  Osama bin
Laden .”  He made similar comments April 30 at a campaign stop in
Portsmouth,  New Hampshire .  As Romney sought to parry Obama on the bin Laden raid, the
Republican’s spokesman on national security matters, Richard Grenell, who is openly gay, resigned his campaign post yesterday
following attacks by anti-gay activists.  “My ability to speak clearly and forcefully on the issues
has been greatly diminished by the hyper-partisan discussion of
personal issues that sometimes comes from a presidential
campaign,” Grenell said, according to a statement obtained by
the Washington Post, which earlier reported the resignation.  ‘Non-Issue’  Grenell, who served as chief U.S. spokesman at the  United
Nations  throughout President  George W. Bush ’s administration,
thanked Romney “for his belief in me and my abilities and his
clear message to me that being openly gay was a non-issue for
him and his team.”  Romney campaign manager Matt Rhoades expressed
disappointment “that Ric decided to resign from the campaign
for his own personal reasons.” In a statement, Rhoades said,
“We wanted him to stay because he had superior qualifications
for the position he was hired to fill.”  Teddy Goff, digital director for Obama’s re-election
campaign, wrote in a Twitter message: “Today we learned that in
the year 2012, a Republican nominee for president can’t have a
gay person as spokesman.”  Endorsement Question  Romney, 65, told reporters that he didn’t ask for
Bloomberg’s endorsement in his meeting with the mayor.  Bloomberg, 70, later said he hasn’t decided whether he will
endorse a presidential candidate, while he acknowledged clear
differences between Obama and Romney.  “I’ll see down the road,” Bloomberg told reporters at
 City Hall . “I think both are very smart, very formidable
candidates. They’re very different, and they give the public a
real choice.”  Bloomberg’s press secretary,  Stu Loeser , said the private
session lasted about 30 minutes at the mayor’s philanthropic
foundation in  Manhattan .  Bloomberg is a former Democrat who became a Republican to
run for mayor in 2001 and 2005 and then became an independent in
2007. He won his third mayoral term running on the Independence
Party and Republican Party ballot lines in 2009. He met with
Obama for a March 11 lunch at the White House. On April 27, he
played golf in the Washington area with Vice President  Joe Biden .  Discussing Issues  Loeser said Bloomberg and Romney discussed issues the mayor
has emphasized over the years, including increased efforts to
prevent illegal gun sales and less restrictive immigration laws.
In his campaign for the Republican presidential nomination,
Romney has stressed his support for gun rights and taken a tough
stance on illegal immigration.  “We need a president who will enforce current laws, not
create new ones that only serve to burden lawful gun owners,”
Romney said in an April 13 speech at the  National Rifle
Association ’s convention in St Louis.  “It’s hard to argue that you can’t tell the difference”
between Romney and Obama on the issues, Bloomberg said in his
comments at City Hall. “They run the spectrum on lots of
different issues.”  Romney told reporters he and Bloomberg discussed “a wide
array of things,” mostly about the city. “The mayor and I had
a very nice chat,” he said.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporters on this story: Henry Goldman in  New
York  at   hgoldman@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Dodge in New York at 
 Cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Jeanne
Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  