-- Rupert Murdoch Not Fit to Lead News Corp., Lawmakers Say
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-01T18:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/rupert-murdoch-not-fit-person-to-lead-news-corp-lawmakers-say.html
News Corp. (NWSA)  Chairman Rupert Murdoch is
“not a fit person” to lead a major international company, U.K.
lawmakers said, after his British unit misled Parliament about
the extent of phone hacking at its News of the World tabloid.  Murdoch “turned a blind eye and exhibited willful
blindness to what was going on in his companies,” the House of
Commons Culture Committee said in a report today that split
lawmakers along party lines on critical findings. “This
culture, we consider, permeated from the top throughout the
organization and speaks volumes about the lack of effective
corporate governance at News Corp.”  The report may increase the likelihood that U.K. regulator
Ofcom concludes News Corp. is unfit to hold a broadcasting
license and asks the company to reduce its 39 percent stake in
 British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc. (BSY)  The phone-hacking scandal
prompted News Corp. to abandon a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.7
billion) bid for the rest of BSkyB, the U.K.’s biggest pay-
television provider, last year. Tim Bale, a Sussex University
politics professor, said he was surprised by the report’s strong
language.  “It’s clearly not good news,” he said in a phone
interview, adding that the report contained “really serious”
accusations. “They clearly must have been hoping that the
committee would have been more measured and more cautious.”  ‘Hard Truths’  While the report contained “hard truths” for News Corp.,
it has already confronted the problems documented in it by
conducting internal reviews of its newspapers, providing
evidence to authorities and setting up internal controls to
prevent hacking or bribery from occurring in the future, the New
York-based company said in a statement today.  The company’s investigations into its Times, Sunday Times
and Sun newspapers uncovered “no evidence of illegal conduct
other than a single incident reported months ago,” Murdoch said
in a separate statement. About a dozen reporters at the Sun have
been arrested, though not charged, in a police investigation
into bribery. News Corp.’s internal investigators have been
handing over information to the police.  “We certainly should have acted more quickly and
aggressively to uncover wrongdoing,” Murdoch said. “We deeply
regret what took place and have taken our share of
responsibility for not rectifying the situation sooner.”  ‘Above the Law’  Three executives at the News International unit --  Les Hinton , Tom Crone and  Colin Myler  -- gave misleading testimony
to the committee in 2009, the panel said in London. The company
failed to disclose documents and made statements that “were not
fully truthful,” and Murdoch, 81, and his son James must
ultimately take responsibility, the lawmakers said.  The 11-member committee has been working on its report
since July, when the Murdochs were summoned to testify about
their roles in the scandal. Father and son told a media-ethics
inquiry last week that underlings, particularly Crone and Myler,
were to blame for their failure to detect any wrongdoing at the
now defunct newspaper.  “The News of the World and News International misled the
committee about the true nature and extent of the internal
investigations they professed to have carried out in relation to
phone hacking,” the panel said. “Their instinct throughout was
to cover up rather than seek out wrongdoing.”  The six Labour and Liberal Democrat lawmakers on the
committee voted to conclude that  Rupert Murdoch  is “not a fit
person” to lead a major international company and the four
members of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s  Conservative Party 
voted against it. One of them, Louise Mensch, said they “felt
that was ultimately outside the scope of a select committee.”  Conservative Dissent  “Rupert Murdoch clearly is a fit and proper person to run
an international company,” said Philip Davies, another
dissenting Conservative. “He’s been running businesses since
before I was born. We’ve seen absolutely no evidence to suggest
that Rupert Murdoch was aware these things were going on.”  Labour’s  Tom Watson  argued those in charge needed to take
responsibility. “We found News Corp. carried out an extensive
cover-up of its rampant law breaking,” he told reporters. “The
two men at the top of the company need to answer for that.”  The division along party lines may lead to further
suggestions that Cameron and his Conservatives are too close to
Murdoch. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt  is under pressure to
resign following the publication of e-mails last week which
showed his office had been providing information to News Corp.
about the government’s position on the BSkyB bid when Hunt was
in charge of deciding on whether it should be allowed.  Skeptical Report  The report was skeptical of Murdoch’s claim the hacking and
the cover-up had all been at too low a level for him to know
about. “In his testimony to us and also the  Leveson Inquiry ,
Rupert Murdoch has demonstrated excellent powers of recall and
grasp of detail, when it has suited him,” the committee said.  Ofcom has said it will draw upon the report for its
decision on News Corp.’s fitness to hold a broadcasting license.
The regulator asked News Corp. last week to provide documents
from civil phone-hacking lawsuits as it decides whether the
matter has compromised the company’s ability to run BSkyB, and
it said today it will assess the new evidence.  The lawmakers are “not the people ultimately to decide
whether someone is a fit and proper person, and it’s not over
until the fat lady, in other words a regulator, sings,”  Sussex
University ’s Bale said.  45 Arrests  Police probes into phone and computer hacking and bribery
have led to about 45 arrests, including former News of the World
editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , once Cameron’s
communications chief. News Corp. closed the Sunday tabloid in
July and later replaced it with a Sunday edition of the Sun.  After the hacking scandal first became public in 2006, with
the arrest of a reporter,  Clive Goodman , and a private
investigator,  Glenn Mulcaire , the company’s “containment
approach” was to blame the crime on one “rogue reporter,” the
panel said. It then shifted blame to “certain individuals,”
including Myler and Crone, “whilst striving to protect more
senior figures,” notably 39-year-old  James Murdoch , News
Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer.  Myler and Crone “cannot be allowed to carry the whole of
the blame as News Corp. has clearly intended,” the committee
said. “The whole affair demonstrated huge failings of corporate
governance.”  The two men, summoned before the Culture Committee last
September, denied having misled it in 2009.  Hinton’s Role  Hinton didn’t tell the truth about payments to Goodman and
the extent of his knowledge of the voice-mail allegations, the
lawmakers said today. Crone misled the panel about the
significance of the first legal settlement with a victim of
hacking, while he and Myler lied about their knowledge of the
participation of other News of the World employees in criminal
activity, according to today’s report.  “I stand by the evidence that I gave the committee,”
Myler said in an e-mailed statement today.  Crone said the same, adding that the committee was
misinterpreting his earlier testimony.  “I accept that there are valid criticisms of my conduct in
this matter, but for the second time in a week, I seem to be the
subject of serious allegations which lack foundation,” he said.  In a separate statement, Hinton said he also denied the
accusations. “I have always been truthful in my dealings with
the committee and its findings are unfounded,” he said.  Contempt Vote  Parliament as a whole will be asked to vote on whether the
men are guilty of contempt. The committee chairman,  John Whittingdale , said it wasn’t clear what the punishment could be,
because no one has been found guilty of it for decades.  BSkyB gained 1.9 percent to close at 691 pence in  London 
trading. That was below the 700 pence per share News Corp.
offered to pay last year for the remaining 61 percent stake.  Analysts including Sanford C. Bernstein’s Claudio Aspesi
said today Murdoch could decide to sell the stake in the pay-TV
operator. BSkyB had risen as high as 850 pence before newspaper
reports in July that News of the World employees intercepted
murder victim Milly Dowler’s voice mails in 2002.  News Corp. rose as much as 2 percent in  New York . The stock
had risen 9.9 percent this year before today.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  