-- Rupert Murdoch Regretting BSkyB IPO Seen Risking the Rest
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-05-02T16:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/rupert-murdoch-regretting-bskyb-ipo-now-seen-risking-the-rest.html
Rupert Murdoch said last week he
regretted the 1994 initial public offering of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , which reduced  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s control. Now
its remaining 39 percent holding in the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV
company may be slipping further from his grasp.  As U.K. regulator Ofcom steps up its probe into whether
News Corp. and its executives are “fit and proper” to hold a
broadcasting license following a phone-hacking scandal,
lawmakers ruled yesterday that Murdoch is not “fit” to run a
company. The findings could prompt the 81-year-old News Corp.
chairman to lower his BSkyB stake or sell the whole thing, said
Sanford C Bernstein analyst  Claudio Aspesi .  “I would not be surprised to see them decide that their
best option is to divest altogether from it,” said Aspesi, who
has an “underperform” rating on BSkyB stock.  Murdoch last year abandoned a 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6
billion) bid for the rest of BSkyB, which he built into one of
his most profitable units, after employees of News Corp.’s U.K.
publishing unit hacked into the phones of politicians and
celebrities for exclusive stories. By echoing Ofcom’s own
investigation, the U.K. lawmakers cast doubt on whether News
Corp. will be able to even hold onto the current stake.  Murdoch “exhibited willful blindness to what was going on
in his companies and publications,” the House of Commons
Culture Committee said in a report that split lawmakers along
party lines on critical findings. “This culture, we consider,
permeated from the top.”  Cash Benefit  James Murdoch , who was chief executive officer of BSkyB
from 2003 to 2007, last month stepped down as chairman of the
broadcaster because of the phone-hacking scandal.  Tom Mockridge ,
who replaced Rebekah Brooks as CEO of the News International
U.K. unit, was named deputy chairman of BSkyB.  Controlling BSkyB would have given News Corp. access to the
company’s cash, allowing it to expand further. The Isleworth,
England-based company had free cash flow of 869 million pounds
at the end of fiscal 2011.  BSkyB today said earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization rose 20 percent in the first nine
months as it gained more broadband clients.  The stock rose 10.5 pence, or 1.5 percent, to 701.5 pence
at the close of trading in  London . News Corp. added 0.5 percent
to $19.89 at 12:23 p.m. in  New York .  BSKyB, with more than 10 million customers, has altered its
strategy amid slowing subscriber growth and is focusing on
selling high-definition TV services alongside Internet broadband
and telephone subscriptions to existing users.  A News Corp. spokeswoman said the company remains a
committed long-term BSkyB shareholder.  Rupert Regrets  The value of News Corp.’s BSkyB holding has more than
doubled since the London-based company’s IPO on Dec. 8, 1994.
The shares have also outperformed those of News Corp., which
dropped by 7.7 percent in the last five years. In contrast,
BSkyB rose 21 percent in London.  While the share sale paid off financially, Murdoch said he
regretted giving up some control.  “With hindsight, I regret that I ever agreed to an IPO,
although I admit that they were different times and there were
probably monetary pressures which encouraged it,” Murdoch said
April 25 at a U.K. media-ethics inquiry, called for by Prime
Minister  David Cameron . At the same event, Murdoch said he
“failed” to prevent the phone-hacking scandal at News Corp.’s
News of the World tabloid and blamed employees and lawyers for
covering up the crime.  ITV Precedent  Ofcom, which started gathering evidence last week, said
yesterday it will take the lawmaker committee’s report into
account as part of its own probe. The regulator, which asked
News Corp. last week to provide documents from civil cases, has
said the New York-based company’s existing stake gives it
“material influence” over BSkyB.  Even if News Corp. tried to avoid a sale, it may be
compelled to sell down its stake in BSkyB to below 7.5 percent
based on prior rulings by U.K. competition authorities, said
 Will Smith , an analyst at Jefferies International in London, who
rates BSkyB shares “hold.”  In 2010, BSkyB was ordered to reduce its 17.9 percent
holding in U.K. broadcaster  ITV Plc (ITV)  to less than 7.5 percent
after antitrust authorities said such ownership could reduce
competition in the television market.  Cover-Up  News Corp. Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey “has
suggested that if there isn’t a path to control they’re more
likely to sell assets than buy assets,” said Sarah Simon, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London. “They’re very unlikely in
the near to medium term to proceed with a new bid.”  News Corp. failed to disclose documents and made statements
that “were not fully truthful,” the lawmaker panel said in
London. Murdoch and his son James, who was chairman of the U.K.
publishing business, must ultimately take responsibility, the
lawmakers said. Three executives at the News International unit
--  Les Hinton , Tom Crone and  Colin Myler  -- gave misleading
testimony to the committee in 2009, the panel said.  The six Labour and Liberal Democrat lawmakers on the
committee voted to condemn  Rupert Murdoch ’s leadership and the
four members of Prime Minister David Cameron’s  Conservative
Party  voted against it. One of them, Louise Mensch, said they
“felt that was ultimately outside the scope of a select
committee.”  Ofcom Independence  In a note to News Corp.’s employees, Murdoch yesterday said
that “we certainly should have acted more quickly and
aggressively to uncover wrongdoing” and that “we deeply regret
what took place and have taken our share of responsibility for
not rectifying the situation sooner.” News Corp. will continue
to cooperate with all inquiries, he said.  Any buyer of News Corp.’s entire stake in BSkyB would also
have to bid for the rest of the company, Sanford Bernstein’s
Aspesi said. “It is never a great position to be in, a forced
seller,” he said. They will “still look at this as a response
to a potential regulatory action.”  BSkyB could buy the stake itself if News Corp. had to sell,
Jefferies’ Smith said.  Ofcom, which has held discussions with the police, has said
it will continue to assess all the evidence, including the
ongoing police inquiries as well as the lawmaker conclusions.  “Ofcom is supposed to be independent of government. This
is very clearly a government report,” Berenberg’s Simon said.
It’s designed to grab the headlines. Ofcom has to do its own
work.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  