-- Russia Fund Seeks to Close Deals With U.S. Firms in 2012
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-05-01T04:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/russia-fund-seeks-to-close-deals-with-u-s-firms-in-2012.html
Russia’s sovereign-wealth fund, whose
advisers include  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ’s  Stephen Schwarzman , may
complete deals with U.S. buyout firms valued at more than $1
billion each this year, its chief executive officer said.  The Russian Direct Investment Fund is working with American
investors on acquiring minority stakes in Russian companies, CEO
Kirill Dmitriev said yesterday in an interview at the Milken
Institute Global Conference. The Moscow-based fund, which got $2
billion from the Kremlin in December, seeks returns of at least
5 percent to 7 percent greater than what investors could obtain
in  U.S. public markets , he said.  Dmitriev, 37, educated at  Stanford University  and Harvard
Business School, is pitching Western investors on Russia’s
changing demographics and stabilizing political environment. He
said he wants to close one or two investment deals this year
with U.S. private-equity firms, which he declined to name.  “It’s an uphill education process,” he said. “ Russia  has
changed a lot in the last 20 years.”  U.S. investors are wary of systemic corruption and
interference from the Kremlin, billionaire property investor  Sam Zell  said yesterday during a panel discussion at the conference,
held in Beverly Hills,  California . There aren’t credible avenues
for resolving business disputes with Russian authorities, he
said.  “What are you going to do, see a Russian judge?” Zell
said.  Growing Middle Class  The middle class in Russia has tripled in the last five
years to more than 10 million households, defined as having
about $10,000 (294,000 rubles) in annual income, Dmitriev said.  Dmitriev also is setting up a $4 billion joint investment
fund with China Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign-wealth
fund, that is likely to target transactions in Russian forestry,
logistics and agriculture, he said.  That fund will have $1 billion in capital from each country
and is seeking a further $2 billion from other investors,
according to an April 29 statement. As much as 70 percent will
be invested in Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent
States.  Russia’s government has committed to provide $2 billion to
the Russian Direct Investment Fund annually for five years,
Dmitriev said in the interview. The fund has a staff of 60,
including 25 investment professionals, which is expected to grow
to 80 by the end of 2012. Its success ultimately rests on
delivering profits for investors, he said.  “Only by showing good returns will people invest in
Russia,” Dmitriev said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  