-- Sahara Las Vegas Hotel Gets $300 Million for Redevelpment
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/sahara-las-vegas-hotel-gets-300-million-for-redevelpment.html
The owners of the Sahara Hotel &
Casino in  Las Vegas (SPCSLV)  obtained $300 million in funding to
redevelop the landmark property into a resort that will be
called SLS  Las Vegas .  The 1,600-room hotel, located on the north end of the Las
Vegas Strip, will be renovated by the Gensler architecture firm
with interior design by Philippe Starck, said Sam Nazarian,
founder and chairman of SBE Entertainment Group LLC, which owns
the property with Stockbridge Real Estate Funds of San
Francisco.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
raised the funds, SBE said in a statement today.  “Our plan will be to deliver a product that is affordable
and approachable,” Nazarian said in a telephone interview. New
restaurants and nightclubs and 40,000 square feet (3,700 square
meters) of convention space are planned for the hotel, he said.
“We are going back to the roots of Las Vegas.”  SBE plans to open the resort in 2014. The Los Angeles-based
company owns the SLS luxury-hotel chain, Katsuya and Cleo
restaurant brands, and Hyde nightclubs. It’s working on a new
Hyde location at AmericanAirlines Arena, home to the National
Basketball Association’s Miami Heat, and is in talks with  New
York ’s Madison Square Garden, Cowboys Stadium in  Dallas  and
Angel Stadium in Anaheim,  California , among other sports
facilities, according to Nazarian.  The casino at SLS Las Vegas will be on a single floor,
unlike other new developments on the Strip, which have multiple
gaming levels, Nazarian said. SBE will be able to capitalize on
its database of past customers and its visibility in Los
Angeles, the biggest feeder market for Las Vegas, he said.  Celebrities who performed at the Sahara, which was featured
in the 1960 heist film “Ocean’s Eleven” and closed in May
2011, include Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Wayne Newton, Don
Rickles, Dean Martin, Jack Benny and Buddy Hackett, according to
SBE. In 1956, comedians Bud Abbott and Lou Costello appeared at
the Sahara for their last performance together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  