-- Savient Accused of Insolvency by Tang Capital in Lawsuit
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-05-01T19:50:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/savient-accused-of-insolvency-by-tang-capital-in-lawsuit.html
Savient Pharmaceuticals Inc. (SVNT)  was sued
by creditor Tang  Capital Partners , an investment fund focusing
on the life sciences that contended the drugmaker is insolvent
and asked a judge to appoint a receiver.  Tang is East Brunswick, New Jersey-based Savient’s largest
creditor, owning $38.9 million in notes, according to a
complaint made public today in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. Savient shares fell 21 percent in late trading.  Tang objected to the company’s support of a new gout
treatment,  Krystexxa . The drug is Savient’s only “significant”
product and is “an abject failure,” according to Tang’s
complaint. Savient is “gambling tens of millions of dollars in
cash each quarter on an impossible dream,” San Diego-based Tang
said. The complaint also mentions a “proposed transaction”
that’s being kept secret and could allegedly hurt creditors.  Savient said in a February report to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission that “physicians may be reluctant to
treat patients with Krystexxa because of the potential for
extremely severe adverse reactions,” including allergic
anaphylaxis, court papers show.  The fund is seeking “an immediate halt to the excessive
and unjustifiable hemorrhaging of cash by the company that
threatens to inflict irreparable harm on Tang Capital and other
creditors,” according to court papers.  Tang asked a judge to order Savient’s directors to manage
the company “for the benefit of its creditors,” have its
assets liquidated and pay at least $100 million in damages.  In an  SEC filing  today, Savient officials said “the
company believes that the claims alleged by Tang Capital
Partners are without merit.” The company said it will fight the
lawsuit.  The case is Tang v. Norton, CA7476, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  