-- Sears Spinoff Plan May Boost Lampert’s Control
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/sears-spinoff-plan-may-boost-lampert-s-control.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s plan to spin
off its Hometown and Outlet stores may give Chairman  Edward Lampert  an opportunity to hold a larger stake in the new
publicly traded company.  The business will be spun off through a rights offering in
the third quarter and trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market with the
ticker symbol “SHOS,”  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based Sears
said yesterday in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Lampert’s ESL Investments Inc. hedge fund will buy all the
stock it’s entitled to and as many shares as possible that
aren’t purchased by other holders that have rights to invest in
the new entity, Sears said. That may enable Lampert and his
funds to control a larger share of the new company than their
approximately  62 percent stake  in Sears.  The retailer hasn’t decided whether the new business will
take on any debt, it said. All or some of any debt incurred
would be used to fund a cash dividend to be paid to Sears, the
company said.  “It’s a way of extracting value out the company for the
shareholders,” Mary Ross Gilbert, an analyst at Imperial
Capital LLC in  Los Angeles , said in a phone interview. “You’re
buying it at a cheap price, likely close to trough level.”  Ross  rates  Sears underperform, the equivalent of a sell.  Raising Cash  Sears said in February it was planning to spin off its
faster-growing Hometown and Outlet stores to raise $400 million
to $500 million, a range it reaffirmed yesterday. The company
reported its largest quarterly loss in at least nine years on
Feb. 23.  The new company will consist of about 1,240 smaller-format
stores, including 944 Hometown locations and 96 Sears Hardware
stores. It produced $2.34 billion in sales and $80.9 million in
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
in its fiscal 2011, according to the filing.  The new unit “has more promise” than the Sears full-line
stores, Gilbert said.  Sears fell 1 percent to $53.78 at the close in  New York 
yesterday. The  shares  have gained 69 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  