-- Sex Assault Claims at University of Montana Under U.S. Probe
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-05-01T21:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/sexual-assault-claims-at-university-of-montana-under-u-s-probe.html
The U.S. is investigating whether the
University of Montana in Missoula and local  law enforcement 
failed to investigate and prosecute cases of alleged sexual
assault against women, the Justice Department said.  The department is reviewing rape accusations made by women
on and off campus in Missoula, including those unconnected to
the university.  The Justice Department said it hasn’t determined how many
of the 80 rapes reported in Missoula during the past three years
weren’t properly investigated. There were 11 assaults reported
on the campus over 18 months, according to the department.  “The allegations that the University of Montana, the local
police department and the county attorney’s office failed to
adequately address sexual assaults are very disturbing,” said
Attorney General Eric Holder in a statement.  The  Justice Department  is examining whether gender
discrimination played a role in a failure to investigate,
according to the statement.  Justice Department letters to the university and local
officials describing the investigation didn’t mention sexual
assault allegations women made against two members of the
Division I football team at the state’s oldest college, which
has nearly 16,000 students. One player has been charged.  Police, County Attorney  The department will investigate whether the Missoula Police
Department and the Missoula County Attorney’s Office “failed to
investigate or prosecute sexual assaults,” according to the
Justice Department’s letters to local officials.  The investigation will examine whether the university and
local law enforcement “acted promptly, fairly and adequately to
protect the interests of women,” said  Thomas Perez , who leads
the Justice Department’s civil rights division, in a conference
call with reporters.  “We will cooperate fully and do whatever we can to be
helpful in the investigation,” said James Foley, a university
spokesman.  At least five of the accused students have left the
university, said its president, Royce Engstrom, in a March 22
statement.  Football Player  Ginny Merriam, a spokeswoman for the city of Missoula, and
Fred Van Valkenburg, the Missoula county attorney, didn’t
immediately respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment.  The football player charged is running back Beau Donaldson.
He was arrested in January on charges that he assaulted a woman
sleeping in his house in September 2010, according to the
Missoulian newspaper.  Donaldson, who pleaded not guilty and is scheduled to go on
trial in September, talked about the attack in a December 2011
telephone call monitored by police, the Missoulian said. His
attorney, Milton Datsopoulos of Missoula, didn’t respond to a
phone message seeking comment.  In March, a female student obtained a protection order
against quarterback Jordan Johnson after accusing him of
sexually assaulting her, according to Josh Van de Wetering, a
Missoula attorney representing the victim, whose name hasn’t
been made public.  Contracts Not Renewed  Johnson’s attorney, David Paoli of Missoula, didn’t respond
to a phone message seeking comment.  In March, the university announced it wouldn’t renew the
contracts of Athletic Director Jim O’Day and head football coach
Robin Pflugrad, who led the team to an 11-3 record last season.
Foley said he couldn’t comment on a “personnel matter.”  The University of  Montana  “has a problem of sexual assault
on and off campus,” said Diane Barz, a retired Montana Supreme
Court justice retained by the university to conduct an
independent investigation in a Jan. 31 letter summarizing her
findings.  Some students questioned about the allegations “have not
been truthful,” Barz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  