-- Sharp Shares Fall on Wider-Than-Estimated Loss Forecast
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-05-01T06:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/sharp-shares-fall-on-wider-than-estimated-loss-forecast.html
Sharp Corp. (6753) ,  Japan ’s largest maker of
liquid-crystal displays, fell to the lowest in 33 years in Tokyo
trading after forecasting a wider-than-expected full-year net
loss amid slow demand for televisions.  The shares  dropped  9.3 percent to close at 468 yen, the
stock’s lowest since Aug. 21, 1979. Japan’s benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average fell 1.8 percent. The maker of Aquos televisions
said April 27 it will probably post a 30 billion yen ($376
million) net loss for the year started April 1, compared with
the 7.6 billion-yen average loss forecast of 23 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Sharp’s LCD and solar-panel businesses will each lose about
10 billion yen this fiscal year, while the audio-visual and
communication equipment unit may lose about 5 billion yen, the
company said last week. The Osaka-based manufacturer, which has
halved output at its largest TV panel factory in Sakai, Japan,
expects TV demand to recover in the fiscal second half,
according to Executive Managing Officer Tetsuo Onishi.  “You can hardly say Sharp has a drastic plan” to improve
its results,  Shiro Mikoshiba , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in Tokyo, said in an April 30 report. The outlook for the
company’s TV, large-panel and solar-panel businesses “remain
very uncertain,” he said, cutting his share-price estimate on
Sharp to 494 yen from 516 yen.  ‘Optimistic’ projection  Japan’s stock exchanges were closed yesterday for a
national holiday. Sharp has lost 30 percent of its market value
so far  this year .  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, will probably be 20 billion yen in the
year started April 1, compared with an operating loss of 37.6
billion yen last year, Sharp said. Revenue is  expected  to gain
10 percent to 2.7 trillion yen.  The operating profit estimate “looks optimistic,” given a
worsened business environment for TVs, mobile phones and large
LCD panels, Masahiro Ono, an analyst at Morgan Stanley MUFG
Securities Co., said in an April 28 report.  Sharp’s large-panel business is expected to post a loss
this fiscal year, while its small and mid-sized panel operations
should be profitable, Onishi said April 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  