-- Secret Roast-Pork Recipe Tests Value of Real Estate
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-05-01T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/singapore-kongs-seek-1-8-million-for-secret-pork-recipe.html
How much is a recipe worth?  About $1.8 million, according to the owner of  Kay Lee Roast
Meat Joint , who boosted the sale price of her  Singapore  eatery
by that amount when she put it on the market this year.  Betty Kong and her husband want S$3.5 million ($2.8
million) for their 60-plastic-stool establishment, a premium
over the S$1.25 million assessed value of the site. The price
includes the property, their recipe for roasting duck, pork ribs
and crispy pig skin as well as other Cantonese-style classics,
plus three months of cooking lessons -- and, presumably, the
loyal clientele that lines up outside, sometimes for more than
an hour.  “I have the heart to run it, but the body isn’t willing
any longer,” said Kong, the 66-year-old proprietress with
frosted hair, cleaver in hand, and a gait burdened by decades of
work. “I’m on my feet for eight hours a day and it’s becoming
tedious now.”  The premium being sought is more than 20 times the amount
for comparable restaurants, raising the issue of whether  trade
secrets  can increase the value of real estate, said Lee Ai Ming,
a partner at Rodyk & Davidson LLP in Singapore.  “It’s a very compelling example of the value of
intellectual property,” she said. “It’s an example of the
price of real estate reflecting the brand and goodwill
associated with a location of a successful business, and I’m
sure we’ll see more.”  Unless It’s KFC  In the U.S., recipes and training are almost always part of
the deal when selling a restaurant, according to Fred Miller, a
partner at the Atlanta Restaurant Exchange  Georgia . His firm
recently brokered a “ classic soul food restaurant ,” a 40-seat,
“highly profitable” business listing for $400,000, including
equipment, furnishings and “tried and true recipes” for fried
chicken, corn bread, collard greens and sweet potatoes. Sales
typically exclude the properties themselves, which are rented.  “The price, as a rule, is tied to a multiple of net
income,” Miller wrote in an e-mail. “Facilities and
intellectual property are seldom even considered. They would not
add very much in the way of value even if they were treated
separately. Unless it is the recipe for Coca-Cola or for
 Kentucky Fried Chicken (YUM) , there are few formulas that would garner
a $2 million premium.”  At Singapore’s Roast Meat Joint, Kong’s husband, 62-year-
old Har Wai Kay, reigns in the kitchen, rising at 4 a.m. daily
to start the dishes his father, whose roots are in Guangzhou,
 China , used to cook for his family in the 1950s. They want to
retire, she said. Neither their son who moved to Australia nor
their daughter, a special-needs teacher, wants to take over.  Too Lazy  “She’s very lazy, says ‘I don’t want to do this work,’”
said Kong, pausing to sit at one of her yellow-laminate tables,
clad in the flip-flop sandals she wears daily and surrounded by
framed food reviews and photos of local actresses, TV hosts, a
member of Parliament and the Taiwan rock band Energy on the
glazed-tile walls.  Kong says her property and recipes warrant the premium in
part because her roast pork, unlike her ubiquitous competition
found on Singapore’s streets for about S$3.50 or less a plate,
uses special herbs and ingredients. She charges S$5.  The Roast Meat Joint generates sales of around S$2,000 a
day, she said, or S$620,000 annually, assuming it’s shut one day
a week and three days for Lunar New Year holidays. Profit margin
is 60 percent, according to her broker Raymond Lo at Knight
Frank LLP. The asking price is 5.6 times annual sales, compared
with the 1.1 multiple for the Singapore benchmark  Straits Times
Index. (FSSTI)  It would take six years to recoup the recipe premium.  Hungry Airmen  The shop started in the 1970s in Chinatown, on the edge of
Singapore’s financial district. It moved about 12 kilometers
(7.5 miles) to the city’s eastern Paya Lebar suburb in the early
1980s, down the street from its current location where it moved
in 2003.  Located about midway between downtown and Changi
International Airport, the Meat Joint stands along a row of
similar two-story food outlets in a bustling commercial area
with offices, hotels, industrial parks, schools and the
Singapore Air Force’s Paya Lebar Air Base, which hosts about a
dozen  U.S. military personnel  as part of the U.S. Air Force
497th Combat Training Squadron. The nearby airmen once called up
for 200 orders, Kong said.  The Roast Meat Joint’s bright yellow sign with Chinese
characters draws the eye of passersby on the Upper Paya Lebar
Road strip, as do the roast ducks, pigs and ribs hanging on
hooks in the front window.  Uniquely Honey-Browned  Customers give the fare rave reviews on the local food site
 hungrygowhere.com  and say that it’s uniquely honey-browned in a
city where most roast pork, known as char siew, is red-barbeque
colored.  “The main draw to this rustic restaurant is its char siew
and its boisterous lady boss,” wrote a reviewer under the name
Waragaw. “For those who like really fatty pork (think decadent
charred pieces of pork belly glistening with oil and honey),
this is one institution you should not miss.”  Another, Ratatouille, wrote: “Like what other reviewers
mentioned, the char siew blows my mind.”  On a recent afternoon, Lee Ai, a 35-year-old designer who
has been patronizing the 1,300-square-foot establishment for
five years, said she would still come even if it’s sold -- as
long as the recipe remains unchanged.  “I love the food here,” she said.  Better Things  While the food may be good, a buyer could find better
things to do with the more than S$2 million premium than become
the owner of some roast-pork recipes, writes Singaporean food
blogger, K.F. Seetoh, who appears regularly on TV and writes
under the name  Makansutra .  “I can buy about four UNESCO World Heritage houses, and
perhaps an existence to go with it,” he wrote. “With that
amount I will also be treated like royalty in the casinos around
the world.”  “Or, I can buy that char-siew and roast-meat business,”
he concluded, “and work tirelessly in the fiery kitchen,
forever.”  Another Cantonese-food vendor, the 83-year-old proprietress
of the  Nam Seng Noodle House  in the heart of the financial
district, Leong Yuet Meng, said she also finds the asking price
extreme.  “Two million dollars for a recipe? Too much,” said Leong,
known by patrons as Grandma or ‘Poh Poh,’ shaking her head in
disbelief and counseling against giving up a line of work she
herself has been doing for 53 years. “You will start developing
dementia if you stop working.”  Too Far-fetched  Broker Raymond Khoo with HSR International Realtors Pte in
Singapore said that he has brokered sales that charged a premium
of as much as S$100,000 on behalf of other small food outlets
and salons that had built up a brand and goodwill.  “Never heard of someone asking for this much money for a
recipe,” he said. “It seems too far-fetched, especially since
it isn’t a multichain operator or a franchise.”  Already, Singapore has more than 15,000 similar food shops,
most of them take-out counters and grouped into what are called
hawker centers with common seating. With such cheap and
plentiful dishes -- reflecting Singapore’s immigrant communities
from  India ,  Malaysia  and China and typically costing S$3-$5 --
sit-down restaurants with waiter service struggle in Singapore.
Sales at restaurants declined 2 percent in February from a year
ago, according to data from the Singapore statistics department.  Higher housing rents and oil costs, expensive private
transportation and unemployment at a 14-year low have kept
prices rising. Singapore’s  inflation  will average 3.5 percent to
4.5 percent in 2012, according to the central bank.  Below-List Offers  Clearly the sweat equity Kong and her husband have put in
has some value. So far, they have received a few offers below
their asking price, Lo said. The best has been a S$2.5 million
bid for a 70 percent stake. The potential buyer also insisted
the owners stay on as advisers for three years with a 30 percent
stake, Lo said. Kong says she wants a full exit.  Other offers include a bid for S$2.8 million, and another
for S$2.5 million from a wealth manager of a bank, Lo said. Kong
says she won’t accept.  “I have put in my blood and sweat, effort and toil into
this business,” Kong said.  Her knees are giving out, she said, and she can’t have
replacement surgery because it takes four months to recover.
Instead, she plans to start closing for two days a week, Mondays
and Tuesdays. And to keep dreaming of an easy retirement --
visiting her son in  Australia , and eating someone else’s food
for a change.  “Fish and chips in  London , Kentucky Fried Chicken in
America,” she mused, insisting on maintaining the fortitude
that has helped her build her business. “I won’t haggle over
the price. I will stick to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  