-- South Korea’s Inflation Moderates to Lowest in 21 Months
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2012-05-01T03:05:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/south-korea-s-inflation-moderates-to-lowest-in-21-months.html
South  Korea ’s exports declined for a
second month in April and inflation cooled, adding pressure on
the central bank to hold  interest rates  next week.  Overseas  shipments  fell 4.7 percent from a year earlier,
after a 1.4 percent decline in March, the Ministry of  Knowledge
Economy  said in a statement today. The median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey of 13 economists was for a 1.1 percent
drop. A separate report today showed that inflation moderated to
a 21-month low last month.  Central banks across most of Asia are keeping rates steady
as they juggle the need to damp inflationary pressures with
bolstering growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in
China weigh on the global economic outlook. The  Bank of Korea 
kept borrowing costs unchanged for a 10th month in April while
cutting its growth forecast for this year.  “Exports this year may fall short of the $595 billion that
we projected in January,” Han Jin Hyun, deputy trade minister,
told reporters in Gwacheon today. “China is slowing at a pace
faster than expected, which is the biggest concern. Europe is
also a major drag.”  The won strengthened 0.4 percent to close at 1,130.13 per
 U.S. dollar  yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The benchmark Kospi stock index rose 0.3 percent. Markets in
South Korea are closed today for a holiday.  Election Effect  The Ministry of Knowledge Economy attributed the decline in
overseas shipments last month to fewer working days due to a
parliamentary election, unusually strong exports a year ago, and
some petrochemical plants being idled for repairs.  “The delayed resolution of the European debt crisis,
slowing Chinese economy, yen weakness and elevated  oil prices 
add to external uncertainty, which may damp export growth and
the  trade surplus ,” the ministry said in a statement today.  An index measuring manufacturers’ confidence rose to a
nine-month high for May and the consumer sentiment index climbed
to a near one-year high on signs of economic recovery, according
to central bank surveys.  “We expect stronger momentum in the second quarter,
supported by a resurgent tech cycle that will boost production
and exports,” Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at
 Barclays Capital  in Singapore, said before the releases.
“Underlying price pressures remain, and may become more acute
in the second half amid stronger growth and  consumer
confidence .”  Output Growth Slows  Output rose at a slower pace in March as the European debt
crisis damped exports and domestic demand weakened.  South Korea ’s economy expanded at the fastest pace in a
year last quarter, boosted by  government spending  and
investments by semiconductor chipmakers. Still, the BOK reduced
its economic growth forecast for this year to 3.5 percent from
3.7 percent on April 16, citing downside risks from the European
debt crisis and high oil prices.  South Korea should raise rates once economic uncertainty
ebbs and allow the won to appreciate to counter inflationary
pressures, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development said on April 26. The Paris-based organization
projected Asia’s fourth-largest economy will expand 3.5 percent
this year and about 4.3 percent in 2013.  Exports fell to $46.3 billion in April from a revised $47.4
billion in March, today’s report showed. Imports declined to
$44.1 billion. The trade surplus was $2.2 billion.  Shipments to the European Union fell 16.7 percent from a
year earlier in the first 20 days of April, the ministry said.
Exports to  China , the biggest buyer of South Korean goods,
increased 1.7 percent, while sales to the U.S. rose 5.6 percent.
Data for exports to individual countries are only available for
the first 20 days of the month.  Exports of semiconductors fell 8.3 percent last month while
car shipments gained 13.6 percent, the ministry said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  