-- Sprint Nextel Officers, Directors Sued Over Tax Claims
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-05-01T17:50:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/sprint-nextel-officers-directors-sued-over-sales-tax-claims-1-.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  officers and
directors were sued by a Louisiana pension fund after New York’s
attorney general accused the third-largest U.S. wireless carrier
of deliberately failing to pay sales taxes.  Sprint officials, including Chief Executive Officer Daniel Hesse, failed to properly oversee the company and subjected it
to liability, according to a complaint filed yesterday in New
York state court by the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System, a Sprint shareholder.  “Despite direct and actual knowledge of this tax dodging
scheme, the individual defendants are continuing their efforts
to evade the taxes owed to the state of New York and are turning
a blind eye to the ongoing illicit conduct,” the pension fund
said in the complaint.  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman sued Sprint in
April, claiming the company failed to collect and pay more than
$100 million in New York sales taxes on flat-rate calling plans.
Schneiderman said he is seeking three times the underpayment,
plus penalties. The office’s investigation began after a
whistle-blower lawsuit, Schneiderman said.  The Louisiana pension fund, which accuses the defendants of
breach of fiduciary duty, said the understatement of tax
liability may require a restatement of Sprint’s financial
results.  John Taylor , a spokesman for Overland Park, Kansas-based
Sprint, declined to comment on the pension fund’s complaint. The
company previously denied the attorney general’s claims and said
it would fight the office’s lawsuit.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees’
Retirement System v. Hesse, 651436-2012, New York State Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  