-- Starwood’s U.S. Mall Deal a ‘One-Off’ Purchase, Sternlicht Says
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-05-01T19:57:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/starwood-s-u-s-mall-deal-a-one-off-purchase-sternlicht-says.html
Starwood Capital Group LLC’s planned
purchase of a majority stake in seven U.S. malls is a “one-
off” deal that represents a bet on low  interest rates  and
inflation, said Chief Executive Officer  Barry Sternlicht .  Starwood earlier this month agreed to buy majority
interests in seven U.S. shopping centers from Australia’s
 Westfield Group (WDC)  for $1 billion. The Greenwich, Connecticut-based
company will manage and control the properties, located in
California, Illinois, Nebraska, Ohio and Florida.  “We can add additional malls to the portfolio, but this is
a one-off,” Sternlicht said in a Bloomberg Television interview
from the Milken Institute Global Conference in Beverly Hills,
California. “If we don’t buy another one, fine. If we find
something good, that is fine too.”  Starwood plans to “repurpose” some of the properties by
bringing in more entertainment and food options, Sternlicht
said. Some of the malls are in smaller U.S. cities, such as
Lincoln,  Nebraska  and Fairfield, California, and are dominant in
their towns, he said.  The malls had total sales of $373 per square foot and were
93.8 percent leased at the end of 2011, according to the April
18 statement from Sydney-based Westfield. The figures exclude
Metreon, a property that is being redeveloped in San Francisco.  Starwood is betting that interest rates stay low so it can
rework the debt on the properties, and that inflation will
increase nominal retail sales, Sternlicht said.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)  of Indianapolis, the biggest
shopping mall owner, said April 27 that its U.S. malls and
outlet centers had sales of $546 per square foot in the first
quarter.  Taubman Centers Inc. (TCO) ’s 12-month trailing mall tenant
sales were $659 per square foot, the Bloomfield Hills, Michigan-
based company said April 26.  Sternlicht said Starwood doesn’t plan on competing with
large U.S. mall operators.  “I can feast on what they do not want to pay attention to
anymore,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in  New York  at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  