-- Strauss-Kahn Loses Bid to Dismiss Maid’s N.Y. Civil Suit
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-01T16:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/strauss-kahn-loses-bid-to-dismiss-maid-s-n-y-civil-suit.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn , the former
International Monetary Fund chief, lost his bid for dismissal of
a lawsuit filed by the hotel maid who accused him of trying to
rape her.  Justice Douglas McKeon of New York State Supreme Court in
the Bronx issued the ruling today. He rejected Strauss-Kahn’s
claim of diplomatic immunity, calling it “his own version of a
‘Hail Mary’ pass.”  The judge pointed to Strauss-Kahn’s decision not to invoke
diplomatic immunity when he was charged criminally with
assaulting the maid, Nafissatou Diallo.  “Mr. Strauss-Kahn cannot eschew immunity in an effort to
clear his name only to embrace it now in an effort to deny Ms.
Diallo the opportunity to clear hers,” McKeon wrote.  Strauss-Kahn, 63, was pulled off an Air France flight at
 John F. Kennedy International Airport  last May 14, arrested and
charged with trying to rape Diallo, a housekeeper at the Sofitel
in midtown  Manhattan . He resigned as head of the IMF four days
later.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. dropped the
criminal charges against Strauss-Kahn after concluding that
Diallo had lied about events surrounding the alleged attack. The
criminal case was dismissed on Aug. 23.  Diallo sued Strauss-Kahn the same month, seeking damages
for what her lawyer called “violent and deplorable acts.”
Unlike a criminal trial, a civil suit doesn’t require proof
beyond a reasonable doubt.  Immunity Claim  Attorneys for Strauss-Kahn argued that he was entitled to
diplomatic immunity under the Convention on the Privileges and
Immunities of the Specialized Agencies, a November 1947 treaty
that established immunity for heads of agencies such as the IMF.  While the U.S. isn’t a party to the treaty, such immunity
has become “customary international law” because of acceptance
from countries that are members of the  United Nations , attorneys
for Strauss-Kahn argued in court filings.  Strauss-Kahn’s attorneys, William Taylor III and Amit
Mehta, are reviewing the court order and considering their legal
options, said Marina Ein, an outside spokeswoman for their firm,
Washington-based Zuckerman Spaeder LLP, in an e-mail.  “We are disappointed that the court did not grant our
motion to dismiss the civil suit against Mr. Strauss-Kahn,”
Taylor and Mehta said in a statement. “He is determined to
fight the claims brought against him, and we are confident that
he will prevail.”  ‘Well-Reasoned’  Diallo’s attorneys argued that Strauss-Kahn failed to
assert the defense when he was taken into custody and that both
the IMF and the U.S. State Department said in the days after his
arrest that he wasn’t entitled to diplomatic immunity.  “We are extremely pleased with Judge McKeon’s well-
reasoned and articulate decision recognizing that Strauss-Kahn
is not entitled to immunity,” Douglas Wigdor, one of Diallo’s
lawyers, said in an e-mail. “We have said all along that
Strauss-Kahn’s desperate plea for immunity was a tactic designed
to delay these proceedings, and we now look forward to holding
him accountable for the brutal sexual assault that he
committed.”  The case is Diallo v. Strauss-Kahn, 11-307065,  New York 
State Supreme Court (Bronx County).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  