-- Supreme Court’s Favorability Falls to Quarter-Century Low
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-05-01T16:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/supreme-court-s-favorability-falls-to-quarter-century-low.html
The public’s assessment of the U.S.
Supreme Court fell to its lowest level in more than a quarter-
century, according to a poll released less than two months
before the justices are expected to rule on health care and
illegal immigration cases.  The court’s favorability rating dropped to 52 percent, down
six percentage points from 2010 and down 28 points from its peak
of 80 percent in 1994, according to the April 4-15 poll by the
Pew Research Center for the People and the Press.  Support for the court was below 60 percent among
Republicans, Democrats and independents alike. The court has
been a center of attention during  Barack Obama ’s presidency with
the appointments of Justices Sonia Sotomayor and  Elena Kagan  and
the three-day argument in March on the president’s health-care
overhaul.  “On the Republican side, they see Democratic justices
being appointed to the court, and on the Democratic side, there
seems to be at least some effect of the hearings on the health-
care law,” said Carroll Doherty, Pew’s associate director.
“You’re seeing this confluence now of partisan agreement.”  The rating is the lowest for the high court since Pew began
conducting its Supreme Court surveys in 1987. A 1985 Roper poll
put the court’s approval at 64 percent. This year’s Pew poll was
conducted among 1,514 adults nationwide reached by telephone and
has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.9 percentage points.  The slide in the court’s favorability rating accompanies a
broader decline in Americans’ trust in government, Doherty said.
“Washington institutions have lost support in recent years,”
he said.  The justices probably will rule in late June in their two
highest-profile cases this term -- a challenge by 26 states to
the health-care law and a Justice Department effort to overturn
 Arizona ’s illegal-immigration crackdown.  Among supporters of the health-care law, 52 percent held a
favorable view of the court, compared with 55 percent for
opponents of the law, the poll found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  