-- Swaps Rules to Curb Risk Need Work, ISDA's O'Connor Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-05-01T18:48:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/swaps-rules-cut-risks-as-others-need-work-isda-s-o-connor-says.html
Reforms to the $708 trillion private
 derivatives market  are reducing  systemic risk  while some rules
need more work before being implemented, said  Stephen O’Connor ,
chairman of the  International Swaps and Derivatives Association .  “There is today serious concern about some of the other
policies underway” related to the Dodd Frank Act that toughens
oversight of the market, O’Connor,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s global head
of over-the-counter client clearing, said at ISDA’s annual
meeting today in Chicago. He cited differences between new swaps
rules in  Europe  and the U.S., known as extraterritoriality, and
mandated electronic execution for swaps as issues the industry
wants to address.  Banks,  hedge funds  and asset managers active in the over-
the-counter  derivatives market  are adapting to changes mandated
by the Dodd Frank Act passed by Congress in 2010, including a
requirement to process most swaps with a clearinghouse to cut
counterparty risk. While embracing measures to adopt clearing,
the industry group has opposed requirements that any cleared
swap be traded on exchanges or similar electronic systems.  “There’s little to suggest it will benefit users,”
O’Connor said, referring to ISDA research that found that
requiring electronic trading would reduce trading and increase
the gap in prices to buy and sell swaps.  Profit Center  A proposal by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission that
traders get a minimum of five price quotes before a transaction
“needs further consideration,” O’Connor said. Many bank swaps
customers “are opposed to this since excessive inquiry might
itself stimulate an adverse price move,” he said.  The reforms are aimed at one of Wall Street’s largest
profit centers. The largest dealers make a collective $30
billion a year by executing fixed-income swaps, such as for
interest rate and credit risk, with their customers, compared
with $3 billion to $5 billion a year from trading fixed-income
futures, according to consulting firm  Oliver Wyman .  “Trading has been an extremely profitable business for the
banks,”  Luigi Zingales , a professor of entrepreneurship and
finance at the  University of Chicago , said during a panel
discussion at the conference. The small number of dealer banks
that control the swaps market makes it difficult to have
effective competition, he said.  “There is gigantic opposition to moving to more
transparency” because it reduces profit margins, he said.  Systemic Risk  The Federal Reserve is tasked with monitoring the health of
the economy, said  Patrick Parkinson , the former director of the
Fed’s Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation.  “Obviously the experience from 2007 and forward indicated
none of us were completely successful,” he said. It was
“completely understandable” that Congress created the
stability council after regulators missed risks from American
International Group Inc. and monoline insurers, he said.  Under a provision of Dodd Frank, the Financial Stability
Oversight Council was created to monitor and identify risks to
the U.S. financial system, including the Office of Financial
Research. Recognizing large risks to the economy ahead of time
is a challenge, said Lars Peter Hansen, a finance professor at
the University of  Chicago .  “Do we know how to do it yet? It’s not 100 percent clear
we know how to define” systemic risk, he said during the panel
discussion. He alluded to Potter Stewart, the U.S. Supreme Court
justice, who defined pornography as something he knew when he
saw it.  Margin Terms  The CFTC has completed 100 rules out of a total 400 to cut
risks in the market, O’Connor said. The industry lowered
systemic risk by adopting clearing ahead of regulations and
through collateral agreements that protect against counterparty
losses, O’Connor said.  “ISDA strongly supports clearing requirements but wants to
make sure the implementation is done right,” he said in opening
remarks at the conference. “We don’t want to see a race to the
bottom on margin terms,” or fragmentation of clearinghouses
that will make the market less stable, he said.  Dodd Frank has made clearinghouses another entity that is
too big to fail that includes a  Federal Reserve  option to lend
to the central counterparties in times of stress, said Mark Brickell, chief executive officer of Blackbird Holdings Inc.,
which provides an electronic trading system for derivatives, and
former chairman of ISDA.  “It is a great leap of faith” to increase the number of
too big to fail institutions, he said during the panel
discussion.  O’Connor was appointed as ISDA chairman a year ago, “a
time of significant change in our markets and our firms,” he
said. “Life as we know it will change.”  ISDA, the lobbying and industry group for swaps users, has
more than 800 members in 58 countries, O’Connor said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in  New York  at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 