-- U.K. Factories Weaken as World Relies on China Growth
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-05-01T15:20:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/u-k-factory-index-falls-more-than-forecast-on-export-slump-1-.html
A U.K.  manufacturing index  fell more
than economists forecast in April to show its weakest growth
this year as export orders declined the most since May 2009.  A gauge of  factory output , based on a survey by  Markit
Economics  and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply,
dropped to 50.5 from a revised 51.9 in March, Markit said on its
website today. The median forecast of 27 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey  was for a decline to 51.5 from an initial
estimate of 52.1 in March. A reading above 50 indicates growth.  Bank of England  officials will decide on May 10 whether to
extend stimulus amid conflicting signals on the economy. While
Britain is in its first  double-dip recession  since the 1970s,
rising oil prices threaten to stoke an inflation rate in its
third year above target. Factory output, which accounts for
about 10 percent of gross domestic product, is being crimped as
the euro-area debt crisis hits export demand.  “Manufacturers reported a slowdown in activity,
characteristic of continued problems and poorer  consumer
confidence  across the  euro zone ,” CIPS Chief Executive Officer
 David Noble  said in the report. Also, an “easing of new orders
from the U.S. and  Asia  is perhaps even more worrying as a
potential risk to continued growth, as these have helped to
balance out weaker demand in recent months.”  The pound declined against the dollar and was trading at
$1.6221 as of 4:17 p.m. in London, down 0.1 percent on the day.
The yield on the 10-year U.K. government bond fell 1 basis point
and was at 2.11 percent.  U.S. Expansion  U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded in April at the
fastest pace in 10 months. The Institute for Supply Management’s
 factory index  climbed to 54.8 last month, exceeding the most
optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey, from 53.4 in
March, the Tempe, Arizona-based group’s report showed today. The
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey called for a drop to 53.  China ’s manufacturing expanded for a fifth month in April,
reducing pressure on policy makers to open the taps on credit in
the world’s second-largest economy. The Purchasing Managers’
Index rose to 53.3 from 53.1 in March, China’s statistics bureau
and logistics federation said in a statement today. That’s the
highest reading in a year and compares with the 53.6 median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of 27 economists.  April’s U.K. slowdown was centered on producers of  consumer
goods , Markit said. Manufacturers, under pressure from rising
energy costs, raised prices at their fastest pace in seven
months.  Today’s factory data starts a string of reports on U.K.
economic activity,  consumer credit  and  house prices  that will
set the scene for the monthly Bank of England decision.  BOE Decision  The Monetary Policy Committee led by Governor  Mervyn King 
will gather next week to determine whether to expand so-called
quantitative easing or halt it at 325 billion pounds ($526
billion). They will start their two-day policy meeting on the
afternoon of May 9 and announce the decision at noon the
following day.  While GDP has fallen for the past two quarters, consumer-
price growth accelerated in March for the first time in six
months to an annual 3.5 percent. Inflation has been above the
central bank’s 2 percent target every month since December 2009.  King is due to speak in  London  tomorrow when he delivers a
public lecture hosted by the British Broadcasting Corp. at 9
p.m. He will also take questions from the audience.  The services and construction reports this week may point
to a slowdown in those industries. Markit’s index of services,
the largest part of the economy, will probably decline to 54.1
from 55.3, while its construction measure will also fall,
economists said in separate surveys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  