-- Rajaratnam Wiretaps Are ‘Crucial’ for Gupta Jury, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-05-02T00:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/u-s-seeks-to-use-rajaratnam-wiretaps-against-gupta-at-trial-1-.html
U.S. prosecutors are trying to convict
former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  on insider
trading charges using wiretapped phone conversations in which he
wasn’t a participant.  The U.S. says three recordings of Galleon Group LLC co-
founder  Raj Rajaratnam  speaking with his colleagues and
employees should be allowed as evidence against Gupta at his
trial scheduled for May 21, because the  fund manager  was a co-
conspirator in the insider-trading scheme. The conversations
highlight how Rajaratnam advanced the scheme and show that he
found Gupta’s tips reliable to trade on, prosecutors said.  The three wiretaps include an excerpt from a September 2008
recording never before made public, in which Rajaratnam tells
his trader,  Ian Horowitz , that he had previously shared
“everything” about other illegal tips with a fellow Galleon
fund manager, prosecutors said.  “The importance of this evidence cannot be overstated,”
Assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Richard Tarlowe said
in court papers.  “Rajaratnam’s recorded statements in the subsequent
wiretapped calls with Horowitz provide crucial direct evidence
that Gupta tipped Rajaratnam during their unrecorded phone
conversations and Rajaratnam purchased Goldman stock in the
final minutes of the trading day on the basis of that tip,” the
prosecutors said.  Gupta’s Defense  Gupta is accused of leaking illegal tips to Rajaratnam
about the bank as well as  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , where Gupta was
also a director. Gupta has pleaded not guilty to six counts of
securities fraud and one count of conspiracy.  His lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has said at pretrial hearings
that the “wrong man” is on trial in the case and that others,
including an unidentified Goldman Sachs executive, leaked
Rajaratnam inside information, including tips about  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
and  Intel Corp. (INTC)   Prosecutors allege that Gupta told Rajaratnam on Sept. 23,
2008, that  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  was about to invest $5
billion in New York-based Goldman Sachs, a tip that allowed
Galleon to earn $43 million.  A month later, Galleon avoided losses on Goldman Sachs,
after Gupta was told during a board meeting that the company had
lost almost $2 a share, worse than Wall Street’s expectations,
prosecutors said.  The U.S. disclosed new portions of a Sept. 24, 2008, call
with Horowitz, in which Rajaratnam explains how he shared inside
information with Horowitz and another Galleon fund manager.  Horowitz, who hasn’t been charged with wrongdoing, has been
described by the prosecutors as an unindicted coconspirator. In
yesterday’s filing, prosecutors identified the senior portfolio
manager whom Rajaratnam refers to as “Leon” as former Galleon
fund manager Leon Shaulov.  ‘Tell Him Everything’  “Leon was very upset,” Rajaratnam told Horowitz on the
call, which the government says refers to Shaulov being angry
that the fund manager didn’t share with him Gupta’s tip about
 Berkshire Hathaway. (BRK/B)   “Look, I’ve kept my mouth shut when he gave me WaMu,”
Rajaratnam said. “I tell him everything, you know? AMD, IBM,
everything, right?”  Prosecutors say a “reasonable person” could infer that
comment is a reference to insider trading in Seattle-based
 Washington Mutual  Inc., as well as Sunnyvale, California-based
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and Armonk, New York-based
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)   Shaulov didn’t return a message left at his office with an
assistant seeking comment about prosecutors having identified
him as a participant in a wiretapped recording.  In a related case filed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission against Gupta and Rajaratnam, Shaulov was named as
someone regulators sought to question under oath before trial.
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who’s presiding over both
criminal and civil cases, granted the request.  Prosecutors said the Rajaratnam wiretaps are necessary
because they don’t have recordings of Gupta passing tips to
Rajaratnam in September and October 2008. The government didn’t
have a wiretap on the fund manager’s work phone or any of
Gupta’s telephones, prosecutors said.  The government seeks to play at trial calls intercepted by
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  of Rajaratnam speaking on
his mobile phone to Galleon colleagues, Horowitz and David Lau.  Gupta’s Conversations  “Rajaratnam’s statements in these three recorded
conversations are essential evidence of the  insider trading 
charges against Gupta in this case,” Brodsky and Tarlowe said
in court papers. “There are no recorded conversations between
Gupta and Rajaratnam on Sept. 23 and Oct. 23 in which Gupta is
alleged to have tipped Rajaratnam.”  The recordings are “particularly significant in light of
Gupta’s apparent defenses that someone at Goldman other than
Gupta tipped Rajaratnam at some other time and there is doubt
about whether Rajaratnam and Gupta actually spoke on Sept. 23,
2008, minutes before the market closed.”  Rajaratnam, who is serving an 11-year prison sentence, is
unavailable as a witness and there were no other participants in
his conversations with Gupta, prosecutors said. Rajaratnam was
convicted after trial last year of trading on illegal tips
involving AMD and IBM, among other stocks. He wasn’t accused of
insider trading involving Washington Mutual.  Naftalis declined to comment on the government’s request to
use the wiretaps. Gupta lost an earlier bid to exclude wiretaps
in March when Rakoff ruled that they are admissible as evidence
in  securities fraud  cases. Naftalis hasn’t yet filed a response
to the specific Rajaratnam wiretaps that prosecutors want to use
at trial.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  