-- U.S. EPA Targets Third Company in Biodiesel Fraud Case
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-05-01T19:43:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/u-s-epa-targets-third-company-in-biodiesel-fraud-case.html
A Houston company was accused of
selling refiners and brokers fraudulent U.S. credits for
biodiesel, further roiling a $2 billion market policed by the
Environmental Protection Agency.  Green Diesel LLC allegedly  sold  more than 60 million
invalid clean-fuel credits in 2010 and 2011, the agency said in
a  notice  sent to the company yesterday. The credits were
generated without producing the required fuel to match, the
agency said.  “The fraud is no longer minor by anyone’s standards,”
said Eric Rubury, president of OceanConnect LLC, a broker for
the credits that sued the EPA over its handling of the program.
“This could now be in the hundreds of millions of dollars for
the industry, unless the EPA recognizes the exceptional nature
of this issue.”  Under federal law, refiners such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and
ConocoPhillips must produce 1 billion gallons of biodiesel
annually, with their contribution determined by their share of
the fuel market. Under rules set up by the EPA, instead of
making the fuel themselves, those refiners can buy credits from
other producers to fulfill their obligations.  Seized-Up Market  The market in credits for the cleaner fuel seized up after
federal prosecutors last year accused Clean Green Fuels LLC of
selling 32 million fraudulent certificates. A second company,
Absolute Fuels LLC, was issued a notice of violation in February
for selling 48 million bogus certificates.  Each credit, or Renewable Identification Number, is worth
more than $1. Philip Rivkin, the chief executive officer of
Green Diesel, didn’t return a telephone message today.  Green Diesel voluntarily produced certain records in August
2011 and January 2012 to the EPA, and “will continue to
cooperate with the EPA in this matter,” the company said in a
statement provided via e-mail by its lawyer in the matter,
Richard Roper. “Green Diesel looks forward to meeting with EPA
to resolve this matter.”  The fraud investigations also have ensnared buyers of the
credits, as 30 refiners settled with the EPA without admitting
wrongdoing. Exxon agreed to pay a U.S. fine of $165,407;
 ConocoPhillips (COP) , $250,000, and a unit of  BP Plc (BP/) , $350,000. The
EPA says those companies also need to buy replacements for any
fraudulent credits, which means purchasers of the credits would
have to pay millions of dollars more to replace their RINs.  If EPA sticks to that position, “honest market
participants” will be “made victims twice,” Rubury said today
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  