-- UBS Seeks Bids for $1.5 Billion Commercial-Mortgage CDOs
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-05-01T18:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ubs-seeking-bids-for-1-5-billion-in-commercial-mortgage-cdos.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  is seeking to unload $1.5
billion in collateralized debt obligations tied to commercial
real estate following the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York ’s
sale of similar securities last week.  Bids are due May 9, said Torie Von Alt, a spokeswoman for
the bank who declined to comment further. The Zurich-based
lender is circulating the list of securities through other
dealers, according to three people familiar with the offering
who declined to be identified because it’s not public.  The Fed auctioned off $7.5 billion in CDOs backed by
commercial mortgages assumed in the 2008 rescue of American
International Group Inc. last week, sparking a bidding war
between three teams of Wall Street banks. Barclays Plc and
Deutsche Bank AG won the portfolio, representing the largest
individual trade in the history of the $600 billion commercial-
mortgage bond market.  “The fact that the Fed was able to sell into strong demand
could probably lead others to strike while the iron is hot,”
said Alan Todd, a commercial-mortgage debt analyst at Bank of
America Corp.  The winning banks probably paid a price of about 67 cents
on the dollar, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said in an April 27
report. That translates into about $5 billion compared with the
$4.2 billion valuation the Fed assigned to the portfolio in
December, according to the district bank’s website.  Fed Provided Transparency  “The Fed’s auction provided transparency on the depth of
demand for this market,” said Leo Huang an investment manager
overseeing commercial real-estate debt at Ellington Management
Group LLC. “Investors will take comfort that this substantial
size of risk cleared and at good levels.”  The CDOs sold by the Fed, dubbed MAX by Deutsche Bank when
they were issued in 2007 and 2008, contained securities of
varying ratings culled from 103 commercial-mortgage bond
offerings. Holdings of about $2.8 billion in so-called AJ
commercial-mortgage securities, many of which have been cut to
junk after being assigned top grades at issuance, spooked the
market on concern that there would not be enough buyers,
Citigroup Inc. analysts said in a report last week.  Prices on that type of commercial mortgage debt vary
widely, with bonds sold at the market’s peak in 2007 trading at
about 65 cents at the start of 2012 before climbing as high as
80 cents prior to the Fed’s announcement, according to Citigroup
analysts led by Jeffrey Berenbaum.  Unsolicited Bids  The market for bonds backed by loans on everything from
skyscrapers to shopping malls had been on hold prior to the
Fed’s sale. Commercial-mortgage debt values slid when the Fed
said April 4 that it was considering selling assets in its
Maiden Lane III portfolio. Relative yields on benchmark
securities narrowed by as much as 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 225 basis points over the swap rate last
week after the sale’s completion, according to the JPMorgan
analysts led by Ed Reardon.  The district bank announced the CDO auction on April 18
after receiving “several” unsolicited bids for the holdings.  UBS (UBS) , facing new requirements from Swiss regulators to
bolster its financial strength, is trying to cut assets to
reduce risk. The bank has targeted a goal of increasing its
capital to 19 percent of assets as calculated under the proposed
rules, from about 11 percent at the end of 2011, according to
the bank’s most recent annual report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 