-- UBS to Pay $27 Million Over SEC Mutual Fund Disclosure Claims
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-05-01T20:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/ubs-to-pay-27-million-over-sec-mutual-fund-disclosure-claims.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  will pay $26.6 million to
resolve U.S. regulatory claims its Puerto Rico-based brokerage
unit sold shares in mutual funds without disclosing that it was
propping up the price of the funds in the secondary market.  UBS Financial Services Inc. of Puerto Rico, starting in
2008, solicited thousands of retail investors, saying a
competitive and liquid secondary market contributed to their
closed-end mutual funds’ performance, the Securities and
Exchange Commission said today in an administrative order that
also named two of the firm’s executives.  When investor demand declined, the brokerage sought to
maintain the illusion of a liquid market by buying shares into
its own inventory from customers who wished to exit the market,
the SEC said. The unit later sold 75 percent of its closed-end
fund inventory to unsuspecting investors, withdrawing its market
price and liquidity support, the agency said.  “UBS  Puerto Rico  denied its closed-end fund customers what
they were entitled to under the law -- accurate price and
liquidity information, and a trading desk that did not advantage
UBS’s trades over those of its customers,” SEC Enforcement
Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement.  The $26.6 million will be placed into a fund for harmed
investors, the SEC said.  “Investors who bought Fund shares during this period and
continue to hold them have made substantial returns over the
past three years,” UBS spokeswoman  Karina Byrne  said in an e-
mailed statement. “We believe that any realized losses incurred
by investors who bought Fund shares through UBS during the
2008/2009 period and sold them were less than $5 million.”  Ferrer, Ortiz  The SEC instituted contested administrative proceedings
against UBS Puerto Rico’s vice chairman and former chief
executive officer Miguel A. Ferrer and its head of capital
markets Carlos J. Ortiz.  A phone call to Melvin Brosterman, Ferrer’s attorney,
wasn’t immediately returned.  Ortiz said in an e-mailed statement that the SEC’s
allegations are “wholly without merit.”  “At all times, I, and the team that I supervise, have been
responsible participants in the secondary market for the Funds
in an effort to maintain an orderly market,” Ortiz said in the
statement. “Any claim by the SEC that Fund investors were
misled or mistreated is unfounded.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  