-- Humana Says U.S. Attorney Asked About Florida Claims
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-05-01T20:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/humana-says-u-s-attorney-asked-about-florida-claims-doctor-pay.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-biggest
provider of private Medicare coverage, said the U.S. Justice
Department is investigating its coding of medical claims from
South Florida doctors and loans made to physician practices.  The U.S. Attorney’s Office in Miami requested documents and
other information from Humana and its affiliates on Jan. 6, the
Louisville, Kentucky-based health insurer said in a regulatory
 filing  yesterday. Humana didn’t say how it responded, and didn’t
respond immediately to a telephone call seeking comment.  Humana last year disclosed its own investigation into
enrollment practices and loans to providers in its Medicare and
Medicaid networks in Florida. The company also faces a whistle-
blower lawsuit alleging its practices in that state violated a
federal anti-kickback statue, according to the filing.  The company said yesterday its internal probe is continuing
and involves “relationships” between some of its  Florida 
employees and Medicare and Medicaid providers, the financial
support of nonprofit or provider centers that enroll Medicare
patients and “financial support” made to doctor practices.  Humana earned 65 percent of its $36.8 billion in  revenue 
last year from providing drug and medical benefits to people on
Medicare, the U.S.-backed insurance plan for the elderly and
disabled. It got 2.6 percent of revenue from Medicaid, the joint
state-federal program for the poor.  Alicia Valle, spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Miami, didn’t return a call seeking comment on the
investigation.  The insurer rose 4.5 percent to $84.33 at the close of  New
York  trading. The shares fell 8.1 percent yesterday, the most in
three years, after the company said first-quarter profit had
dropped 21 percent, missing analyst estimates.  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  of Minnetonka, Minnesota, is the
biggest private Medicare insurer in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  