-- Huntsman to Boost Texas Output on Cheaper Gas Supplies
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-05-01T20:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/huntsman-to-boost-texas-output-on-cheaper-gas-supplies.html
Huntsman Corp. (HUN) , the world’s biggest
maker of textile dyes, plans to increase production of ethylene
and related chemicals in  Texas  and is evaluating additional
expansion projects to take advantage of cheaper natural gas.  Ethylene oxide capacity at Huntsman’s Port Neches, Texas,
plant will rise 25 percent from 1 billion pounds a year, Chief
Executive Officer Peter Huntsman said today in an interview. The
chemical will be used in the manufacture of ingredients used in
soaps, resins and other products. An adjacent ethylene plant
will expand by 50 million to 75 million pounds from 450 million
pounds, he said.  “If you did not see the cheap gas that we see today in
 North America , I doubt very much that this project would be
taking place,” he said in a telephone interview from his
offices in The Woodlands, Texas.  Huntsman, Dow Chemical Co. and Westlake Chemical Co. are
expanding U.S. production after rising gas output from shale
rock helped push domestic prices to a decade low. Cheaper gas is
doubly advantageous for chemical makers, who use it for energy
and as a raw material. Huntsman is evaluating other projects for
the U.S., the CEO said.  “I hope we are in a position here in the next quarter to
announce further expansions based on the competitive raw
material situation,” Huntsman said.  The Port Neches expansions should be operational in 18
months to 24 months, he said.  Rockwood Bid Unlikely  The company, which is based in  Salt Lake City ,  Utah ,
doesn’t plan to build a domestic ethylene plant or join with
other companies on such a project, Peter Huntsman said.  Huntsman also is unlikely to bid for  Rockwood Holdings
Inc. (ROC) ’s titanium-dioxide business because it would be contrary to
its goal of reducing debt, Chief Financial Officer Kimo Esplin
said. Rockwood, which last week said the unit may be sold or
spun off in an initial public offering, may get more than $2
billion for the business in a sale, he said.  “It is unlikely that Huntsman would write a big check for
that business,” Esplin said in the interview. “We are not
going to leverage up.”  Huntsman today posted first-quarter earnings excluding
restructuring costs and other items of 74 cents a share, topping
the 39-cent average estimate of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The shares rose 8.9 percent to $15.42 at the close in  New
York , the biggest gain since Nov. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  