-- Verizon Wireless Airwaves Purchase Review Extended by FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-05-01T21:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/verizon-wireless-airwaves-purchase-review-extended-by-fcc.html
Regulators added 21 days to an
informal time limit for considering  Verizon Wireless ’s proposed
$3.6 billion airwaves purchase from cable providers led by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and Time Warner Cable Inc.  The Federal Communications Commission extended its
nonbinding 180-day clock for finishing its review, according to
a letter  posted  today on the agency’s website. The companies
were slow to provide documents, the FCC said.  The Communications Workers of America asked the agency on
April 20 to halt the review, saying the companies were late in
producing documents that in some cases couldn’t be searched or
read. Verizon and the cable companies  told  the FCC yesterday
they would provide documents in a searchable format.  Verizon, the largest U.S. mobile provider, announced in
December the purchase of unused airwaves from a group led by top
U.S. cable company Comcast and No. 2  Time Warner Cable. (TWC)  The
companies pledged joint marketing.  The accords make allies of cable companies pushing into the
phone business and Verizon Wireless, whose parent has entered
cable’s traditional video business.  Opponents have said the deals would bring less competition
and higher prices. Verizon said the spectrum purchase will give
it airwaves needed to meet soaring demand from smartphones and
data-hungry tablet computers such as Apple Inc.’s iPad.  “This brief extension keeps the review process moving,”
Ed McFadden, a Washington-based Verizon spokesman, said in an
interview.  Reset Clock  The CWA union, which has said that competition creates jobs
for its members, is in contract negotiations with Verizon
Wireless and its parent company,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)   “Today’s FCC decision simply shows that as federal
regulators look more closely at this proposal, the more they are
seeing the potential problems,” Debbie Goldman, CWA’s
telecommunications policy director, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The FCC halted a merger clock for about five weeks last
year as it considered  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed purchase of T-Mobile
USA Inc., a deal that later was scrapped amid regulatory
opposition. The clock for the Verizon-cable deal  stood  at its
103rd day before today’s FCC action, and was set back to 82 days
after the agency sent its letter.  The  Justice Department  is separately considering the
marketing agreements.  Verizon said April 18 it will sell other spectrum licenses
it purchased in 2008 if it can complete the purchase under
scrutiny from the FCC and Justice Department.  The FCC also is examining Verizon Wireless’s proposed
$315 million airwaves purchase and cooperation agreement with
Cox Communications Inc.  Verizon Wireless, based in Basking Ridge,  New Jersey , is 55
percent-owned by Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , based in Newbury,  England .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  