-- LVMH Skips European Austerity Raising Prices for Chinese
-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-05-01T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/lvmh-skips-european-austerity-raising-prices-for-chinese.html
Chinese tourists traveling to  Europe 
to take advantage of savings as much as 50 percent on designer
clothes and accessories are finding fewer bargains.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA (MC)  and its peers are
raising prices to make up for lost business in  China  and lower
profitability outside the country, even if it puts items like
2,270-euro ($3,000)  Lockit handbags  further out of reach for
Europeans whose disposable incomes are shrinking amid austerity.  “You cannot continue to sustain the existing price gaps
that have been a mainstay of the luxury goods industry for the
past 20 or 25 years,” said  Luca Solca , global head of European
equities at CA Cheuvreux, in an interview. “What we expect
 luxury-goods  companies to have to do is progressively close the
pricing gap and, more likely than not, this is going to come
from stepping up prices outside of  Asia .”  With China expected to account for a third of luxury sector
expansion this year, weakening revenue growth there is a risk to
earnings even as the value of sales in  yuan  rises with currency
moves. Earnings before interest and tax as a percentage of
luxury sales is 40 percent in China compared to 25 percent in
Europe, largely because of lower rents, Solca estimates.
Tourists, mainly from Asia, account for between 35 percent and
60 percent of luxury sales in Europe, according to HSBC analyst
 Antoine Belge .  Widening Gap  At Paris-based  Louis Vuitton , currency shifts widened the
price differential between mainland China and  France  to as much
as 47 percent in the first quarter, spurring more Chinese to
shop abroad, according to LVMH Finance Director Jean-Jacques Guiony. While the premium propped up flagging local demand in
Europe, it came at the expense of sales in the world’s second-
largest economy, he said on a conference call last month.  “This will continue to be a feature of the industry this
year unless the group rebalances pricing to discourage parallel
imports,” said Barclays Capital analyst Julian Easthope.  The euro has declined 11 percent against the dollar and 13
percent versus the yuan in the past year.  Demand for LVMH’s products is increasing, defying Europe’s
debt crisis and China’s slowing economy. LVMH and its
competitors would need to raise prices by 3 percent outside of
China to compensate for about 15 percent of mainland Chinese
customers buying their products abroad, Solca said.  Big Spenders  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury goods maker,
reported a similar revenue pattern to Vuitton in the quarter.
Like-for-like sales growth in China slowed to about 20 percent
from more than 30 percent in the previous three months, while
retail sales in Europe were “modestly better,” the London-
based company said April 17.  “It’s the global traveling luxury consumer that is
dominating,” Burberry Chief Financial Officer Stacey Cartwright
said at the time.  Chinese global tax-free spending grew 79 percent in March
from a year earlier, the fastest increase of any nation, making
them the world’s biggest tax-free spenders with 21 percent of
the total, according to tourist shopping specialist  Global Blue .
The products they splurge on the most in Europe are watches,
jewelry and fashion, said Manelik Sfez, head of global corporate
and partner marketing at Global Blue in Nyon,  Switzerland .  Lower prices are the main reason wealthy repeat Chinese
travelers buy abroad, Sfez said. That doesn’t mean they scrimp.
Chinese visitors reported spending an average of 11,000 euros on
shopping per trip to Europe,  Hong Kong  or  Singapore , according
to a recent Global Blue survey.  Preferred Activity  “Shopping is their preferred activity at destination,”
Sfez said in response to e-mailed questions.  Sales to Asian tourists will rise by a mid-teens percentage
this year in the region compared to a mid-single digit decline
for local customers, Belge estimates. Sales of high-end goods
may climb 10 percent in 2012, half last year’s rate, and 9
percent in 2013, he said.  Vuitton, which raised prices 2.5 percent to 3 percent in
Europe in the first quarter, hasn’t decided how it will adjust
its pricing structure further, Guiony said. He doesn’t expect
the shift in business from China to Europe to be permanent.  Luxury companies risk hurting local European demand or
damping other tourist spending in the region if they raise
prices too much, said  Armando Branchini , founder of Milan-based
luxury consultant Intercorporate. Still, a progressive increase
is needed and austerity measures are likely to be main obstacle
to consumption in the region, Solca said.  Unfortunate Combination  “The combination of the two is unfortunate because what
you’ll find is higher prices and at the same time lower
disposable income for domestic European customers,” Solca said.  Lowering prices in China isn’t an alternative and won’t be
until Chinese authorities cut  import duties ,  PPR SA (PP)  Deputy CEO
Jean-Francois Palus told analysts last month. As China cuts
taxes on  consumer goods  this year, Branchini said he expects the
duty on luxury goods eventually to reach between 10 percent and
12 percent compared with 17 percent currently.  LVMH’s first-quarter fashion and leather goods sales in the
Asia Pacific region grew about 10 percent, slowing from 18
percent the last three months of 2011. At Vuitton, where prices
in China are 30 percent more expensive than in the rest of Asia,
sales on the mainland rose less than 10 percent in the quarter,
Guiony said. That contrasts with double-digit growth in sales to
American, Japanese and Chinese consumers globally, he said.  “By no means do we feel that this is a permanent move,”
Guiony said. “Overall, no reason to be pessimistic, but at the
same time, keeping flexibility and agility are the two key words
in any uncertain environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  