-- Wal-Mart Sees Neighborhood Leading U.S. Same-Store Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-05-01T13:15:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wal-mart-sees-neighborhood-leading-u-s-same-store-sales.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s (WMT)  bribery probe
in Mexico poses a potential threat to growth in its
international operations, putting more pressure on the company
to execute its nascent small-store strategy in the U.S.  The world’s largest retailer is chasing consumers quite
unlike its traditional customers. One is Kelli Janczewski, a 32-
year-old health provider relations manager at  Humana Inc. (HUM) ’s
 Chicago  office, who last month popped into a Walmart
Neighborhood Market in Chicago and grabbed a healthy frozen
meal, bananas and discounted candy left over from Easter.  Wal-Mart wants to appeal to urban dwellers like Janczewski
by creating the same appeal in cities that it has in its
traditional markets in suburbs and towns and tap a market of $80
billion a year. To get started, Wal-Mart will open as many as
100 Neighborhood Markets, though it has tried the small store
strategy before without much to show for it.  “That’s always the big question with Wal-Mart: ‘Can they
get the next phase of growth with smaller stores?’” said  David Abella , senior portfolio manager with New York-based Rochdale
Investment Management, which has 38,000 Wal-Mart shares in one
fund. “With Supercenters, they have pretty well saturated the
market.”  U.S. agencies are probing Wal-Mart and the company is
conducting its own review after the  New York  Times reported
April 21 that Wal-Mart’s Mexican unit paid more than $24 million
in bribes to open stores more quickly. The investigations could
prompt executive departures and U.S. penalties and may slow Wal-
Mart’s expansion in  Mexico  and other markets.  Pension Funds  The allegations of a coverup in Mexico yesterday prompted
leaders of  New York City ’s pension funds to say they’ll vote
their company shares against the five Wal-Mart directors who are
standing for re-election at the company’s annual shareholder
meeting next month, New York City Comptroller John C. Liu said
today in a statement.  Wal-Mart’s smaller stores are about one-fifth the size of
its big-box locations. After years of disappointing results at
its small shops, Wal-Mart has lowered costs, boosted sales and
produced better margins at its Neighborhood Markets stores,
setting the stage for expansion.  Wal-Mart, based in Bentonville, Arkansas, still relies
heavily on its 3,029 Supercenters for most of its profit. With
plans to add as many as 150 more this year, there is still room
for Supercenters to gain market share, said Deisha Galberth Barnett, a Wal-Mart spokeswoman.  Fresh Revenue  Still, the push into smaller stores represents a fresh
source of revenue. It could also take market share from grocery
and drugstore chains and defend Wal-Mart’s turf from dollar
stores such as  Dollar General Corp. (DG) ’s, said Bryan Gildenberg, an
analyst with London-based Kantar Retail.  Dollar General  plans to
open 625 new stores this year, according to Bloomberg Data.  Wal-Mart has found out how to make Neighborhood Markets
more profitable since starting them in 2000, said two people
familiar with the project. In the early years, the net margins
for the Neighborhood Markets stores were about 1 percent. Some
of them failed and closed. Now they make about 3 percent.
Supercenters produce about 5.5 percent net margins, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the information is
private.  Along the way, Wal-Mart has learned a few things. The early
Neighborhood Markets were more expensive to build. Wal-Mart
overspent on decor, with touches such as terracotta pots out
front and Tuscan-style entryways. The stores also had equipment
like photo processors and refrigerators and freezers sized for a
Supercenter. All of that resulted in unnecessary spending, the
people said.  Capital Costs  As the company opened more stores, it spent less on decor
and equipment to lower capital costs, the people said.  Wal-Mart also examined how it accounted for profits at the
stores. The company had been booking profits for  prescription
drugs  sold at Neighborhood Markets at the regional level, so the
income went to corporate profit. In May 2010, Wal-Mart started
looking at drug profits on a store-by-store basis and concluded
that Neighborhood markets performed better than they had
thought.  Wal-Mart declined to comment on  capital spending  or
accounting at the store level. The company has seen better
results from Neighborhood Markets, Galberth Barnett said. The
stores have produced “significant improvements in operating
performance over the last two years, with strong returns,” she
said in an e-mail. Neighborhood Markets have boosted same-store
sales in the past “several quarters,” she said.  Same Return  At an investor conference in March, Wal-Mart Chief
Financial Officer  Charles Holley  said that Neighborhood Markets
have “about the same return of a new Supercenter.” He also
said that same-store sales for Neighborhood Markets grew 5
percent last year. That compares to same-store sales growth of
just 0.3 percent at Wal-Mart’s U.S. stores, according to company
regulatory filings.  Neighborhood Markets benefit from focusing on food, where
Wal-Mart is strong. Meanwhile, Wal-Mart is losing ground in
general merchandise to the likes of  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  Since 2008,
Wal-Mart’s grocery sales have risen an average of 5.4 percent a
year to $145.3 billion in 2012 and now account for 55 percent of
U.S. sales. During the same time, sales of general merchandise
have fallen every year.  “Wal-Mart has learned to run Neighborhood markets more
effectively,” Gildenberg said. “They found the right mix of
food and non-grocery.”  Shrinking Supercenters  Wal-Mart will find that some products are increasingly sold
online and shrink some Supercenters, Gildenberg said. Meanwhile,
some Neighborhood Markets may add products in certain areas and
get bigger, so the line between Supercenters and small-format
stores starts to blur.  Other retailers have looked to cities for growth, or are
pushing smaller stores.  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  opened its first store
in  Manhattan  in 2004 and a second one later that year. Both are
still open. Wal-Mart rival  Target Corp. (TGT)  plans to open as many as
20 smaller-format stores this year in a similar play to Wal-
Mart’s move.  Wal-Mart’s share of its core market is between 9 percent
and 10 percent, according to Kantar Retail. If Wal-Mart can
match that in cities with its smaller stores, the company could
grow by $80 billion in the U.S., according to research from  UBS
AG. (UBSN)   “Wal-Mart is looking into the future, and eventually the
big box retailer market will be saturated -- then what?,” said
 Cameron Smith , president and CEO of CSA Recruiters, an executive
search firm in Bentonville that works closely with Wal-Mart’s
supplier network.  That’s question investors are asking. Wal-Mart’s stock has
declined 1.4 percent so far this year, compared to an 11 percent
gain in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)   “It’s hard to move the needle,” Abella said. “The core
Wal-Mart investor doesn’t believe it yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  