-- Walker Raises $13 Million Topping Foes in Recall Election
-- B y   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-05-01T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/walker-raises-13-million-topping-foes-in-recall-election.html
Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ’s
campaign reported collecting $13.2 million this year to contest
a June 5 recall vote, more than seven times the amount brought
in by his two major opponents.  Democrats Kathleen Falk and  Milwaukee  Mayor Tom Barrett
raised a combined $1.8 million in the Jan. 1 through April 23
reporting period, according to their campaigns. Estimated
spending on the vote, only the third recall of a U.S. governor,
may range from $60 million to $80 million by all the candidates
and supporters. Walker, a Republican, has collected more than
$25 million since January 2011, according to his campaign.  The recall has drawn national attention from the Republican
and Democratic parties as well as unions and their opponents in
what has become a warm-up for the presidential campaign.  “We continue to see strong grassroots support for Governor
Walker,” Ciara Matthews, a spokeswoman, said yesterday in a
statement from the campaign in Madison, the state capital.  New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  is scheduled to stump
for Walker, 44, in suburban Milwaukee today.  Walker’s filing drew a quick response from Falk, a former
Dane County executive who is running in the May 8 primary for
the right to challenge the governor in June. The county
encompasses Madison.  “While Wisconsin loses more jobs than any other state,
Governor Walker has spent his time trying to save his own job,”
Falk, 60, said in a statement. She has collected $977,059,
according to her campaign.  Midwestern Unrest  The nonpartisan Wisconsin Democracy Campaign has said the
recall fight may cost more than twice the $37.4 million that
Walker and his Democratic opponent, Barrett, together spent on
the 2010 election. Barrett, 58, reported receiving $830,000,
including $750,000 since March 30, when he entered the primary.  Wisconsin  has been in turmoil since February 2011, when
protests erupted after Walker and the Republican-dominated
Legislature imposed collective-bargaining restrictions on most
public employees. Labor officials accused the state of union-
busting, while Republicans said the limits would help local
governments stay solvent.  In addition to Walker and Lieutenant Governor Rebecca Kleefisch, the state’s Government Accountability Board
authorized recall elections against four Republican senators --
Scott Fitzgerald, Pam Galloway, Van H. Wanggaard and Terry Moulton, to be held June 5. Galloway subsequently resigned.  Two Republicans who supported Walker’s changes were
recalled in August.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Jones at 
 Tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 