-- Wealthy Americans Queue to Give Up Their Passports
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-05-01T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wealthy-americans-queue-to-give-up-passports-in-swiss-capital.html
Rich Americans renouncing U.S.
citizenship rose sevenfold since  UBS AG (UBSN)  whistle-blower Bradley Birkenfeld triggered a crackdown on  tax evasion  four years ago.  About 1,780 expatriates gave up their nationality at U.S.
embassies last year, up from 235 in 2008, according to Andy
Sundberg, secretary of Geneva’s Overseas American Academy,
citing figures from the government’s  Federal Register . The
embassy in Bern, the Swiss capital, redeployed staff to clear a
backlog as Americans queued to relinquish their passports.  The U.S., the only nation in the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development that taxes citizens wherever they
reside, is searching for tax cheats in offshore centers,
including Switzerland, as the government tries to curb the
 budget deficit . Shunned by Swiss and German banks and facing
tougher asset-disclosure rules under the Foreign Account Tax
Compliance Act, more of the estimated 6 million Americans living
overseas are weighing the cost of holding a U.S. passport.  “It started with the fallout from UBS and non-U.S. banks
feeling it’s too risky to deal with Americans abroad,” said
Matthew Ledvina, a U.S. tax lawyer at Anaford AG in Zurich. “It
will increase because Fatca will require banks to track down
people, some of whom will make voluntary disclosures before
renouncing their citizenship.”  Renunciations are higher in  Switzerland  because American
expatriates expect extra scrutiny of their affairs after the UBS
case and as the U.S. probes 11 other Swiss financial firms for
aiding offshore tax evasion, said Martin Naville, head of the
Swiss-American Chamber of Commerce in Zurich.  Absurd Tax Laws  “Most of the real cross-border tax troubles have been
around Switzerland,” Naville said. “We’ve got absurd tax laws
coming into force because of the activities of certain people
who tried to hide money.”  During a 10-minute renunciation ceremony in a booth with
bullet-proof glass windows, embassy staff ask exiting Americans
whether they are acting voluntarily and understand the
implications of giving up their passports. They pay a fee of
$450 to renounce and may incur an “ exit tax ” on unrealized
capital gains if their assets exceed $2 million or their average
annual U.S. tax bill is more than $151,000 during the past five
years.  They receive a certificate within three months, telling
them they are no longer American citizens and entitled to the
services and protection of the U.S. government.  Taxman Cometh  The U.S. embassy in Bern declined to comment on
renunciations. The U.S.  State Department  doesn’t disclose annual
figures, said Elizabeth Finan a spokeswoman for the Washington-
based department, adding that “on average” 1,100 people give
up their citizenship each year.  While the U.S. taxes citizens regardless of where they
reside, overseas income of as much as $95,100 is exempt and
credits help compensate for foreign taxes paid. Americans living
in Switzerland can’t take advantage of the absence of a  capital
gains  tax in the Alpine country or tax deductions allowed on
pension contributions.  “Every dollar you save, you lose to the U.S. tax man,”
said tax lawyer Ledvina. “That’s one reason why people give up
citizenship.”  Americans, who disclose their non-U.S. bank accounts to the
IRS, must file the more expansive  8938 form  beginning this year
that asks for all foreign financial assets, including insurance
contracts, loans and shareholdings in non-U.S. companies.  Imperial Overreach  The  2010 Fatca law  requires banks to withhold 30 percent
from “certain U.S.-connected payments” to some accounts of
American clients who don’t disclose enough information to the
IRS.  “There is incredible frustration at the audacity and
imperial overreach of this law,” said David Kuenzi, a tax
adviser at Thun Financial Advisors in Madison,  Wisconsin ,
referring to Fatca.  Failure to file the 8938 form can result in a fine of as
much as $50,000. Clients can also be penalized half the amount
in an undeclared foreign bank account under the  Banks Secrecy
Act of 1970 .  “It’s a big brother concept,” said Brent Lipschultz, a
partner at New York-based accounting firm EisnerAmper.  The implementation of Fatca from next year comes after UBS,
Switzerland’s largest bank, paid a $780 million penalty in 2009
and handed over data on about 4,700 accounts to settle a tax-
evasion dispute with the U.S. Whistle-blower Birkenfeld was
sentenced to 40 months in a U.S. prison in 2009 after informing
the government and Senate about his American clients at the
Geneva branch of Zurich-based UBS.  Voluntary Disclosures  The UBS settlement led to about 33,000 voluntary
disclosures to  the IRS  in the three years through 2011 and the
repatriation of billions of dollars to the U.S. Swiss banks saw
their offshore North American assets shrink by about 60 percent
to 60 billion Swiss francs ($66 billion) in 2010 from three
years earlier, according to  Boston Consulting Group .  American Citizens Abroad , a Geneva-based organization that
campaigns for taxation based on residency, said the government
doesn’t always distinguish between U.S.-based tax dodgers with
offshore accounts and expatriates that need foreign banking
services.  “The perception is that any American living overseas is
there for a nefarious reason,” said Marylouise Serrato,
executive director of the organization that has members in 90
countries. “There isn’t a deep understanding in the U.S. of why
American citizens would move overseas.”  Civil War Hangover  Taxing Americans resident overseas is a “hangover from the
Civil War” and the introduction of federal income tax in 1861,
according to Jackie Bugnion of American Citizens Abroad. The
rules make it harder for Americans to hold foreign bank accounts
and gain access to mortgages, she said.  German lenders Deutsche Bank AG and HVB Group terminated
the securities accounts of some U.S. citizens following the
announcement of stricter reporting requirements. Swiss
Raiffeisen Group, Switzerland’s third-biggest banking network,
decided at the end of last year to sever ties with U.S.-
domiciled clients and refuse new applications from any American,
said Philippe Thevoz, a spokesman for the St.Gallen,
Switzerland-based firm.  The additional compliance costs for companies to ensure
that Americans they hire are filing the correct U.S. tax returns
and asset-declaration forms are at least $5,000 per person, said
Ledvina. Where individuals are getting their returns prepared,
the expense may amount to $1,500 to $2,000, which is pushing
expatriates to consider giving up citizenship.  “The compliance costs are high and they’re getting
worse,” Ledvina said. “It’s hard to serve two authorities and
the problem for Americans abroad is that the IRS doesn’t care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  