-- Wells Fargo to Gain From Tighter Capital Rules, CFO Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-05-01T20:12:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wells-fargo-to-gain-from-tighter-capital-rules-cfo-says.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-largest
U.S. bank by assets, could have a “competitive advantage” as
bigger lenders are required to hold more funds, Chief Financial
Officer Tim Sloan said.  Regulators are planning to impose capital rules that will
use a sliding scale based on a bank’s size and links to other
lenders in an effort to build buffers against losses. Sloan was
asked today at a conference in Boston whether Wells Fargo might
gain as lenders with larger balance sheets, such as  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , adjust to the standards.  “I think we will have an advantage to any firm that’s
going to have more capital than we do,” Sloan said.  Wells Fargo has grown in U.S. mortgage lending and struck
deals for acquisitions including Merlin Securities LLC and BNP
Paribas SA’s North American energy-lending business after
posting a record annual profit last year. The San Francisco-
based bank, with $1.3 trillion in assets, will continue to be
“selective” in making purchases, Sloan said.  “There’s no question that the environment in  Europe  and
the capital constraints that those financial institutions have
has created an opportunity for us to purchase mostly U.S.,
dollar-denominated assets,” Sloan said.  Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan 
and JPMorgan CEO Jamie Dimon have said that excessive capital
surcharges on the largest banks could limit lending. JPMorgan is
among banks that may face top capital surcharges of 2.5
percentage points, while Bank of America may be required to hold
2 percentage points, according to a provisional list prepared by
global regulators and obtained by Bloomberg News last year.
Wells Fargo may face a surcharge of 1 percentage point,
according to the list.  Pricing Advantage  Dimon, who runs the biggest U.S. lender, with $2.32
trillion in assets, said last month that capital requirements
will make it “prohibitively more expensive” for banks to lend
to consumers with subprime credit scores.  The scope of a bank’s operations, as well as its
underwriting standards, could affect the amount of capital
regulators require it hold, said  Marty Mosby , a Memphis,
Tennessee-based analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC.  “You really only have your own history to use as a
basis,” Mosby said in a phone interview. “To the degree that
Bank of America would’ve had greater losses in a loan category
and more volatility in losses that Wells had, then they would
have to own more capital than Wells.”  Banks with lower capital requirements need to produce less
revenue on a loan to hit profit targets, which could give them a
pricing advantage, Mosby said.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, said the lender has “made significant
progress to strengthen our balance sheet and improve our capital
ratios.”  Wells Fargo  rose  2 percent to $34.09 at 4 p.m. in  New York 
and has gained 24 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 