-- WexTrust Judge ‘Deeply Concerned’ About Fee Requests
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-05-01T21:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wextrust-judge-says-he-s-deeply-concerned-over-fee-requests.html
A judge overseeing the liquidation of
WexTrust Capital LLC, whose founders are serving prison terms
for fraud, told lawyers he’s “deeply concerned” about the
professional fees that have been charged in the case.  Denny Chin, a former federal district judge who continued
to supervise the WexTrust case after his 2010 promotion to the
U.S. appeals court in  New York , told lawyers today that he has
received complaints about the fees from victims of the WexTrust
fraud.  “We have lots and lots of folks who have lost lots and
lots of money,” Chin said during a hearing today in Manhattan.
“I don’t want people becoming rich off of these losses suffered
by others.”  In a report to Chin in February,  Timothy Coleman , the
lawyer appointed as receiver for WexTrust and related companies,
said that the estate had paid about $15.9 million in
professional fees through the end of last year, including $9.4
million to his former  law firm , Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP; $136,350 to
his current firm, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP; and $4.1
million to Deloitte Financial Advisory Services LLP.  Joseph Shereshevsky, 55, and Steven Byers, 49, the founders
of Chicago-based WexTrust, were arrested in August 2008 and
charged with fraud. A lawsuit by the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission claimed they defrauded investors of
$255 million. In 2009, Chin approved a distribution plan under
which Coleman estimated the defrauded victims would receive
between 5 percent and 50 percent of their losses.  Prison Terms  Both men pleaded guilty. Shereshevsky was sentenced to more
than 21 years in prison. Byers got more than 13 years.  The receiver, who was selected to oversee WexTrust in
August 2008, has so far distributed $5 million to about 1,300
victims, he said in the February report. Chin said today that
some of the victims had sent e-mails to his personal account
complaining about the fees. He said he set up a new e-mail
account for victims to communicate with the court.  Several of the victims have complained about what they
consider excessive charges for legal and accounting work.  “There are many objections to the payment of any further
fees,” Chin said today.  Chin was asked today to approve new fee requests, including
those of Freshfields and Deloitte. He said he will rule on the
requests this week.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Byers, 08-cv-7104. U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at    mhytha@bloomberg.net . 