-- White Powder Sent to Banks Was Cornstarch, Police Say
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-05-01T15:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/white-powder-sent-to-banks-was-cornstarch-police-say.html
White powder found in envelopes sent
to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. branches in  New
York  City turned out to be cornstarch, police said.  Seven envelopes containing the powder were delivered
yesterday -- five to Wells Fargo branches, one to a JPMorgan
branch and one addressed to Mayor Michael Bloomberg, said  Paul Browne , a spokesman for the New York City Police Department.  The envelopes contained the powder and messages that
“indicated” a link to today’s May Day demonstrations, Browne
said in an e-mail. All tested negative for anything toxic and
appeared to be designed to frighten mail-room workers, he said.  “This is a reminder that you are not in control,” the
messages read, according to Browne. “Just in case you needed
some incentive to stop working. We have a little surprise for
you.”  The senders “appeared to misjudge” the timing of the
mail, since the letters arrived yesterday instead of today,
Browne said.  The envelopes have “nothing to do with Occupy,” Bill
Dobbs, a member of  Occupy Wall Street ’s press team, said in an
interview at Bryant Park in midtown Manhattan.  “It’s actually distracting people from what May Day events
are about, which is many people here and around the country
giving an outcry for economic justice,” Dobbs said.  Occupy Wall Street held demonstrations today in New York to
protest economic inequality, as did like-minded groups across
the U.S.  Joseph Evangelisti , a spokesman for New York-based
 JPMorgan (JPM) , declined to comment on the envelopes. Ancel Martinez,
a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, didn’t
immediately respond to a call for comment.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  