-- Wilders Rage Against Muslims Channeled in Dutch Euro Voter
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 2012-05-02T08:20:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wilders-rage-against-muslims-channeled-in-netherlands-euro-voter.html
Europe’s financial crisis is helping
Dutch politician  Geert Wilders  drill his anti-euro, anti-Islamic
platform deeper into the mainstream.  The bleached-blond Freedom Party leader brought down the
government on April 21 when he refused to support budget cuts
proposed by Prime Minister  Mark Rutte . Now Wilders, who rose to
international prominence in 2008 with his movie denouncing
Islam, plans to turn September’s elections into a vote on Dutch
attitudes about Europe and the single currency.  As the euro area faces up to recession and the highest
unemployment in 14 years, and bailout fatigue builds even in
northern countries such as the Netherlands, Wilders finds
himself riding the crest of a wave of opposition to austerity.  “Wilders suddenly feels that he’s on the right side of
history,”  Jan Techau , director of the Brussels-based European
Center of Endowment for International Peace, said in an April 25
interview. “The crisis has given everybody a very good vent to
let things out.”  Wilders, 48, whose latest book was released yesterday in
 New York , is at the nexus of a European movement. Marine Le Pen’s anti-euro, anti-immigrant National Front Party got a
record 17.9 percent of the vote on April 22 in the first round
of  France ’s presidential election. At least two parties with
similar views are poised to enter parliament in  Greece  after the
May 6 ballot.  Curb Islam  Wilders won about 1.5 million Dutch votes to place third at
the last election in 2010. His platform included a call to curb
the influence of Islam in the  Netherlands , home to 850,000
Muslims out of a population of about 16.3 million, according to
the latest available figures from 2006.  After the election, Wilders helped Rutte’s Liberal minority
administration pass laws. That was until last month when Wilders
balked at plans for higher health-care contributions and reforms
affecting the age of eligibility for state pensions.  Wilders said the Netherlands should decide budget policy,
not lawmakers in Brussels. While Rutte managed to push through
budget measures to meet the European Union’s April 30 deadline
without Wilders’s support, his government fell and new elections
were called for Sept. 12.  The latest poll, taken April 27 after the caretaker
government and opposition agreed on austerity measures,
suggested Wilders’s  Freedom Party  would drop to 17 seats from
the 24 seats it won in the 150-member parliament in the 2010
elections. Almost half of respondents to a Dutch poll said
Wilders was to blame for the failed budget talks, according to a
poll released April 22 by Maurice de Hond and No Ties BV.  Yield Spread  Investors demanded 79 basis points of  extra yield  to lend
to the Netherlands for 10 years than to Germany on April 23
after Rutte’s government collapsed, the highest premium in more
than three years, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The gap was
57 basis points as of 9:51 a.m. London time today. Both Germany
and the Netherlands are rated AAA by  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service.  “The basic instinct of Wilders has always been anti-EU and
anti-euro, even though his main, big aura of anti-Islam leads
many people to overlook this,” Shada Islam, an analyst at the
Friends of  Europe  policy-advisory group in Brussels, said in an
interview. “He’s thus able to attract a bigger swath of voters
who might otherwise be repelled by his xenophobia.”  Wilders, born in 1963 in the southern Dutch city of Venlo,
started his political career as a member of the City Council of
Utrecht in 1997, joining parliament for Rutte’s  Liberal Party  in
1998. He left in 2004 to found his own political organization
and campaign against immigrants and Muslim culture.  Amsterdam Acquittal  He was acquitted last year by an Amsterdam court of charges
that he made remarks defaming Muslims. Wilders had called the
Koran “fascist” and compared it to  Adolf Hitler ’s Mein Kampf.
In his 2008 film “Fitna,” he called upon Muslims to rip out
“hate-preaching” verses from the Koran. The movie led to
protests in Islamic-majority countries, including Indonesia and
 Pakistan , and prompted calls for a boycott of Dutch products.  His latest book, “Marked for Death: Islam’s War Against
the West and Me,” is being published by Washington-based
Regnery Publishing Inc.  While he talked more about Islam than the EU at previous
elections, Wilders makes no secret of his intentions for the
national vote that’s scheduled for September.  “The elections will become one big referendum about
Brussels, the European Union, our own sovereignty and the
preservation of it,” he said during an April 24 speech in
parliament. “Either we choose for the Netherlands, or we give
in to bureaucrats from Brussels.”  Neither Wilders nor the press department of the Freedom
Party responded to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment.  Unemployment Rate  The $800 billion Dutch economy, the fifth largest in the
euro area, entered its second recession in three years during
the second half of last year.  House prices  have fallen more than
10 percent since 2008. While unemployment is less than half the
euro-area average, it rose to 5 percent in March from 4.1
percent last June, according to  Eurostat .  Unemployment among non-western European foreigners living
in the Netherlands was about 13 percent in 2011, compared with 4
percent for native Dutch citizens, according to figures provided
by the  Central Bureau of Statistics , or CBS.  Standard & Poor’s changed its outlook on the Netherlands on
Jan. 13 to negative, saying it sees at least a one-in-three
chance that the country will lose its top grade in 2012 or 2013
should the economy deteriorate further.  ABN Amro Takeover  “We’re having an enormous financial meltdown, an
existential crisis in the European Union,” said Ewald Engelen,
professor of financial geography at the University of Amsterdam.
“We have had takeovers of big banks and the break-up of them,
and now we simply don’t know anymore.”  ABN Amro Holding NV, the country’s biggest bank, was
acquired in 2007 for almost 72 billion euros ($95 billion) by
three competitors, a year before Europe and the U.S. were
engulfed in a financial crisis.  Dutch sea-faring prowess and trading instincts built the
nation into one of the biggest mercantile powers of the 17th
century, with ships plying trade routes to  Southeast Asia , the
South African Cape and New Amsterdam, now  Manhattan , to source
goods from spices to tobacco. The Netherlands remains the euro-
area’s second biggest exporter after eastern neighbor  Germany ,
and is home to Rotterdam, Europe’s biggest port.  The discovery in 1959 of Slochteren, the biggest mainland
 gas field  in Europe and what was to become the largest generator
of revenue in Dutch history, helped fuel the liberal attitudes
of the 1970s, when Amsterdam became known for its tolerance of
cannabis consumption in cafes and prostitution.  ‘Inward Looking’  The Netherlands is no longer perceived “as a progressive
nation that always was a step ahead on a lot of issues,” said
Henk te Velde, a professor of Dutch history at Leiden
University. “That’s over and I don’t think it will return
quickly. We’ve become more inward looking.”  Wilders is seeking to present himself “as the one who
defends pensioners and the poor against this horrible Europe and
its austerity demands,” said  Andre Krouwel , an associate
professor of political science at VU University in Amsterdam.  It’s a political balancing act he may be unable to repeat,
as having forced the collapse of one government, parties will be
unwilling to grant him the same power again, said Kees Aarts, a
professor of political science at the University of Twente.  Whatever the outcome of the next election, the Netherlands
that was “fundamentally self-assured with itself, its wealth
and its tolerance, is the Holland of the past,” said Techau of
the European Center of Endowment for International Peace.  “The rise of Wilders is testimony to the high level of
fear in Western societies,” Techau said. “Either the EU is
going to have a big wave of reforms or we’re going to have a big
wave of protests.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  