-- Wolverine, Golden Gate to Buy Collective Brands
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-05-01T14:11:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-05-01/wolverine-golden-gate-to-buy-collective-brands.html
Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW) , Golden Gate
Capital and Blum Capital Partners agreed to buy  Collective
Brands Inc. (PSS)  and split up the company’s businesses in a
transaction valued at about $2 billion including debt.  The cash offer is $21.75 a share and may close in the third
quarter or early fourth quarter, the companies said today in a
statement. The equity value of the deal would be about $1.32
billion, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wolverine, owner of the Merrell and Hush Puppies shoe
brands, will gain Collective’s wholesale and retail operations
of the Sperry Top-Sider, Saucony, Stride Rite and Keds brands.
Blum Capital and Golden Gate, the San Francisco private-equity
firm whose consumer investments have included Eddie Bauer and
California Pizza Kitchen, will jointly acquire the operations of
Payless ShoeSource and Collective Licensing International, which
will operate as a standalone company.  There have been more than 100 apparel and shoe retailer
takeovers in the U.S. in the past decade, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The median buyers paid, based on 16
similar deals in that period, was 7.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Bloomberg data
show. Wolverine and its partners are offering 15 times Ebitda
for Collective Brands.  Wolverine, based in Rockford,  Michigan , fell 2.9 percent to
$40.72 at 9:48 a.m. in  New York . Topeka, Kansas-based Collective
Brands rose 1.9 percent to $21.16.  Shut Stores  Collective said after reporting a $35 million loss in
August that it would review strategic alternatives and shut 475
stores in the following three years. The company’s loss for the
year ended Jan. 28 was $164.5 million compared with a $112.8
million profit a year earlier.  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007. Its retail
operations, which included about 3,500 Payless ShoeSource
outlets in the U.S. last fiscal year, accounted for about 78
percent of revenue, according to a filing with the Securities
and Exchange Commission. The remainder came from its wholesale
business, which supplies Saucony, Sperry Top-Sider, Stride Rite
and Keds shoes to retailers.  Wolverine and its partners obtained financing commitments
from JPMorgan Chase & Co. and divisions of Wells Fargo & Co.  Perella Weinberg Partners LP provided financial advice to
Collective Brands, while Sullivan & Cromwell LLP acted as legal
adviser. Wolverine received financial advice from Robert W.
Baird & Co. and legal counsel from Barnes & Thornburg LLP.
Kirkland & Ellis LLP gave legal advice to Blum and  Golden Gate .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  