-- ‘Heavy Lifting’ Looms as China Rate Below Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-09T09:29:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/-heavy-lifting-to-come-as-china-leaves-deposit-rate-below-inflation-pace.html
  China ’s central bank will likely need
to increase  interest rates  further in coming months as the three
moves since mid-October leave household wealth being eroded by
accelerating inflation.  The People’s Bank of China yesterday raised the one-year
lending rate by a quarter point to 6.06 percent and the one-year
deposit rate an equivalent amount to 3 percent. The deposit rate
remains almost 2 percentage points less than the pace of
consumer-price gains, giving savers an incentive to buy goods
and assets.  “There is still a substantial amount of heavy lifting to
do in terms of rates -- at this stage of the cycle, the fact
that we still have negative real rates is quite alarming,” said  Glenn Maguire , chief Asia economist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong  and a former adviser to  Australia ’s government.  Premier Wen Jiabao’s government has yet to return rates to
pre-crisis levels, seeking to sustain the economy’s rebound to
growth of about 10 percent. With overheating a danger in the
first half of the year, policy makers are likely to raise their
benchmarks further, order banks to set aside more cash as
reserves and let the yuan appreciate to stem price pressures,  Wang Qing , a Morgan Stanley economist in Hong Kong, wrote in a
note yesterday.  Yuan Climbs  Interest-rate swaps jumped. The benchmark Shanghai
Composite Index of stocks fell 0.9 percent. The yuan closed
unchanged at 6.5938 per dollar in Shanghai, after earlier
advancing as much as 0.2 percent.  “The economy has been growing too fast” and policy makers
are “behind the curve,”  Andy Xie , an independent economist who
previously worked for Morgan Stanley, told Bloomberg Television
in Hong Kong today.  China’s rates remain 2.5 percentage points lower than they
should be amid rising labor, energy and food costs and a “huge
bubble” in the  property market , he said.  The central bank moved on the last day of a week-long
holiday and before a report next week that may show consumer
prices rose 5.3 percent in January, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  That pace is still slower than the most recent inflation
rates in Group of 20 nations including  Brazil ,  Russia , India and
Argentina, where consumer prices rose 10.9 percent in December
from a year earlier.  Extra ‘Anxiety’  “A rate rise was expected, but given they delayed to the
end of Chinese New Year, it created anxiety over the potential
severity,” said  Gavin Parry , managing director of Parry
International Trading Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Now that uncertainty
is removed, the markets can focus on the January trade, and the
producer prices and consumer-price data next week.”  Government figures expected next week are also forecast to
show export growth accelerated in January and producer prices
advanced at a faster pace, according to Bloomberg surveys.    Shanghai ’s stock index has lost 5.9 percent over the past
year, in part on concern at the impact of policy makers’ efforts
to defuse a property-market bubble after record lending. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 21 percent in that time by
comparison.  A drought that’s threatening grain output and a New Year
surge in lending are adding to inflation risks after money
supply jumped more than 50 percent in two years. Economic growth
accelerated in the fourth quarter to a 9.8 percent annual pace.  Premier’s Campaign  Besides increases in rates and banks’ reserve requirements,
Wen’s campaign against inflation spans sales of state-food
reserves, subsidies for low-income earners, and crackdowns on
speculation and hoarding.  China’s 0.75 percentage point of increases in one-year
rates since the global financial crisis compare with  India 
raising borrowing costs seven times for a total of 1.75
percentage points. In  South Korea , where policy makers meet this
week to decide on rates, borrowing costs climbed 0.75 percentage
point so far.    Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist for BNP Paribas, said
yesterday that he expected “accelerated tightening,” with
rates rising by as much as another 1.5 percentage points. Before
the financial crisis, the one-year lending rate was 7.47 percent,
1.41 percentage points higher than the level taking effect today.  In yesterday’s move, the central bank raised long-term
rates for deposits by more than for loans. For savers, the
increase was as much as 45 basis points, for five-year deposits.  McDonald’s, Starbucks  “The goal is to encourage savers to keep their money in
bank deposits rather than shifting to equities or property,”
said Mark Williams, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd.  Companies from Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. to Starbucks Corp.
and  McDonald’s Corp . have raised prices. While wages are also
climbing, Chinese consumers are more concerned about inflation
than at any time in the past decade, according to a central bank
survey released in December.  China’s government aims to hold inflation at 4 percent this
year, state broadcaster CCTV reported in December. Officials
also want to limit the risk of property bubbles in an economy
awash with cash.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s biggest,
climbed by a record $199 billion in the fourth quarter to $2.85
trillion, and banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion)
of new loans last year, exceeding the government’s targeted
maximum of 7.5 trillion yuan.  ‘Ugly’ Number  New lending may have surged to 1.2 trillion yuan in January,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. In December, the amount was only 481 billion yuan, a
difference that highlights a pattern of banks lending more at
the start of each year.  The government knows January’s inflation number will “look
ugly” and wants to be seen as acting in the lead-up to the
annual meeting of the National People’s Congress, the country’s
lawmaking body, in early March, said  Ma Jun , Deutsche Bank AG’s
chief China economist.  Inflation is largely being driven by food costs. China’s
State Council said it would do more to ensure stable grain
production, including by raising minimum purchase prices for
rice, state radio reported today.  Drought hitting parts of the country may cut grain output
and undermine efforts to stabilize prices, Premier Wen said last
week.  Last month, a jump in  consumer spending  ahead of the Lunar
New Year holiday and bad weather that damaged crops may have
contributed to a higher inflation reading.  --Li Yanping, Shamim Adam, with assistance from Darren Boey,  Michael Munoz ,  Jay Wang , Kristine Aquino and Susan Li. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Josh Fellman.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  