-- `Mini-Revolt' Confronts Republicans as U.S. Lawmakers Ready Spending Cuts
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2011-02-08T17:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/-mini-revolt-confronts-republicans-as-u-s-lawmakers-ready-spending-cuts.html
As House Republicans parry
Democratic criticism that they’ve gone too far with proposed
spending cuts, they confront a battle within their own ranks
over whether the cuts go far enough.  A faction of House Republicans plans to continue pushing
for bigger budget savings than party leaders recommended last
week, reductions that Democrats argue would harm the U.S.
economic recovery.  Republicans won control of the House in November on
promises to slash  government spending  by $100 billion this
year. Leaders backed off that pledge, offering a plan they will
take up next week that trims 2011 spending by $35 billion, in
part because the fiscal year already is almost half over. The
cuts are $58 billion less than President  Barack Obama  requested
for non-security discretionary spending.  The House Republicans pushing for the full $100 billion in
cuts aren’t buying their leadership’s reasoning.  “We are going to be accused of hating children, seniors,
clean air and all of the above, so you might as well come out
all at once out of the box and say ‘this is what I am trying to
do,’” said Representative Jack Kingston, a Georgia Republican
and member of the Appropriations Committee. “Many members feel
like, ‘now, you said $100 billion.’”  In addition to pushing for the full $100 billion in cuts,
the  Republican Study Committee  wants to roll back non-defense
discretionary spending next year to 2006 levels for 10 years,
beyond the 2008 levels Republican leaders have called for this
year.  ‘Mini-Revolt’  House Republican leaders “seem to have a little mini-
revolt within their party,” said Robert Bixby, head of the
Washington-based  Concord Coalition , which promotes balanced
budgets. “This could be a real problem for them, trying to
tamp down some unrealistic expectations on how fast you can
bring the deficit under control.”  The proposal to return to 2006 funding levels would mean
reductions of about 40 percent in a decade for financing
education programs,  cancer research , national parks and FBI
agents, said James Horney, director of federal fiscal policy at
the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities .  “The American people would be horrified by cuts like
that,” Horney said.  A spokesman for the Republican Study Committee, Brian
Straessle, said the group’s plan doesn’t identify any specific
percentage cuts for programs, and lawmakers can set their own
priorities on where to make reductions.  ‘La La Land’  Representative Jim Jordan of  Ohio , who heads the
Republican Study Committee, said that only in the “La La Land
of Washington” would his group’s proposed cuts be considered
drastic.  “Back home in Ohio, western Ohio, the area I represent,
people are saying of course you should get $100 billion in
savings,” he said.  Jordan called the Republican leaders’ push for spending
cuts “a great start.” Still, Jordan said, “We’re going to
push for more.”  Republican Study Committee members intend to offer their
proposed spending reductions on the House floor when lawmakers
debate a measure to fund federal agencies through the rest of
the fiscal year, which ends Sept. 30. A current stopgap measure
to keep the government running expires March 4.  The debate will follow the Feb. 14 release of Obama’s
proposed fiscal 2012 budget. Obama has called for a five-year
freeze on discretionary spending outside of national security.  House Republican leaders, after announcing the overall
spending shrinkage they set for various areas, plan to release
specific cuts later this week. Under the caps, transportation
and housing programs would see cuts of 17 percent, while health
and education programs would be reduced by 4 percent.  ‘Harm the Economy’  The ranking Democrat on the Budget Committee,  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , said such cuts would “harm the economy and
put more people out of work.”  The Republican leadership plan would peg total 2011
appropriations at $1.055 trillion, compared with last year’s
$1.091 trillion and the $1.128 trillion the administration had
requested. The government’s total budget, including
entitlements such as Medicare and Social Security, is $3.7
trillion. The government’s budget deficit will widen this year
to $1.5 trillion, the  Congressional Budget Office  estimated
last month.  “For us to get our fiscal house in order, we’re going to
have to make cuts to just about everything,” said
Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican who
in November defeated Democrat John Spratt, the former Budget
Committee chairman. “The 2006 funding levels were not
draconian. The government was fat and happy back then.”  Mulvaney is among the more than 70 of 87 new House
Republicans who joined the Republican Study Committee, which
has 175 members, more than half of the 242 Republicans in the
chamber.  The freshmen “are on a mission to fix things,” Jordan
said. “They came here understanding the same old, same old
isn’t going to work. It’s time to drastically reduce
spending.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in  Washington  at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  