-- ‘Streetcar’ Goes Japanese for Comedie-Francaise Debut: Review
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2011-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/-streetcar-goes-japanese-for-comedie-francaise-premiere-jorg-von-uthmann.html
The  Comedie-Francaise , France’s
oldest and most prestigious theater, has staged the first U.S.
play in its 330-year history, Tennessee Williams’s “A Streetcar
Named Desire.”  Alas, it’s a production the author would hardly recognize.
Director Lee Breuer tells the story of Blanche, the neurotic
southern belle who comes to stay with her sister Stella in  New
Orleans  and ends up in an insane asylum, in the stylized manner
of Bunraku, the Japanese puppet theater.  The Paris theater company must have known that it was in
for a surprise: Breuer is a co-founder of  Mabou Mines , an
experimental troupe in  New York .  What you see is a minimalist set with black platforms and a
few props -- a bed, a table, a chair -- constantly moved around
by hooded assistants. Canvases with Japanese motifs float by in
the background. The streetcar also appears at the beginning and
at the end.  In the poker scene, Stanley, Stella’s brutish husband, and
his buddies sit in the four corners of the stage, gesticulating
and shouting at each other in the throaty manner that we
recognize from samurai movies.  When Stanley rapes Blanche, he appears accompanied by four
doppelgangers in green wigs and purple pajamas, which may mean
the scene is a hallucination of her deranged mind.  Blues Band  At the end, Blanche is led away by five masked fellows who
seem to have stepped out of a Venetian painting. Before they
disappear with their patient, they throw off their black coats
and morph into a cheerful blues band in white tails.  Jazzy interludes (John Margolis) interrupt and often
overlap with the dialogue. Some scenes are performed almost as a
ritual dance.  In the program, Breuer defends his unorthodox approach as a
necessary antidote to the realism of Elia Kazan’s first Broadway
production and his subsequent film: “We have to explore new
interpretations. If we don’t do that, the play will dry up and
die.”  The program also refers to a conversation between Williams
and the Japanese writer Yukio Mishima in which they agreed that
Japan and the Deep South had much in common. What they
definitely had in common was that both authors were gay.  The real issue is the difficulty in finding actors able to
take on Vivien Leigh and  Marlon Brando , who starred in the film.
Instead of facing the competition, the game is shifted to
another field.  Lusty Snob  That’s even more unfortunate because Anne Kessler could
have been a perfect Blanche, in no way inferior to Leigh’s
classic portrayal. She easily moves from social snobbery to
drunken reeling, from delusions of grandeur to barely controlled
lust.  Eric Ruf, on the other hand, is miscast as Stanley. It’s
almost touching to see such an elegant leading man gyrating his
hips and pretending to be a wild beast. With his long blond
hair, he looks more like an aging hippie.  Francoise Gillard is a likeable Stella. Gregory Gadebois,
who enters and exits on a motorcycle, has the talent to play
Mitch, Blanche’s good-natured suitor. It’s unlikely, though,
that Blanche, even in her darkest moments, would date such a
heavily tattooed leather punk.  “Un Tramway Nomme Desir” is in repertory at the Comedie-
Francaise, Paris, through June 2. Information:
 http://www.comedie-francaise.fr  or (from  France  only)
08-2510-1680.  Rating: *.  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 