-- Fed Should ‘Seriously’ Reconsider QE, Lacker Says
-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 2011-02-08T17:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/lacker-says-fed-should-seriously-reconsider-600-billion-stimulus-plan.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said the quickening U.S. recovery means
policy makers need to take “quite seriously” their commitment
to review a $600 billion monetary-stimulus program.  “The distinct improvement we’ve seen in the economic
outlook since the program was initiated suggests taking that re-
evaluation quite seriously,” Lacker said today in a speech in
Newark,  Delaware . Replying to a question during a panel
discussion, he said that while the program shouldn’t end now, a
halt may be warranted in coming months if job growth strengthens
and gains in consumer spending persist.  Fed policy makers pledged in November to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to spur growth in a second round of
so-called quantitative easing, building on the $1.7 trillion
first round of purchases of mortgage and government debt that
ended in March 2010.  “I’m not ready to stop it right now, but I think it was
widely recognized that it was a close call as to the costs and
benefits,” Lacker, 55, said at an economic-forecast forum at
the  University of Delaware . “Growth has come in stronger, at
least for me, than I was expecting over the last couple of
months.”  “If that continues, if we get some strong employment
reports in the next couple of months particularly on the payroll
side that really confirm that picture of an improving labor
market, and we know that the pace of consumer spending is
sustained at a higher level, high rate of increase, I think that
a re-evaluation and perhaps stopping it might be warranted,” he
said.  Halt Purchases  Speaking with reporters afterward, Lacker declined to say
whether the Fed is likely to halt the purchases or phase them
out. There are a “lot of options,” he said.  Lacker said in December he was “not well disposed” to the
stimulus program dubbed QE2 by analysts and investors, saying he
thought the risks exceeded the benefits. He is among a minority
of Fed policy makers who have expressed skepticism about the
asset purchases. The Fed has said it will regularly review the
pace and size of its stimulus.  “I expect noticeably stronger growth in overall activity
this year than last,” Lacker said in his speech. The inflation
outlook is “benign,” and he projects price increases this year
of 1.5 percent to 2 percent.  Higher  consumer spending , along with business investment in
equipment and software, points to U.S. growth this year of
“pretty close to 4 percent,” Lacker said.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.2 percent to
1,321.97 at 12:02 p.m. in New York trading. Yields on 10-year
Treasuries rose three basis points to 3.656 percent, according
to BGCantor Market Data.  Risks to the economy include a “depressed” housing market
along with foreclosures and a high inventory of vacant homes,
Lacker said. At the same time, the industry represents about 2
1/4 percent of U.S. output, “so the damage this sector is
capable of inflicting is in some sense limited,” he said.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , by comparison, said on Feb. 3
that he needs to see “a sustained period of stronger  job
creation ” before deeming the recovery firmly established. The
Fed’s Jan. 26 statement said the rebound “has been insufficient
to bring about a significant improvement in labor market
conditions,” expanding its focus beyond the jobless rate.  Lacker doesn’t have a vote this year on the interest-rate-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee . He dissented four times
in 2006 in favor of higher  interest rates .  Voted Against Decision  In January 2009, Lacker voted against an FOMC decision to
buy housing debt, indicating a preference to inject money into
the banking system through purchases of U.S. Treasury
securities.  Unemployment declined to 9 percent in January from
December’s 9.4 percent, the Labor Department said Feb. 4.
Employers added 36,000 workers, short of the 146,000 median gain
projected in a Bloomberg News surveyed of economists, as winter
storms deterred hiring. The two-month decline in the jobless
rate, which was 9.8 percent in November, was the biggest since
1958.  While additions to payrolls were smaller than forecast,
“an array of forward-looking indicators of employment trends
point to continued labor market improvement,” Lacker said
today. The January report was “peculiar,” he told reporters
afterward. He declined to specify a level of payroll growth he
would like to see.  Broader Inflation  Lacker said it’s “hard to say” how much higher commodity
prices will feed into broader inflation. The increases may have
a “transitory” effect on overall inflation or may persist if
companies pass along input prices to customers, Lacker said.  He told reporters afterward that there’s a “significant
risk” of a sustained increase in overall inflation and that
prices excluding food and energy may see a small “bump” in the
coming months.  Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  is scheduled to speak
today in Anniston,  Alabama , while the Dallas Fed’s  Richard Fisher  plans to speak in  Dallas . Bernanke testifies tomorrow
before the House Budget Committee.  Fed Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  is leading a review of how
the FOMC communicates with the public, and Bernanke said last
week that policy makers are “very seriously” considering
whether he should give press conferences, as European Central
Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  does.  “Personally, I don’t see anything wrong with doing press
conferences,” Lacker said. “I think he’d be great at it,” he
said of Bernanke. He declined to elaborate on the Yellen
subcommittee’s discussions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Newark , Delaware, at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  