-- Al Gore's Current TV Hires ex-MSNBC Keith Olbermann to Host Show, Run News
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2011-02-08T19:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/al-gore-s-current-tv-hires-ex-msnbc-keith-olbermann-to-host-show-run-news.html
  Keith Olbermann , the former MSNBC
host, is starting a news and commentary show on Current TV, a
cable channel co-founded by Al Gore.  Olbermann, who left MSNBC last month after serving a two-
day suspension over political donations in November, is
receiving equity in the company and will serve as chief news
officer, New York-based Current Media said today in a statement.  Current TV is available in 75 million homes worldwide and,
with Olbermann on air, the privately held company expects
distribution to climb further, Gore said today on a conference
call. Led by Olbermann and other liberal voices such as  Rachel Maddow , MSNBC had moved past CNN into second place behind Fox
News in cable-news ratings, according to  Brad Adgate , a
researcher at Horizon Media, an advertising company in  New York .  Olbermann’s arrival “will be significant in gaining more
distribution,” Current Media co-founder  Joel Hyatt  said. “It’s
significant in terms of fans he’ll bring to our network, some
for the first time. In every respect the business implications
of this are huge.”  The network will allow Olbermann, 52, to make political
donations as long as he discloses them to viewers, said Gore,
former U.S. Vice President.  Olbermann’s show will air weeknights in prime-time starting
later in 2011, the network said. Current TV is carried in 60
million U.S. homes, said the company, which doesn’t provide
financial results.  An initial public offering isn’t a “top priority” for
Current Media, which registered for an IPO in 2007, Hyatt said
on the conference call.  “We haven’t revisited the notion,” said Hyatt, who also
serves as executive vice chairman. “We don’t have a need to
access the public markets, we don’t have a need for capital.
It’s not a top priority at the moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  