-- Aldar Properties, Abu Dhabi's Largest Developer, Posts $3.45 Billion Loss
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2011-02-08T14:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/aldar-properties-abu-dhabi-s-largest-developer-posts-3-45-billion-loss.html
  Aldar Properties PJSC , Abu Dhabi’s
biggest developer, reported a full-year loss of 12.7 billion
dirhams ($3.45 billion) after  setting aside money  to cover bad
assets.  The loss compares with a profit of 837.4 million dirhams in
a year earlier, the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
The mean estimate of eight analysts was for a loss of 8.2
billion dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aldar in January agreed to sell assets including a Ferrari
theme park and convertible bonds to the government for 19.2
billion dirhams to reduce debt after property prices slumped by
over 30 percent and speculative demand evaporated. The company
booked a 10.8 billion-dirham impairment charge in the fourth
quarter to reflect the drop in real estate values. Full-year
impairments and fair value losses were 11.3 billion dirhams.  “The good news is the fact Aldar is cleaning its balance
sheet in one hit rather than drag that over years,” Majed Azzam,
an analyst at Alembic HC Securities who has an “overweight”
rating on the stock, said before earnings were released.    Abu Dhabi ’s government will pay 10.9 billion dirhams for
the theme park, roads and bridges on Yas Island and 5.5 billion
dirhams for homes and land, Aldar said in January. Mubadala
Development Co., a state-owned  investment company , will buy a
2.8 billion-dirham convertible bond from Aldar and will convert
a 2008 bond into equity at 11.73 dirhams a share, Aldar said.
Government-owned Mubadala is Aldar’s biggest shareholder.  “Despite the challenging market conditions that prevailed
in 2010, Aldar forged ahead with its commitment to delivering
high quality developments and infrastructure that will have a
positive long term impact for Abu Dhabi,” Chairman Ahmed Al Sayegh said in the statement. “We have also put in place new
financial framework, focused on strengthening the  capital
structure  and ensuring the business has a sustainable future.”  Aldar has 29.7 billion dirhams of outstanding debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That includes 16.2
billion dirhams due this year.  From now on, “investors’ attention is likely to focus on
recurring income ramp-up and margins/default rate of the first
Al Raha Beach deliveries,” Deutsche Bank AG analyst Nabil Ahmed
wrote in a report dated Jan. 24.  Aldar Chief Financial Officer Shafqat Malik said the
company will be profitable in 2011 as it delivers 2,600 homes in
projects such as al Zeina and al Muneera on Al Raha beach.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 