-- Allstate Exits Banking, Sells Deposits to Discover as Regulations Tighten
-- B y   A p r i l   L e e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/allstate-exits-banking-sells-deposits-to-discover-as-regulations-tighten.html
  Allstate Corp ., the largest publicly
traded U.S. home and auto insurer, is exiting the banking
business and will sell about $1.1 billion in deposits to  Discover Financial Services  as regulators increase scrutiny of
the industry.  Discover will provide  savings accounts , certificates of
deposit and money-market products to Allstate customers, the
Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer said yesterday in a
statement.  Allstate, regulated by state insurance commissioners, has
been subject to additional oversight by the Office of Thrift
Supervision because of its banking business. The Fed will be
taking greater authority over the financial industry after the
passage of the Dodd-Frank Act last year.  Allstate Chief Executive Officer Thomas Wilson met in
October with representatives of the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago for a discussion on changes in regulation. Wilson has
focused the Allstate Financial unit on life insurance and
retirement and investment products.  “That, combined with the changing regulatory environment,
led us to the determination that operating Allstate Bank is no
longer core to our long-term strategy,” said Matthew Winter,
CEO of Allstate Financial, in the statement.  Discover climbed 34 cents to $21.47 yesterday in regular
New York Stock Exchange trading, its highest since Oct. 12,
2007. It has gained 68 percent in the past year. Allstate rose
68 cents to $32.56, its highest in more than three months.  Discover Diversifies  Discover CEO  David Nelms  is using acquisitions to diversify
revenue and augment the credit-card business. Last month, the
firm purchased  Student Loan Corp . from  Citigroup Inc . The deal
may help Discover make more credit-card loans to the 300,000 new
customers of its expanded student-loan business.  “They’ve been trying to reduce their reliance on
securitization funding and been growing their direct-to-consumer
bank,” said Michael Taiano, an analyst at Sandler O’Neill &
Partners LP, who has a “hold” rating on Discover.  Allstate and Riverwoods, Illinois-based Discover both trace
their roots to retailer Sears Roebuck & Co. Terms of the deal
weren’t disclosed and aren’t “material,” Allstate said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
April Lee in New York at 
 alee355@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  