-- Anglo Irish Expects 2010 Loss of 17.6 Billion Euros
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2011-02-08T16:37:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/anglo-irish-bank-sees-2010-loss-of-24-billion-most-in-country-s-history.html
  Anglo Irish  Bank Corp., taken over by
the government two years ago, said it expects to post a pretax
loss of about 17.6 billion euros ($24 billion) in 2010, the
largest corporate loss in the nation’s history.  The Dublin-based lender lost 16 billion euros, or 59
percent, of its deposits over the course of the year, the
company said in a statement today. The pretax loss exceeds the
12.8 billion-euro loss the bank posted for the 15 months to the
end of December 2009.  Anglo Irish expects an 11.5 billion-euro loss on the sale
of loans to the National Asset Management Agency, the nation’s
so-called bad bank, and an impairment charge on other loans of
7.8 billion euros, it said. The figures haven’t been audited.  Allied Irish Banks Plc  held the record for less than a month
last March, with a 2009 pretax loss of 2.7 billion euros.  The government today ordered Anglo Irish and a second state-
controlled lender, Irish  Nationwide Building Society , to sell
their deposits and some assets. Anglo Irish Chairman Alan Dukes
said today losses in the Irish financial system may amount to as
much as 100 billion euros after a decade-long real estate boom
collapsed.  “A clean banking core will require something in the region
of 50 billion euros,” Dukes, 65, a former finance minister,
said in an e-mailed copy of a speech today. “A clean banking
restructuring implies the acceptance of irrecoverable losses.”  Irish Bailout  The government was forced last year into seeking an 85
billion-euro bailout, led by the European Union and  International Monetary Fund , as deposits fled Ireland. Anglo
Irish absorbed 29.3 billion euros of the 46 billion euros of
capital Ireland pumped into its debt-laden banking system over
the past two years.  Anglo Irish’s reliance on central bank funding soared to 45
billion euros at the end of December from 23.7 billion euros at
the end of 2009, the company said, as depositors fled.  “Conditions in wholesale funding markets remain extremely
difficult,” Anglo Irish said. “The bank continues to rely on
government and monetary authority support mechanisms.”  Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide will be merged as part of
a restructuring plan, subject to European Commission approval,
Anglo said in a separate statement today. The joint plan was
filed with the EU last week.  ‘Orderly Workout’  “The restructuring plan envisages the orderly workout” of
both lenders “over a period of years,” the  Finance Ministry 
said. Anglo Irish and Irish Nationwide have also been directed
by the government to sell “assets with a value equivalent to
the value of the deposit books,” a ministry spokeswoman said.
Irish Nationwide had  5.3 billion euros  of customer deposits at
the end of 2009.  The  National Treasury Management Agency , which is in charge
of bank restructuring for the government, said it will
“immediately commence an auction process to invite interested,
fully licensed financial institutions” to bid for Anglo Irish’s
and Irish Nationwide’s deposits.  Restructuring of both lenders “is a step in the right
direction,”  Oliver Gilvarry , head of research at Dublin-based
Dolmen Securities, said by telephone.  Still, there is
“uncertainty on how deleveraging of the total Irish banking
sector will be managed, and whether it will result in further
capital holes to be filled by the Irish state.”  Ireland agreed to sell banking assets and carry out a fresh
round of stress tests as part of last year’s international aid
agreement. The central bank will complete capital and liquidity
reviews by the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  