-- Anglo American's Carroll Says Mine Nationalization Would Be `Road to Ruin'
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-08T14:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/anglo-american-s-carroll-says-mine-nationalization-would-be-road-to-ruin-.html
  Anglo American Plc ’s Chief Executive
Officer Cynthia Carroll said nationalization of mining assets in  South Africa , which has the world’s largest mineral reserves,
would be “the road to ruin.”  “Mining companies simply will not invest if they cannot be
assured that the assets they create will be secure,” Carroll
said today at a conference in  Cape Town . “In ignoring this
truth, the false prophets who argue for nationalization are
advocating the road to ruin -- a path we must not follow.”  The ruling African National Congress agreed last year to
officially debate nationalization after  Julius Malema , the
leader of the ANC’s youth arm, called for such a policy. South
Africa has about $2.5 trillion in mineral reserves,  Citibank NA 
estimated last year, saying that’s more than any other country.  Anglo, founded in Johannesburg in 1917, is the biggest
private employer in South Africa and estimates that it generates
as much as 2.5 percent of the country’s gross domestic product.
The company controls  Anglo Platinum Ltd ., the world’s largest
supplier of the metal, produces coal and iron ore and owns a
stake in De Beers, which mines diamonds in South Africa.  Kumba Dispute  Anglo could split its South African units from assets it
holds outside the country as the business environment worsens,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said last year. The risk to
investors has been demonstrated by a dispute over prospecting
rights at a  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd . mine, Merrill said in July.  Kumba, a unit of Anglo, is challenging the government’s
award of a license to Imperial Crown Trading 289 Ltd. at the
Sishen mine, claiming the rights were granted unlawfully.  Carroll’s comments are “a pre-emptive strike on the part
of Anglo American,”  Gwede Mantashe , secretary-general of the
ANC, told reporters in Johannesburg today, adding that the
government is conducting case studies in 13 countries. “Anyone
who pre-empts this process is not adding value.”  Nations that have “gone in that direction,” such as
Mexico and  Venezuela , “do not exemplify great success through
their nationalization,” Carroll said.  In Zambia, Anglo was “directly impacted” by calls for
nationalization, she said. “Since that time about 10 years ago,
industry was invited back in to try to resurrect the
infrastructure and mines, and we simply couldn’t do it, and so
we walked away. We went off to  Chile .”  The South African government is committed to a free market,
and “that’s why we’re here for the future,” Carroll said,
adding that Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu
“continues to be very clear.”  Nationalizing mines is “not the option,” Reuters reported
today, citing the minister. The ANC’s youth wing said Shabangu
was misleading investors and undermining the process by making
“false assurances.” The ANC said last year it will decide on
the policy at its national conference in 2012, according to a
statement from the Youth League.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 