-- Anglo Seeks to Double Output at Grosvenor Coal Project
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2011-02-08T13:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/anglo-american-wants-to-accelerate-expansion-at-grosvenor-coal-project.html
  Anglo American Plc  Chief Executive
Officer Cynthia Carroll, seeking to increase production of raw
materials needed in  China , may double output at the Grosvenor
coal mine in Queensland, Australia.  “We’re trying to compress the expansion of that so we can
double capacity in fairly short order,” Carroll said today in
an interview. “I’m very keen on metallurgical coal on the back
of the growth we’re seeing in the steel industry throughout the
Asian world in particular but more broadly, globally. We’re
seeing a considerable increase and not one we expected.”  Anglo said last year the board would decide on approval for
4.3 million metric tons of output from Grosvenor late this year.  “We’re looking at over 8 million tons by, say, 2015-2016,
and then we’ve got further upside that we’re looking at in  Australia ,” Carroll said in Cape Town, giving an annual figure.  Anglo, based in  London , is boosting output of the metals
and minerals needed to meet rising Asian demand for appliances
and cars as economies in the region grow faster than those in
the U.S. and Europe. The company, which controls the world’s
largest producer of platinum, is building iron ore, copper and
nickel mines in  South America  as well as expanding in Australia.  “I’m high on copper, I’m high on metallurgical coal, I’m
very bullish on platinum, I continue to believe in iron ore,”
Carroll said. “The outlook is really very, very positive.”  Copper supply will be squeezed as grades decline, and  iron
ore  projects remain “challenged” mainly because of a lack of
infrastructure for production, she said.  “Mining is in a sweet spot of the development and the
growth going forward, with China leading but other emerging
market countries not far behind,” Carroll said. “There are
enormous opportunities,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net . 