-- AOL Wagers on Huffington in ‘Shoot The Moon’ Purchase
-- B y   B r e t t   P u l l e y
-- 2011-02-08T21:21:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/aol-s-armstrong-wagers-on-arianna-huffington-in-shoot-the-moon-purchase.html
  AOL Inc .’s deal to purchase the
Huffington Post is more than a bet on the website’s financial
prospects. It’s a wager on the ability of co-founder Arianna Huffington to build an online media empire, analysts say.  Under the $315 million acquisition agreement, Huffington,
60, will join AOL and become president and editor-in-chief of a
newly formed media group. In the position, she’ll oversee all of
New York-based AOL’s content, from the  TechCrunch  blog to the
Patch local news sites to new content initiatives.  While the goal is to help AOL become a more powerful force
in online advertising, there’s a risk in putting Huffington in
charge of editorial, said Rob Enderle, a  San Jose , California-
based technology consultant. Her political views, often critical
of corporations and Republicans, may be polarizing, he said.  Still, Huffington may be able to help AOL build a media
organization with a distinct and successful voice similar to the
approach  News Corp . has used with Fox News, Enderle said.  “Yes, she’s got political views, but gosh, look how
political views have worked for Fox,” Enderle said in an
interview. “There’s certainly the opportunity to create a much
more powerful liberal voice in the country. The fact that it
hasn’t been done yet, doesn’t mean it can’t be done.”  Huffington’s views have alienated advertisers in the past.
In 2001, FedEx Corp. and Sears, Roebuck & Co., now part of  Sears
Holdings Corp ., pulled their advertising from ABC television’s
“Politically Incorrect” after Huffington and host Bill Maher
described past U.S. military actions as cowardly.  Expanding Audience  AOL declined 30 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $20.89 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have
declined 12 percent this year.  AOL Chief Executive Officer Tim Armstrong is turning to
Huffington as his company struggles with declining revenue in
both its advertising and Internet-access subscription
businesses. The company this month reported 2010 revenue fell 26
percent to $2.42 billion.  The acquisition will create a company with about 270
million unique visitors a month worldwide and 117 million in the
U.S., AOL said in a statement. AOL also owns MapQuest, Moviefone
and the  Engadget  technology blog.  “I have to hand it to  Tim Armstrong ,” said George Bell,
CEO of Jumptap Inc., a mobile ad company based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts . “It’s probably time to get aggressive. Why not
shoot the moon on content? The advertisers want to go where the
quality audiences are, especially in display.”  Huffington has agreed to a multiyear deal at AOL, though
the exact length was not disclosed.  “Arianna is a star, and she’s our main attraction,”
Armstrong said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. “We
have to go beyond left and right, and I think Arianna has been
pushing the Huffington Post the last couple of years.”  Greek Roots  Born Arianna Stassinopoulos in  Greece , Huffington moved to  England  at 16 and graduated from  Cambridge University  with a
degree in economics, according to  the biography  on her company’s
website. She became president of the Cambridge Union debating
society at 21, according to the biography.  Her book “The Female Woman,” on the changing role of
women, was published in 1974. She later wrote biographies of
painter Pablo Picasso and opera singer  Maria Callas . More
recently, she has written books about politics, including 2010’s
“Third World America: How Our Politicians Are Abandoning the
Middle Class and Betraying the American Dream.”  Marriage and Divorce  She took her current name after marrying Michael Huffington, the son of a wealthy energy entrepreneur. Michael
Huffington was elected as a Republican congressman from  California , and his wife became an outspoken supporter of
Republican causes. Michael Huffington lost a campaign to unseat
U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein  in 1994, and then revealed in a
news article printed in Esquire magazine that he was gay.  After the couple divorced in the late 1990s, Huffington
shifted her support to Democrats. In 2003, she ran for
California governor, advocating for closing tax loopholes and
conserving energy. When she dropped out of the race, she said
she would spend “every ounce of time” trying to defeat  Arnold Schwarzenegger , who was elected governor that October.  Huffington raised $2 million with New York-based angel
investor Ken Lerer to start  Huffington Post  in 2005. The website
began as a political forum and has expanded to 26 sections,
including sports, business, entertainment and travel.  Huffington Post raised about $35 million in  venture capital 
from firms including Greycroft Partners LLC, founded by Alan Patricof. Most of the last round of $25 million, led by  Oak
Investment Partners , remained in the bank in December,
Huffington said in an interview at that time. The company
declined to say how much equity Huffington now holds.  If Arianna Huffington continues to draw traffic and can
boost the unique visitors at AOL’s Web properties, then
advertisers may not care about her political views, said Joel Hollander, the former CEO at CBS Corp.’s CBS Radio.  “If they have a lot of visitors to the site, people will
advertise,” said Hollander in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brett Pulley in  New York  at 
 bpulley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom in New York at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net . 