-- Health-Care Overhaul Ruling to Get Speedy Constitutional Review on Appeal
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/appeals-court-to-speed-review-of-health-care-ruling-update1-.html
A challenge to the constitutionality
of the Obama administration’s health-care plan will get
accelerated review by the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Cincinnati,
putting the case on the same timetable as two appeals in  Virginia .  The court yesterday granted a request for an expedited
hearing by the Thomas More Law Center, a Michigan-based
Christian advocacy group seeking to reverse a federal judge’s
Oct. 7 decision throwing out its challenge to law. The case will
be scheduled for oral argument during the court’s session of May
30 through June 10.  “We would have preferred an even more expedited schedule,
but the government is going to be tied up in Virginia,” said
David Yerushalmi, an Arizona lawyer who represents the Thomas
More Law  Center . “It’s certainly expedited enough for our
purposes.”  The center is appealing a decision by U.S. District Judge
George Caram Steeh in  Detroit  to throw out its request for an
order blocking enforcement of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act signed into law on March 23, the same day
the suit was filed.  Steeh’s decision is one of two rejecting constitutional
challenges to the legislative package intended to create almost
universal health care coverage in part by compelling people over
age 18 to obtain minimal coverage or pay a tax penalty.  Argument in May  The Virginia cases are scheduled to be heard during the May
10 to May 13 argument session. Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli has asked the U.S. Supreme Court to take the Virginia
case before it can be heard by the appeals court.  The law center’s request for an expedited argument was
unopposed by the U.S. Justice Department.  “This essentially puts us on the same track -- timing wise
-- with the Virginia case,” Yerushalmi said.  While U.S. District Judge Norman Moon in Lynchburg,
Virginia, upheld the measure on Nov. 30, two other U.S. judges,
Henry Hudson in Richmond, Virginia, and Roger Vinson in  Pensacola ,  Florida , found the individual mandate portion of the
act exceeded the legislative powers of Congress.  Hudson struck down that part of the law, allowing the
remainder of it to stand. Vinson ruled that the mandate was
essential to the legislative scheme, and ruled the entire act
was thus void.  The government, which sought the expedited review in
Virginia, has also said it will appeal Vinson’s ruling.  The case is Thomas More Law Center v. Obama, 10-2388, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit (Cincinnati).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at +1-
   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 