-- Areva Unlikely to Develop Congo Mine as Instability Persists
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2011-02-08T13:33:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/areva-unlikely-to-develop-congo-uranium-mine-as-country-remains-unstable.html
  Areva SA , the world’s biggest
supplier of nuclear equipment, is unlikely to develop a uranium
mine in the  Democratic Republic of Congo  while the country
remains politically unstable, according to a company adviser.  “The political situation is such that it is still a bit
tricky to make firm plans,” Bertrand Barre, scientific adviser
to Areva Chairwoman  Anne Lauvergeon , said today in an interview
in Johannesburg.  On a March 2009 trip to Congo, French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  sealed a joint-venture agreement to explore the mine,
which produced the uranium used in atomic bombs dropped on Japan
at the end of World War II. The deposit, called Shinkolobwe, was
shut in the 1960s and its revival is now dependent on curbing
the rebel attacks that remain commonplace after years of unrest.  Congo President Joseph Kabila’s government has canceled
mineral concessions belonging to  First Quantum Minerals Ltd . and  Tullow Oil Plc , raising investor concern that their assets are
unsafe in the country. As well as the Shinkolobwe mine, Congo’s
southern Katanga province is home to a third of the world’s
cobalt reserves and 4 percent of known copper deposits.  Areva also operates uranium mines further north in Niger.
The country, the world’s sixth-biggest producer of the metal
used in reactors, will next month hold a runoff presidential
election as it seeks to end a year of military rule.  The Paris-based company doesn’t expect any “drastic”
changes to its agreement in Niger, where the government has
indicated it will review mining contracts to ensure the state
benefits more from its assets, Barre said.  “We expect only minor adjustments” to the arrangement, he
said. “We expect that our record speaks for us. We’ve been
working in  Niger  for a very long time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 