-- Marex Boosts Staff More Than 30% as Commodity Trading Expands
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2011-02-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/marex-boosts-staff-more-than-30-as-commodity-trading-expands.html
Marex Financial Ltd., a London-based
brokerage, expanded headcount by more than 30 percent last year
as clients increased hedging and trading in commodities, energy,
currencies and financial futures.  The company opened its Hong Kong office last month, hiring
six people, said managing director Gavin Prentice, who is also
on the board of the London Metal Exchange. Staff worldwide total
288, he said in an interview by phone from  London  yesterday.  Marex is among firms including Standard Chartered Plc, UBS
AG and Citigroup Inc., which are adding commodities personnel as
prices of copper, cotton and tin climb to records. The Standard
& Poor’s GSCI index of 24 raw-material futures has more than
doubled since February 2009. The company’s trading volume jumped
62 percent last year, he said, declining to specify revenue.  “We have seen a significant increase in demand for hedging
from Hong Kong and mainland Chinese companies across all
commodities,” said Prentice, 47. “The volatility we are seeing
in the markets is a compelling reason” for hedging, he said.  Anise Lau, who joined from Fortis Bank, heads the firm’s  Hong Kong  team, he said. Matthew Dalziel, formerly at HSBC
Holdings Plc, was appointed chief operating officer and Fred Lau,
from Newedge Group, is sales director, he said. The company may
add more Asian offices including in  Singapore , he said.  Marex is one of 12 companies trading on the LME floor, and
is a member of NYSE Liffe, ICE Futures, Eurex and the CME Group.
JRJ Group, the London-based  investment company  set up by former
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. bankers Jeremy Isaacs and Roger Nagioff, owns a majority stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  