-- U.S. Stocks Advance, Treasury Notes Drop on Economic Optimism
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2011-02-08T21:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/asia-s-stocks-currencies-gain-on-outlook-for-global-growth-copper-falls.html
U.S. stocks advanced, giving the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  its longest streak of gains since July,
and shorter-term Treasuries retreated as improving retail sales
and optimism in the homebuilding industry overshadowed  China ’s
interest-rate increase. The dollar weakened and gold rallied.  The Dow climbed for a seventh straight day, rising 71.52
points, or 0.6 percent, to 12,233.15, and the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index increased 0.4 percent at 4 p.m. in New York. Two-year
Treasury yields rose nine basis points to 0.85 percent, while
the dollar weakened against 11 of 12 major peers and gold for
April delivery rallied 1.2 percent to $1,364.10 an ounce.
European equities reversed an earlier drop triggered by concern
economic growth will slow amid higher borrowing costs in China.  The  S&P 500 Retailing Index  of 31 companies advanced above
its highest closing level since July 2007 after the
International Council of Shopping Centers and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said sales increased 2.2 percent in the week ended
Feb. 5 after four straight declines. All 12 stocks in an S&P
gauge of homebuilders climbed as industry executives and
economists predict rebound in demand.  “We have a good background for stocks,” said Kurt Brunner, a Philadelphia-based money manager who helps oversee
$1.2 billion at Swarthmore Group Inc. “Earnings for the most
part have been good and the economic figures have improved.
China raising  interest rates  is just a hiccup because they’re
still going to have strong growth,” he said. “Investors are
able to shrug off the pessimism and look at the good
fundamentals.”  95 Percent Gain  The S&P 500 has rallied almost 96 percent from a 12-year
low in 2009 amid improving economic data and higher-than-
estimated earnings. The gauge is trading at almost 16 times the
reported operating earnings of its companies, the highest level
since June of last year. The  S&P 500  and Dow closed today at
their highest levels since June 2008.  McDonald’s Corp. rose 2.6 percent for the biggest gain in
the Dow today after January same-store sales topped estimates.
Amazon.com Inc., Home Depot Inc. and J.C. Penney Co. paced the
advance in retailers.  Fewer than 7 billion shares traded in the U.S., the lowest
total of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  Confidence among U.S. small companies, which are
responsible for creating about 65 percent of all jobs, rose in
January to the highest level in three years, according to the
National Federation of Independent Business optimism Index.
Reports later this week are forecast to show initial jobless
claims decreased and  consumer confidence  grew.    KB Home  and Meritage Homes Corp. rose more than 4 percent
to help lead gains in homebuilders. The chief executive officers
of six of the 10 largest U.S. homebuilders cited the potential
of a sales comeback in the spring, traditionally their strongest
season, during conference calls in the last four weeks. Housing
forecasts from  Fannie Mae  and the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
show the new-home market will begin a rebound that will last
through at least 2012.  Ten-year U.S. note yields increased 10 basis points to 3.73
percent as Treasuries extended losses after a sale of $32
billion of three-year debt drew the lowest demand since 2007 in
the category of bidders that includes central banks. The
existing three-year note’s yield jumped 11 basis points to 1.35
percent.  ‘Re-evaluation’ of QE  Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker
said the quickening U.S. recovery means policy makers need to
take “quite seriously” their commitment to review a $600 billion
monetary-stimulus program known as quantitative easing.  “The distinct improvement we’ve seen in the economic
outlook since the program was initiated suggests taking that re-
evaluation quite seriously,” Lacker said today in a speech in  Newark ,  Delaware . Replying to a question during a panel
discussion, he said that while the program shouldn’t end now, a
halt may be warranted in coming months if job growth strengthens
and gains in  consumer spending  persist.  Most European stocks rose following better-than-estimated
results from ArcelorMittal to Swedbank AB and Swatch Group AG.
ArcelorMittal, the world’s biggest steelmaker, and Swedbank,
Sweden’s largest bank by branches, gained at least 2.8 percent.
Swatch rallied 5.8 percent after the world’s biggest watchmaker
said profit increased 42 percent in 2010. UBS AG surged 4.3
percent as  Switzerland ’s largest bank attracted net new money
from wealthy clients for a second straight quarter.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against default on senior bonds sold
by European banks rose on concern governments will force
investors to share the cost of rescues. The Markit iTraxx
Financial Index of credit-default swaps linked to 25 banks and
insurers rose 5.5 basis points to 165.5, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co. at 3 p.m. in  London . Corporate swaps indexes fell.  Egypt’s pound rose 1.3 percent versus the dollar,
rebounding from a five-year low, as the central bank intervened
to support the currency, Deputy Central Bank Governor Hisham Ramez said in a telephone interview from Cairo today. He
declined to provide further details. The country’s 2020 bond
fell from the highest in almost two weeks, sending the yield up
15 basis points to 6.37 percent today.  Egypt’s Vice President  Omar Suleiman  said a committee on
constitutional changes will start work today as the government
seeks to convince protesters that it’s serious about moving
toward democracy. Tens of thousands of Egyptian protesters
filled Cairo’s Tahrir Square, with many setting up makeshift
camps before dusk. The rallies remained peaceful after clashes
last week in which the  United Nations  said as many as 300 people
died.  Emerging Markets  Developing-nation stocks fell for a fourth day, sending the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index down 0.1 percent.  India ’s Bombay
Stock Exchange Sensitive Index slid 1.5 percent on concern
rising costs will hurt company profits. Gedeon Richter Nyrt. led
Hungary’s BUX index 2.2 percent lower after the country’s
largest drugmaker said profit will probably “decline
significantly” this year. Richter tumbled 4.3 percent, the most
since May.  China raised lending and deposit rates for the third time
since mid-October after growth accelerated and inflation
remained above 4 percent for a third month.  “There are inflationist signs and that incites China and
other countries to progressively raise rates,” said Matthieu Giuliani, a  fund manager  at Palatine Asset Management in Paris,
which oversees $5.47 billion. “This can weigh on those
countries and on  Europe  and the U.S., which rely on emerging
markets for growth. It will be difficult for the domestic
European and U.S. economies to pick up from here and rely on
their own growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 Mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 