-- Asian Currencies Fall as China Rate-Rise Hurts Export Outlook
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2011-02-09T10:16:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/asian-currencies-rise-on-economic-growth-boost-in-china-s-borrowing-costs.html
Asian currencies weakened, led by  South Korea ’s won and the Philippine peso, on concern China’s
interest-rate increase will slow its economy, damping demand for
the region’s exports.  The People’s Bank of China raised one-year lending and
deposit rates yesterday by a quarter of a percentage point to
6.06 percent and 3 percent respectively. The North Asian country
is the largest market for exports from South  Korea ,  Taiwan  and
Thailand, according to government data. Overseas sales account
for about half of the Korean economy and two-thirds of Thai and
Taiwanese gross domestic product.  “In the longer term, there will be some impact on exports
from a slowdown in China,” said Norawit Suparinayok, a foreign-
exchange trader at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “That is reflected by some
of the regional currencies today.”  The won dropped 0.4 percent to 1,108.85 per dollar as of
the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Philippine peso fell 0.4 percent to 43.565, the
Singapore dollar weakened 0.2 percent to S$1.2750 and  Malaysia ’s
ringgit lost 0.2 percent to 3.0380.  South Korea’s exports climbed 46 percent in January from a
year earlier with China buying 15 percent of the total, official
data show.  Asia ’s biggest-economy purchased about 12 percent of
Malaysia and Thailand’s overseas shipments in December,
according to government data.  The won advanced as much as 0.2 percent earlier on
speculation the central bank will raise borrowing costs this
week and allow gains in the currency to curb rising prices. The  Bank of Korea  may lift its benchmark interest rate by a quarter
of a percentage point to 3 percent on Feb. 11, according to nine
of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Three expect no change.  Preemptive Move  Finance Minister Yoon Jeung Hyun said today the government
needs to act “preemptively” to curb inflation as price gains
can weaken the foundation of a stable economy. President  Lee Myung Bak  declared “a war against inflation” last month,
saying it must be contained at 3 percent to protect people on
low incomes.  Inflation in January accelerated to 4.1 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 3.5 percent in December, breaching the
central bank’s 4 percent ceiling.    China ’s yuan was unchanged at 6.5938 from Feb. 1, the last
day of trading before the Lunar New Year holiday, after
strengthening as much as 0.18 percent earlier.  A government report next week will show consumer prices in
China gained 5.3 percent from a year earlier in January,
compared with 4.6 percent in December, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. That would be the fastest
inflation since July 2008.  Inflation Concern  The yuan will appreciate 4.7 percent to 6.30 per dollar by
the end of the year, according to the median forecast of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. It climbed 0.6 percent in the
week after the interest-rate increase on Dec. 25.  “Asian central banks outside Japan are more concerned
about inflation so it makes sense the currencies are allowed to
appreciate to damp imported inflation,” said  Robert Minikin , a
senior foreign-exchange strategist at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “Before too long, we will start seeing the fixing
rate to move decisively stronger.”  Elsewhere, the Indian rupee weakened 0.2 percent to 45.41
per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Thailand ’s
baht was little changed at 30.72, compared with 30.71 yesterday,
while Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.2 percent to NT$29.10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  