-- AT&T, Verizon 4G Wireless Technology to Be Dominant by 2012
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2011-02-08T15:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/at-t-verizon-4g-wireless-technology-to-dominate-dwarfing-sprint-s-wimax.html
Long-term evolution, the high-speed
mobile Internet standard used by  AT&T Inc . and  Verizon Wireless 
in the U.S., will become the dominant fourth-generation network
technology worldwide by 2012, a research firm predicted.  Next year, there will be more than twice as many customers
for LTE as for WiMax, an alternative 4G technology used by  Sprint Nextel Corp ., researcher  IHS ISuppli  said today. In 2014,
there will be 303.1 million LTE users worldwide, almost ten
times as many customers as WiMax, IHS ISuppli said.  Sprint has bet billions on the WiMax standard, funneling
cash into its partner  Clearwire Corp . to build out the first,
nationwide 4G network. The companies have said they chose WiMax
because of the technology’s early lead on LTE, a standard also
endorsed by several Asian and European carriers.  “With WiMax enjoying a two to three-year head start in
next generation network deployments, it presently enjoys a major
advantage in market share,” said Francis Sideco, an analyst for
El Segundo, California-based IHS ISuppli. “With LTE supported
by most of the leading wireless operators worldwide, it will
rise to surpass WiMax.”  A wider adoption of a wireless technology may help reduce
prices for network equipment and phones, and prompt handset
makers to produce more devices for that standard.  Sprint, based in  Overland Park ,  Kansas , has said it will
spend as much as $5 billion to upgrade its network in the next
three to five years. The modernization plan will make it
possible for Sprint to add LTE service. Clearwire has also said
it may switch to LTE in the future.  4G networks provide customers with data speeds several
times faster than older technology. Carriers are building out
speedier infrastructure as they encourage more customers to buy
data plans, which give users Web access and the ability to
download games and music.  WiMax will maintain its lead this year with 14.9 million
subscribers worldwide to LTE’s 10.4 million, IHS ISuppli said.
Verizon began offering LTE to customers in some markets last
year. Clearwire and Sprint have been offering WiMax service for
more than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in New York at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  