-- Audi Buyers Wait Months as Factories Struggle to Keep Up With Orders
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2011-02-09T13:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/audi-buyers-wait-months-as-factories-at-full-steam-struggle-to-keep-pace.html
Audi AG buyers must wait an average
of three to four months for cars like the $52,700 A6 sedan as
the company runs factories at full steam in an effort to keep
pace with record demand, sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer  said.  “If sales continue to grow like this, it’ll be difficult
to say how long it could take to reduce waiting times,”
Schwarzenbauer said yesterday in a phone interview from Audi’s
headquarters in Ingolstadt,  Germany . “We’re working at full
capacity at our plants and may add extra shifts on Saturdays.”  Buyers of Audi’s full-size A6, which is coming out in a new
version starting in March, and the compact A3 have especially
long waits due to the models’ popularity, spokeswoman Esther Bahne said. Customers generally receive their cars within eight
to 10 weeks of their order during periods with more normal
levels of demand, she said.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG ,  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz
division and  Volkswagen AG ’s Audi, Germany’s three biggest
luxury-auto makers, all reported record sales for January, with
the VW unit besting its two larger rivals in deliveries for the
month. The manufacturers are adding or expanding plants this
year to satisfy growing demand from  China , the U.S. and Germany.  Volkswagen’s preferred shares were the best performers in
Germany’s benchmark DAX index last year, surging 86 percent and
outpacing BMW’s 85 percent rally. VW added as much as 1.1
percent to 124.30 euros today and was trading at 123 euros as of
2:26 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Long Waits  Customers at BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-car maker,
must wait as many as three months for most models and as long as
six months for the overhauled X3 sport-utility vehicle, said
Birgit Hiller, a spokeswoman for the Munich-based company.  Waiting times at Mercedes-Benz, which ranks second to BMW
in global sales, are at close to the pre-recession levels of
2007, with most vehicles ordered now scheduled for delivery at
the beginning of the second quarter, said Verena Mueller, a
spokeswoman at the Stuttgart, Germany-based manufacturer.  “Among the three carmakers, Audi seems to be in the most
tense situation,” said Thierry Huon, a Paris-based analyst at
Exane BNP Paribas with an “outperform” recommendation on
Volkswagen stock and an “underperform” on BMW. “If you’re
forced to deliver two months after your competitors, you never
know what your customers will do.”  The A3 is priced starting at 20,950 euros ($28,700), while
the A6 costs a minimum 38,500 euros, according to the  ADAC 
German auto association’s 2010 yearbook. BMW’s X3 starts at
45,960 euros.  Record Sales  Audi accounted for 47 percent of Volkswagen’s operating
profit in the first nine months. The luxury unit’s deliveries
have increased more than 30 percent in the last five years,
reaching a record 1.09 million in 2010.  Audi is working with suppliers to ensure a timely stream of
components as the industry struggles to keep up with the
recovery in demand, Schwarzenbauer said. The company expects to
achieve “double-digit” vehicle-sales growth in China and the
U.S. this year and aims to grow in a stagnant European market,
he said, adding that industrywide global sales will probably
increase by 5 percent to 62 million vehicles.  “High demand and scarce supply can help their economies of
scale and may let them pass on higher input prices and reduce
incentives,” said Frank Biller, an analyst at Landesbank Baden-
Wuerttemberg in Stuttgart. “But you have to make sure not be too
close to the edge - you have to keep buyers happy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 