-- RBA's Corbett Says `Conservative' Consumers May Contain Inflation Pressure
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2011-02-08T07:24:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/australia-s-conservative-consumers-may-keep-lid-on-rates-corbett-says.html
Australian consumers have become “a
lot more conservative” since the global financial crisis, a
shift that may ease the central bank’s job of cooling inflation,  Reserve Bank  of Australia board member Roger Corbett said.  “One could argue that is a good thing because if that is
maintained in a reasonably sensible and constrained way we don’t
see rampant demand running away,” Corbett, 68, the chairman of  Fairfax Media Ltd . and a former chief executive officer of the
nation’s biggest retailer, said in an interview in Sydney today.
“Then obviously you don’t need to take the monetary policy
decision you’d need to take if you’ve got rampant demand.”  Australian retail sales declined last quarter, a report
showed yesterday, and Myer Holdings Ltd., the nation’s largest
department store chain, cut its profit forecast for the 2011
financial year. In the short term, Australia’s economy may be
disrupted by floods and a cyclone, disasters that Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said in the Australian newspaper today may cause a
first-quarter contraction in gross domestic product.  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens left the overnight cash rate
target at 4.75 percent last week, after seven increases from
October 2009 to November 2010.  Higher borrowing costs helped slow third-quarter growth
last year and the nation’s savings have risen, even as energy
and mining investments brought unemployment to the lowest level
since January 2009.  Low Joblessness    Australia  is going through this wonderful, wonderful”
period of strong mining investment and low unemployment, Corbett
said.  Australian employers probably added 17,500 workers in
January and the jobless rate remained at 5 percent, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of 18 economists before a Feb. 10 report.  The nation recorded its biggest annual gain in employment
on record in 2010 as resource and energy companies boosted
hiring to meet demand from  China  in what the RBA has called a
once-in-a-century mining boom.  “The great danger that people are concerned about is
clearly a wage blowout,” said Corbett, one of nine members of
the central bank’s policy-setting board and a former CEO of
Woolworths Ltd. “People are interested to see if there’s
responsible behavior by both employers and by employees and
their representatives under the new industrial relations
regime.”  Two-Speed Economy  Australia’s retail sales and dwelling construction have
weakened as the  mining industry  strengthens in the resource-rich
states of Queensland and  Western Australia , underscoring the
two-speed nature of the country’s economy.  Australian retail sales, adjusted to remove inflation, fell
0.3 percent in the three months through Dec. 31 from the
previous quarter.  Myer said yesterday net profit after tax in the year ending
June 2011 will be as much as 5 percent less than a year earlier,
compared with a previous forecast for growth of 5 percent to 10
percent.  “Sales across many categories were impacted by price
deflation as a result of increased discounting, as well as the
strong Australian dollar, which made purchasing overseas more
attractive,” Bernie Brookes, Myer’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement.  Corbett, who was reappointed last year to a five-year term
on the RBA board, characterized the economy as a “bipolar
situation” that needed to be addressed using fiscal rather than
monetary policy.  ‘Major Issue’  He said the federal government’s failure to reconcile the
demands of state governments and mining companies is a “major
issue” that the result of last year’s federal election, in
which no party secured a majority, has made even harder.  “You can’t, in any location, please all the people all the
time and that is particularly so when you’re making political
decisions,” he said. “The current hung parliament situation
where the government is dependent upon the interest of three or
four independents, who clearly have a brief to look after their
electorates as a first requirement, is not a good place for
Australia to be. The sooner that’s resolved, the better.”  His comments follow fellow RBA board member Warwick McKibbin’s criticism of the government’s proposed levy to help
pay for the reconstruction of Queensland following floods,
instead of doing so via debt.  Swan called those comments “silly.”  To contact the reporter for this story:  Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  