-- Australia Power Producers May Sell $13 Billion in Debt
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-02-08T02:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/australia-power-producers-may-sell-13-billion-in-debt-to-fund-new-plants.html
Australian power producers including  Origin Energy Ltd .,  AGL Energy Ltd . and TRUenergy Holdings Pty
may issue as much as A$13 billion ($13.2 billion) in debt to
finance new gas-fired plants and wind farms, Fitch Ratings said.  Power generators in Australia may fund the rest of the
forecast spending -- as much as A$25 billion through 2016 --
with cash and share sales, Fitch said in a report today. Those
estimates assume the government puts a price on  carbon emissions ,
increasing the cost of burning fossil fuels like coal.    Julia Gillard , who pledged to restart an effort to tackle
climate change after replacing Kevin Rudd as prime minister last
year, has said lawmakers must decide in 2011 on a way to impose
a cost on greenhouse gas pollution. Coal accounts for more than
80 percent of power production in  Australia .  “The market should have appetite for low-carbon emission
generation to diversify portfolios,” Arnon Musiker, a Sydney-
based analyst at Fitch, said by telephone. One risk facing
companies planning new plants is “the market perceives they are
raising more debt than their business profiles can support
because power is not the only thing they have exposure to.”  Sydney-based Origin Energy, for example, is
ConocoPhillips’s partner in the proposed  Australia Pacific
liquefied natural gas project  in Queensland state, he said. The
Australian government is due to decide this month whether to
approve the LNG venture.  The outlook for the successful bidders in the New South
Wales state power asset sale -- Origin and TRUenergy -- depends
on whether they raise enough equity to “restore financial
flexibility to pre-acquisition levels,” according to Fitch.
TRUenergy is a unit of Hong Kong-based  CLP Holdings Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 