-- Australia Can Delay Surplus Goal Without Jeopardizing AAA Rating, S&P Says
-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-08T06:23:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/australia-has-room-to-postpone-surplus-goal-s-p-s-curry-says.html
  Australia  has room to delay its goal
of returning to a  budget surplus  by 2013 and pay for two months
of natural disasters without jeopardizing its AAA credit rating,
a  Standard & Poor’s  analyst said.  More  government borrowing  to pay for reconstruction that
economists say will cost as much as A$20 billion ($20.2 billion)
and delaying the return to surplus by a year won’t affect the
top rating, S&P sovereign credit analyst Kyran Curry said today
in a phone interview from  Melbourne . Australian government bonds
were the world’s best performers over the past year.  “The government has a strong enough balance sheet in the
first instance to cope with additional spending and it doesn’t
immediately affect the rating itself,” Curry said. “If the
surplus slips one year, it’s not materially going to impact on
the rating, given the balance sheet is in strong shape to wear
an additional year of deficits.”  Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  has promised to cut budget
programs to deliver a A$3.1 billion surplus in 2012-13, even as
a series of disasters adds billions in emergency spending. She
has proposed a A$1.8 billion levy on middle and high-income
earners, A$2.8 billion in budget cuts and A$1 billion in delayed
spending to rebuild after the floods alone.  Supports RBA View  S&P’s analysis supports the view of  Reserve Bank  of
Australia board member Warwick McKibbin, who last month derided
lawmakers’ “fetish” for avoiding budget deficits. McKibbin
said borrowing is a “far better strategy” than Gillard’s
proposed tax.  Fires in  Western Australia  in the past three days have
destroyed 68 structures including homes and businesses; Tropical
Cyclone Yasi tore through sugar- and banana-producing areas last
week; and two months of flooding in Queensland have killed 35
people, shut mines and wiped out crops.  “Notwithstanding these additional pressures on the
spending side, the fiscal position will return to a stable one
over the medium term and that will continue to support the
ratings,” Curry said.  The shortfall in the fiscal year ending June 30 will be
A$41.5 billion and the deficit will be A$12.3 billion the
following year, according to budget forecasts released in
November.  ‘Relatively Small’  “The deficits are relatively small given what’s happening
in the U.K. or Japan or some of the other European sovereigns,”
Curry said.  The Australian government has A$180 billion of bonds
outstanding, part of gross public debt that equates to 22
percent of the economy, the second-smallest among 24 developed
markets, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark 10-year bond yield was little changed at 5.74
percent as of 4:16 p.m. in Sydney, from 5.52 percent on Jan. 31.  Australian  government bonds  maturing in 10 years or more
delivered a 22 percent return for investors over the past 12
months, the best performance among developed markets, according
to indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analyst Societies and Bloomberg.  The floods may cut 0.5 percentage point from national
economic growth in the year ending June 30, Gillard has said.
Gillard’s minority Labor government needs to convince
independent lawmakers to support the flood levy law after it is
introduced in Parliament on Feb. 10.  Opposition Proposal  The opposition Liberal-National coalition won’t back the
levy and instead today proposed A$2 billion in savings. The
proposal included a deferral of A$448 million in aid for Islamic
schools in  Indonesia  and A$600 million from a plan to divert
water away from irrigators in the Murray-Darling Basin.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan , in a speech last month, called
borrowing to fund reconstruction “the soft option.”  “The right thing to do is to pay-as-we-go for the public
reconstruction efforts,” Swan said in the Jan. 28 speech in
Brisbane. “Applying some fiscal restraint to other parts of the
economy frees up resources to help rebuild after the floods, and
reduces pressure on our growing national economy.”  The cost of rebuilding after Yasi will be “considerably
higher” than A$2 billion,  Stephen Roberts , senior economist at
Nomura Australia Ltd., wrote in a Feb. 3 report. Yasi will trim
economic growth 0.6 percentage point in the first quarter and
mean higher banana, beef and sugar prices, he wrote.  Curry said the main issue affecting the  credit rating  is
the quality of the banking system. The government is due to
introduce laws to help customers switch lenders and allow
financial providers to issue covered bonds as part of a package
to increase banking competition.  “The main thing that is impacting on the rating is the
credit quality of the banking system given how high the current
account deficit is, that is something we are more focused on,”
Curry said. “It remains capitalized and profitable -- it has
been responsive to the pressures placed on it in the last few
years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  