-- Baby Gear Maker Skip Hop Pushes Beyond Target and Pottery Barn
-- B y   K a r e n   E .   K l e i n
-- 2011-02-08T15:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/baby-gear-maker-skip-hop-pushes-beyond-target-and-pottery-barn.html
A few months after her first baby was born in 2000, Ellen
Diamant had a business idea that might seem obvious to any parent who has ever
struggled to carry a diaper bag while maneuvering infant, stroller, and packages: a new
design that would attach to the stroller, making the bag’s contents easily accessible.  Over the next year, Diamant, an art director and graphic designer who had worked in
the fashion and publishing industries, began sketching a new kind of bag, one with
special stroller attachment clips and a contemporary look that was miles from what she
calls “Winnie-the-Pooh styling.”  By 2002, Ellen had a prototype she dubbed the Duo Diaper Bag that she tested with
friends and colleagues. By the next year the bag was popular with local mothers clubs
and play groups Ellen visited. The product’s success persuaded Ellen and her husband,
Michael, a serial entrepreneur who built his first successful Web design company in the
early 1990s, to launch  Skip Hop  in the fall of 2003 to design, manufacture, and sell an
expanded line of products for parents, from diaper bags to toys and nursery bedding.  The couple invested $50,000 to get the company started -- despite having lost $500,000
on Michael’s second business venture, iClips, a year earlier. The failure of that company
-- an early video-sharing site -- was difficult. “You feel like you don’t know what’s going
to happen, you can’t pay your vendors, you’re laying people off,” Michael recalls. Along
with their own investment, iClips lost more than $6.5 million in venture capital and
money from friends and family. “It’s awkward at dinner, at least for a few years,” he
says.  Today Skip Hop employs 31 and sells a range of product types to specialty, chain, and
online retailers in the U.S. and overseas, including branded lines at Target and co-
branded toys and bags at Pottery Barn Kids. Ellen says the New York City company
had $20 million in revenue in 2010 and projects $25 million this year, a quarter from
international sales.  MORE IMPACT THAN YOU’D EXPECT  Small, nimble innovators such as Skip Hop have had an outsize impact on the juvenile
market, says  Ali Wing,  the founder of baby products retailer Giggle. For years, the baby
industry was dominated by huge corporate players and tiny neighborhood boutiques.
“To have designers who can bring innovations to market, with the greater scale and
replication Skip Hop has achieved, has forced change on the larger market,” she says.  Gartner analyst Janet Suleski sees this juvenile products market growing, particularly
in “emerging economies such as China,  Brazil ,  India , and some smaller markets, such
as  Turkey .” She notes that smaller competitors can be more nimble than larger
competitors, bringing products to market more quickly. “What smaller companies lack,
however, is supply chain power to mass-produce large numbers of those innovative
items quickly, so it may not be possible to meet the full demand,” she says.  Early on, the Diamants introduced the $49.99 Duo at a New York City trade show. It
was an immediate hit, with a dozen retailers signing on to carry it. Michael didn’t take
long to realize that baby products had gone global via the Internet: “You bring a new
product to market, and moms get excited about it, and the whole world knows about it
tomorrow.” The company spent at least $100,000 for a high-quality online presence,
including photography, advertising, branding, and a Web store. Ellen says she drew on
her publishing background to put a professional face on the company’s look and feel.
“We wanted to be trendsetters,” she says. “We didn’t want to look like a mom-and-pop,
which does not inspire confidence.”  Other than establishing a robust online presence, Michael Diamant says driving Skip
Hop’s overseas sales is about finding strong distributors, vetting them, and granting
them exclusive sales rights. “A good distributor for us has other lines we respect and is
already selling to retailers we like. When we research a market, we find out what the big
four retailers are, what brands they carry, whether the distributor sells there, and what
kind of volume they’re doing,” he says. He adds that setting up yearly minimum sales is
an important spur for distributors to invest in the Skip Hop brand. “The distributor has to
spend money to promote you, and you have to give them time to build the business. If
you become known as a good supplier, the word spreads.”  KEY STEP: DISTRIBUTION IN  CHINA   Pricing is also crucial to Skip Hop’s overseas sales, especially since many of its
products are subject to duty rates as high as 18 percent. A few years ago, Skip Hop
opened a distribution center in China, where its products are manufactured. That allows
distributors to retrieve product in China rather than having it shipped to the U.S. and
then back overseas again. “I used to have to charge 20 percent more to cover shipping
and U.S. duties, and the price of the bag went up to $90 in Europe. You don’t want to be
an expensive import. You want to be competitive,” Michael says.  Of course, selling overseas is as frustrating as it is lucrative for Skip Hop. “We exceed
the safety laws in the U.S., but some markets don’t have laws, and retailers set their
own rules that don’t meet any known standards,” he says. “These retailers want you to
do specialized tests, which get very expensive.” Brand knockoffs are a particular
problem in China, where copy-cat Skip Hop products hit the streets before the real thing
hits the shelves. The company hires shoppers to purchase the knockoffs from “shady
characters,” Michael says, and they bring the evidence to local authorities, who will
usually shut counterfeiters down.  Selling in 54 countries means having to use dynamic tactics to stanch intellectual
property theft, Ellen says. The company applies for international patents and uses
technology available through such online retailers as eBay and Alibaba.com to foil
thieves. It relies on its overseas distributors to report knockoffs, but they are still
common. “It happens all the time. All we can do is hope that our branding is what
people really want,” Ellen says. The company’s top overseas markets are in the U.K.,  Spain , and Japan, but its products are sold in such far-flung places as Dubai and  Poland .  Although many small business owners grumble about  government regulation  and
business laws, Michael says selling overseas has made him grateful for countries with
strong protections and legal remedies. “If a New Zealand Costco is carrying
counterfeits, we can send them a letter, and they’ll pull them off the shelves the next
day,” he says. “I want the rules. They work for me.”  In the long term, the Diamants hope to maintain the 40 percent growth they’ve achieved
in recent years. They plan to localize websites better for their top international markets,
and Ellen is working on designs for products that may not sell well in the U.S. but are
big sellers overseas. For instance, a European distributor recently asked for Skip Hop
“reins,” the kind of leash attachments for wayward toddlers that are not terribly popular
in the U.S. but are used widely in  Europe . Skip Hop is also working on bedding that
matches international mattress and crib sizes that differ from American standards. “We
want to round out our categories to offer overall solutions for parents, so we’re a one-
stop solution for bath, bedding, toys, and on-the-go categories,” Ellen says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Karen E. Klein at  karen@kareneklein.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Nick Leiber at
 nleiber@bloomberg.net  