-- Bipartisan Senator Group Backs Line-Item Veto for Obama on Deficit Concern
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2011-02-08T22:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/bipartisan-senator-group-backs-line-item-veto-for-obama-on-deficit-concern.html
A bipartisan group of U.S. senators
is reviving a long-stalled proposal to give the president a form
of the line-item veto amid mounting concern over the deficit.  The plan falls short of the line-item veto enjoyed by many
governors that allows them to delete individual spending
provisions in bills passed by their state legislatures. The  Supreme Court  has ruled that for the federal government such
proposals would violate the U.S. Constitution.  Instead, the modified proposal would let the president
return to Congress items he objects to and require lawmakers to
approve or reject them. The measure is aimed at killing
individual provisions buried in spending bills the president is
currently required to accept or reject in their entirety.  “I think the mood has changed,” said Senator Rob Portman,
an Ohio Republican who was President  George W. Bush ’s budget
director. “The legislative line-item veto is an important tool
in our toolbox to rebuild our fiscal house.”  Portman is one of 31 senators sponsoring the modified line-
item veto. Others include Republican  John McCain  of Arizona and
Democrat Tom Carper of Delaware.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, expressed skepticism about the line-item
proposal. He said today lawmakers should focus on the authority
they already have to cut the budget and should make those
decisions before sending a spending bill to the president.
“I’ve always been in the camp of actually doing it,” he told
reporters.  Congress in 1996 approved the full line-item veto and then-
President  Bill Clinton  used it until it was declared
unconstitutional in 1998.  To contact the reporter on this story: Brian Faler in Washington
at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  