-- Bob Geldof Gets Ironic; Streets Exit in Style: CD Reviews
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2011-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/bob-geldof-gets-ironic-streets-exit-in-style-todd-s-a-hippie-cd-reviews.html
Bob Geldof, the man behind Live Aid
and Band Aid, has again done something remarkable.  He has made a halfway decent album.  It was looking likelier that  Africa ’s poverty would end
than that Geldof, now 59, would fulfill his early musical
promise. The title, “How to Compose Popular Songs That Will
Sell,” is taken from a book by Leslie Sheppard. Geldof offers
wry observations about life, love, fame and fortune. Many tracks
are appealing -- and sound a lot like somebody else. That’s no
bad thing.  “Blow Fish” has a hint of Tom Waits; “Here’s to You”
has a twist of Lennon. Still, nothing has the immediacy of “I
Don’t Like Mondays” or “This is the World Calling.”  Geldof has had a rocky road since the Boomtown Rats split.
His solo debut “Deep in the Heart of Nowhere” had help from
friends  Eric Clapton , Midge Ure and Annie Lennox. It didn’t set
the world on fire. “Vegetarians of Love” and “Sex, Age &
Death” fared worse. The compilation “Great Songs of
Indifference” is his best, followed by this one. Rating: ***.  U.K. musician Mike Skinner says the fifth album by  The
Streets , “Computers and Blues,” will be the last under that
alias. It’s a high note to bow out on.  Skinner’s rap avoids machine-gun swearing and macho
swagger. He peppers his songs with references from Brixton, not  Brooklyn . Stateside listeners needing a translation of the
Britspeak might therefore pass on this CD, which would be a
shame because it’s full of street-smart observations.  There are cautionary tales about the dangers of using
satellite navigation for finding your way, Facebook for
friendship or search engines for answers.  “You can’t Google the solution to people’s feelings,”
Skinner says in “Puzzled by People.”  Rating: ****.  Those who like the Streets’ geezerish tales also might
savor “Live: The Storyteller” by Todd Snider.  In live shows, the Oregon singer adds comical anecdotes
between his alt-country songs. This double CD contains the best.
Snider’s sob story of quitting the high-school football team
after eating psychedelic mushrooms is fun.  This is followed by a ditty called “Conservative
Christian, Right-Wing Republican, Straight, White, American
Males.” These are just the sort of people, Snider sings, who
hate “tree-huggin’, peace-lovin’, pot-smokin’, barefootin’,
folk-singin’ hippies like me.”  It’s not a serious political rant, just an anthem for
doomed flower power. Arlo Guthrie, watch out: There’s a new kid
on the block stealing your “Alice’s Restaurant” shtick.  Rating: ***.  Download fees vary across services. The CDs are priced from
$12.98 in the U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K.  Geldof is on Mercury, with the CD out now in the U.K. and
on Feb. 15 in the U.S. The Streets album is on Atlantic in the
U.K. and will be released by Warner in the U.S. on Feb. 15.
Snider’s album is out now in the U.S. and on Feb. 14 in the U.K.
on Aimless Records.  Information:  http://www.toddsnider.net/fr_home.cfm ,
 http://www.bobgeldof.info/ ,  http://the-streets.co.uk/ .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 