-- Bogie’s Detective, Curtis’s Flack Get No Love From Oscar: Film
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/bogart-s-sharp-detective-curtis-s-flack-get-no-oscar-love-peter-rainer.html
This year’s Oscar nominations
featured the usual surplus of snubs. The most-commented upon was
the absence of  Christopher Nolan  (“Inception”) from the
quintet of anointed directors.  Whatever one thinks of that movie -- and I’m not a big fan
--- it is nothing if not directed to the max. So was Nolan’s
  Dark Knight ” (2008), which unlike “Inception” wasn’t even
nominated for best picture. If Nolan wants to win an Oscar, his
next movie better not contain a single special effect.  The list of past Oscar snubs and slights could fill a thick
book, but some of the more egregious omissions are truly
flabbergasting.    Charlie Chaplin ’s supreme comedy “City Lights” (1931) was
nominated for nada. (The best-picture winner that year was the
perishable “Cimarron.”) Preston Sturges’s script for “The
Lady Eve” (1941), probably the closest Hollywood has ever come
to Wildean wit, also drew a blank.  The original 1933 “King Kong”? Zippo.  Fred Astaire wasn’t recognized for any of his musicals. His
only nomination was for “The Towering Inferno” (1974), a movie
he should have danced away from.  Edward G. Robinson was consistently ignored, even for his
classic performance as the insurance company bloodhound in
“Double Idemnity” (1944). Like so many other movie legends
(for example, Greta Garbo, Alfred Hitchcock, Cary Grant, Peter O’Toole and Barbara Stanwyck) who never won for a particular
movie, Robinson had to settle for a consolation prize -- an
honorary statuette. It was awarded to him in 1973, several
months after he had the bad form to kick the bucket.  Bogie Bypassed  Humphrey Bogart wasn’t nominated as Sam Spade in “The
Maltese Falcon” (1941) or Fred C. Dobbs in “The Treasure of
the Sierra Madre” (1948), two of his most iconic roles.  Love musicals? Perhaps the best of them, “Singin’ in the
Rain” (1952), wasn’t on the short list for best picture in the
same year that Cecil B. DeMille’s deadweight circus movie “The
Greatest Show on Earth” won.  Tony Curtis’s performance as the conniving press agent
Sidney Falco in “Sweet Smell of Success’ (1957), the template
for just about every hustling huckster performance that has come
since, was blanked out.  Sam Peckinpah wasn’t recognized in 1969 for his peerless
direction of “The Wild Bunch.” That was the same year that
“They Shoot Horses, Don’t They?” was nominated for nine Oscars
-- but not for best picture.  The reverse happened to Bruce Beresford, whose “Driving
Miss Daisy” (1989) won for best picture even though he wasn’t
nominated for best director. Apparently the movie directed
itself.  ‘Godfather’ Cinematographer  It’s one thing if a masterpiece that was totally
unrecognized at the time -- like, say, “The Night of the
Hunter” (1955) -- was ignored by the Academy. But what to make
of Gordon Willis, whose deep-hued cinematography on “The
Godfather” (1972) and “The Godfather II” (1974) -- arguably
the two greatest color films ever shot by an American -- wasn’t
even nominated?  Neither was his work on “Manhattan” (1979) or “All the
President’s Men” (1976). He eventually racked up two
nominations -- for “Zelig” (1983) and “The Godfather III”
(1990) -- and, in 2009, the inevitable honorary Oscar. Maybe
it’s because he spent his entire career in  New York , not
Hollywood.  Speaking of “Godfather III,” that’s the only Oscar for
best score that Nino Rota ever won. So much for “The Leopard”
and for all those great Fellini movies like “La Strada,” “8
1/2” and “La Dolce Vita,” which weren’t even nominated for
their music.  ‘Laura’ Score  And then there’s composer David Raksin, whose score for
“Laura” (1944) contains one of the most beloved of all
American pop melodies. His work went unnominated because Darryl
Zanuck, the head of Twentieth Century Fox, chose instead to push
the score for the studio’s pretentious dud “Wilson.”  The John Kander-Fred Ebb song “New York, New York,” from
the eponymous 1977 Martin Scorsese movie, is another great
standard that got the Oscar shaft. The winner that year was
“You Light Up My Life.”  Memo to Chris Nolan: You’re in honorable company.    Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own).  To contact the writer responsible for this story:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  