-- Brazil's Futures Yields Fall on China Interest-Rate Increase; Real Rises
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o s u e   L e o n e l
-- 2011-02-08T16:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/brazil-s-futures-yields-fall-on-china-interest-rate-increase-real-rises.html
Yields on Brazilian interest-rate
futures contracts headed to the biggest drop since October amid
growing speculation that President Dilma Rousseff’s
administration is nearly finished with a plan to cut spending.  The yield on the contract due January 2013 fell 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 12.73 percent at 11:29 a.m.
New York time. The yield dropped by 16 basis points on Oct. 14.  Rousseff will hold a cabinet meeting today to discuss plans
to slash between 40 billion reais ($24 billion) and 50 billion
reais from this year’s budget and the cuts are likely to be
announced on Feb. 10, according to an article published on the
website of Sao Paulo-based news service IG. Planning Minister
Miriam Belchior said on Jan. 28 the government will announce the
spending cuts for 2011 between Feb. 10 and 12.  “What’s happening in  Brazil  is expectations of an imminent
fiscal adjustment package,”  Siobhan Morden , head of Latin
America strategy at RBS Securities Inc., said, referring to
today’s drop in yields during a telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “Right now we’re in a phase where let’s
be prepared for some news. Some news is better than no news.”  Rousseff, in a speech at the opening session of Congress
Feb. 2, told lawmakers she is committed to “maintaining a
macro-economic policy compatible with fiscal balance, a firm
control of inflation and rigorous use of public money.” The
country’s budget surplus before interest payments, the so-called
primary surplus, reached 2.8 percent of gross domestic product
last year, falling short of the government’s 3.1 percent target.  Inflation  Brazilian prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index,
rose 0.83 percent last month, the national statistics agency
said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The monthly gain was more than a
0.81 percent median estimate among 32 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts also fell after  China  increased borrowing costs, driving down commodities and
easing the outlook for Brazil’s inflation.  The Bloomberg Base Metals Spot Price Commodity Index sank
1.8 percent after the People’s Bank of China raised the one-year
deposit and lending rates by 0.25 percentage point each to cool
the economy.  “The prospect of deceleration in China may bring some
relief for commodity prices,” said  Luciano Rostagno , chief
strategist at CM Capital Markets Ltda., the third-biggest
currency broker on the BM&FBovespa SA exchange.  The real strengthened 0.7 percent to 1.6687 per dollar,
from 1.6795 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net 
Josue Leonel in  Sao Paulo  at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  