-- Brazil Inflation Quickened to Fastest Pace Since 2005
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 2011-02-08T12:40:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/brazil-s-inflation-quickened-to-fastest-monthly-pace-since-2005-in-january.html
  Brazil ’s consumer prices rose in
January at the fastest pace since 2005, fueled by food prices
and an increase in bus fares at the start of the year.  Prices, as measured by the benchmark IPCA index, rose 0.83
percent last month, pushing the annual rate to 5.99 percent, the
national  statistics agency  said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The
monthly gain, more than a 0.81 percent median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of 32 analysts, matched the November 2010 rate,
which was the fastest since a 0.87 percent jump in April 2005.  A jump in food prices coupled with domestic demand are
stoking inflation, which has exceeded the midpoint of the
central bank’s target range in the past five months. Traders are
wagering the central bank will lift the benchmark interest rate
for a second straight time next month in a bid to contain the
fastest inflation in 26 months.  “Commodity prices became a challenge for monetary policy
across the world and explains why the central bank resumed
interest rate increases,”  Roberto Padovani , chief economist at
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said in a phone interview. “In
Brazil, the issue is what are the tools available to contain
inflation and what will be the size of interest rate
increases.”  Yields on interest rate futures contract maturing Jan.
2012, the most traded in Sao Paulo, fell two basis points to
12.34 percent at 7:11 a.m. New York time. The real strengthened
0.2 percent to 1.6755 per  U.S. dollar .  Transportation  Transportation costs rose 1.55 percent in January, fueled
by a 4.13 percent increase in bus fares. Food prices rose 1.16
percent, less than the 1.32 percent jump in December. Meat
prices, which had been fueling inflation, fell 0.19 percent
after a 2.25 percent increase in December, the agency said.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said he expects inflation to
begin slowing in March as transportation costs and school fees
begin to ease. Increases in global commodity prices pushed
inflation higher in January, he told reporters in Brasilia.  Brazilian food prices may decline as the country’s crops
enter the market, according to the Agriculture Ministry, which
said in an e-mailed report that farmers have already harvested
about 80 percent of this year’s crop.  Global food costs monitored by the  United Nations  jumped 25
percent last year, reaching a record in December. There have
been protests in Algeria and  Egypt  while governments from
Beijing to Belgrade are increasing imports, limiting their
exports or releasing stockpiles.    Interest Rates   Policy makers raised the overnight rate last month to 11.25
percent from 10.75 percent and said they will rely on higher
borrowing costs and measures to curb credit growth to rein in
consumer prices.  The central bank in December raised capital and reserve
requirements for local banks to slow  consumer lending , removing
61 billion reais from circulation. The higher  capital
requirements  are aimed at reducing the maturity of consumer
loans, especially for car purchases.  While traders, according to yields on interest rate
futures, are wagering the central bank will push rates up to 13
percent by year end, Padovani forecast the Selic won’t surpass
12.25 percent as inflation starts to ease in the second quarter.  Brazil targets inflation of 4.5 percent and has a plus or
minus two percentage point leeway to accommodate for price
shocks.  To slow inflation, the central bank is also counting on
spending cuts to ensure a budget surplus before interest
payments equal to 3 percent of gross domestic product, according
to the minutes of their Jan. 18-19 meeting.  The central bank’s assumptions about fiscal policy would
require President  Dilma Rousseff  to slash the 2011 budget by at
least 70 billion reais ($41.7 billion),  Alexandre Schwartsman ,
chief economist of Banco Santander SA in  Sao Paulo , wrote in a
note to clients yesterday.  Schwartsman said yesterday in an interview from Sao Paulo
that inflation this year could exceed the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the bank’s target range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Ragir in Rio de Janeiro at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  