-- Breast Cancer Surgery to Remove Extra Lymph Nodes Doesn't Help Survival
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/breast-cancer-surgery-to-remove-extra-lymph-nodes-doesn-t-help-survival.html
Removing lymph nodes from the armpits
of women undergoing surgery for  breast cancer  may not always be
needed to prevent recurrence, according to a study that may
change routine treatment in about 20 percent of cases.  Breast cancer patients in current medical practice 
generally have one or two “sentinel” lymph nodes removed and
tested as part of their surgery. If tumor cells are found, more
nodes are cut off and tested in a procedure that can cause side
effects such as swelling and limited arm mobility.  The study published yesterday in the  Journal of the
American Medical Association  found that women who had multiple
lymph nodes removed were no more likely to survive than patients
who had one or two of the nodes closest to the cancer taken for
testing. The study may alter the typical treatment for thousands
of patients with early breast cancer, researchers said.  “This study and others like it may ultimately change the
standard for breast surgery among women with breast cancer,”
said Otis Brawley, chief medical officer of the  American Cancer
Society , in an e-mail. “It may also lead to breast cancer
treatments that cause less harm.”  The study followed 891 women who received chemotherapy and
radiation and had lumpectomies, the removal of noticeable
tumors. The study didn’t include women who had mastectomies, in
which a full breast is removed.  All the women had a sentinel node removed and tested as
part of their surgery. If cancer was found in the node,
additional lymph nodes were taken in one group of women. Another
group received follow-up treatment only of chemotherapy or
radiation.  No Greater Benefit  The women who had multiple nodes removed had no greater
survival benefit than those who had only a single node taken
away because radiation and chemotherapy were sufficient to halt
their malignancies, the researchers wrote.  Julie Gralow, a breast cancer doctor, said she and her
colleagues at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance are changing
their advice to patients as a result of the findings, which were
presented last year at medical meetings.  “We decided that for patients who met the exact criteria
of the study, we would tell them it was now an option not to
have their lymph nodes removed,” Gralow said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  Breast cancer is the most common solid tumor in women,
striking an estimated 207,000 American women in 2010 and killing
about 40,000, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  “Implementation of this  practice change  would improve
clinical outcomes in thousands of women each year,” the
researchers wrote. Changes at hospitals would reduce surgery
complications and improve quality of life, they said.  Killing Stray Cells  Surgeons removed all the lymph nodes for decades to
determine how far the cancer has spread and to eradicate any
stray malignant cells that may cause recurrences, said
researcher Kelly Hunt, chief of Surgical Breast Oncology at the
University of Texas’s  M.D. Anderson Cancer Center  in Houston.
The study results show that isn’t necessary for some patients,
she said.  “After you identify who has positive lymph nodes, it’s not
removing additional nodes that is important, it’s getting
patients the right therapy,” Hunt said. “This is higher risk
cancer that has already spread and has the potential to spread
more. Our focus needs to be on treating those cells that may
have gone to other organs, rather than focusing on the breast
and more surgery.”  While everyone in the study had  cancer  in their sentinel
lymph nodes, only 28 percent had involvement of other lymph
nodes. Chemotherapy, radiation and hormonal therapy took care of
the malignant cells that had spread to other nodes, Hunt said
yesterday in a telephone interview.  “It’s just been ingrained in our surgical training for
decades, that to do an appropriate cancer operation you need to
remove all the lymph nodes just to be safe,” Hunt said. “With
the chemotherapy and hormonal therapy we have now, we don’t need
patients to submit to these more aggressive surgical
procedures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Waters in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Cortez in Chicago at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  