-- British Pound Declines Versus Euro After Osborne Raises Bank Taxes Early
-- B y   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 2011-02-08T16:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/british-pound-falls-versus-euro-after-osborne-raises-bank-taxes-early.html
The pound weakened against the euro
for the first day in five after U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  increased a tax on banks, constraining an
industry that accounts for about 8 percent of the economy.  Sterling slid against all but one of its 16 most-actively
traded peers. The extra levy will raise 800 million pounds ($1.3
billion) as Britain’s government tries to plug a record budget
deficit. Osborne, who is negotiating lending and pay targets
with British banks and aiming to stem the U.K. budget deficit,
said on BBC Radio 4 that he’s raising the tax earlier than
anticipated because lenders’ stability has improved.  “Sterling has been sold across the board after Mr.
Osborne’s comments,” said  Neil Jones , head of European hedge
fund sales at  Mizuho Corporate Bank  in  London . “It’s a knee-
jerk reaction to the higher bank levy. The U.K. economy, whether
you like it or not, is still heavily reliant on the financial
sector, so anything that adversely affects it will be reflected
in the currency.”  The pound depreciated 0.8 percent to 85.00 pence per euro
at 4:34 p.m. in London. Britain’s currency lost 0.1 percent to
$1.6098, a fourth straight day of losses.  The U.K. will temporarily charge banks 0.1 percent on
short-term liabilities and 0.05 percent for long-term
liabilities in March and April, according to a statement from
the Treasury today. The levy will enable the government to raise
2.5 billion pounds in the current financial year ending in
April, rather than in future years as was originally intended.  Financial Levy  Britain’s government aims to raise 10 billion pounds by
2015 by taxing bank balance sheets as it tries to reduce its
fiscal deficit from an estimated 10 percent of gross domestic
product in the year through March to 1.9 percent five years from
now. The financial-services industry generates about 12 percent
of U.K. tax revenue, according to estimates by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and the government of the  City of
London , the financial district’s municipal authority.  “The market’s focus on the bank levy is purely because of
the lack of any other data,” said Elizabeth Gregory, a Geneva-
based market strategist at ACM Advanced Currency Markets, which
handles about $150 billion of foreign-exchange trades a month.
“Over the longer term, the effect of the levy on the pound will
pale into insignificance compared to the future trajectory of  interest rates .”  Gilt ‘Comeback’  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee, led by
Governor  Mervyn King , will leave its 0.5 percent key interest
rate unchanged when it meets on Feb. 10 even as inflation
exceeds the central bank’s 2 percent limit, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 62 economists. Inflation quickened to 3.7
percent in December, matching an April reading that was the
highest since November 2008.  Monetary policy makers are expected to increase the rate by
25 basis points, or 0.25 percentage point, to 0.75 percent in
the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey of 40
economists.  U.K. two-year notes rose for the first day in three,
pushing down the yield two basis points to 1.54 percent. The 4.5
percent security due March 2013 added 0.025, or 25 pence per
1,000-pound face amount, to 106.015.  Ten-year gilt yields were little changed at 3.84 percent.
The bonds maturing March 2020 had their biggest five-day drop
since November last week as improving economic data from the
U.K. boosted speculation the  Bank of England  will be forced to
raise borrowing costs to curb inflation.  Debt Sale  “The market has potentially gotten ahead of itself in
pricing in rate hikes,” said Jones. “At these levels they
still offer longer-term value,” he said of gilts.  Short-sterling futures rose for the first day in three,
reducing the implied yield on the contract expiring in December
by two basis points to 1.70 percent. A decline in the yield,
which is used to gauge central bank rate expectations, indicates
investors reduced bets that policy makers will increase
borrowing costs.  The U.K. 10-year breakeven rate, an indication of
investors’ inflation expectations derived from the yield gap
between conventional and index-linked bonds, rose by half a
basis point to 3.24 percent.  Britain’s government sold 1 billion pounds of inflation-
linked bonds maturing Nov. 22, 2022, according to a statement
from the Debt Management Office today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  