-- British Airways Says AMR Venture May Add $500 Million
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2011-02-08T11:42:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/british-airways-says-amr-venture-may-add-500-million-in-revenue.html
British Airways said its pact with  American Airlines  may add $500 million in sales by year’s end as
joint scheduling and new routes push the alliance’s share of the
Europe-North America air-travel market toward 25 percent.  BA, sister carrier Iberia Lineas Aereas de Espana of  Madrid 
and  AMR Corp .’s American aim to add at least “a few points” to
their 21 percent share of passengers on the world’s most
lucrative long-haul routes, Simon Talling-Smith, the U.K.
company’s vice-president for the Americas, said in an interview.  “It’s building up pretty fast,” Talling-Smith said in
London. “We’ll be operating as a pretty smooth joint business
by the end of this year. If you’ve just got a new alliance on
the go, you’d hope to get a bit of market share on the back
of that.”  British Airways, AMR and Iberia won antitrust approval for
a deeper accord in July, giving them 50 percent of U.S. flights
at London’s Heathrow airport. Each percentage point of market
share gained on the North Atlantic, where the Oneworld alliance
members compete with rivals from the Star and SkyTeam groups,
adds about $250 million in combined sales, Talling-Smith said.  International Consolidated Airlines Group SA, of which BA
and Iberia became part after merging on Jan. 25, gained as
much as 2 percent in  London  trading and was up 1.5 percent as
of 11:31 a.m., valuing the company at 5 billion pounds
($8.1 billion). The gain pares IAG’s loss since it was formed
to 5 percent.  ‘Tidy Up’  After announcing codeshares -- a type of reciprocal sales
arrangement -- and four new routes in October, the carriers are
ready to meld schedules and align pricing to tap the full
benefits of the alliance, the executive said in the interview on
Feb. 4, adding that they’ll also begin negotiating joint
contracts with corporate clients and travel agents.  “We’d like to tidy up our schedules on parallel routes so
that we space out flights and they’re not all on top of each
other,” he said. “It takes a season or two to do that.”  Traffic between  North America  and  Europe  is growing, and on
some routes originating in the U.S. has almost recovered to
levels seen in 2007 and 2008 before the global slump depressed
demand, said Talling-Smith, who spoke at Heathrow after a press
conference on a British Airways campaign to lure more  small
businesses  to use its flights.  The carrier handed out 250 free tickets to entrepreneurs as
it seeks to encourage greater travel among small-business
executives and strengthen its brand in the U.S.  Luxury Travel  British Airways aims to tap the economic rebound by
renewing first-class cabins on Boeing Co. 747s and 777s that are
used on seven daily flights between Heathrow and  New York ’s John
F. Kennedy airport, with the last plane to be finished this
month, he said.  The three carriers are also adding services to compete with
SkyTeam, led by  Air France-KLM  Group and  Delta Air Lines Inc .,
and Star, whose leading members are  Deutsche Lufthansa AG  and  United Continental Holdings Inc . Iberia will begin flying from
Madrid to  Los Angeles  on March 28 and from Barcelona to Miami a
day later, American will add New York-Budapest on April 6 and
Chicago-Helsinki May 2, and British Airways will commence
London-San Diego service on June 1.  Willie Walsh, the chief executive officer of IAG, said last
year that the AMR venture would generate more than $100 million
in annual sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  