-- British Columbia Won't Back Flaherty on National Securities Regulator Law
-- B y   P e t e r   J .   B r e n n a n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2011-02-08T19:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/british-columbia-won-t-back-flaherty-on-national-securities-regulator-law.html
British Columbia said it won’t
support the Canadian government’s proposal to set up a national
securities regulator, joining other provinces opposing the plan
that’s before the  Supreme Court .  “We continue to support the concept of a national
securities regulator,” British Columbia Finance Minister Colin Hansen said today in an e-mailed statement. “However, our
support is not without conditions,” he added, saying the
proposed legislation would infringe on provincial powers.  The announcement is a setback to Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s efforts to set up a national securities regulator.  Quebec , home to  Canada ’s  derivatives market , and energy-rich
Alberta already have refused to join the plan, which Flaherty
says would make it easier for companies to access capital and
better protect investors. Ontario, home to the financial hub of
Toronto, supports the plan.  Canada is the only member of the Group of Seven nations
without a national securities watchdog and the country will face
growing international criticism if it doesn’t create one, Tom Hockin, the country’s representative at the  International
Monetary Fund , said last month. Flaherty released  draft
legislation  in May to set up a single oversight body and
submitted it to the Supreme Court of Canada for a ruling on
whether it’s constitutional.  Supreme Court  Flaherty said today British Columbia’s position is a
“nuanced” legal argument and the issue must be ruled on by the
Supreme Court before the government makes further decisions.  “This is a matter before the courts now,” Flaherty told
reporters in Ottawa, adding the Supreme Court will hear the
legal arguments in April. “It’s out of the hands of the
politicians.”  Flaherty said British Columbia continues to work with the
federal government toward national securities regulation.
British Columbia wants a more co-operative approach to building
a national securities regulator that doesn’t involve the
surrender of provincial jurisdiction, Hansen said in  his
statement .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter J. Brennan at 
 pbrennan3@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 