-- BSkyB Earns `Excess Profits' on Sky Movies, U.K. Competition Watchdog Says
-- B y   B l a n c h e   G a t t   a n d   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2011-02-08T11:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/bskyb-earns-excess-profits-on-sky-movies-u-k-watchdog-says.html
  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc ,
the U.K.’s biggest pay-TV company, is earning too much from
showing “premium” Hollywood movies for the first time, a
regulator said.  BSkyB has “consistently” earned “excess profits” and
may earn even more on the service in the near future, the U.K.
 Competition Commission  said in a preliminary analysis of the
probe published last week on its  website .  “We believe Sky’s profitability today reflects its past
investments and its success in delivering highly valued products
to customers,” BSkyB spokeswoman Bella Vuillermoz said in an e-
mailed statement.  The probe of the market for pay-TV Hollywood movies started
in August at the request of communications regulator Ofcom,
which conducted its own investigations for three years before
finding the industry’s practices give Sky “the incentive and
ability to distort competition.”  While some excess earnings may be due to innovation or
competitor weakness, “we would not expect such profits to
persist for a significant period of time,” the  Competition
Commission  said in its report. “It appears to us that Sky’s
excess profits can no longer be explained by the risk of its
earlier investments.”  The preliminary findings come as News Corp., run by  Rupert Murdoch , seeks to avoid a full-blown antitrust investigation of
its proposed 7.8 billion-pound ($12.6 billion) acquisition of
the rest of BSkyB it doesn’t already own. The U.K. government
said it may refer the deal to the Competition Commission unless  News Corp . offers remedies such as selling some media assets.  Channel Packages  The probe covers both rights sold by movie studios to show
films on pay-TV for the first time and the supply of movie-
channel packages, the watchdog said last year.  The commission aims to publish provisional findings of its
review in April, and a final report “possibly” by the end of
the year, Rory Taylor, a spokesman for the watchdog, said by
telephone today. Such probes can take as long as two years to
complete, Taylor said last year.  BSkyB is separately awaiting the outcome of an appeal in a
related dispute with Ofcom over how much the company can charge
competitors for coverage of  FA Premier League  soccer matches.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blanche Gatt in  London  at 
 bgatt@bloomberg.net 
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 