-- Bush's EPA Chief Urged Regulating Carbon Emissions in 2008, Letter Shows
-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 2011-02-08T23:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/bush-s-epa-chief-urged-regulating-carbon-emissions-in-2008-letter-shows.html
Former President  George W. Bush ’s top
environmental regulator urged him in 2008 to limit greenhouse-
gas emissions blamed for  climate change , according to a letter
released by a Democratic lawmaker.  Stephen Johnson, head of the Environmental Protection
Agency, told Bush he was obligated to declare gases from power
plants, cars and other sources a danger to the public, according
to the Jan. 31, 2008, letter released today by Representative
Henry Waxman of  California , the ranking Democrat on the House
Energy and Commerce Committee.  Bush’s EPA chief wrote that “the latest climate change
science doesn’t permit” the administration to declare that
carbon isn’t a threat or that more research is needed.  Waxman released the letter as EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson prepared to testify tomorrow before a House energy panel
hearing examining President Barack Obama’s decision to use the
EPA to impose rules on carbon emissions. Representative Fred Upton of  Michigan , the committee chairman, is seeking to strip
the EPA of the power to regulate  greenhouse gases  and said he
doubts human activity is causing global warming.  “As Administrator Johnson’s letter makes clear, both
Republican and Democratic administrations have had the same view
of the science: carbon emissions are a serious threat to our
nation’s welfare,” Waxman said today in a letter to Upton. “I
urge you to leave the science to the scientists and drop your
effort to use legislation to overturn EPA’s endangerment
finding.”  Johnson on Dec. 18, 2008, issued a memorandum that said
carbon dioxide isn’t a pollutant the agency can regulate.  ‘Had His Chance’  Waxman is seeking to bolster the EPA and its carbon rules,
which amount to a tax on businesses and consumers, said Sean
Bonyun, an Upton spokesman. Waxman helped write a bill to limit
emissions and establish a cap-and-trade program in which
companies buy and sell the right to pollute. The bill passed the
House in 2009 and stalled in the Senate.  “Mr. Waxman had his chance to implement a national  energy
tax  last Congress and failed,” Bonyun said today in an e-mailed
statement. “Now he is conspiring with the EPA in pursuit of a
backdoor cap-and-tax scheme that will cost jobs.”  In 2007, the  Supreme Court  ruled the EPA had authority to
regulate greenhouse gases under the  Clean Air Act  if the agency
declares them a danger to the public. The court ordered the
administration to make a decision. Bush declined to move ahead
with any regulation.  Obama, who campaigned for president on a promise to cap
greenhouse gases, pushed ahead with the EPA carbon regulations
after Congress failed to pass legislation last year. The
greenhouse-gas rules took effect on Jan. 2 and currently apply
only to big polluters such as  power plants  and oil refineries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  