-- Canada Banks Won’t Press for Mergers in Review, Lobby Group Says
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/canada-banks-won-t-press-for-mergers-in-review-lobby-group-says.html
Canadian banks won’t press the
federal government to allow the lenders to merge or sell
insurance in branches during a review of industry rules next
year, the head of the  Canadian Bankers Association  said.  The next five-year bank review will probably focus on
“technical issues” related to capital, Chief Executive Officer
Nancy Hughes Anthony said.  “Those issues that talk about changing structural powers
for banks, there doesn’t seem to be any appetite for that,”
Hughes Anthony said yesterday in an interview at the
association’s Toronto headquarters. “Having gone through the
incredible upheaval in the financial crisis of the last couple
of years, these questions are really just not on right now.”  Canadian banks, ranked the world’s soundest for three
straight years by the Geneva-based  World Economic Forum , have
been prevented since 1998 from buying each other after the
federal government blocked two proposed mergers. They’ve also
been banned since 1923 from selling insurance in their bank
branches.  Those issues -- as well as requests by banks to offer auto
leasing to clients and advertise insurance services online --
aren’t likely to be pursued in the next review, Hughes Anthony
said. The government is likely to focus on issues tied to
regulation and capital management.  “We need a period where we can actually assess the
competitive position of the Canadian financial institutions, the
needs of consumers and how they’re being met,” said Hughes
Anthony, 61. “Maybe just take a bit of a pause.”  Banks Adapt  Hughes Anthony, who is retiring Feb. 28, has been with the
bank group since 2007 following a stint as CEO of the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce. The bank lobby group represents 51 domestic
banks.  The issue Hughes Anthony would most like to see resolved is
a single securities regulator for  Canada , the only msg
industrialized country in the world without one.  “I’d like to see that happen in my lifetime,” Hughes
Anthony said. “It’s an international embarrassment, and that’s
certainly unfinished business.”  Hughes Anthony will be replaced on March 1 by Terry Campbell, who has been with the organization since 1997, most
recently as a vice president of policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 