-- McDonald’s January Same-Store Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2011-02-08T21:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/mcdonald-s-same-store-sales-beat-analysts-estimates-on-demand-in-europe.html
  McDonald’s Corp ., the world’s biggest
restaurant chain, rose the most in almost nine months after it
reported a 5.3 percent rise in comparable-store sales, topping
analysts’ estimates as European sales gained the most in a year.  Analysts projected sales would rise 4.5 percent, according
to the median of five estimates. Sales increased 7 percent in  Europe , driven by new products and breakfast items, the Oak
Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a statement. That
exceeded the 4 percent gain estimated by analysts.  Europe, led by  Germany , the U.K., France and Russia, helped
propel sales, while snowstorms kept some customers home in the
U.S. McDonald’s, headed by Chief Executive Officer James Skinner, reported a 3.1 percent rise in the U.S., the smallest
monthly gain since February 2010, missing the 4.5 percent
increase predicted by analysts.  “We had a big storm that crossed the entire country from  Arizona  to Maine,” Larry Miller, an analyst at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Atlanta, said in an interview. “Stuff like that does
shut down stores.” Miller rates the shares “outperform.”  McDonald’s rose $1.91, or 2.6 percent, to $75.36 at 4 p.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest gain
since May 10. The shares advanced 23 percent last year, compared
with a 13 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Sales advanced 5.2 percent in  Asia , Africa and the Middle
East.  Comparable, or same-store sales, include locations open at
least 13 months. This kind of revenue is an indicator of growth
because new and closed locations are excluded. Total same-stores
sales rose 2.6 percent for the same period a year ago and
advanced 3.7 percent in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 Rajello@bloomberg.net  