-- Sam Laidlaw Cements Centrica's North Sea Future as BP Sells
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2011-02-08T00:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/centrica-gains-on-bp-as-laidlaw-uses-oil-experience-to-get-north-sea-gas.html
Sam Laidlaw is using three decades of
oil and gas drilling experience to make  Centrica Plc , the U.K.’s
largest utility, a competitor in the  North Sea , a region where
Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP Plc are selling assets.  Centrica pumps enough gas to supply over 5 million gas
customers, around 60 percent its U.K. total, compared with
around 37 percent four years ago. Acquisitions and a successful
drilling program -- 11 out of 15 wells were discoveries in 2010
-- will ensure the company can maintain its position as older
fields decline, said Chief Executive OfficerLaidlaw. A similar
campaign is planned for this year.  “As long as gas is being produced in the North Sea it’s
logical for us to continue to be there to satisfy our
customers,” Laidlaw, 55, whose last job was head of business
development at  Chevron Corp ., said in a Feb. 2 interview in
London. “So while a lot of the majors might be exiting, we’re
likely to stay.”  The gas field-to-boiler strategy has helped Centrica
outperform rivals. The stock has gained 24 percent in the last
year as U.K. competitor Scottish & Southern Electricity Plc
shares have remained flat and GDF Suez, Europe’s largest
utility, gained 11 percent. Centrica is expected to announce a
23 percent gain in operating profit on Feb. 24 after the coldest
U.K. December in 100 years boosted gas and power demand.  “The utilities are now doing much more -- production,
generation and supply,” said Mark Freshney, a Credit Suisse
analyst who has an “outperform” rating on the stock. “Being
right up and down the value chain helps.”  Transformed Position  Laidlaw’s $1.5 billion purchase of Venture Petroleum Corp.
in 2009 transformed Centrica’s position in the North Sea, where
it now controls the largest acreage position after BP and a
partnership between Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc ,
the executive said. Exxon said in January that it is seeking to
sell certain North Sea blocks off the U.K. coast. BP is weighing
the sale of some of its North Sea assets in the U.K., according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Windsor, England-based Centrica’s total global production
is about 175,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day, making it the
fourth-largest U.K.-based oil and gas producer after BP, Shell
and BG Group Plc.  “We will show strong reserve replacement, even though the
discoveries were small,” Laidlaw said, adding that production
from the company’s F3-FA field in the Dutch sector of the North
Sea started during the last week of January.  The takeover of Venture saw a five-month long battle before
then CEO Mike Wagstaff accepted the hostile bid. Centrica’s
existing oil and gas business was folded into Venture and the
unit now runs all of the company’s production business outside
of  North America  from Aberdeen, Laidlaw said.  Trinidad  Centrica followed by buying fields in Canada and Trinidad
last year from Canada’s Suncor Energy Inc.  “Corporately, Centrica has been very busy since Sam has
been at the helm,” Royal Bank of Canada analyst Nick Hyslop
said in a telephone interview. “Adding Venture’s production
capabilities has moved them a long way towards increasing the
energy hedge and improving how they run their gas business.”  The success of the deal may to be hard to replicate as
replacing reserves becomes more expensive, MF Global analyst
Ashley Thomas said in a telephone interview.  “Profitability from the oil and gas business will peak in
2013 because as you move to newer fields your production costs
increase,” Thomas said. “The business as a whole likely to
experience declining profitability unless they make
acquisitions,” he said.  Chevron  Prior to Chevron, Laidlaw was the CEO of Enterprise Oil
Plc, where he oversaw the sale of the oil producer to Royal
Dutch Shell for $6.2 billion in 2002. At Chevron he was
responsible for identifying and developing new business around
the world. Laidlaw trained as a lawyer and has degrees from
Cambridge and INSEAD business school.  His strategy at Centrica has been to make the utility less
exposed to changes in wholesale prices. The amount of energy the
utility purchases on global commodity markets to supply its
customers is less than 40 percent, compared with more than 80
percent in 2006, when Laidlaw started.  “The key to security of supply is about diversity of fuel
mix: renewable, gas and nuclear,” he said. The company is
seeking to lock in more long term liquefied natural gas
contracts to ship fuel into the U.K., he said. “As the third-
largest gas market in the world, the U.K. is an attractive
market to sell to.”  Gas Stays Primary  Power from combined-cycle gas-fired  power plants  is likely
to remain a primary source of energy in the U.K. as the country
adds more renewable projects, Laidlaw said. Gas-fired plants can
take as little as 18 months to build, emit less than a coal-
fired station and are relatively easy to turn on and off, making
them a good source of back-up generation.  “Since he’s taken over, their generation capability is
essentially a low carbon one and that puts Centrica in a better
position than where it was when he came in,” Hyslop said.  As one of  Europe ’s least indebted utilities, Centrica has
the resources to invest in offshore wind farms, nuclear
reactors, add power plants in the U.S. or more fields in the
North Sea.  “We’re very selective about the things we invest in
because we don’t want to pick up dismantlement liabilities,”
Laidlaw said. “The history of dismantling fields in North Sea
is not extensive and not very good.”  Operators will need to invest about $3 billion in
 decommissioning  through 2015, with a further $5 billion required
by 2020, Accenture Plc researcher Johan Nell said in October.
The process won’t really get going until after 2020 when more
than $20 billion will be needed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 