-- Cerberus Expects ‘Cheaper Entry’ on Mortgages as Lone Star Sells
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2011-02-08T20:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/cerberus-expects-cheaper-entry-on-mortgages-as-lone-star-sells.html
Investors should wait before buying
U.S. home-loan securities that lack government backing after a
rally reduced potential returns, a Cerberus Capital Management
LP official said.  “My hunch is you’ll probably have a cheaper entry point
over the next three to six months,” Josh Weintraub, head of
mortgage- and asset-backed securities trading at the New York-
based private-equity firm, said today at the American
Securitization Forum’s annual conference in  Orlando ,  Florida .  Senior bonds backed by so-called option adjustable-rate
mortgages have led recent gains among so-called non-agency
mortgage securities. The typical price of the bonds, whose
underlying loans have balances that potentially may grow, has
jumped 6 cents to 65 cents on the dollar in the past month after
falling as low as 33 cents in 2009, according to Barclays
Capital data.  The housing market is in worse shape than many observers
understand because the amount of soured loans that will
eventually turn into distressed property sales is “still pretty
massive,” Weintraub said.  While rising defaults on modified loans may contribute to
higher yield premiums in the non-agency bond market in the next
few months, the shrinking amount of the debt as a result of
foreclosures and a lack of new issuance will help support
prices, he added.  The rally in non-agency bonds has pushed Dallas-based  Lone
Star  Funds to look at selling some of its holdings, said Brooke Bushey, its director of securities acquisitions.  Lone Star has looked “to exit some of our positions, but
on a very selective basis,” she said.  The company has become more interested in investing in
unsecuritized pools of home loans, a sector where it sees
“outsized yields,” she said. Weintraub said Cerberus likes
junior slices of so-called re-remic repackagings of non-agency
securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  