-- CFTC Dealer’s ‘Club,’ EPA Rules Top List: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2011-02-08T13:04:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/cftc-dealer-s-club-epa-rules-top-list-nasdaq-compliance.html
A U.S. regulatory proposal to broaden
access to clearinghouses may help  MF Global Holdings Ltd .,  Jefferies Group Inc . and dozens of smaller banks and brokers win
entry to a market dominated by Wall Street’s biggest banks.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  has proposed a
rule that would require clearinghouses in the $583 trillion
global swaps market to open membership to companies with at
least $50 million in capital.  ICE Trust LLC , the largest U.S.
clearinghouse for credit default swaps, and  LCH.Clearnet Group ,
the world’s largest interest rate swaps clearinghouse, both
require members to have at least $5 billion in capital.  The  CFTC rule , proposed in December as part of the Dodd-
Frank financial-overhaul law, “would help break up the club”
of derivatives dealer banks on Wall Street, said  Robert Litan ,
vice president for research and policy at the  Kauffman
Foundation  in Kansas City, Missouri.  Litan, a deputy assistant attorney general in the  Justice
Department  under the Clinton administration,  wrote last  year
that a “derivatives dealers’ club” controls clearinghouses,
data providers and other parts of the market.  For the smaller banks and brokers, becoming a clearing
member instead of having to work through a third party would
provide a greater opportunity to win part of the lucrative
business of buying and selling derivatives.  Gensler said clearinghouses could “scale” a member’s
participation depending on its amount of capital. Under the
proposal, a clearinghouse could require each member to hold more
capital in proportion to its level of risk. Wall Street’s big
banks say lowering the requirements for clearinghouses, which
are capitalized by their members, may increase risk in the
market.  The new clearinghouse rule is part of efforts by the CFTC
and the U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  to write new
derivatives regulations under the Dodd-Frank law, after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis.  Currently, clearinghouses have about a dozen members each.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EPA Rules Top List of Business Complaints to Congress  American businesses, asked by a Congressional committee to
identify problematic federal rules, have identified the U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  as the issuer of just more than
half of the rules they cited.    ConocoPhillips ,  Boeing Co . and the  National Association of
Manufacturers  are among 201 companies and industry groups that
responded to Representative  Darrell Issa ’s request to identify
government rules his U.S. House  Oversight and Government Reform
Committee  should investigate. Of the 111 regulations they cited,
57 were issued by the EPA.  Issa, who became chairman of the committee last month,
planned yesterday to release a report based on the letters he
requested in December. According to copies obtained by
Bloomberg, among the rules the complained about were pesticide
permits, air-pollution standards, the Wall Street regulatory
overhaul and a proposed Energy Department rule that aims to
conserve water by restricting use of multihead  shower  fixtures.  Last month, President  Barack Obama  signed an executive
order calling for a government-wide review of regulations. Issa,
who has accused the administration of ignoring business
concerns, said in an e-mail last week he isn’t offering
“judgments or recommendations.”  The effort is meant to be a “starting point” for a
broader discussion, said Issa, 57, a California Republican.  Democrats and consumer-advocacy groups say they are
troubled that Issa didn’t ask consumer groups about the benefits
of regulations, in particular those regarding air quality or
food and product safety.  For more, click here.  Executive Compensation Limits, Deferrals to Be Weighed by FDIC  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. may propose rules
requiring financial companies to limit and defer incentive-based
executive compensation to restrict the kind of risk-taking
blamed for sparking the 2008 credit crisis.  FDIC board members, who met in Washington yesterday, were
scheduled to consider a Dodd-Frank Act requirement that federal
agencies prohibit incentive-based executive pay that might
provide “excessive compensation, fees or benefits” or lead to
material financial loss by regulated companies.  Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in July,
directed agencies to rein in executive pay. Policy makers had
faulted compensation incentives for fueling risky lending before
the credit freeze that felled  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .
forced the U.S. to bail out banks including  Citigroup Inc .  FDIC Chairman  Sheila Bair  said last month that regulators
including the  Federal Reserve  and the Treasury Department were
nearing agreement on a proposal that would require deferrals of
pay and stock awards for executives.  Bair said in a Jan. 13 CNBC television interview that the
board is “very close” to an agency agreement on a rule.
Regulators are preparing the new measures as banks increase
salaries and shift more compensation to deferred stock and
bonuses in response to criticism of pre-crisis payouts.  Housing Debate to Include Servicing Rules, Senate’s Johnson Says  The U.S.  Senate Banking Committee  will start its debate
over how to overhaul the mortgage finance system by focusing on
five issues, including improved mortgage servicing standards,
its new chairman told colleagues.  Senator Tim Johnson, the South Dakota Democrat who heads
the panel, outlined the committee’s agenda in a Feb. 2 memo to
members that was obtained by Bloomberg News. Restructuring the
housing finance system, including mortgage firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , and overseeing the implementation of the Dodd-Frank
financial regulatory overhaul will be the panel’s top
priorities, according to the memo.  The memo also lays out Johnson’s intention to conduct close
oversight of the implementation of Dodd-Frank.  Stolen Carbon Permits Won’t Enter Market, Austrian Registry Says  Austria said emissions permits traced to accounts in
Liechtenstein and Sweden after disappearing in a computer-
hacking attack last month will be blocked from trade as Europe
seeks to shore up confidence in the market.  “The illegally transferred allowances have been frozen in
accounts in Liechtenstein and Sweden,” the Austrian registry
said yesterday in a  statement  on its website.  Legal questions about some 49 million euros ($66 million)
worth of permits stolen in at least five countries have shaken a
market valued last year at $110 billion. The carbon futures
market wasn’t halted by the crisis.  For more, click here.  Banks Face Tougher Capital Rules for Derivatives Under EU Plan  Banks may be forced to hold more capital to protect them
from losses on derivatives trades and securities repurchase
agreements under European Union proposals.  The possible measures, designed to cut “systemic risk
across the financial system,” would also encourage traders to
pass derivatives deals through clearinghouses,  the European
Commission  said in an e-mail today.  The financial crisis showed that banks “massively
underestimated the level of counterparty credit risk associated
with over-the-counter derivatives,” the commission, the 27-
nation EU’s executive arm, said. Reviewing how lenders manage
these risks “forms an integral part of the commission’s
efforts” to “ensure efficient, safe and sound” markets.  The Group of 20 nations is seeking to curb potential risks
from OTC derivatives, which are traded directly between
counterparties or via brokers. Regulators have argued that more
OTC derivatives should be centrally cleared to limit the chances
that a bank’s collapse during a derivatives trade could cascade
through the economy.  The EU plan follows agreements at international level by
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Brussels-based
commission said.  The commission is asking lenders, regulators and investors
for their views on different levels of capital that banks should
have to hold against possible losses on trades routed through
clearinghouses, compared with transactions that aren’t centrally
cleared. The groups were given until March 8 to respond.  Compliance Action  Nasdaq Web Hack Raises Insider-Trading Concern, Consultant Says  Executives who use a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . website for
communications should ensure that no confidential information
was revealed in an apparent hacking incident, according to a
securities consultant.  Patrick Healy, chief executive officer at Chevy Chase,
Maryland-based  Issuer Advisory Group LLC , said the corporate
secretary for “every corporation that uses this system” should
be asking themselves about the possible exposure of their
shareholder base to information that may have gotten out.  Files found on the web-based Directors Desk application
prompted the exchange operator to start an investigation with
federal authorities, according to a Feb. 5 statement. The
trading systems of the Nasdaq Stock Market operate independently
from the company’s “web-facing” services and were unaffected
by the breach, according to the statement.  While the Justice Department asked Nasdaq OMX to refrain
from notifying customers about the situation until Feb. 14, the
company released a statement following a Wall Street Journal
article on the subject.  For more, click here.  Belgian Regulator Sets June 6 Indicative Date for 3G Auction  Belgium’s telecommunications regulator set a June 6
indicative date for the government’s auction of the fourth so-
called 3G wireless-telephony license in the country.  The regulator also said so-called 4G licenses will be sold
in an auction to be held mid-October at the earliest, according
to a statement published on the BIPT/IBPT’s website.  U.K. Recovers 157 Million Pounds From Barlow Clowes Collapse  The British government has recovered 156.5 million pounds
($252 million) from the Barlow Clowes Group of Companies, which
collapsed in 1988 after misappropriating investors’ money for
personal use,  Treasury  Minister Mark Hoban said.  The then Conservative government made payments ex-gratia,
or without obligation, totaling 153 million pounds to 14,250
victims of the fraud after a 1989 report by the parliamentary
ombudsman found the  Department of Trade and Industry  failed to
properly supervise the company.  The recouped money comes from assets and legal action,
Hoban said in a statement released by the Treasury in London
yesterday. The Barlow Clowes affair is now closed, he said.  Barlow Clowes collapsed after Chairman Peter Clowes and his
associates used more than 100 million pounds of investor funds
for personal spending. Clowes went to prison.  Spanish Regulator Warns Cajas on Listing Rules, Expansion Says  Spain’s markets regulator has sent a letter to the savings
banks association reminding the lenders that they must have at
least 25 percent of shares trading if they opt for a stock
listing, Expansion reported.  The regulator also advised the lenders, known as “cajas,”
that intend to sell shares in newly created banks to start the
process quickly because it can take a long time, the newspaper
said on its website, citing Julio Segura, head of the regulator,
known as CNMV.  Italian Banks’ Capital May Need ‘Strengthening,’ FSB Says  Italian banks may need to bolster their capital base, the
Financial Stability Board  said  in a progress report on the
country.  “Further strengthening the capital base of the banking
sector, without undermining the supply of credit to the economy,
may require the authorities’ attention going forward,” the FSB
said in a statement on its website yesterday.  The FSB also said that the country’s central bank “should
be legally empowered to directly and expeditiously remove bank
directors and senior officers who may have become unfit for
their duties.” The Bank of Italy should also have power to
rejects lenders’ choice of auditor.  The Bank of Italy “has already encouraged Italian banks,
particularly the largest ones, to strengthen their capital base
accordingly,” it said yesterday.  Deutsche Bank May Lose Top Court Swap Case, Judge Says    Deutsche Bank AG , Germany’s biggest bank, may lose a ruling
in the first case heard by the country’s top civil court over an
interest-rate swap the lender sold to companies and local
governments, a judge said.  The bank may have violated duties when advising  Ille Papier
Service GmbH , Federal Court of Justice Presiding Judge Ulrich
Wiechers said at a hearing today. The lender may have had the
duty to disclose an initial negative market value that covered
its fees, the judge said. The judges’ assessment is preliminary,
Wiechers said. A ruling is scheduled for later today.  Deutsche Bank has been sued by local governments,
community-owned utilities and companies that claim the lender
sold swaps without adequately disclosing risks. Cases over swap
agreements used to hedge  interest rates  have spread through
Europe with similar disputes in Italy and England.  “If the court really intends to require banks to disclose
fees built into a swap, it would open a new door,” Reiner Hall,
a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, told the court at today’s hearing.
“This would shake up the whole market because it would require
banks to disclose their profit from a deal. Such a ruling could
even cause a new financial crisis.”  Altenstadt, Germany-based  Ille Papier , which is seeking
541,074 euros ($738,000) from the bank in the case, lost rulings
in lower courts.  The high court judges in 2006 refused to hear an appeal
Deutsche Bank filed in a similar case, saying a lower court was
right to find the lender at fault for not adequately informing
its customer about the speculative nature of swaps.  Deutsche Bank won a majority of decisions on the swaps
issue in German state appeals courts while a minority said the
lender violated its duties to customers when selling the swaps
and ruled, at least in part, against the bank. The Federal Court
of Justice can use the case it hears now to give some guidance
to the lower courts.  The German city of Pforzheim filed a suit against JPMorgan
in December over 56 million euros in losses, making claims
similar to those in the top court suit.  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  Interviews/Speeches  Obama Seeks Business Support for Lower Corporate Tax  President Barack Obama spoke about his administration’s
efforts to remove barriers to business growth and job creation.  Obama, who spoke to the  U.S. Chamber of Commerce  in
Washington, urged businesses to join him in an effort to change
a “burdensome” corporate tax code, calling for “something
smarter, something simpler, something fairer.”  For the video, click here.  Levitt Says Wilpon Family May Lose Mets Over Madoff    Arthur Levitt , former U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman and a policy adviser to Goldman Sachs, said
the owners of the New York Mets “will probably lose” the team
because of their connections to  Bernard Madoff .  Levitt talked with Bloomberg’s Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene on
Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”  For the audio, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;  Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 