-- Chechen Rebel Leader Claims Responsibility for Moscow Airport Suicide Bomb
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2011-02-08T10:55:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/chechen-rebel-leader-claims-suicide-attack-on-moscow-airport.html
Chechen rebel leader Doku Umarov
claimed responsibility for the suicide bombing that killed 36
people at Moscow’s Domodedovo airport last month and vowed more
attacks in a video posted on the Internet.  “This special operation was carried out on my order,” a
man identified as Umarov said in the video. The Kavkazcenter.com
website, which posted the  video  late yesterday, presented the
speaker as Dokka Abu Usman, a name used by Umarov.  “If God is willing, more of these special operations will
be carried out in the future,” Umarov said.  The Jan. 24 blast in the arrival hall of the largest air
hub in eastern  Europe , which killed at least eight foreigners
including U.K. and German citizens, was the second major attack
on the Russian capital in less than a year.  Umarov also claimed responsibility for twin suicide
bombings in Moscow subway stations last March that killed 40
people and a November 2009 attack on the Nevsky Express train
that took 28 lives.  Ingushetia and Dagestan, the mainly Muslim North Caucasus
regions, are near Chechnya, which has fought two wars of 
independence since 1995, are hotbeds of unrest because of 
poverty and corruption.  Stepped-Up Attacks  “Hundreds of brothers” are ready to die to drive Russia
from the Caucasus, said Umarov, vowing that attacks will be
conducted regularly. “We can carry out operations at any time
where and when we want,” he said, adding that they would be
“deeper, more aggressive.”  The Chechen terrorists will probably intensify their
campaign as parliamentary and presidential elections scheduled
for the end of this year and early 2012 approach, said Vladimir
Vasiliev, head of the security committee of the Russian lower
house of parliament.  “Things are getting more active now, it’s obvious,” he
said in an interview today in Moscow. “Elections this year,
elections next year. We must tighten our security now, and bring
it to a higher level.”  Without a solution to the underlying grievances in the
North Caucasus, it will be impossible to prevent terrorist acts,
said Alexei Malashenko, an expert on the region at the Moscow
Carnegie Center.  “The rebels have a strong base in terms of ideology and
technical abilities to mount attacks,” Malashenko said by
phone. “The main cause of terrorism is the absence of a
political solution in the North Caucasus.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  