-- Chelsea, Liverpool Spending `Shocks' Officials at Spanish Champ Barcelona
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-08T15:29:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/chelsea-liverpool-spending-shocks-spanish-champion-barcelona.html
Chelsea and Liverpool’s one-day 130
million-pound ($209 million) spending on players “shocked”
Spanish champion Barcelona, with a club director labeling the
Blues’ signing of  Fernando Torres  as “overpriced.”  Raul Sanllehi said he didn’t expect such high amounts to be
spent in soccer’s mid-season transfer window, which closed Jan.
31. English Premier League clubs spent 225 million pounds in the
month, seven times the year-earlier figure.  Chelsea signed  Spain  striker Torres for 50 million pounds
and added Benfica defender David Luiz for 25 million euros ($34
million) on deadline day. Liverpool used the Torres windfall to
pay Newcastle 35 million pounds for Andy Carroll and completed
the 26 million-euro signing of Ajax’s  Luis Suarez  the same day.  “I was shocked by the amount spent,” Sanllehi told
reporters at a meeting of  Europe ’s top clubs in Geneva today.
“I did not expect such big amounts to be spent, especially in
the winter time. I felt the amount was very high.”  In 2009, Barcelona paid 46 million euros plus striker
Samuel Eto’o for Inter Milan striker Zlatan Ibrahimovic. A
season later Barca sold him to AC Milan for about half that
price. Yet, Sanllehi said former Atletico  Madrid  player Torres,
who scored 65 goals in 102 league games for Liverpool, shouldn’t
have been so expensive.  “I know Barcelona would not do that signing,” he said.
“We would not even consider it.”  Barcelona, which is seven points clear of second-placed
Real Madrid in La Liga, signed PSV Eindhoven midfielder Ibrahim
Affelay as its sole January purchase for 3 million euros.  Barcelona Finances  The club’s finances have come under scrutiny since
President Sandro Rosell in October announced it incurred a
record 79.6 million-euro loss last season and was 430 million
euros in debt. Chelsea last week announced a loss of 70.9
million pounds for the year through June 2010.  Roman Abramovich ,
the Blues’ billionaire owner, has plowed about 700 million
pounds in equity into the club since buying it in 2003.  Barcelona’s financial situation led it to agree on a
commercial shirt sponsorship deal for the first time in its 111-
year history. In December, the club signed a record 125 million-
pound, five-year, contract with the  Qatar Foundation , the
emirate’s philanthropic arm.  “Let’s not fool ourselves, we needed the money,” Sanllehi
said, adding that the group was chosen because of its charity
work. Barcelona’s only previous endorsement was with Unicef, and
the  soccer club  paid the children’s charity to put its logo on
its jerseys.  “We tried to be consistent with our idea, that’s why we
avoided big commercially orientated brands,” Sanllehi said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  