-- Chesapeake Poised to Start Generating Cash After Years of Oil, Gas Deals
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/chesapeake-to-start-generating-cash-after-years-of-deal-making.html
  Chesapeake Energy Corp ., the most
active U.S. driller, is poised to start generating cash by
cutting interest payments and slowing oil and gas field
acquisitions that reached $5 billion last year.  The company announced plans yesterday to sell its holdings
in the Fayetteville gas-shale formation in  Arkansas , as well as
minority stakes in two companies. The sales may yield more than
$5 billion in pretax funds, which will be used in part to cut
debt, the company said. That may cut costs by $400 million a
year, adding to profit, said Michael Bodino of Global Hunter
Securities in  Fort Worth ,  Texas .  In the past, no sooner would Chesapeake sell assets than it
“spent the money somewhere else,” said Bodino, one of two
analysts to raise his rating on the stock to “buy” on
yesterday’s news. “Now, they’re set up to be able to increase
their earnings without meaningful additions of debt.”  Chesapeake has had eight consecutive years of negative free  cash flow , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In the third
quarter of 2010, it burned through $3.15 billion, or $4.98 a
share, as it generated net income of $558 million, or 75 cents.  The company, based in  Oklahoma City , rose 4 percent
yesterday to $31.27 a share after announcing the plan, the day’s
best performance by an energy company in the  Standard & Poor’s
500 . The shares have risen 23 percent this year after ending
2010 little changed.  Chesapeake, which spent $5 billion to buy oil and gas
property in 2010, has vowed to slow its spending. The company
said it needed to spend money on new leases in 2010 in order to
expand its oil production. Oil rose 15 percent in 2010, while
natural gas fell 21 percent.  Reducing Debt  On Jan. 6, Chesapeake said it will cut debt 25 percent
within two years while scaling back its rate of production
growth to 25 percent through the end of 2012 from a previous
target of 40 percent.  The holdings in the Fayetteville Shale, one of the most-
productive U.S. gas reservoirs since its discovery in 2004, may
be worth as much as $4.6 billion based on other recent sales in
the formation, Bodino said. Chesapeake will use proceeds from
the sales to pay down about $3 billion of its debt, which the
company said last month was $12 billion.  By using its cash for oil and gas production instead of
buying more fields, Chesapeake can double earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization within five years
to about $10 billion, driving up the share price, Bodino said.  Growing Confidence  The cost to protect Chesapeake’s debt from default fell to
the lowest level since August 2008. Credit-default swaps on the
company’s debt declined 48.1 basis points to 252.9 basis points
yesterday, according to data provider CMA. The contracts are
down from 545.9 in May.  Credit swaps, which typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer face value
if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of
the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a
contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Chesapeake raised about $10 billion in cash from selling
acreage and producing wells over the past three years to
companies including Cnooc, BP Plc, Total SA and  Statoil ASA . The
deals also included agreements, totaling as much as $7.8
billion, for the partners to pay Chesapeake’s costs for new
wells.  Chesapeake already quit two so-called unconventional plays
entirely, selling a group of Oklahoma wells to BP and assets in  North Dakota ’s Williston Basin to Continental Resources Inc.  More Buying?  Exiting the Fayetteville is another sign that Chesapeake is
restructuring itself as a more diversified producer,  Scott Hanold , an Austin, Texas-based analyst for  RBC Capital Markets ,
said yesterday in a note to clients.  Not all analysts agree that Chesapeake is done with
acquisitions. The additional asset sales give Chesapeake the
ability to cut its debt even more than it plans, Eric Hagen of
Lazard Capital Markets, said -- a sign that the company hasn’t
finished its buying spree.  “We expect that the smaller debt reductions reflect
significant ongoing acreage acquisitions,” Hagen wrote in a
note. “It will drastically have to cut back acreage spending,
in order to convince investors it is serious.”  The Fayetteville sale will include 487,000 net acres in the
Arkansas  shale field  that produce the equivalent of 415 million
cubic feet of gas daily, Chesapeake said in a statement
yesterday.  Exxon Mobil Corp . paid $650 million cash in December
for Fayetteville operations of  Petrohawk Energy Corp .  Cnooc Buys Stake  In addition to the Arkansas holdings, Chesapeake will sell
its 26 percent stake in Frac Tech, a hydraulic-fracturing
contractor that in December filed for an initial public
offering. Chesapeake also is selling its 20 percent of Chaparral
Energy, an Oklahoma City producer that reported proved reserves
equivalent to 149.3 million barrels of oil from U.S. onshore
fields as of Dec. 31.    Cnooc Ltd .,  China ’s largest offshore energy producer, in
January agreed to pay $570 million in cash for a one-third stake
in Chesapeake’s Niobrara shale project in Colorado and  Wyoming .
It also will pay up to $697 million of Chesapeake’s drilling
costs in the basin.  Chesapeake is the  most active U.S. driller , according to
data from  Baker Hughes Inc .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  