-- Chile May Boost Dollar Buying as Copper Bolsters Peso
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2011-02-08T17:23:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/chile-may-step-up-dollar-buying-as-record-copper-bolsters-peso.html
  Chile ’s central bank probably will
step up dollar purchases as record copper prices and speculation
policy makers will raise interest rates hamper a $12 billion
effort to curb the peso’s gains, according to Larrain Vial SA
and Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  The bank is scheduled to issue a statement today on the
next phase of its currency plan after buying $50 million a day,
for a total of $1.2 billion, over the past month.  The peso gained 2.7 percent against the dollar in the two
weeks ended yesterday, the most among 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, as a copper rally improved the
outlook for the world’s top exporter of the metal. The gains in
the peso to about 480 per  U.S. dollar  narrowed its losses since
the dollar-buying program was announced Jan. 3 to 2.8 percent.  “It’s highly probable that if the  exchange rate  remains
below 480, the central bank will increase the dose to $75
million to $100 million a day,” said Leonardo Suarez, chief
economist at Santiago-based brokerage Larrain Vial.  Flavia Cattan-Naslausky, an analyst at RBS Securities Inc.
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said she also predicts the central
bank will increase the amount of dollars it buys.  “This is just fine-tuning,” she said by telephone.  The bank has paid an average of 489.29 pesos per dollar
over 24 business days since the program started on Jan. 5.  The peso closed little changed at 479.2 per U.S. dollar
today from 479.1 per dollar yesterday.  Bond Outlook  An increase in the central bank’s daily purchases would
probably push up bond yields because it will require policy
makers to bring forward planned debt sales to mop up the extra
cash, Suarez said. Borrowing costs have already soared in Chile
since the central bank’s announcement it would sell $10 billion
of new bonds and refinance a further $1 billion. That comes on
top of $6 billion of bond sales by the government this year.  “It’s flooding the market with debt,” Suarez said.
“Nothing like this has been done before.”  The yield on 10-year inflation-linked  government bonds 
could rise to 3.5 percent, Suarez said. The yield jumped to 3.2
percent today from 2.95 percent when the central bank announced
its plans. The yield on nominal 10-year bonds may reach 7
percent, he said, from 6.83 percent yesterday.  Policy makers are betting that without the bond sales, the
pesos they’re adding to the economy could lower interest rates
and contribute to inflation.  For its mopping up operation to work, the bank needs to
persuade investors to buy the bonds instead of pouring the pesos
they’re getting on the  currency market  into other assets, such
as stocks, said Felipe Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito
e Inversiones in Santiago, who worked on the central bank’s
trading desk during its last dollar-buying program in 2008.  ‘Gigantic’ Amount  “The central bank has to make their investment more
attractive,” Alarcon said. “If central bank bonds were the
only asset available there wouldn’t be an effect. As it is the
amount is gigantic.”  Alarcon said he also expects the bank to increase the size
of its daily purchases to $75 million or $100 million.  The one-year interest-rate swap rate, which reflects
traders’ views of the average future interest rate, climbed to
4.79 percent yesterday from 4.17 percent on Jan. 3. It reached a
two-year high of 4.82 percent on Jan. 27.  The bank’s dollar buying is the main cause of faster
inflation, and steeper rate forecasts are undoing the effect of
the dollar buying, Alarcon wrote in a note to clients.  Imports, Inflation  The central bank program reduced the cheapening effect of a
strong peso on Chile’s imports, which include more than 80
percent of durable  consumer goods . Chilean inflation
expectations have surged since the bank announced its plan,
generating increased speculation the bank will raise interest
rates this month to forestall price rises and reassure the
market that it remains focused on inflation.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA said the bank probably
will keep dollar buying at $50 million a day to see if the
copper rally persists.  “If there’s a correction in copper, additional measures
won’t be necessary,” said Moises Junca, chief Latin American
currency strategist at BBVA in Mexico City.  Copper prices have reached records this year as mining
companies struggle to meet orders for the metal used in pipes
and wires. Supplies of refined copper may trail demand by
500,000 metric tons to 600,000 metric tons this year, according
to JPMorgan Chase & Co. strategist  Michael Jansen . Copper
accounted for 54 percent of Chile’s exports last month, central
bank data show.  Inflation Bets  Two-year breakeven inflation, which reflects traders’
expectations of the average pace of price rises over the next 24
months, reached 4.33 percent today, the highest since October
2008, from 3.55 percent on Jan. 3. It fell to 4.28 percent
today.  Forwards contracts suggest annual inflation may accelerate
past 4 percent, the top of the central bank’s target range,
during the last 10 months of this year.  Climbing copper prices will continue to push the peso
higher unless the central bank expands its dollar-buying
program, Cattan-Naslausky said.  “If they don’t do anything, with copper at record highs on
the global recovery, we’ll continue to see the peso drift
higher,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  