-- China Raises Rates to Counter Accelerating Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-08T14:20:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/china-raises-benchmark-one-year-deposit-lending-rates-by-25-basis-points.html
  China  raised  interest rates  for the
third time since mid-October ahead of a report forecast to show
inflation accelerated to the fastest pace in 30 months.  The benchmark one-year lending rate will increase to 6.06
percent from 5.81 percent, effective tomorrow, the People’s Bank
of China said on its website today. The one-year deposit rate
will rise to 3 percent from 2.75 percent.  Oil and copper fell and emerging-market stocks extended
losses on concern Premier Wen Jiabao’s campaign to contain
consumer prices will slow the fastest-growing major economy.
China joined India,  Indonesia ,  Thailand  and South Korea in
boosting rates this year as Asian policy makers seek to avert
economic overheating in the region leading the global rebound.  “Global markets may begin to see the frequent rate hikes
as a sign that a growth slowdown in China is inevitable,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a  Hong-Kong  based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “But in the end, the move will be seen as a sign
of strength, with solid growth momentum allowing policy makers
to raise rates.”  Copper for March delivery slid 3.8 cents, or 0.8 percent,
to $4.537 a pound at 8:22 a.m. on the Comex in  New York  after
reaching a record yesterday.  Yuan Climbs  In offshore trading in Hong Kong, the yuan climbed 0.1
percent to 6.5555 per dollar. Non-deliverable forwards
strengthened 0.2 percent to 6.4275, signaling a gain of 2.6
percent in the next 12 months from the Shanghai close of 6.5938.  The central bank moved on the last day of a week-long
holiday and before a report next week that may show consumer
prices rose 5.3 percent in January, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.    Isaac Meng , a Beijing-based economist for BNP Paribas, said
he expected “accelerated tightening” that would see rates rise
by as much as another 1.5 percentage points. Before the
financial crisis, the one-year lending rate was 7.47 percent,
1.41 percentage points higher than the level announced today.  Annual inflation of 4.6 percent in December was three times
the pace of that of the U.S. At the same time, it was less than
half  Argentina ’s 10.9 percent and lagged behind the most recent
rates in the other so-called BRIC nations of  Brazil ,  Russia  and  India . Among Group of 20 nations, China was also behind
Indonesia,  Saudi Arabia  and  Turkey .  Surging Lending  A drought that’s threatening grain output and a New Year
surge in lending are adding to inflation risks after  money
supply  jumped more than 50 percent in two years. Economic growth
accelerated in the fourth quarter to a 9.8 percent annual pace.  Besides increases in rates and banks’ reserve requirements,
Wen’s campaign spans sales of state-food reserves, subsidies for
low-income earners, and crackdowns on speculation and hoarding.  In today’s move, the central bank raised long-term rates
for deposits by more than for lending. For savers, the increase
was 45 basis points for five-year terms.  “The goal is to encourage savers to keep their money in
bank deposits rather than shifting to equities or property,”
said Mark Williams, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd.  China’s 0.75 percentage point of increases in one-year
rates since the global financial crisis compare with India
raising borrowing costs seven times for a total of 1.75
percentage points. In  South Korea , where policy makers will meet
this week to decide on rates, borrowing costs climbed 0.75
percentage point so far.  ‘Policy Trap’  China is among Asian countries that risk being caught in a
“policy trap” by not raising interest rates fast enough to
curb inflationary pressures,  Stephen Roach , non-executive
chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said yesterday.  “So far, the Chinese leadership has adopted a measured
approach to inflation,” Roach said. “The mix of Chinese policy
tightening, however, needs to shift much more decisively toward
higher interest rates. With the Chinese economy still growing at
close to 10 percent per year, the government can afford to take
more short-term policy risk.”  Companies from Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. to  Starbucks Corp .
and  McDonald’s Corp . have raised prices. While wages are also
climbing, Chinese consumers are more concerned about inflation
than at any time in the past decade, according to a central bank
survey released in December.  Government Target  China’s government aims to hold inflation at 4 percent this
year, state broadcaster CCTV reported in December. Officials
also want to limit the risk of property bubbles in an economy
awash with cash.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s biggest,
climbed by a record $199 billion in the fourth quarter to $2.85
trillion, and banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion)
of new loans last year, exceeding the government’s targeted
maximum of 7.5 trillion yuan.  New lending may have surged to 1.2 trillion yuan in January,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
analysts. In December, the amount was only 481 billion yuan, a
difference that highlights a pattern of banks lending more at
the start of each year.  The government knows January’s inflation number will “look
ugly” and wants to be seen taking action in the lead-up to the
annual meeting of the National People’s Congress, the country’s
lawmaking body, in early March, said  Ma Jun , Deutsche Bank AG’s
chief China economist.  The nation’s inflation is largely being driven by food
costs. Drought hitting parts of the country may cut grain output
and undermine efforts to stabilize prices, Premier Wen said in
comments reported by the state-run Xinhua News Agency last week.  Last month, a jump in  consumer spending  ahead of the Lunar
New Year holiday and bad weather that damaged crops may have
contributed to a higher inflation reading.  --Li Yanping, Kevin Hamlin, Marco Lui, Shamim Adam. Editors:
Paul Panckhurst, Josh Fellman.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  