-- Yuan Seen Reaching 17-Year High on Rate Increase: China Credit
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-02-09T09:27:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/china-s-yuan-seen-reaching-17-year-high-on-rate-increase.html
  China ’s yuan may hit a 17-year high
in the coming week as stocks rise and bonds fall after the
central bank raised interest rates for the third time in four
months to curb inflation, if history is a guide.  The currency of the world’s fastest-growing economy closed
at 6.5938 per dollar in  Shanghai  today, unchanged from its close
on Feb. 1, the last day of trading before the weeklong Lunar New
Year holiday. It reached 6.5808 on Jan. 21, the strongest level
since China unified official and market exchange rates at the
end of 1993. The one-year interest-rate swap jumped 22 basis
points to 3.90 percent.  Emerging economies are weighing the need to curb inflation
against the risk of attracting speculative capital from near-
zero  interest rates  in the U.S. and  Europe . China’s base rate is
still below the nation’s inflation rate, giving savers an
incentive to spend their money rather than keep it in the bank.  “They fear the risk of overheating,” said Thomas Rutz,
head of emerging markets and currency in Zurich at Clariden Leu
AG, which manages $1.3 billion in developing-market assets.
“Tightening in the currency should go in line with the policy
rate tightening. I still believe in the yuan going to 6 per
dollar this year.”  The central bank’s quarter-percentage point increase in the
one-year deposit rate to 3 percent still leaves China’s
benchmark below Brazil’s 11.25 percent, India’s 6.5 percent and  Russia ’s 7.75 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China’s inflation may have climbed to as much as 6 percent in
January after snowstorms damaged crops and as demand climbed
before the holiday, according to Daiwa Capital Markets.  Yuan Forwards  China’s currency has appreciated 3.5 percent since a two-
year peg to its counterpart was relaxed in June, helping to
reduce import costs. It climbed 0.6 percent in the week after
the last interest-rate rise on Dec. 25 and 0.3 percent following
the prior increase on Oct. 19. Some U.S. lawmakers have accused
China of keeping its currency artificially weak to benefit
exporters.  “The yuan will end up being stronger than what the market
is discounting in a year’s time,” said Venkatraman Anantha- Nageswaran, the global chief investment officer in  Singapore  at
Bank  Julius Baer  & Co., which oversees some $172 billion of
assets. “The final outcome in one-year’s time will be between
6.2 and 6.4.”  China’s currency will appreciate 4.7 percent in the
remainder of this year, according to the median forecast of 25
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. India’s rupee is expected to
gain 3.6 percent, while  Brazil ’s real and Russia’s ruble are
forecast to fall 2.1 percent and 3.7 percent respectively,
separate surveys show.  Higher Yields  China’s government bonds fell this year, driving 10-year
yields to their highest level since September 2008, as banks
reined in demand for the securities after being ordered to set
aside more funds as reserves. The rate rose 12 basis points to
close at 4.03 percent on Feb. 1, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It increased eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage
points, after China last raised rates.  “As they raise interest rates more, it’s an admission that
controlling  money supply  in China is not working to curb
inflation,” said Kobsidthi Silpachai, head of capital markets
research at Kasikornbank Pcl in Bangkok. “It also shows that
they need to eventually make the yuan more flexible.”  Credit Risk  Five-year credit-default swaps on China’s bonds rose one
basis point yesterday to 74, according to CMA prices in  New York .
Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for protecting debt
against default and traders use them to speculate on  credit
quality . An increase suggests deteriorating perceptions of
creditworthiness and a drop shows improvement.  China’s stocks declined today, dragging the  CSI 300 Index 
1.2 percent lower to 3,040.95. In the week following October’s
interest-rate increase, the gauge climbed 2.7 percent. The index
retreated 1.1 percent in the week after the Dec. 25 revision.  The CSI 300 is still 15 percent below where it was at the
beginning of last year, before China began tightening monetary
policy. In addition to raising rates, the PBOC has raised the
reserve-ratio requirement for major banks seven times since the
beginning of 2010 and introduced stricter policies for lending
for second- and third-home purchases.  Priced In  The CSI 300 Index has fallen 14 percent since reaching a
10-month high on Nov. 8, dragging the average valuation of its
companies down to 14 times estimated profit. That compares with
about 19.5 times at the November high.  “This was pretty much in the price,” said Anantha-
Nageswaran at Julius Baer. “China shares are not expensive at
this stage.”  China’s policy makers also raised the one-year lending rate
to 6.06 percent from 5.81 percent, effective today. The central
bank moved on the last day of a weeklong holiday and before a
report next week that may show consumer prices rose 5.3 percent
in January, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists. That would be the highest inflation rate
since July 2008.  A drought that’s threatening grain production and a New
Year surge in lending are adding to inflation risks after money
supply jumped more than 50 percent in two years. Consumer prices
rose 4.6 percent in December and 5.1 percent in November, the
most in 28 months, while the economy expanded 9.8 percent in the
fourth quarter.  Copper, Oil  Commodities fell on concern demand will decline in China,
the world’s biggest buyer of energy, industrial metals and
soybeans. Copper for three-month delivery on the London Metal
Exchange fell as much as 0.7 percent to $9,990 a metric ton.
Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also declined.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves, the world’s biggest,
climbed by a record $199 billion in the fourth quarter to $2.85
trillion, and banks extended 7.95 trillion yuan ($1.2 trillion)
of new loans last year, exceeding the government’s targeted
maximum of 7.5 trillion yuan.  China’s 0.75 percentage point of rate increases since the
global financial crisis compares with  India  raising borrowing
costs seven times for a total of 1.75 percentage points. China
is among Asian countries that risk being caught in a “policy
trap” by not raising interest rates fast enough to curb
inflationary pressures,  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asia Ltd., said in a note yesterday.  “The goal is to encourage savers to keep their money in  bank deposits  rather than shifting to equities or property,”
said  Mark Williams , a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd.  --David Yong, V. Ramakrishnan, Fion Li, Li Yanping,  Kevin Hamlin , Marco Lui, Yumi Teso. Editors: Sandy Hendry, James Regan  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at   shendry@bloomberg.net  