-- Chrysler Introduces `Man Van' as Mommy-Mobiles Lose Market Share to SUVs
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/chrysler-releases-man-van-as-mommy-mobiles-lose-sales-to-suvs.html
Chrysler Group LLC wants to attract
more men to its minivans as women eschew the segment’s unsexy
image in favor of sport-utility vehicles.  Chrysler’s Dodge Grand Caravan R/T, which the company
refers to internally as the “Man Van” because of styling and
features geared to appeal to men, will be on display tomorrow at
the Chicago Auto Show. The vehicle will arrive in showrooms in
the second quarter. Chrysler hasn’t announced its price.  “It’s an experiment,” Ralph Gilles,  Auburn Hills ,
Michigan-based Chrysler’s head designer, said in an interview.
“Is it possible to make the minivan appeal to a guy who needs
the minivan but who used to have the sports car?”  Chrysler, the U.S. automaker operated by  Fiat SpA , is
refreshing its entire minivan line with upgraded interiors and a
new engine. The man van is slated to have a black interior with
red accent stitching, a performance-tuned suspension and a sound
system with nine speakers and a 506-watt amplifier.  Honda Motor Co. and  Toyota Motor Corp . both released
redesigned versions of their minivans last year and are working
to broaden their appeal as U.S. sales in the segment slid to
460,154 last year from 1.37 million in 2000, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  “They’re trying because the minivan market is basically a
flat market,” said Art Spinella, who studies new vehicle buyers
as president of CNW Marketing Research in Bandon,  Oregon . “It’s
pretty much reached its saturation point.”  Judas Priest  A recent commercial for Honda’s Odyssey shows a man leaving
a grocery store at night to find his minivan encircled in flames
and temporarily transforming into a black panther as Judas
Priest’s “The Hellion” plays. Inside the van, giant speakers
blare and television screens show a rock concert and a fire-
breathing monster.  “I’m pretty sure we’re the first to use Judas Priest to
promote a minivan,” said Tom Peyton, Honda’s U.S. senior manager
for national advertising.  With the 2011 Odyssey, the Tokyo-based company is
addressing customers’ qualms with minivans by giving the
exterior more contemporary styling and providing a sportier ride
and handling, he said.  The companies are trying to shed minivans’ “mommy-mobile”
image and broaden its appeal as customers are attracted to car-
based sport-utility vehicles often referred to as crossovers,
said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst with Lexington, Massachusetts-
based IHS Automotive.  ‘Vehicle for Women’  The minivan still is seen as a “vehicle for women and as
soon as you don’t need it anymore you get rid of it,” Lindland
said. “At least if you take the baby seats out of a crossover,
it’s just becomes a regular crossover. It has more wardrobes
than a minivan.”  Sales of SUVs such as General Motor Co.’s Chevrolet
Traverse,  Ford Motor Co .’s Explorer and Toyota’s Highlander
climbed 19 percent to about 3.51 million, according to Autodata.
Minivan sales rose 11 percent last year, according to the  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based researcher.  Chrysler’s Town & Country was the volume leader last year,
with deliveries rising 33 percent to 112,275, topping the Honda
Odyssey’s 8 percent gain to 108,182. The Dodge version of the
minivan rose 14 percent to 103,323, according to Autodata.  Honda’s Odyssey in 2008 dethroned Chrysler’s Dodge as the
top-selling minivan brand, defeating the U.S. automaker that
invented the segment with the Caravan and the Plymouth Voyager.  Toyota Sienna  Shawn Beauchamp, a contracting officer with the U.S. Air
Force, recently bought a new Toyota Sienna minivan after looking
at SUVs. The Sienna’s functionality and gas mileage won out for
the family with three children. He even likes the way it looks.  “It’s lowered, it’s got rims,” said Beauchamp, 40, who
lives in  Fort Walton Beach ,  Florida . “It is very attractive to
a man. It’s a sporty-looking minivan.”  Still, his wife will be driving the van because he doesn’t
want to give up his Ram truck, he said.  “I need space so I can throw topsoil or whatever in the
back of my pickup,” he said.  Dodge, known for aggressive, male-oriented marketing, may
be the perfect brand to break through to men, Gilles said. The
minivan has a utilitarian nature that appeals to men and
interior cargo space similar to that of a pickup, making it
useful for camping and hunting trips, said Chrysler executives,
including Todd Breneiser, a lead product planner.  Before Gilles, 41, took charge of Chrysler’s design and its
Dodge brand, the designer spent his free time souping up his
minivan and racing it on weekends.  Klaus Busse, Chrysler’s head of interior design, took
inspiration from that and added larger wheels and a racing
stripe to his minivan in 2008. It changed the driving experience
for him and motivated him to make the minivan cool, he said.  “It was amazing how many thumbs up I got,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Higgins in Chicago at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  