-- Citigroup Settles Fraud Cases Tied to Texas Mortgage Assigner
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2011-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/citigroup-settles-as-bankrupt-homeowners-fault-use-of-mortgage-assignments.html
  Citigroup Inc ., the third-largest  U.S. bank , settled or lost at least five claims in 2010 brought
by borrowers who accused the bank of filing fraudulent mortgage
documents provided by a Texas firm.  In the most recent settlement in December, a bankrupt
homeowner in Wappingers Falls, New York, challenged Citigroup’s
use of a mortgage “assignment,” which shows the transfer of
ownership of a mortgage. It was signed by an employee at  Orion
Financial Group Inc.,  a Southlake, Texas, firm that provides
document services to lenders.  The document was “of fraudulent nature and questionable
origin,” the borrower’s attorney, Linda Tirelli, wrote in an
August objection to the bank’s claim at U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  New York . Citigroup created and filed the assignment after
proceedings began because it otherwise couldn’t prove its right
to collect the debt, she wrote in an e-mail. The bank denied the
allegations and didn’t admit liability in the settlement.    Attorneys general  in 50 states are investigating the
industry’s use of mortgage assignments as part of a wider probe
into faulty foreclosure methods, according to Geoff Greenwood, a
spokesman for Iowa attorney general Tom Miller. Last month, a
Massachusetts court ruled that two foreclosures by Wells Fargo &
Co. and U.S. Bancorp were invalid because assignments presented
in those cases failed to prove the chain of ownership of the
mortgage, sending financial stocks down.  Connect the Dots  Bankruptcy judges are “appropriately skeptical” when
mortgage servicers claim to have assignments, said Keith Lundin,
a  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  judge in Nashville,  Tennessee , in an
interview.  “They’ve got to show me more than their swearing that they
have the right,” he said. “They’re going to have to connect up
the dots back to the note and the security agreement, which
would be the mortgage.”  Harold Lewis, an executive with the CitiMortgage
subsidiary, told Congress in November that the bank reorganized
foreclosure operations last February, helping it avoid the
faulty affidavit-signing practices that forced peers such as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. to temporarily halt home seizures last
year.  Citigroup paid almost $82,000 in opponents’ legal costs
when settling challenges to four bankruptcy claims that used
Orion letters in 2010, according to agreements filed with
federal bankruptcy courts in New York and  Arkansas . The bank
reduced interest rates on the remaining debt by an average of 49
percent, while cutting the outstanding mortgage balance in three
cases by a combined $55,000, the filings show.  Raising Questions  “It doesn’t strike me as something that lenders do every
day of the week,” said Melissa Jacoby, a bankruptcy law
professor at the  University of North Carolina  in  Chapel Hill ,
referring to the size of the concessions. “It does raise some
questions about the practices.”  A spokesman for Citigroup,  Mark Rodgers , said it doesn’t
comment on individual cases. The company continues to use Orion
for assignment letters, he said. While borrowers have disputed
the bank’s use of assignments, they haven’t accused Orion of
wrongdoing.  “We don’t create fraudulent documents,” said  Orion  Chief
Executive Officer Mike Wileman. His firm’s documents show which
company may hold the note and can be based on information from
the bank, he said. “Sometimes the evidence is circumstantial,”
he wrote in an e-mail.  Court Records  Rodgers declined to say how often the bank relies on Orion
or other outside document providers for assignments. Records
aren’t electronically searchable in most of the more than 3,000
counties across the U.S. In  Texas ’s  Dallas  County, where
documents are available online, Orion prepared at least 14
assignments transferring mortgages to Citigroup since the start
of 2009, a search of records there shows.  In the Wappingers Falls case, Citigroup said it was owed
about $390,000 from a mortgage on a property in Chapter 13
bankruptcy. The bank filed an assignment prepared by Orion to
back the claim. This document claimed another lender had
assigned the loan to CitiMortgage on June 24, more than three
weeks after the bankruptcy began.  In settling the borrower’s objections, the bank didn’t
admit wrongdoing. It paid Tirelli’s $35,000 legal fees, reduced
the mortgage principal by $29,000 and chopped the interest rate
almost in half, to 3 percent.  “We reach settlements in cases for a variety of reasons,
usually so both parties can avoid the expense of ongoing
litigation,” Rodgers, the bank spokesman, said in an e-mail.    Massachusetts  Ruling  In Massachusetts, the state  Supreme Court  upheld a voiding
of two 2007 foreclosures carried out by San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo and Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp because the
companies hadn’t demonstrated that they held the mortgages at
the time of the seizures. The banks had backed claims with so-
called blank assignments completed after foreclosure sales.  A lender such as Citigroup may settle to avoid scrutiny of
its foreclosure practices during litigation, said April Charney,
a senior attorney with Jacksonville Area Legal Aid in
Jacksonville,  Florida , who instructs lawyers on representing
consumers in foreclosure and bankruptcy cases.  “They’re afraid of going through the process,” she said.
A risk-based analysis may focus on the question, “Do I risk
going in front of the judge and getting an order that is going
to beam around the whole world?” she said.  Orion is based in Southlake, Texas, a city about 30 miles
northwest of Dallas. It provides “mortgage assignment, lien
release and document retrieval services” to the mortgage
industry, according to its website. Citigroup also uses Orion
for assignments in foreclosures, Rodgers said.  Initial Loss  Citigroup is still facing claims tied to an Orion-prepared
assignment in a case at U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Aberdeen,  Mississippi . In that case, the judge disallowed the bank’s
initial claim to a property in  Olive Branch , a city about 20
miles south of  Memphis , Tennessee. The borrower later asked the
court to force the bank to prove whether it has rights to the
loan. Citigroup filed a response last month, fighting the
borrowers’ demands.  “We’re going to have to go into litigation to determine
who if anyone is owed the money and who if anyone still has a
security interest,” said William Fava, the borrower’s attorney.  Citigroup has also filed Orion assignments in bankruptcy
cases in states including Maryland and  Georgia .  “Do they really have the right to enforce anything in this
bankruptcy?” said Ryan Starks, an attorney for borrowers in
Georgia, in an interview. “Or are they just clearing up the
paperwork?”  Mortgage Business  Citigroup serviced $602 billion of mortgages in the fourth
quarter of 2010 and is the fourth-largest mortgage servicer in
the country, according to  Inside Mortgage Finance , a trade
publication.  Lewis at CitiMortgage testified to Congress in November
about the bank’s overhaul of foreclosure practices. The company
was still reviewing 10,000 affidavits that were executed before
the overhaul, and about 4,000 affidavits may not have been
signed before a notary and may be resubmitted, he said.  Citigroup doesn’t anticipate refiling any assignments, and
hasn’t had to refile any prepared by Orion, said Rodgers, the
spokesman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  