-- Clinton Feted, Elton, Stevie, Dionne, Gladys Reprise ’Friends’
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/clinton-is-feted-elton-stevie-dionne-gladys-reprise-friends-for-aids.html
Thanks to Elton John, Gladys Knight,  Stevie Wonder  and Dionne Warwick, the  Foundation for AIDS
Research  enjoyed an auspicious start in 1985.  The quartet sang “ That’s What Friends Are For ” and
pledged their royalties to the nonprofit, as did Arista Records,
which released the single. Since then, the tune has generated $3
million for Amfar.  The organization will mark its 25th anniversary at a gala
tomorrow night at Cipriani  Wall Street  in  Manhattan . The four
singers will take the stage to sing “Friends” for 750 guests,
who’ll dine on chilled lobster and filet of beef.  Organizers hope to raise more than the $1 million usually
brought in by the annual gala, which kicks off the 2011
 Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week  in New York. Former President  Bill Clinton ,  Elizabeth Taylor  and fashion designer  Diane von
Furstenberg  will be honored  with the organization’s annual
Awards of Courage for their leadership in the fight against
AIDS.  “President Clinton’s foundation has been instrumental in
lowering the price of AIDS medication,”  Kevin Robert Frost ,
Amfar’s chief executive officer, said by phone. He is also a
member of the U.S. Presidential Advisory Committee on HIV/AIDS.  The nonprofit’s supporters have included many from the
fashion industry, which lost some of its stalwarts -- such as
Roy  Halston  Frowick,  Perry Ellis  and  Patrick Kelly  -- to AIDS
and HIV virus-related illnesses. Kenneth Cole is currently
chairman of the Amfar board.  Since its founding, Amfar has given more than $325 million
to 2,000 research teams worldwide. Its current budget is $26
million.  “Where Amfar has stood out is in its willingness to fund
research that’s on the cutting edge,” said Frost.  Success Story  One of Amfar’s success stories was funding the research
work of Dr.  Ruth M. Ruprecht , a Harvard Medical School
professor, in 1994. Her experiments showed that the use of an
antibody found in monkeys -- called azidothymidine and known as
AZT -- could reduce the risk of mother-to-infant transmission of
HIV.  (The Amfar  New York  Gala is tomorrow night at Cipriani Wall
Street, 55 Wall St. at 6:30 p.m.  Tickets  start at $1,000.
Information: +1-212-806-1615 or  http://www.amfar.org .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in New York at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 