-- Coburn's `Dr. No' Image Given Chance for Change in U.S. Debt-Relief Debate
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/coburn-s-dr-no-image-given-chance-for-change-in-u-s-debt-relief-debate.html
Visitors to Senator  Tom Coburn ’s
office can’t miss a giant, scrolling “U.S. debt clock”
chronicling the government’s fiscal imbalance that spurred him
to single-handedly block hundreds of bills -- and earned him the
nickname “Dr. No” from colleagues.  Along a nearby wall is a smaller display: mementos from the
2006 White House signing of legislation he and then-Democratic
Senator  Barack Obama  sponsored, creating a database of federal-
fund recipients.  Now, the Oklahoma Republican is looking to add to that
modest bipartisan accomplishment with something loftier. Coburn,
a physician-turned-politician, wants a central role in the
debate over how to reduce the federal debt.  He reached out to Democrats last year when, as part of
President Barack Obama’s debt commission, he said “yes” to a
$4 trillion budget-reduction plan that included tax increases
and defense spending cuts typically rejected by his party.  Coburn, 62, also is part of a bipartisan group of senators
in talks about a debt-reduction plan; other participants include  Richard Durbin  of  Illinois , the No. 2 Democratic Senate leader,
and Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North Dakota
Democrat.  “In recent months, I think he recognizes the opportunity
he has to have far more influence in being part of a solution
than in stopping things,” said former Senator  Byron Dorgan , a
North Dakota Democrat who didn’t seek re-election last year.  Affordable Government  Coburn, who in 2010 obstructed 120 of his colleagues’
measures, said he’ll continue to “say ‘no’ to growing the
government until we can afford the government we’ve got.”  Still, he said in an interview, “we have to have the
discussion in this country of how do we get out of this deep
hole we’re in. The longer we wait to have the discussion, the
harder it is to get out of it.”  His adherence to conservative positions gives him the
potential to expand the ranks of Republicans willing to
compromise on fiscal issues, said John Fortier, a congressional
scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington .  “Coburn is somewhat of a bridge to some of the
conservative populists” who won Senate seats in November’s
elections, Fortier said. “At this point, he’s looking to bring
people into the fold.”  ‘Not Radical’  That effort includes discussions with many of the dozen
freshman Senate Republicans, who include Tea Party-backed
lawmakers sharing his views on spending. Referring to the
Senate’s total of 47 Republicans, Coburn said, “I’ve got 41
fiscal conservatives I can probably count on to support common-
sense -- not radical -- adjustments to our budget that the
American people will agree with.”  A bespectacled Baby Boomer who says he missed the 1960s’
counterculture because he was too busy working for his father’s
Muskogee, Oklahoma-based optical business, Coburn didn’t plan on
a political life. After expanding the company’s lens division,
he sold it to  Revlon Inc . for $40 million in 1975 and attended
medical school. He decided to run for office after his
Democratic congressman called for an expanded government role in
health care.  Elected to the House in 1994, Coburn became best known for
his battles against abortion rights. Abiding by a term-limit
pledge, the father of three returned to his obstetrical practice
in 2001. He re-entered politics in 2004, winning an open Senate
seat with 53 percent of the vote. He won his second term last
year with 71 percent.  Obama entered the Senate the same year as Coburn, and the
two forged a friendship that helped pass the database bill. They
still talk with each other once or twice a month, said John Hart, the senator’s spokesman.  Museum Deal  Coburn earned his “Dr. No” moniker by blocking bills when
other senators didn’t negotiate with him on ways to pay for
them. Measures he’s either killed or delayed include allowing
the Smithsonian to sell land to the National Women’s History
Museum -- he said the private museum might later seek federal
subsidies -- and creation of a Justice Department job to probe
unsolved killings from the civil rights era.  Coburn doesn’t sit on the committees that oversee tax and
spending policy. Still, he has combed through the federal
budget, identifying $350 billion in possible savings through
selling off unused government property, cutting payments to
government contractors and ending duplicative programs.  A test of whether Coburn can expand his influence beyond
the power of a single senator to stymie legislation will come
when the administration formally requests a boost in the
nation’s $14.3-trillion debt limit.  Republican leaders say they want spending concessions in
exchange for supporting a long-term debt-ceiling increase and
preventing a default of government financial obligations.  Entitlement Targets  Coburn said he wants cuts in projected spending totaling
$500 billion each of the next two years. His targets include the
Social Security and Medicare entitlement programs.  The unsuccessful debt-commission plan Coburn backed in
December included  proposals  to raise taxes by $1 trillion,
primarily by scaling back or eliminating hundreds of tax breaks.
His stance drew the ire of Grover Norquist, president of
Americans for  Tax Reform , a Washington-based anti-tax group,
while gaining praise from those focused on deficit reduction.  “It was a Nixon-goes-to-China thing that he would sign
onto a deal that would have a mix of spending cuts and revenue
increases,” said Robert Bixby, executive director of the
Concord Coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at   or
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva@bloomberg.net  