-- Colgate Is Possible $55 Billion Unilever Target, UniCredit Says
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-02-08T12:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/colgate-is-possible-55-billion-unilever-target-unicredit-says.html
Unilever, the world’s second-largest
consumer-goods company, should seek to acquire  Colgate-Palmolive
Co . to boost sales growth in emerging markets and expand its
personal-care unit, according to analysts at UniCredit SpA.  Colgate, the maker of Ajax cleaners, would probably cost
about $55 billion, Nicolas Sochovsky, a London-based analyst at
UniCredit, wrote in a note dated Feb. 7. That’s 50 percent more
than the current market value of $36.8 billion.  Trading at less than 9 times earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization, Colgate stock is as cheap as it
has been in a decade, Sochovsky wrote.  Acquisitions are one of the quickest ways for Unilever to
achieve its aim of doubling revenue, according to Sochovsky.
Buying Colgate “would accelerate the portfolio shift to
personal care, consolidate Unilever’s emerging market strength,
provide scale in the U.S.” and increase margins, he said.  Under the leadership of Chief Executive Officer Paul Polman, Unilever aims to increase sales by expanding further
into emerging markets to offset a difficult consumer environment
in western  Europe  and the U.S. The maker of Dove soap and Knorr
soup is shifting its focus away from food products toward
faster-growing health and personal care goods.  Polman, the first outsider to lead the London- and
Rotterdam-based company, has spent 3.9 billion euros ($5.3
billion) on five acquisitions in the last 18 months, UniCredit
said. These include Alberto Culver Co., which added haircare
brands including TRESemme and Nexxus, and Sara Lee Corp.’s
European shower-gel and European detergents business.  To partially finance an acquisition of Colgate, Unilever
could raise 10 billion euros of equity, Sochovsky wrote. That
would lead to an estimated debt-to-equity ratio of 3.7 times in
the first year of the deal, he said.  To reduce debt after a takeover, Unilever would be able to
sell assets such as Colgate’s Hill’s pet food operation and
Unilever’s oral care operation, the analyst also said.  Unilever spokesman Trevor Gorin declined to comment on the
UniCredit note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 