-- Commonwealth Bank Profit Gains, Stock at 9-Month High
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r   a n d   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 2011-02-09T05:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/commonwealth-bank-first-half-profit-rises-5-on-business-retail-lending.html
  Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest lender, said first-half profit rose 5 percent
to a record as business and retail lending increased, driving
the shares to their highest level in nine months.  Net income in the six months ended Dec. 31 climbed to
A$3.05 billion ($3.09 billion) from A$2.91 billion a year
earlier, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement today. Chief
Executive Officer Ralph Norris is “cautiously optimistic”
about the second half, when he expects a rebound in consumer and
business confidence, which has been dented by natural disasters
and higher borrowing costs.  Norris, who helped steer the bank through the financial
crisis without losing its AA credit rating, has boosted earnings
even as demand for loans cools. Along with local rivals, he also
has to pay more for funds needed to finance lending, a cost he
cited when raising borrowing costs in November by more than the
central bank, triggering a public backlash and government pledge
to boost industry competition.  The result “once again proves that the CBA franchise is
and remains superior to its peers,” said Prasad Patkar, who
helps manage about $1.8 billion including the bank’s stock at
Platypus Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “The bears on CBA
harp on about how expensive the stock trades, but this result
should silence them, at least for a while.”  Commonwealth Bank shares rose 2.1 percent to A$55.07 in
Sydney. It’s jumped 14.1 percent in the past three months,
outpacing rivals including Westpac Banking Corp. and  Australia  &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. which gained 8.8 percent and 4.9
percent respectively.  ‘Cautiously Optimistic’  “All of our businesses have performed well during a period
characterized by subdued credit growth and intense
competition,” Norris said in today’s statement. “We are
cautiously optimistic about the outlook for the Group for the
balance of the 2011 financial year.”  Commonwealth Bank’s business and private banking profit
rose 15 percent to A$506 million, while retail banking earnings
increased 12 percent to A$1.38 billion, today’s statement said.  Impairment charges for soured loans fell 48 percent to
A$722 million as of Dec. 31 from a year earlier, the bank said.
That includes a A$100 million provision for potential losses
related to flooding in Queensland and last week’s Tropical
Cyclone Yasi, which slammed into the region’s northern coast,
Chief Financial Officer David Craig said.  The lender will pay a dividend for the half of A$1.32 a
share, 10 percent more than a year earlier.  Demand for mortgages and business loans waned after the
central bank’s seven interest-rate increases from October 2009
to November 2010. Lending to businesses fell 0.3 percent in
December, the sixth straight month of declines, and mortgage
loan growth stalled at 0.5 percent, matching the weakest pace
since June, the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said Jan. 31.  Economic Recovery  The central bank forecasts economic growth will strengthen
in the second half of this year as households and businesses
rebuild after torrential rains in Queensland affected about
30,000 properties, shut coal mines, cut rail lines and damaged
crops last month.  The central bank said the inundation of Queensland is
likely to cut 0.5 percentage point from gross domestic product
in 2010-2011. The economy will then experience a “strong
recovery” in the June quarter, officials said Feb. 4.  National Australia Bank Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne yesterday said the nation’s fourth-largest lender is well
placed to absorb any potential fallout from government banking
reforms and natural disasters.  Interest Margin  “Clearly these natural disasters will disrupt near-term
activity, but could be expected to add to growth when the
recovery phase kicks in” later in the year, Clyne said
yesterday.  Norris triggered political condemnation for raising
borrowing costs in November by more than the central bank’s
quarter percentage point increase. Treasurer  Wayne Swan  has
proposed measures aimed at boosting competition between lenders.  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the bank’s lending business, rose to 2.12
percent in the first half from 2.08 percent in the six months
through June 30, the bank said today.  Funding costs are likely to keep going up “but probably
not at the same pace as they have been rising,” CFO Craig told
reporters at a briefing today. “There is probably about 12 more
months to play out” before the bank stops rolling over funding
arranged prior to the start of the global financial crisis, when
costs were lower.  Commonwealth Bank’s Tier-1 capital ratio, a key measure of
a lender’s ability to absorb potential losses, climbed 0.56
percentage point to 9.71 percent on Dec. 31 from June 30.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  