-- Commodities to Beat Emerging Market Stocks in 2011, SocGen Says
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2011-02-08T03:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/commodities-to-beat-emerging-market-stocks-in-2011-socgen-s-friesen-says.html
Commodities will beat stocks in  China ,  Brazil  and other emerging economies this year as inflationary
pressure curbs equity gains, said Societe Generale.  Growth of raw-material consumption in emerging economies
led by China will be sustained even as prices advance, said
commodity analyst Jeremy Friesen, who was a strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  New York  before joining the Paris-based bank. The
Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of China’s
stock exchanges, dropped 14 percent last year as the Dow Jones-
UBS Commodity Total Return index climbed 17 percent.  “Prices of commodities will have to go up to rationalize
the investments to produce commodities as well as consumption,”
Friesen said yesterday in a phone interview from  Hong Kong .
“Corporates are going to have to deal with how to be profitable
and yet still facing higher costs.”  Investors have pulled money from funds tracking developing-
nation stocks because of concern about stock valuations and
inflationary pressure, EPFR Global said last week. Outflows
totaled $7 billion from all emerging-market equity funds during
the week ended Feb. 2, the most in three years, it said. Energy
and commodity-related funds attracted more investment, it said.  China’s consumer prices advanced 3.3 percent last year,
breaching a government target of 3 percent. The January rate may
have quickened to 5.4 percent, according to the median estimate
of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News, from 4.6 percent in
December. Inflation in  Indonesia , Southeast Asia’s biggest
economy, was 7.02 percent last month, a 21-month high, the
Central Bureau of Statistics said.  Copper, Cotton  Copper climbed to a record $10,160 a metric ton yesterday,
boosted by expanding manufacturing in China and the U.S., the 
top consumers. Cotton advanced to an all-time high of $1.8122
per pound last week and palladium, used in autocatalysts,
increased to the highest level since 2001.  The advance in commodity prices will be sustained “if
policy makers continue to be leaning onto the stimulant side,
which I believe they will continue to be,” Friesen said,
referring to low  interest rates  and measures to boost growth.  Friesen has also worked for  RBC Capital Markets  and the
Canadian government.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  