-- Copper Prices Drop From Record as China Raises Interest Rates
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 2011-02-08T19:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/copper-declines-as-china-s-central-bank-raises-rates-tin-reaches-record.html
Copper fell from a record in New York
as higher borrowing costs in  China , the world’s biggest user,
signaled slower economic growth and metal demand.  China lifted  interest rates  for the third time since mid-
October before a report forecast to show that inflation expanded
at the fastest pace in 30 months. In January, Chinese imports
were likely “flat or significantly weaker than in December,”
Citigroup Inc. said. The metal has surged 57 percent in the past
year amid rising demand.  The rate increase “is a welcome reminder that although the
medium-term global-demand outlook remains constructive, measures
need to be taken to prevent overheating in China,” said Daniel Major, an analyst at RBS Global Banking & Markets in London.
“This has potential to cap further upside for industrial metals
in 2011.”  Copper futures for March delivery slid 0.1 cent to close at
$4.574 a pound at 1:17 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . Yesterday,
the price reached an all-time high of $4.6375 before erasing
gains.  “The Chinese rate hike will impact demand for copper,”  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker
in  Chicago .  In December, imports into China declined 2 percent from a
month earlier, customs data showed. Inventories tallied by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange rose 3.9 percent last week to the
highest since June.  China’s financial markets open tomorrow after the weeklong
Lunar New Year holiday.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery added $15, or 0.1 percent, to $10,060 a metric ton
($4.56 a pound). Earlier, the price fell as much as 1.6 percent.
Yesterday, the metal climbed to a record $10,160.  Lead declined in  London . Zinc, nickel, tin and aluminum
rose.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  