-- Demand for Australian Wheat Strong as Price Near Two-Year High
-- B y   W e n d y   P u g h
-- 2011-02-08T12:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/corn-at-30-month-high-drives-demand-for-australian-wheat-as-alternative.html
Demand for wheat from  Australia , the
fourth-biggest shipper, is strong, said exporter AWB, as buyers
from  Europe  to the Philippines battle for supplies amid prices
near their highest level in more than two years.  Importers are seeking milling wheat for bread and a lower-
grade feed variety used to fatten livestock, said Mitch Morison,
general manager commodities at Melbourne-based AWB today. Buyers
are using feed wheat as an alternative to corn, he said.  Governments from Beijing to Belgrade are raising imports,
limiting exports or releasing supply from state stockpiles to
curb food inflation. Countries probably spent at least $1
trillion on food imports last year, with the poorest paying as
much as 20 percent more than in 2009, the  United Nations  says.
Corn soared 88 percent in the past 12 months and wheat 76
percent as drought in  Russia  and floods in  Canada  ruined crops.  “High corn values are encouraging feed grain customers to
focus” on Australian wheat, Morison said.  Agrium Inc ., based in
Calgary, bought AWB last year and said in December it would sell
the commodity management business to Cargill Inc.  Prices of feed barley are strong too as supplies run low in
Europe, the AWB said. Saudi Arabia, the largest importer, is
making enquiries, “which is supporting our market because
Australia represents the only significant supply prior to the
northern hemisphere new crop,” Morison said.  Food Inflation  Rising food costs have stoked inflation in emerging
economies.  China ’s consumer prices advanced 3.3 percent last
year, breaching a government target of 3 percent. The January
rate may have accelerated to 5.4 percent, according to the
median estimate of 10 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, from 4.6
percent in December. Inflation in Indonesia, Southeast Asia’s
biggest economy, was 7.02 percent last month, a 21-month high.  Efforts by governments from Algeria to  Saudi Arabia  to
expand agricultural stockpiles will probably have a limited
impact on prices because there are sufficient supplies,
according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  “Hoarding of agriculture products will intensify but its
impact on prices will likely be limited,” the team led by
London-based  Jeffrey Currie  said in a report Jan. 31. “We
maintain our view that global wheat inventories are elevated and
sufficient to offset this year’s supply shortfall.”  Bangladesh,  India   While the UN says global food prices climbed to a record in
December, grain stockpiles have been replenished since 2007-2009,
when the U.S. State Department estimates there were more than 60
food riots worldwide. Inventories of corn, wheat, rice and
soybeans will end this year at 457.6 million tons, 21 percent
more than in 2007, USDA estimates show.  Bangladesh doubled a target for rice imports in 2011 and
India said it will keep controls on some food exports and ease
import curbs on certain commodities.  Indonesia  is increasing
rice and corn imports, the USDA’s Foreign Agricultural Service
said in a report on Jan. 6.  Corn for March delivery traded at $6.70 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade today after peaking at $6.825 yesterday,
the highest price for the most active contract since July 2008.
Wheat traded at $8.5150 a bushel, near the $8.7275 on Feb. 3,
which was the highest level since August 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wendy Pugh at 
 wpugh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 Jpoole4@bloomberg.net  