-- Oil Declines for Fourth Day After China Raises Interest Rates
-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-02-08T21:54:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/crude-oil-futures-decline-for-fourth-day-after-china-raises-interest-rates.html
Oil fell for a fourth day as  China 
raised key  interest rates  for the third time since mid-October,
sparking concern that fuel demand will be curtailed in the
world’s biggest energy-consuming country.  Futures dropped 0.6 percent as the People’s Bank of China
boosted the one-year lending rate to 6.06 percent from 5.81
percent to curb inflation. Crude also declined as political
tension in Egypt eased, and before a report tomorrow that may
show U.S. crude inventories increased for a fourth week.  “It’s all about China right now,” said  Tom Bentz , a
broker with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures in New York.
“Climbing Chinese interest rates could slow the economy.”  Oil for March delivery slipped 54 cents to settle at $86.94
a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures have risen
21 percent in the past year.  Prices pared losses from the settlement after the  American
Petroleum Institute  reported at 4:30 p.m. that U.S. crude-oil
stockpiles decreased 558,000 barrels to 346 million. It was the
first drop in five weeks. March oil fell 19 cents to $87.29 a
barrel in electronic trading at 4:31 p.m.    Brent crude  for March settlement gained 67 cents, or 0.7
percent, to $99.92 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . Brent was a record $12.98 a barrel more expensive
than Nymex crude, based on settlement prices.  China raised its rates as growth accelerated and inflation
stayed above 4 percent. Consumer prices climbed 4.6 percent in
December and the economy expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth
quarter, faster than the pace in the previous three months.  China Demand  The  International Energy Agency , the Paris-based adviser to
28 nations, forecast last month that Chinese fuel demand would
grow 4.8 percent in 2011 to 9.79 million barrels a day. That
compares with a 12 percent jump to 9.34 million barrels a day in
2010.  “I wouldn’t expect prices to fall lastingly after the
Chinese rate decision,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “Demand in China will likely
remain robust. At some point higher interest rates will bite
into demand, but not yet.”  The U.S. Energy Department cut its crude-oil price forecast
for 2011 to an average $93.26 a barrel from $93.42, according to
its monthly  Short-Term Energy Outlook , released today. Prices
have averaged $89.51 a barrel so far this year on the Nymex.  Crude also declined before an Energy Department report
tomorrow that may show U.S. crude inventories increased for a
fourth week and as political tension in  Egypt  eased.  U.S. crude supplies gained 2 million barrels from 343.2
million in the seven days ended Feb. 4, according to a Bloomberg
News survey of 15 analysts.  Egyptian Unrest  Egyptian Vice President  Omar Suleiman  said a committee
would begin work today on redrafting the constitution following
two days of negotiations with opposition leaders in which he
promised wider press freedom and said he would work to produce a
checklist of measure needed to hold free elections.  “The unrest in Egypt is subsiding, but isn’t over by a
long shot, said Paul Crovo, a Philadelphia-based oil analyst at
PNC Capital Advisors. “We’ll continue looking at Egypt to gain
clarity about the situation.”  Investors should consider selling crude because the calming
of Egypt’s crisis may trigger a “notable correction,”
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “This week will be characterized by a drift down in crude
prices on days where either no new tensions arise or where
political progress is perceived,” JPMorgan analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles, said in a report dated yesterday.  Refinery Disruptions  Crude gained as much as 0.7 percent in intraday trading
before retreating as gasoline rose amid disruptions at Valero
Energy Corp.’s refineries in Port Arthur, Texas, and Aruba, and
Exxon Mobil Corp.’s plant in  Baton Rouge , Louisiana.  “Gasoline seems to be the strong hand right now,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in  Chicago .
“Supplies are pretty ample, but around the globe the refinery
issues continue to multiply.”  Valero halted production from a fluid catalytic cracker at
the 310,000-barrel-a-day Port Arthur refinery yesterday after a
loss of steam. The Aruba refinery shut after a water tank
collapsed Feb. 4. Exxon Mobil has started work at the 503,000-
barrel-a-day Baton Rouge plant after an equipment failure caused
by a leak in a line at the facility.  Gasoline inventories probably climbed to the highest level
in almost 18 years, the survey showed. Supplies of the motor
fuel increased 2.6 million barrels from 236.2 million a week
earlier, according to the median of 16 analyst estimates. The
projected advance would leave stockpiles at the highest level
since Feb. 26, 1993.  Gasoline Futures  Gasoline for March delivery gained 4.37 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $2.4942 a gallon. Prices have jumped 32
percent in the past year.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 864,674
contracts as of 3 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 723,152
contracts yesterday, 2.1 percent above the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.55 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 