-- Oil Falls After China Raises Rates; JPMorgan Sees ‘Correction’
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-08T13:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/crude-oil-near-one-week-low-on-rising-supplies-jpmorgan-sees-correction-.html
Oil fell to the lowest level in more
than a week as  China  raised key  interest rates  for the third 
time since October, spurring bets that fuel demand may be 
curtailed in the world’s biggest energy user.  Futures declined as much as 1.8 percent after the People’s
Bank of China said the benchmark one-year lending rate will 
increase tomorrow to 6.06 percent from 5.81 percent. Futures
also dropped as political tension in Egypt eased and traders bet
a report tomorrow will show U.S. inventories increased for a 
fourth week. Oil may be headed for a ``notable correction'' as
the unrest in  Egypt  abates, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “Oil futures in  New York  are showing a knee-jerk reaction
to the Chinese interest-rate decision,” said  Carsten Fritsch ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “I wouldn’t expect
prices to fall lastingly though, as demand in China will likely
remain robust. At some point higher interest rates will bite
into demand, but not yet.”  The March contract on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell
as much as $1.60 to $85.88 a barrel, the lowest price since Jan.
28, and was at $86.17 as of 1:02 p.m. London time.  Brent crude 
for March settlement was down $1.51, or 1.5 percent, at $97.74
a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London, extending
its 2.5 percent drop of the past two days.  China said it will raise borrowing costs after growth 
accelerated and inflation stayed above 4 percent for a third
month. Consumer prices rose 4.6 percent in December and the 
economy expanded 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter, faster than
the pace in the previous three months.  Fuel Inventories  U.S. supplies gained 2.25 million barrels from 343.2
million in the seven days ended Feb. 4, a Bloomberg News
survey showed before tomorrow’s report. The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will publish its own data today.
Stockpiles at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for West
Texas Intermediate oil, are at the highest since at least 2004.  Gasoline inventories probably climbed to the highest level
in almost 21 years, the survey showed. Supplies of the motor
fuel increased 3 million barrels, or 1.3 percent, from 236.2
million a week earlier, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates. The projected advance would leave stockpiles at the
highest since March 1990.  Oil in New York surged to $92.19 on Jan. 31, the highest
settlement since Oct. 3, 2008, on concern Egyptian unrest would
disrupt shipments from the Middle East. Brent futures climbed
above $100 a barrel, reaching $102.34 on Feb. 2, the highest
since Sept. 26, 2008.  ‘Consider Taking Profits’  JPMorgan recommended investors consider selling long
positions because prices may decline this week without fresh
political tension in North Africa and the Middle East.  “This week will be characterized by a drift down in crude
prices on days where either no new tensions arise or where
political progress is perceived,” analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles said in a report dated yesterday.
“Investors should therefore consider taking profits on all or a
portion of their remaining long positions.”  New York oil’s slump has widened the discount to  London ’s
Brent futures. The spread reached $12.40 a barrel today, the
widest on record, based on closing prices. It was at $10.97 a
week ago and averaged 76 cents last year.    Hedge funds  raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight
weeks in the seven days ended Feb. 1 amid escalating violence in
Egypt. About 3.5 percent of global oil production moves through
Egypt via the Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline,
based on data from the Energy Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  