-- Daimler Said to Face Questions in Five-Year-Old EADS Insider-Trading Probe
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2011-02-08T09:50:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/daimler-said-to-face-questioning-in-eads-insider-trading-probe.html
  Daimler AG , which owns a 15 percent
stake in European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co., will be
questioned as soon as tomorrow by Paris judges leading a nearly
five-year-old probe into  insider trading  at EADS, according to a
person familiar with the case.  Judges Serge Tournaire and Xavier Blanc are looking into
Daimler’s decision to sell a 7.5 percent stake in EADS in April
2006, two months before EADS announced production delays on the
A380, the world’s biggest passenger plane. The judges will meet
with Daimler officials tomorrow, said the person, who declined
to be identified because the discussions are private.    Lagardere SCA , like Daimler a founding stakeholder in EADS,
sold a 7.5 percent stake at the same time as Daimler in 2006 and
was charged Jan. 27 in the investigation. The criminal inquiry
continued after the French financial regulator, the Autorite des
Marches Financiers, cleared current and former EADS officials,
Daimler and Lagardere in 2009 in the probe, saying there was no
privileged information.  “Daimler will cooperate,” said Florian Martens, a
spokesman for Stuttgart, Germany-based Daimler. “We’re
confident that the matter will be resolved in the same way as
the AMF investigation.”  Daimler shares rose 2.1 percent to 54.74 euros at 9:51 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading.  The A380 announcement sent EADS shares down 26 percent on
June 14, 2006. Seven current and former EADS executives have
also been charged in the criminal probe.  ‘Very Confident’  Lagardere Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere  has said
the allegations are baseless and that the Paris-based publisher
won’t make any provisions for a possible criminal sanction.  “We will be cleared, we are very confident on this,”
Lagardere said during a Jan. 31 conference call with
journalists. The judges have “doubts, but no proof.”  Airbus Chief Operating Officer John Leahy, Noel Forgeard, a
former co-CEO at EADS, and Gustav Humbert, the former Airbus
CEO, are among the current and former executives who have been
charged. Ten have been listed as “material witnesses,”
according to the Paris public prosecutor. That classification
allows them to be accompanied by lawyers during meetings with
the judges. All deny any wrongdoing, and being charged doesn’t
mean a decision has been made on sending them to trial.  EADS was formed in the merger of the French, German and
Spanish partners in Airbus, and the French and German stakes are
kept equal through a pact. Daimler owns 15 percent and controls
the votes of the 7.5 percent stake it sold in 2006 to a group of
German banks and states. The French side owns 22.5 percent -- 15
percent held by the state and another 7.5 percent owned by
Lagardere, which manages the entire French stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 