-- Danaher Says Beckman Takeover, Its Largest, Limits 2011 Mergers
-- B y   W i l l   D a l e y
-- 2011-02-08T21:44:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/danaher-says-beckman-acquisition-will-limit-mergers-for-six-to-nine-months.html
  Danaher Corp . said mergers and
acquisitions in the next six to nine months will be curtailed
after its agreement to buy  Beckman Coulter Inc . for $6.8
billion, the largest takeover in company history.  “The opportunity here, again, was so, so compelling that
it means we are on a more limited M&A program for six to nine
months as we work through the early stages here with Beckman,”
Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Culp said in a  presentation  at
the Barclays Capital Industrial Select Conference that was
broadcast over the Internet. “That was a price worth paying.”  Danaher will fold Beckman Coulter into its life sciences
division, which generated more than 17 percent of the parent
company’s $13.2 billion in sales last year. The acquisition
won’t impair competitiveness at other units, Culp said.  Taking over  Beckman Coulter , a maker of diagnostic
equipment, will help Danaher meet higher demand for medical
tests from an aging U.S. population.  Limiting acquisitions “will be a short-lived dynamic that
we will manage through,” Culp said today. “I don’t think that
we are handcuffed. There may be a period of time here where
we’ve got to be very crisp in our prioritization.”  Medical-technology businesses will make up about 47 percent
of the Washington-based company’s sales after the acquisition,
and that figure will probably drop to 40 percent over time,
Danaher has said.  Takeovers in the remainder of this year will probably be
outside life sciences and diagnostics, Culp said on a conference
call yesterday.  “As we get back to perhaps full strength in 2012, we will
again be investing broadly across the corporation,” Culp said.  Danaher’s second-largest acquisition was Tektronix Inc.,
announced in October 2007, for about $2.8 billion. The next
biggest was Sybron Dental Specialties Inc., announced in April
2006, for about $2 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Will Daley in New York at 
 wdaley2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  