-- Danisco Loses Bid to Invalidate Novozymes Patent in U.S. Court
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2011-02-08T13:49:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/danisco-loses-bid-to-invalidate-novozymes-patent-in-u-s-court.html
Danisco A/S lost a U.S. court bid to
invalidate a Novozymes A/S patent for an enzyme used in biofuel
production, allowing the case to go to trial this year.  Novozymes is suing Danisco, which is subject to a takeover
offer from DuPont Co., contending its smaller Danish rival
infringes a patent on an alpha amylase enzyme that remains
active in high temperatures. In counteraction, Danisco had asked
U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb in Madison, Wisconsin, for a
summary judgment that the patent was invalid.  “I conclude that defendants haven’t met their burden to
prove by clear and convincing evidence that the ‘723 patent is
invalid as a matter of law,” Crabb wrote in her Feb. 4
decision, adding she still has “doubts” over whether the patent
gives an adequate description of Novozymes’ product.  Novozymes, based in Bagsvaerd,  Denmark , and Copenhagen-
based Danisco are the world’s biggest makers of enzymes that
break down organic material, such as grain and corn, to form
bioethanol, which is used as an alternative to fossil fuels.  The case will now go to a full trial in October this year,
Annegrethe Jakobsen, a Novozymes spokeswoman, said by telephone
today. She declined any further comment.  “It’s not unusual that the court doesn’t grant a motion
such as this in an early phase of a trial,” Soonhee Jang,
Danisco’s chief intellectual property counsel, said in an e-
mail. “We are still confident and will go forward with the
trial. We believe we will prevail.”  Danisco’s board last month recommended a $5.8 billion bid
from Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont. The offer is pending
shareholder approval.  The case is Novozymes A/S, et al v. Danisco A/S, et al, 10-
cv-251, U.S. District Court for the Western District of  Wisconsin  (Madison).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  