-- Death Is Small Price to Pay for Egyptian Freedom: Shahira Amin
-- B y   S h a h i r a   A m i n
-- 2011-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/death-is-small-price-to-pay-for-egypt-freedom-commentary-by-shahira-amin.html
“The army is the people’s army and
Mubarak is no longer our president!”  On the 13th day of the uprising in Cairo’s Tahrir Square,
the anti-regime protesters’ chants still ring loud.  I walk briskly  toward the square , past the long queues of
people impatiently waiting to get in, and join the protesters
who have now set up makeshift camps. Today’s “newcomers” have
to pass several security checkpoints before they are finally
allowed in. Army personnel and volunteer citizens conduct body
searches and look through people’s belongings for weapons. They
also check personal IDs.  Amr Khalil, a 22-year-old student, tells me he has been
waiting for more than an hour to get in. But the long wait seems
to have only strengthened his resolve: “They want us to give up
and go home,” he says. “But we’ll just keep coming back --
until Mubarak steps down.”  The crowds inside the square appear to have thinned
out as a semblance of normal life returned to Cairo. On Sunday,
banks reopened and Cairo streets filled up with vehicles. The
city’s notorious traffic jams were a welcome sight for many
locals unaccustomed to the sight of their bustling city void of
cars as it has been in recent days.  “We’re achieving gains here,” says Amal Mahmoud, a 30-
year-old pharmacist. “They are small victories, but victories
all the same.”  Government Resignations  The regime has made some concessions since the start of the
revolution. First, President  Hosni Mubarak  reshuffled his
Cabinet, then the leadership of the ruling  National Democratic
Party  resigned. On Saturday, Safwat el Sherif, secretary-general
of the NDP and highly unpopular with most Egyptians, also
stepped down.  The use of violence in recent legislative elections had
left parliament with almost no opposition. Egypt’s most
fraudulent vote to date had succeeded in driving the outlawed
Muslim Brotherhood from parliament, but it also cost the ruling
party its credibility and legitimacy in the eyes of the people.  There are more victories at this historic protest: On
Sunday, a national dialogue started between Vice President  Omar Suleiman  and the Muslim Brotherhood, the main opposition force
in Egypt. The talks also included representatives of other
political forces in the country, including the liberal Wafd
party, the leftist Tagammu and members of a youth committee
chosen by the activists who launched the protests calling for
the ouster of Mubarak. Independent political figures and
businessmen have also been invited to join the discussion on
constitutional amendments and the way out of the crisis, which
has taken a heavy toll on the country’s economy.  Spirit of Unity  For some, the biggest gain is the spirit of unity and
solidarity that now seemingly binds all factions of Egyptian
society. The common cause of bringing down Mubarak has united
Muslims and Copts like never before.  Egypt ’s mostly Muslim
population and its minority Copts, who make up about 10 percent
to 15 percent of the nation’s inhabitants, have experienced
sectarian tensions in recent years. But today a Coptic priest
and a Muslim sheikh stand side-by-side during a mass for the
“martyrs of the revolution.” Fingers entwined in a show of
interfaith solidarity, they chant “We are one.”  I, too, am walking away today from Tahrir Square with my
own prize victory: The presence of camera crews from Egyptian
state television filming the protest. I quit my job on Egypt’s
English-language satellite channel (part of state television)
last Thursday for what I considered to be its biased coverage in
favor of the regime. Angered by my inability to tell the story
as it is because of media censorship, I walked out determined
not to be part of the regime’s propaganda machine.  Misleading Coverage  Foreign networks raced to air my public criticism of the
state media’s misleading coverage. Its presenters were telling
their audience the Muslim Brotherhood had instigated the protest
when it had been young activists from the 6th of April Movement
and the “We are all Khaled Saeed” group, named after the young
man in Alexandria who was beaten to death by police in June last
year. The focus of state media coverage was the pro-Mubarak
rallies, rather than the revolution itself.  My resignation after 22 years as senior anchor and
correspondent on state TV captured the attention of the
international media partly because it happened to coincide with
a government crackdown on foreign journalists in Egypt. Many
were attacked and their equipment destroyed in an effort
to hamper their reporting of the crisis.  Green Light  Following criticism by the West, newly appointed Premier
Ahmed Shafik appeared in an interview and urged TV authorities
to do away with the censorship. He asked them to present all
sides of the story -- apparently giving the green light for
airing the views of the anti-regime protesters.  For state television, this is a complete turnaround and I
was pleased to see a shift in the way the story has been covered
over the past 72 hours.  As I left the square, I saw a mother lean over her seven-
month-old baby. “Papa and I are here for you today. We have not
known freedom but we want to make sure you will.”  That, I told myself as I walked to my car, is precisely why
tens of thousands of Egyptians are gathered here. For them, even
death is a small price to pay.  ( Shahira Amin  is an Egyptian journalist who resigned from
state-owned Nile TV during the protests in Cairo. The opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Shahira Amin at  shahira_amin@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  