-- Deutsche Bank Sees U.S. Rents Doubling Inflation: Chart of Day
-- B y   C a r l o s   T o r r e s
-- 2011-02-08T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/deutsche-bank-sees-u-s-rents-doubling-inflation-chart-of-the-day.html
A plunge in rental vacancies will
drive up monthly housing payments in 2011, propelling U.S.
consumer costs excluding food and fuel to increase at more than
twice last year’s pace, according to economists at Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc.  The CHART OF THE DAY graphs year-over-year changes in so-
called core consumer prices from the Labor Department and the
inverted quarterly vacancy rate of rental properties from the
Census Bureau. Rents, which dropped as unoccupied properties
reached a record 11.1 percent of the rental market in the third
quarter of 2009, may be about to pick up as vacancies decrease,
the Deutsche economists said.  Core consumer prices will increase about 2 percent this
year after rising 0.8 percent last year, according to a forecast
update yesterday by  Joseph LaVorgna  in  New York . Federal Reserve
policy makers’ long-term forecasts project increases in the
range of 1.6 percent to 2 percent. Central bankers at their
meeting last month said current inflation measures “are
somewhat low.”  Rents account for about 40 percent of the core measure of
consumer prices that excludes food and fuel. The rental vacancy
rate fell 0.9 percentage point in the last three months of 2010,
the biggest quarterly decrease since 1966, to 9.4 percent.  “At minimum, if the current vacancy rate is simply
maintained, then rents are likely to rise 2.7 percent,” the
Deutsche economists wrote in a research note. “This is 0.7
percent more than what we had estimated just two weeks ago.”  It’s more likely that vacancies will continue to decrease,
according to LaVorgna, as employment grows and homeownership
declines. “We believe the vacancy rate could be much lower this
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:  Carlos Torres  in  Washington  at 
 ctorres2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  