-- Deutsche Bank May Lose Top Court Swap Case, Judge Says
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2011-02-08T14:33:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/deutsche-bank-may-lose-case-in-high-german-court-over-swaps-judge-says.html
  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Germany ’s biggest
bank, may lose a ruling in the first case heard by the country’s
top civil court over an interest-rate swap the lender sold to
companies and local governments, a judge said.  The bank may have violated its duties when advising  Ille
Papier Service GmbH  on a swap purchase, Federal Court of Justice
Presiding Judge Ulrich Wiechers said at a hearing today. The
lender may have had the duty to disclose an initial negative
market value that covered its fees or even to advise the company
not to buy the product, he said.  “When advising in financial matters, the bank must guard
the interests of its customer alone,” Wiechers said at the
hearing in Karlsruhe. The assessment is preliminary and a ruling
is scheduled for March 22.“A conflict of interest must be
disclosed. That the bank earned money from the initial market
value may be such a conflicted interest.”  Deutsche Bank has been sued by local governments,
community-owned utilities and companies that claim the lender
sold swaps without adequately disclosing risks. Cases over swap
agreements have spread through  Europe  with similar disputes in
Italy and  England .  ‘New Financial Crisis’  “If the court really intends to require banks to disclose
fees built into a swap, it would open a new door,” Reiner Hall,
a lawyer for Deutsche Bank, said at today’s hearing. “This
would shake up the whole market because it would require banks
to disclose their profit from a deal. Such a ruling could even
cause a new financial crisis.”  A ruling requiring all lenders to disclose the profit
calculated into financial products they sell could cost the
industry “billion of euros,” Hall said.  Deutsche Bank will only be able to determine what swaps may
be affected once the court issues its judgment, bank spokesman
Christan Streckert said in an e-mailed statement after today’s
hearing. There are eight cases pending at the top court and 17
in lower courts over the same derivative, he said.  “The total amount at stake is very limited,” Streckert
said.  Lower courts had ruled against Altenstadt, Germany-based
 Ille Papier , which is seeking 541,074 euros ($738,000) from the
bank in the case, prompting the company to appeal.  When advising customers, a bank must take into account a
client’s level of sophistication in relation to the complexity
of the products, said Wiechers.  Do Not Touch  Ille Papier sells toilet paper, paper towels and disposal
systems for bathrooms. While one manager had an economics
degree, there was no indication she was familiar with complex
derivatives and the company indicated it didn’t want to buy
high-risk products, Wiechers said.  “Telling the customer that, in theory, he may face
unlimited losses, as Deutsche Bank did, may not have been
enough,” Wiechers said today. “Maybe the bank should have told
its customer to not touch these derivatives.”  In its ruling later today, the court may grant Ille Papier
the amount sought or could order a new trial if it thinks some
facts must be clarified.  The German city of Pforzheim filed a suit against JPMorgan
in December over 56 million euros in losses, making claims
similar to those in the top court suit.  The case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Karlsruhe at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 