-- Diamondback Gets $534 Million of Withdrawal Requests
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2011-02-08T20:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/diamondback-gets-534-million-of-withdrawal-requests-amid-trading-probe.html
Diamondback Capital Management LLC,
among the hedge funds the FBI raided in November as part of an
insider-trading probe, said it received withdrawal requests of
about $534 million for the end of March.  The investor redemptions total about 9.4 percent of the
firm’s assets, Diamondback co-founders Rich Schimel and Lawrence Sapanski said in a Feb. 1 letter.  Blackstone Group LP , which
invests client money with Diamondback and had the most eligible
for redemption without penalty, plans to keep most or all of the
assets in the fund, said two people briefed on the matter who
asked not to be named because the information is private.  Of the assets Diamondback oversees, 64 percent was eligible
for withdrawal without penalty by the end of March, while 10
percent could be redeemed after paying a fee, according to the
letter. About 19 percent of the firm’s assets couldn’t be
withdrawn in the period. Diamondback, based Stamford,  Connecticut , said “several large” investors have stated their
intention is to remain in the fund.  Blackstone has about $35 billion invested in  hedge funds  on
behalf of clients. Spokesmen for Diamondback and New York-based
Blackstone declined to comment.  Clients have until Feb. 15 to submit withdrawal requests
for the current quarter.  November Raid  Diamondback had said the November raid by the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  was focused on one of its portfolio
managers, who was put on leave. The firm said it was told by the
government that it’s not the target of the investigation. Hedge
funds Level Global Investors LP and Loch Capital Management also
had their offices raided by U.S. officials on Nov. 22.  Separately, Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil, former
employees of SAC Capital Advisors LP, according to a person
familiar with the matter, were charged today as part of a
nationwide investigation of  insider trading  at hedge funds,
technology companies and so-called expert networking firms.  Federal prosecutors in  Manhattan  also charged Samir Barai,
the founder of Barai Capital Management LP, who surrendered to
authorities this morning, and Jason Pflaum, who worked for Barai
and pleaded guilty yesterday as part of a cooperation deal.  The U.S. brought insider-trading charges against more than
30 people since the October 2009 arrest of Raj Rajaratnam,
founder of the Galleon Group hedge fund.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  