-- Dines Parlays Decades Atop BHP China in Bet on Food, Technology
-- B y   R e b e c c a   K e e n a n
-- 2011-02-08T17:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/dines-parlays-decades-atop-bhp-china-in-bet-on-food-technology.html
Clinton Dines said he had a rude
introduction to  China  deal-making -- being held “prisoner”
while negotiating a ball-bearing export contract to  Germany .  That was in the early 1980s in central Hubei province when
he worked in the trading department of Hong Kong-based Jardine
Matheson Ltd.  “These guys couldn’t get the price out of me that they
wanted,” said Dines in an interview. “So they kept on telling
me, ‘Sorry there are no trains.’ They virtually held me prisoner
for a week.”  Australian-born Dines, 52, is now executive chairman  Asia 
for  Caledonia Investments Pty , which manages more than A$2
billion ($2 billion). He’s raising money for an Asia hedge fund
for Caledonia to tap growth in China. Besides lessons learned
from rough negotiations three decades ago, he’s tapping contacts
and experience from 21 years as the China president for  BHP
Billiton Ltd .  “He knows the Chinese domestic economy very well and the
way China works more so than most,” said  Mark Pervan , head of
commodity research at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.
in Melbourne.  Dines ran BHP’s business in China as its gross domestic
product grew more than 90-fold since the late leader  Deng
Xiaoping  initiated economic reforms more than 30 years ago. The
nation will overtake the U.S. to become the world’s largest
economy by 2020, Standard Chartered Plc says.  China Agriculture  “We are investing in equities, companies that are
leveraged to the China growth story,” said Dines. “We will
invest in markets in  Hong Kong , the U.S., Australia and  Singapore . We are looking across a lot of sectors.”  The pork industry in China, the world’s largest producer
and consumer, is one, Dines said. The fund, which aims to raise
as much as A$500 million, may consider technology companies and
gold jewelry retailing as Sydney-based Caledonia looks to tap
demand for China-based hedge funds.    Developing countries  will be the main source of increased
agricultural output, consumption and trade, according to the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and United
Nations forecasts for 2010-2019. As incomes rise, diets are
expected to include more meat and processed foods, favoring
livestock and dairy, they said.  Pig Consolidation  There’s likely to be more industry consolidation as the
economy progresses and rationalizes, said Dines, a Mandarin
speaker and international management graduate of the INSEAD
Business School in  France . “Agriculture is one. There are
thousands of millions of farmers growing pigs.”  Dines first went to China for post-graduate study in
Nanjing in 1979 after graduating from Brisbane’s Griffith
University with a degree in Asian studies, focusing on Chinese
economics.  Caledonia won’t be looking initially at resource companies,
said Dines.  “This is not a resources fund -- this is a long short
hedge fund,” he said. “We will have a conversation about how
to play the resources space if we are happy to do that. Maybe in
the future we’ll go down that path.”  At BHP, the largest global mining company, Dines helped
drive an almost four-fold rise in the Melbourne-based company’s
sales in the last decade to China, now the world’s biggest buyer
of metals.  When Dines goes “kicking tires” of potential investments
for his new fund, he doesn’t expect to repeat an experience in
southwest Sichuan when he visited a lead-zinc mine for BHP.
After driving eight hours up “hair-raising hairpin bends” the
mine owners invited his group for dinner.  Tripe Trial  “They were so delighted to receive foreign guests that
they had prepared a massive banquet for us -- the local delicacy
was tripe (stomach),” Dines told a mining club dinner in
Beijing in 2009.  “We might have had dishes made from about 10 different
kinds of tripe - sheep tripe, duck tripe, cow tripe, pig tripe,
deer tripe, goat tripe, etc. I actually found it to be delicious
but some of my BHP colleagues who were visiting China for the
first time were a little surprised.”  Assets of Asia-focused  hedge funds  grew $2.2 billion in the
first nine months of 2010 to $78.5 billion, according to
Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “I have absolutely no doubt that the midterm future for
greater China hedge fund managers is very rosy indeed,” said  Paul Smith , chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset
manager and hedge fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.
“Investor demand for these funds are high.”  Caledonia will be steering clear of companies that don’t
meet international accounting standards.  “There is a saying in China at the moment that most
companies have 4 or 5 sets of books,” he said. “You have got a
set of books for the investors, a set of books the management
actually look at, a set for the auditors, a set for the tax guy
and a set for the wife in case she wants to divorce you and
that’s what you give her lawyer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Keenan in  Melbourne  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  