-- Discovery Adds Tyson’s Birds, Oprah to Extend Rally
-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2011-02-08T21:41:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/discovery-adds-mike-tyson-s-birds-oprah-to-extend-share-rally.html
  Discovery Communications Inc ., the
cable programmer built on nature and science shows, is turning
to  Mike Tyson ’s racing pigeons,  Oprah Winfrey  and Transformers
to drive audience and revenue growth.  Animal Planet’s “Taking on Tyson,” a show about former
boxer Tyson’s fascination with pigeons, is part of a push for
viewers by Discovery’s U.S. channels. Since October, the company
has added the Oprah Winfrey Network, with specials and talk
shows by Winfrey and Rosie O’Donnell, and The Hub, a children’s
outlet co-owned by Hasbro Inc., maker of Transformers toys.  With more mainstream shows and higher Nielsen Co. ratings,
Discovery may be able to charge pay TV systems more for its
programming, reach more homes and increase advertising sales.
OWN and The Hub are seeking to enlarge their audiences beyond
the networks they replace: Discovery Health and Discovery Kids.  “This is a mature company, and the only way to grow is to
expand its audience beyond traditional science and nature
viewers,” said  Anthony DiClemente , an analyst with  Barclays
Capital , who has a “neutral” rating on the stock. “But
there’s a lot of competition out there for women and kids. We’re
still waiting to see if this is a successful strategy.”  Discovery, based in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland , gained 28
cents to $42.55 at 4:30 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading. The shares have more than tripled in the past
two years. Cable billionaire  John Malone  has a 31 percent voting
stake.  DiClemente estimates Discovery’s revenue will increase 6.4
percent in 2011 to $4 billion. He projects earnings will grow by
15 percent to $2.03 a share. The company reports fourth-quarter
results on Feb. 11.  ‘Taking on Tyson’  “Taking on Tyson” begins airing on March 6. The former
heavyweight boxing champion has had a lifelong fascination with
pigeons and joins with friends for a six-part show on bird
racing in his old neighborhoods around  New York , according to
 Discovery’s website .  The show explores “the highly competitive, bizarrely
fascinating subculture of pigeon racing,” Discovery said. “The
stakes are high in this sport, which has just as much machismo
as boxing. But this time it’s not about money; it’s about
bragging rights.”  The company’s larger efforts, OWN and the Hub, face
entrenched competitors.  The Oprah Winfrey Network, owned with Winfrey, was in more
than 80 million U.S. TV homes in its Jan. 1 debut, according to
the company. That compares with 101.5 million for the flagship
Discovery channel, according to industry trade group data.  No Fee, No Gain  In addition, most cable operators didn’t pay Discovery for
the Health channel, Chief Executive Officer David Zaslav said at
a Dec. 6 investment conference. Those that paid were charged 7
cents a month per subscriber, according to researcher SNL Kagan.  The Lifetime network, owned by  Walt Disney Co ., Hearst
Corp. and Comcast Corp., gets 29 cents and is in almost 102
million homes, according to Kagan and 2009 estimates by the
 National Cable & Telecommunications Association . Discovery
executives declined to be interviewed for this story.  Through Sept. 30, OWN had spent $107 million getting
started, part of $189 million Discovery or a third party agreed
to lend the project. Discovery took in $300 million from Hasbro
for half of The Hub and hasn’t disclosed costs.  “If we can get that sub fee, we will have a dual revenue
stream business that’s in the 80 million homes that has one of
the best friends in media,” Zaslav said at the conference,
referring to OWN. “You put that together with oprah.com and we
think we could have something that could be quite special.”  Initial Ratings  OWN has averaged 159,000 women viewers in the 25-to-54-
year-old demographic group the channel targets, a 49 percent
rise from the 107,000 Discovery Health drew a year earlier,
according to Nielsen Co. ratings from the company.  Winfrey’s Harpo Productions Inc. has an option to sell its
OWN interest back to Discovery every two and half years,
starting in 2016. The maximum payouts range from as much as $100
million to up to $400 million in 12.5 years, according to a
Discovery filing. Winfrey declined to comment.  The Hub is available in about 60 million homes, compared
with 100.6 million for  Time Warner Inc .’s rival Cartoon Network,
according to the company and cable industry estimates.  Cable systems pay Discovery 6 cents per subscriber every
month for The Hub, compared with 18 cents for Cartoon Network,
according to SNL Kagan, based in Monterey,  California .  The network, which features shows based on Hasbro toys for
almost a fourth of its schedule, attracted an average of 32,000
kids ages 2 through 11 from inception through Jan. 23, a 113
percent increase over Discovery Kids, according to Nielsen data.
Wayne Charness, a Hasbro spokesman, declined to comment.  “The new channels are like a  call option ,” said Michael Nathanson, a Nomura Securities analyst in New York who rates
Discovery “neutral” because it is “the most expensive” media
stock.  Unsolved Murders  Investigation Discovery, which began airing more crime
shows in 2008, is also showing audience gains, up 64 percent in
prime time in 2010, according to Nielsen data.  This year the network is adding a series on victims who
were stalked, another on “the most shocking and heinous”
unsolved murders and specials on subjects that include “ID
Investigates: Why Is Bin Laden Alive?” network President Henry Schleiff said in a presentation to television critics on Jan. 6.  “We’ve really embraced the notion of having provocative
characters and compelling stories on our air, from Palin to
polygamists to ‘Who the (Bleep) Did I Marry?’” Peter Liguori,
Discovery’s chief operating officer, said at the TV critics
conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  