-- Dollar Declines a Third Day as Bernanke Says High Unemployment to Persist
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2011-02-09T22:07:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/dollar-trades-near-one-week-low-before-german-exports-u-s-jobs-reports.html
The dollar fell for a third day
against the currencies of major U.S. trade partners as Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the jobless rate probably
won’t return to normal levels for “for several years.”  The euro briefly pared gains versus the dollar after a
person who spoke with Bundesbank President  Axel Weber  said he
plans to step down later this year, a decision that would rule
him out of the race to succeed  Jean-Claude Trichet  as head of
the  European Central Bank . The dollar slid as Bernanke told U.S.
lawmakers high unemployment will persist, indicating the Fed
will maintain its policy of low  interest rates  and debt buying.  “Bernanke’s comments of the status quo do not signal in
any respect any near-term exit strategy,” said Carl Forcheski,
a director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in  New York . “Any talk about keeping policy
accommodation intact for the time being is certainly going to
weigh on the dollar.”  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trade
partners including the euro and yen, fell 0.5 percent to 77.610
at 5:05 p.m. in New York.  The euro appreciated 0.8 percent to $1.3733, from $1.3625
yesterday, and gained 0.8 percent to 113.09 yen, from 112.23.
The dollar was unchanged at 82.36 yen.  The U.S. unemployment rate had the biggest two-month drop
since 1958 in December and January, data showed on Feb. 4.  ‘Several Years’  Still, Bernanke testified to the House Budget Committee
today, “With output growth likely to be moderate for a while
and with employers reportedly still reluctant to add to their
payrolls, it will be several years before the  unemployment rate 
has returned to a more normal level.”  Policy makers are waiting for further proof of a durable
pickup in the job market as they press forward with their plan
to buy $600 billion in Treasuries through June to spur economic
growth. The Fed also has kept its benchmark interest rate at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  U.S. unemployment dropped to 9 percent last month, the
lowest level since April 2009, a report showed last week. It
fell to 9.4 percent in December, from 9.8 percent in November.
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, Commerce Department data showed on Jan. 28.  “The market is getting used to the idea that even with the
improvement in the U.S. data, the Fed’s going to be very slow to
respond with tightening, and therefore the dollar is not going
to be that responsive to strong economic data,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at
Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  Weber Move  Weber would leave his job as president of the German
central bank about a year before his term expires in April 2012,
said the person who talked to him, who spoke on condition of
anonymity. Weber discussed his plans with German Chancellor
Angela Merkel today, the person said.  European Union leaders need to appoint a new ECB chief by
the time Trichet’s term expires on Oct. 31, and economists had
named Weber as a leading candidate to succeed him.  “Weber is seen as a staunch monetary hawk and he wouldn’t
flinch at tightening,” said  Andrew Wilkinson , senior market
analyst at Interactive Brokers Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut .  The ECB has kept its overnight lending rate at 1 percent
since May 2009.  Treasuries Auction  The yen briefly gained versus the dollar as Treasuries
advanced after a U.S. sale of $24 billion of 10-year notes drew
the most demand on record from a class of investors that
includes foreign central banks.  The rise pushed the yield on the 10-year Treasury down nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.65 percent. Lower
yields make dollar-denominated debt less attractive.  “The 10-year debt auction was well received in the market,
so that helped to boost the price of Treasuries,” said  Joe Manimbo , a market analyst in  Washington  at Travelex Global
Business Payments, a currency-exchange network. “That caused
the dollar to surrender some of its gains against the yen.”  The dollar has dropped 2.97 percent in the past month, the
second-worst performance in a basket of 10 developed-nation
currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes. The Canadian currency was the biggest loser, weakening
3.04 percent.    New Zealand ’s dollar fell versus most of its major peers
after Finance Minister Bill English said it was “possible” the
economy slipped into recession in the second half of last year.  New Zealand GDP  Gross domestic product in the South Pacific nation shrank
0.2 percent in the three months through Sept. 30, and a report
last week showing a decline in fourth-quarter employment added
to evidence of a second-straight quarterly contraction.  The currency, nicknamed the kiwi, fell 0.4 percent to 77.23
U.S. cents, and weakened 0.3 percent to 63.61 yen.    Australia ’s dollar slipped 0.2 percent to $1.0124. It fell
1 percent to A$1.3563 per euro.    Colombia ’s peso fell to its lowest level in a month on
increased demand for foreign currency by local companies and
U.S. dollar purchases by the central bank. It touched 1,900 per
greenback before trading at 1,889.50, down 0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  