-- 
Dollar ETF Call Trades Jump as Greenback Extends Drop

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-02-11T13:03:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/dollar-etf-call-volume-surges-for-a-second-day-as-greenback-extends-drop.html
(Corrects second paragraph of story published Feb. 8 to
say calls give the right to buy.)  Call volume for an exchange-traded
fund tracking the  U.S. dollar  jumped for a second day, reaching
the highest level in eight weeks, while the greenback slumped
against most of its major counterparts.  Almost 74,000 calls to buy the  PowerShares DB US Dollar
Index Bullish Fund  changed hands as of 4 p.m. in New York,
quadruple the four-week average and 11 times the number of puts
to sell. That eclipsed yesterday’s eight-week high of 68,146
contracts. Today’s most-traded contracts were the January $28
calls, which accounted for more than four-fifths of all call
volume. The ETF fell 0.1 percent to $22.41, a level 17 percent
below its record close in November 2008.  The dollar depreciated 0.3 percent to $1.3628 per euro as  China ’s interest-rate increases failed to quell investors’
appetite for higher-yielding assets. Federal Reserve Bank of
Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said the quickening U.S.
recovery means policy makers need to take “quite seriously”
their commitment to review a $600 billion monetary-stimulus
program.  “Quantitative easing is scheduled to be ending in June,
and after Lacker’s comments today, people may be getting ahead
of the fact that the program will end and thus rates will have
to rise in the near term,” said Kevin Nichols, vice president
for ETF strategy at Newedge Group in New York. “People expect
rates to rise.”  Quantitative Easing  Fed policy makers pledged in November to buy $600 billion
of Treasuries through June to spur growth in a second round of
so-called quantitative easing, building on the $1.7 trillion
first round of purchases of mortgage and government debt that
ended in March 2010.  Open interest for the ETF’s calls has risen 35 percent in
the past two weeks to 391,248 outstanding contracts as of
yesterday. That’s more than triple the 112,299 open interest for
puts, which is up 1.3 percent during the same period.  Calls give the right to buy a security for a certain
amount, the strike price, by a set date. Puts convey the right
to sell. Investors use options to guard against fluctuations in
the price of securities they own, speculate on share-price moves
or bet that volatility, or stock swings, will rise or fall.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  New York  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 