-- China, Largest Wheat Grower, Facing Threat of Drought
-- B y   J a m e s   P o o l e   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2011-02-08T12:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/drought-in-north-china-plain-threatens-wheat-production-fao-report-says.html
  China , the world’s largest wheat
producer, is contending with severe drought in the main region
growing winter varieties of the grain, adding to concern about  food supply  at a time of record global prices.  Rainfall has been “substantially” below normal in the
North China Plain since October, with a thinner cover of snow
that protects plants against frost, the  United Nations ’  Food and
Agriculture Organization  said in a report today. That may harm
the crop scheduled to be harvested in June, the FAO said.  Wheat traded in  Chicago , a global benchmark, surged 76
percent in the last year as drought in  Russia , flooding in  Canada  and parched fields across  Europe  ruined crops. Protests
partly linked to food prices have erupted across North Africa
and the Middle East in the last month, spurring governments to
accelerate grain purchases to contain domestic prices.  “The drought has been bad enough for long enough in China
that the crop is not likely to be what it was in 2010,” said
Alex Bos, a London-based analyst at  Macquarie Bank . “The thing
with winter kill is there’s no way you can quantify any of the
damage until the crop comes out of dormancy.”  China is also the world’s largest wheat consumer and will
account for about 17 percent of global usage in the year through
June, the London-based International Grains Council forecasts.  Wheat Production  Chinese wheat output may have dropped to 114.5 million tons
at the last harvest, compared with 115.1 million tons a year
earlier, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates. Macquarie
expects production to decline another 4 million tons this year.  “This drought in North China seems to be putting further
pressure on wheat prices,” the Rome-based FAO said. “The
situation could become critical if a spring drought follows the
winter one.”  The provinces most affected by drought are Shandong,
Jiangsu, Henan, Hebei and Shanxi, accounting for 67 percent of
national wheat production in 2009, the FAO said. China has 14
million hectares (34.6 million acres) planted with winter wheat
in those provinces, of which about 5.16 million hectares may
have been affected by the drought, the FAO said, citing
government estimates.  “Temperatures are beginning to heat up in North China,
coaxing wheat out of dormancy,” Gail Martell, an agricultural
meteorologist at Whitefish Bay, Wisconsin-based Martell Crop
Projections, wrote in a report. “Rain is needed soon.”  Additional Irrigation  The government is seeking to alleviate the situation by
providing additional irrigation and “relatively mild”
temperatures are also helping, the FAO said. Shortages of
drinking water are affecting 2.57 million people and 2.79
million livestock, the FAO said.  The Chinese drought “is a supportive factor for the rally
right now,” Bos said. “No matter how you look at the wheat
market, it’s getting more bullish.”  Global grain stocks are forecast to drop 15 percent to
342.4 million tons at the end of June, while wheat inventories
will drop 6.7 percent to 184.8 million tons, the IGC estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Poole  at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 