-- E.ON U.K. Grid Said to Draw Interest From MidAmerican, PPL, CKI
-- B y   B r e t t   F o l e y ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2011-02-08T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/e-on-s-u-k-power-grid-sale-said-to-interest-midamerican-ppl-cheung-kong.html
  E.ON AG ’s U.K. power grid is drawing
interest from MidAmerican Energy Holdings Co.,  PPL Corp . and  Cheung Kong Infrastructure Holdings Ltd . in a sale that may
fetch about $6 billion, said people with knowledge of the talks.  E.ON, Germany’s largest utility, is considering the new
approaches after earlier talks to sell the asset failed, said
the people, who declined to be identified because the
negotiations are private. CKI, controlled by  Hong Kong 
billionaire  Li Ka-shing , MidAmerican, owned by Warren Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc ., and PPL all have operations in the
U.K., according to their websites.  The sale of the U.K. electricity lines is part of E.ON’s
plan to sell 15 billion euros ($20.5 billion) of assets by the
end of 2013. The company is seeking to slash debt and raise
funds for growth outside  Europe , where it faces stagnant demand
and levies from governments trying to reduce budget deficits.  E.ON had entered exclusive talks last year to sell the
assets to a group led by the Canada Pension Plan Investment
Board, people familiar with the matter said in November.
Dusseldorf-based E.ON began talks with other parties after it
rejected a revised bid from the group, people said.  Early Stages  No deal is imminent and the talks are still in early
stages, two people said. Jonathan Smith, a spokesman for E.ON in
London, declined to comment. A call to Margot Leong, a
spokeswoman for CKI in Hong Kong, outside of regular office
hours wasn’t immediately returned.  Ann Thelen, a spokeswoman for MidAmerican, declined to
comment in an e-mail message. George Biechler, a spokesman for
PPL, declined to comment. A spokeswoman from the  Canada Pension
Plan  also declined to comment.  E.ON is working with JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Barclays Plc
on the sale of the grid, people said in November. PPL’s talks
with E.ON were reported last month by the energy news website
SparkSpread and CKI’s interest was reported by the Sunday Times
in the U.K.  A group led by CKI bought Paris-based Electricite de France
SA’s U.K. power lines last year. The Canada Pension Plan led a
rival group in bidding for EDF’s grid alongside Abu Dhabi
Investment Authority and Macquarie Group Ltd.  PPL, based in Allentown, Pennsylvania, agreed last year to
pay $6.7 billion in cash and take on $925 million in debt for
E.ON’s Louisville Gas & Electric and Kentucky Utilities units in
the U.S. PPL’s U.K. unit is Western Power Distribution Holdings
Ltd., an owner of electricity lines in Wales and Southwest
England.  MidAmerican, based in Des Moines, Iowa, owns CE Electric
U.K., which operates Northern Electric Distribution and
Yorkshire Electric Distribution and distributes power to 3.8
million customers in the U.K., according to CE Electric’s
website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brett Foley in  London  at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey St.Onge at 
 jstonge@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  