-- Hedge Fund Managers, Analyst Charged in U.S. Crackdown on Insider Trading
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2011-02-08T15:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/hedge-fund-managers-analyst-charged-in-u-s-crackdown-on-insider-trading.html
Three hedge fund portfolio managers
and a hedge fund analyst were charged in  New York  federal court
with  insider trading , U.S. prosecutors said in a statement
announcing a noon press conference today in Manhattan.  Two of the portfolio managers were also charged with
obstruction of justice, according to Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara.  The charges come amid a nationwide U.S. crackdown on
insider trading that has implicated  hedge funds , technology
companies and so-called expert networking firms.  The U.S. has brought insider-trading charges against more
than 30 people since October 2009 as part of the probe. A trial
in the case at the center of the investigation, against former
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, is scheduled to
begin Feb. 28 in New York. He denies wrongdoing.  Prosecutors didn’t identify the four new defendants.  Prosecutors previously filed insider trading charges
against eight people who worked as employees or consultants for
Primary Global Research LLC, a  Mountain View , California-based
firm that links investors with consultants at public companies.  In a related court filing last week, the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission said in a civil lawsuit that one of the
defendants in the Primary Global case, Walter Shimoon, spoke
with at least 11 hedge funds over 14 months and leaked stock
tips to some of them.  Primary Global  Shimoon was an employee at  Flextronics International Ltd .
while working as a Primary Global consultant.  Another defendant in that case is Winifred Jiau, who also
worked as a Primary Global consultant. The complaint against
Jiau alleges that she worked with a co-conspirator, who the
complaint didn’t identify. That person is Samir Barai, the
founder of Barai Capital Management, according to a person
familiar with the case.  Barai’s lawyer, Evan Barr, didn’t immediately return a
call.  Jiau is scheduled to make an appearance today in  Manhattan 
federal court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net  