-- Medtronic Wins U.S. Regulatory Approval for First MRI-Safe Pacemakers
-- B y   R o b   W a t e r s
-- 2011-02-08T21:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/medtronic-wins-u-s-regulatory-approval-for-first-mri-safe-pacemakers.html
  Medtronic Inc . won approval from U.S.
regulators for the first heart pacemaker designed to be used
safely by patients undergoing a common medical imaging exam
called an MRI.  Shipments of the product, the Revo MRI SureScan pacing
system, will begin immediately, the Minneapolis-based company
said in a statement today. The approval suggests a Nov. 2009
warning letter from U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to the
company doesn’t prevent new product approvals, boosting the
prospects of a defibrillator pending before the agency, said
Sean Lavin, an analyst with Lazard Capital Markets in New York.  MRI, or magnetic resonance imaging, scans aren’t
recommended for patients with current pacemakers, which are
implanted devices that treat irregular or stalled heartbeats.
About 1.5 million Americans have a pacemaker, and about 75
percent will develop health conditions that require an MRI,
according to Medtronic. Magnetic fields used in MRI scans may
disrupt the work of pacemakers or cause their wires to overheat.  “It’s good news on a couple fronts,” Lavin said today in
a telephone interview. “It’s positive for pacemakers for the
company, although probably a minor one” because the device is
likely to have “limited uptake.”  The “bigger deal,” Lavin said, is that today’s approval
suggests the November warning letter won’t prevent the FDA from
approving Medtronic’s Protecta defibrillator, a product with a
“much bigger market potential.”  Limited Market  The market for the pacemaker will be limited because many
patients who may otherwise be candidates for a Revo can’t get
MRIs because they have other metal devices such as replacement
hips implanted in their bodies, Lavin said.  Lavin said revenue will depend on how the device is priced.
Most pacemakers now cost about $10,000, he said.  “If they price it at about that point, docs will put it in
everybody” who’s eligible, he said. “If it’s double that,
they’ll put it in no one.”  Medtronic rose 27 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $39.81
at 4 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. The
shares declined 4.7 percent in the past 12 months.  The FDA is requiring training for cardiologists and
radiologists who treat patients with the pacemaker and will
limit its use to “certain patients, certain parts of the body
and certain scanning parameters,” the agency said in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Rob Waters  in  San Francisco  at 
 rwaters5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 