-- Theft Will Limit Spot CO2 Trades for Months, EEX Says
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n ,   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-02-08T19:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/theft-will-limit-spot-co2-trades-for-months-eex-says-update1-.html
Thefts of European Union carbon
allowances last month are hurting investor confidence and may
limit spot trading for more than three months, the European
Energy Exchange AG said.  Spot carbon trading stopped on the Leipzig, Germany-based
EEX following the EU’s suspension of 30 national emission
registries and a series of computer-hacking attacks that left
29 million euros ($40 million) worth of permits missing last
month. EEX’s spot trading hasn’t resumed, even as the BlueNext
SA exchange in Paris and registries in  Germany  and four other
countries reopened on Feb. 4.  The EEX spot market “was never closed, it just went dry,”
EEX Chief Executive Officer Hans-Bernd Menzel said today in an
interview at the E-world energy fair in Essen, Germany. “The
major problem is not a technical one, whether we are open or
not. It’s a trust problem, and that affects everybody.”    Austria , the  Czech Republic  and  Greece  managed to locate
about 2 million missing permits after the hacking attacks last
month. Still, legal questions about how to recover allowances
and unresolved reports of theft from last year are keeping
investors away from spot trading.  Italy said it has yet to recover all the 267,991 emission
allowances that were transferred without authorization on Nov.
24 within the country and to accounts in Liechtenstein and the
U.K. after hackers made a copy of a password.  Investigation in  Italy   Italy locked suspect accounts in the country’s carbon
registry on Dec. 2 and is waiting for results of an
investigation from local authorities, a spokesman at the
country’s  Environment Ministry  said today by e-mail.  EEX, continental Europe’s largest energy exchange, started
handling carbon sales for Germany’s Environment Ministry last
year and said it is preparing to take part in a tender to help
opeerate EU auctions planned for 2013 in the world’s biggest
emissions market.  BlueNext handled 10,000 tons today, compared with an
average of 134,000 tons in the 20 days before the halt started
on Jan. 19, according to exchange data, and the closing price
was 14.30 euros, up 0.2 percent.  Prompt trading on the ICE Futures Europe, the London-based
energy exchange and the biggest in  Europe , is still frozen as
officials try to weed out allegedly stolen permits. David Peniket, president and chief operating officer at ICE, said last
week the London-based exchange will give at least 36 hours
notice before it resumes the next-day contract.  Still Waiting  The Green Exchange in  London  also is waiting to resume spot
trading on emission rights.  It will be “at least three months” before spot trading
volumes on European exchanges reach levels seen before the
closure of national registries, Menzel said.  The European carbon futures market wasn’t halted by the
crisis. EU allowances for December rose 0.5 percent 14.71 euros
on ICE. They are up 3.3 percent from the start of the year.  About 1 million emission permits are still missing from the
account of the Romanian unit of Holcim Ltd., a Swiss cement
maker. Romanian prosecutors asked the U.K., Italy,  Belgium ,  Israel  and Liechtenstein to help investigate the theft, the
Bucharest-based organized crime and terrorism unit of the state
prosecutor’s office said Jan. 31.  The EU has said the recovery of any allowances transferred
illegally has not been harmonized in the 27-nation bloc and is a
matter for national law and local enforcement authorities.  Last month’s attacks on the European carbon market, valued
at 80 billion euros last year according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, followed “carousel fraud” involving value-added tax
collection and password “phishing” last year.  Bad Reputation  While national registries are now upgrading their security
systems, the incidents were “very bad for the reputation and
the credibility” of the six-year old  European cap-and-trade ,
Yvon Slingenberg, head of the emissions-trading unit at the
European Commission, told a seminar in Brussels on Jan. 25.  “The VAT fraud in terms of volumes, in terms of money, is
much more important than the stolen things, but sometimes you
make an accumulated thing in order to make people react,”
Menzel said.  The EU designed its emissions system in 2005 to be its main
tool for reducing the  greenhouse gases  and a model for a global
carbon market.  The program prices carbon by setting limits on the amount
of emissions polluters can produce. Those producing more than
their allocation of allowances must buy permits to offset their
emissions, allowing those that emit less to sell their balance
in the market, or pay a fine of 100 euros for every ton of
excess emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Ewa Krukowska in Brussels 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  