-- Egyptian Unrest Throws Deficit Goals Off Course as Yields Rise
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2011-02-09T14:12:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/egyptian-unrest-throws-deficit-goals-off-course-as-yields-rise.html
Egypt’s political crisis is throwing
into disarray a pledge by  Hosni Mubarak ’s government to cut the  budget deficit  by more than a half by 2015, threatening to raise
borrowing costs for the president’s successor.  Unprecedented protests seeking the end of Mubarak’s 30-year
rule have already pushed the yields on Egypt’s Treasury bills to
the highest level in two years. The yield on the government’s
5.75 percent dollar bond due in April 2020 reached a record of
7.21 percent on Jan. 31 before retreating to 6.53 percent today.  “Everything that has happened in the current political
crisis is going to make it more difficult to reach the target,”
said Ann Wyman, the London-based head of emerging markets
research for  Europe  at Nomura Holding Inc., in an e-mail. “Tax
revenues will likely decline, subsidies are increasing, public
sector wages are going up and interest costs are rising.”  Egypt’s transition government, led by Vice President  Omar Suleiman , has promised higher wages for government workers and  unemployment benefits  to those who lost jobs in the past two
weeks in an effort to placate protesters who threatened to
topple the regime. With elections due in September, the risk is
that such measures will increase the budget deficit from 8.1
percent of gross domestic product last year and force the next
government to consider pushing through austerity measures.  The average yield on 91-day Treasury bills rose 147 basis
points to 10.97 percent at a debt auction on Feb. 7. The average
yield on 182-day bills climbed 86 basis points to 11.5 percent,
while the yield on the 273-day bills rose 120 basis points to
11.65 percent. The three-month bills yielded between 10.7
percent and 11 percent today, according to prices from the  National Bank of Egypt .  Double Digit Deficit  The Egyptian pound strengthened from a six-year low
yesterday after the central bank intervened to slow declines in
the currency. The currency rose 1.3 percent to 5.8780 against
the  U.S. dollar  in Cairo. It was little changed at 5.8805 today.  “We still expect more weakness in the pound to come in the
coming weeks but expect the move to be more gradual given the
bank’s intervention,” said Dina Ahmad, a foreign exchange and
fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London.  Spending may push Egypt’s deficit into “double digits” in
2011 from 8.1 percent in the fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said on Feb. 1. By comparison,  Greece ’s
shortfall was 15.4 percent in 2009 and 9.6 percent last year,
the European Commission estimates. S&P cut its  credit rating  on
Egypt by one level to BB, two notches below investment grade.  Civil War  Samir Radwan, the newly appointed finance minister, said
last week that the government will not reduce subsidies for food
and fuel, reversing a pledge by his predecessor. On Feb. 5, he
said in a press conference that public spending will be a tool
to “achieve social justice.” Two days later, Radwan announced
a 15 percent increase in government wages and pensions.  Until stability returns, fiscal discipline will take a back
seat, said Michael Ganske, London-based head of emerging market
research at Commerzbank AG. He expects the deficit to widen to
about 9 percent of GDP this year.  “When you just avoided a civil war you don’t care so much
for meeting a fiscal deficit target,” Ganske said.  Greek Parallel    Egypt  in 2009 pledged to cut its deficit to 3.5 percent of
GDP by 2015, a promise that was based on the assumption of 7.7
percent economic growth, documents on the  Finance Ministry ’s
website show, without specifying a timescale. The ministry’s
projection also assumed a 13 percent decline in subsidies by
2015.  The plan assumed that world food prices would be less
volatile than in 2008. The United Nations FAO Food Price index
has jumped 37 percent since May and touched a record last month,
the same increase as in the year to July 2008.  It may take some time for the budget to see a “significant
deterioration,” Cairo-based investment bank Beltone Financial
said in a Feb. 7 report. Tax revenue, which makes up about 60
percent of total government income, rose at an annual rate of 15
percent in the first half of the fiscal year to 75.4 billion
Egyptian pounds ($13 billion), Beltone Financial said.  The yield on Egypt’s 10-year government bond is also lower
than those of Greece and Ireland, which both needed European
Union-led bailouts last year. The yield on Greece’s 10-year bond
was 11.07 percent yesterday and Ireland’s was 8.73 percent. The
North African country’s credit risk rose 10 basis points today
to 349.95, from the  London  close, according to CMA prices.  Some strategists point to Egypt’s relatively low debt load
and the fact that the currency is mostly held by domestic
investors, meaning it’s less susceptible to shifts in
international sentiment. Egypt’s external debt was 14 percent of
GDP in September, according to the Finance Ministry website.  Lost Tourism  “In the long run Egypt’s fundamentals are pretty strong,”
said Rajeev Mittal, who helps oversee more than $80 billion as
head of emerging markets fixed income at Pinebridge Investments
Europe Ltd. “You’ve got very little external debt, very little
in terms of foreign participation in the local  currency
markets .”  The current unrest, which left nearly 300 people dead
according to New York-based  Human Rights Watch , is nevertheless
taking its toll on the economy. Growth may slow to 3.7 percent
in the current fiscal year from 5.1 percent last year, says John Sfakianakis, chief economist at Banque Saudi Fransi, Credit
Agricole Group. He forecasts the deficit to widen to 12.3
percent.  The government of Prime Minister  Ahmed Nazif , whom Mubarak
fired last month, had forecast GDP to expand about 6 percent
this year.  Lost tourism has cost Egypt $1.5 billion, central bank
governor Farouk El-Okdah said in an interview with state-run
television on Feb. 5.  “Revenue growth is likely to slow down as economic growth
moderates,” said Alia Moubayed, senior economist at London-
based  Barclays Capital . “Obviously it will be more difficult to
cut the deficit in a period of economic slowdown and political
volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 Chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  