-- Egypt Central Bank ‘Intervened;’ Currency Strengthens
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   C a m i l l a   H a l l
-- 2011-02-08T15:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/egyptian-central-bank-intervenes-to-support-currency-deputy-governor-says.html
The Egyptian pound strengthened the
most since November against the dollar after the  central bank 
acted to slow declines in the currency amid protests demanding
the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak .  “We saw excessive speculative activity so we intervened to
stabilize the market,” Deputy Central Bank Governor Hisham
Ramez said in a telephone interview from Cairo today. He
declined to provide further details.  The pound rose 1.3 percent, the most since Nov. 1, to
5.8780 against the dollar at 4:44 p.m. in Cairo, following a 1.6
percent decline yesterday. Three-month non-deliverable forwards
rose 0.8 percent to 6.18 per dollar. The contracts reflect bets
the currency will weaken 4.9 percent in three months.  The pound weakened to a six-year low this week after anti-
government protests continued in the North African country,
killing about 300 people, according to the  United Nations .
Negotiations between opposition leaders and Vice President  Omar Suleiman  on constitutional changes needed to end Mubarak’s 30-
year rule made “big progress,” Egyptian billionaire  Naguib Sawiris , a participant in the talks, said yesterday. The
government raised most of the 15 billion Egyptian pounds ($2.5
billion) sought at a debt auction yesterday.  ‘Pandora’s Box’  “It’s positive, but it opens a Pandora’s Box because it
could entice the market to put pressure on the pound and for the
Central Bank of  Egypt  to keep supporting it,” said John
Sfakianakis, chief economist at Riyadh-based Banque Saudi
Fransi. “We just have to see if the intervention had a
directional effect tomorrow.”  Egypt’s credit risk is falling to the lowest level since
anti-government protests began Jan. 25 and international
borrowing costs have receded from a record high. The cost of
insuring Egyptian sovereign debt declined 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, from yesterday’s  London  close, to 344,
according to CMA prices. The yield on the 5.75 percent bond due
in April 2020 has dropped 89 basis points since reaching a
record 7.2 percent on Jan. 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Yields rose 11 basis points to 6.3 percent today.  The government carried out its first auction since Jan. 27
yesterday, selling a combined 13 billion pounds of bills. Yields
on the 91-day notes rose 147 basis points to 10.97 percent, the
highest rate in two years. The yield is down from 14 percent in
the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
September 2008.  ‘More Weakness’  The central bank action "shows a commitment from the
central bank to limit the slide in the pound,’’ Dina Ahmad,
foreign exchange and fixed-income strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in London, wrote in an e-mail today. “We still expect more
weakness in the pound to come in the coming weeks but expect the
move to be more gradual given the bank’s intervention.”  UBS AG forecast Feb. 4 that the pound could depreciate 20
to 25 percent over the next month.  Demonstrations continued today with thousands camping out
in tents even after the government vowed progress within a month
toward free elections. Opposition groups rallied around  Mohamed
ElBaradei , the former head of the United Nations nuclear agency.
The nation’s stock market remained closed after the benchmark
index slid 16 percent in the week ended Jan. 27.  In an attempt to placate the protesters, Finance Minister
Samir Radwan said Feb. 5 that the government won’t reduce
subsidies even if global prices of food and commodities rise.
Public spending will be used as a tool to “achieve social
justice,” he told a news conference in Cairo.  ‘Double Digits’  An increase in public spending may push the budget gap to
“double digits” in 2011, compared with 8.1 percent in the
fiscal year that ended in June,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week
after lowering the country’s credit ratings by one level to two
below investment grade.  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s Investors
Service also cut Egypt’s ratings.  London-listed global depositary receipts of  Orascom
Construction Industries , dropped 2.6 percent to $40.87 after
surging 4 percent yesterday. The Cairo-based company said in a
statement yesterday that it has resumed work on 90 percent of
its sites in the Arab country. Orascom Telecom Holding SAE fell
0.3 percent to $3.28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net 
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 Chall24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  