-- Egypt's `Hot Wind' Exposes U.S. Dilemma: Aaron David Miller
-- B y   A a r o n   D a v i d   M i l l e r
-- 2011-02-08T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/egypt-s-hot-wind-exposes-u-s-dilemma-aaron-david-miller.html
“There’s a hot wind blowing from the
east,” Scottish author John Buchan wrote in his Middle East
novel, “Greenmantle,” “and the dry grasses wait the spark.”  Those words, written almost a century ago, could apply to
the U.S. position in the region today. Turbulent winds are
blowing through the Arab world and American-backed houses of
cards may fall.  It’s first, to be sure, a Middle East problem. In  Tunisia ,
Egypt, Jordan, Yemen, and perhaps elsewhere, an opposition both
young and old, secular, nationalist and Islamist, wants better
governance, accountability, economic justice, and human rights.
But the U.S. and its interests will not be untouched by the
storm.  For 40 years, with the best of motives, averting
radicalism, making peace, fighting terror, bucking up moderate
governments, the U.S. has cut deals with authoritarian regimes
that abused human rights and denied their public a free press
and open politics. Some like the Shah of  Iran  and  Iraq ’s  Saddam Hussein  (whom we supported in the 1980s) were worse than others.  Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  isn’t Saddam or  Slobodan Milosevic ; he’s not a mass murderer, sociopath, or criminal. He
was a close friend and ally to the U.S. ever since President
Anwar Sadat’s assassination in 1981. The U.S. built its Mideast
policy around him. The 20 years I spent traveling with half a
dozen U.S. secretaries of State, Cairo was always our first stop
to coordinate with Mubarak.  The problem was that our interests and his method of
governance were at odds.  Documented Torture  All those years, we went through the motions when it came
to Egypt’s respect for human rights and democracy. Yes, we
published an annual human rights report that documented torture
and arbitrary arrest; and Congress from time to time would
complain. During  George W. Bush ’s administration, we even took
the Freedom Agenda more seriously for a while; and U.S.-Egyptian
relations went through a bad patch.  But on balance, the bargain remained the same: you help us
with our national security agenda, and we’ll give you a pass at
home.  No more. The democracy movement is underestimating just how
powerful the armed forces remain in Egypt’s governance. Egypt is
likely to remain a praetorian state with the military still
dominant in its political and security life. But there will be
change, most likely for the better. More openness, respect for
human rights, less arbitrary practices by security services, and
a more robust parliament and a freer opposition.  Complicated Change  For  Egypt , its people and politics, this will be good; for
the U.S. it will be good too; but it will also be complicated
and not quite so salutary for our interests.  Our challenge will flow not from the dire predictions that
Islamic radicals will take over the country or that Egypt will
close the canal, throw out U.S. companies, or abrogate the peace
treaty. No, it will come from the very values of free
expression, accountable and participatory government that
Americans so cherish.  As the Egyptian political system opens up, government
policies will need to reflect the sentiments of the public and,
particularly, the elites, whether they are secular, Islamist, or
nationalist. And these will invariably reflect attitudes much
more critical of U.S. policies and Israel.  Muslim Brotherhood 
spokesmen have already called for submitting the Egyptian-
Israeli peace treaty to a referendum.  Policy Analysis  Looking across the range of U.S. interests, the shared
political space between the two countries will narrow.  Iran: Mubarak detested the Iranians. He sat next to Sadat
when Khalid Islambouli sprayed them both with machine-gun fire.
The mullahs named a street in Teheran in the assassin’s honor.
The new Egyptian government won’t be as allergic to closer ties
with Iran and may be less willing to back our containment
policies.  Counter-terrorism: the Muslim Brotherhood will prevent al
Qaeda from establishing itself in Egypt. But that doesn’t mean
the new Egypt will be so supportive of our war on terror or
participate in our efforts to combat radical Islam politically.  Gaza: Mubarak didn’t like Israeli practices there or much
care for Hamas. The next Egyptian government, even though the
military will want a big say, will be more supportive of Hamas,
less caring about weapons smuggled into Gaza and more critical
of Israeli policies.  Peace Treaty  Peacemaking: Whatever or whoever follows Mubarak won’t
repudiate the treaty with  Israel . The military doesn’t want a
war; and U.S. aid which topped $1.5 billion last year is too
important.  But, unlike Mubarak, who met with Israeli prime ministers
regularly, worked to defuse crises, supported the more moderate  Palestinian Authority , and worked closely with U.S. presidents,
the new Egyptian government will be less forthcoming and willing
to criticize U.S.-Israeli relations. That in turn will have a
negative effect on how flexible the Israelis are prepared to be
in future Arab-Israeli peacemaking.  “History, like nature,” U.S. novelist Robert Penn Warren
wrote, “knows no jumps. Except backward, maybe.”  Political change in Egypt will be good for Egypt over
history’s long arc. And maybe for the U.S., too. But for now,
it’s going to be a roller-coaster ride.    Aaron David Miller , author of the forthcoming book, “Can
America Have Another Great President?,” is a public policy
scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars,
and has served as a Middle East negotiator in Republican and
Democratic administrations. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Aaron David Miller at  aaron.miller@wilsoncenter.org   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  