-- Enterprise Says Main Area at Mont Belvieu Undamaged by Fire
-- B y   L e e l a   L a n d r e s s
-- 2011-02-08T21:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/enterprise-reports-fire-at-mont-belvieu-plant-update1-.html
  Enterprise Products Partners LP ’s
Mont Belvieu plant near Houston was on fire after an explosion
that a company spokesman said is believed to have occurred at a
natural gas liquids pipeline.  “The main area of the complex, where the fractionators and
splitters are, has not been damaged,” Rick Rainey, the
spokesman, said in a telephone interview from Mont Belvieu. One
person is unaccounted for, he said.  The complex 35 miles (56 kilometers) east of Houston is a
pricing point for gas liquids including ethane, butane and
propane. The facility fractionates, or separates, these
components from mixtures of gas liquids gathered at drilling
sites across  North America , according to Enterprise’s  website .
Mont Belvieu has a capacity of 305,000 barrels a day.  “The pipeline has been blocked in at the storage facility,
and personnel are on site to monitor and bring this under
control,” he said. Firefighters were letting the fire burn
itself out rather than trying to extinguish it.  Enterprise fell $1.15, or 2.6 percent, to $42.65 at 4:15
p.m. in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The
decline was the largest since Dec. 15. The shares fell as low as
$42.42 after the fire.  The fire started in a pipe rack area after a pump failure,
Chambers County Judge Jimmy Sylvia said in a telephone
interview.  Explosion’s Impact  TJ Schultz, an analyst in Austin, Texas, with  RBC Capital
Markets , said it’s too soon to predict the explosion’s impact on
Enterprise’s operations.  “It is basically the hub for natural gas liquids
fractionation” at Enterprise, Schultz said.    LyondellBasell Industries NV  has cut production at its La
Porte and Channelview chemical plants in Texas after a
disruption in supplies,  David Harpole , a company spokesman, said
in a telephone interview.  “We receive ethane and propane from Enterprise for La
Porte and ethane for Channelview,” Harpole said. “We have
reduced rates at both as we access options for alternative
supplies.”  The plant supplies crude oil refineries with butane and
isobutene, said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates
LLC in Houston. In winter, refineries use butane to blend into
gasoline, he said.  Adding Capacity  Enterprise announced in October that it was building a
fifth fractionation “train” at the plant that could handle
75,000 barrels per day. The plant’s total capacity was expected
to reach 380,000 barrels a day when the new train opened in
early 2012. Enterprise was building a 127-mile pipeline from
South  Texas  to the Mont Belvieu plant, with a capacity of 60,000
barrels per day.  Enterprise announced in November the addition of
approximately 2 million barrels of new underground storage
capacity for motor gasoline and distillates at Mont Belvieu.  In October, the company signed a contract to process
natural gas and crude oil produced by Dallas-based Pioneer
Natural Resources, Reliance Eagleford Upstream Holding LP and
Newpel LLC.  The three companies are producing natural gas, crude oil
and natural gas liquids from 300,000 acres in the Eagle Ford
Shale in South Texas. Some processing was to be conducted at
Mont Belvieu until Enterprise opened a fractionation plant in
South Texas.  Chesapeake Energy also has an agreement to ship gas to the
Mont Belvieu plant, the Oil & Gas Journal reported in December.
Chesapeake is producing gas from 625,000 acres in the Eagle Ford
Shale in South Texas.  Enterprise also owns a gasoline additive production
facility in Mont Belvieu that produces isooctane, a motor
gasoline octane enhancement additive used in reformulated motor
gasoline blends to increase octane, and isobutylene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leela Landress in Houston at 
 llandress@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  