-- EU Rescue Fund Won't Go Far Enough to Avert Crisis, Ruskin Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2011-02-08T19:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/eu-rescue-fund-won-t-go-far-enough-to-avert-crisis-ruskin-says-tom-keene.html
Attempts to bolster  Europe ’s rescue
fund and increase lending for nations with heavy debt burdens
won’t go far enough to stave off the monetary union’s crisis,
according to  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG.  “I do not think any changes to the fund will be large
enough,” said New York-based Ruskin in a Bloomberg Television
interview on “Surveillance Midday” with Tom Keene. “Will the
purchases of debt be sufficient to change the debt dynamic in
various countries like  Greece  and periphery countries? The
answer to all that is no.”  European Union leaders are due to decide next month on ways
to make the European Financial Stability Facility more robust,
including letting it lend closer to its 440 billion-euro ($600
billion) capacity, resulting in more bond sales. The EFSF was
set up in May to backstop the region’s most fiscally challenged
nations and prevent debt-crisis contagion. Greek Prime Minister
George Papandreou said today it was critical to expand the EFSF.  Countries such as Germany and  France , unlike the U.S., have
not recovered the economic growth lost during the recession,
Ruskin said.  The difference in borrowing costs in the euro region
suggested the euro may trade in the upper $1.20s range, Ruskin
said. Benchmark 10-year German bunds yielded 3.26 percent today,
compared with 11.2 percent for Greek 10-year securities. U.S.
10-year notes yielded 3.71 percent.  The euro strengthened 0.5 percent today to $1.3650. It has
gained 2 percent this year versus the greenback.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead8@bloomberg.net ;  Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  