-- European Soccer Clubs Say Patience Running Out With FIFA Over Governance
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-08T18:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/european-soccer-clubs-say-patience-running-out-with-fifa-over-governance.html
  Europe ’s biggest soccer clubs warned
FIFA they may take action unless the sport’s governing body
starts consulting them before making scheduling decisions on
players trained and employed by them.  The European Club Association, a trade body that represents
around 200 of the continent’s top teams, met today in Geneva,
and executives said they’re concerned about how soccer is
governed. They asked  FIFA  to consult clubs before ruling on
changes to the fixture calendar, and come to an agreement on
insurance costs and other decisions that affect club soccer.  “I wouldn’t say we are at war: The clubs are very patient
but we have limits,” Barcelona President  Sandro Rosell , an ECA
vice president, told reporters at a press conference. He
declined to say what the consequences would be.  Clubs are upset that FIFA added two international fixtures
to the annual match calendar without entering into discussions
with the teams. European clubs were also angered by the staging
of exhibition matches weeks after the end of the 2010 World Cup
in  South Africa , before many of the players had started pre-
season training. Demands for FIFA to cover insurance costs for
players on national team duty have reached stalemate.  “All of a sudden we discover they can modify the calendar
at any time of the year,” said AC Milan director Umberto Gandini, who’s also an ECA vice president. “Our players, after
an exhausting European season, don’t have a rest.”  Gandini said there are no meetings set with FIFA, though he
stressed that the organization must speak with the ECA before
deciding the 2014-18 soccer schedule.  Disrupted  He said this week’s games, which require players to spend
four days with their national teams, wouldn’t be enough to
achieve anything practical, while they disrupted the European
league season.  “Tell me who is a national team manager or club manager
who is happy there is an international friendly match
tomorrow?” he said. “It’s just nonsense.”  Since Qatar was given the right to host the 2022  World Cup ,
FIFA President Sepp Blatter and  Michel Platini , the head of
European soccer, have publicly spoken about the possibility of
moving the tournament to the northern hemisphere’s winter to
avoid the heat in the Gulf state.  Blatter yesterday said the competition would probably
remain a June/July event. The ECA said the manner of the public
pronouncements on issues that would seriously alter the way
their league schedules were structured was an example of FIFA’s
“top down” approach.  “This is an issue that hasn’t been dealt with correctly,”
said Manchester United’s Chief Executive Officer  David Gill , an
ECA board member. “It’s not just our view. It’s the view of the
leagues as well. This is a major thing that would have
ramifications for club football for three seasons. For it to
happen in that way was somewhat surprising.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Geneva via the London newsroom at 
3677 or  tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  