-- Teva Shares Drop After Profit, Forecast Miss Estimates
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2011-02-08T21:11:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/teva-fourth-quarter-profit-rises-35-to-1-1-billion-on-sales-of-copaxone.html
  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd .
fell the most in more than six months in New York trading after
the Israeli drugmaker’s fourth-quarter earnings and forecast for
this year missed analysts’ estimates.  Earnings this year will be $4.90 to $5.20 a share, Chief
Executive Officer Shlomo Yanai told analysts on a conference
call, less than the $5.29 average of 23 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. The  Petah Tikva , Israel-based company reported profit
for the quarter of $1.25 a share, missing the average estimate
of $1.28 a share from 21 analysts surveyed in the past month.  Earnings excluding some costs climbed to $1.14 billion from
$847 million a year earlier, driven by sales of the Copaxone
multiple sclerosis medicine. Teva raised the price of the drug
by 10 percent twice last year and increased it 15 percent last
month. About 21 percent of Teva’s sales for the quarter came
from the injectable drug, which faces new competition after U.S.
authorities approved the first MS pill,  Novartis AG ’s Gilenya,
in September.  “Everything was weak outside of Copaxone,” said Gilad Alper, a Tel Aviv-based analyst for Meitav Ltd. who rates the
shares “market perform.” The forecast “will disappoint the
market,” he said.  Teva’s American depositary receipts, each representing one
ordinary share, fell $2.96, or 5.4 percent, to $52.02 at 4 p.m.
New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading.  Generic-Drug Sales  The world’s biggest maker of copied drugs, Teva reported a
5 percent decline in U.S. generic-drug sales to $1.29 billion.
This may be viewed as “serious” by investors, Alper said.  Teva predicted “continuous profitable growth” this year.
The company sees more uncertainty in the U.S. generic-drug
market than in any other market because delaying the
introduction of a single product may have a significant impact
on sales, Yanai said during a press conference in  Tel Aviv .  “We gave a range, and we were inside that range,” Yanai
said of expectations for earnings. “The idea that we should be
accurate within a hair’s breadth is exaggerated.”  Sales rose 16 percent to $4.42 billion, missing the average
analyst estimate of $4.65 billion. A stronger dollar compared
with European currencies cut sales by about $140 million,
reducing operating income by about $51 million.  Ratiopharm Purchase  Boosted by the acquisition in March of  Germany ’s Ratiopharm
GmbH, sales in  Europe  rose 43 percent to $1.3 billion, while
revenue in  North America  increased 7 percent to $2.49 billion.
Manufacturing problems at an Irvine, California, plant cost the
company about $170 million in operating profit, Chief Financial
Officer Eyal Desheh said on the conference call.  The company’s reported profit doesn’t meet generally
accepted accounting principles because it excludes costs linked
to acquisitions such as the Ratiopharm deal. On a net income
basis, Teva earned $771 million in the quarter, more than double
the $379 million in the year-ago period.  A strong shekel hurt Teva’s European sales, Desheh said in
the press conference.  Copaxone revenue increased 26 percent in the quarter to
$938 million.  Copaxone sales were “amazing,” said Natali Gotlieb, a Tel
Aviv-based analyst for Israel Brokerage & Investments who has a
“buy” rating on the shares. “Maybe they want to squeeze the
lemon, to gain as much as they can before any other competition
will arise for Copaxone.”  The most recent Copaxone price increase in January is
likely to drive earnings this year, Gotlieb said. Copaxone has
gone from being the cheapest in its category of MS drugs to the
most expensive, she said, though it remains less costly than the
Novartis pill Gilenya and Tysabri, a treatment by  Biogen Idec
Inc . and Elan Corp. often used to treat people with more severe
forms of the neurological disease.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Frankfurt at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in Tel Aviv at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  