-- Ex-Lehman Executives, Underwriters Sued by Calpers Over Bonds
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ex-lehman-executives-underwriters-accused-by-calpers-of-hiding-bond-risks.html
  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .
executives and underwriters were sued by the  California  Public
Employees’ Retirement System over claims they hid Lehman’s
exposure to subprime loans when they sold the pension fund about
$700 million in bonds.  The retirement system known as Calpers said in a complaint
filed yesterday in federal court in  San Francisco  that the
executives and about 34 investment banks made false statements
in offering documents for bonds issued from June 2007 to
September 2008.  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, is among a group of
Lehman creditors that filed a competing reorganization plan in
December for the company after objecting to Lehman’s original
plan to emerge from court protection. Lehman filed a revised
plan to exit Chapter 11 on Jan. 25, offering bondholders more
money.  Calpers, hedge fund Paulson & Co., and other sponsors of
the rival plan together hold about $16 billion of senior Lehman
bonds.  Defendants named in yesterday’s lawsuit include former
Lehman Chief Executive Officer Richard Fuld and  Citigroup Inc .’s
Citigroup Global Markets unit. Patricia Hynes, Fuld’s attorney,
and  Alexander Samuelson , a Citigroup spokesman, didn’t
immediately return voice-mail messages left after regular
business hours yesterday.  Lehman, once the fourth-largest investment bank, filed the
biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September 2008, listing
$613 billion in debt.  The case is The California Public Employees’ Retirement
System v. Fuld, 11-00562, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 