-- Formula One Driver Kubica Faces More Surgery, Still Improving After Crash
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2011-02-08T14:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/f-1-s-robert-kubica-is-still-improving-after-crash-faces-further-surgery.html
Formula One driver  Robert Kubica  will
face additional surgery this week as his condition continues to
improve after he suffered multiple fractures in a rally crash in  Italy , his team said.  Kubica, 26, underwent a seven-hour operation two days ago
at the Santa Corona Hospital in Pietra Ligure after sustaining
injuries to his right arm and leg in the accident near Genoa.  “The levels of inflammation are in the norm considering
his medical condition, and the recovery of his forearm remains
encouraging,” Lotus Renault GP said in an e-mailed statement.  The Pole was able to talk to his doctors and relatives
yesterday, has reacted well to the news about his condition
“and is ready to fight for his comeback,” Lotus Renault said.  “On Thursday, Robert should undergo some more surgery in
order to stabilize the fractures to his right shoulder and right
foot,” the team said. “Three or four days later, another
operation will allow his elbow fracture to be stabilized as
well.”  He’ll stay in the hospital for up to three weeks before a
decision is made about where he continues his recovery.  The accident came five weeks before the 2011 Formula One
season starts in Bahrain and places doubts over the Pole’s
future prospects in the sport.  Kubica was driving a Skoda Fabia when the car left the road
about 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) after the start, broke a crash
barrier and collided with a church wall, according to  Poland ’s
TVN24. A part of the barrier penetrated the car, the broadcaster
said.  F-1 Debut in 2006  Kubica’s driving partner with Lotus Renault is  Russia ’s
Vitaly Petrov. One of the team’s reserve drivers, Bruno Senna of  Brazil  or Romain Grosjean of  France , may replace Kubica if he
can’t race. Senna is a nephew of former F-1 champion Ayrton
Senna, who was killed in an accident in 1994.  Kubica made his F-1 debut in 2006 and has competed in 76
Grand Prix races, scoring his only victory in  Canada  in 2008 for
the BMW-Sauber team. After four years with Sauber he joined
Renault for the 2010 campaign and finished eighth in last
season’s standings. The team has linked up with Lotus cars as a
partner for the new season.  Kubica’s best performance in the drivers’ championship came
in 2008 when he finished fourth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 