-- Fabregas Next on Abramovich's Wanted List for Chelsea: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2011-02-08T08:56:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/fabregas-next-on-abramovich-s-wanted-list-for-chelsea-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Roman’s Riches  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  wants to follow up his 50
million-pound ($81 million) swoop for  Fernando Torres  by signing
his fellow Spanish national team member Cesc Fabregas from
Arsenal, the  Sun reported .  The Russian billionaire will trump any offer made by
Fabregas’s boyhood club Barcelona by offering 50 million pounds
for the midfielder, the newspaper said.  Arsenal captain Fabregas came close to moving to Barcelona
last year before pledging his future to the Gunners. The Sun
said Chelsea sees Fabregas as the “ideal partner” for  Frank
Lampard  in the team’s “engine room.”  Hiddink Return?  Chelsea wants to continue its rebuilding process by
bringing Guus Hiddink back to Stamford Bridge, the  Daily Mail
reported .  Hiddink spent three months as manager at Chelsea after it
fired Luiz Felipe Scolari in February 2009. He’s now managing
the Turkish national side but Abramovich wants the Dutchman to
replace Frank Arnesen as sporting director when his contract
expires this summer, the newspaper said.  Chelsea has held talks with  Barcelona ’s Txiki Begiristain
and West Ham manager Avram Grant has also been linked with a
return, the Mail added.  Reina Link  Liverpool goalkeeper Pepe Reina has indicated he’s prepared
to move to Manchester United as a replacement for Edwin van der
Sar,  the Sun reported .  The goalkeeper has stunned his team by refusing to rule out
a 20 million-pound move to the Reds’ rivals, the newspaper said.  Van der Sar, 40, will retire at the end of the season. The
Sun reported that United will activate an escape clause in
Reina’s contract.  Tevez Warning  Greater Manchester police has told  Manchester City  to warn
striker  Carlos Tevez  against making any “provocative” comments
ahead of its meeting with the Argentine’s former club, and
City’s local rival,  Manchester United , the  Telegraph reported .  Police also asked pubs near United’s Old Trafford stadium
to “restrict the flow of alcohol,” the newspaper added.  Good Value  Arsenal striker Nicklas Bendtner believes soccer players
are worth their multi-million pound salaries, the  Daily Mail
reported.   Bendtner said he’s sacrificed his privacy and his passion
for skiing in order to play soccer, the newspaper cited the Dane
as saying.  “Somehow I believe that we must be worth our salaries
because that is how the mechanism of society works,” the
newspaper quoted Bendtner as saying. “As long as I work as hard
as I can, I believe I am worth what is coming my way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 