-- Facebook Says It May Win Advertising From China Even After Ban
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2011-02-08T13:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/facebook-says-it-may-win-advertising-from-china-even-after-ban.html
Facebook Inc., inaccessible in  China 
since 2009, said it may start winning advertising sales from
companies in the world’s fastest-growing major economy after
opening an office in neighboring  Hong Kong .  Chinese companies seeking to sell their products overseas
may “potentially” buy advertising from Facebook, Jayne Leung,
who heads the Palo Alto, California-based company’s sales
operations in Hong Kong, said in an interview today. Facebook at
present has no customers from China in its direct sales
division, she said.  Facebook, owner of the world’s most popular social-
networking service, opened the office in Hong Kong, a special
administrative region of China, to boost business in the city
and Taiwan, it said in a statement today. Chief Executive
Officer Mark Zuckerberg visited China in December and held
meetings with executives at local Internet companies including
Baidu Inc. and Sina Corp.  Leung, a former executive at  Google Inc ., said Facebook’s
latest office in the Asian region will focus on Taiwan and Hong
Kong, which have separate Internet regulations from China. She
couldn’t confirm if Chinese companies are already buying
advertising by placing orders on Facebook’s website, rather than
through the direct sales division.  China’s system of Internet monitoring blocks overseas
websites such as Facebook, Twitter Inc. and Google’s Youtube,
and requires domestic websites to self-censor content that’s
pornographic or related to gambling, in addition to political
topics such as Tibet independence and the Tiananmen Square
student protests in 1989.  Indonesia,  India ,  Brazil   Zuckerberg’s December visit to China was for personal
reasons, Blake Chandlee, a vice-president at Facebook, said
today in Hong Kong, where he addressed a meeting that’s part of
Social Media Week, a local industry event. Chandlee declined to
comment on Facebook’s plans for China.  The world’s most populous nation had 457 million  Internet
users  at the end of last year, according to the  China Internet
Network Information Center , a government-affiliated group that
compiles industry statistics. That’s more than the combined
populations of the U.S. and Japan.  Indonesia is expected to remain Facebook’s biggest market
outside of the U.S. in terms of users, Chandlee said. Facebook,
which has more than 500 million users, is increasing its sales
and users in emerging markets including Brazil, India and
Russia, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Lee in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  