-- Farm-Finance Conditions Improved, Kansas City Fed Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2011-02-08T18:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/farm-finances-improve-in-u-s-as-crop-land-values-surge-fed-study-shows.html
The jump in commodity prices last
year improved the financial health of U.S. farmers, sending
Midwest cropland to record values and boosting profits for rural
banks and equipment makers, a Federal Reserve report concluded.  Higher incomes allowed farmers to repay debt in the fourth
quarter, reducing delinquencies and boosting bank profit,
according to the report, produced by the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Kansas City . Agricultural lenders are outperforming other
bankers as returns on assets and equity gained for a third
straight quarter, the Fed said.  The price of corn, the biggest U.S. crop, surged 88 percent
in the past year, cotton more than doubled, and soybeans rallied
53 percent. Wheat touched a 29-month high today. The rally has
fueled a jump in property values. In  Iowa , the largest corn-
grower, cropland jumped 13 percent from a year earlier, and as
much as 25 percent of purchases in the state are being made by
outside investors, said Jason Henderson, a Fed economist.  “If you look at the Midwest, heartland area, they’re
enjoying stronger economic activity, lower levels of
unemployment and stronger job growth, primarily because
agriculture and commodity markets have been so strong,”
Henderson said today in a telephone interview from the  Kansas
City  Fed’s branch in Omaha,  Nebraska .  As much as 16 percent of the $14.87 trillion  U.S. economy 
may be affected by agriculture, including equipment
manufacturing, food processing and grain handling, according to
Henderson, the lead author of the Fed report.  Cheap Farm Loans  As demand for land and farm machinery improves,  interest
rates  on loans are the lowest on records going back to 1982,
Henderson said. Farmers in the Great Plains can get loans at 6.4
percent interest to buy cropland and machinery loans at 6.7
percent, the lowest in almost 30 years, he said.  Low borrowing costs on cropland “is a function of the
overall rest of the economy,” which hasn’t improved as quickly
as agriculture, Henderson said. The  Federal Reserve ’s benchmark
interest rate has been unchanged in a range of zero percent to
0.25 percent since November 2008.  U.S. farm income last year probably exceeded the 2004
record of $87.3 billion, and cropland values gained as much as
10 percent, according to estimates by Neil Harl, an agricultural
economist at Iowa State University, and former adviser to the
governments of Ukraine and the  Czech Republic .  Higher Food Costs  World food prices rose to a record in January on higher
dairy, sugar and cereal costs and probably will remain elevated,
the  United Nations  said Feb. 3. An index of 55 food commodities
climbed 3.4 percent from December to 231 points, the seventh
straight increase, the UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization 
said. Dairy prices led advances among five food categories,
rising 6.2 percent, the Rome-based agency said.  In the U.S., retail food costs rose 1.5 percent last year
and will gain as little as 2 percent in 2011, the Department of
Agriculture estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  