-- Fed Requests Comments on Proposals for Dodd-Frank Law
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2011-02-08T15:54:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/fed-seeks-comment-on-proposed-definitions-for-systemically-important-firms.html
The  Federal Reserve  requested comment
on proposed rules about “systemically important” companies
required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act overhauling U.S. financial regulation.  The central bank said in a statement today in Washington
that it is requesting comment on two rules. The first determines
whether a company is “significantly engaged in financial
activities,” and the second defines the terms “significant
nonbank financial company” and “significant bank holding
company.”  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack Obama  in July, requires the Fed to define terms that the
Financial Stability Oversight Council, chaired by the Secretary
of the Treasury, will use in determining which companies are
“systemically important” and subject to additional regulation.  The law defines a company as “significantly engaged in
financial activities” if 85 percent or more of its revenue or
assets are related to activities deemed to be financial in
nature under the  Bank Holding Company  Act, the Fed said.  The rule proposes making this determination from a two-year
test based on consolidated financial statements.  The central bank, taking a usual step in rule-making, is
requesting that comment be submitted by March 30.  The authority of designating a firm as “systemically
important” rests with the Financial Stability Oversight
Council. One criteria the council may use in designating this
status is whether a company is engaged in relationships with
other “significant” financial companies.  The proposal defines “significant” as a bank holding
company or non-bank financial firm with over $50 billion in
total consolidated assets.  The Dodd-Frank legislation already established $50 billion
as the threshold at which bank holding companies require
additional supervision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  