-- SAC Ex-Portfolio Managers Accused in Trading Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   K a t e   B u r t o n
-- 2011-02-09T13:22:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/former-sac-capital-employees-among-those-charged-in-insider-investigation.html
Noah Freeman and Donald Longueuil,
former portfolio managers at SAC Capital Advisors LP, were 
accused of  insider trading  while working at the $12 billion
hedge fund in the latest round of charges stemming from a
nationwide crackdown by federal prosecutors.  The allegations mark the first time in the 16-month U.S.
probe that insider trading has been publicly alleged to have
occurred at SAC Capital. Other former employees of the firm, and
hedge funds started by SAC alumni, have been tied to the probe.  Longueuil, who worked at SAC Capital’s CR Intrinsic unit
from July 2008 to July 2010, was arrested yesterday. Freeman,
who worked at the hedge fund founded by  Steven A. Cohen  from
June 2008 to January 2010, pleaded guilty Feb. 7 as part of a
cooperation deal with prosecutors.  Two others charged in the probe are Samir Barai, the
founder of Barai Capital Management, and Jason Pflaum, who
worked for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty in December as part of a
cooperation deal. From 2006 to 2010, the four men, while working
at six funds, swapped tips from employees of public companies
and from consultants at an expert networking firm, prosecutors
said.  “They took the concept of social networking and turned it
into a criminal enterprise,” Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said yesterday at a press conference.  ‘Unrelenting Attack’  “This is part of the unrelenting attack of the government
against perceived abuses on  Wall Street ,”  Anthony Sabino , a
professor at St. John’s University School of Law in New York,
said yesterday in a phone interview.   Hedge funds  are
particularly vulnerable because of their methods of getting
information.”  Cohen started SAC Capital in 1992 after leaving Gruntal &
Co., a New York brokerage firm. His track record at SAC Capital
-- a 30 percent average annual return for 18 years -- is one of
the best in the hedge fund business. SAC Capital has had one
annual loss since it was founded in 1992: a 19 percent drop for
the flagship SAC Capital International Ltd. in 2008.  “We are outraged by the alleged actions of two former
employees, which required active circumvention of our compliance
policies and are egregious violations of our ethical
standards,” SAC Capital said yesterday in a statement. “The
government alleges that their improper conduct together began at
their prior firms in 2006 and continued after they joined SAC in
mid-2008.”  ‘A Short Time’  The Stamford, Connecticut-based hedge fund said the
defendants were employed “for a short time” and fired last
year “due to poor performance.”  Freeman was based in SAC Capital’s  Boston  office while
Longueuil worked in New York. The firm said it’s cooperating
with the government investigation.  The charges are connected to earlier arrests of eight
employees or consultants at  Primary Global Research LLC , a  Mountain View , California-based expert-networking firm that
links investors with industry experts who work for public
companies. Barai got inside tips from Primary Global consultants
Anthony Longoria and Winifred Jiau, both previously charged,
according to the complaint  Barai was granted release on $1 million bail by U.S.
Magistrate Judge Frank Maas in  Manhattan . Maas said Barai could
be released yesterday and must surrender his travel documents.  Evan Barr, Barai’s lawyer, declined to comment after court.  Bail Granted  Longueuil was arraigned yesterday before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Theodore Katz, who granted his release on a $1.5 million
bond secured by $750,000 in cash or property.  Janice Fedarcyk, who heads the New York office of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said at the press conference
that the investigation will continue for “some time” and that
there will be more arrests.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday sued
the four, saying they earned more than $30 million on insider
trades of stock in companies including  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc .,  Marvell Technology Group Ltd .,  Western Digital Corp .,  Fairchild Semiconductor International Inc . and  Seagate
Technology Plc .  In their criminal complaint, prosecutors detailed
conversations that Barai, Pflaum and Longueuil allegedly had
after reading a media report on Nov. 19 about the government’s
investigation.  “The more I think about it -- just not enough clues to
hold something on us,” Barai wrote to Pflaum in a BlackBerry
message, according to the complaint.  Mosaic Theory  “We use all mosaic theory,” Barai allegedly wrote,
purportedly explaining their trades. “So we’re ok.”  With mosaic theory, analysts place a value on a security by
assembling data about a company from several sources, public and
nonpublic, according to Investopedia, a financial education
website.  “Shred as much as u can,” Barai added.  After reading a news report, Longueuil went to his office
at about 2 a.m. and took pliers to two external drives on his
computer, destroying them, prosecutors said. He then walked for
20 blocks, dumping the parts in four separate garbage trucks,
prosecutors said.  “Chopped it up, chopped up everything,” Longueuil wrote
in a text to Freeman, according to the complaint.  Barai and Longueuil were charged with conspiracy to commit
securities fraud,  securities fraud , and obstruction. They face
as long as 20 years in prison on the most serious charges.  Criminal Complaint  The criminal complaint doesn’t mention SAC Capital. In
court papers, the government said that in October 2009, while
Freeman was at “Hedge Fund B,” he had a telephone conversation
with a co-conspirator. The date coincides with Freeman’s time as
an employee at SAC Capital.  SAC Capital has come up at other times during the U.S.
probe.  In November, FBI agents searched the offices of Level
Global Investors LP and Diamondback Capital Management LLC in
probing illegal trading by hedge funds. Both firms were founded
by former SAC Capital employees. No one connected to those firms
has been accused of wrongdoing.  At a criminal trial in September in  New York , a former UBS
AG investment banker testified that he “provided confidential
information” to a friend who worked as an analyst at SAC
Capital.  SAC Alumnus  Richard Choo-Beng Lee, the co-founder of Spherix Capital
LLC and another SAC Capital alumnus, has pleaded guilty and is
cooperating with prosecutors in its probe of the Galleon Group
hedge fund. Portfolio manager Richard Grodin, who left SAC
Capital to start Stratix Asset Management LLC in 2004, also has
received a subpoena, according to a person familiar with the
investigation.  Freeman was a managing director at Sonar Capital Management
LLC in Boston from March 2005 to May 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A month after leaving Sonar, he moved to
SAC Capital. Neil Druker, founder of Sonar Capital, didn’t
immediately return phone messages seeking comment. Freeman also
worked as an analyst for Brookside Capital until 2004, according
to LinkedIn, a professional networking website.  “Any violation of law by Mr. Freeman was unauthorized and
unknown to Sonar and, to Sonar’s knowledge, took place without
the involvement of management or any other Sonar employee,” the
firm said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “Sonar Capital
has robust policies against insider trading and expects its
personnel to fully comply with such policies.”  Freeman’s lawyer, Benjamin Rosenberg, declined to comment.  Investment Manager  Before joining CR Intrinsic, Longueuil worked at Empire
Capital and was an investment manager focusing on the media,
technology, telecommunications and energy industries at  Morgan
Stanley , according to a posting on Spoke.com, another
professional networking website.  Prior to working at Morgan Stanley, he was a research
analyst for Longueuil & Co., working directly as an outsourced
researcher for hedge funds and other investment professionals,
according to the website.  Pflaum, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and securities
fraud, worked as a research analyst for Barai and obtained
illegal tips. His lawyer, Michael Grudberg, declined to comment.  Prosecutors said in their complaint that Pflaum had a
source at South Portland, Maine-based Fairchild without
identifying the person.  Barai and Freeman  The complaint links Barai and Freeman to Primary Global
consultants. According to the complaint, Jiau provided Barai and
Freeman with information about earnings of Hamilton, Bermuda-
based Marvell in May 2008. As a result, Barai’s fund bought more
than 300,000 shares of Marvell and Longueiul’s fund purchased
more than 800,500 shares, together making almost $2 million,
according to the complaint.  Jiau appeared in Manhattan federal court yesterday and was
ordered held without bail after Maas said she was a flight risk
because she is a Taiwanese citizen. Prosecutors said the U.S.
doesn’t have an extradition treaty with  Taiwan .  The complaint also quotes Longueuil’s referring to “wafer
numbers,” which is likely a term for silicon chip production
data. The world’s two biggest chipmakers are based in Taiwan.  Manosha Karunatilaka, a U.S. employee of Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the largest chipmaker, was
arrested in December for disclosing production data while
consulting for Primary Global. Jiau once worked for Primary
Global and had worked for Taiwan Semiconductor, said her lawyer,
Fred Hafetz.  Separately, Karl Motey, an independent consultant in  California  who pleaded guilty, has said he got tips from a
source at Taiwan-based United Microelectronics Corp., the second
largest, according to court records.  The case is U.S. v. Barai, 11-mag-00332, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York federal court at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at +1-212-617-1092
or  drovella@bloomberg.net . 