-- Former UBS Strategist's Hand-Made Zai Skis Will Supply World Championships
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-02-08T09:05:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/former-ubs-strategist-s-hand-made-zai-skis-will-supply-world-championships.html
Zai AG , the hand-made Swiss ski brand
headed by a former  UBS AG  senior currency strategist, will be
the official ski supplier of the  FIS alpine ski world
championships .  The event starts today in Garmisch-Partenkirchen,  Germany ,
about 18 months after Benedikt Germanier, 44, swapped UBS’s  Stamford ,  Connecticut , trading floor for the production of skis
in  Disentis , an Alpine village 44 miles from Davos.  “This is a chance to show the world that we are not just a
luxury ski brand,” Germanier, chief executive officer at Zai,
said in an interview. “It’s about the quality and the
performance, without this you would never end up being named as
an official supplier.”  Zai joins  Siemens AG ,  Europe ’s biggest engineering company,  Coca-Cola Co . and German state-owned rail operator Deutsche Bahn
AG as official suppliers to the world championships, where
competition starts with the women’s super-G event. The Zai skis,
built using 50 million-year-old granite as well as high-tech
materials, cost between 3,155 Swiss francs ($3,300) and 9,370
Swiss francs.  Zai will supply its new $7,300  Nezza  ski to FIS officials
overseeing 11 world championship races that will include Olympic
super combined champion Bode Miller and  Lindsey Vonn , who won a
gold medal on the downhill at last year’s Vancouver Winter
Games. Vonn of the U.S. will be defending world titles on the
super-G and the downhill in Garmisch-Partenkirchen. The world
championships end Feb. 20 with the men’s slalom.  Sales Increased  Since Germanier joined Zai in August 2009, sales have
increased by one-third. He expects the company to start making a
profit as revenue reaches $3 million this financial year ending
in June. Investors put in an additional $2 million this year in
order to boost growth. Germanier is hiring four more people to
add to his 11-strong staff to meet demand for skis and
accessories such as sunglasses, goggles and helmets.  “It was a point where we would either say, ‘OK, this isn’t
going to work, or we take it a step further,’” Germanier, who
also founded Zai Golf AG since he joined, said. “Now it feels
like we are taking off slowly.”  Zai aims to double revenue in the next two to four years,
Germanier said. “We have a very strong position in that small
niche of high-performance, high-price ski segment. There is good
potential for us.”  The market for skis may shrink because western European
skiers are increasingly renting instead of buying their own
equipment, Martin Sundman, an analyst at FIM Bank Ltd. in
Helsinki, said in an interview. Sundman follows  Amer Sports Oyj ,
the maker of Atomic and Salomon skis.  Niche Market  Still, there may be a niche market for top end, hand-made
skis such as Zai, Sundman said.  “There are always people who will buy Ferraris,” Sundman
said.  Demand for the Nezza ski, which has holes in it so it can
absorb the snow better on hard, icy pistes, has been
outstripping supply, Germanier said. Zai has already sold more
than 100 pairs, or 40 more than he expected.  “We are working on weekends to finish it,” Germanier
said. “We can only produce four pairs a day so we are all
working like crazy.”  The skis and helmets are prominently displayed at the
 Sporthuette Fiegl  ski rental shop in the Austrian resort of
Soelden in Tyrol. They don’t come cheap to rent, costing 50
euros a day compared with 16.50 euros for Fiegl’s cheapest
rental model.  Although Zai’s lowest-priced model costs about four times
more than the average ski, “it’s not just rich people that buy
them, but mostly people who are strong skiers, such as former
ski racers and even farmers,” Germanier said.  Franco Cavegn , a
former member of the Swiss Olympic ski team, uses the brand.  ‘Different World’  Zai, which means “tough” in the local Romansch language,
was founded in 2003 by Simon Jacomet, a ski-instructor whom
Germanier befriended in the 1990s. Germanier said he jumped at
the opportunity to leave banking and start a new life with his
family in his native  Switzerland  when Jacomet asked him to
improve the business.  Germanier, who said he still follows the financial markets,
has no regrets leaving his banker lifestyle behind.  “It’s a different world,” he said. “But it’s very
exciting, because we are different from the others and it’s
always nice when you start having success.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  