-- France Will ‘Largely’ Exceed 2020 Solar Target, Official Says
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2011-02-08T13:43:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/french-government-expects-to-largely-exceed-2020-solar-energy-target.html
  France ’s solar power capacity will be
“largely” higher than the 5,400 megawatts targeted by the
government for 2020 even though subsidies will be cut, an  Environment Ministry  official said.  “The lowest scenarios studied in the current talks with
the photovoltaic industry will prompt us to go very largely
beyond what is planned,” Pierre-Franck Chevet, head of energy
and climate at the Environment Ministry, said at a conference in
Paris today. “We’ll go beyond targets.”  France in December suspended the registration of solar-
energy projects for three months to study cuts in feed-in
tariffs and measures to limit growth in the industry following a
boom in installations that will inflate the cost of electricity
paid by consumers. The halt applied to projects with a capacity
of more than 3 kilowatts.  The cost of producing a solar power ranges from 300 euros
to 600 hundred euros per megawatt-hour, compared with European
power market prices ranging from 50 euros to 70 euros, Chevet
said.  Before the suspension, France’s solar power capacity was
expected to rise to about 2,150 megawatts at the end of 2011
from 200 megawatts at the end of 2009, according to the energy
regulator.  The moratorium prompted  First Solar Inc . and  EDF Energies
Nouvelles SA , the renewable arm of Electricite de France SA, to
suspend a plan to build a 120-megawatt solar panel factory in
Blanquefort, France. Smaller makers and installers of solar
panels, supplied mostly from  China , also said the decision may
lead to job losses.  Spur on Industry  The government, seeking to encourage manufacturers to
invest in the nation, will look more favorably on proposals to
build offshore wind farms that come from companies also
expanding factories in France, Chevet said today.  Results from that contest are due in the first half of next
year. The government also will look at the “carbon footprint”
of the projects, including transport-related emissions of
turbines, as part of the evaluation of the bids.  The cost of producing power from offshore wind farms ranges
from 150 euros to 180 euros per megawatt-hour, he said. That
compared with about 120 euros to 140 euros for biomass plants,
and 80 euros for onshore wind, he added.  The French government said in January it will call for bids
by the end of the year to build  five offshore wind farms 
totalling and 3,000 megawatts. They represent an investment of
10 billion euros and are slated to be connected to the French
grid starting in 2015.  The second round of tenders for another 3,000 megawatts of
offshore wind farms needs to begin within 30 months after the
end of the first tender if France wants to meet its goal of
6,000 megawatts of offshore wind capacity in 2020, Chevet said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois De Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  