-- French Business Confidence Rose in January to Highest Since October 2007
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2011-02-08T12:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/french-business-confidence-rose-in-january-to-highest-since-october-2007.html
French manufacturing confidence rose
to the highest in more than three years in January as an
accelerating global economy buoyed export orders.  The Bank of  France ’s Business Sentiment Indicator for
manufacturers advanced to 110 from a revised 107 in December,
the central bank in Paris said in a statement today. That was
the highest since October 2007 and more than the 108 reading
economists predicted, according to the median of three forecasts
in a Bloomberg News survey.    India ’s government predicted yesterday that the economy
will expand the most in three years in 2011, while  Indonesia 
said gross domestic product increased 6.9 percent in the three
months through December. That’s driving demand for European
exports across  Europe .  “This is largely exports,” said  Dominique Barbet , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “That explains why industry
is so much more solid than services and why export orders are
stronger than domestic ones. Overall it’s a nice acceleration.”  The Bank of France’s indicator for services rose 2 points
to 101, while the reading for “global” orders jumped to 21 in
January from 12 in December. The rate of capacity utilization in
factories climbed to 79.7 from 78.4.  “Industrial activity is accelerating considerably,” the
central bank said, adding that the nation’s economy should
expand 0.8 percent in the first quarter of 2011. “Order books
are full and above what is judged to be normal levels.”  German Growth  Part of the increase in demand is driven by the expansion
in  Germany , which is being boosted by global growth and
increasing orders to other countries in the region. Europe’s
largest economy expanded a record 3.6 percent last year as a
decline in unemployment encouraged consumers to spend more and
companies to increase investment.  “Germany is powering ahead and that is boosting France as
well,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. All the surveys are “pointing to ongoing solid
growth in the manufacturing sector.”  Factory orders in Germany, Europe’s largest economy, jumped
19.7 percent in December from a year earlier, the Economy
Ministry in Berlin said yesterday. French statistics office
Insee issues industrial-production data for December on Feb. 10.  The Bank of France originally reported December business
confidence at 108.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Crag Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  