-- Raj Rajaratnam Has Little to Lose in Demanding Trial Over Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2011-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/galleon-s-rajaratnam-may-have-little-to-lose-in-demanding-trial-over-deal.html
Billionaire Raj Rajaratnam must
decide this month whether he will join the few  insider-trading 
defendants who “roll the dice” and seek acquittal by a jury.  Rajaratnam, co-founder of the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund,
is set for trial Feb. 28 in Manhattan federal court on charges
he made $45 million on illegal stock tips dating back to 2003.
He faces as long as 20 years in prison on the most serious
charges, while two legal experts predicted a 12-year term if
he’s convicted.  To secure an acquittal, Rajaratnam’s lawyers must overcome
a case built on wiretapped conversations and insiders who
pleaded guilty and may testify against him. His lawyers may also
believe they can beat some of the counts and persuade the judge
to impose a shorter term than he would get in a plea deal,
according to five lawyers not involved in the case.  “Prosecutors have some strong evidence, based on the
wiretaps, so why would they want to cut a good deal?” said
former federal prosecutor William Mateja, now with Fish &
Richardson PC in  Dallas . “From the defense side, if the
prosecution is not going to cut a good deal, then why not roll
the dice and see if they can get an acquittal?”  Rajaratnam has denied wrongdoing in a case that is the
centerpiece of the largest U.S. crackdown on hedge fund insider
trading.  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara and defense
attorney John Dowd of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP
declined to comment on whether plea talks have taken place.  Nationwide Insider Probe  Since Rajaratnam’s arrest in 2009, federal prosecutors have
charged more than 30 people in a probe of insider trading that
has expanded to other  hedge funds , banks, technology companies
and so-called expert networking firms. In an October speech,
Bharara said insider trading is “rampant.”  Dowd said in court papers that Rajaratnam, 53, broke no
laws in speaking to corporate insiders to “ferret out”
information before making trades. Prosecutors must prove that he
knew he was receiving illegal tips from company insiders who
violated their duty to keep the information confidential.  Rajaratnam is alone among the six people arrested Oct. 16,
2009, not to plead guilty.  Peter Henning , a professor at  Wayne
State University Law School  in  Detroit , said prosecutors have
too strong a case to offer the hedge fund manager anything less
than a seven- or eight-year prison term in any plea arrangement.
Henning said Rajaratnam could still plead guilty on the eve of
trial.  Secret Tips  Rajaratnam is accused of using secret tips from hedge fund
executives, corporate officials and other insiders to trade in
more than a dozen stocks, including  Intel Corp .,  International
Business Machines Corp .,  Akamai Technologies Inc .,  Google Inc .
and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc .  Rajaratnam is the “main target” in the probe, and will
serve several years in prison if he pleads guilty or is
convicted at trial, Henning said.  “Given the amount of resources that the government has put
into this case, the publicity it has garnered, and the focus on
insider trading, I can’t imagine they’re going to give their
most high-profile defendant a great plea deal,” said
Christopher Clark, a former federal prosecutor now with Dewey &
LeBoeuf LLP in  New York .  Most federal trials end in convictions, according to the
U.S. Bureau of Justice Statistics. Of 95,891 criminal trials in
fiscal 2009, 86,975 ended in convictions, or 9 out of 10,
according to the bureau. Almost 95 percent of the fraud
convictions stemmed from a plea bargain, and 5.1 percent came
from trials, according to the U.S. Sentencing Commission.  Take His Chances  Rajaratnam may take his chances with a jury because he may
win a full acquittal or defeat some of the government’s charges,
Clark said. The trial also might end with a deadlocked jury. If
convicted, his attack on what defense lawyers have called an
unprecedented use of wiretaps may provide a basis for appeal.  “The guts of the analysis is ‘If we lose, how much worse
off are we because we are buying a chance at freedom here?’”
the former prosecutor said of Rajaratnam’s defense.  Federal investigators spent years probing Rajaratnam and
his trading and found they were unable to charge him before
resorting to wiretaps. In a 2007 deposition by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Rajaratnam said his trading
was based on Galleon research.  Attorney Jeff Ifrah, who co-wrote “Federal Sentencing for
Business Crimes,” said high-level executives accused of fraud
often believe they’ll be exonerated at trial.  “They’ve been very, very successful because they feel
they’ve pushed the envelope up to the edge and not over the
line,” Ifrah said. “There have always been people in their
lives who have said ‘You can’t do that,’ or ‘That’s too
aggressive,’ and all those naysayers have been wrong.”  Successful in Court  Lawrence Lustberg, a defense attorney at Gibbons PC in
Newark,  New Jersey , agreed.  “People who have been successful in business often think
they can be equally successful in a court of law,” he said.  Rajaratnam may also be betting that his defense team can
win at least a hung jury, which in turn would give him greater
bargaining power with prosecutors, Wayne State’s Henning said.  “All Raj needs is one juror to say not guilty and the
government would have to do it all over again,” he said.  If Rajaratnam is convicted at trial, his sentence will be
based in part on advisory guidelines that include factors such
as the amount of his illicit profits.    Joseph Nacchio , former chief executive officer of  Qwest
Communications International Inc ., was convicted in 2007 of
obtaining $52 million through insider trades. Prosecutors had
charged he made $101 million, although jurors rejected some of
the counts. Nacchio was sentenced to 72 months in prison --
later reduced to 70 months -- after a government request for an
87-month term.  Persuade the Judge  Rajaratnam may also be hoping that he can persuade U.S.
District Judge  Richard Holwell , who will preside over any trial,
to impose a sentence following a conviction that’s more lenient
than one he may get in a plea deal.  In November, Holwell sentenced ex  Atheros Communications
Inc . Vice President Ali Hariri to 18 months for leaking tips
about earnings to Ali Far, a co-founder of hedge fund Spherix
Capital LLC who cooperated with prosecutors in the insider probe.
The guidelines called for a sentence of 24 to 30 months.  In 2008, Holwell ordered former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc .
banker Eugene Plotkin to serve 57 months in prison for
masterminding a $6.7 million insider scheme. Sentencing
guidelines recommended a sentence of 57 to 71 months.  “Holwell is the wild card,” Henning said.  Eighteen Month Average  The average prison sentence in 44 insider trading cases in
Manhattan since 2003 -- including those in which defendants have
pleaded guilty or gone to trial -- is about 18 months, according
to an analysis by Bloomberg News.  Only three defendants went to trial and were convicted in
Manhattan. Their average sentence was 68 months in prison,
according to the analysis. One defendant got a one-year term,
one a 6-year-term, and another a 10-year term.  The risks of trial are great. Conviction on the fraud
counts against him may mean that Rajaratnam would face about 20
years in prison under sentencing guidelines, Ifrah said.  Former  Credit Suisse Group AG  banker Hafiz Naseem received
a 10-year term for earning $7.8 million by trading on inside
tips.  Rajaratnam, by contrast, is accused of earning at least
$45 million.  Prosecutors said in court papers yesterday that they were
gathering evidence against the hedge fund manager as recently as
January, as they entered into cooperation deals with former
Galleon traders Adam Smith and Michael Cardillo.  Both Clark and Ifrah estimated that Holwell would impose a
12-year sentence if Rajaratnam is convicted following a trial.  ‘Aggressive Sentence’  “If the government ends up taking you to trial on any
given day with a $45 million loss and several co-conspirators
testifying against you, judges will impose an aggressive
sentence when they feel you’ve gone to trial with no basis,
absent a very strong and viable defense,” said Ifrah, who runs
 Ifrah PLLC  in  Washington .  Lustberg said Rajaratnam may have concluded that he has
nothing to lose by bringing his case before a jury.  “He’s been very severely harmed simply by the charges
being brought and the adverse publicity that goes with it,” the
lawyer said. “While prison may be very bad, he may feel that
he’s already been punished and there’s relatively little to lose
by going to trial and attempting to seek his vindication.”  Clark said a plea deal is unlikely to come so close to the
trial. Ifrah predicted Rajaratnam will plead guilty and strike a
deal with a maximum eight-year prison term and $45 million in
restitution while allowing the hedge fund manager to ask the
judge for a reduction of both.  “It’s just the sad reality of the government’s ability to
obtain a conviction, regardless of the defendant’s
circumstances,” Ifrah said. “It’s just very difficult to beat
the odds.”  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in New York
at   dglovin@bloomberg.net  and;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 