-- Gasoline Supply Rises to 18-Year High in Survey: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2011-02-08T21:09:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/gasoline-inventories-increase-to-most-since-1990-in-survey-energy-markets.html
U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably
climbed last week to the highest level in almost 18 years as
demand from motorists declined, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Supplies of the motor fuel increased 2.6 million barrels,
or 1.1 percent, in the seven days ended Feb. 4 from 236.2
million a week earlier, according to the median of 16 analyst
estimates before an Energy Department report tomorrow. The
projected advance would leave inventories at the highest level
since Feb. 26, 1993. All of the respondents forecast a gain.  Gasoline stockpiles have climbed in 10 of the past 11
weekly reports from the department as refinery output outpaced
demand. The crack spread, or profit for processing three barrels
of oil into two of gasoline and one of heating oil, rose to a
43-month high. Consumption fell to an 11-month low.  “Weak demand fundamentals and rising output have increased
gasoline stocks,” said  Stephen Schork , president of Schork
Group Inc., a consulting company in Villanova,  Pennsylvania .
“The crack margin makes it attractive for refiners to produce
fuel. There seems to be a disconnect between the crack and the
demand numbers.”  Crude oil stockpiles climbed 2 million barrels, or 0.6
percent, from 343.2 million the previous week, the survey
showed. It would be the fourth straight weekly advance. Fifteen
analysts gave crude forecasts and all projected an increase.  Gasoline for March delivery rose 4.37 cents, or 1.8
percent, to settle at $2.4942 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . Crude declined 54 cents, or 0.6 percent, to
$86.94 a barrel.  The crack spread surged 12 percent to $21.209 a barrel at
3:47 p.m. today based on  New York  futures prices, the highest
level since July 11, 2007.  ‘Astonishingly High Inventories’  “The crack spread is high despite astonishingly high
inventories,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures
Perspective in New York. “Prices are seemingly bulletproof
because of the flow of cash into the energy market. This has
changed the way the crack works, removing that discipline from
the market.”    Hedge funds  and other large speculators increased net-long
positions, or wagers on rising crude-oil prices, by 17 percent
in the seven days ended Feb. 1, according to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders
report on Feb. 4. It was the largest gain since the week ended
Dec. 7. Bullish or net-long bets on gasoline prices rose 5.8
percent to 65,331 futures and options combined, the data showed.  Regular gasoline at the pump, averaged nationwide, declined
0.5 cent to $3.117 a gallon yesterday, the AAA said on its
 website . Prices reached $3.124 on Feb. 3, the highest level
since Oct. 14, 2008.  Pump Prices  “Given where prices are, we may go into the summer with
weak demand and extremely high gasoline inventories,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester  Massachusetts . “Instead of a pre-summer run-up in
prices we could see them weaken significantly.”  Pump prices have climbed in the first two quarters during
five of the past six years, according to AAA data.  Gasoline consumption fell 1 percent to 8.55 million barrels
a day in the week ended Jan. 28, the lowest amount since the
week ended Feb. 12, 2010, department figures show.  Imports of the motor fuel surged 82 percent to 1.17 million
barrels a day in the same period, the highest level since
August, according to the department. It was the biggest one-week
increase since September 2006.  Refinery Operations  Refineries probably operated at 84.7 percent of capacity,
down 0.15 percentage point from the week before, according to
the Bloomberg survey. Refiners bolstered operating rates 3.3
percent in the week ended Jan. 28, the biggest one-week gain
since Dec. 3.  “Both the supply and demand side are pointing to higher
gasoline stocks,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics, an energy advisory firm in Austin,  Texas . “We’re
expecting a very big build because of the big increase in
refinery utilization, and demand was weak because the winter
weather kept people off the roads.”  A winter storm moved across the U.S. from the Midwest to  Maine  last week, grounding thousands of flights. Chicago had its
third-largest snowfall on record as gusts of 70 miles per hour
(113 kilometers per hour) off  Lake Michigan  closed Lake Shore Drive and stranded hundreds of cars and buses.  Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes
heating oil and diesel, probably slipped 1 million barrels, or
0.6 percent, from 164.1 million, the inventory survey showed.
Twelve of the analysts anticipated a decline, two projected an
increase and two said there was no change.  The department is scheduled to release its weekly report at
10:30 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 