-- GE Capital Plans Subordinated Debt Ahead of Fed Rules
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i   a n d   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 2011-02-08T17:43:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/general-electric-capital-to-sell-benchmark-subordinated-notes.html
  General Electric Co .’s finance arm is
marketing $2 billion of subordinated debt for the first time
since 2005 as it prepares to be regulated by the  Federal
Reserve .  The notes from General Electric Capital Corp. are expected
to be counted as so-called Tier 2 capital, said  Russell Wilkerson , a company spokesman. The 10-year debt may yield 162.5
basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries, said a
person familiar with the transaction.  GE Capital, which will be overseen by the Fed under the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul set to take effect in July, plans
to raise $25 billion to $30 billion of long-term securities this
year. The unit boosted its estimated  Tier 1 capital  ratio, a
measure of the ability to absorb potential losses, to 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter from 7.5 percent a year earlier,
according to a  presentation  last month to investors.  “What we’re seeing is the company getting its ducks in
order for its  capital ratios  for when it becomes regulated by
the Fed,” said Adam Steer, a senior analyst in  New York  at
research firm CreditSights Inc. “They have no need outside of
this for subordinated debt. It’s a result of Dodd-Frank.”  The unit of Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE expects the
sale to “further strengthen our total risk based-capital,
providing further flexibility in capital allocation decisions,”
Wilkerson said.  ‘Attractive Environment’  Tier 1 capital includes securities such as common stock
while Tier 2 incorporates a broader range of securities that are
used if an institution becomes insolvent.  GE Capital issued $6 billion of senior unsecured bonds on
Jan. 4 in the biggest corporate debt offering in 11 months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has raised
about $8 billion toward its 2011 goal, Wilkerson said.  “We believe this is an attractive environment in which to
issue, and there will be strong demand from investors for this
type of transaction,” he said.    GE Capital ’s January sale included $2 billion of 4.625
percent, 10-year debt that priced at 99.62 cents on the dollar
to yield 135 basis points more than similar-maturity Treasuries,
Bloomberg data show.  The notes traded yesterday at 98.5 cents on the dollar to
yield 4.8 percent, or a 116.8 basis-point spread, according to
Trace, the bond price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  ‘Capital as Cheap’  The offering “suggests that GE views Tier 2 capital or
subordinated capital as cheap,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-
income strategist and economist at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC
in Philadelphia. “Given the demand for cash in the marketplace
right now, I think the notes will be received pretty positively,
especially since they’ll yield above the senior debt.”  Today’s notes are expected to be rated Aa3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and AA by  Standard & Poor’s , said the person
familiar with the offering, who declined to be identified
because terms aren’t set.  The bonds will rank pari passu with the company’s existing
subordinated notes including euro-denominated portions of debt
due 2035 and securities maturing in 2037, the person said.    Barclays Capital , Citigroup Inc. and Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. are managing the sale, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net ;
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  