-- `Unsafe' Track Report in Olympic Luger's Death Brings Call for Inquiry
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2011-02-08T12:18:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/georgia-to-demand-explanation-over-media-report-on-olympic-luger-s-death.html
The Georgian National Olympic
Committee will demand an explanation from the organizers of the
Vancouver Games after a television report said the track where a
luge racer died “was not safe,” a spokesman said.  Nodar Kumaritashvili, 21, was killed in February 2010 when
he was catapulted into an unpadded metal support pole during a
training run for the Olympics. A Canadian television report
based on “leaked e-mails” questioned the safety of the track.  “We will closely study this television report, broadcast
in  Canada  via CBS, and will demand an explanation from both
sides, from the Vancouver Olympic organizing committee as well
as the luge federation,” spokesman Kakha Beridze said today in
Tbilisi.  Beridze said that the report allegedly revealed e-mails
from March 2009 that showed the track where the Georgian luger
died was “unmaintained” and “unsafe.” The luger’s father
will also demand more information, Beridze said.  Yesterday, Vancouver Games Chief Executive Officer John
Furlong told reporters that he hadn’t been concerned about the
safety of the track. The International Luge Federation, in a
note, had asked the designer of the Canadian track to make
changes to his plan for the facility for the Sochi 2014 Games to
make sure speeds were reduced, according to the Canadian Press
Association.  “Imbedded in this note (cryptic as it may be) is a warning
that the track is in their view too fast and someone could get
badly hurt,” Furlong wrote in a 2009 e-mail that was uncovered
by the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. “An athlete gets badly
injured or worse and I think the case could be made we were
warned and did nothing.”  The Georgian committee cannot ask for a new investigation,
but will ask the International Luge Federation about why the
information wasn’t included in a probe that concluded that
Kumaritashvili’s death was caused by his own error.  Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili also criticized the
Olympic officials who blamed the death of Kumaritashvili on
human error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  