-- German Industrial Output Unexpectedly Falls as Weather Hits Construction
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2011-02-08T11:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/german-industrial-output-unexpectedly-falls-as-weather-slows-construction.html
Industrial production in Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy, unexpectedly fell for a second month
in December as cold temperatures sparked a construction slump.  Output dropped 1.5 percent from November, when it slipped a
revised 0.6 percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today.
Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent gain, the median of 38
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey showed. In the year year,
production rose 10 percent when adjusted for work days.  “The harsh winter probably shut down large parts of the
German industry,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at
UniCredit Group in Munich. “However, that doesn’t take away
from the fact that once spring arrives the German growth
locomotive will shift up a gear.”    Germany ’s economy expanded a record 3.6 percent last year
as declining unemployment encouraged consumers to spend more and
companies increased investment to meet export demand. While the
coldest winter in 40 years curbed output at the end of the year,
recent surveys show the economy is likely to gather pace again
with business confidence at a record, consumer confidence
improving and manufacturing and services industries expanding.  The euro pared its gain against the dollar after the
release and was at $1.3627 at 12:05 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  Cold Weather  December’s drop was led by a 24 percent slump in
construction output, today’s report showed. Manufacturing output
declined 0.1 percent and the production of intermediate goods
fell 3.1 percent. Production of investment goods jumped 3.3
percent in the month.  The ministry revised the November output data from an
initially reported 0.7 percent decline.  Germany had the coldest December since 1969, with average
temperatures of minus 3.5 degrees Celsius, the German weather
service said on  its website .  Industrial production “has been adversely affected by the
weather,” the ministry said in the statement. At the same time,
“output in the manufacturing industries continues to point
upward.”  Booming exports to  Asia  and stronger household spending
propelled German business confidence to a record high of 110.3
in January, Munich-based Ifo institute said Jan. 21. Investors
also became more optimistic last month. In France, business
confidence rose more than economists forecast in January, the
Bank of  France  said today.    Bayerische Motoren Werke AG , the world’s largest maker of
luxury cars based in Munich, expects “significant” sales
increases in the first half of this year on demand in Asia,  Russia  and the U.S. for 5- and 6-Series models, Chief Financial
Officer Friedrich Eichiner said on Feb. 3.  Companies have relied on faster-growing markets to boost
sales as euro-region governments cut spending to push down
budget deficits. The European Central Bank forecasts growth in
the 17-nation area will slow to around 1.4 percent this year
from 1.7 percent in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  