-- Lehman, Glaxo, Chevron, Massey, Galleon in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2011-02-08T12:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/glaxo-chevron-nyse-euronext-massey-energy-in-court-news.html
The California Public Employees
Retirement System sued former  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc .
executives and underwriters alleging they hid Lehman’s exposure
to subprime loans when they sold the pension fund about $700
million in bonds.  Calpers claimed in a complaint filed in federal court in
San Francisco yesterday that the executives and about 34
investment banks made false statements in offering documents for
bonds issued from June 2007 to September 2008.  The case is Calpers v. Fuld, 11-562, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Verdicts/Settlements  Glaxo Said to Pay $250 Million to Resolve Avandia Suits    GlaxoSmithKline Plc  agreed to pay more than $250 million to
resolve about 5,500 claims related to its  Avandia  diabetes drug
and avoid the first trial over claims it kills users, two people
familiar with the accords said.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s biggest drugmaker, agreed to settle the
lawsuits claiming the drug causes heart attacks for an average
of at least $46,000 each, said the people, who declined to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.  The accords included a previously reported settlement of an
undisclosed amount for the family of James Burford, an Avandia
user who died in 2006. The Burford family’s case, filed in
federal court in Philadelphia, was set for trial last week.  “An average of $46,000 per case is a modest price to pay,
in the grand scheme of things,”  Gbola Amusa , an analyst at  UBS
AG  in  London , said in a telephone interview. “If Avandia
definitively had caused heart attacks, Glaxo would have been
forced to pay” as much as $1 million a case, he said.  The cases settled were filed by plaintiffs’ lawyers Joseph
Zonies and Thomas Cartmell. Glaxo was facing about 2,000 suits
alleging the drugmaker hid Avandia’s heart-attack and stroke
risks prior to the settlements, lawyers for former users and the
company said in court hearings. The company already agreed to
pay about $460 million to resolve allegations it didn’t properly
warn doctors and consumers about the medicine’s risks.  Mary Anne Rhyne, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Glaxo, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment on the settlements.  Zonies, of Denver, and Cartmell, of Kansas City, Missouri,
didn’t immediately return calls seeking comment.  The company said Sept. 23 it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after regulators said the treatment would be withdrawn
from the market in Europe and sales would be limited in the U.S.
because of studies linking the drug to increased risks of heart
attacks.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).
The Burford case is Deborah Burford v. SmithklineBeecham Corp.,
07-CV-05360, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  For more, click here.  Chevron to Pay Atlas Holders 10 Cents More a Share    Chevron Corp ., the second-largest U.S. oil company, will
pay holders of  Atlas Energy Inc . an additional 10 cents a share
to settle litigation when its $3.59 billion purchase of the
natural-gas producer is completed.  The settlement follows Atlas shareholder lawsuits that
alleged company directors breached fiduciary duties by agreeing
to an inadequate merger price and using an unfair process,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission yesterday. The defendants denied any violations of
their duties.  Reliance Industries Ltd., which has a joint venture with
Atlas, has said it should’ve been given a chance to top
Chevron’s Nov. 9 offer. The company, based in Mumbai, sent a
Jan. 10 letter to the board calling itself the “most natural
and obvious” partner to buy Atlas.  The additional 10 cents a share “doesn’t really move the
needle too much,” said Fadel Gheit, an analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co. in  New York  who has a “market perform” on Chevron and owns
shares of the company. “There will be no white knight. It’s a
done deal.”  Chevron’s cash-and-stock bid valued the company at $43.34 a
share, a 37 percent premium to the closing price a day before it
was announced. The additional 10 cents would add about $7.8
million to the overall deal value.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits    NYSE Euronext  Sued in Amsterdam by TOM Over Liffe Membership  NYSE Euronext should be forced to grant membership in the
exchange’s Liffe futures and options market to  The Order
Machine , the alternative securities-trading system, known as
TOM, said in a Dutch lawsuit.  NYSE Euronext has refused membership to TOM, which is owned
by  BinckBank NV , Optiver and government-controlled ABN Amro
Group NV, even though a unit of the company applied for access
to Liffe two years ago, BinckBank Chief Executive Officer Koen
Beentjes said.  “Euronext keeps asking us questions,” Beentjes said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “We’ve answered these every
time, and think we comply with all requirements, but we still
don’t have the membership two years along the way. So we went to
court.”  NYSE Euronext owns London-based Liffe, Europe’s second-
largest derivatives market. TOM, a Netherlands-based trading
firm, offers a way to compare prices of securities on different
exchanges. The firm  said it became a member last year of Eurex ,
Europe’s largest derivatives exchange.  TOM and NYSE Euronext met yesterday in summary proceedings
before the Amsterdam District Court, Yndra Poel, a spokeswoman
for the court, said.  “We are not against competition when it’s on a fair and
transparent basis,” said James Dunseath, a spokesman for NYSE
Euronext. “We have procedures in place for membership and there
are currently several significant questions outstanding about
the execution and provision of information relating to the
interests of the end-investor, and NYSE Euronext as an exchange,
that have yet to be answered.”‬  Massey Energy Stockholders Sue to Block Sale to Alpha    Massey Energy Co . stockholders sued in federal court in
Virginia to block the company’s sale to  Alpha Natural Resources
Inc . for $7.1 billion, alleging that the proposed acquisition
undervalues the Massey shares.  In two separate lawsuits filed last week in U.S. District
Court in Richmond, where Massey is based, stockholders said the
buyout offer is the result of a “flawed and unfair process”
and represents an “unfair price” of 1.025 shares of Alpha
common stock and  $10 in cash for each outstanding share of
Massey’s common stock.  “Instead of attempting to negotiate a transaction
reflecting the highest price reasonably available for the
company’s stockholders, defendants spent substantial effort
tailoring the proposed acquisition to meet their own specific
needs and those of Alpha,” said the stockholders, who are
seeking class-action, or group, status.  The bid values Massey at $69.33 a share, 21 percent more
than its price at the close of trading Jan. 28, the last trading
day before the deal was announced. The average premium for coal-
industry deals announced in 2010 was 26 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rick Nida, a spokesman for Alpha, declined to comment.
Roger Hendriksen, vice president of investor relations for
Massey, didn’t immediately return a telephone message seeking
comment.  The lawyer representing the stockholders in both suits,
Elizabeth Tripodi at Finkelstein Thompson in Washington, also
didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking comment.  The cases are Mostaed v. Crawford, 11-cv-00079, and Perkins
v. Crawford, 11-cv-00082, U.S. District Court, Eastern District
of Virginia (Richmond).  Stanford Receiver, Investors Sue PGA for $13 Million  PGA Tour Inc. , the organizing body for professional
golfers’ U.S. tournaments, was sued by indicted financier R.
Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver and a group of his
investors, seeking to recoup almost $13 million.  Ralph Janvey, the receiver, and the court-sanctioned
investors’ committee said in a complaint filed yesterday in
federal court in Dallas that the PGA Tour received tainted money
generated by an alleged $7 billion fraud scheme led by Stanford.  Stanford has repeatedly denied civil and criminal
allegations that he sold certificates of deposit through
Antigua-based Stanford International Bank Ltd. by misleading
speculators about the nature of the CDs and their regulatory
oversight.  “PGA did not provide reasonably equivalent value for the
transfers of CD proceeds to it and cannot establish that it is a
good faith transferee,” Janvey and the committee said in
yesterday’s filing.  James Cramer, a spokesman for the Ponte Vedra Beach,
Florida-based PGA Tour, declined to comment.  The case is Ralph Janvey v. PGA Tour Inc., 11-cv-00226,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09cv298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is U.S.
v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Texas (Houston).  Telenor Petitions Court for Injunction on VimpelCom Shares    Telenor ASA , the biggest Nordic phone company, asked a
London court to help it maintain its position in  VimpelCom Ltd .
if the Russian company’s planned merger with Wind Telecom SpA
goes forward.  Telenor asked the Commercial Court in London for an
injunction requiring VimpelCom to issue it shares alongside
those issued to Wind, the Norwegian company said in a statement.
The shares would be placed in escrow and only issued to Telenor
if it wins an arbitration action it’s pursuing.  VimpelCom shareholders, including Telenor, which  owns  39.58
percent of Russia’s second-largest mobile carrier, are entitled
under the  shareholder agreement  to buy more stock to maintain
their percentage stake if shares are issued to others. Telenor
started the arbitration process on Jan. 28 after learning that
VimpelCom planned to classify the Wind merger as a related party
transaction, circumventing this requirement for a so-called pre-
emptive share issue.  “Telenor believes this proposal is a fair and equitable
solution that will preserve the status quo while the arbitration
is ongoing and ensure that no party will be unfairly
disadvantaged if the Wind Telecom acquisition is completed as
presently proposed,” Telenor spokesman Dag Melgaard said in the
statement.  Elena Prokhorova, a spokeswoman for VimpelCom, said she
couldn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Mutualite Francaise Sues Servier Over Mediator Drug  Mutualite Francaise , a group of private health insurers,
sued Les Laboratoires Servier, claiming that the company hid the
risks associated with the Mediator diabetes drug.  The group, which represents 600 French insurers, filed a
complaint against Servier for alleged fraud in the “marketing
of Mediator, whose true pharmacological nature was revealed by
the Inspector General of social affairs’ report,” the Mutualite
Francaise said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday.  The report published last month by the  Inspection Generale
des Affaires Sociales , or IGAS, found Servier pressured
officials to keep Mediator on the market even after repeated
alerts on its risks. The treatment, sold in France from 1976
until 2009, may have caused between 500 and 2,000 deaths,
according to French regulators.  The action taken by the Mutualite Francaise is “based on
the IGAS report” and Servier’s comments weren’t taken into
account for that report, Servier spokeswoman Lucy Vincent said
in a telephone interview yesterday. It’s “based on assumptions
and not on a fair and just hearing of the situation which will
come in the Court of Justice.”  Servier, a closely held drugmaker based in Neuilly-sur-
Seine, outside of Paris, said in a Jan. 15 statement the company
was “surprised by the responsibilities the IGAS report appears
to put on Mediator, which don’t seem to correspond to reality.”  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Trials/Appeals  WikiLeaks’ Assange Faces Secret Swedish Rape Trial  WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange may be unfairly tried in
secret in Sweden if extradited from Britain to face questioning
over sexual-assault allegations, his lawyer told a U.K. judge.  Assange’s right to “open justice” will be breached if he
is subjected to a closed trial in Sweden -- typical for rape
cases in the country -- his lawyer, Geoffrey Robertson, told a
judge in London yesterday. He said there had been a “media
campaign” against Assange in Sweden.  “It is likely that he will be tried secretly in Sweden,
behind closed doors,” Robertson said. “You cannot have a fair
trial when the press and public are excluded from the court, and
the Swedish custom is to exclude them.”  The alleged sexual misconduct, which two Swedish women
claim took place in August, was revealed as WikiLeaks drew
condemnation for posting thousands of classified U.S. military
and diplomatic communications. Assange’s lawyers are fighting
the extradition and claim the case may be politically motivated.  WikiLeaks, which has two servers housed in a mountain
cavity in Stockholm, is an organization that publishes secret
government and corporate documents online. Prosecutors say the
rape case has nothing to do with the website’s activities.  Robertson also said the rape claim wouldn’t have qualified
as rape in other European countries. In court papers, Robertson
said Assange can only be extradited if the alleged acts are also
illegal in the U.K.  U.K. prosecutors, who are arguing on behalf of Sweden, told
the judge yesterday that Swedish prosecutor Marianne Ny, who
issued the arrest warrant for Assange, was within her authority,
rejecting one of Robertson’s defenses. The warrant prompted
Assange to turn himself in to London police in December.  District Judge Howard Riddle at Woolwich Crown Court may
give his decision as soon as today.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pre-trial  Primary Global’s James Fleishman Pleads Not Guilty  James Fleishman, a former Primary Global Research LLC sales
manager, denied federal charges that he helped investors obtain
inside information from consultants working for the expert-
networking firm.  “He pled not guilty,”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for the
U.S. Attorney in Manhattan, said in a telephone interview after
the court hearing yesterday. Ethan Balogh, an attorney for
Fleishman, didn’t respond to an e-mail and a phone message
seeking comment.  Fleishman, who was indicted last week for conspiracy to
commit securities fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, is
among eight people who worked for Mountain View, California-
based Primary Global to have been charged by prosecutors with
insider trading. Two have pleaded guilty and are cooperating
with prosecutors.  Primary Global connects investors with employees of public
companies who purportedly provide them with insight into
specific markets. Prosecutors have alleged that the company
insiders were paid to provide material nonpublic information to
the investors.  Fleishman, who faces related civil claims by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, has been free on bail since
his December arrest. The SEC said tips from Primary Global
insiders helped investors reap $5.9 million in illegal profits.  The case is U.S. v. Fleishman, 11-cr-32, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  McKinsey’s Kumar Seeks to Block Rajaratnam’s Document Request  Anil Kumar, a former partner at McKinsey & Co., asked a
judge to block a subpoena by Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj
Rajaratnam , who goes on trial this month on insider trading
charges.  Kumar, who pleaded guilty and will be a government witness,
told a judge that Rajaratnam should not be allowed to subpoena
his tax returns and brokerage account records. The Galleon co-
founder plans to use the documents to attack his credibility,
Kumar says.  Rajaratnam, who denies wrongdoing, goes on trial on Feb. 28
in Manhattan federal court for insider trading. His spokesman,  Jim McCarthy , declined to comment on Kumar’s request. Last week,
another possible government witness, Richard Choo-Beng Lee, also
sought to block a Rajaratnam subpoena.  U.S. District Judge  Richard Holwell  will resolve the
dispute.  Kumar said in his court filing that McKinsey can provide
many of the thousands of documents that Rajaratnam is seeking.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 09-cr-01184, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Russian Businessman Suing Kerimov May Seek Asylum in U.S.  A Russian businessman who is seeking $2 billion in damages
from billionaire Suleiman Kerimov may apply for political asylum
in the U.S., his attorney said.  Ashot Egiazaryan, a lawmaker who left Moscow for the U.S.
in mid-2009, faces prosecution in Russia for embezzlement after
being stripped of parliamentary immunity at the end of last
year. Egiazaryan denies the accusations and is “considering” a
bid for political asylum, his London-based lawyer, Drew Holiner,
said yesterday in a phone interview.  A Cypriot court in September barred Cyprus-registered
entities controlled by Kerimov from any transactions using
shares in mining company OAO Polyus Gold and fertilizer maker
OAO  Uralkali  until the dispute with Egiazaryan is resolved.
Egiazaryan claims Kerimov forced him in 2009 to relinquish a
25.5 percent stake in the landmark  Moskva Hotel  near Moscow’s
Red Square in collusion with then-Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov.  Egiazaryan filed a request for $2 billion in damages at the
London Court of International Arbitration on Sept. 13, according
to court documents in the Cyprus case.  “He was forced out of the hotel project through threats of
prosecution and violence,” Holiner said.  Kerimov’s office declined to comment on Egiazaryan’s
allegations. No one answered the phone at Luzkhov’s office at
the International University in Moscow, where he became dean of
the faculty of city management after being fired as mayor in
September.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  On the Docket  Deutsche Bank Faces First German Top Court Swap Case  A fight over an interest-rate swap sold by  Deutsche Bank AG 
has reached Germany’s top court which is set to issue its first
judgment on the matter, one that may influence similar cases
throughout Europe.  The Federal Court of Justice in Karlsruhe, Germany’s top
civil tribunal, will hear a claim today by  Ille Papier Service
GmbH  seeking 541,074 euros ($734,000) in damages from the bank.
The Altenstadt, Germany-based company says the bank didn’t
properly inform it about risks of an interest-rate swap.  “The crucial issue is that Deutsche Bank was the adviser
to its customer and, at the time, the seller of the swap,” said
Lars Kloehn, a law professor at Germany’s Marburg University,
adding the court may take the opportunity to address the broader
issue. In one role, the bank “must guard the customer’s
interests and in the other role its own interests. It will be
very exciting to see what the top court will make out of this.”  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, won a majority of
decisions on the swaps issue in German state appeals courts
while a minority held the lender violated its duties to
customers when selling the swaps and ruled, at least in part,
against the bank. The Federal Court of Justice can use the case
it hears now to give some guidance to the lower courts.  Today’s case is BGH, XI ZR 33/10.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 