-- GM Said to Plan Bonuses of More Than $3,000 for Hourly Unionized Workers
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2011-02-08T21:29:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/gm-said-to-plan-bonuses-of-more-than-3-000-for-unionized-hourly-workers.html
  General Motors Co . may pay its 53,000
unionized hourly U.S. staff record profit-sharing checks of more
than $3,000 per worker, two people familiar with the plan said.  The company hasn’t determined a specific amount and may
change its plans after completing accounting for 2010, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the plans haven’t been
publicly disclosed. GM’s previous highest payout was $1,775 in
1999, according to the Center for Automotive Research.  Sharing the U.S. auto industry’s prosperity will be a focus
of contract talks this year between the United Auto Workers and
GM,  Ford Motor Co . and Chrysler Group LLC. UAW President  Bob King  has said he aims to recover some of the $7,000 to $30,000
in concessions each worker gave up since 2005 to help U.S.
automakers survive the worst market in decades.  “This is probably more than workers were eligible for so
that they’ll feel good going into negotiations, which makes this
a pre-signing bonus,” said  Sean McAlinden , a former auto worker
who’s now chief economist for the Center for Automotive Research
in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . “Lump-sum payments like this could make
up 12 percent to 15 percent of compensation in the next
contract.”  GM rose 19 cents to $36.89 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The Detroit-based company’s shares
have climbed 12 percent from their $33 price in an initial
offering last year.  Ford, Chrysler  Ford, the only major U.S. automaker to avoid bankruptcy in
2009, said Jan. 28 it will pay its 40,600 hourly workers an
average of $5,000 in profit-sharing checks. Ford posted 2010 net
income of $6.56 billion, the most since 1999.  Chrysler, which lost $652 million in 2010, said last month
it would give its unionized workers bonuses averaging $750.  The U.S. automakers are awarding bigger bonuses than
profit-sharing formulas require to set the stage for talks on
contracts expiring in September, said  Harley Shaiken , a labor
professor at the University of California-Berkeley.  “With these profit-sharing checks, it’s the hope of all
three automakers that they are making a down payment on a more
incentive-based pay system,” Shaiken said. “All three
automakers have a desire to move in the direction of a heavier
reliance on profit sharing for overall compensation.”  King has said he is willing to consider a new formula for
profit sharing. His membership may want more than bonus checks
for the role they played in helping the industry survive, said
Gary Chaison, a professor of industrial relations at Clark
University in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  Reversing Concessions  “This won’t placate the union; there will be tremendous
pressure to reverse concessions,” Chaison said. “They’ll argue
that if times are good enough for profit sharing, then times are
good enough to return to the past.”  The UAW will seek to restore annual raises to base pay and
may ask to revive yearly cost-of-living increases, Chaison said.  Ford last year restored raises for its 20,000 salaried
U.S. workers, which triggered a grievance filing from the UAW
accusing the automaker of violating an “equality of sacrifice”
pledge. On Jan. 13,  Mark Fields , Ford’s Americas president, told
salaried workers there would be no raises this year.  “These negotiations will be tense,” Chaison said.  To contact the reporters on this story:  David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 Knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 