-- Elisabeth Goergl Defeats Vonn, Riesch to Clinch World Super-G Ski Title
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2011-02-08T12:23:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/goergl-surpasses-vonn-riesch-to-clinch-world-super-g-ski-title-in-germany.html
Austria’s Elisabeth Goergl upset
favorites  Lindsey Vonn  and Maria Riesch to win the super-G event
at the  FIS Alpine Ski World Championships .  Goergl won the race at the 2,180-meter (7,150 foot)
Kandahar slope in Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany, in 1 minute
23.82 seconds on the first day of competition. Goergl finished
0.05 second ahead of Julia Mancuso of the U.S., and 0.21 second
before Riesch of  Germany .  “I felt very well from the start,” Goergl said in a
televised interview after the race. “I had a good feeling, and
I knew I had made very few errors.”  Vonn, the defending super-G world champion, finished 0.84
second behind Goergl in seventh place.  The race had started amid controversy after Olympic
downhill champion Vonn called the Kandahar run “way too icy and
downright unsafe” on her  Facebook  page yesterday. Organizers
have been struggling with a lack of snow as well as freezing
weather at night and mild conditions during the day, making the
track hard and icy.  The super-G, or super giant slalom, combines the speed of
the downhill with the more frequent turns seen in the giant
slalom.  It was the first world championship title for Goergl, who
turns 30 next week. The Austrian’s best result at the
championships before today had been a bronze medal in the super-
combined event when the event was held in Val d’Isere,  France ,
in 2009.  Silver Queen  Mancuso took her second world championship silver medal. A
double silver medalist at the Vancouver  Winter Games , she was
also second in the super-combined at the 2007 world
championships in Are,  Sweden .  “I seem to be the queen of the silver, but I’ll take it,”
Mancuso said in a televised post-race interview. “It was
difficult and I was more nervous at the start.”  Vonn of the U.S. didn’t have a good preparation for today’s
race. The winner of three super-G world cup races this season
sustained a minor concussion after falling on her head in a
training crash in Austria last week, which led to her pulling
out of a  World Cup  slalom race in Arber-Zwiesel, Germany, four
days ago. Vonn will defend her downhill world title on Feb. 13.
The world championships end Feb. 20 with the men’s slalom.  “It was a tough battle,” Riesch, who grew up close to the
Kandahar slope, said in a post-race interview. “It was very
rough and bumpy, but if you stay committed and concentrated, you
can have a good result.”  Andrea Fischbacher  of  Austria , the Olympic super-G
champion, crashed as she struggled to make a turn. After losing
both skis, she slid down the glazed surface for dozens of meters
before safety nets ended her fall. Fischbacher was one of 10
racers who didn’t make the finish. Forty-nine women started.  The world championships continue tomorrow with the men’s
super-G.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  