-- Goldman Sachs Turns Bullish on Stocks in European Banks Bond Market Shuns
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   B r y a n   K e o g h   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2011-02-08T10:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/goldman-sachs-turns-bullish-on-stocks-in-european-banks-bond-market-shuns.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is telling
investors to buy European bank stocks for the first time in more
than 16 months. Bond buyers are taking the opposite view on
concern that policy makers will fail to staunch the debt crisis.  Banks in Spain, Italy and Greece have led the Bloomberg
Europe Banks and Financial Services Index 16 percent higher
since November. While shares of  Spain ’s  Banco Santander SA 
rallied 23 percent and  Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA  jumped 25 percent,
both lenders had to offer investors record premiums over
government debt when they sold covered bonds in the same period.  Equity investors are betting political leaders will bridge
their differences over the mandate of the European Financial
Stability Facility and stop the region’s debt crisis from
spreading. Bond buyers are skeptical that the talks will succeed
and concerned banks may be forced to accept losses on the more
than $2 trillion of loans and other assets they have in Greece,
Ireland, Italy,  Portugal  and Spain. Analysts say that while
equity investors may be right in the short term, they risk
ignoring a jump in funding costs that will erode future profit.  “The fundamental split here is about whether policy
measures in Spain and the rest of  Europe  are going to work in
halting the crisis -- or not,” said Huw van Steenis, a banking
analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London .  ‘Especially Attractive’  Goldman Sachs equity strategists, including Peter Oppenheimer and Sharon Bell, turned bullish on European lenders
last week, saying anxiety about the debt crisis will ease,
driving down banks’ funding costs. The analysts, citing a
“narrowing of sovereign spreads in the peripheral eurozone,”
said in a Feb. 3 note that bank stocks were among the cheapest
and the “trade-off between their growth prospects and earnings
in the next few years looks especially attractive.”  UBS AG, Switzerland’s biggest bank, today posted a 7
percent increase in fourth-quarter profit.  Deutsche Bank AG  last
week reiterated its target to double pretax profit at its
operating units to 10 billion euros ($13.6 billion) this year
from 2009 levels as the Frankfurt-based company posted a gain in
fourth-quarter earnings at its investment bank. Santander,
Spain’s biggest bank, reported fourth-quarter profit on Feb. 3
that beat analysts’ estimates. Chairman  Emilio Botin  told
reporters that “the worst of the crisis is behind us.”  Bank stocks are benefiting as investors ride the “positive
earnings story” for short-term gains, said  Suki Mann , senior
credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in London. “Funding
levels are still very high for the banks,” he said. “Credit’s
where the smart money is.”  ‘More Uncertainty’  That point was echoed by Alexander Plenk, a Munich-based
analyst at UniCredit.  “Equity investors are typically more focused on the short
term than credit investors, and the really horrible news seems
to have ended,” Plenk said. “Credit investors tend to take
more of a medium to long-term view, where there is much more
uncertainty.”  European banks have more at  stake  in Spain than in  Greece 
and Ireland combined, with total claims exceeding $716 billion
at the end of September, according to the  Bank for International
Settlements . Europe’s lenders hold more than $902 billion of
loans and other assets in Italy, including sovereign debt, and
$216 billion in Portugal, according to BIS data.  Financial firms in southern Europe are paying some of the
highest costs ever to borrow relative to government debt. An
increase in funding costs erodes bank profit by narrowing the
net interest margin, or the difference between what a bank earns
from lending and pays for funding.  Covered Bonds  Lenders in Spain and Italy are offering record amounts of
covered bonds because investors are wary of buying unsecured
debt that could be subject to so-called bail-ins being discussed
by regulators that would convert it into equity when triggers
are breached. Investors are forcing banks to pay more in
interest on the securities, which are typically backed by
mortgages or public-sector loans, are getting costlier for banks
to sell as supply outstrips demand.  Santander, which hasn’t sold a senior unsecured bond this
year, issued 1 billion euros of five-year covered bonds on Jan.
5 at a spread of 287 basis points, almost three times what it
paid in March last year. UniCredit, Italy’s largest lender, sold
1.25 billion euros of 12-year covered debt on Feb. 1 at a record
spread of 210 basis points. Four months ago, the Milan-based
bank sold seven-year covered notes at 154 basis points. A basis
point is one-hundredth of a percent.  Intesa, BBVA    Intesa Sanpaolo SpA , Italy’s second-biggest bank, based in
Turin, paid a record spread of 208 basis points to sell 10-year
covered bonds on Jan. 14, compared with a spread of 148 basis
points at a five-year debt sale less than three months earlier.  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , Spain’s No. 2 lender, sold
1.5 billion euros of three-year covered notes on Jan. 4 at a
record spread of 310 basis points.  U.S. banks by contrast are selling debt from three-year
floating-rate notes to 30-year bonds as the cost to protect the
securities from default declines amid signs the economy is
improving. Borrowing costs for U.S. lenders are near the lowest
in nine months relative to the debt of industrial companies.  No banks in Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece or Spain have
sold debt in dollars since September. German, Swiss and British
lenders, including Deutsche Bank and London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc , aren’t paying as much to borrow as southern European banks
and are finding overseas investors willing to buy their debt.    Credit Suisse Group AG , Switzerland’s second-biggest
lender, raised $2.18 billion this year in the U.S., including a
sale of three-year notes that paid a spread of 128 basis points
over Treasuries. HSBC, Europe’s biggest bank, sold 750 million
euros of four-year notes at a spread of 127 basis points on Jan.
24, two weeks after a $4 billion offering, Bloomberg data show.  ‘Pretty Dire’  Funding costs for Banco Santander, Intesa, UniCredit and
BBVA have declined from record highs this month, helped by a
wider rally in bank bonds. Spreads on senior euro-denominated
bank debt narrowed 32 basis points to 169 basis points last week
since reaching a six-month peak on Jan. 11, Barclays Capital’s
Euro Aggregate Banking Senior Index shows. BBVA raised 2 billion
euros in a five-year covered note sale on Feb. 2 at a spread of
242 basis points. That’s still more than three times as much as
the lender paid about a year ago to sell similar securities.  “Nothing material has changed over the past two or three
weeks, even though there has been improved sentiment in the
stock markets,” said John Anderson, who manages about 500
million pounds ($805 million) in European bonds as head of
credit at Gartmore Investment Management Ltd. in London. “The
macro situation is still pretty dire in countries like Spain,
and if they can’t grow, they can’t reduce their deficit.”  Capital Rules  European Union officials are trying to bolster confidence
in the 27-nation bloc’s financial industry by forcing banks to
hold more capital in reserve against future losses and to
undergo stress tests to show they can withstand a recession.  Group of 20 leaders in November endorsed rules drawn up by
the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  that will more than
triple the highest-quality capital, such as shareholders’
equity, that lenders must hold to cushion against losses.
European regulators, preparing a second round of stress tests in
the first half of this year, have pledged to toughen the exams.  The cost of protecting European senior financial debt from
default has surged 32 percent in the past four months. The
Markit iTraxx Financial Index of 25 banks and insurers increased
39 basis points to 162.5 basis points, which means it costs
162,500 euros annually to insure 10 million euros of the debt
for five years, according to data provider CMA.  Prices for credit-default swaps linked to the bonds of New
York investment banks, including Goldman Sachs and Morgan
Stanley, traded at levels that approached those of  junk bonds  in
March 2007, before the global financial crisis and as shares in
those firms were rallying.  Unlimited Cash  European banks are also charging more to lend to each
other. The rate at which European firms say they will lend euros
to other banks for three months, known as Euribor, reached a 19-
month high on Feb. 4 on concern that the  European Central Bank 
may withdraw emergency cash supplies to lenders in April.  The ECB said in December it would lend unlimited cash at
its weekly, monthly and three-month refinancing operations until
April to alleviate banks’ funding pressures and spur lending.
The ECB offers the unlimited cash at 1 percent, the same as its
benchmark, record-low interest rate. European banks are still
dependent on the emergency funding: 371 lenders sought 213.7
billion euros in seven-day funds on Feb. 2, the most this year,
according to the ECB.  ‘Comprehensive’ Package  EU leaders meeting in Brussels Feb. 4 reiterated a March 25
deadline to reach what German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  called a
“comprehensive” package to address the crisis. The measures
may include stiffer sanctions against budget deficits higher
than 3 percent of gross domestic product, lower  interest rates 
on loans and allowing the 440 billion-euro stability fund to buy
debt directly from member states.  Merkel, forced into underwriting a 110 billion-euro rescue
of Greece last year, has toned down her insistence that
government bondholders accept losses in future bailouts. In
November, as the EU and International Monetary Fund bailed out
Ireland, she called the euro’s condition “exceptionally
serious.” Two months later, she said she’d back “whatever is
needed to support the euro.”  That’s helped Europe’s benchmark Stoxx 50 index gain 9
percent this year. Credit-default swaps tied to Spanish  government bonds  fell about 36 percent since Jan. 10, CMA prices
show, indicating an improvement in the perception of  credit
quality . The swaps are at 230 basis points. Contracts on Italy
fell about 33 percent to 172 basis points, CMA prices show.  “Some of the frantic activity we have seen in the last few
weeks has died down,” said Julian Chillingworth, who helps
manage about 15 billion pounds of shares at Rathbone Brothers
Plc in London. “Whether or not the European debt crisis is over
is debatable. There’s still a long way to go.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Bryan Keogh in London at 
 bkeogh4@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Armstrong at   parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  