-- Gold May Get Boost From Collateral Use, MF Global Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2011-02-08T17:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/gold-may-get-boost-from-increased-collateral-use-mf-global-says.html
Gold may get a boost as  JPMorgan
Chase & Co . joins the two biggest U.S. futures markets in
allowing the metal to be used as collateral for trading,
according to MF Global Holdings Ltd.  JPMorgan said yesterday it will accept bullion as more
clients seek to use gold as an inflation hedge and to post as
collateral.  CME Group Inc . in October 2009 allowed bullion’s use
as collateral, and Intercontinental Exchange Inc. followed last
year. LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd., Europe’s largest clearinghouse,
said today it plans to permit use of gold and London Metal
Exchange industrial-metal warrants as collateral.  JPMorgan’s “announcement should be slightly positive for
gold prices, as it further grows the belief that gold is a
currency and has more uses than simply acting as a safe haven or
portfolio diversifier,” Tom Pawlicki, an analyst at MF Global
in  Chicago , said today in a report. “It would seem as though
collateralization certainly hasn’t hurt prices” since the CME
permitted such usage, he said.  Gold advanced 28 percent since the change by CME, the
world’s largest derivatives exchange, climbing to a record
$1,431.25 an ounce in December. Investors accumulated assets in
exchange-traded products worth about $89 billion, holding more
bullion than all but four central banks. The metal outperformed
global equities and Treasuries in 2010, climbing for a 10th
straight year, the longest winning streak since at least 1920.  Credit Default Swaps  New York-based JPMorgan said it will accept gold “to
satisfy  securities lending  and repo obligations” and it expects
to accept additional precious metals and commodities as
collateral later this year. Intercontinental, the second-biggest
U.S. futures market, in November allowed gold’s use as
collateral for energy and credit default swaps on its ICE Clear  Europe  clearinghouse. CME permits gold’s use as collateral on
all its markets.  “A major theme for the gold market is JPMorgan is
accepting gold as collateral,” said  Adam Klopfenstein , a senior
market strategist at Lind-Waldock in Chicago. “They feel gold
is safe enough to use as a store of value and that the gold
price is not going to fall out of bed. You’re going to get a
whole new wave of investors.”  LCH.Clearnet is going through the approval process and is
in contact with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority, David
Farrar, a director and head of commodities and metals,
commercial services, said by phone today. It plans to permit use
of gold and LME warrants this year.  ‘Easy to Move’  The company has yet to decide which LME metal warrants it
will accept, Farrar said. Copper, tin, aluminum, nickel, lead
and zinc are traded on the exchange.  “Gold, from our perspective, is seen to be liquid and easy
to move around and manage,” Farrar said. “Everyone’s looking
for secure ways of handling collateral, and gold is just another
asset that seems to be becoming more acceptable. I can see that
expanding.”  Aurelie Leonard, a spokeswoman at  Barclays Capital ,
declined to comment on the use of gold as collateral.  Immediate-delivery bullion reached a two-week high of
$1,367.10 by 5:05 p.m. in London. The metal rallied 30 percent
last year after governments spent trillions of dollars and kept  interest rates  low to bolster economies, while Europe’s
sovereign-debt crisis also boosted demand.  Investors in ETPs own 2,025.4 metric tons of gold, even
after cutting holdings by 4.2 percent since December, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The products accounted for 21
percent of investment demand last year, according to researcher
GFMS Ltd.  “It may also prompt owners of gold who use it as
collateral to become long-term holders of the metal, rather than
trading in and out of it,” MF’s Pawlicki said. “A greater
long-term commitment from them may keep the metal off the
physical market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 