-- Guinea Revising Its Mining Code, Mines Minister Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2011-02-08T16:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/guinea-revising-its-mining-code-to-ensure-citizens-benefit-minister-says.html
  Guinea , which held its first
democratic transfer of power last year, has started revising its
mining laws in an effort to ensure its people benefit from the
nation’s mineral wealth, Mines Minister Mohamed Lamine Fofana
said.  “The revision of the act has started,” he said at the
Mining Indaba conference in  Cape Town  today. “It is nearing the
stage of validation,” and this will be done in consultation
with labor unions and other interested parties, Fofana said.  Guinea holds as much as half of the world’s bauxite, used
to make aluminum, more than 4 billion metric tons of “high-
grade” iron ore and “significant” deposits of diamonds and
gold, according to the U.S. State Department. President  Alpha Conde , who came to power after winning an election in November,
has pledged to bring economic stability to the West African
country, where companies such as  Vale SA  and Rio Tinto Group
operate mines.  Guinea’s existing mining codes date back to 1995. Revisions
to the law will establish clear rules, ensure investments made
in the country are secure and help eliminate “red tape,” which
has proved an obstacle to developing new mines, Fofana said.  “Investors are welcome in Guinea,” he said. “They will
be in good hands.”  On Jan. 24, Conde said Guinea’s government plans to own at
least a third of new mining projects in the nation.  Any action taken by the government will be a “product of
consultation,” and comply with the country’s laws, Fofana said.
“Shares taken up by the government are only of consequence when
mines are profitable. In most instances, no profits are made or
these profits are really meager.”  Guinea is also home to bauxite deposits operated by
Russia’s United Co. Rusal, and a gold development run by  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  