-- Milan Prosecutors Request Berlusconi Trial for Power Abuse, Prostitution
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-02-09T11:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/milan-prosecutors-to-seek-berlusconi-trial-in-underage-prostitution-case.html
Prosecutors filed a formal request
for Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  to stand trial for
alleged abuse of power and paying a minor for sex.  Prosecutors in Milan released a statement to the press
saying they had requested a fast-track trial, which dispenses
with pre-trial hearings and is used when investigators believe
their evidence is particularly compelling. A Milan judge has
five days to rule on the request before a trial can begin.  The allegations “are disgusting” and “groundless,”
Berlusconi told a Rome press conference after the prosecutors’
announcement.  Berlusconi, 74, has regularly accused Italian prosecutors
of trying to destroy him since he entered politics in 1994. By his
count, he’s been targeted in 105 probes and trials, faced 2,500
court hearings and spent more than 300 million euros ($409
million) in consultant and legal fees. He’s been acquitted in
eight corruption cases and describes himself as the “most
persecuted man in all of history.” He’s won two elections while
facing criminal charges.  The Milan court is investigating Berlusconi’s relationship
with Karima El Mahroug, a Moroccan national and part-time
nightclub performer nicknamed Ruby Heart Stealer who attended at
least one party at his Milan mansion in February 2010 when she
was 17. The allegations of abuse of power stem from his role in
helping secure her release from police custody in Milan after
she was detained in May on unrelated theft charges.  Mubarak Connection  Berlusconi referred to El Mahroug as a relative of Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  when he phoned the police, Interior
Minister Roberto Maroni told parliament in November. She is not
related to Mubarak, and has denied having sexual relations with
the premier or being a prostitute. Berlusconi has also denied
any wrongdoing.  Ruby was released by Milan police into the custody of
Nicole Minetti, 25, a former showgirl and dental hygienist who
was elected a regional representative for Berlusconi’s People of
Liberty party in March 2010, months after meeting the premier.
Prosecutors allege that Minetti, also targeted in the probe,
helped secure young women for Berlusconi’s parties.  The scandal has revived calls by Berlusconi’s political
opponents for him to step down after his conservative government
survived a no-confidence motion in parliament on Dec. 14 by
three votes. The case also has sparked statements of concern
from Vatican officials and could threaten Catholic voter support
for his coalition. Women’s groups are planning national protests
against Berlusconi on Feb. 13.  ‘Master of Survival’  “Things are not looking too good for him right now,” said
Antonio Noto, director of Rome-based IPR Marketing, which
conducts a monthly confidence poll. “Still, he is a master of
survival and has been ducking investigations throughout his
political career.”  In an opinion poll prepared by Ipsos released last night on
the television program Ballaro, 61 percent of respondents said
that Berlusconi should resign, with 33 percent saying he should
remain in office. The same poll showed that Berlusconi’s
coalition maintained about a three percentage point lead over
the biggest opposition bloc, a similar margin to that of an IPR
poll released Feb. 2.  Berlusconi, who has said he has never paid for sex, has
said he didn’t know that El Mahroug was a minor and denied
pressuring police to release her. He said he had only phoned to
help a young woman in a “tragic situation.”  Berlusconi’s Parties  In a television interview last month with Sky TG24, Ruby
said she told Berlusconi she was 24 and that he gave her 7,000
euros to help her through a tough economic situation.
Prosecutors said last month they had evidence Berlusconi paid a
“relevant” number of women to engage in sexual activities at
his parties.  The prosecutors first announced that Berlusconi was a
target of the probe on Jan. 14, a day after  Italy ’s
Constitutional Court overturned parts of a law granting the
premier virtual immunity from prosecution while in office. The
ruling means that he faces the resumption of other pending
corruption trials. Prosecutors yesterday received approval to
restart on March 11 a bribery trial against the premier, Ansa
newswire said. In that case Berlusconi is accused of paying a
U.K. lawyer $600,000 to lie on his behalf in another trial.  Under Italian law, the prostitution charge would carry a
maximum sentence of three years and Berlusconi could face a
penalty of 12 years if convicted of abuse of power. To secure a
conviction on the underage prostitution charge, prosecutors
don’t need to prove the two engaged in full intercourse. If
convicted, Berlusconi would be able request two appeals in a
process that can typically drag on for years before a binding
verdict is delivered.  Resisting Prosecutors  Berlusconi has so far failed to cooperate with the
investigation and refused to be questioned by prosecutors,
Piersilvio Cipolotti, one of his defense lawyers, said by phone
on Jan. 21. The lower house of parliament on Feb. 3 voted to
deny a request by prosecutors to search the Milan office of
Giuseppe Spinelli, one of Berlusconi’s accountants. Spinelli is
suspected of making payments on behalf of the premier to women
who attended parties at his residences.  In their search request, prosecutors said that Berlusconi
had provided some young women who frequented his Milan mansion
with cash and gifts including use of apartments in the city.
Friends of the premier who are also targeted in the probe
“identified, selected and accompanied a relevant number of
young women, who prostituted themselves with Silvio Berlusconi
in his residence and were paid money by him,” even though the
funds were distributed by intermediaries, Chief Milan Prosecutor
Edmondo Bruti Liberti wrote in the  document .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 