-- Ireland’s Lenihan Wants Senior Bank Debt Discounts
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2011-02-08T14:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ireland-s-lenihan-wants-senior-bank-debt-discounts-ecb-opposed.html
Irish Finance Minister  Brian Lenihan 
said the government is pressing for a “substantial discount”
on 20 billion euros ($27.2 billion) of unsecured senior bank
bonds, a push resisted by the European Central Bank.  “We put the 20 billion euros on the table in the EU-IMF
negotiations, and the ECB ruled it out,” Lenihan said in a
debate on RTE television late last night. “But it’s still there
in debate, it’s still there in discussions. We’re pressing for
substantial discounts and burden sharing.”  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said yesterday that
Ireland needs to press ahead with its fiscal austerity measures
and imposing “haircuts” on investors isn’t part of the plan.
Lenihan told reporters today he “couldn’t see the  European
Central Bank  contemplating” discounts on senior bondholders.  “But again in the context of the winding up of an
institution or the gradual winding down of an institution these
options can be put on the table,” Lenihan said at a press
conference in Dublin. “It is an issue and we have an ongoing
dialogue with the bank and with the European authorities.”  The government raised the issue of discounts on some senior
debt with the European Union during negotiations for its 85
billion-euro rescue package in November only to be rebuffed by
the ECB, according to Lenihan. Ireland has already injected
about 46 billion euros into its banks.  Seeking Contributions  “It’s getting a contribution from those people,” said
Lenihan yesterday. “We’ve already got a contribution out of the
subordinated bondholders.”  Fine Gael, which is favored to lead Ireland’s next
government following elections on Feb. 25 according to opinion
polls, has said it may seek European approval to impose losses
on senior bank bondholders if it takes power.  “There is not really a significant shift in the minister’s
policy,” said Fergal O’Leary, a director at Dublin-based Glas
Securities. “We interpret his comments as being supportive of
voluntary buybacks and exchanges but not of coercive action that
would force losses on senior bondholders.”  Ireland needs to share its banking debt with the European
Union as the country can’t continue to support it alone, said  Goodbody Stockbrokers  today. The government should discuss
restructuring 21.5 billion euros in unsecured senior bonds at a
European level, Goodbody economists Dermot O’Leary and Juliet Tennent wrote in a note to clients.  A new government may opt for discounts of as much as 90
percent on some junior debt and impose discounts on some senior
bank bondholders,  Hank Calenti , a London-based credit analyst at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in a Jan. 28 note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  