-- IRS Announces Amnesty to Declare Offshore Accounts
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2011-02-08T20:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/irs-announces-a-new-partial-amnesty-to-disclose-hidden-offshore-accounts.html
U.S. taxpayers with hidden offshore
accounts will have a second chance to disclose them to the
government without being criminally prosecuted, the  Internal
Revenue Service  said.  The new voluntary disclosure program will require those
who come forward to pay up to 25 percent of the highest annual
amount in the account from 2003 through 2010, plus back taxes,
interest and other tax penalties for those years. The program
expires Aug. 31.  “It gives people a chance to come in before we find
them,” IRS Commissioner Douglas Shulman said today from  Washington  on a conference call with reporters. He said the IRS
is continuing to investigate “a number of” overseas banks,
and that some of the inquiries are at “quite advanced”
stages.  The program is part of the U.S. government’s efforts to
crack down on offshore accounts and  tax evasion . A similar
program that ended in October 2009 attracted about 15,000
taxpayers who avoided prosecution by paying taxes on six years
of undeclared income, plus a 20 percent penalty.  The first 2,000 cases that were closed have generated
almost $400 million in revenue, Shulman said. Failure to
disclose accounts and filing false tax returns are crimes that
carry prison terms and fines of up to $500,000, according to
the IRS.  Less-Generous Terms  Another 3,000 taxpayers declared their accounts after the
initial program ended. They will be eligible for the new
program, which has less-generous terms, said Shulman, who said
Dec. 9 that the IRS was considering a second disclosure period.  “People who waited out the 2009 initiative will not be
rewarded for waiting,” Shulman said.  Barbara Kaplan, an attorney at Greenberg Traurig LLP in  New York , said she doesn’t expect as large a response from
taxpayers this time -- unless the IRS announces investigations
involving specific banks.  “Until the pressure is really on and it’s public, people
who didn’t opt in before are not going to opt in now,” she
said.  Growing Risk  The IRS urged taxpayers to disclose their accounts before
new reporting requirements for overseas banks and changes to
tax treaties give the government more information it can use to
refer criminal cases to the  Department of Justice . The bank-
disclosure requirements passed by Congress go into effect in
2013.  Shulman said IRS investigators have been tracking the
migration of assets from  Europe  into  Asia .  “As we continue to amass more information and pursue more
people internationally, the risk to individuals hiding assets
offshore is clearly increasing,” Shulman said. “We wanted to
give people a chance while we have other banks under our
sights.”  Scott Michel, an attorney at Caplin & Drysdale in
Washington, said banks in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore  will be a
major focus for the IRS. The combination of stricter
enforcement and the new bank-disclosure rules will make it
harder for U.S. citizens to have undisclosed accounts in
overseas banks.  Straightening Out ‘Mess’  Edward M. Robbins Jr., an attorney at Hochman, Salkin
Rettig, Toscher & Perez, P.C., in  Beverly Hills ,  California ,
said clients often tell him they’re wary of coming forward
because many of their friends with offshore bank accounts
aren’t.  “You need to get this mess straightened out if you’re
smart, sooner rather than later,” he said.  Under the new program and the previous one, some taxpayers
can qualify for reduced penalties as low as 5 percent. For the
new program, that category includes people who inherited
accounts that they haven’t actively managed.  Unlike the 2009 program, the new program includes a
separate penalty category for people who never had more than
$75,000 in offshore accounts. They will be eligible for a 12.5
percent penalty. Taxpayers who participated in the 2009 program
with account levels under that threshold can qualify for the
reduced penalty, Shulman said.  Taxpayers already being audited can’t participate in the
program, nor can those who disclosed accounts in the 2009
program. Those who have made “quiet” disclosures by amending
previously filed tax returns can apply.  Kaplan and Michel both said they expected that many
taxpayers will have difficulty getting all their paperwork in
order by the Aug. 31 deadline. Shulman said taxpayers shouldn’t
expect leniency with that deadline.  The IRS started its disclosure programs amid efforts to
crack down on offshore tax evasion fostered by  UBS AG ,  Switzerland ’s largest bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  