-- Italy's Renewable Energy Incentives Need Overhaul, Enel's Conti Says
-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-02-08T12:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/italy-s-renewable-energy-incentives-need-overhaul-conti-says.html
Italy should reform government
incentives for renewable energy because the current system is
too costly,  Enel SpA  Chief Executive Officer Fulvio Conti said.  A proposed government decree to use auctions to award
permits for renewable plants bigger than 5 megawatts, goes in
the right direction, Conti said at a conference in Milan today.
He said the current system has produced requests that exceed
demand.  The Italian government is drafting legislation regulating
clean-energy incentives.  Spain  recently reduced subsidies paid
to solar-thermal  power plants  and some wind farms to limit the
cost of electricity for consumers.  Government incentives may cost Italy as much as 5.7 billion
euros ($7.8 billion) this year, daily  Corriere della Sera  said
today, citing a report by the country’s energy regulator,
Alessandro Ortis. Italy’s incentives are among the highest in
the world, Corriere said.  The new rules will eliminate the current system of green
certificates, replacing it with feed-in tariffs for small
renewable-energy producers and auctions for larger producers,
Industry Ministry Undersecretary Stefano Saglia said at the
Milan conference.  He said in December that Italy wasn’t
planning any “dramatic” cuts in clean-energy incentives,
preferring a gradual reduction that will help consumers without
harming businesses.  Conti said introducing auctions would increase competition
and lower energy costs for customers.  “We are happy with the work undertaken by the Parliament
and government,” Conti said today. “We hope the reform of the
green certificates will herald a long period of regulatory
stability.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy@bloomberg.net . 