-- Italy Says Hackers Copied Password, Stole Carbon Permits
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o   a n d   L a r s   P a u l s s o n
-- 2011-02-08T17:42:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/italy-says-hackers-copied-carbon-account-password-stole-267-991-permits.html
  Italy  said online hackers stole
267,991 of its carbon allowances after copying a password,
adding to a series of security breaches that have shaken the
world’s largest emission market.  Italy locked suspect accounts in the country’s carbon
registry on Dec. 2 after locating 99,797 stolen allowances,
a spokesman at the country’s  Environment Ministry  said today by
e-mail. Stolen allowances were transferred to accounts in
Liechtenstein and the U.K., and Italy is waiting for local
authorities to finish an investigation, he said.  Italy is the fifth European country to report missing
emission allowances in the last three months. While  Austria , the  Czech Republic  and  Greece  said they managed to locate about 2
million missing permits after hacking attacks last month, Italy
and  Romania  are still hunting for some of the permits they lost
in 2010. Legal questions about how to return stolen allowances
and unresolved thefts are keeping carbon traders at bay.  “It’s a trust problem, and that affects everybody,” said
Hans-Bernd Menzel, chief executive officer of the  European
Energy Exchange , in an interview today at the E-world energy
fair in Essen,  Germany . Spot trading of carbon permits on the
Leipzig, Germany-based exchanged has yet to resume after the EU
suspended 30 national emission registries in Europe, he said.  The BlueNext SA exchange in Paris and registries in Germany
and four other countries reopened on Feb. 4. BlueNext handled
5,000 tons as of 2:23 p.m. today, compared with an average of
134,000 tons in the 20 days before the halt started on Jan. 19,
according to exchange data.  Still Frozen  Prompt trading on the ICE Futures Europe, the London-based
energy exchange and the biggest in  Europe , is still frozen as
officials try to weed out allegedly stolen permits. David Peniket, president and chief operating officer at ICE, said last
week the London-based exchange will give at least 36 hours
notice before it resumes the next-day contract.  The Green Exchange in  London  also is waiting to resume spot
trading on emission rights.  It will be “at least three months” before spot trading
volumes on European exchanges reach levels seen before the
closure of national registries, Menzel said.  The European carbon futures market wasn’t halted by the
crisis. EU allowances for December rose 0.5 percent to 14.71
euros as of 5:30 p.m. on ICE. They are up 2.8 percent from the
start of the year.  Missing From Romania  Italy said it is cooperating with EU authorities to reopen
its carbon registry. It gave no indication when that resumption
might take place.  About 1 million emission permits are still missing from the
account of the Romanian unit of Holcim Ltd., a Swiss cement
maker. Romanian prosecutors asked the U.K., Italy,  Belgium ,  Israel  and Liechtenstein to help investigate the theft, the
Bucharest-based organized crime and terrorism unit of the state
prosecutor’s office said Jan. 31.  The EU has said the recovery of any allowances transferred
illegally has not been harmonized in the 27-nation bloc and is a
matter for national law and local enforcement authorities.  Last month’s attacks on the European carbon market, valued
at 80 billion euros last year according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance, followed “carousel fraud” involving value-added tax
collection and password “phishing” last year.  While national registries are now upgrading their security
systems, the incidents were “very bad for the reputation and
the credibility” of the six-year old European cap-and-trade,
Yvon Slingenberg, head of the emissions-trading unit at the
European Commission, told a seminar in Brussels on Jan. 25.  The EU designed its emissions system in 2005 to be its main
tool for reducing the  greenhouse gases  and a model for a global
carbon market.  The program prices carbon by setting limits on the amount
of emissions polluters can produce. Those producing more than
their allocation of allowances must buy permits to offset their
emissions, allowing those that emit less to sell their balance
in the market, or pay a fine of 100 euros for every ton of
excess emissions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  