-- Italy Seeks to Thwart German Efforts to Impose EU Debt-Reduction Targets
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2011-02-08T13:24:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/italy-seeks-to-thwart-german-efforts-to-impose-eu-debt-reduction-targets.html
  Italy  is seeking to block rules to
penalize high-debt countries that miss numerical reduction
targets, countering a German-led bid for tougher measures to
prevent future debt shocks.  Italy is spearheading opposition to a proposal to force
countries with debt above the European Union ceiling of 60
percent of gross domestic product to make annual cuts equal to
1/20th of the excess, according to draft legislation to be
considered by euro-area finance ministers next week.  Germany is tying support for an upgraded 750 billion-euro
($1 trillion) safety net for debt-hit states to a toughening of
fiscal rules, which have gone unenforced since the euro’s birth
in 1999.  Germany  and  France  last week called for a special
summit in March to hammer out a “comprehensive” solution to
the sovereign debt woes that threaten the euro.  “What kind of signal would it send that you’re trying to
fight the debt crisis, and then you give a clear sign that you
don’t take debt reduction seriously,” said  Carsten Brzeski , an
economist at ING Group NV in Brussels. “If you don’t want to
make yourself ridiculous to the outside world, you need to come
up with a numerical target.”  Markets have been buoyed by European pledges to clean up
the fiscal mess. The extra yield on 10-year Italian bonds over
German bunds has slid to 146 basis points from a euro-era high
of 212 basis points on Nov. 30, two days after European
governments bailed out Ireland.  While debate rages over the details, all 17 euro
governments have backed in principle beefing up sanctions on
high-deficit states and closing a loophole by extending them to
countries with excessive debt.  ‘Significant Sum’  Debt penalties would cost Italy “a significant sum,” EU
Economic and Monetary Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told Sky Tg24 after
proposing them on Sept. 29.  Italy is leading the push for escape clauses built into the
legislation, including a broadly sketched requirement to take
“other relevant factors” into account when considering
sanctions for debt overruns, according to the draft legislation
prepared by national representatives in Brussels.  The key issue for Italy is private debt. When household and
corporate debt are added to the equation, Italy’s aggregate debt
was 240.8 percent of GDP in 2009, close to France’s 232.9
percent and below the Netherlands’ 271.7 percent, the Italian
Finance Ministry said in a  September estimate .  “It’s important to assess all the relevant factors which
make the situation of a country, not just public deficit and
debt,” Italian Finance Minister Giulio Tremonti said after the
last European finance meeting on Jan. 18. A ministry spokeswoman
declined to comment today.  Debt Load  Italy had  Europe ’s highest government debt until 2007, when
it was overtaken by  Greece . Italian debt equaled 118.9 percent
of GDP last year, according to  European Commission  estimates.
The Italian debt load remains Europe’s largest in nominal terms,
at 1.8 trillion euros.  Silvio Berlusconi’s government is threatening to veto a
clause at the heart of the new rules that, for the first time,
sets quantitative targets for annual debt reduction.  “Italy has a reservation on the numerical benchmark,”
reads a footnote to draft.  Italy’s objections carry weight because the debt standard
is in part of the six-law package that requires a unanimous vote
by European governments.  “It’s normal that Italy is worried about that,” Diogo Feio of  Portugal , in charge of the  European Parliament ’s non-
binding opinion on the debt law, said in a telephone interview.
He said he will propose compromise language next week.  Reduction Targets  Italy would have missed the proposed debt-reduction target
had it been in effect in the euro’s early days. Italy cut its
debt by an average 1.5 percentage points a year between 1995 and
2007, half what the target would have been.  By contrast, Belgium, now Europe’s third-most-indebted
state, pared its debt by an average 3.9 percentage points over
the period, more than its implied target of 3.5 points.  Belgium 
backs the stiffening of the rules.  “It will be important to have some quantitative rule in
place, but I don’t think any of those governance issues are
going to be decisive in terms of the current crisis,” said
Alessandro Leipold, a former International Monetary Fund
official.  Other parts of the package, such as the sanctions procedure
and new surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances, are subject to
majority vote and the parliament’s assent. European finance
ministers will discuss the legislation Feb. 14-15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  