-- Live Nation `On Prowl' for Deals With Malone's Liberty Media, Azoff Says
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   R o n a l d   G r o v e r
-- 2011-02-08T21:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/live-nation-on-prowl-for-deals-with-malone-s-liberty-media-azoff-says.html
Concert promoter  Live Nation
Entertainment Inc . is looking at possible acquisitions with  John Malone ’s Liberty Media Corp., its largest shareholder, and is
considering ways the companies can work together.  “We’re on the prowl together,” Live Nation Chairman
Irving Azoff said in an interview yesterday at the company’s  Beverly Hills ,  California , offices. Liberty Media Chief
Executive Officer Greg Maffei participated by phone.  The ties are deepening as Liberty Media increases its stake
in Live Nation, the world’s biggest concert promoter and ticket-
seller. Live Nation is “looking through Liberty’s whole
portfolio” for opportunities to work together, said Azoff, who
pointed to home-shopping channel QVC,  Sirius XM Radio Inc . and
premium cable channel Starz as areas of interest.  Liberty Media’s investment “gives us stability in a very
volatile business,” Azoff said.  Liberty Media agreed yesterday to buy 5.5 million shares of
Live Nation for $57.7 million, which will bring its stake to 20
percent. Maffei was named to Live Nation’s board and Azoff was
named chairman. Malone, who controls Englewood, Colorado-based
Liberty, stepped down as Live Nation’s interim chairman.  There are no immediate plans for Liberty Media to increase
its holding in Live Nation beyond 20 percent, Maffei said. He
said Liberty, which a year ago proposed buying a 35 percent
stake, may reconsider in the future.  “We like the company,” Maffei said. “We continue to
think it’s a good investment.  Diller’s Departure  The increased ties with Liberty Media also coincide with  Barry Diller ’s exit from the company. Diller, who became
chairman of Live Nation after its merger with his Ticketmaster
Entertainment in January 2010, stepped down as chairman in
October and sold his shares. He left the board in January.  Live Nation bought ticket sellers in Spain and  France  last
year and is looking for more acquisitions outside the U.S.,
Azoff said.  The company is also looking at buying more management
operations and is considering investing in Web-ticketing
startups, he said. Azoff ruled out buying EMI Group Ltd. or  Warner Music Group Corp ., two  record companies  that are for
sale.  “Greg and I have been besieged by every bidder out there
who’s interested in EMI and Warner,” said Azoff, who said Live
Nation isn’t interested in owning a record company. “The
catalog of EMI and Warner is the best that ever existed. It’s
not to be.”  MSG, Forum  Live Nation is in partnership talks with  Madison Square
Garden Inc ., Azoff said. MSG, the New York-based owner of
namesake arena and the Knicks basketball team, acquired an
option to purchase The Forum, the former home of the  Los Angeles
Lakers  in Inglewood, California.  “We are interested in the remodel of the Forum,” said
Azoff, “as both a user and in a management capacity.”  Live Nation added 14 cents to $10.94 at 4:15 p.m in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading and has lost 4.2 percent
this year.  The company is still suffering the effect of the 2008
recession on the concert industry, CEO Michael Rapino said in a
November conference call. Ticket discounts and other promotions
were offered to fill concerts last year, he said.  The company, which will announce fourth-quarter results on
Feb. 28, is expected to lose $18.6 million on sales of $1.12
billion, the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Ticketmaster business is facing new competition. Rival
concert promoter Anschutz Entertainment Group this month formed
a ticketing venture, Outbox Enterprises LLC, with former
Ticketmaster CEO Frederic Rosen as co-CEO.  Live Nation is working with concert promoters and venues to
offer variable pricing, list a single face amount inclusive of
fees, and lower the industry-wide cost of tickets to revive
demand, Azoff said in the interview.  “The business is going to change a lot in the next two
years,” Azoff said. “Especially when it comes to pricing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Ronald Grover in Los Angeles at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  