-- Ivory Coast Cocoa Farmers Fail to Find Buyers After Export Ban
-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x
-- 2011-02-08T08:43:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ivory-coast-cocoa-farmers-fail-to-find-buyers-after-ouattara-s-export-ban.html
Cocoa growers in  Ivory Coast , the
world’s biggest producer of the beans, are struggling to find
buyers because of a lack of financing and curbs on exports,
eight farmers said.    Alassane Ouattara , the internationally recognized winner of
the Nov. 28 presidential election, ordered all cocoa exporters to
halt shipment from Jan. 24 for a month to cut off funds to
incumbent President  Laurent Gbagbo . Ivory Coast banks cut the
daily limit for cash withdrawals after Gbagbo seized the
national offices of the regional central bank on Jan. 25.  While cocoa prices are 13 percent higher than they were
before the elections, they have declined 8.6 percent since Jan.
24 in London on speculation there are enough stockpiled beans
outside the country to meet demand. The Ivory Coast harvests two
crops a year, the main one starting in October and a smaller one
that usually begins in April.  “We would have to start coming into the mid-crop in April,
May before we may see supply constraints,” said  Kona Haque , an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London.  Global cocoa production will exceed demand by 44,000 metric
tons in the season that started Oct. 1, after a shortage of
50,000 tons a year earlier, according to Macquarie. Cocoa was
the only food commodity in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of
24 raw materials to decline last year, falling by 7.2 percent.  Cocoa for delivery in March closed at 2,109 pounds ($3,396)
a ton on NYSE Liffe in London yesterday. Prices were 4.4 percent
lower than a year earlier.  Spanish Buyer  “Cocoa out of the Ivory Coast will reach the consumer one
way or the other,” said Javier Hijalva, chief purchasing
officer at Spanish cocoa buyer Natra SA in Valencia,  Spain .
“The harvest in the whole of  Africa  is very good, not only in
the Ivory Coast and Ghana.”  Gbagbo, who was declared the winner by the country’s
Constitutional Council, refuses to recognize Ouattara as the
winner of the vote. Ouattara is being protected by United
Nations troops at the Golf Hotel in Abidjan. The UN Security
Council authorized 2,000 more peacekeepers to the West African
nation on Jan. 19.  The disputed election triggered violence that has seen at
least 270 people killed, according to the UN. Most food costs
have climbed around the world, leading to record prices in
January, according to the UN, after droughts and floods from  Australia  to  Russia  ruined crops.  Empty Pockets  “Small buyers are complaining they don’t have much cash
because they have to pay out of their own pockets,” said Koffi
Kanga, secretary-general of a farmer cooperative in Gabiadji
that produces about 700 tons of cocoa a year. “One of the big
exporters only buys high-quality beans and says we have to wait
three weeks before we can get paid.”  Moussa Zoungrana, head of a group of cooperatives in the
western town of Duekoue, said he tried to withdraw money from
three different agencies, “and they all said they didn’t have
access to the accounts.”  Ivory Coast’s cocoa production represents a third of global
supply, and is forecast to expand 1.9 percent this year,
according to Macquarie. In neighboring  Ghana , this year’s crop
may be 14 percent larger, according to Macquarie.  “There is no cash to buy the beans,” said Bile Bile, the
head of a union of regional farmers’ cooperatives in the eastern
town of Abengourou that produce about 1,000 tons of cocoa a
year. “All our cocoa goes straight to Ghana,” he said. Ghana
is the world’s second-largest cocoa producer.  Theodore Konan, a cocoa farmer near  San Pedro , agreed that
buyers say they have no cash. “We don’t understand why we are
being punished this way,” he said.  European Union sanctions against the Ivory Coast amount to
a “de facto export ban” on  cocoa beans  and cocoa products from
the country, the European Cocoa Association and the Federation
of Cocoa Commerce Ltd. said in a statement on Feb. 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pauline Bax in Abidjan via  London  at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  