-- Lizal Named as New Czech Policy Maker as Interest-Rate Debate Intensifies
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2011-02-08T13:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/lizal-named-as-new-czech-policy-maker-as-interest-rate-debate-intensifies.html
Czech President Vaclav Klaus named
economist Lubomir Lizal as a new member of the central bank’s
rate-setting board as policy makers heighten their debate on
when to start raising borrowing costs.  Lizal, an associate professor at the Center for Economic
Research and Graduate Education, Charles University, or CERGE
UK, will replace  Robert Holman , whose term expires Feb. 13.
Klaus, who has the sole power to name policy makers, also
reappointed Pavel Rezabek for a second and final six-year term
on the board at a ceremony at the Prague Castle today.  Lizal, 41, joins the board as debate on when to start
raising interest rates from a record low intensifies. The Ceska
Narodni Banka left the two-week repurchase rate at 0.75 percent
on Feb. 3 after three of the seven board members voted for a
quarter-point increase. The bank is weighing a recovery from a
recession in two decades and accelerating inflation.  “From the historical point of view, the central bank has
conducted good policy, which is visible in the fact that the
Czech economy is doing relatively well,” Lizal told reporters
after the ceremony. He refused to comment on current monetary-
policy settings.  The bank has kept rates stable since May after cutting them
by 3 percentage points in less than two years as the global
crisis pushed the country into the worst recession since the end
of communism in 1989. Gross domestic product rose 2.8 percent in
the three months through September, the most in nine quarters.  Transition Economics  The inflation rate advanced to 2.3 percent in December, the
highest since March 2009 and exceeded the central bank’s target
of 2 percent, driven by higher costs of food and gas.  Lizal, a member of the government’s advisory council,
specialized in transition economics, applied microeconomics,
econometrics, industrial organization and international trade
during his doctoral studies in economics, according to his
 biography  posted on the CERGE’s website.  He wrote or co-wrote research papers analyzing the relation
of environmental issues and corporate performance. In 2001,
Lizal helped write a paper with central bank Governor Miroslav Singer and the chairman of CERGE’s Executive Committee, Jan Svejnar, on enterprise breakups and performance during the
transition from planned to market economy.  ‘Academic Economist’  Lizal “is well known locally as an academic economist,”
said David Marek, chief economist at Patria Finance, a Prague-
based unit of KBC Securities Group. “Unfortunately, we know
nothing about his attitude to the current monetary policy
settings and thus we aren’t able to judge whether he will join a
camp of doves or hawks.”  Rezabek, who has spoken against a rush to adopt the euro,
said on Dec. 1 the benchmark rate was “extremely” low, while
voting to keep borrowing costs stable on Dec. 22. The bank on
Feb. 11 will publish the individual votes of the board members
from the Feb. 3 policy meeting. The next monetary-policy meeting
is scheduled for March 24.  Lizal’s replacement of Holman, who had expected  interest
rates  to start rising earlier than the end of the year assumed
in the central bank’s forecast, “makes the voting at the next
monetary-policy meeting even more uncertain,” Nordea Bank AB
analysts led by chief currency strategist Elisabeth Andreew,
wrote in a research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  