-- Japan’s Current-Account Surplus Widens as Export Grow
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-02-08T02:56:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/japan-s-current-account-surplus-widens-more-than-expected-as-exports-grow.html
Japan’s current account surplus
widened in December as the global recovery boosted demand,
underpinning the wealth that supports the nation’s debt burden.  The gap expanded 30.5 percent from a year earlier to 1.195
trillion yen ($14.5 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in Tokyo
today. The median estimate of 25 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News was for a surplus of 1.13 trillion yen.  Increased demand for exports is supporting an economy
analysts expect to rebound this quarter after probably shrinking
in the final three months of 2010. The surplus reinforces the
view that Japan has amassed wealth that helps sustain its debt
load even after Standard and Poor’s last month downgraded its  credit rating  for the first time in nine years.  “A recovery in the U.S. and  Europe  is helping to boost the
surplus,” said  Takuji Okubo , chief Japan economist at Societe
Generale SA in Tokyo. “Given the growth prospects of the global
economy, Japan will probably keep enjoying an increase in the
surplus.”  The  International Monetary Fund  upgraded its forecast for
global economic growth last month to 4.4 percent from 4.2
percent. Japan’s economy will expand at an annual 0.6 percent
pace in the three months ending March 31 after shrinking last
quarter, according to the median estimate of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  Exports increased 14.0% from a year earlier, while imports
advanced 12.8% in December, the ministry data showed.  The current account surplus, the broadest measure of trade,
widened 28.5 percent to 17.1 trillion yen in 2010, the first
increase in three years, according to the report. The income
surplus shrank 5.5 percent last year because of low global  interest rates , according to the ministry.  S&P cut Japan’s credit grade to AA-, citing the
government’s lack of a “coherent strategy” to address the
world’s largest debt burden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  