-- Jordan ‘Resilient’ as Moody’s Lowers Outlook, S&P Cuts to Junk
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2011-02-08T18:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/jordan-resilient-sharaf-says-as-moody-s-lowers-outlook-s-p-cuts-to-junk.html
  Jordan ’s economy is “resilient” and
can withstand regional political turmoil and higher commodity
prices,  central bank  Governor Faris Sharaf said after the
country’s local-currency rating was cut to junk and its
sovereign debt outlook was lowered.  Protests that have unseated Tunisia’s ruler and threatened  Egypt ’s President  Hosni Mubarak  aren’t a comparable problem for
Jordan because “there is very clearly a reform momentum both
politically and economically,” Sharaf said today in a phone
interview from Jordan.    Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services cut Jordan’s long-term
local-currency rating to BB+ while Moody’s Investors Service
changed the outlook on Jordan’s Ba2 foreign-currency government
bond rating to negative from stable.  King Abdullah  last week
dismissed his government in response to demonstrations organized
by opposition groups demanding improvements in  living standards .  Sharaf said Jordan’s “economic fundamentals are stable and
are being addressed with full commitment in terms of our budget
deficit and the accumulation of debt.” The kingdom’s banking
industry “remains very strong, our currency is very strong and
the growth outlook for 2011 is positive.” Jordan’s foreign
currency reserves are about $12 billion, an increase of about
10.5 percent from the end of 2009 and equivalent to about 8 1/2
months of imports, Sharaf said.  ‘Downside Risks’  The change in outlook was “triggered by Moody’s concern
that fiscal and economic downside risks related to ongoing
turmoil in the region have risen following events in Tunisia and
Egypt,” the company said in an e-mailed statement today.
“Rising political event risk has led to a moderate
deterioration in the operating environment for businesses and
other entities.”  S&P said it didn’t view the protests that took place in
Jordan as “being in the same category as those in  Tunisia  or
Egypt, but we do believe that the demonstrators could use the
regional uprisings as an opportunity to express their discontent
about high unemployment and the lack of economic development for
lower-income groups.”  S&P affirmed Jordan’s BB/B long-term and short-term foreign
currency ratings.  Jordan’s monarch appointed Marouf Bakhit, 64, as prime
minister last week, replacing Samir Rifai, and tasked the new
premier with forming a government that would start a “genuine
political reform process” and put the country on “the path to
strengthen democracy.”  King Abdullah met Feb. 3 with Islamic leaders who’ve been
calling for political and economic changes after the appointment
of Bakhit.  Muslim Brotherhood  “Economic reform must continue to ensure a better life for
all citizens and will not reach its required level without
political reform,” Abdullah said during the meeting, according
to a Royal Court statement at the time. The Islamic Action Front
has said it’s not interested in joining Bakhit’s government. The
group, the political arm of the Muslim Brotherhood, is the
largest opposition movement in Jordan and hasn’t called for a
change of leadership.  “Because of the regional civic unrest, and to a lesser
degree in Jordan, it would suggest foreign grants will be
forthcoming this year from the  United States  and  Saudi Arabia ,
who will be keen to make sure Jordan remains stable and make up
for additional spending by the government,” said Ali Al-Saffar,
analyst at the  Economist Intelligence Unit  in  London .  Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s “ignore the grants aspect
and assume that higher spending will necessarily divert away
from the capital spending allocation.”  Foreign Investment  Jordan, one of the smallest economies in the Middle East,
imports more than 90 percent of its oil and relies on foreign
investment and grants to finance deficits in the budget and the
current account. Foreign grants increased 25 percent in the
first 11 months of last year to 288.6 million dinars ($408
million), according to the  Ministry of Finance .  The kingdom’s budget deficit narrowed 19 percent to 786.4
million dinars in the same period after receipt of the grants
and a reduction in spending, according to the ministry. Jordan
plans to cut the  budget deficit  to 5 percent of gross domestic
product this year, outgoing Finance Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in a November interview.  Foreign debt  increased by 16 percent to 4.48 billion dinars
in the first 11 months of last year, according to the  Finance
Ministry .  Domestic debt  increased 14.7 percent in the same
period to 6.64 billion dinars.  ‘Challenging Year’  “I think 2011 will be a challenging year for everyone, not
just for Jordan, and that is reflected in the higher global
commodity prices and the regional uncertainty, but the Jordanian
economy is far more resilient today than it has been in the
past,” Sharaf said. “It will be able to absorb any fundamental
shifts in global commodity prices and the government is
committed to addressing the budget deficit and the build-up of
debt.”  Before the regional turmoil, the  International Monetary
Fund  forecast Jordan’s fiscal deficit would narrow to 5.3
percent of GDP this year from 5.75 percent in 2010 because of
reductions in government costs and an increase in external
grants.  Economic growth could accelerate to 4.25 percent this year
“on the back of slowly rising domestic activity,” and helped
by “fiscal prudence and credible monetary management,” the
Washington-based organization said. Jordan had an average
inflation rate of 5 percent in 2010, compared with a drop in
consumer prices of 0.7 percent the year before.  Economic Growth  Economic growth may accelerate to as much as 6 percent this
year from an expected 3.4 percent in 2010, outgoing Finance
Minister Mohammad Abu Hammour said in a Jan. 22 interview. The
country’s economy grew 2.3 percent in 2009.  The central bank is still accumulating foreign currency
reserves and there has been no change in the financial flows to
the country, Sharaf said.  “The monetary stance of the country is geared towards
enhancing growth and addressing structural imbalances and we
feel strongly that we will be able to achieve that,” Sharaf
said.  “It’s inconceivable to think that the monarchy in Jordan
will be abolished anytime soon,” al-Saffar said. “For those
people looking at Jordan and thinking it might be next, that’s
unrealistic simply because the monarchy is much more stable,”
he added.  “It has a get-out-of-jail mechanism and that’s dissolving
the Cabinet and appointing a new premier, like it did when it
had riots in 1989,” al-Saffar said, referring to unrest sparked
by an increase in bread prices after government subsidies were
removed.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 