-- JPMorgan Sees Oil ‘Notable Correction’ as Unrest Eases
-- B y   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2011-02-08T13:42:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/jpmorgan-says-bullish-crude-oil-investors-should-consider-taking-profit.html
Oil investors should consider selling
existing bullish positions because prices may decline this week
without fresh political tension in North Africa and the Middle
East, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co .    New York  crude futures surged to the highest since October
2008 on Jan. 31, with  London ’s Brent trading above $100 a
barrel, on concern Egyptian unrest would disrupt supplies from
the Middle East and unsettle the region’s stability. Signs that
protests are easing mean the market may be set for a “notable
correction,” the bank said in a report yesterday. Hedge funds
raised bullish bets on oil by the most in eight weeks, according
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “This week will be characterized by a drift down in crude
prices on days where either no new tensions arise or where
political progress is perceived,” JPMorgan analysts led by New
York-based Lawrence Eagles said in the report. “Investors
should therefore consider taking profits on all or a portion of
their remaining long positions.”  Oil fell to the lowest in more than a week today as  China 
raised key  interest rates  for the third time since October,
spurring bets that fuel demand may be curtailed in the
world’s biggest energy user. Futures for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  fell as much as 1.8 percent to
$85.88 a barrel while  Brent crude  dropped as low as $97.53.  Egypt ‘Progress’  Prices in New York slid 5 percent in the five days through
yesterday as demonstrations against Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak subsided and the government met with opposition leaders.  Hedge funds and other large speculators boosted net-long
positions on oil, or wagers on rising prices, by 17 percent in
the seven days ended Feb. 1, CFTC data show.  U.S. President Barack Obama yesterday said Egypt is
“making progress” in negotiations with the opposition. About
3.5 percent of global oil output moves through  Egypt  via the
Suez Canal and the Suez-Mediterranean Pipeline, according to
Bloomberg calculations using data from the Energy Department.  Crude may remain volatile because geopolitical risks in
Algeria, Yemen and Jordan haven’t subsided, JPMorgan said.
Opposition groups in  Algeria , a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, planned protests in Algiers on
Feb. 12.  “The risks of a more substantive price shock in the months
ahead remain in place,” the JPMorgan analysts said. “We would
look to add call option length.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. on Jan. 31 said Brent crude is
“vulnerable” to a temporary price drop as anti-government
violence won’t spread to the Middle East. Brent futures in
London reached $100 a barrel that day for the first time since
October 2008 and traded near $99 today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at   crussell7@bloomberg.net  