-- Kindred Acquisition of RehabCare Seen as Signal of More Health-Care Deals
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n   a n d   E v a   v o n   S c h a p e r
-- 2011-02-08T21:26:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/kindred-healthcare-will-acquire-rehabcare-group-for-about-35-a-share.html
  Kindred Healthcare Inc .’s purchase of  RehabCare Group Inc . may signal more acquisitions as health-care
providers aim to expand services in response to government
efforts to reduce costs.  “The attractive candidates” for future takeovers include  Emergency Medical Services Corp ., an ambulance company, and  HealthSouth Corp ., an operator of rehabilitation centers, said  Arthur Henderson , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in Nashville,
Tennessee. Kindred announced today that it will buy RehabCare
for about $877 million in cash and stock to become the largest
U.S. provider of rehabilitation services.  Government health-care plans are looking to bundle payments
for coverage, spurring consolidation among providers and
sparking the interest of private-equity firms. Reducing the
costs of Medicare and Medicaid was a goal of the health overhaul
signed into law by President  Barack Obama  last year.  “It’s an exciting time from an investment perspective
because there’s a lot of transactions and a lot of
opportunity,” Henderson said today in a telephone interview.  Deborah Hileman, a spokeswoman for Greenwood Village,
Colorado-based Emergency Medical Services, declined to comment.
Helen Todd, a spokeswoman for Birmingham, Alabama-based
HealthSouth, didn’t immediately return an e-mailed request for
comment.  RehabCare’s Payoff  RehabCare’s investors will receive $26 in cash and 0.471
Kindred share for each RehabCare share, the companies said in a
statement today. The agreement values St. Louis-based RehabCare
at $35.18 a share, 38 percent above yesterday’s closing price.
Louisville, Kentucky-based Kindred also will assume about $400
million of RehabCare debt.  Kindred gained $5.52, or 28 percent, to $25 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading, the biggest jump
since trading began in 2001. RehabCare rose $11.58, or 45
percent, to $37.05, the most since its 1991 initial public
offering.  The combined company will have more than $6 billion in
annual revenue and operations in 46 states when the transaction
is completed, which the companies said they expect to occur
around June 30. The takeover values RehabCare at $1.28 billion
including net debt, or 9.6 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Buyers paid a median of 9.7 times earnings for
recent acquisitions in the industry.  Smaller Acquisitions  “Generally, I think you’re going to see much smaller
acquisitions” going forward because few companies are as large
as Kindred with $4 billion in stand-alone revenue, said K. Newton Juhng, an analyst at FBR Capital Markets & Co. in New
York, in a telephone interview today.  Morgan Stanley provided financial advice to Kindred, and  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  served as legal adviser.
RehabCare used bankers from Citigroup Inc., with Armstrong
Teasdale LLP as legal adviser and Bryan Cave LLP as legal
adviser to the board. RBC Capital Markets LLC provided a
fairness opinion to RehabCare.  The combined company will operate 118 long-term acute care
hospitals, 226 nursing and rehabilitation centers, 121 inpatient
rehabilitation hospitals and 1,808 hospital, nursing center and
assisted living rehabilitation therapy services contracts.  “We believe that this transaction will be highly accretive
to Kindred earnings and will create significant value for the
stockholders for both companies,” Kindred Chief Executive
Officer Paul Diaz told investors on a conference call.  Home-Health Services  Future deals are more likely to involve home-health
services instead of long-term acute care hospitals, where
Kindred and  Select Medical Holdings Corp . of Mechanicsburg,
Pennsylvania, now have half the market, Eugene Goldenberg, an
analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in New York, said today.  “Health-care reform is causing providers to figure out how
to care for patients more efficiently,” Goldenberg said.
“Anyone who deals with Medicare or Medicaid is looking at a
very tough reimbursement environment.” Medicare is the U.S.
program that helps the elderly and disabled, while Medicaid is
the federal-state health plan for the poor.  Home health is the fastest-growing area of long-term care
and the four publicly held companies --  Amedisys Inc .,  Gentiva
Health Services Inc .,  Almost Family Inc . and  LHC Group Inc . --
are trading below their value, according to Goldenberg.  “You’re likely to see much more consolidation in the home-
health and hospice business,” he said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a very high-growth and highly fragmented market.”  Eric Elliott, a spokesman for LHC Group in Lafayette,  Louisiana , said “We’re not looking to be acquired.”  Scott Cianciulli, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Gentiva,
said the company doesn’t comment on speculation or rumors as a
matter of policy. Todd Lyles, a spokesman for Louisville-based
Almost Family, wasn’t immediately able to comment. A call to
Jacqueline Valencia of  Baton Rouge , Louisiana-based Amedisys
wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catherine Larkin in Washington at 
 clarkin4@bloomberg.net ;
Eva von Schaper in Munich at 
 evonschaper@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 