-- New-Home Recovery Seen as Post-Super Bowl Selling Season Starts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   M .   H o w l e y
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/new-home-recovery-seen-in-u-s-as-post-super-bowl-selling-season-kicks-off.html
Homebuilder executives and economists
predict a post  Super Bowl  bounce in demand for residential
construction as Americans turn their attention from football to
another national pastime: house hunting.  The chief executive officers of six of the 10 largest U.S.
homebuilders cited the potential of a sales comeback in the
spring, traditionally their strongest season, during conference
calls in the last four weeks. Housing forecasts from  Fannie Mae 
and the  Mortgage Bankers Association  show the new-home market
will begin a rebound that will last through at least 2012.  A revival in demand for new houses after record-low sales
in 2010 may bolster a  U.S. economy  that’s 19 months into a
recovery. Residential construction is a key factor in gross
domestic product because it requires the manufacturing of home
components such as stoves, cement, tile and furnaces.  Richard DeKaser , an economist at Boston-based Parthenon Group, said he
expects the homebuilding industry will this year make its first
positive contribution to GDP since 2005.  “The spring market is going to be the first test of the
proposition that there’s an underlying improvement in new-home
fundamentals,” DeKaser said in an interview. “If we don’t see
the needle move, it will be very discouraging.”  New-home sales probably will rise 20 percent to 385,000
this year, said  David Crowe , chief economist for the National
Association of Home Builders in  Washington . Fannie Mae, the
world’s largest mortgage buyer, projected an 18 percent gain,
and the Mortgage Bankers Association estimated a 10 percent
advance, according to forecasts posted on their websites.  ‘Much Better’ Season  D.R. Horton Inc., the second-biggest builder by revenue, is
“locked and loaded” to meet an upswing in demand, Chief
Executive Donald Tomnitz said on a Jan. 27 conference call. The
62-year-old CEO, a former banker and U.S. Army captain not known
for rosy predictions, said he is “anticipating a much better
spring selling season” than last year.  The optimism couldn’t have come at a darker moment for the
new-home market. The number of newly constructed houses sold per
month fell to 20,000 in November, the fewest of any time in 47
years of Commerce Department data. The tax credit that boosted
sales at the start of last year is gone, and cut-rate prices on
foreclosures are drawing buyers to existing properties.  Tougher loan requirements by banks may also limit demand.
At 2010’s end, lenders tightened mortgage credit standards by
the most in three years, according to the Federal Reserve Senior
Loan Officer Survey. Borrowing costs also are on the rise after
the average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage fell to a record
4.17 percent in November, based on data from  Freddie Mac .  After Super Bowl  Spring is a popular time to buy because house hunters often
want to have their home finished by July or August, before the
start of the U.S. school year in September, said John Burns, CEO
of John Burns Real Estate Consulting Inc. in  Irvine , California.
The weekend after the Super Bowl is traditionally when
prospective buyers start looking, he said in an interview.  “If that’s a good weekend for the builders, then we’re
going to have a good spring, and if we have a good spring, we’ll
have a good year,” Burns said. “That’s the way it’s played out
for years.”  In 12 of the last 14 years, the annual peak in new-home
sales occurred in March or April, according to Commerce
Department data. The exceptions were 2003, when the March start
of the  Iraq War  captured Americans’ attention and caused people
to delay house hunting, and 2009, when the tax credit that
originally expired in November boosted demand later in the year.  Sales are counted by the Commerce Department at the time of
contract, while homebuilders book revenue once the transaction
is completed.  Good, Not Great  “The contracts the builders will be writing in the next
few weekends will be a leading indicator of their closings for
later in the year,” Burns said. “It’s probably going to be a
good year -- not a great year.”  Residential investment probably will increase 9.6 percent
in 2011 after five years of declines, based on the median
forecast of 30 economists at a Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago
symposium in December. Housing starts likely will jump 17
percent to a three-year high of 688,000 in 2011, led by a gain
in the construction of single-family houses, said Crowe of the  National Association of Home Builders .  “The sales pace for new homes will improve as we move
through the spring, unless something comes along to derail the
economy,” said James Wilson, director of research for JMP
Securities LLC in  New York . “Demand seems to be coming back.”  Economic Contribution  The real estate market’s collapse reduced residential
investment’s share of the economy to 2.2 percent in 2010’s
fourth quarter, the lowest since records began in 1946, from a
55-year peak of 6.3 percent in the last three months of 2005,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Housing that year
was a larger contributor to GDP than national defense spending.  A rise in homebuilding will help boost jobs for workers who
construct houses and also for people in industries supplying the
appliances that go into them. About 430,000 residential building
jobs evaporated after the housing crash began in 2006 -- a 43
percent decline in four years -- while appliance manufacturing
jobs fell 17 percent in the same period, according to the Bureau
of Labor Statistics. The overall economy lost 7.8 million jobs,
or 5.7 percent of the workforce, after reaching a 2007 high.  The drop in values after the crash will create roadblocks
for potential buyers who have their own properties to sell, said
Thomas Lawler, a housing consultant in Leesburg, Virginia.  Price Decline    Home prices  in December were 27 percent below the all-time
high of July 2006, according to the National Association of
Realtors. That has resulted in about a quarter of homeowners
with mortgages owing more than their property is worth,
according to CoreLogic Inc. in  Santa Ana ,  California .  “Traditionally, one of the strongest parts of the new-home
market is the trade-up buyer,” Lawler said in an interview. “A
lot of people who would like to trade up don’t have equity in
their homes.”  For those who are able to move, and can sell their current
residence, new houses have a draw that existing homes don’t
have, according to Parthenon’s DeKaser. They fulfill the dream
of many people to build from the ground up, he said.  “That’s the strongest thing this segment has going for it
-- some people attach a premium to having a home that no one
else has lived in, with all new walls and new floors,” he said.
“Even if they can get an existing home for cheaper, they’re
willing to pay the price for new.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen M. Howley in  Boston  at 
 kmhowley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 