-- New York Prepares for Frigid Blast as Cold Grips U.S.
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2011-02-08T18:27:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/new-york-city-prepares-for-frigid-blast-as-arctic-cold-grips-most-of-u-s-.html
A frigid blast driven by winds of 30
miles an hour will send  New York  City temperatures plunging more
than 20 degrees today as arctic cold grips much of the U.S.  The temperature in Central Park, which was 40 degrees
Fahrenheit (4 Celsius) as of 8 a.m., will hit a low of 14,
according to the  National Weather Service  in Upton, New York.  “The real punch of cold air will come on a northwest wind
this afternoon,” said Tim Morrin, a weather service
meteorologist in Upton. “It’s going to be pretty cold.”  Natural gas scheduled to be delivered to Massachusetts
households rose the most since Dec. 14 as the cold boosted
heating demand, while gas futures fell to a six-week low on
forecasts of moderating temperatures Feb. 13 through Feb. 17.  Heating oil gained in New York Mercantile Exchange trading.
Inventories of the fuel in the week ended Jan. 28 dropped 6.7
percent to 39.2 million, the lowest level since May 2009,
according to Energy Department data.  High winds delayed some flights arriving at La Guardia
Airport by 90 minutes, and by almost an hour at Newark Liberty
International, according to the Federal Aviation Administration
website.  The frigid air will blanket most of the country and may
bring a low of 10 degrees to Boston and 14 to Philadelphia. In
the central U.S., temperatures have fallen to between 10 and
zero and snow may reach into Texas again, with the weather
service forecasting that  Dallas  may receive as much as 4 inches
overnight.  Wind Chill Factor  “With the wind factored in, you can probably take 20
degrees off the temperature and that is what it is going to feel
like in the East,” said  Tom Kines , a meteorologist with
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . “Out in the
central and southern Plains you can probably take 30 degrees
off.”  Last month was the coldest January since 1994, according to
the  National Climatic Data Center  in Asheville,  North Carolina .
In the contiguous U.S., the average temperature was 30 degrees,
or 0.8 degree below the 1901-2000 average, the agency reported
today.  A cold snap last week forced the Electric Reliability
Council of  Texas , which operates the state’s grid, to order
rotating outages to help power generators cope with demand for
electricity. New Mexico Governor Susana Martinez declared a
state of emergency because of natural-gas shortages, which were
reported across the Southwest as demand rose and power outages
disrupted transmission and production.  Degree Days  Since December there have been 2,296  heating degree days  in
Central Park, or 216 above normal, according to the weather
service.  For February, there have been 217, or 9 fewer than normal,
meaning this month has been a little warmer than average. In
Boston, there have been 2,399 since Dec. 1, or 113 above normal;
in Dallas, 1,419, or 59 above normal; and in  Washington  there
have been 2,087, or 194 above normal.  The value, calculated by subtracting the daily average
temperature from a base of 65 degrees, is designed to show
energy demand. The higher the value, the cooler the weather and
the more energy being used to heat homes and business.  Wind chill  warnings and advisories  stretch from the
Canadian border in  North Dakota  and  Montana  to Nebraska and  Illinois . Temperatures in parts of  South Dakota  will feel like
minus 30 to minus 45 degrees, according to the weather service.
In  Chicago , the temperature will feel like minus 20 to minus 25
degrees tonight through tomorrow, according to the weather
service.  Precautions Urged  “Wind chill values at this level will cause frostbite to
exposed skin within 30 minutes,” according to the weather
service bulletin. “Bring pets indoors; pets can suffer from
frostbite and hypothermia similar to their human caregivers.”  Hypothermia, which sets in when the body’s temperature
falls to 95 degrees or lower, kills an estimated 28,000 people
per year, according to the weather service. Signs of hypothermia
include shivering, confusion, memory loss, slurred speech and
drowsiness, according to the  Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention  in Atlanta.  “It’s going to be brutal out there,” Kines said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  