-- North, South Korean Officials Meet for First Time Since Artillery Attack
-- B y   B o m i   L i m   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2011-02-08T12:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/north-south-korean-officials-meet-for-first-time-since-artillery-attack.html
South Korea and  North Korea  will
continue military talks tomorrow in an effort to agree on a date
and conditions for more senior-level discussions over attacks
that killed 50 South Koreans last year.  Talks ended this evening and will resume tomorrow morning,
a South Korean defense ministry official who declined to be
named, citing military policy, said by phone. The officials met
today at the border village of Panmunjom for the first time
since  Kim Jong Il ’s regime shelled a South Korean island in
November, killing 4 people.  The renewed dialogue may signal an effort by the two
countries to mend ties soured by last year’s clashes, including
the sinking of a South Korean warship.  South Korea  on Jan. 20
accepted North Korea’s calls for talks after the communist
regime agreed to discuss the two incidents.  “The meeting can help provide a  turning point  in inter-
Korean relations and ease military tensions,” Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean studies at Seoul-based  Dongguk
University , said today by telephone. “South Korea also needs to
work on improving ties with North Korea to engage it in
multilateral discussions on nuclear disarmament.”  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  said Feb. 1 that he
was open to meeting Kim if North Korea showed it’s serious about
improving relations.  Nuclear Talks  South Korea’s chief negotiator to six-nation talks on North
Korea’s nuclear program, Wi Sung Lac, will travel to China on
Feb. 10 and 11, the foreign ministry said today in a statement
on its website.  China  is host to the disarmament forum that also
includes Japan, Russia and the U.S.  The talks haven’t been held since December 2008, when they
broke down over a disagreement on how to verify the extent of
North Korea’s nuclear program. North Korea then detonated a
second atomic device in May 2009 and last year revealed its
uranium-enrichment program to U.S. scientists.  South and North Korean officials last met on Sept. 30 to
discuss the sinking of the warship Cheonan in March that killed
46 sailors. North Korea denies the findings of an international
panel, which said in May that a torpedo from a North Korean
mini-submarine sank the Cheonan near the two nations’ western
maritime border.  Kim’s regime said it fired artillery shells on Yeonpyeong
island near the same sea border on Nov. 23 to protect what is
part of its territory. North Korea doesn’t recognize the
maritime border, demarcated by the  United Nations  at the end of
the 1950-53  Korean War .  ‘Made to Pay’  South Korea called North Korea its “enemy” in defense
guidelines published in December. Lee vowed on Nov. 29 that
Kim’s regime “will be made to pay for any further
provocation.”  South Korea plans to deploy cruise missiles, with a range
of at least 500 kilometers (311 miles), on destroyers off the
country’s west coast this year, the Chosun Ilbo newspaper
reported today, citing a government official it didn’t identify.
The defense ministry official declined to comment on the report.  South Korea’s 650,000 troops compare with about 1.2 million
in North Korea. The two countries remain technically at war
since their conflict ended in a cease-fire, which was never
replaced by a peace treaty. The U.S. stations about 28,500
troops in South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  