-- Norway's Finance Minister Says Avoiding Krone Gains Is Key Policy Concern
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2011-02-08T12:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/norway-s-johnsen-says-avoiding-krone-appreciation-is-a-key-policy-concern.html
Norwegian Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said a key policy concern is to ensure the krone doesn’t
appreciate to an extent that hurts exporters.  The  Finance Ministry  is keeping a “keen eye” on the
development of the currency, he said today in an interview in
Oslo. The krone’s recent gains underpin the government’s
determination to limit spending and avoid fueling any
appreciation, he said.  Avoiding krone gains that hurt trade “is one of the main
concerns for fiscal policy,” Johnsen said. “We have a
challenge concerning the competition of Norwegian industries and
that challenge would be even more difficult if the European
market is shrinking.”  The currency of the world’s seventh-largest oil exporter
has appreciated 4.6 percent against the euro since the end of
October and is up 16 percent against the dollar since a June
low. That’s hurting exporters including Oslo-based  Norsk Hydro
ASA ,  Europe ’s third-largest aluminum producer. Half of Norway’s
total output comes from sales abroad, with exporters struggling
to adjust to krone gains triggered by as 24 percent rise in oil
since May and the prospect of higher  interest rates .  The government also needs to design fiscal measures to
remove pressure from the central bank to tighten policy, Johnsen
said.  Avoid Pressure  The government should “avoid that the fiscal and the wage
and income policies put extra pressure on the monetary policy,”
Johnsen said.  The central bank has left its benchmark deposit rate at 2
percent since May and signaled the next increase will come in
the middle of this year. The Frankfurt-based  European Central
Bank , by comparison, has kept its main rate at a record-low 1
percent since May 2009 and President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on
Feb. 3 the level of rates remains “appropriate.”  “The fact that there is still a very low rate in Europe
also means that we must still have fiscal discipline in
Norway,” Johnsen said. “We have seen an appreciation of the
krone and that underlines my point of being very faithful in
sticking to the fiscal rule” of limiting the government’s use
of oil revenue to 4 percent of the country’s sovereign wealth
fund, he said.  Krone Move  The krone slipped as much as 0.4 percent against the euro
after having gained 0.2 percent earlier in the day and was
trading at 7.8695 at 1:21 p.m. in Oslo.  Norway ’s krone was also
sold against  Sweden ’s krona, losing 0.2 percent at 1:21 p.m.
after having traded as much as 0.3 percent higher earlier in the
day.  Dwindling economic growth in Europe caused by the region’s
debt crisis means “access to the European market would be more
demanding and that’s the reason why we also must keep a keen eye
on the currency and of course on the competition possibilities
for Norwegian businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  