-- Obama to Seek Interest-Rate Relief for State Unemployment Plans, Lew Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2011-02-08T22:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/obama-said-to-want-interest-rate-relief-for-state-unemployment-programs.html
President  Barack Obama  will seek aid
for state unemployment-insurance programs burdened by debt
because of high jobless rates, White House Budget Director Jack Lew said.  As part of the 2012 fiscal budget, Obama will seek a delay
of state tax increases and a suspension of interest payments
owed to the federal government, along with a future increase to
the minimum income level subject to unemployment insurance
taxes, Lew said.  “It’s a very important policy,” Lew said in an interview
at Bloomberg News’s Washington bureau. “It reduces the
exposure of the federal budget in the future.”  States, led by  California ,  Michigan  and  Pennsylvania , have
borrowed $42 billion from the federal government as of Feb. 4
because their unemployment trust funds have run out of money,
according to the Labor Department. From 2009 until this year,
the loans had been interest-free under a provision of the
economic-stimulus program.  Under existing law, some states would be required to raise
taxes next year because of federal rules covering shortfalls in  unemployment-insurance  funds. Obama is proposing a moratorium
on those tax increases and interest payments in 2011 and 2012.  Tax Relief  Obama will also propose raising the federal minimum level
at which income is taxed for unemployment insurance to $15,000
in 2014, the official said. The current level is $7,000,
although  most states exceed  the required amount.  Lew said the interest moratorium and the future tax
increase would help get the unemployment insurance program
“back into solid shape after the recession.”  The nation’s unemployment rate was 9 percent last month,
down from a high of 10.1 percent in October 2009. The rate has
been at 9 percent or higher since May 2009. State and local
governments cut 12,000 workers from payrolls last month,
according to the Labor Department’s Feb. 4 jobs report.  Obama will send his multitrillion-dollar budget for fiscal
2012 to Congress on Feb. 14. The document will put into precise
language the administration’s priorities for increasing
economic growth and creating jobs.  U.S. states face budget deficits of at least $125 billion
next fiscal year and have responded with proposals to  cut
education , health care and other programs, according to the  Center on Budget and Policy Priorities . Every state except  Vermont  is constitutionally required to balance its budget.  Helping  Ohio   Ohio Governor John Kasich welcomed Obama’s proposal,
saying, “obviously, that helps us.”  “I’d rather have a lot more flexibility on Medicaid, but
I’ll take what I can get,” Kasich, a Republican elected last
fall, said in a telephone interview.  Kasich was one of 33 governors and governors-elect who
sent a letter to the Obama administration last month seeking
the ability to cut enrollment in the Medicaid health-insurance
program for the poor without losing federal funding.  Ohio’s unemployment compensation fund started borrowing
money in January 2009 and borrowed $2.36 billion as of Feb. 4,
according to the state Department of Job and Family Services.  The department estimates that interest payments will be
$77.1 million in the 2011 federal fiscal year and $138 million
in fiscal 2012. Ohio, which has a current biennial budget of
$50.5 billion, faces a projected shortfall of $8 billion in the
next two-year budget that Kasich must introduce by March 15.  Andrew Doehrel, co-chairman of the Ohio Unemployment
Compensation Advisory Council and president of the Ohio Chamber
of Commerce, expressed concern that the federal assistance was
linked to a possible unemployment insurance tax increase.  Brian Hughes, a spokesman for Republican Governor  Rick Scott  of  Florida , which has borrowed $2 billion from the
federal government, and  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for
Republican Governor  Chris Christie  of  New Jersey , which has
borrowed $1.2 billion, declined to comment on the proposal
because it hasn’t yet been released.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  