-- Obama Budget to Offer $7,500 Electric-Car Tax Credit Through Dealerships
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2011-02-08T21:31:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/obama-budget-to-offer-7-500-electric-car-tax-credit-through-dealerships.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s
administration will propose that consumers receive a $7,500 tax
credit for electric cars at the dealership, reducing the sticker
price, an Energy Department official said.  The initiative will be included in the president’s budget
next week, David Sandalow, assistant secretary for policy and
international affairs, said on a conference call with reporters
today.  Consumers who have used hybrid- and electric-vehicle
credits have received the benefits when they filed their tax
returns. The administration wants to make the cars more
affordable at the point of sale, in the same way the 2009 “ Cash
for Clunkers ” program worked, Sandalow said.  “The current credit is going to be reformed so it’s
claimable by dealers or others,” Sandalow said. “There will be
clear requirements to ensure the benefit is passed onto the
consumer.”  The administration will also propose grants for as many as
30 communities to build infrastructure to recharge electric
vehicles, Sandalow said. The president’s budget will also
include new research and development investments in electric
drive, battery and storage technologies, he said.  Tesla Shares    Tesla Motors Inc ., an electric-car maker backed by  Toyota
Motor Corp . and Daimler AG, rose $1.42, or 6.2 percent, to
$24.49 at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading.
A123 Systems Inc., a U.S. battery maker, rose 61 cents, or 6.6
percent, to $9.92.  J.D. Power and Associates, a research company in Troy,  Michigan , projected last month that under current market
conditions, there would be 750,000 plug-in hybrid vehicles like  General Motors Co .’s Chevrolet Volt and battery-electric cars
like Nissan Motor Co.’s Leaf by 2015.  GM, with about 24 percent of the electric-vehicle market,
and Nissan will be the winners, because they’re already selling
the cars, said Michael Omotoso, director of powertrain
forecasting at  J.D. Power . Honda Motor Co., which is at least a
few years away from selling an electric model, will be among the
losers, he said.  Volt, Leaf  The redesigned electric-vehicle tax credit would be
available to both battery electrics like the Leaf and plug-in
hybrids such as the Volt, Energy Department spokeswoman Jen
Stutsman said in an e-mail. More specifics will be worked out
with Congress, she said.  The budget proposal will be the latest effort to bolster
tax credits aimed at bringing advanced technology cars to the
U.S. sooner.  Representative Sander Levin of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the House Ways and Means Committee, said last month he backed
legislation to enable automakers to claim the tax credits on
500,000 electric vehicles. The current cap is 200,000.  The Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee last year
approved legislation to create a $2 billion program with the
goal of putting 400,000 electric cars on the road in three
years. The Senate didn’t vote on the measure.  The  Energy Department  released a report on the pledge that
the president made in the State of the Union address to have 1
million electric vehicles on the road by 2015.  The current market outlook suggests that while the goal is
ambitious, it is achievable, according to the report. The  auto
industry  will have enough manufacturing capacity, it said.
Additional steps are needed to help companies develop new
technology, reduce costs and spur consumer demand, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 Bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 