-- Obama Budget Won't Set Specifics on Overhaul of Corporate Taxes, Lew Says
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2011-02-09T05:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/obama-budget-won-t-set-specifics-on-overhaul-of-corporate-taxes-lew-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
director signaled the administration won’t back a specific
proposal for overhauling corporate taxes in the spending plan
it releases next week.  Obama has said he wants corporate tax laws rewritten to
lower rates and limit breaks for individual industries and
companies to make up for lost revenue. That should be done by
beginning a discussion with lawmakers about principles rather
than setting out a detailed framework in the budget, said  Jacob Lew , director of the Office of Management and Budget.  “The notion that that starts with a fixed plan is
probably not the best way to get to a positive outcome,” Lew
said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg News’s Washington
bureau. “The best way to get to a positive outcome is get
broad agreement on the goals and work toward them.”  The top corporate  tax rate  of 35 percent, when combined
with state and local levies, will be the highest in the world
after Japan reduces its rate later this year. A variety of
provisions in the tax code allows some companies to pay much
lower effective rates, which could rise if their tax breaks are
eliminated.  At least 80 publicly traded U.S. companies with a market
capitalization of more than $10 billion on Jan. 6 had an
effective tax rate below 29 percent on income reported over the
previous four years, according to a Feb. 3 report by the
Washington Research Group of MF Global.  1.8 Percent  They ranged from companies domiciled in  tax havens  such as  Carnival Corp ., the world’s biggest cruise line operator, which
is incorporated in  Panama , with an effective rate of 1.8
percent, to online retailers like Seattle-based Amazon.com,
which reported an actual rate of 12.8 percent, the report
showed.  Other companies vulnerable to a higher tax bill if
deductions and credits are limited, according to the report,
include Fairfield, Connecticut-based  General Electric Co .,
which paid an effective rate of 16.3 percent; San Diego-based  Qualcomm Inc ., which paid an effective rate of 17.4 percent;
and New York-based  Pfizer Inc ., which paid an effective rate of
18.8 percent.  Obama said in his Jan. 25 State of the Union address that
the corporate tax code has been “rigged” by lobbyists and
“makes no sense.” In a Feb. 7 speech to the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, he asked business leaders to help him overcome
entrenched interests to change a “burdensome” tax system that
ends up steering investment toward tax breaks instead of
products and services.  Fiscal Commission  Obama’s fiscal commission supported dropping the corporate
rate to less than 30 percent and perhaps as low as 23 percent,
accompanied by an elimination of all business tax breaks.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  has met in recent
weeks with business representatives and economists to discuss
ideas for a corporate  tax code  overhaul.  While the U.S. unemployment rate has remained at least 9
percent for the longest stretch since monthly data was first
compiled in 1948, U.S. corporations saw their profits rebound
to a near record by the end of last year’s third quarter, and
nonfinancial companies held $1.9 trillion in cash on their
balance sheets, according to Commerce Department and Federal
Reserve data.  Lew spoke before the scheduled Feb. 14 release of a White
House budget for fiscal year 2012. Concern about the deficit,
forecast by the  Congressional Budget Office  to hit $1.5
trillion this year, is fueling calls by congressional
Republicans to roll back spending. Obama already has called for
a five-year freeze on discretionary spending outside of
security and national defense.  Social Security  Lew declined to address whether changes for Social
Security would be proposed in the budget. He stressed that any
move to alter the federal retirement insurance system would
require broad support.  Obama “thinks that we need to work on a bipartisan basis
to put together a long-term plan so that Social Security
remains sound for future generations without slashing
benefits,” he said.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  said yesterday it
will be up to Obama to take the lead in suggesting politically
sensitive cuts to Social Security and other entitlement
programs.  “There will be no entitlement reform without presidential
leadership,” the Kentucky Republican said.  No Painless Cuts  Lew said the budget will include cuts that are likely to
be challenged by members of both parties in Congress.  “You cannot accomplish the savings on the scale that we
needed to unless we took reductions in the areas that are also
things that we care about,” Lew said. “We didn’t just take a
path towards easy and painless reductions.”  Obama’s spending freeze would save the government more
than $400 billion over the next decade, according to the
administration. Non-defense discretionary spending accounted
for about 14 percent of Obama’s budget for last year, which
totaled $3.8 trillion.  The president has said he will cut some areas of the
budget, while spending more on education, infrastructure and
research. Vice President  Joe Biden  said yesterday the budget
will propose spending $53 billion over six years for
construction of high-speed railroads. Obama also is calling for
aid for state unemployment-insurance programs burdened by debt
because of high jobless rates.  At the Pentagon, the cost of war spending will be reduced
to about $117 billion, down from the fiscal 2011 request of
$159 billion, reflecting Obama’s plan to reduce troop levels in
the war zones and tougher White House rules on what costs can
be included in the war budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net 
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 