-- Obama Seeks $53 Billion Over Six Years to Build High-Speed Rail Networks
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2011-02-08T16:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/obama-seeks-53-billion-over-six-years-to-build-high-speed-rail-networks.html
President  Barack Obama  will ask
Congress next week to approve a six-year, $53 billion program
for construction of a national high-speed and intercity rail
network, Vice President  Joe Biden  said.  “There are key places where we cannot afford to sacrifice
as a nation -- one of which is infrastructure,” Biden said in a
speech today at 30th Street Station in Philadelphia. Obama
submits his fiscal 2012 budget to Congress on Feb. 14.  Under the budget proposal, about $8 billion would be spent
in the first year to develop or improve interconnected rail
corridors that Biden said would form the backbone of a national
high-speed rail system.  Such corridors would be divided into three categories:
“core express” for trains achieving speeds of between 125 and
250 miles per hour or more; “regional” lines for trains
traveling between 90 to 125 miles per hour and “emerging” rail
lines for passenger trains traveling as much as 90 miles per
hour.  In his State of the Union address last month, Obama set a
goal of giving 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail
within 25 years. Some high-speed routes in  California  and the
Midwest are already under way, he said.  Connecting Cities  The administration’s goal is to connect large metropolitan
communities and economies with a transportation alternative to
ease congestion on roads and at airports while reducing
pollution.  Biden’s remarks, released in advance by the White House,
didn’t spell out how the six-year program would be financed, or
what other federal programs may be reduced to offset costs.  Republicans in Congress are unlikely to provide the funding
or endorse the administration’s national vision.  “To spend the money across the country in dribs and drabs
is not going to do it,” U.S. Representative Bill Shuster, the
Pennsylvania Republican who chairs the railroad subcommittee of
the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, said in a
phone interview. “I’m not willing to spend money unless we know
it is going to be targeted on the one corridor where it could
seriously have an impact, and that’s the Northeast Corridor.”  Conservative leaders in Congress have called for
eliminating the high-speed rail program altogether and
Republicans on the House Appropriations Committee have
previously pushed to cut its funding.  Successes Cited  The vice president cited success in high-speed rail
programs in advocating for its expansion. He said passengers
traveling from Pittsburgh and Harrisburg on  Amtrak ’s Keystone
Corridor now connect to high-speed Acela service to  Boston ,  New
York City  and  Washington .  Since track improvements raised speeds between Harrisburg
and Philadelphia to 110 mph in 2006, the Keystone Corridor has
seen rail ridership increase by 57 percent, he said.  “With rail ridership reaching all-time highs in many areas
of the country during 2010, these investments will ensure that
more Americans have the option of taking a train to reach their
destination,” said Biden, who as a senator often took Amtrak,
the government-owned rail passenger service, to his home in  Delaware .  The six-year, $53 billion request comes on top of a $10.5
billion down payment toward a high-speed rail system, $8 billion
of which was funded through the stimulus program.  Manufacturing Jobs  GE Transportation President and Chief Executive Officer
Lorenzo Simonelli, whose company is the leading manufacturer of
diesel-electric locomotives, welcomed Biden’s announcement.  “The investment could help GE Transportation sustain or
create high-tech manufacturing jobs in the U.S. as we build the
next generation of higher-speed passenger locomotives and high-
speed trains serving America’s rail traveling public,”
Simonelli said in an e-mailed statement. GE Transportation is
headquartered in Erie,  Pennsylvania .  Biden also said the administration will consolidate the
 Transportation Department’s  rail loan and grant programs for
cities and states into two accounts.  The first $4 billion account would help fund network
development, building new infrastructure, stations and
equipment. A second account, also funded at $4 billion, would be
earmarked for system preservation and renewal, including
maintenance and repair on Amtrak and other publicly-owned
assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  