-- Honeymoon Murder Suspect Shrien Dewani Has Stress Disorder, Lawyer Says
-- B y   J a m e s   L u m l e y
-- 2011-02-08T10:58:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/honeymoon-murder-suspect-shrien-dewani-has-stress-disorder-lawyer-says.html
Shrien Dewani, whose wife was
murdered last year while the British couple was on a honeymoon
in  South Africa , is suffering from severe post-traumatic stress
disorder and can’t discuss his case with his lawyers.  Dewani, 31, didn’t attend a preliminary hearing in  London 
today. District Judge Howard Riddle excused him on medical
grounds after a lawyer said Dewani has been too ill to be
interviewed.  Dewani is accused by South African police of conspiring
“to murder Anni Dewani” in Cape Town. Anni, 28, was killed on
Nov. 13 after the taxi she and her husband were traveling in was
carjacked in Gugulethu, near  Cape Town . The South African
government wants to extradite him to face the allegations.  “Mr. Dewani is suffering from severe post-traumatic stress
disorder and is also clinically depressed,” his lawyer, Julian
Knowles, told the judge. “One of the questions that needs to be
resolved is whether Mr. Dewani is well enough to take part in
these extradition proceedings.”  Taxi driver Zola Tongo was hired by Shrien Dewani to
arrange Anni’s murder, the Western Cape Director of Public
Prosecutions, Rodney de Kock, told the Cape High Court Dec. 7,
the South African Press Association reported.  Shrien Dewani denies all wrongdoing. Tongo was sentenced on
Dec. 7 to 18 years in jail for his role in the murder. He said
in a plea bargain that Shrien Dewani offered him 15,000 rand
($2,079) to orchestrate the killing of his wife, Ben Watson, a
lawyer for the South African government, said at a hearing
December.  Riddle scheduled a full extradition hearing for May 3.  To contact the reporter on this story:  James Lumley  in London at 
 jlumley1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 