-- Hong Kong Exchange Evades ‘Real Problem’ With Reform, Says Webb
-- B y   S t a n l e y   J a m e s   a n d   H a n n y   W a n
-- 2011-02-08T10:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/hong-kong-exchange-proposes-more-independent-boards-update1-.html
Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.’s
proposal to raise the required number of independent directors
in the boards of the city’s listed companies is “ignoring the
real problem,” shareholder activist  David Webb  said.  The stock exchange is proposing to require independent non-
executive directors to make up one-third of the boards of the
companies, compared with the current requirement of at least
three such directors.  Webb, who quit as an independent director of the stock
exchange in May 2008, citing poor corporate governance as part
of his reasons, proposed companies should have independently
elected directors rather than “pretending that we have
‘independent’ directors” that are appointed by the companies.  The  South China Morning Post  cited Hong Kong Exchanges’
Head of Listing Mark Dickens as saying companies should find an
adequate pool of candidates with the knowledge and experience to
be independent directors. The proposals form part of a  market
consultation  on corporate governance released Dec. 17, which
also proposed requiring directors to spend eight hours of
training on law and company regulation annually. The deadline
for submission to the consultation paper is March 18.  “All of these proposals are just ignoring the real
problem, which is that INEDs are only as independent as the
controlling shareholder wants them to be, which in most cases,
is not at all,” Webb said in an e-mailed reply to Bloomberg
News today. “It doesn’t make any difference how many committees
you have, or what fraction of the board is labeled
‘independent,’ if they all serve at the pleasure of the king.”  The stock exchange proposed a transitional period until
Dec. 31, 2012 for companies to comply with the new quota because
21 percent of companies listed in  Hong Kong  don’t meet the
proposed requirement.  The stock exchange also recommended that companies set up a
remuneration committee whose chairman and a majority of members
must be independent non-executive directors.  Companies’ audit committees should meet at least twice a
year with their external auditor instead of only once a year,
the consultation document said. Those committees should set up
“whistle-blowing” policies for employees and external persons
to raise concerns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hanny Wan in Hong Kong at 
 hwan3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 