-- Options Bets on Brazil ETF Jump to Three-Year High
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2011-02-08T21:47:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/options-bets-against-brazil-etf-jump-to-highest-in-three-years.html
Options traders are placing more
bearish bets against a U.S. exchange-traded fund tracking Brazil
than any time in three years, as policy makers raise borrowing
costs to tame inflation in Latin America’s biggest economy.  The ratio of put options to sell the  iShares MSCI Brazil
Index Fund  versus calls to buy has jumped 55 percent in the past
two months to 1.72 yesterday and on Feb. 3 reached 1.81, the
highest level since January 2008. The last time it reached this
level, the fund tracking 83 securities plunged 62 percent over
the next 10 months. The fastest-growing bets are February $69
puts. The fund hasn’t closed below $69 since Aug. 31 and gained
1.5 percent to $72.36 today.  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index is down 5.1 percent this year,
compared with a 5.5 percent gain for the MSCI World Index.
Policy makers said Jan. 19 that they are beginning a “process
of adjustment” in rates along with measures to slow inflation
as the economy grows by the most in more than two decades.  Brazil ’s benchmark interest rate was raised half a percentage
point to 11.25 percent last month.  “Brazil is a worrisome market,” said Constance Hunter,
managing director and chief economist at Aladdin Capital
Management LLP in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , which manages $13
billion. “The combination of high real interest rates and high
inflation is going to put the brakes on the economy, and that
will impact corporate earnings and the equity market.”  Open Interest  Open interest for put options has risen 27 percent since
Jan. 24 to 771,117 yesterday, while the number of calls has
increased 26 percent to 449,615. The most widely owned contracts
on the ETF are the January $65 puts. They had an open interest
of 45,354 contracts, or 5.9 percent of all outstanding puts to
sell the ETF. The fund’s last close below $65 was July 16.  February $69 puts, the fastest-growing wagers, have jumped
by 16,715 since Jan. 24 to 19,514 contracts, which if exercised
would give the right to sell 1.95 million shares. The next
biggest gains were in the February $68 puts and February $67
puts, both of which increased by more than 14,000 contracts.  “There are some pretty large positions in the downside
puts,” said Ophir Gottlieb, head of client services at Livevol
Inc., a San Francisco-based provider of options market
analytics. “The options market is reflecting more downside
risk.”  Emerging-Market Outflows  Emerging-market ETFs are having their biggest-ever weekly
outflows as clashes in  Egypt  and record world food prices
heightened concern that inflation may spur social unrest and
curb consumer spending. Investors pulled $4.6 billion from ETFs
that track developing-nation stocks during the week ended Feb.
2, according to Bank of America Corp., which cited data compiled
by research firm EPFR Global. Outflows from all emerging-market
equity funds totaled $7.2 billion, the most since January 2008.  Citigroup Inc.’s Economic Surprise Index for emerging
markets, a gauge of how much reports are exceeding the median
economist estimates in Bloomberg News surveys, has dropped to 20
from almost 65 a year ago.  “Inflationary pressures are causing people to get a little
jittery,” said Dave Lutz, head of ETF trading and strategy at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. “A lot of people are
getting behind U.S. equities and we’ve seen a big rotation out
of emerging markets.”  Paring Bets  Withdrawals from ETFs signal hedge funds are paring bets on
the fastest-growing nations, Morgan Stanley wrote in a Feb. 1
report. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has dropped 2 percent
this year as countries from  Hungary  to  Indonesia  raise  interest
rates  to combat inflation.  Valuations for companies in Brazil’s benchmark index are
down by almost half from last year’s peak. The Bovespa Index
trades at 13.2 times earnings from the past year, compared with
16.1 for the MSCI World Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the lowest level for the Bovespa since May in
relation to the global gauge.  The Brazil ETF, which is also known by its EWZ ticker
symbol, has a record 172 million outstanding shares, up 14
percent from a year ago. The fund’s options ranked 20th for
volume in the U.S. last year among about 3,700 stocks and
indexes with listed contracts, according to the Options Clearing
Corp. ETFs are listed on an exchange and change hands throughout
the day like stocks.  “The main pressure on the market has been that the central
bank is trying to cool the economy off,” said Greg Lesko, who
helps oversee $800 million at New York-based Deltec Asset
Management. “If they do slow down the economy, there will be
certain companies that will have slower earnings growth that
they might otherwise have had, which makes them less
attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  