-- Morgan Stanley Woman Turned Chef Lands Job at U.K. Playboy Club
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2011-02-08T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/morgan-stanley-woman-turned-tv-chef-lands-top-job-at-london-s-playboy-club.html
Judy Joo, a  Morgan Stanley  saleswoman
who quit business to become a chef and worked for  Gordon Ramsay ,
will head the restaurant at the new  London Playboy Club .  The club is scheduled to open in May or June at 14 Old Park
Lane on the site of the  Rendezvous Casino . The original  London 
club was founded in 1966 at  45 Park Lane  -- which the Dorchester
Collection is turning into a hotel -- and closed in the 1980s.  Joo, 36, a  Columbia engineering graduate , interned at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . She spent more than four years with
Morgan Stanley in New York and  San Francisco  before swapping her
derivatives-saleswoman’s hat for a chef’s toque. Does she have
reservations about working alongside women dressed as bunnies?  “No, they are absolutely beautiful,” she said yesterday
in an interview. “The whole thing about being a Playboy bunny
is not just about being a pretty face with a rocking body: It’s
about having a personality. These bunnies are going through many
different types of tests, even math, to get a position, so
they’re looking for a well-rounded individual who is smart.  “I’ve worked in very male-dominated environments and you
always want to see women being treated fairly in the workplace.
In terms of Playboy, if you’re going to attack that type of
company, you might as well attack the whole advertising
industry, the entire fashion industry, all of Hollywood. So I
really don’t think that’s an issue that is so pertinent now.”  Joo’s first-floor venue will be called the Dining Room, and
-- like the rest of the club -- will be for members only. She
said the cuisine will reflect Playboy’s American origins, with a
menu that includes steaks and burgers, though not rabbit. The
first club was founded by  Hugh Hefner  in  Chicago  in 1960.  Original Glamour  “I’m going to be executive chef and basically create it
from the bottom up,” she said. “We’re going to stay very true
to the original glamour and sophistication, hints of sexiness.
This club is really being launched with all the 1960s glamour.”  Salvatore Calabrese, a mixologist previously responsible
for bars at the Lanesborough and Salvatore at Fifty St. James’s,
will open a ground-floor cocktail bar.  The new club will incorporate influences from the original.
The 17,000 square-foot (1,580 square-meter) property spread over
two floors is being designed by London-based Jestico + Whiles,
whose projects have included Hakkasan and the Hempel Hotel.  Playboy says a bunny requires 10 attributes: sparkling
personality; excellent manners and  customer service ; natural
intelligence; elegance; graciousness; beauty; class;
sophistication; professionalism; charm and allure, according to
a press release from London Clubs International, which is
opening the club with Playboy Enterprises Inc.  Brains, Personality  “A multiple skill-set is the key!” the release said. “As
any England Rugby Union winger worth his salt requires the
sprint times of a 100 meter athlete, the stamina of a marathon
runner, the throw of a shot-putter and the lifting strength of a
wrestler, so should a top Bunny encompass the poise of a
debutante, the personality of a TV presenter, the brains of a
mathematician and ‘the girl next door’ type of appeal.  “Newly recruited Playboy bunnies will have the honor of
wearing the iconic uniform of their predecessors -- silk bodice,
bow tie, wrist cuffs and of course bunny ears and fluffy tail.”  Just don’t underestimate that human representation of the
Oryctolagus Cuniculus helping to relieve you of your bonus at
the gaming tables: “Bunny Dealers need mental-arithmetic
abilities comparable to a city broker,” the club said.  Joo, who was born to Korean parents in Summit,  New Jersey ,
studied at the French Culinary Institute in  New York . Her break
came after when she went to eat at Ramsay’s flagship restaurant.
The TV chef was there and invited Joo to come and work for him.  Iron Chef  She was a pastry chef there for more than two years and
then was a regular on TV last year in the U.K.’s “Iron Chef.”
Joo lives in an apartment near Bond Street with her husband,
David Allen of the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board.  There were more than 30 Playboy Clubs around the world at
the height of the chain’s success. The new London venue joins
clubs in  Las Vegas , Macao and Cancun,  Mexico , with another one
planned in  South Beach , Miami.  “When we first opened the Playboy Club in London, it was
one of my favorite times for the brand,” Hefner, Playboy
founder, editor-in-chief and chief creative officer, said in a
statement. “I look forward to our return to London.”  London Clubs International Ltd. is a London-based gambling
company that was purchased in 2006 by a subsidiary of Harrah’s
Entertainment Inc.  Playboy Enterprises Inc . is a media and
lifestyle company that markets the Playboy brand.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 