-- Head of Boston Fund Named Co-Conspirator, U.S. Says
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2011-02-08T21:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/owner-of-boston-hedge-fund-named-co-conspirator-in-insider-trading-probe.html
The owner and president of a Boston-
based hedge fund was named as a co-conspirator in a nationwide  insider trading  case, according to a complaint filed by federal
prosecutors in  New York .  The complaint against Noah Freeman, who pleaded guilty
yesterday to  securities fraud , said he provided inside
information to “CC-1,” whom prosecutors described as president
and owner of “Hedge Fund A,” where Freeman was working until
2008. Freeman was one of four investment professionals charged
today by U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  “While working at Hedge Fund A, Freeman and his co-
conspirators provided the inside information to CC-1 for the
purpose of executing securities transactions in publicly traded
companies based, in whole or in part, on inside information,”
according to the complaint.  Freeman was a managing director at Sonar Capital Management
LLC in  Boston  from March 2005 to May 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sonar was founded by Neil Druker in 2003.
Druker is described as general partner and portfolio manager in
a 2009 marketing document. A form filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in March 2006 states that Druker owned at
least 75 percent of the hedge fund firm.  “Any violation of law by Mr. Freeman was unauthorized and
unknown to Sonar and, to Sonar’s knowledge, took place without
the involvement of management or any other Sonar employee,” the
firm said in an e-mailed statement. “Sonar Capital has robust
policies against insider trading and expects its personnel to
fully comply with such policies.”  SAC  A month after leaving Sonar, Freeman moved to  Steven
Cohen ’s SAC Capital LLC, where he was a junior portfolio manager
in its Boston office until January 2010. He also engaged in
insider trading while at SAC, according to the complaint.  The three other investment professionals charged today were
Donald Longueuil, another former portfolio manager at SAC; Samir
Barai, the founder of Barai Capital Management; and Jason
Pflaum, who worked for Barai. Pflaum pleaded guilty yesterday.  Freeman and Longueuil were both dismissed from SAC in 2010
because of poor performance, Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman
for SAC, said today.  To contact the reporters on this story: Katherine Burton in New
York at   kburton@bloomberg.net ; Saijel Kishan
in New York at   skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  