-- Toyota Said to Build New Compact Hybrid Model at New Northern Japan Plant
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2011-02-08T03:40:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/toyota-said-to-build-new-compact-hybrid-model-at-new-northern-japan-plant.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . will build a new
compact hybrid model at a plant in northern Japan as it
reorganizes domestic production, a person familiar with the
company’s plans said.  Central Motor Co., an assembly unit of Toyota, will produce
the model at a plant in Ohira, Miyagi prefecture, according to
the person, who declined to be identified as the plans are
private. The carmaker showed a compact version of the Prius
hybrid at the Detroit auto show last month.  The automaker, based in Toyota City, is shifting production
from its main manufacturing area as the strong yen hurts
earnings from exports. Lower labor costs relative to Aichi
prefecture, Toyota’s primary domestic production hub, and a
nearby port may make Miyagi, about 370 kilometers (230 miles)
north of Tokyo, more attractive for exports.  Toyota spokesman Keisuke Kirimoto declined to comment on
whether the company will build hybrids in Miyagi.  Toyota plans to begin selling a “city-centric” compact
version of the Prius hybrid in the U.S. in the first half of
next year. The car was first shown as the Prius c concept model
at the  Detroit auto show  last month.  President Akio Toyoda has said the company will maintain
domestic production of about 3 million cars. Toyota built 3.2
million cars in Japan last fiscal year out of 7.3 million units
worldwide.  While cars may eventually be shipped out of the Port of
Sendai, which is 28 kilometers from the Ohira plant, they will
be exported from the Port of Nagoya in Aichi until production
reaches sufficient volume, the person familiar with Toyota’s
plans said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  