-- Toyota's Profit May Trail Honda for Third Year as Recalls Crimp Recovery
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2011-02-09T02:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/toyota-raises-profit-forecast-on-demand-in-asia-update1-.html
  Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s
largest carmaker, may trail Honda Motor Co. in profit for a
third straight year as lingering consumer concerns over recalls
crimp its recovery.  Net income may more than double to 490 billion yen ($6
billion) in the 12 months ending March 31, compared with a
previous forecast of 350 billion yen, the Toyota City, Japan-
based company said in a statement yesterday. Last week, Tokyo-
based Honda raised its forecast 6 percent to 530 billion yen.  Even as a U.S. economic recovery and rising demand in
emerging markets help Toyota, the company expects to earn less
than a third of the record 1.7 trillion yen it made in the year
ended March 2008. While the enduring impact of record recalls
damp President  Akio Toyoda ’s efforts to engineer a rebound,
Honda has been boosted by its motorcycle business and greater
resilience to the stronger  Japanese yen .  “Toyota is still carrying the negative impact from the
recalls and is struggling with its profitability compared with
other carmakers,” said Takeshi Miyao, an analyst at consulting
company Carnorama in Tokyo.  Toyota was the only major carmaker to post a decline in
U.S. sales last year as the overall market gained 11 percent.
The company’s deliveries fell 0.4 percent to 1.76 million
vehicles, while Honda’s sales rose 6.9 percent to 1.23 million.  NASA Review  Separately, the U.S. government said it found no link
between electronics in Toyota’s vehicles and sudden acceleration
incidents after a 10-month study.  NASA , the U.S. space agency,
was asked by the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
to conduct a technical review that found only mechanical errors
as the likely cause of unintended acceleration.  Toyota shares rose 4.6 percent to 3,650 yen as of the 11
a.m. trading break in Tokyo.  Honda is getting closer to where its profitability level
was before the 2008 financial crisis triggered by the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., Honda Chief Financial Officer
Yoichi Hojo said last week. Its U.S. factory utilization rate is
back to about 85 percent compared with 75 percent a year ago, he
said.    North America   To insulate itself from fluctuating yen-dollar rates, Honda
also relies on North American-built autos for a higher
proportion of its U.S. sales. In 2010, 87 percent of the
vehicles Honda sold in North America came from plants in the
U.S.,  Canada  and  Mexico , while 67 percent of Toyota’s U.S. sales
were of models built in North America, according to data from
the carmakers.    Ford Motor Co ., the most profitable U.S. carmaker, earned
$6.56 billion in the year ended in December.    Volkswagen AG , the biggest European automaker, may post
2010 profit of 4.85 billion euros ($6.6 billion), based on the
average of eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the
past 28 days.  Daimler AG  may have earned 4.84 billion euros,
according to the average of nine estimates.  Nissan Motor Co., Japan’s second-biggest automaker, posts
its quarterly results later today.  For the fiscal third quarter, Toyota’s net income fell 39
percent from a year earlier to 93.6 billion yen. Profit dropped
after the Japanese government ended a subsidy program for fuel-
efficient models in September and the yen reached its highest
level since 1995 in November.  Strong Yen  “Toyota lags behind others in terms of profit recovery,
but with the U.S. market coming back, the company will produce
and sell more vehicles, which will help it cut costs,” said  Kohei Takahashi , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in Tokyo.  Toyota revised its outlook for the yen’s exchange rate
against the dollar to 86 yen from 85 yen. The yen traded at
82.36 to the dollar as of 11:25 a.m. in Tokyo after reaching a
15-year high of 80.22 on Nov. 1.  Every 1-yen appreciation of Japan’s currency against the
dollar erodes about 30 billion yen from Toyota’s earnings,
according to the carmaker. Honda, which produces more than 70
percent of its vehicles outside Japan, loses 17 billion yen for
each 1-yen gain in the currency.  Auto sales in Japan may benefit from new models including
the updated Vitz compact and  Lexus CT200h hybrid , Toyota said
yesterday.    Asia  Sales  The company said sales in Asia, excluding Japan, rose 21
percent to 335,000 units in the quarter ended Dec. 31. In  China ,
sales may rise to 900,000 vehicles this year from 840,000 last
year, Toyota said yesterday.  The maker of Highlander sport-utility vehicles now expects
to sell 7.48 million autos globally in the year ending March 31,
up from its earlier forecast of 7.41 million.  Toyota cut selling, general and administrative costs by 12
percent in the third quarter. The automaker also lowered full-
year capital expenditure, depreciation and research and
development spending targets, Senior Managing Director Takahiko Ijichi told reporters in Tokyo yesterday.  “Our cost-cutting efforts are moving faster than
expected,” he said.  The carmaker has continued to issue recalls for various
defects as it seeks to regain customer trust. The company said
Jan. 26 it would repair 1.7 million vehicles globally because of
faults in fuel pipes and pumps, pressure sensors and spare-tire
carriers. The announcement came after the carmaker recalled more
than 8 million vehicles for problems linked to unintended
acceleration.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in Tokyo at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue in Tokyo at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  