-- Runaway Toyotas Cleared by U.S. of Electronic Flaws
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2011-02-08T21:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/toyota-review-by-u-s-agencies-finds-no-electronic-flaws-in-runaway-cars.html
Unintended acceleration in  Toyota
Motor Corp . vehicles was rooted in mechanical flaws rather than
electronic defects, a U.S. investigation found.  NASA, the U.S. space agency, and the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration today said a 10-month probe of
defects that led to recalls of more than 8 million vehicles
worldwide found no electronic causes. Safety advocates and some
lawmakers had pointed to electrical faults as a reason for the
reports about the world’s largest automaker.  The U.S. report, released today in Washington, found no
causes for the unintended acceleration incidents other than
sticking accelerator pedals and floor mats that jammed the
pedals down. Those were the causes Toyota, based in Toyota City,
Japan, had identified.  “We feel that  Toyota vehicles  are safe to drive,” U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said at a press conference
in Washington. LaHood, who in February 2010 said Toyota owners
should stop driving their cars, said he later advised his
daughter to buy a 2011 Toyota Sienna, which she did.  The study should “further reinforce confidence in the
safety of Toyota and Lexus vehicles,” Steve St. Angelo,
Toyota’s chief quality officer for  North America , said in a
 statement .  St. Angelo said Toyota will continue to cooperate with
NHTSA and outside experts.  Toyota’s American depositary receipts, each equal to two
ordinary shares, rose $3.44, or 4 percent, to $88.57 at 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That’s the
highest closing price since Jan. 21, 2010.  Toyota shares fell 26 percent in Tokyo between April 5 and
Nov. 1. Before today, the shares had regained 24 percent.  Quality Issues  The review may ease questions about quality at Toyota, the
only major carmaker to post a decline in U.S. sales last year as
the overall market gained 11 percent, because the company
recalled the vehicles to fix the accelerator pedal issues.  “For people that may have been concerned about the brand,
this is probably going to make them feel better about Toyota
products,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics Inc., an
automotive consulting firm in Birmingham, Michigan.  Almost half of the reports about unintended acceleration in
Toyotas were sent to NHTSA in February and March 2010, when
congressional hearings were held, NHTSA Deputy Administrator Ron Medford said at the press conference.  “We received the majority of those reports after Toyota
began its recalls,” Medford said.  Unintended Acceleration  The “vast majority” of complaints about Toyotas were at
low speeds or when the vehicle was stationary, Medford said.  “What most likely happened was pedal misapplication,” he
said. “The driver stepped on the gas rather than the brake or
in addition to the brake.”  Toyota sales fell 0.4 percent to 1.76 million vehicles as
the company paid $48.8 million in fines to U.S. regulators over
the way some of the recalls, the largest by an automaker, were
conducted.  Interbrand , a London-based market research firm, estimated
this month that the cumulative impact of the recalls cut the
value of Toyota’s brand image by 16 percent, to $25.7 billion.
It remains the most highly valued Japanese brand.    NASA , at the request of NHTSA, which regulates auto safety,
began a review in March of electronic throttle control systems
in Toyota cars and trucks. The company underwent a series of
U.S. congressional hearings, which included testimony from
President Akio Toyoda on how the flaws occurred.  Electromagnetic Testing  The findings don’t change the fact that the recalled cars
and trucks had flaws, said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “There really were people killed and injured. There really
were runaway cars,” she said. “They are saying it was
mechanical and not electronic. That doesn’t mean it didn’t
happen. It doesn’t end the fallout.”  NHTSA received 9,698 vehicle owner reports of unintended
acceleration from 2000 to 2010, with 3,054, or 31 percent, of
them about Toyotas, NASA said in the report. Complaints
involving Toyotas didn’t increase after the company introduced
electronic throttle control, starting with its 2002 model year
Camry.  NASA studied whether electromagnetic interference may have
caused unintended acceleration, which may be linked to 89 deaths
in 71 crashes since 2000, according to the auto-safety agency.
NASA investigators used Chrysler Group LLC’s test facility in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , for its vehicle testing work, and
bombarded vehicles with electromagnetic radiation, the
Transportation Department said.  Mechanical components were tested at NASA’s Goddard Space
Flight Center in  Maryland .  Toyota said yesterday that in the 12 months ending March
31, it may earn less than a third of its record 2008 net income.  Net income may more than double to 490 billion yen ($5.95
billion), compared with a previous forecast of 350 billion yen,
the Toyota City, Japan-based company said. That’s less than a
third of the record 1.7 trillion yen it made in the year ended
March 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  