-- Toyota Surges on Raised Profit Outlook, U.S. Government Report on Recalls
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2011-02-09T01:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/toyota-rebound-aided-by-best-hoped-for-findings-in-u-s-probe.html
  Toyota Motor Corp . rose to the
highest in nine months in Tokyo trading after a U.S. government
report found no link between electronics in the company’s
vehicles and sudden acceleration incidents and the carmaker
raised its profit outlook.  The stock gained as much as 5 percent and changed hands for
3,660 yen, the highest since April, as of 9:52 a.m. Toyota was
the biggest gainer on the Nikkei 225 Stock Average and the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index.  While the U.S. findings support Toyota’s position that
electronics played no part in its global recalls of more than 8
million autos for flaws linked to unintended acceleration and
other defects, the company must still convince consumers its
quality has recovered. The recalls triggered a 0.4 percent U.S.
sales drop even as industrywide deliveries grew 11 percent last
year, hundreds of lawsuits and record federal fines.  The findings are the “best Toyota could have hoped for,”
said  Efraim Levy , an auto analyst at Standard & Poor’s Equity
Research in  New York , who rates Toyota’s American depositary
receipts a “hold.” “The brand may not return to the zenith it
once enjoyed, but it will recover.”  Separately, the Toyota City, Japan-based company said
yesterday net income may more than double to 490 billion yen ($6
billion) in the year ending March 31, compared with a previous
forecast of 350 billion yen. That’s less than a third of the
record 1.7 trillion yen it made three years earlier.  The new forecast is higher than the 470 billion yen average
of 11 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg in the 28 days
before the earnings announcement.  Above Consensus Profit  “The NHTSA’s announcement was good news, but the market
here cares more about Toyota’s profit being more than the
consensus,” said Hiroichi Nishi, a Tokyo-based equities manager
at Nikko Cordial Securities Inc.  NASA , the U.S. space agency, and the  National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration , or NHTSA, said yesterday their
probe of possible electronics defects found no causes for
unintended acceleration other than sticking accelerator pedals
and floor mats that jammed the pedals. Those were the causes
Toyota, the world’s largest automaker, had identified.  “We feel that Toyota vehicles are safe to drive,” U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said at a press conference
in Washington. LaHood, who said in February 2010 Toyota owners
should stop driving their recalled cars, said he later advised
his daughter to buy a 2011 Toyota Sienna. She did.  Brand Impact  The study should “further reinforce confidence in the
safety of Toyota and Lexus vehicles,” Steve St. Angelo,
Toyota’s chief quality officer for  North America , said in a
 statement . Toyota will continue to cooperate with NHTSA and
outside experts, he said.  The 10-month review was the most definitive study by U.S.
regulators since Toyota’s Jan. 21, 2010 recall to fix gas pedals.
That recall came after Toyota’s late 2009 announcement of risks
of floor mats jamming accelerators, contributing to its U.S.
sales drop last year.  Toyota paid U.S. fines totaling $48.8 million for the way
it conducted some recalls, the largest such penalty for an
automaker. The company also faces about 400 lawsuits alleging
lost vehicle value, injury or death from sudden acceleration.  The findings don’t change the fact that the recalled cars
and trucks had flaws, said  Rebecca Lindland , an analyst at IHS
Automotive in Lexington,  Massachusetts .  “There really were people killed and injured. There really
were runaway cars,” Lindland said. “They are saying it was
mechanical and not electronic. That doesn’t mean it didn’t
happen. It doesn’t end the fallout.”  ‘Pedal Misapplication’  Interbrand , a London-based market research firm, estimated
this month that the cumulative impact of the recalls cut the
value of Toyota’s brand image by 16 percent in 2010 to $25.7
billion. It remains the most highly valued Japanese brand.  “For people that may have been concerned about the brand,
this is probably going to make them feel better about Toyota
products,” said  Jim Hall , principal of 2953 Analytics Inc., an
automotive consulting firm in Birmingham,  Michigan .  Almost half of the reports about unintended acceleration in
Toyotas were sent to NHTSA in February and March 2010, when
congressional hearings were held, NHTSA Deputy Administrator Ron Medford said at the press conference.  “We received the majority of those reports after Toyota
began its recalls,” Medford said. The “vast majority” of
complaints about Toyotas were at low speeds or when the vehicle
was stationary, he said.  “What most likely happened was pedal misapplication,”
Medford said. “The driver stepped on the gas rather than the
brake or in addition to the brake.”  ‘Some Ways to Go’  In the last six months of 2010, NHTSA received about 2,200
consumer complaints related to unintended acceleration, said  Olivia Alair , a spokeswoman for the agency. Just over 600 of
those pertained to  Toyota vehicles , she said.  Product testers for Consumer Reports magazine, published by
the non-profit group  Consumers Union , began noticing a decline
in fit, finish and materials quality in Toyota products in about
2007, said David Champion, director of automotive testing.  “The Camry really has only average reliability in our
ranking of family sedans,” Champion said. “They still have
some ways to go to get back to that fabulous reliability they
once had.”    NASA , at the request of NHTSA, which regulates auto safety,
began a review in March of electronic throttle control systems
in Toyota cars and trucks. The company underwent a series of U.S.
congressional hearings, which included testimony from President
Akio Toyoda on how the flaws occurred.  Electronic Throttle Control  NHTSA received 9,698 vehicle owner reports of unintended
acceleration from 2000 to 2010, of which 3,054, or 31 percent,
involved Toyota models, NASA said in the report. Complaints
about Toyotas didn’t increase after the company introduced
electronic throttle control, starting with its 2002 model year
Camry.  NASA studied whether electromagnetic interference may have
caused unintended acceleration, which may be linked to 89 deaths
in 71 crashes since 2000, according to the auto-safety agency.
NASA investigators used Chrysler Group LLC’s test facility in  Auburn Hills , Michigan, for its vehicle testing work and
bombarded vehicles with electromagnetic radiation, the
Transportation Department said.  Mechanical components were tested at NASA’s Goddard Space
Flight Center in  Maryland .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  