-- Packers Co-Favorites With Patriots to Capture Super Bowl Title Next Season
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-02-08T13:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/packers-co-favorites-with-patriots-to-defend-super-bowl-title-next-season.html
Green Bay coach  Mike McCarthy  said he
likes his team’s chances of repeating as Super Bowl champions
and Las Vegas oddsmakers agree, listing the Packers as co-
favorites to successfully defend their title.  The Packers beat the Pittsburgh Steelers 31-25 two nights
ago for their fourth Super Bowl crown and a record-extending
13th National Football League championship.  Green Bay is given 7-1 odds to win next season’s Super Bowl
in Indianapolis, according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants,
which advises Nevada sports books on gambling lines. The Packers
are tied with the  New England Patriots  as Super Bowl favorites
even though it’s been 17 years since a National Football
Conference team won consecutive titles.  “I knew we had an excellent opportunity to win the Super
Bowl and, definitely, you look at our returning roster next
year, it’s going to be the same type of situation,” McCarthy
said yesterday. “I’ll be very excited to coach these guys. It’s
a great core group.”  The Patriots were the last team to repeat as Super Bowl
champions six years ago, while the  Denver Broncos  won back-to-
back titles following the 1997 and 1998 seasons.  Seven franchises have won consecutive Super Bowls in the
game’s 45-year history, with the Packers winning the first two
after the 1966 and 1967 seasons. The last NFC team to repeat was
the  Dallas Cowboys , in the 1993 and 1994 Super Bowls.  “Our tradition and history and our ability to repeat,
that’s exciting to us,” McCarthy said at a news conference.
“That’s the next challenge.”  Steelers, Jets  The Steelers, who missed the playoffs the seasons after
their previous two Super Bowl trips, have 8-1 odds of rebounding
to claim a record seventh championship.  The  New York Jets  are also at 8-1 after losing in the
American Football Conference title game two years in a row.  The  Indianapolis Colts  have 9-1 odds for next season, when
they’ll seek to become the first team to play in a Super Bowl in
its home stadium. Lucas Oil Stadium is the site of the game on
Feb. 5.  Also at 9-1 are the  Atlanta Falcons ,  New Orleans Saints  and  San Diego Chargers , according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants.
The Dallas Cowboys and  Baltimore Ravens  are listed at 10-1,
followed by the  Philadelphia Eagles  at 12-1.  The  Chicago Bears  and  New York Giants  have 15-1 odds of
winning next season’s title.  A year ago, the Packers ranked sixth among the NFL’s 32
teams with 19-2 odds. Green Bay went on to win the Super Bowl by
overcoming a 3-3 start to the season and numerous injuries,
including the losses of tight end Jermichael Finley, linebacker
Nick Barnett and running back Ryan Grant.  ‘Reloading’ Packers  Getting all those players back may make the Packers even
more dangerous next season, quarterback  Aaron Rodgers  said.  “It’s a challenge, but I feel like we are kind of
reloading,” said Rodgers, who was named Super Bowl Most
Valuable Player after passing for 304 yards and three
touchdowns.  Rodgers, 27, led  Green Bay  to a Super Bowl three years
after replacing  Brett Favre  at quarterback. Now he’s
part of a young core that includes linebacker Clay Matthews, 24, and wide receiver Greg Jennings, 27. Only four
Packers starters were older than 30 this season.  “Every team has a different face to it, guys come and
go,” Rodgers said. “But the nucleus of this team is intact to
make runs like this for the next four or five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  