-- Parents Who Don't Vaccinate Children Make Us Sick: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2011-02-08T02:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/parents-who-don-t-vaccinate-children-make-us-sick-amity-shlaes.html
Young parents in America are holy and
not to be messed with. If they say something is correct, we all
acquiesce. And is there any man, woman or canine who doesn’t
leap out of the way when one of those giant, all-terrain  Bugaboo 
strollers comes barreling down the sidewalk?  The impulse to butt out of parents’ business is natural.
Our culture hardwires us to respect those who are rearing
children. We gave them a job to do, so we should let them do it.  Yet there’s one smug subgroup whose sense of entitlement
endangers the rest. No, not poor Medicaid moms or Social
Security grannies. The treacherous group is those parents,
predominately those of some financial means, who refuse to
vaccinate their children.  Anxiety about vaccinations starts with a legitimate
concern: the medicine can cause allergic reactions. General
worry became specific controversy in 1998, when the  Lancet , a
respected medical journal, published a paper by U.K. physician
Andrew Wakefield and others saying that the standard vaccine for
measles, mumps and rubella might cause autism.  Later studies couldn’t confirm Wakefield’s findings, and
the Lancet retracted the paper in 2010.  Yet many parents still won’t vaccinate their kids. Some
people in the U.S. have made an avocation of trying to secure a
so-called personal belief waiver to allow their children to
attend school without vaccines. Parents of autistic youngsters
turned to the courts to blame drugmakers.  No-Fault Alternative  Fortunately, the anti-vaccine crowd’s ability to create
public-health problems was limited by the federal government’s
 National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program . It compensates
those injured by certain vaccines while discouraging large
class-action lawsuits. This, in turn, frees drug companies to
concentrate on new vaccines for illnesses such as cervical
cancer.  Still, skipping these preventive steps has become trendy.
Former U.K. Prime Minister  Tony Blair  and his wife, Cherie,
fanned the fires by coyly refusing to say whether their youngest
child was being vaccinated on the usual schedule. Actress Jenny McCarthy has done her part to inspire the no-vaccine movement
with an  ad campaign .  Paul Offit, a physician and vaccine expert who is author of
“ Deadly Choices : How the Anti-Vaccine Movement Threatens Us
All,” noted that in recent years there have been “whole school
classes where no child is properly vaccinated.”  Sick in California  In Marin County, California, officials recently reported
that 7 percent of children in kindergarten there had vaccine
waivers, compared with 1 percent elsewhere. Nationwide, it turns
out that poor parents are more sensible.  Paul Howard  and  James
R. Copland , scholars at the  Manhattan Institute , report that
91.2 percent of Medicaid children receive the measles-mumps
rubella vaccine compared with 90.6 percent of children in
private health plans.  The sad results are already in.  An unvaccinated boy from  New York  contracted mumps while in
the U.K., then traveled home and attended summer camp. Within
six months, hundreds of cases of mumps were counted, including
some that led to pancreatitis, deafness and meningitis, Offit
wrote. A child in  Minnesota  died of  Haemophilus B influenza 
after his parents opposed vaccinations. In January 2008, an
unvaccinated child flew home to  San Diego  following a trip to  Switzerland , and gave the gift of measles to dozens of others,
including three children in a doctor’s waiting room.  Personal Attacks  Marin County, known for the fitness of its citizens,
endured 15 percent of  California ’s  whooping cough  cases in 2010,
even though it accounts for less than 1 percent of the state’s
population. Ten children died, none of whom had been vaccinated,
Offit told me in a phone call.  The anti-vaccine crowd, short of evidence, has reverted to
personal attack. It argues, for example, that Offit is  beholden 
to the pharmaceutical business, having developed RotaTeq, a
vaccine sold by Merck to fight a common cause of childhood
vomiting and diarrhea. But Offit said in an e-mail that he
receives no royalties from RotaTeq sales. The character
assassination is taking place to obscure the strength of the
case Offit makes.  Non-vaccinators aren’t merely endangering their own
children, or even other children whose parents oppose
vaccination. All newborns must wait several months to be old
enough for vaccinations. Vaccines are often too risky for people
with compromised immune systems, regardless of age. It’s
newborns and chemotherapy patients, already physically
vulnerable, who pay the price for parental NIMBYism.    Supreme Court  Case  You can make a creepy Darwinist argument that this problem
is self-correcting. In chastened California, that’s already
happening. Last fall then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger  signed
a law requiring junior and senior high school students to
receive a vaccine for pertussis, or whooping cough, a highly
contagious bacterial disease.  There is no self-correcting dynamic when it comes to
diseases for which there isn’t yet a vaccine. Within a few
months the Supreme Court  will decide  whether the federal
government’s no-fault vaccine-compensation program can preempt
all vaccine-defect claims. If the court says the program doesn’t
have that power, drug companies may become less interested in
developing new vaccines.  That might dash hopes for a new cholera vaccine, much
hoped-for in  Africa , and also an innovation the entire globe
longs for: a vaccine against sanctimony.    Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the  Council on Foreign Relations  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 