-- Paulson & Co., D.E. Shaw Told Fed of ‘Confusing’ Rules Process
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2011-02-08T23:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/paulson-co-d-e-shaw-told-fed-of-confusing-rules-process.html
Executives from Paulson & Co. and
D.E. Shaw & Co. LP told the  Federal Reserve  last month they’re
concerned about how regulators will decide which financial
companies to deem systemically important and subject to the
central bank’s oversight.  Michael Waldorf, managing director at Paulson & Co., and
Darcy Bradbury, managing director with D.E. Shaw, “expressed
concerns that confusing information was circulating about both
the process and likely analytical approach” to designating
firms, “contributing to market uncertainty,” according to a
notice on the Fed website.  The  Financial Stability Oversight Council , a group of
regulators that includes Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
and Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, is developing criteria for
determining which non-bank financial firms are systemically
important and therefore warrant Fed oversight. The council may
begin naming companies in the middle of this year.    John Paulson , who runs the New York-based hedge fund named
after him, earned about $5 billion last year, a person with
knowledge of the firm said last month. New York-based hedge fund
D.E. Shaw & Co. was founded by David Shaw and, according to its
website, had $19 billion of investment capital as of Jan. 1.  The Jan. 26 phone conversation also included Stuart Kaswell
and Benjamin Allensworth of the Managed Funds Association, a
Washington-based lobbying group for the hedge fund industry.
Bradbury is chairwoman of the MFA’s board, according to the
association’s website.  Banking Industry  In a November letter to Geithner, the council’s chairman,
the lobbying group said hedge funds are too small to be
systemically important and the mutual-fund and banking
industries are much bigger. MFA spokesman Steve Hinkson declined
to comment beyond the content of that letter. Spokesmen from
Paulson & Co. and D.E. Shaw declined to comment.  The Fed officials participating were Pat White, Michael Gibson and Donna Hancock of the Fed’s research and statistics
division. A Fed spokeswoman, Barbara Hagenbaugh, declined to
comment.  The largest U.S. bank holding companies, including  Citigroup Inc .,  Bank of America Corp .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., are automatically liable to be deemed
systemically important. The council’s work is focusing on which
non-banks, such as mutual funds, hedge funds, asset managers and
clearinghouses, could potentially pose a risk to the financial
system.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  