-- Pfizer Told to Pay $10 Million Over Prempro Verdict
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2011-02-08T23:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/pfizer-liable-for-1-68-million-in-prempro-damages-appeals-court-rules.html
  Pfizer Inc . must pay more than
$10 million in damages to an Arkansas woman who blamed her
cancer on the company’s Prempro menopause drug, after an appeals
court reinstated a jury verdict.  A Pennsylvania appeals court yesterday overturned a judge’s
ruling that Pfizer’s Wyeth unit deserved a new trial in
connection with Mary Daniel’s claim that Prempro caused her
breast cancer. A Philadelphia jury in 2007 awarded Daniel and
her family $1.5 million in compensatory damages and $8.6 million
in punitives on her claim, according to Esther Berezofsky, one
of the family’s lawyers.  The appellate judges concluded no “fraud on the court took
place here and a new trial should not have been granted,”
according to the 55-page decision from the  Superior  Court of  Pennsylvania .  Officials of New York-based Pfizer said they were
disappointed with the decision and considering their legal
options. Pfizer, the world’s largest drugmaker, completed its
$68 billion purchase of Wyeth in 2009.  “The company disputes the fairness of the previous trial
and the appropriateness of the jury’s verdict,” Christopher Loder, a Pfizer spokesman, said today in an e-mailed statement.  Annual sales of Wyeth’s hormone-replacement drugs once
topped $2 billion before the  Women’s Health Initiative  study,
sponsored by the U.S. National Institutes of Health, suggested
that women on the therapy had a 24 percent higher risk of breast
cancer.  Jury Trials  Until 1995, many menopausal women combined Premarin,
Wyeth’s estrogen-based drug, with progestin-laden Provera, made
by Pfizer’s Upjohn unit, to relieve their symptoms. Wyeth
combined the two hormones in its Prempro pill.  Pfizer’s Wyeth and Upjohn units have now lost eight of the
15 Prempro cases decided by juries since trials began in 2006.
The drugmaker got some of those verdicts thrown out after trial
or had the awards reduced.  It resolved some of the verdicts through settlements, while
other decisions are on appeal. Wyeth also has won dismissals of
more than 3,000 cases before trial, according to court filings.  Evidence in Daniel’s case showed that she took Prempro for
about 16 months starting in December 1999 and was diagnosed with  breast cancer  in July 2001.  A  Philadelphia Common Pleas Court  jury found that Prempro
was a “factual cause” of Daniel’s cancer and awarded her $1
million in compensatory damages. The panel also awarded Daniel’s
husband, Tom, $500,000 in damages.  Sealed Verdict  Jurors also handed down $8.6 million in punitive damages,
Berezofsky said. The judge in the case sealed that verdict
because another Prempro trial was ongoing in the same
courthouse. Berezofsky made the punitive damage award public
today after the appeals court ruling.  The trial judge in the case threw out both verdicts and
gave Wyeth a new trial because of questions about the testimony
of one of the plaintiffs’ expert witnesses.  The appeals court found the trial judge erred in
questioning the testimony and ordered the verdicts reinstated.
The ruling means an additional $2.4 million in pre- and post-
judgment interest will be added the award, Berezofsky said.  Pfizer rose 12 cents to $19.16 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 9.4
percent this year.  The case is Mary Daniel v. Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc., No.
2626 EDA 2007, Superior Court of Philadelphia (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Rovella at 
 drovella@bloomberg.net . 