-- Philippines to Refrain From Immediate Rate Increase, Deputy Governor Says
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2011-02-08T04:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/philippine-central-bank-s-guinigundo-sees-no-need-to-raise-interest-rates.html
The Philippine central bank has no
current need to raise interest rates from a record low, while
policy makers will be “pre-emptive” should their inflation
target come under threat, a deputy governor said.  Consumer price gains remain “benign,”  Diwa Guinigundo 
said in an interview in Manila late yesterday, ahead of Bangko
Sentral ng Pilipinas’s Feb. 10 rate decision. “At the initial
sign of the inflation outlook being threatened or inflation
expectations being dis-anchored, the public is assured BSP is
prepared to initiate the necessary monetary action.”  Guinigundo’s remarks indicate the  Philippines  won’t follow
neighbor Indonesia, which four days ago joined most of the
region in lifting borrowing costs as inflation pressures
escalate. The Philippine peso has risen at less than half the
pace of Malaysia’s currency against the dollar since the start
of last year, after  Malaysia  led  Southeast Asia  in raising rates.  “Bangko Sentral can afford to stay put given that
inflation remains in the lower end of its target range,” said
Dariusz Kowalczyk, a Hong Kong-based economist at Credit
Agricole CIB. “Still, investors fear that being the last
central bank in  Asia  not to have started a tightening cycle yet,
it is behind the curve.”  Benchmark three-year Philippine bond yields rose 1
percentage point in January, snapping eight months of gains, on
concern inflation will accelerate this year. The benchmark
Philippine Stock Exchange Composite Index is down about 12
percent from its Nov. 4 record high.  Inflation Prediction  “At this point, we don’t see the immediate need for policy
adjustment,” Guinigundo said, predicting that the nation will
meet the bank’s 3 percent to 5 percent consumer-price growth
target for 2011 and next year. There may be one-off adjustments
in power, transportation and food prices, he added.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. yesterday recommended investors
buy the  Philippine peso  as the central bank lets the currency
appreciate in an effort to curb inflation. The company advised
buying the currency through three-month non-deliverable forward
contracts, expecting it to strengthen to 42 per dollar.  The Philippine peso gained for a sixth day today to a two-
month high of 43.475 per dollar as of noon in Manila, according
to Tullett Prebon Plc.  Twelve out of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict the central bank will leave the nation’s benchmark rate
unchanged at 4 percent this week.  Sustained Growth  Officials have kept the overnight borrowing rate at the
current level since July 2009, helping to spur the fastest
economic expansion in more than three decades in 2010 and
boosting demand for  Ayala Land Inc . homes and  Jollibee Foods
Corp . meals.  “The sustained economic expansion in emerging markets is
providing strong support to food and commodity prices,”
Guinigundo said. If an “adjustment is absolutely necessary at
some point in time, it will be done in a gradual manner,” he
said.  Inflation accelerated to a four-month high of 3.5 percent
in January and may climb further after oil and food prices
increased and as the government allows higher public transport
fares.  Rising price pressures have already led  Thailand ,  South
Korea ,  India  and Indonesia to boost rates this year. The
region’s policy makers may need to raise borrowing costs further
to limit the risk of overheating and prevent a “hard landing,”
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn said Feb. 1.  Higher Rates  “Inflation appears to be the major concern of both
advanced and emerging economies,” Guinigundo said. “The basic
issue now is should monetary policy have to address these
inflation concerns.”  The economy can meet growth targets even with higher
borrowing costs, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga
told reporters in  Manila  today. Credit Agricole’s Kowalczyk
predicts Bangko Sentral will raise its benchmark rate by half a
percentage point this year starting in the second quarter.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing  government spending 
to a record to expand the $161 billion economy by as much as 8
percent annually starting this year. Aquino is asking investors
to help build more than 700 billion pesos ($16 billion) worth of
roads, schools and bridges in a nation where the  World Bank 
estimates one out of four people live on less than $1.25 a day.  Tetangco Tenure  The president said in January that he will give central
bank Governor Amando Tetangco a new six-year mandate when his
term ends in July, adding he has “confidence” in the governor.
Tetangco has kept inflation below 5 percent in the past 22
months.  Consumer price-gains have exceeded that pace for eight
straight months in  Indonesia , where the central bank last week
raised the benchmark rate for the first time since 2008 to curb
inflation. India raised its rate to a two-year high last month
and signaled further increases lie ahead.  South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  has declared “war”
on inflation, with the nation’s central bank raising rates for
the third time since the financial crisis on Jan. 13 and the
government announcing price controls the same day.  Philippine gross domestic product expanded 7.3 percent in
2010, the biggest gain since 1976, boosted by business and
consumer spending. Policy makers in December forecast inflation
will average 3.6 percent this year, and Tetangco has said the
central bank is watching inflation risks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  