-- Picasso’s Mistress Makes $40.5 Million as Art Buyers Get Choosy
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2011-02-09T00:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/picasso-s-sleeping-mistress-fetches-40-5-million-in-sotheby-s-london-sale.html
A Pablo Picasso painting of his
mistress last night sold for 25.2 million pounds ($40.5 million)
as highly valued artworks attracted selective bidding.  “La Lecture” was estimated to make 12 million pounds to
18 million pounds at Sotheby’s in London. Ten of the 42
Impressionist and modern lots failed to sell, including a bronze
by  Alberto Giacometti .  “The auction did all right, not great,’’ the London-based
dealer Alan Hobart of the  Pyms Gallery  said in an interview.
“The auction houses are struggling to find the goods. Rich
collectors are hanging on to their art. Once prices are driven
up, the market becomes more discriminating.”  Classic works by modern artists with reputations such as
Picasso are attracting investment-conscious new buyers from the
emerging economies of  Russia ,  Asia  and the Middle East, said
dealers. Choosy bidders held back on other lots, in contrast
with the equivalent event last year, which raised twice as much,
boosted by the record 65 million pounds for another Giacometti
bronze.  The oil-on-panel Picasso portrait of his blonde muse Marie-
Therese Walter asleep in a chair with a book on her lap was
bought on the telephone by Mark Poltimore, deputy chairman of
Sotheby’s  Europe , who acts for Russian clients. There were seven
bidders “from around the world,’’ said Helena Newman, Sotheby’s
European chairman of Impressionist and modern art.  The work, entered by an American collector, dates from
1932, the same year as Picasso’s Walter-inspired “Nude,  Green
Leaves  and Bust,” which fetched $106.5 million -- a record for
any work of art at auction -- at Christie’s International in  New
York  in May last year.  Mistress Meeting  Picasso was 45 and Walter 17 when they met outside a Paris
subway station in 1927. She was his mistress from 1927 to about
1935 when he was married to Olga Khokhlova.  A 1923 head-and-shoulders oil portrait of Khokhlova sold to
a telephone bidder for 1.7 million pounds, just missing a high
estimate of 1.8 million pounds.  Giacometti’s 1957 bronze portrait of his younger brother,
“Grand buste de Diego avec bras,” estimated at 3.5 million
pounds to 5 million pounds, failed to sell because of its pale
color, according to dealers.  Marino Marini’s  1955 bronze of a mounted horseman, “L’Idea
del Cavaliere,” carried a low estimate of 3.7 million pounds,
reflecting the artist record of 4.5 million pounds paid for
another sculpture at Christie’s Frieze Week sale in October.  One of three lots guaranteed by an irrevocable bid, it
attracted negligible competition and was sold for 4.2 million
pounds to David Norman, a  Sotheby’s  New York-based specialist.  Magritte Moon  Rene Magritte’s 1955 painting “Le Maitre d’Ecole,”
showing a crescent moon hanging above his bowler-hatted alter
ego, fetched 2.5 million pounds, beating a top estimate of 1.2
million pounds, and setting an auction record for a work on
paper by the artist. It attracted three phone bidders.
Telephones bidders dominated the evening, with about six lots
falling to buyers in the room.  The auction raised 68.8 million pounds with fees against
presale estimates of 55.6 million pounds to 79.3 million pounds,
based on hammer prices. Successful buyers hailed from 11
different countries, Newman said. Last year’s 39-lot event
raised 146.8 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 