-- Pimco Says Municipal Debt Market Has Swung `Too Far Into Default Panic'
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2011-02-08T21:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/pimco-says-municipal-debt-market-has-swung-too-far-into-default-panic-.html
State and local bonds offer some of
the most compelling value in credit markets because the U.S.
municipal debt market has “swung too far into default panic,”
according to Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The real level of defaults that the muni market will
experience will be well below what the market currently implies,
not to mention some of the more extreme predictions of hundreds
of billions of dollars worth of muni defaults,” Pimco, the
world’s biggest manager of bond funds, wrote in a report today.  Meredith Whitney, the banking analyst and chief executive
officer of  Meredith Whitney  Advisory Group, speaking Dec. 19 on
CBS Corp.’s “60 Minutes,” predicted that states’ fiscal stress
would spark a “spate” of defaults among municipalities
amounting to “hundreds of billions of dollars.”  Investors last week withdrew $1.1 billion from U.S.
municipal-bond mutual funds, the 12th-straight outflow, Lipper
U.S. Fund Flows said Feb. 3. About $23.6 billion has been
redeemed since the week ended Nov. 17, including $4 billion in
the week ended Jan. 19, the most since Lipper started compiling
data in 1992.    Bill Gross , the founder and co-chief investment officer of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco, said in a Jan. 12
interview on Bloomberg Television that he doesn’t subscribe to
Whitney’s theory.  Pimco, a unit of Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE , managed
$1.24 trillion of assets as of Sept. 30.  Manageable Debt  Manageable levels of debt, low interest-rate costs, and the
long-term nature of state debt are reasons for Pimco’s bullish
position, the report said.  In 2008 the median state debt was 7.3 percent of gross
state product, the equivalent of gross domestic product, the
report said, citing U.S. Census Bureau Data.  Aggregate municipal interest costs are below historical
averages. In the early 1990s, interest represented 6.2 percent
of total state and local revenue and in 2008 those costs were
below 5 percent of combined revenue.  The report was written by Christian Stracke, global head of
Pimco’s credit research group, and Joseph Narens, a municipal
credit analyst for the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Robinson in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  