-- Pirates Hijack Italian-Flagged Oil Tanker With 22 Crew Off Somalia's Coast
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2011-02-08T10:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/pirates-hijack-italian-flagged-oil-tanker-with-22-crew-off-somalia-s-coast.html
An Italian-flagged oil tanker with 22
crew members was hijacked by pirates off the coast of Somalia in
the Indian Ocean today.  “The vessel was boarded after a sustained attack by one
skiff with five suspected pirates firing small arms and four
rocket-propelled grenades,”  Atalanta , the European Union’s
anti-piracy mission, said in a statement posted on its  website .
The attack occurred early this morning about 670 nautical miles
east of the Yemeni island of Socotra, Atalanta said.  The  Savina Caylyn  was heading from Bashayer in  Sudan  to
Pasir Gudang in  Malaysia  when it was attacked, and “there is
presently no communication with the vessel and no information
regarding the crew” of 5 Italians and 17 Indians, according to
the statement. The ship appears to be moving west toward
Somalia, an Atalanta official said, declining to be named in
line with policy.  Somalia has lacked an operating government since 1991, and
parts of its coast have become home to the world’s most active
pirate groups. Pirates hijacked a record 53 ships and 1,181 crew
members in 2010, most of them off  Somalia , according to the
London-based International Maritime Bureau.  The attacks have spurred a 36-fold jump in ransoms in five
years, raising costs for shippers and the threat to vessels
carrying 20 percent of world trade, Louisville, Colorado-based
One Earth Future Foundation estimates. The raids are adding at
least $2.4 billion to transport costs because vessels are being
diverted onto longer routes, as average ransom payments rose to
$5.4 million last year, compared with $150,000 in 2005, the non-
profit group says.  Atalanta was created in December 2008 and has nine frigates
and three patrol planes. It covers an area of 16.8 million
square kilometers (6.5 million square miles) off the Somali
coast, an area twice the size of the EU itself.  The Savina Caylyn is 266 meters long (873 feet) and 46
meters wide, according to records posted on website  Marine
Traffic . A spokesman for Fratelli D’Amato, which operates the
ship, declined to comment when contacted by phone today at the
company’s headquarters in Naples,  Italy .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in  Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  