-- Zawada Rebuilds PKO's Polish Stock Team as Credit Suisse, Goldman Expand
-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 2011-02-08T10:43:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/pko-seeks-to-double-polish-equities-team-as-credit-suisse-goldman-expand.html
PKO Bank Polski SA,  Poland ’s largest
bank, is rebuilding its team of equity analysts to compete with
foreign rivals lured to the country by record share sales and
rising stock volumes.  The state-controlled bank’s brokerage hired Grzegorz Zawada
this month as co-head in charge of equity research. Zawada, 37,
returned to Poland after stints as a banking analyst at London-
based units of Nomura Holdings Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc and HSBC Holdings Plc. He will be the third analyst in
the team, depleted in past months by departures to domestic
competitors.  “We plan to at least double the number of analysts this
year,” Zawada said an interview in Warsaw. “The level of our
equity research should correspond to the level of the bank -- we
should be one of the leading players.”  PKO, with 167 billion zloty ($59 billion) of assets and
more than 1,200 branches across Poland, is facing increased
competition from foreign and domestic rivals.  Credit Suisse
Group AG ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and  JPMorgan Chase & Co .
expanded equity coverage in Poland last year as share sales
reached a record $10 billion and trading volumes increased.  The  Warsaw Stock Exchange  was the fastest-growing market in
central  Europe  in the past 10 years, more than doubling the
number of traded companies and almost tripling daily turnover,
according to its  website . The bourse lists companies with total
market capitalization of $199 billion, making it the third-
largest in emerging Europe after markets in Russia and  Turkey .  Broadening Coverage  PKO’s brokerage is currently covering “around a dozen”
Polish companies and plans to increase the number to around 60
by next year, according to Zawada. The brokerage plans to cover
all stocks from Warsaw’s benchmark WIG20 Index and 40 smaller
companies, out of the bourse’s total of 397 listed companies.  “It’s hard to imagine that the largest bank in Poland has
a limited supply of this basic investment-banking product,
equity research,” said Zawada. “Our competitive advantage is
the bank’s firm grounding in the Polish economy, and we will
want to look at smaller companies apart from the WIG20 group.”  Polish share sales almost doubled in 2010 as the government
cut its stakes in the largest energy, copper, phone and
insurance companies to help finance the  budget deficit  and limit
borrowing, Bloomberg data showed. The 8.1 billion-zloty initial
public offering of insurer PZU SA in April was the biggest by a
Polish company since the Warsaw Stock Exchange was created in
1991 and the second-largest in Europe in 2010 after Enel Green
Power SpA.  This year the government plans IPOs of coking coal producer
Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa SA, agricultural lender Bank
Gospodarki Zywnosciowej SA and a property holding company that
the Treasury Ministry is creating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw at 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  