-- Pride Costs Most in a Decade as History Trumps Math: Real M&A
-- B y   M i c h a e l   T s a n g ,   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2011-02-08T21:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/pride-costs-ensco-most-in-decade-as-history-trumps-math.html
There’s more to  Ensco Plc ’s deal for  Pride International Inc ., the costliest oil drilling takeover in
a decade, than just the math.  Ensco’s agreement yesterday to pay $7.3 billion in stock
and cash to create the second-largest offshore driller valued
Houston-based Pride at 21 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg that includes net debt. That’s more
expensive than any purchase of an oil driller in the past 10
years and almost twice the industry average of 10.7 times.  The takeover is the first by London-based Ensco since Chief
Executive Officer Dan Rabun lost a bidding contest for  Scorpion
Offshore Ltd . to Norwegian billionaire  John Fredriksen ’s  Seadrill Ltd . in May. Ensco may borrow as much as $2.75 billion
to finance the acquisition, which may help fend off potential
suitors for a company with assets in Brazil and West Africa, two
of the world’s richest exploration regions, and earnings that
analysts predict will rebound to a record next year.  “It’s a rich valuation,” said  David Abella , a money
manager at Rochdale Investment Management LLC in  New York , which
oversees $3 billion and owns shares of Ensco and Pride. “They
might be paying on the high side to discourage other bidders,
including Seadrill. They didn’t want to lose the battle again.”  Still, “if the future looks like oil could go higher, it
can make some sense even at this price,” he said.  Relative Value  Ensco will pay 0.4778 of its own stock and $15.60 in cash
for each Pride share, according to the terms of the agreement.
That valued Pride at $41.60 a share, or about a 24 percent
premium, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The total value of the acquisition, including the
assumption of Pride’s net debt, is now about $8.4 billion, or 21
times the company’s previous 12 months of reported Ebitda. Based
on analysts’ Ebitda estimates of $480.2 million for 2010, Pride
is valued at 17.4 times.  No oil drilling takeover of at least $500 million has been
costlier in the past 10 years based on either measure, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The most expensive deal on record
was Vernier, Switzerland-based  Transocean Ltd .’s purchase of R&B
Falcon Corp. for $6.8 billion including net debt.  Transocean announced in August 2000 that it agreed to pay
36 times R&B Falcon’s reported Ebitda. After completing the
transaction on Feb. 1, 2001, the combined company’s shares fell
31 percent in the next 12 months, almost double the 18 percent
drop in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in the same period.  ‘Salty Premium’  Future earnings may decrease Ensco’s acquisition cost.
Pride’s Ebitda will surge 73 percent to $829.3 million this year
and climb 23 percent to a record $1.02 billion in 2012,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  That would still value the transaction at 8.2 times next
year’s earnings, or 14 percent higher than the 7.2 times average
multiple for Pride’s competitors Seadrill, Baar, Switzerland-
based  Noble Corp . and  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc . in Houston,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It was a salty premium,” said Collin Gerry, an analyst
for  St. Petersburg , Florida-based Raymond James Financial Inc.
“It was an expensive deal but they’ve got some high quality
assets. The forward numbers for Pride are substantially higher
than the trailing numbers because they are adding a lot of
assets.”  Ensco’s American depositary receipts slipped 1.7 percent to
$51.27 in New York Stock Exchange trading. Pride declined 1
percent to $39.42.  Failed Bid  Rabun’s last attempt to acquire a rival failed last year
when a bid to buy a 19 percent stake in Hamilton, Bermuda-based
Scorpion collapsed in May. He indicated at the time that the
offer was a step toward an eventual takeover of Scorpion.  The bid, supported by Scorpion, was unsuccessful even after
Ensco raised the price on May 28 to 40 kroner ($6.94) a share
from 39.5 kroner a share. Hamilton, Bermuda-based Seadrill
offered to buy 10.1 percent of Scorpion for 40.50 kroner a share
to raise its holding to more than 50 percent.  “Ensco didn’t want anyone to be able to counteroffer”
their Pride bid, said Judson Bailey, an analyst at Jefferies &
Co. in Houston. “The last thing they want is to relive the
Scorpion experience.”  Sean O’Neill, an Ensco spokesman, didn’t return a telephone
message left at the company’s U.S. headquarters in Dallas.  Ensco’s lead financial adviser and strategic adviser for
the Pride acquisition is Deutsche Bank AG of Frankfurt, while
New York-based Citigroup Inc. also served as a financial
adviser. Pride used  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . in New York.
Deutsche Bank and Citigroup have committed to finance the debt
related to the sale, Ensco said.  Brazil, West Africa  Ensco is acquiring Pride to gain a foothold in Brazil and
West Africa, Rabun, 56, said on a conference call yesterday. The
company signed its first contract to lease a rig in Brazil last
week and had no presence in West Africa. With the purchase,
Ensco’s Brazilian rig count will climb to 10, with five more in
West Africa.  The company’s deepwater drilling operations may benefit
from Pride’s customer relationships in Brazil with state-
controlled Petroleo Brasileiro SA, known as Petrobras, and  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  of  Rio de Janeiro .  Petrobras is investing more than $200 billion through 2014
as it taps Brazilian oil deposits below a layer of salt in the
Atlantic Ocean that may hold at least 123 billion barrels of
reserves. Brazilian lawmakers last year made Petrobras the
operator of all new exploration licenses in the so-called pre-
salt and other strategic areas.  Lula Field  Petrobras’s Lula field, discovered in 2006 and previously
known as Tupi, was at the time the biggest find in the Americas
since Mexico’s Cantarell in 1976. The Lula field holds an
estimated 6.5 billion barrels of recoverable oil.  Ensco’s offer may deter competing bids, with Seadrill
expected to sell its stake, Kevin Simpson, an analyst at Miller
Tabak & Co. in New York, wrote in a report yesterday.  By agreeing to sell at Ensco’s offer price, Fredriksen’s
Seadrill would make a $124 million profit on its 9.4 percent
stake in Pride, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That’s a return
of about 23 percent, based on the price of Seadrill’s forward
contracts for Pride shares, according to  regulatory filings .  Seadrill hasn’t decided if it will sell its stake and
pursue other targets, Esa Ikaeheimonen, the company’s chief
financial officer, said in an interview yesterday. Seadrill’s
shares fell 2.5 percent to 200.8 kroner in Oslo.  “We’ve got a lot of work to do to finalize the merger so I
can’t really address any one shareholder’s particular
situation,” Kate Perez, a spokeswoman for Pride, said in
response to questions about the stake of Fredriksen, 66, and the
premium Ensco agreed to pay.  Danaher,  Beckman Coulter   Elsewhere in mergers and acquisitions,  Danaher Corp . agreed
to buy Brea, California-based  Beckman Coulter Inc . for $6.8
billion, including net debt, to expand in health-diagnostic
equipment amid increasing demand from an aging U.S. population.  Danaher, the Washington-based maker of microscopes and
water-treatment systems, will start a tender offer of $83.50 a
share within seven days, according to a statement yesterday.    AOL Inc ., the Internet company spun off from Time Warner
Inc., agreed to buy the  Huffington Post  for $315 million to help
revive advertising sales growth and secure the closely held news
site’s co-founder Arianna Huffington as editor-in-chief for
content. The deal includes about $300 million in cash, New York-
based AOL said yesterday in a statement.  There have been 2,436 deals announced globally this year,
totaling $208.8 billion, a 21 percent increase from the $172.7
billion in the same period in 2010, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:  Michael Tsang  in New York at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Carroll in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 