-- Race to Be China's Facebook Pits Renren Against Tencent, Baidu
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2011-02-08T23:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/race-to-be-china-s-facebook-pits-renren-against-600-million-tencent-users.html
The top social-networking service in
the world’s biggest Internet market was created by graduates of
a prestigious university to help students communicate with each
other. And it’s not Facebook Inc.  Renren.com  leads  China ’s surging social-networking market
with more than 160 million registered users, according to
Analysys International in Beijing. Competitor  Kaixin001.com  has
more than 93 million. Their edge over billionaire  Mark Zuckerberg ’s service: a government that blocks Facebook access.  “Our service is basically the same as Facebook’s, in terms
of functions and features,” said Donna Li, general manager of
strategic marketing and media planning at Renren. “We are more
tailored to the China market.”  With Facebook’s valuation topping $63 billion, Renren and
peers may be the next investment opportunities in a market with
more Internet users than the combined populations of the U.S.
and Japan. Those sites and competitors  Tencent Holdings Ltd . and
Baidu Inc. have room to grow as the online advertising market is
projected to triple to almost $13 billion by 2014.  “Advertisers have really warmed to the new social-
networking sites very quickly,” said Steven Chang, chief
executive officer for China at Zenith Optimedia, the media unit
of  Publicis Groupe SA . “A lot of advertisers are willing to do
business with the new social-media sites because many of them
actually use the services.”  Facebook, Twitter  Renren, or “everyone” in Chinese, is probably preparing
for an initial public offering, said Michael Clendenin,
managing director at consultants RedTech Advisers in Shanghai.
The site’s biggest investor is Japan’s  Softbank Corp .
Kaixin001.com, founded by former Sina Corp. executive Cheng
Binghao, also is seeking a listing, Clendenin said.  Online advertising in China likely totaled $3.9 billion
last year and may climb more than 30 percent annually to $12.9
billion by 2014, Susquehanna International Group LLP
estimated in December. The portion spent on social networking
likely will double to 24 percent that year from 12 percent in
2010, according to the Pennsylvania-based firm.  China’s social-networking sites haven’t competed against
international websites since 2009, when the government banned
access to Facebook and Twitter Inc.  Internet users  can
circumvent the firewall through means such as AnchorFree Inc.’s
virtual private network service that assign an anonymous address
traceable back only to the company and not the user. Using VPNs
results in slower Internet connections.  Zuckerberg Visit  Zeng Guojun, a cosmetics salesman in Guangzhou, uses Renren
to communicate with his friends in China, and Facebook for
international news and information.  “Renren has copied most of Facebook’s features, so they
now do almost exactly the same things,” said Zeng, 29.  Zuckerberg, 26, visited Baidu and Sina offices in December,
fueling speculation Facebook is seeking increased access in
China. Facebook may "potentially" win advertising sales from
Chinese companies, Jayne Leung, head of the company’s sales
operations in Hong Kong, said in an interview yesterday.  Facebook, which claims more than 500 million users
worldwide, is valued at $63.7 billion, according to secondary
exchange SharesPost Inc.  Renren’s roots trace back to 2005, when graduates of
 Tsinghua University  in Beijing founded Xiaonei.com, or “inside
school.” That was just after Zuckerberg pitched his service to
fellow  Harvard University  students.  In 2006, Xiaonei was acquired by closely held  Oak Pacific
Interactive Corp. , which renamed the service Renren in 2009.  Softbank Stake  “The name change was a great help for us,” Li said.
“Previously, our name spoke of our background in academia. Now
we have a wider appeal.”  Advertising on Renren has more than doubled each year since
the site started selling space in 2008, Li said.  Renren has a blue-and-white user interface that resembles
Facebook and carries advertisements for Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz and China Mobile Communications Corp.’s phone service.
Renren users post messages via a dialogue box in the center of
the page and access games, applications and other options on a
menu on the left-hand side.  In 2008, Oak Pacific sold a 35 percent stake to investors
including Softbank, the Japanese mobile-phone operator headed by
billionaire Masayoshi Son, for $430 million.  Renren aims to increase user numbers through its music,
wireless and location-tracking services, Li said. The website
also aims to boost sales through Nuomi.com, an online commerce
affiliate.  600 Million Users  Kaixin001.com, with a red-and-white interface, attracted
users by focusing on browser-based online games, Chang said. Its
most popular games include “Happy Farm,” which resembles Zynga
Game Network Inc.’s “FarmVille.”  Zhang Shanshan, a public-relations manager for the Beijing-
based website, declined to disclose user figures and other
operational details.  “Kaixin001.com’s core user base is white-collar workers,
which is viewed favorably by advertisers,” said Jim Tang, a
telecommunications analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “Renren.com, because of its background in academia,
is used mostly by students.”  The similarities between those sites and Facebook
illustrate how networking sites in China are generally modeled
after the  Palo Alto , California-based company’s service, said
Sabrina Dong, an analyst at Analysys International.  Their successes are noted by some of China’s biggest Web
companies. Tencent, China’s largest Internet company by value,
last year launched the social-networking site Pengyou.com to
attract its QQ instant-messaging service users. The company says
it had 636 million QQ accounts as of Sept. 30.  Tibet, Nobel Censorship  Pengyou, or “friend,” targets “white-collar” users, a
company spokeswoman said in an e-mail.  The site will have trouble luring users from Kaixin and
Sina’s Weibo micro-blogging service, said Bill Bishop, an
independent media consultant in Beijing.  “Tencent is for the masses,” he said. “A lot of people
who use Kaixin, Weibo, don’t want to use a Tencent-sponsored
social network.”  Baidu, owner of China’s dominant search engine, said this
month it plans to develop more social-networking services.  Government censors monitor the Internet and block access to
content deemed unacceptable. Facebook users may join groups
supporting Tibet independence and  Liu Xiaobo , the jailed Chinese
dissident awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last year, yet no such
forums are found on Renren or Kaixin.  Renren plans to take advantage of those restrictions on
international rivals, Li said.  “We don’t know when Facebook will enter, and what they’ll
do, but we are confident,” Li said. “We want to be the
dominant player in social networking.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  