-- Rail's Cash-Flow King Stakes $62 Billion on Tokyo Maglev Train
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r
-- 2011-02-08T06:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/rail-s-cash-flow-king-stakes-62-billion-on-tokyo-maglev-train.html
  Central Japan Railway Co ., whose
high-speed trains carried more passengers than the world’s
largest airline last year, is staking 5.1 trillion yen ($62
billion) on building the world’s fastest train.  The company plans to fund the project, at a cost almost
eight times the $8 billion President Barack Obama is giving to
U.S. high-speed and conventional rail projects, with cash, loans
and bonds, said Kinya Tani, a spokesman for the Nagoya, Japan-
based company. JR Central will issue 5-year, 10-year and 20-year
bonds in equal amounts, according to the company.  JR Central is using the greatest free  cash flow  of any
listed rail operator to finance a  magnetic-levitation  train that
will travel between Tokyo and Nagoya, Japan’s fourth-largest
city, at a speed of 500 kilometers per hour (311 miles per hour)
when the line is completed in 2027. The  290-kilometer  link,
about the distance from New York to Baltimore, will later be
extended to Osaka, the nation’s third-largest city.  “It’s like launching a rocket into space,” said  Masayuki Kubota , who oversees the equivalent of $2.1 billion in Tokyo at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. “The first time is very expensive and
risky, but once it’s successful, it can become a big business.”  JR Central’s free cash flow, or money from operations minus  capital spending , was $2.86 billion for the 12 months ended
December. That compares with $1.6 billion at Union Pacific Corp.,
the largest U.S. railroad by sales, and $1.4 billion at CSX
Corp., the second-largest publicly traded U.S. railroad,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Floating Trains  Japan’s busiest high-speed train operator carried  138
million  passengers on its bullet trains last fiscal year,
compared with  100 million  passengers at  United Continental
Holdings Inc ., the world’s biggest airline, formed by the merger
of United and Continental airlines.  Maglev lines use magnetic power to propel trains that float
above the track. JR Central is running maglev trains on an 18-
kilometer test track west of Tokyo and is extending that line to
42 kilometers, later to be part of the full Tokyo-Nagoya line.  Once opened, the line will provide an alternative to the
high-speed train link between Tokyo and Osaka that opened in
1964, when the country hosted the  Summer Olympics . Japan’s high-
speed rail network now extends over 2,000 kilometers, stretching
from Aomori in the north to Kagoshima in the south.  ‘Big Economic Impact’  The maglev will make the trip to Nagoya from Tokyo in as
little as 40 minutes, compared with as little as 95 minutes now.
JR Central’s fastest current train travels at a maximum speed of
270 kilometers per hour between Tokyo and  Osaka .  “By providing a rapid transportation service between key
cities, it will have a big economic impact,” said Yasuhiro Matsumoto, an analyst in Tokyo at Shinsei Securities Co. “What
matters is whether they will be able to afford it.”  The train operator’s free cash flow has exceeded 160
billion yen, or $2 billion, for each of the past 10 years.  The company fell 0.1 percent to 717,000 yen at the 3 p.m.
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It has advanced 8 percent in
the past year, compared with a 6.9 percent gain in the Nikkei
225 Stock Average.  JR Central, rated Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
same as the Japanese government, predicts it may pay 3 percent
interest on bonds as Japanese  interest rates  increase over the
life of the project. The company sold 20-year bonds with a 1.797
percent coupon in October.  The train operator had  3.1 trillion yen  in interest-bearing
debt at the end of March and has said it plans to ensure total
debt doesn’t exceed 5 trillion yen. The company’s debt peaked at
5.5 trillion yen in fiscal 1991.  Shrinking Population  Japan’s aging population is shrinking from a peak of 127.8
million in 2004, raising concerns about the need for a second
high-speed line linking Tokyo and Nagoya.  “The question is, do you really need that train?” said
Edwin Merner, president of Atlantis Investment Research Corp. in
Tokyo, which manages about $3 billion in assets. “If your
population is going to shrink and you’re going to have fewer
users, why would you build a new line?”  JR Central predicts a maglev service will help persuade
people to fly less. Japan’s bullet trains already carry more
domestic passengers each year than All Nippon Airways Co., Japan
Airlines Corp. and all other Japanese carriers combined.  High-speed train passengers totaled  289 million  last fiscal
year, compared with  84 million  flyers in 2009, according to the
most recent figures from Japan’s transport ministry.  High-speed trains remain a tough sell in the U.S. even with
federal money, said Jeff Straebler, a fixed-income strategist at
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . New governors in
Wisconsin and  Ohio  canceled high-speed rail projects and
returned $1.2 billion to the U.S. Department of Transportation
amid worries the lines may lose money.  Washington-Baltimore Line  JR Central is also targeting a maglev  link  between
Washington and Baltimore. A line may cost $5.8 billion and cut
the 40-mile journey to 18 minutes, and could be extended to  New
York  and  Boston , according to a Maryland Department of
Transportation-backed group promoting the project.  “There are not that many places where high-speed rail
makes sense,” Straebler said. “The most obvious is the
Washington, D.C.-to-Boston corridor.”    Amtrak , which is supported by U.S. taxpayers, runs the
Acela Express, the only high-speed train in the U.S., between
Washington and Boston. The route had  3.2 million passengers  in
the year ended September 2010, according to the rail operator.  The Washington-based company lost  $1.3 billion  in that
period and has lost at least $1 billion a year for 10 years. In
comparison, JR Central has made at least $500 million annually
for the past 10 years and had net income of 92 billion yen in
the year ended March 31.  “They have a cash-cow business,” said Mana Nakazora,
chief credit analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in
Tokyo. “Their cash flow should be sufficient to pay for the
project.”  To contact the reporter on this story:  Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  