-- Treasuries Drop on Reduced Foreign Central Bank Bid at 3-Year Note Auction
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2011-02-08T22:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/treasuries-fall-after-3-year-note-sale-attracts-reduced-foreign-demand.html
Treasuries fell after the sale of $32
billion of three-year debt, the first of three U.S. securities
sales, drew the lowest demand in the category of bidders that
includes foreign central banks since May 2007.  Ten-year note yields rose to the most since April before
Treasury sells $24 billion in 10-year notes tomorrow and $16
billion in 30-year bonds the following day. An unexpected drop
in U.S. unemployment Feb. 4 and measure of small business
confidence rose, adding to evidence the economy is accelerating.
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  testifies tomorrow
before the House Budget Committee amid speculation about how the
central bank will pull back from its debt-buying to bolster the  U.S. economy .  “The assumption is if the three-year can’t go well, then
people are readjusting their positions and their outlook for the
Fed,” said  Michael Franzese , managing director and head of
Treasury trading at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in New York.
“The Fed may be more aggressive in tightening.”  The yield on the existing three-year note rose 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 1.36 percent at 5:01 p.m.
in New York, according to BGCantor Market Data. The yield has
risen for a seven straight days, the longest streak since
December 2009. The price of the 1 percent security maturing in
January 2014 fell 10/32, or $3.13 per $1,000 of face value, to
98 31/32. Two-year notes rose nine basis points to 0.85 percent,
the highest since June 3.  Note Yields  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes rose 11 basis points to
3.74 percent, the most since April 30. The yield touched a 2010
high of 4 percent in April and a low of 2.33 percent in October.  “The trading range for the U.S. 10-year is likely to hold
for a while,”  Anthony Crescenzi , a bond strategist at  Newport
Beach , California-based Pacific Investment Management Co., which
operates the world’s biggest bond fund, wrote in a note to
clients. “Only when it is clear that U.S. employment growth is
strong enough to produce a self-reinforcing virtuous cycle of
increases in production, income, and spending will a breach
above 4 percent be sustained.”  Labor Department data on Feb. 4 showed the jobless rate
fell to 9 percent last month and employers added 36,000 jobs,
less than forecast.  Fed Views  Fed Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said the
quickening U.S. recovery means policy makers need to take
“quite seriously” their commitment to review the $600 billion
monetary-stimulus program.  “The distinct improvement in the economic outlook since
the program was initiated suggests taking that re-evaluation
quite seriously,” Lacker said today in a speech in  Newark ,  Delaware .  Fed Bank of  Dallas  President  Richard Fisher  said he’s
“very wary” of further expansion of the central bank’s balance
sheet and that he’ll probably vote against any proposal to do
so.  “Barring some unexpected shock to the economy or financial
system, I think we are pushing the envelope with the current
round of Treasury purchases,” Fisher, who votes this year on
the policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee , said in the
text of remarks in Dallas today.  Note Bids  The 3-year note auction drew a yield of 1.349 percent,
compared with a forecast of 1.345 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of 8 of the Fed’s 20 primary dealers. The yield was the
highest since the government sold $38 billion of the securities
in May at 1.414 percent. The last sale of three-year notes, on
Jan. 11, drew a yield of 1.027 percent.  Indirect bidders at the three-year auction, a class of
investors that includes foreign central banks, bought 27.6
percent of the notes, less than 39.4 percent in January.  The
average for the past 10 sales is 41.3 percent.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the 3-year note sale, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.01, compared with an average of 3.15
for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 10.1 percent of
the debt, compared with 16.2 percent last month and a 10-sale
average of 14.5.  ‘Market Is Defensive’  “With no aggressive front-end bid, where it usually shows
up, the market is defensive going into the rest of the week’s
auctions,” said  Thomas Tucci , managing director and head of
rates trading at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  New York , a
primary dealer. “The general expectation is that rates will
gradually shift higher.”  The 10-year yield will advance to 3.81 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of banks and securities
companies with the most recent forecasts given the heaviest
weightings.  Three-year notes returned 4.1 percent in 2010, compared
with 5.9 percent for the overall Treasury market, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The Fed bought $2.2 billion in Treasuries maturing between
August 2028 and May 2040 today as part of its $600 billion plan
to bolster the economy, its second round of the policy know as
quantitative easing, or QE2.  “The market seems to be indicating that if QE2 works, it
will be inflationary and if it doesn’t, then it will have lost
the biggest buyer and supporter of Treasuries to reside in this
country,”  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income capital
markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , wrote in a note to clients.  Confidence among U.S. small companies, which are
responsible for creating about 65 percent of all jobs, rose in
January to the highest level in three years, according to the
National Federation of Independent Business optimism Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  