-- Rich Take From Poor as U.S. Subsidy Law Funds Luxury Hotels
-- B y   D a v i d   D i e t z
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/rich-taking-from-poor-as-10-billion-u-s-subsidy-law-funds-luxury-hotels.html
The landmark Blackstone Hotel in
downtown Chicago, which has hosted 12 U.S. presidents, opened in
2008 after a two-year, $116 million renovation. Inside the Beaux
Arts structure, built in 1910, buffed marble staircases greet
guests spending up to $699 a night for rooms with views of  Lake
Michigan .  What’s surprising isn’t the opulent makeover: It’s how the
project was financed. The work was subsidized by a federal
development program intended to help poor communities.  The biggest beneficiary of taxpayer help for the Blackstone
revamp was  Prudential Financial Inc ., the second-largest U.S.
life insurer. The company got $15.6 million in tax credits from
the U.S. Department of the Treasury for helping to fund the
project, according to Chicago city records, Bloomberg Markets
magazine reports in its March issue.    JPMorgan Chase & Co ., the second-largest  U.S. bank  by
assets, also took in money by serving as a lender and the
monitor of Blackstone construction financing, city records show.  Since 2003, some of the world’s biggest financial
companies, including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc ., U.S. Bancorp,
JPMorgan Chase and Prudential, have taken advantage of a federal
subsidy that will cost taxpayers $10.1 billion -- and most of
the public has never heard of it.  Investors have used the program, called New Markets Tax
Credits, to help build more than 300 upscale projects, including
hotels, condominiums, office buildings and a car museum, on
streets far from poverty, according to Treasury Department
records released through a federal Freedom of Information Act
request.  Against Intent  Money spent on high-end development could have been used to
build more than 1,000 job-training centers, medical clinics and
schools. The program, endorsed by Republican Senator Rick Santorum and House Speaker Dennis Hastert and adopted by
Congress, was signed into law by President  Bill Clinton  in 2000.  Building high-end commercial projects goes against the
intent of the New Markets program, says Cliff Kellogg, a former
senior policy adviser at the Treasury Department who helped
design New Markets.  “Things like luxury hotels are entirely contrary to what
we set out to do,” says Kellogg, who’s now a bank consultant.
“Some hotels may create jobs and spur other nearby investment,
but you have to ask if these projects prevent worthwhile ones
from getting done.”  Some of the subsidized luxury projects may not have
required federal aid at all, the  Government Accountability
Office  found in a 2010 study.  ‘Severe Pressure’  “This underscores the need to ensure the program is
operating as efficiently as possible at a time when the
government is under severe pressure to address the growing
federal budget deficit,” says Michael Brostek, GAO’s tax issues
director.  The Blackstone adjoins Chicago’s cultural hub, one of the
most vibrant in the nation, and is miles from the city’s
neediest neighborhoods. Prudential invested $9.3 million and
made $30.4 million in loans, according to  Chicago  records.  Under  New Markets  rules, firms get a credit of 39 cents on
the dollar, paid over seven years, for cash or loans they put
in. For its contribution, Prudential collected $15.6 million in
credits, according to a July 2008 JPMorgan project oversight
report filed with Chicago.  Prudential spokesman Simon Locke declines to answer
specific questions about the Blackstone project.  ‘Help the Community’  “We do not comment on individual transactions or discuss
our clients,” Locke says.  JPMorgan spokesman Tom Kelly also declines to discuss
specifics.  “We think these projects help the community,” Kelly says.
The Blackstone says it hired more than 200 workers when it
opened in 2008.  Clinton regarded New Markets as a way to spur development
and create jobs in communities held back by high unemployment
and lagging business growth. He touted the program on a six-
state tour in 1999.  “This is a good business opportunity here,” he said at a
cabinet factory in Clarksdale, a Mississippi Delta town with a
per capita income of $12,611. “If we can’t fully develop the
Delta now, with the strongest economy, when will we get around
to it?”  Clarksdale has received no benefit from the tax credit
program, Treasury Department records show.  President  Barack Obama  has endorsed New Markets to help
ease the effects of the longest recession since the Great
Depression and proposes increasing the tax credits. In December,
Congress extended the program for two more years.  How It Works  The Treasury  controls who gets tax credits money and how
the subsidies can be used.  The agency bases decisions on  census tracts , which are
supposed to have common economic standards. Only tracts with at
least a 20 percent poverty rate or with a population earning 20
percent less than the median family income of the surrounding
metropolitan area qualify for subsidized projects.  The numbers are from the 2000 census. The 2010 count hasn’t
yet been used.  The 15-block tract that’s home to the renovated Blackstone
-- census No. 3206 -- qualifies because it had an individual
poverty rate of 26 percent in 2000. A closer look at the
demographics tells a different story and shows how investors can
game the system, says Janet Smith, who lives in the Blackstone
tract and teaches urban planning at the  University of Illinois 
at Chicago.  Student Population  The tract’s New Markets poverty qualifications don’t
reflect gentrification that has been going on in the
neighborhood and the broader  South Loop  region since the 1980s,
Smith says.  The poverty profile reflects the large number of students
who attend two schools -- Columbia College Chicago and Roosevelt
University -- in the area, she says. Among families, the poverty
rate is just 3.9 percent, according to the census.  The tract already had a major hotel -- the Hilton Chicago
across the street -- before the  Blackstone  reopened. It also had
a high-rise condominium, with units selling this year for up to
$1.3 million. And it includes a chunk of Grant Park -- designed
by celebrated urban architect Daniel Burnham -- where Obama
celebrated his 2008 election victory.  “I wouldn’t say this is a needy tract by any means,”
Smith says. “You have to make a distinction between family-
level poverty and individual-level poverty. The problem with a
subsidy program like this is that we give away money where we
don’t really need to and usually in markets where development is
already there.”  Truer Picture  It’s common for a tract to have diverging  poverty rates  for
individuals and families, Smith says. Accounting for both
measurements yields a truer picture of whether a tract needs New
Markets help, she says.  The program’s standards open up some of the nation’s
wealthiest areas to development, according to Treasury records.
Taxpayers have subsidized projects in tracts with median family
incomes as high as $200,000, records show.  A total of $7.4 billion of the $16 billion already spent
under New Markets, or 46 percent, has gone to tracts with family
poverty levels ranging from zero to 19 percent, Treasury and
census data show. Those communities include areas of  California ’s technology-rich  Silicon Valley .  The program’s definition of poverty tracts --which include
just individual rates -- show that $3.6 billion, or 23 percent,
went to areas with less than a 20 percent rate. Those tracts
qualify under other eligibility criteria, primarily low median
family incomes, says New Markets spokesman William Luecht.  ‘Cherry-Picking’  “The way the rules are written, it’s allowing a kind of
cherry-picking by financial institutions to find favorable
census tracts,” says Virginia Parks, a social services
professor at the University of Chicago. “It’s so easy to
qualify that all you need to do is hire a good demographer. It’s
not rocket science.”  Scores of New Markets projects have benefited poor
communities. The program has helped develop job-training
centers, charter schools and housing in severely impoverished
locations stretching from the Watts section of  Los Angeles  to
Appalachia in  Kentucky  and other states.  From 2003 to 2008, 25 percent of project investments, or
$3.9 billion, went to tracts with family poverty rates above 30
percent, according to Treasury and census records. Using
individual rates alone, Treasury calculates that figure as 49
percent, Luecht says.  ‘Feel Good’  “Many desperately needy communities for the first time
have gotten access to capital and technical advice,” says
University of Michigan law professor Michael Barr, a former
assistant Treasury secretary who was the program’s chief
developer. “We feel good about that.”  Goldman has used New Markets to build an affordable-housing
project with shops and a community center in what had been
Brooklyn’s run-down Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood.  U.S. Bancorp helped create 1,300 jobs in financially
distressed Dubuque, Iowa, by converting a former department
store into a service center for  International Business Machines
Corp .  Goldman targeted tracts on the upswing in Pittsburgh and  Portland ,  Oregon , when the firm got its first New Markets
investment authorizations in 2002. In Pittsburgh, $30.5 million
of a $75 million Goldman investment authorization went to a
shopping center in the East Liberty neighborhood.  The mall’s tract was in the midst of recovery with city
renewal efforts that had already helped lure a  Whole Foods
Market Inc . grocery store.  Fees: $9 Million  Goldman brought in  PNC Financial Services Group Inc ., the
sixth-largest U.S. bank by deposits, to help finance the
project. PNC invested $30.5 million in equity and loans to
receive $11.9 million in tax credits. The subsidy was $1.3
million more than PNC’s cash investment of $10.6 million.  Banks, lawyers and consultants took fees totaling $9
million -- 28 percent of the total project cost of $32.7
million, according to city records. Goldman’s share, for
overseeing the project’s finances, will be $1.6 million over
eight years, according to Goldman spokesman Stephen Cohen.  The tract had an individual poverty rate of 20 percent as
of 2000, just enough to qualify. Family poverty was at 10
percent.  Cathy Niederberger, PNC managing director of community
development banking, says the shopping center boosted the
neighborhood’s economy.  ‘Created Employment’  “The nature of the development has attracted shoppers and
created employment,” she says.  Goldman’s Cohen says the project was among the few that
seemed suitable to the firm at a time when New Markets had just
begun. Now, he says, Goldman is putting hundreds of millions of
dollars of its own money into New Markets developments in what
it calls highly distressed neighborhoods.  Prudential has used the New Markets program to finance two
luxury hotels. Along with the Blackstone, the company in 2008
helped build the Nines in Portland, Oregon, bringing the firm
$27.3 million in tax credits, according to Portland records. A
Travel & Leisure magazine guide ranked the Nines 25th among
North American hotels in 2010.  Prudential spokesman Locke declines to comment on the
Nines. He says his firm no longer owns the Portland tax credits.
He declines to elaborate.  Prudential first invested in the 17-story Blackstone in
2005. The building sits on South Michigan Avenue, four blocks
from the  Art Institute of Chicago , which is the largest fine art
U.S. museum after  New York ’s Metropolitan Museum of Art, and
Symphony Center, home to the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.  ‘Hard To Say’  The Art Institute, located just outside Blackstone’s census
tract, draws nearly 2 million visitors a year.  “It’d be hard to say that a luxury hotel in downtown
Chicago is in an impoverished community,” says U.S.
Representative Jan Schakowsky, an Illinois Democrat. “Lots and
lots of public dollars have gone into a project that I’m
assuming can make companies a lot of money.”  Prudential collected the Blackstone tax credits through a
deal with hotel developer Sage Hospitality Resources Co. of
Denver.  Sage , which had partnered with Prudential in the Nines
project, bought the Blackstone, which had been vacant, in 2005.  The developer put a $42 million New Markets award toward
reopening the landmark. Sage, Prudential, JPMorgan and the city
of Chicago provided $134.5 million for the purchase and
renovation.  JPMorgan Oversight  JPMorgan lent the hotel $26.1 million, according to city
records. The firm also oversaw project finances and shared in $5
million in fees paid from project funds, records show.  Sage Senior Vice President Kenneth Geist declined to
comment.  Three miles (5 kilometers) west of the Blackstone, there
are no hotels, banks or supermarkets in a census tract in the
Kendrie Avenue neighborhood on Chicago’s West Side. Area
unemployment there was 35 percent in 2000. The neighborhood,
dotted with abandoned homes and trash-strewn lots, languishes
without money from New Markets.  “Yes, I’m angry,” says Larry Dowling, pastor at St.
Agatha, a Roman Catholic parish in the neighborhood. “It was
very disturbing to hear that the Blackstone was benefiting from
this program. There’s a great need in this community for
economic development and jobs.”  In  Tacoma, Washington , investors found a way to get New
Markets handouts in an area with just a 1 percent family poverty
rate. U.S. Bancorp and two other investors used a $34 million
Treasury authorization in 2010 to finance construction of an
antique car museum.  Around the Rules  The museum , which will house the private collection of
Harold E. LeMay, a deceased trash-hauling tycoon, needed
creative financing to fit New Markets rules.  Companies that operate mostly by exhibiting art or other
items don’t qualify for New Markets. So the car museum, which
was backed by the city of Tacoma and the LeMay family, wouldn’t
have been allowed.  To get around the restriction, Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp and its partners set up a related company in 2010 to
acquire the assets from the museum and then lease back the
property. The new company, America’s Car Museum, qualified
because a loophole in the rules allows galleries to get New
Markets money by using affiliated corporations.  The maneuver allowed U.S. Bancorp, which invested a total
of $34 million in cash or loans with development partners, to
win $13.3 million in tax credits.  ‘Bunch of Garbage’  As a result of the deal, federal taxpayers will pick up 39
percent of the cost of erecting a $34 million shrine housing 500
of LeMay’s cars in a mostly commercial tract with a 24 percent
individual poverty rate.  Michael Engel, who manages a Veterans of Foreign Wars hall
six blocks from the proposed museum, says the federal subsidy is
a wasteful public gift to a wealthy family that can afford to
finance most of the development.  “It’s a bunch of garbage,” he says. “I don’t think it’s
right.”  New York-based nonprofit  National Development Council ;
Trammel Crow Co., a subsidiary of  CB Richard Ellis Group Inc . of
Los Angeles, the world’s biggest real-estate-services firm; and
U.S. Bancorp put the deal together, project records show.  Those investors collected a total of $1.5 million in fees
from the project, according to the records. In addition, Trammel
Crow and the council are scheduled to get $665,400 in future
fees for monitoring finances.  ‘Skimming Off the Top’  Museum booster Karl Anderson, chairman of  Concrete
Technology Corp.  of Tacoma, says the facility, when it opens
later in 2011, will aid the city’s economy by creating 90
permanent jobs and drawing 450,000 visitors a year. Still, he
says, he believes the project got shortchanged because investors
such as Trammel Crow charged too much.  “I’ve been upset about the skimming off the top,” he
says. “The investors have been able to rake off these big
fees.”  U.S. Bancorp spokeswoman Lisa Clark says the museum will
bring $34 million in spending to Tacoma. Trammel Crow
spokeswoman Cynthia Langhorst declines to comment. John Finke,
senior Western region director for the National Development
Council, says Tacoma needs the museum for the  tax revenue .  “As someone who has spent 30 years working in Tacoma, I
can tell you that the city has struggled to attract and retain
businesses,” he says.  Historic Armory  In Portland, Oregon, Goldman and U.S. Bancorp partnered
with city government on another cultural development helped by
New Markets. In 2004, the Portland Development Commission was
advocating conversion of a historic armory into a nonprofit
theater, and the project caught Goldman’s eye, according to city
records.  The armory, which housed horses and cannons in the 19th
century, sat in the city’s Pearl District, a former industrial
area enjoying a resurgence with upscale stores and housing. The
tract qualified with a 41 percent individual poverty rate
because it included one poor neighborhood on its fringe. The
family poverty rate was 11 percent.  Goldman arranged $28 million in New Markets financing for
the theater. U.S. Bancorp put $8.4 million into construction and
loaned an additional $11 million. That allowed it to win $10.9
million in tax credits, city records show.  Goldman will collect a fee of $1.4 million for tracking
finances for the government, according to Goldman spokesman
Cohen.  ‘It’s Ludicrous’  The 599-seat  Gerding Theater  opened in 2006. The League of
Women Voters in Portland assails the use of federal tax
subsidies.  “It’s ludicrous,” says Shelley Lorenzen, a former League
of Women Voters board member who has studied Portland urban
renewal. “The area has become kind of the hottest real-estate
market in town, with the best restaurants, art galleries and
very high-end condos.”  Kellogg, the former Treasury official who helped structure
the subsidy plan, says New Markets needs changes. It should
divert money away from projects such as high-end hotels and
exhibit halls, he says. New Markets should target small-business
development in regions that truly need a lift, Kellogg says.
After all, he says, that was the point from the start.  Editors: Jonathan Neumann, Gail Roche  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Dietz in  San Francisco  at 
 ddietz1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Neumann at   jneumann2@bloomberg.net  