-- Rich Get Richer When Governments Tout Austerity: Matthew Lynn
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 2011-02-08T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/rich-get-richer-as-governments-tout-austerity-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
Remember all that stuff about how the
credit crunch was going to usher in a new age of austerity? The
financial industry would shrink; the gulf between the haves and
the have-nots would close; and taxes would rise for the top
earners, forcing them to contribute more to society.  Well, guess what? It didn’t happen.  In fact, we just had a “rich-get-richer” recession. U.K.
data suggest the gap between the wealthy and the poor has
widened. We can give up any idea that it is going to close by
itself. The government usually bails out the rich; the wages
that the highly skilled can command are rising all the time; and
globalization means the well-off increasingly occupy a whole
different economy than the rest of the country they live in.  While the U.K. economy as a whole may be struggling, people
at the top end of the income range are doing surprisingly well.  A report last week by HSBC Holdings Plc, drawing on a
YouGov Plc survey, concluded that the richest British households
-- defined as those earning 100,000 pounds ($161,000) a year or
more -- planned to increase their spending by 7.8 percent this
year, even though some of that will be financed by saving less.
Not much sign of austerity there.  The ordinary British family isn’t doing so well. The median
pay increase was 2.2 percent in the last three months, less than
inflation, which is running at 3.7 percent. In effect, the
average person is getting poorer in real terms -- but those at
the top are doing fine.  Wealthy  London   London, by far the wealthiest region of the U.K., came
through the recession in better shape than the rest of the
country, according to  Henry Overman , the director of the Spatial
Economics Research Centre at the  London School of Economics .  “It’s simply not a middle-class recession and a greater
representation of the middle class is in the south east of  England ,” he said in a lecture last month.  Incomes and jobs suffered less in London than the rest of
the country. House prices did better and kept on soaring at the
top end of the market. Prime London properties rose 5 percent in
the past year, according to Savills Plc. But average  house
prices  fell.  Of course, inequality has been rising for some time. In the
U.K., the  Gini coefficient , a widely used measure of disparity
in incomes, rose from 28 percent in 1983 to 34 percent in
2008/9, according to the  Office for National Statistics . A score
of 1 means incomes are evenly distributed, while 100 means just
one person holds all of a nation’s wealth. Since 2005, it has
been relatively stable. Now inequality is rising again.  Tax Cuts  What’s true of the U.K. is probably true of most of the
developed world. There’s nothing very unique about the British
economy. In the U.S., the tax cuts introduced by President  George W. Bush  favored the rich. Wall Street pay has recovered
fast, while average hourly earnings for ordinary workers rose
only 1.9 percent last year. It’s a fair bet the same trends are
evident everywhere.  That poses the question of whether the rich can just keep
on getting wealthier than everyone else. Here’s why they will.  First, the bailouts just help the wealthy. Governments used
to subsidize manufacturing industries. Now they rescue the
banking industry, where most of the wealthy work. Central banks
use quantitative easing to try and revive the economy. Yet that
mainly works by boosting asset and commodity prices. If you
invest in hedge funds trading oil futures, you’ll have done well
from QE. If you are just the average guy who pays more to fill
up the fuel tank of your car, then you’re the loser. In effect,
banking bailouts and QE use the state to help mostly the rich.  Vital Skills  Second, the premium attached to education keeps growing.
One feature of all modern economies is that they favor the
highly skilled over others. That’s why the rich are pulling away
from the rest of society. If anything, the recession seems to
have exacerbated that. When times are hard, public-sector,
manufacturing and low-skilled service jobs are hit hardest. The
more vital your skill, the more likely you are to be employed.  Third, globalization has allowed the very rich to
increasingly cut themselves adrift from national economies.
London’s bankers, lawyers and consultants are as much a part of
the emerging-markets boom as they are of the U.K. economy,
possibly more so. They arrange initial public offerings for
Russian mining companies and restructure debt for Dubai property
empires. What happens in the U.K. doesn’t make much difference
to them. The same is true for the professionals working in most
major business centers.  Some of those trends we can’t do much about. Some we can:
We don’t need to bail out banks. And we don’t have to boost the
economy by helping asset prices.  It was a nice idea that the credit crunch would narrow the
widening inequalities that are opening up everywhere. But it
hasn’t happened. Instead, societies will need to ask the
question: Are we really comfortable with the huge gap between
rich and poor? It won’t close by itself.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  