-- Rio to Spend $1.2 Billion on Australia, Canada Ore Expansions
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2011-02-08T15:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/rio-tinto-approves-933-million-extension-of-marandoo.html
  Rio Tinto  Group, the world’s third-
largest mining company, approved $1.2 billion of expansions at
iron ore operations in Australia and Canada to boost output of
the steelmaking raw material as prices rise.  Rio will spend $933 million to expand the Marandoo mine in
the Pilbara region of Western Australia state, extending the
life of the mine by 16 years to 2030, the London-based company
said today in a statement. A $277 million expansion at its Iron
Ore Co. of Canada unit was also approved, Rio said separately.  Brazil’s  Vale SA , Rio Tinto and  BHP Billiton Ltd ., the
world’s biggest iron ore exporters, are investing in growth to
meet recovering demand for steel that’s pushed up prices of iron
ore and coking coal, key materials used to make the alloy. The
spot price of  iron ore  delivered to China, the biggest buyer,
has risen 9.2 percent this year and may jump to a record $250 a
metric ton next quarter, according to Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Global seaborne iron ore demand is projected to increase
substantially over the next decade,”  Sam Walsh , chief executive
officer of Rio’s iron ore unit, said in a statement.  The expansion at Iron Ore Co. of Canada will boost output
of concentrate 40 percent to 26 million tons a year, Rio said.
The Marandoo mine will maintain its current production rate at
15 million tons a year, it said.  Rio said in November it was planning an expansion of its
iron ore operations in Western  Australia  that may cost $14.8
billion, to boost output by 50 percent over five years.  Iron ore is Rio’s most profitable unit, responsible for 47
percent of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  