-- Risky Bets on War Zones Bring Rich Returns for Phone Companies
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2011-02-08T21:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/risky-bets-on-war-zones-bring-rich-returns-for-phone-companies.html
Emad Makiya, chief executive officer
of Zain’s Iraqi unit, has had to contend with suicide bombings,
kidnappings, curfews and a network sometimes jammed by U.S.-led
forces to prevent insurgents from communicating.  That isn’t stopping Zain, Kuwait’s largest phone company,
from investing as much as $300 million in  Iraq  this year after
spending $4.5 billion there since 2003, he said. With about 12
million subscribers, the unit is Zain’s biggest by sales and was
behind only Kuwait in profit in the third quarter.  “We’re willing to invest more, to expand more,” Makiya,
based in  Baghdad , said in an interview. “We want to cover every
village in Iraq.”  Undeterred by the dangers, Zain,  France Telecom SA  and
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. are expanding in some of the
world’s most hostile environments, from Iraq and  Afghanistan  to
the Democratic Republic of Congo. South Africa’s  MTN Group Ltd .,
Swedish-controlled Millicom International Cellular SA and
Egyptian-Italian group Wind Telecom SpA are also betting the
rewards in war zones outweigh the risks as making money from
more-stable markets gets tougher.  Intensifying competition in many emerging markets has made
them less lucrative. The average revenue per user in  India  at
the country’s biggest operator,  Bharti Airtel Ltd ., was $4.40 in
the third quarter, while Zain’s ARPU in Iraq was $11.  Egypt Woes  Politically unstable regions can put phone companies in
tricky spots, with the importance of mobile networks in 
organizing opposition making them targets of government 
crackdowns.  During the protests against Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , local services of  Vodafone Group Plc  and France Telecom
were blocked. The companies complained after they were ordered
by the government to send  text messages  on their networks
supporting the regime.  In the  Ivory Coast , where a standoff between presidential
candidates is threatening to set off a civil war, France Telecom
evacuated expatriate staff and cut store opening hours. In
Niger, it had to suspend visits by outside experts and limit the
movements of local staff after two French citizens were killed
by a group with links to al-Qaeda last month.  These troubles aren’t stopping France Telecom from seeking
out other risky places to do business. It’s in talks to buy a
stake in Iraq’s Korek Telecom, which has a nationwide license.  “Whenever we see a country where the penetration rate
hasn’t yet reached high levels and where there’s potential to
expand mobile use, we will look at it,” Marc Rennard,  France
Telecom ’s head of African and Middle East operations, said in an
interview. “The security situation is important of course, but
it’s usually manageable.”  Dramatic Growth  Operating beyond the more stable north in Iraq requires
armed guards and concrete barriers at network sites, along with
“100 percent” reliance on electric generators that can give
out in the summer heat and can’t be re-oiled during night
curfews, Zain’s Makiya said.  Still, growth can be dramatic for the companies that brave
tough markets. Millicom, which has had to evacuate staff in
Chad, almost doubled its subscriber base there to 1 million
between 2008 and 2009. In the Democratic Republic of Congo,
Millicom subscribers rose 44 percent in that period to about 1.5
million. In contrast, revenue in  Sweden  fell 3.2 percent at  Tele2 AB , the Stockholm-based operator that shares its largest
investor with Millicom.  “Sooner or later, even the most unstable countries settle
down, and then you can have an established brand and established
relationships with the government,” said Pervez Ghauri, a
professor of international business at King’s College,  London .  Taliban Threats  Afghanistan presents operators with one of their toughest
challenges. MTN and Emirates Telecommunications, known as
Etisalat, compete with Roshan, an operator part-owned by  TeliaSonera AB  and Cable & Wireless Worldwide Plc, in
Afghanistan, where Taliban militants force phone companies to
shut down some relay towers at night to prevent residents from
passing on tips to NATO forces.  Etisalat shuts down “10 or 20 percent of our total sites”
nightly because of Taliban pressure, Afghan unit CEO Saeed Al
Hamli said. MTN and Roshan have also shut down phone towers
after threats of violence.  Militants, though, also need their phones to work.  “Rebel and insurgent groups depend on mobile phones to
communicate like everyone else, so they are reluctant to do
anything that would impact the network,” France Telecom’s
Rennard said.  Virgin Territory  That still leaves old-fashioned criminality as a risk to
operators. Four MTN employees were killed in Nigeria, along with
two police officers, in September in a suspected carjacking.
Telkom South Africa Ltd.’s Nigerian unit has also had to become
familiar with an unpleasant tactic: thieves cutting fibre-optic
cables to cause a network outage, and then robbing the repair
crew at gunpoint, acting CEO Jeffrey Hedberg said last year.  In Iraq, the price of doing business has been high.  “We’ve been through bombings, kidnappings,” Zain’s Makiya
said. “We lost people, back in 2006 and 2007.”  Zain wants to add 1.5 million subscribers in Iraq this
year, introduce pre-paid BlackBerrys from  Research In Motion
Ltd . and boost coverage to 90 percent of the country.  “It’s the most virgin telecom territory on the face of the
earth,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona Macdonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net . 