-- U.K. Royal Family Rules Prince William Nuptials Won't Be Broadcast in 3-D
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2011-02-08T19:21:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/royal-family-rules-out-3-d-for-prince-william-nuptials.html
The wedding of Prince William and  Kate Middleton  won’t be broadcast in 3-D, after the U.K. royal
family rejected any plans to use the technology inside
Westminster Abbey.  “We decided not to progress with 3-D coverage, most
notably because of the additional camera footprint in the
abbey,” a spokeswoman for the family said. Also considered was
the “relatively small, albeit growing audience for 3-D and our
desire to not be distracted away from negotiating and
facilitating the optimal 2-D, radio, photographic and online
coverage of the day.”    British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc , the pay-TV provider
controlled by  Rupert Murdoch , had been negotiating with royal
officials. The talks, which involved the British Broadcasting
Corp., included shooting the event in 3-D and transmitting it to
cinemas, people familiar with the matter had said. Other parts
of the festivities may still be shot in 3-D, Sky News said today
in an e-mailed statement.  The three-dimensional plan drew interest from cinema chains
including U.K. operators  Cineworld Group Plc  and  Vue
Entertainment Ltd.  BSkyB, which started a 3-D television channel
last year, confirmed the wedding would not be shot with the
technology.  “Naturally, Sky News is disappointed,” Charlotte Reed, a
publicist for Sky News, said in the statement. “We are however
still exploring ideas on how we might cover the rest of the
event in 3-D.”  The engagement of William -- son of Prince Charles and the
late Diana, Princess of Wales -- was announced on Nov. 16.
William, second in line to the throne, has been dating Middleton
since 2003. The wedding is scheduled for April 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in  London  at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at   vroot@bloomberg.net . 