-- Ruble Ends Five-Day Rally as Traders Say Central Bank Halting Appreciation
-- B y   E m m a   O ’ B r i e n
-- 2011-02-08T15:26:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ruble-ends-five-day-rally-as-traders-say-central-bank-halting-appreciation.html
The ruble snapped its longest rally
this year against the central bank’s target dollar-euro basket
amid speculation policy makers are acting to stop the currency’s
appreciation.    Russia ’s currency weakened for the first day in six,
slipping 0.2 percent to 34.0621 versus the basket, which is used
by Bank Rossii to temper swings in the ruble that disadvantage
exporters. It had gained 2.2 percent in the previous five days,
and climbed 1.5 percent last week.  Policy makers buy and sell foreign currency to keep the
ruble within a so-called “trading corridor,” which has spanned
33 to 37 against the basket since the beginning of the year,
First Deputy Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said last week. The
central bank bought $815 million of dollars and euros to arrest
the ruble’s gains in January, the first month it has purchased
foreign currency since August,  data  published yesterday showed.  “It’s clear that 34 is a level where they buy,” Alexei Moiseev, chief economist in Moscow at VTB Capital, the
investment banking arm of Russia’s second-largest lender, and a
former economist with Bank Rossii’s capital controls department,
said by e-mail, citing the VTB’s traders. “They have semi-
automatic trading set up.”  Bank Rossii has a policy of not commenting on its day-to-
day activities in the  currency market .  The ruble weakened 0.5 percent to 39.91 per euro by the 5
p.m. close of trading in Moscow, and gained 0.3 percent to
29.2775 per dollar, the strongest since April 30. The basket
rate is calculated by multiplying the dollar-ruble rate by 0.55,
the euro-ruble rate by 0.45, then adding them together.  Inflows  The 4.4 percent gain so far this year in the price of  Brent
crude , the oil type that prices for Russia’s Urals blend are
based on, is encouraging inflows of capital in to Russia and
supporting the ruble, Dmitry Polevoy, economist for Russia and  Kazakhstan  at ING Groep NV in Moscow, wrote in a research note
e-mailed today.  Brent has gained 3.7 percent to $98.81 a barrel in the past
two weeks amid fears political tension in  Egypt , where
protesters have called for the resignation of President  Hosni Mubarak , will spread to other Middle Eastern countries,
potentially disrupting energy supplies.  The ruble has climbed 5 percent against the dollar over the
past three months, the best performer among the 25 emerging
market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “The ruble is king,” analysts at VTB Capital wrote in a
client note e-mailed today.  ‘Currency War’  Policy makers in other developing nations are acting to
prevent gains in their currencies with  South Africa ’s central
bank intervening to tackle the strengthening rand and  Brazil 
boosting a tax on foreign investors’ purchases of fixed-income
securities in a bid to reduce the appeal of real-denominated
assets. Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said in October
the nation is the victim of a “currency war” where nations try
to competitively devalue their exchange rates to bolster
exports.  Should the ruble break through the 33 ruble boundary of the
corridor it would signal that Bank Rossii has chosen a policy of
currency appreciation to combat accelerating inflation,
according to Johannesberg-based Tradition Analytics. Russian
inflation hit a 15-month high of 9.6 percent in January. A
stronger currency brings down the prices on imported goods.  The ruble looks “very impressive against the backdrop of
emerging-market currencies like the Turkish lira, South African
rand and Brazil’s real,” James Croft, head of emerging-market
fixed-income trading in  London  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities
International Plc., said by e-mail today.  Ruble-denominated government debt due August 2016 fell,
pushing the yield up 5 basis points to 7.62 percent, the highest
in a week. The yield on sovereign dollar bonds maturing in 2020
dropped for a third day, declining 4 basis points to 5.05
percent. Dollar debt due 2015 also rose, with the yield down 10
basis points to 3.57 percent, the lowest since Jan. 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma O’Brien in Moscow at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  