-- S&P 500 Index to Exceed Estimates on Economic Growth, UBS Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   T o m   K e e n e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2011-02-08T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/s-p-500-index-to-exceed-estimates-on-economic-growth-ubs-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. stock returns are likely to
exceed estimates because they’re more dependent on economic
growth than investors realize, according to  Jonathan Golub ,
chief U.S. market strategist at UBS AG.  Golub, who yesterday increased his year-end forecast for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index by 100 points to 1,425 based on
improving economic data, said an increase in the U.S. economic
growth rate has a “huge multiplier effect” on profits.  “A very small tick up in the economy has a three-to-four
times tickup in revenues and even more into earnings,” Golub
said on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , because sales at technology and industrial companies, and
consumer companies reliant on Americans’ discretionary spending,
are correlated with economic growth. “Investors tend to
underestimate how big that’s going to be for corporate profits”
when economic reports beat estimates.  The  S&P 500  rose 95 percent from its low in March 2009
through yesterday as corporate earnings beat expectations, the  Federal Reserve  bought Treasuries to stimulate growth and the
economy recovered from the worst recession since the Great
Depression. U.S. gross domestic product growth quickened to 3.2
percent in the fourth quarter of last year from 2.6 percent in
the third, the government reported on Jan. 28.  As the economy recovers, stock-market gains are likely to
be led by the cyclical industries, while industries less
correlated with growth such as utilities, telecom and consumer
staples will lag behind them, Golub said.  The average of 12 forecasts of strategists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the S&P 500 to end 2011 at 1,392. The benchmark
gauge for U.S. stocks rose 0.2 percent to 1,321.68 as of 2:16
p.m. in  New York .  Rising commodity prices are a bullish sign for the economy,
Golub said, though they can also pressure profit margins at
consumer-staples companies. When commodity prices have surged in
the past, “by and large the overall market’s done well because
it’s a sign of underlying health in the system,” he said. “So
you’re almost better off hoping commodity prices continue to run
up, as long as they don’t get out of control.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  