-- Samsung Dumps Short-Term Debt in Preparation for BOK Rate Rise
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2011-02-08T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/samsung-dumps-three-year-debt-as-biggest-korean-bond-manager-sees-bok-rise.html
Samsung Asset Management Co.,  South
Korea ’s largest bond-fund manager, said it’s reducing holdings
of short-term government debt and buying more longer-term notes
on expectations the central bank will raise  interest rates .  The Seoul-based company, which oversees 66 trillion won
($60 billion) of assets in bonds, is shifting into South Korean
debt with a maturity of 10 years or more and into corporate
bonds, Chief Investment Officer Eugene Kim said in an interview
yesterday.  “Short-term debt is hit most when interest rates begin to
rise and you’d better stay away from it,” Kim said. “Our
central bank may raise the  base rate  as much as possible in the
first half and up to 3.5 percent or even higher this year.”  Nine of twelve economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
predict the  Bank of Korea  will increase the seven-day repurchase
rate by 25 basis points to 3 percent when it meets on Feb. 11,
joining Thailand and  India  in extending interest-rate increases
this year. Kim said the local bond market will weaken further on
selling by overseas investors after the government revived a tax
of as much as 14 percent on interest income from treasury and
central bank bonds held by foreigners.  “Corporate bonds, especially those of consumer financiers
and credit-card issuers with better earnings outlooks, are
attractive,” Kim said, without naming any companies. “I won’t
be buying inflation-linked bonds because there isn’t enough
liquidity yet.”  The company is reducing holdings of three-year local
treasuries and shorter-term notes, according to Kim.  Trigger to Buy  Yields on 3 percent government bonds due in December 2013
were at 4.06 percent yesterday, according to prices from  Korea 
Stock Exchange. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point. The won
advanced 0.3 percent to close at 1,104.68 per dollar yesterday
in Seoul.  “The odds are increasing that the Bank of Korea will raise
the base rate to 3 percent this Friday and the market has been
quickly pricing it in,” Kim said. He added that if yields on
three-year bonds reach as high as 4.5 percent, Samsung may start
buying again.  The yield on the 3 percent bonds has jumped 117 basis
points since Dec. 7, compared with 50 basis points for
equivalent 10-year debt, according to the data provided by the
 Korea Financial Investment Association .  The consumer-price index rose 4.1 percent in January from
a year earlier, after gaining 3.5 percent in December.    China  Impact  Consumer-price inflation may stay around 4 percent in the
first quarter and exceed the government’s 3 percent target this
year, with pressure coming from rising raw material costs and
accelerating inflation in China, finance ministry Director-
General Yoon Jong Won said on Feb. 1.  Asia’s fight against price gains lacks “urgency” and
policy makers need to raise interest rates more aggressively to
restrain inflation expectations, Morgan Stanley Asia’s  Stephen Roach  said in a note on Feb. 7.  President  Lee Myung Bak  last month declared “war” on
inflation and tightened price controls, saying it must be
contained at 3 percent to protect people on low incomes.  Kim at Samsung said that foreign investors have already
started their exit from the South Korean  bond market ,
disappointed at the bond taxes and emboldened to invest in
riskier assets elsewhere as the U.S. economic outlook improves.  “Thai investors are no longer rolling over much of their
Korean short-term bonds at maturity and global funds, including  hedge funds , are shifting from debt to equities,” Kim said.
“Still, Asian central banks, including China, seem to be still
buying, partly for asset diversification.”  Thailand cashed out a net 249 billion won from the Korean  debt market  in December while China invested a net 425 billion
won, according to the Financial Supervisory Service data. Net
outflows by overseas investors were a record 5.3 trillion won in
December, according to the data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  