-- Sara Lee Second-Quarter Profit Declines on Ingredient Costs
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2011-02-08T14:54:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/sara-lee-profit-misses-analysts-estimates-on-higher-costs-for-ingredients.html
  Sara Lee Corp ., the foodmaker that
plans to split itself up next year, posted a 64 percent drop in
second-quarter profit, missing analysts’ projections as costs
for raw ingredients rose.  Profit, excluding items such as discontinued businesses,
fell to $107 million, or 24 cents a share, in the quarter ended
Jan. 1, Sara Lee said today in a statement. Analysts on average
projected 25 cents, according to a Bloomberg survey. Commodity
costs increased by about $127 million.  “Clearly they are getting hammered by higher input costs
and cannot pass them through as much as they had hoped for,”
D.A. Davidson’s  Tim Ramey  said in an interview. The analyst,
based in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon , has a neutral rating on the
shares.  Sara Lee, led by Chief Executive Officer  Marcel Smits ,
decided last month to separate its meat business from its
beverage and bakery operations after failing to agree on
takeover terms with potential buyers. Sales in the international
beverage division rose 1.7 percent last quarter, accounting for
38 percent of total revenue.  That business’s brands include Douwe Egberts and Senseo
coffee, while the meat operations include labels such as Ball
Park hot dogs and Hillshire Farms lunch meat. The meat division,
which will keep the Sara Lee name after the spinoff next year,
posted a 1.2 percent gain in sales in the latest period.  Sara Lee, based in  Downers Grove ,  Illinois , fell 4 cents to
$16.88 at 9:34 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock had risen 35 percent in the past twelve
months before today.  Ingredient Costs  Prices for raw materials like wheat, sugar and coffee are
surging, forcing food companies to pay more. Sanford C.
Bernstein analyst  Alexia Howard  said in a report last month that
commodity costs may rise by an average of 6.7 percent for food
companies in 2011, up from her October projection of 5 percent.  “History shows us that food stocks tend to underperform
the market as commodity costs rise, since gross margins are
crushed,” she said.  Sara Lee’s adjusted operating margin, or the percentage of
sales left after the cost of goods sold and excluding items such
as overhead expenses associated with discontinued operations,
shrank to 10.6 percent in the quarter. That compared with 12.9
percent a year ago.  “The biggest uncertainty going into the quarter was around
profit margins, and I think it could have been a lot worse,”
analyst John Baumgartner of Telsey Advisory Group said in an
interview. The New York-based analyst has a price target of as
much as $20 on the stock.  Smucker’s Price Hike  J.M. Smucker Co., maker of Jif peanut butter and Folgers
coffee, today said it raised the list price for most of its U.S.
coffee products, mainly goods under the Folgers and Dunkin’
Donuts brands, by an average of 10 percent.  Flowers Foods Inc .,
the bakery with brands such as Nature’s Own, today lowered its
profit forecast for the year. CEO George Deese spoke of
volatility in ingredient expenses on a conference call with
analysts today.  Sara Lee chose to pursue its split after rebuffing informal
offers from  JBS SA  and a buyout group led by Apollo Global
Management LLC. On Jan. 28, the same day as the split
announcement, Sara Lee lowered its forecast for full-year
earnings to as much as 89 cents a share, from a previous top
range of 94 cents. Analysts project 88 cents on average. Sara
Lee reaffirmed that forecast today.  The board then promoted Smits, 49, to lead Sara Lee in
January, about five months after predecessor  Brenda Barnes 
resigned to focus on her health. C.J. Fraleigh, who currently
runs the North American retail and food-service unit, will
become chief of the meat business after the split.  Second-quarter sales from continuing operations fell less
than 1 percent to $2.35 billion. Sara Lee’s discontinued
operations include the North American fresh bakery business and
its international household and body-care unit.  Net income for the period more than doubled to $880
million, or $1.37 a share, from $371 million, or 53 cents, a
year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in New York at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  