-- Scene Last Night: Citigroup’s Parsons, Ella, James B. Stewart
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2011-02-08T16:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/scene-last-night-richard-parsons-ella-james-b-stewart-thomas-hampson.html
“Even in Antarctica they know the
Apollo,” said Richard Parsons, chairman of Citigroup, last
night at the  Museum of the City of New York .  Parsons, who is also chairman of the Apollo Theater
Foundation, was standing near a fedora that once adorned  Michael
Jackson .  That hat is in “Ain’t Nothing Like the Real Thing,” an
exhibition of costumes, instruments and other artifacts related
to the  Apollo Theater  in Harlem.  People don’t appreciate the contributions the Apollo has
made to American culture, Parsons added at the reception: “My
personal favorite is Ella, who showed up on an amateur night to
dance and on the spot decided to sing instead, and went on to
become the most significant vocalist -- with the exception of  Frank Sinatra .”  Also on display: tap shoes worn by Sammy Davis Jr. as a
child, and a flugelhorn used by  Miles Davis .  The show is organized by the  Smithsonian National Museum of
African American History and Culture  in  Washington . The director
of the Museum of the City of New York, Susan Henshaw Jones,
noted her museum’s proximity to the Apollo. “While the show is
here, it’s home,” she said.  James B. Stewart  “I’d heard that most of the people working for  Morgan
Stanley  at the World Trade Center had survived, and that there
was this one man who had led people out,” James B. Stewart said
at a press briefing for “Heart of a Soldier,” an opera that
has its world premiere on Sept. 10, 2011, at the San Francisco
Opera.  When he called Morgan Stanley, the press representative
declined to cooperate.  “But right before she hung up the phone, she said, ‘By the
way, you might be interested in Susan Rescorla’s unlisted number
in  New Jersey ,’” Stewart said.  The Pulitzer Prize winner, who wrote “Den of Thieves”
about the downfall of Ivan Boesky and  Michael Milken , joined the
opera’s creative team yesterday at the National Arts Club on
Gramercy Park in New York.  Thomas Hampson is cast as Rick Rescorla, the head of
security at the investment bank, who died as he evacuated
employees on the morning of Sept. 11. The story focuses on his
friendship with Daniel J. Hill, whom he met in Rhodesia and
fought with in  Vietnam , and on his marriage to Susan, for whom
he loved to write poetry.  Composer Christopher Theofanidis includes bagpipes and
electric guitar in his score. Donna Di Novelli wrote the
libretto, and the director is Francesca Zambello, who is a
friend of Stewart’s and came up with the idea.  As yet there are no plans to bring “Heart of a Soldier”
to  New York  or to telecast it, said SFO general manager David Gockley.  Dancing Milken  Stewart recalled that “Den of Thieves” was made into a
ballet at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.  “I remember there was both a dancing and a singing
Milken,” he said. “After that anything was possible.”  At a recent run-through of the opera, “I cried within a
minute,” Stewart said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
art and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 