-- Smaller Fannie Mortgage Limits Unlikely to Fuel Mortgage Bonds
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2011-02-08T20:41:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/smaller-fannie-mae-mortgage-limits-unlikely-to-fuel-mortgage-bond-issuance.html
A cut in the size of mortgages that
Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  can finance will likely increase
banks’ holdings of so-called jumbo loans rather than boost sales
of private home-loan securities, a  Wells Fargo & Co . executive
said.  About $30 billion to $50 billion of additional mortgages
that are larger than the government-supported mortgage-finance
companies can buy would be written annually if the reduction is
put in place, said Anthony “Tuck” Reed, senior vice president
of capital markets at Wells Fargo’s mortgage unit.  “The banking system can probably absorb” the amount as
individual lenders increase their portfolios of the debt, Reed
said today during a panel discussion at the American
Securitization Forum’s annual  conference  in  Orlando ,  Florida .
That’s true even though banks’ holdings of residential debt are
high by historical standards, he said.  The size of mortgages that Washington-based Fannie Mae and
McLean, Virginia-based Freddie Mac can guarantee will drop to
$625,500 this year unless lawmakers approve an extension. The
companies, which along with other agencies now account for about
95 percent of new home lending, currently can buy or guarantee
mortgages as large as $729,750 in high-cost areas.  Congressional approval of a renewal of that limit is
unlikely by its September expiration because Republicans have
gained control of the U.S. House of Representatives, James Lockhart, the former head of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency ,
said during the panel discussion.  ‘Game Changer’  Only one securitization of new U.S. home loans without
government backing has occurred in almost three years, a
packaging of less than $240 million of mortgages, after sales
peaked at about $1.2 trillion in each of 2005 and 2006.  Redwood Trust Inc. Chief Executive Officer Martin Hughes,
whose investment firm completed that deal in April 2010, said
yesterday at the conference that lowering limits for  Fannie Mae 
and Freddie Mac is a potential “game changer in getting private
markets up and going.”  Issuance this year will likely be between $2 billion and $5
billion, though could be as much as $10 billion, Hughes said.  Banks are awash in deposits and unable to find many
opportunities to put that cash to work by making new loans,
Lockhart, now vice chairman at WL Ross & Co. LLC, said in an
interview. An economic recovery that offers more loan demand
from other borrowers would reduce banks’ desire to take on more
jumbo mortgages, Reed said.  A decrease in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac loan limits would
be a “test balloon” for the ability of private markets to
handle more new home lending, said Ryan Stark, a director at
Deutsche Bank AG’s securities unit. Until the future of the
companies and other planned regulations get decided, the
mortgage-bond industry will be challenged, he said during the
panel today.  “It’s really, really hard to see much in this market
before you define what this market is,” Stark said. “There’s
strong demand for paper but I don’t think the economics work
yet,” he added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  