-- South Africa's Jobless Rate Falls to 24% as Government Hires More Workers
-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 2011-02-08T15:10:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/south-africa-s-jobless-rate-falls-to-24-as-economic-recovery-takes-hold.html
  South Africa ’s jobless rate, the
highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg, fell to 24 percent
in the fourth quarter as the government hired more workers and
manufacturing recovered.  The unemployment rate slid from 25.3 percent in the
previous three months, Statistics South Africa said in a report
released in  Pretoria  today. The number of people in work
increased by 157,000 to 13.1 million.  President  Jacob Zuma  is under pressure from labor union
allies to fulfill election pledges made two years ago to slash
the jobless rate. A new growth plan, published by Economic
Development Minister  Ebrahim Patel  on Nov. 23, targets 5 million
jobs by 2020 in order to reduce unemployment to 15 percent. That
requires growth of as much as 7 percent a year, while  Africa ’s
biggest economy is forecast by the central bank to expand 3.4
percent in 2011.  “Although there is clear evidence that the economic
recovery is under way, the private sector still appears fairly
reluctant to expand employment in a meaningful way,”  Kevin Lings , an economist at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg,
said in a note to clients. “Most of the jobs gains over the
past quarter have been in the public sector.”  The community and social services sector, which includes
the government, added 148,000 jobs in the fourth quarter, the
statistics office said. Manufacturing increased employment by
70,000, while the retail trade industry, the biggest employer in
the economy, created 28,000 jobs, the agency said.  Not Enough  “The current growth rates are insufficient to make
significant inroads into the  unemployment rate ,” central bank
Governor Gill Marcus said on Feb. 4. “This underlines the need
to generate higher levels of growth.”  The finance industry posted the biggest drop in employment,
losing 31,000 jobs in the fourth quarter, followed by
agriculture, which cut 13,000 jobs. Mining lost 5,000 jobs, the
agency said.  The data shows that 68 percent of the unemployed have been
without jobs for a year or more. The jobless rate climbs to 35.8
percent when including those who have given up looking for work,
according to the statistics office.  Zuma may announce the creation of a 10 billion-rand ($1.4
billion) jobs fund when he makes his state-of-the-nation speech
next week, the Johannesburg-based Financial Mail reported on
Feb. 2, without saying where it got the information. The fund
may be used to subsidize jobs for young people or to pay for
apprenticeships at state-owned companies, the weekly magazine
said.  ‘Jobs, Jobs, Jobs’  “Jobs, jobs, jobs is going to be at the top of the state-
of-the-nation agenda,”  Gwede Mantashe , secretary general of the
ruling  African National Congress , told reporters in Johannesburg
today. “Employment creation has suffered a setback because of
the economic meltdown, therefore we need to do a catch-up.”  The economy expanded an annualized 2.6 percent in the third
quarter and 2.8 percent in the previous three months as the
central bank cut its benchmark interest rate to a 30-year low of
5.5 percent to spur  consumer spending , while export demand
improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 