-- St. Joe Hires Morgan Stanley to Help It Explore Merger, Sale
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/st-joe-hires-morgan-stanley-to-consider-possible-merger-sale.html
  St. Joe  Co., the largest private
landholder in northern  Florida , hired  Morgan Stanley  to help it
explore strategic alternatives including a merger or sale, a
month after the biggest shareholder took two board seats.  St. Joe will consider a revised business plan, operating
partnerships, joint ventures, strategic alliances, asset sales
and strategic acquisitions, the Watersound, Florida-based
developer said yesterday in a statement.  “Our board and management are committed to taking the
appropriate and necessary actions to enhance value for St. Joe
shareholders,” Britt Greene, the company’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement.    David Einhorn , president of hedge fund Greenlight Capital
Inc., announced in October he had taken a short position on St.
Joe, saying at an investor conference that the property owner
had failed to write down the value of its land. St. Joe said
last month that the Securities and Exchange Commission opened an
informal inquiry over the company’s policies for impairing
investment in real estate assets.  “With the company trading at more than three times its
value, it is easy to see why the Board wants to sell, but hard
to fathom why anyone would buy,” Greenlight said in a statement
yesterday.  “The lack of  cash flow  creates a particular
challenge for any financial buyer.”  Bruce R. Berkowitz and Charles M. Fernandez of Fairholme
Capital Management LLC, which owned 29 percent of St. Joe’s
outstanding shares as of Jan. 12, became board members at the
beginning of this year as the panel expanded to nine seats.  Berkowitz, Fernandez  “I have said in the past that I would like to buy the
whole company if I could buy the company,” Berkowitz said in a
Bloomberg Television interview on Feb. 1. “But today, I and my
partner, Charlie Fernandez, we are directors of Joe and we have
to work in the best interests of all shareholders of St. Joe.”  Berkowitz didn’t respond to e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  St. Joe traded as high as $33 in extended trading after the
announcement. The shares closed at $29.05 in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading and have risen 33 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net ;
John Gittelsohn in New York at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  