-- Stockland to Buy Land, Not Rivals, to Grow Home Unit, MD Says
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2011-02-09T06:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/stockland-reports-first-half-profit-almost-doubles-raises-annual-forecast.html
Stockland,  Australia ’s biggest
diversified property trust, will eschew acquisitions of other
residential developers in favor of expanding its land bank,
Managing Director Matthew Quinn said today.  “There’s a lot of opportunity to grow,” Quinn said in a
telephone interview from Sydney. “We secured over 19,000 lots
in the first half and are currently negotiating on a lot more.
We’re not expecting any mergers or acquisitions for residential.
Everybody has a different business model and we have to maintain
our focus.”  The company, which is concentrating on its residential,
retirement and retail businesses, today reported profit in the
six months ended December that almost doubled to A$425.1 million
($431 million) from a year ago. It raised its forecast for the
2011 fiscal year, citing residential sales, growth in commercial
property income and contributions from the takeover of Aevum Ltd.  Earnings per share for the year ending June 30 will be 8.5
percent higher than a year ago, compared with an earlier
forecast of a 7 percent increase, the Sydney-based company said
in a statement.    Stockland , which announced it will exit its apartment
business last year, will reinvest the proceeds from the sale
into its residential communities business, it said.  Stockland shares rose 3.8 percent to A$3.85 at the 4:10 p.m.
close of trading in Sydney. They’ve gained 6.9 percent this year,
compared with a 3.4 percent increase in the benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index.  Shrinking Lots  The company is focusing on creating affordable house-and-
land packages for “middle Australia” on increasingly smaller
lots as the population grows and housing supply dwindles, Quinn
said.  “Over five years ago, our lot size was over 600 square
meters,” he said. “Today it’s less than 500. There’s still
plenty of room to go down.”  Stockland’s average prices for lots of 494 square meters
(5,317 square feet), which rose 3 percent to A$212,000 during
the half, will continue to increase for the next six months
before they start to flatten, Quinn said.  Home prices  in
Australia rose 5.8 percent in the December quarter from a year
earlier, according to the statistics bureau.  Stockland’s share of the house-and-land market rose to 30
percent from 24 percent and it has acquired 19,150 lots, worth
about A$6 billion, for future development, it said today.  Residential contracts rose 70 percent in the first half, as
the unit contributed operating profit of A$101 million.
Production delays due to wet weather in Queensland, Victoria and
New South Wales states will mean more sales will be completed in
the second half, the company said.  Retirement  “We expected residential would do well, and they went into
the year with a good number of contracts on hand,” said Stuart Cartledge, managing director of Phoenix Portfolios in  Melbourne .
“We expect some good numbers for this year.”  Retirement communities reported operating income of A$19
million, with the company almost doubling its retirement living
assets with the acquisition of Aevum during the half. The
purchase will benefit the company as Australia’s population
continues to age, Cartledge said.  An estimated 100,000 new retirement units will be needed by
2030 as the proportion of people over 65 years -- now at 15
percent of the population -- continues to grow, the company said.  It will focus on integrating Aevum into its business and
achieving the cost savings and revenue growth from the purchase
before considering other acquisitions, Quinn said today.  “Industry consolidation will happen, but it may take some
time, and that suits us just fine,” he said.  Stockland expects cost savings of about 15 percent by the
end of the 2012 fiscal year, it said.  The retail business reported operating income of A$143
million, with rental growth of 4.3 percent, as Stockland moves
forward with its A$2.4 billion development pipeline, it said.  Stockland will pay a distribution of 11.8 Australian cents
for the half, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 Nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  