-- Sudanese Authorities Seek Debt Relief Before South Becomes Independent
-- B y   M a t t   R i c h m o n d
-- 2011-02-08T14:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/sudan-seeks-debt-forgiveness-before-southern-independence.html
Sudanese authorities want creditors
to write off much of the country’s $38 billion foreign debt
before Southern  Sudan  becomes independent in July, a minister in
the southern government said.  Without debt relief, the northern and southern regions are
likely to split the debt load, Gabriel Changson Chang, a member
of the committee negotiating financial arrangements with the
north, said today in an interview in Juba, the southern capital.
At most, 75 percent of the debt will be written off, he said.  Sudan hasn’t been able to borrow from the  World Bank  since
1993 because of its failure to make payments on its debt. That
may leave the south, one of  Africa ’s poorest regions, ineligible
to borrow from the bank.  Sudan  has debt arrears of about $30
billion, according to the Washington-based  Center for Global
Development .  “We want both the north and south to be economically
viable,” said Chang, who also is the southern minister of
culture.  Almost 99 percent of  Southern Sudanese  voters chose
independence in a referendum last month. The plebiscite was the
centerpiece of a 2005 peace deal that ended decades of civil war
between northern and  southern Sudan .  At independence the south will assume control of almost
three quarters of Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000
barrels a day, pumped mainly by China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. Sudan’s output is the third-biggest in sub-Saharan Africa.  Poverty  A region about the size of  Texas  with just 30 miles (48
kilometers) of paved roads, Southern Sudan has no steady power
supply, large-scale farms or factories. Half of its 8 million
people live on less than $1 a day and need food aid, according
to the  United Nations . The regional government depends on oil
earnings for 98 percent of its budget.  Responsibility for the debt is one of the key issues the
northern and southern regions must negotiate before the south
becomes independent. The sides should also agree on citizenship,
sharing oil revenue, border demarcation and the future of the
disputed region of Abyei.  Pressure on Creditors  “I would be surprised if Sudan’s creditors force the
country to repay the entirety of its large debt,” Simon
Freemantle, an economist at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank
Group Ltd., said yesterday in a phone interview.  “We are likely to see substantial pressure exerted on
countries such as the U.K. in the wake of South Sudan’s
secession to significantly reduce the debt owed by Sudan in
order to facilitate post-independence growth momentum,” he said.  The majority of Sudan’s debt was held by governments,
according to a June report from the  International Monetary Fund .  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir called for debt relief at
a meeting of the  Arab League  last month.  “Sudan has just emerged from conflict and it is clear that
it deserves preferential treatment from creditor states,”
Bashir said.  Sudan’s government in Khartoum, the capital, last month
imposed import restrictions and austerity measures, including
the partial lifting of fuel subsidies, to help government
finances cope with the likely secession of the south.  Oil provided 49 percent of government revenue in 2009,
Auditor General al-Taher Abdel Qayoum Ibrahim told parliament in
October.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 