-- Egyptians Rally in Cairo as Suleiman Pledges Change
-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a ,   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2011-02-08T17:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/suleiman-to-meet-media-chiefs-in-bid-to-show-egypt-moving-on-press-freedom.html
Tens of thousands of Egyptian
protesters filled Cairo’s Tahrir Square, with many setting up
makeshift camps before dusk, as Vice President  Omar Suleiman 
sought to convince demonstrators that the government is serious
about moving toward democracy and stabilizing the economy.  Suleiman said a committee would begin work today on
redrafting the constitution, following two days of negotiations
with opposition leaders in which he promised wider press freedom
and said he would to produce a checklist of measures needed to
hold free elections. Demonstrators calling for the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak  were joined in central Cairo by Google
Inc. executive Wael Ghonim, who was released yesterday after
being detained during a protest last week.  “There needs to be credibility and good intentions to
engage these youths in a dialogue,”  Naguib Sawiris , chairman of  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE  and a participant in the talks with
Suleiman, said in a telephone interview after Ghonim’s release.
“The regime must understand that it has to pick one of two
options: Attack and arrest the people or engage them in a
dialogue. It cannot have both.”  As dusk approached, Tahrir Square was tightly packed with
demonstrators, it taking about 45 minutes to walk through the
throng from one side of the area to the other. The rallies
remained peaceful after clashes last week in which the  United
Nations  said as many as 300 people died.  Army Presence  “I’m not a hero. You’re all heroes, the martyrs who have
died in the struggle are the real heroes,” Ghonim said,
addressing the crowd from a stage. His last remark prompted
cheers from protesters. Pictures of those killed in the unrest
have been posted around the square. Tanks and armored personnel
carriers were stationed outside Tahrir late yesterday, guarding
the nearby government radio and television building and a bridge
that overlooks the square.  Protests were also reported today in Alexandria, Sohag, El-
Arish, Ismailia, Suez, Port Said, Mahalla, Beheira, Dakhalia and
Beni Suef.  The central bank intervened in financial markets today,
buying pounds to halt a decline in the currency after the mass
demonstrations that began on Jan. 25. The pound rose 1.3
percent, paring most of its loss in the previous two days after
the banking system reopened. Suleiman’s negotiations have also
helped bring down  Egypt ’s bond yields and the price of insuring
its debt.  Business Returns  “We’ve seen things stabilize this week after last week’s
major shake-up, in terms of banks coming back, violence settling
down and politics starting to take shape,” said Ashraf Gamal,
an associate professor of economics at Cairo University. “But
until we see the government in place and changes start to get
implemented, we will be stuck in this gray area.”  Suleiman met with Egyptian media chiefs today, after
international condemnation of violence against local and foreign
journalists last week during clashes between Mubarak supporters
and the opposition.  Mubarak’s declaration on Feb. 1 that he will step down
later this year failed to halt the protests. Two days earlier,
the president had appointed Suleiman, 74, as the first vice
president since he came to power in 1981.  General Mourad Muwafi was appointed head of the country’s
intelligence service, replacing Suleiman, the state-run Middle
East News Agency reported today.  Reduced Risk  The start of talks between the government and the
opposition has helped cut Egypt’s credit risk to the lowest
level since the protests began. The cost of insuring debt fell 5
basis points to 340 at 4:30 p.m. in  London , according to CMA
prices. The yield on Egypt’s dollar bonds due in 2020 rose 5
basis points to 6.26 percent, after reaching a record 7.2
percent on Jan. 31. The stock market is due to reopen on Feb. 13
and the bourse said today that sessions will be curtailed by an
hour.  Other signs of a return toward normality in the country
include the gradual reopening of a financial system that was
closed all last week.    Citigroup Inc . restored services at branches and automated
teller machines in the country, said Alberto Verme, the bank’s
co-chief executive officer for  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa . Bank withdrawals in Egypt are stable, Verme said at a
conference in Qatar today.  The uprising against a key U.S. ally pushed  oil prices 
higher and drove the Egyptian pound to a six-year low before the
central bank’s purchases. Oil fluctuated near a one-week low in
New York, with crude falling as much as 1.8 percent before
paring declines. Oil for March delivery fell 29 cents, or 0.3
percent, to $87.19 a barrel at 11:06 a.m. on the  New York 
Mercantile Exchange. Futures have risen 21 percent in the past
year.  ‘Making Progress’  President  Barack Obama  said yesterday Egypt is “making
progress” in negotiating an end to the standoff.  Mubarak ordered that anti-government protesters should not
face criminal charges, Suleiman said in an address aired on
state television. The president said “the youths of Egypt
deserve the appreciation of the country,” according to
Suleiman.  Low wages, high unemployment and rising food prices have
been among grievances cited by protesters in Egypt, the most
populous Arab country.  Food costs have come down after a jump during the rallies of
last week. The price for 1 kilogram (2.2 pounds) of cucumbers at
Cairo’s Embaba street market was 3 pounds ($0.51) today,
compared with a high 5 pounds last week. Potatoes cost 2.5
pounds, down from 4 pounds, and green beans fell by half to 5
pounds.  Economic Growth  The economy probably grew 6.2 percent in the last quarter
of 2010, according to official estimates, up from 5.5 percent
the previous three months. The government says it needs growth
of at least 7 percent to create enough jobs every year for a
growing working-age population.  Mubarak’s regime has cooperated with Israel to impose a
blockade on the  Gaza Strip  and helped U.S. efforts to rally Arab
support against  Iran ’s nuclear program. Egypt and Jordan are the
only two Arab states to have signed peace treaties with  Israel .  Anti-government protests have rocked the Arab world in
recent weeks as citizens demand higher  living standards  and an
end to repression and corruption. A revolt in  Tunisia  toppled
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, Jordan’s  King Abdullah 
replaced the prime minister and asked him to form a new
government, and demonstrations took place in Algeria and  Yemen .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Vivian Salama in Dubai at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 