-- Swedish Krona Rises for Second Day Against Dollar on Growth; Krone Gains
-- B y   P a u l   D o b s o n
-- 2011-02-08T13:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/swedish-krona-reaches-10-year-euro-high-on-growth-krone-rises-with-oil.html
Sweden’s krona strengthened for a
second day against the dollar and touched a 10-year high versus
the euro on speculation global growth will spur demand for the
Nordic nation’s assets.  Norway ’s krone also rose.  The krona appreciated against 13 of its 16 most-traded
peers as the MSCI World Index of equities advanced. U.S.
consumer borrowing rose in December for a third straight month,
according to data published yesterday and a report today showed
an index of confidence among small U.S. businesses increased.
The krone pared gains after  China  raised key  interest rates  and
Norway’s finance minister said he wants to ensure currency gains
don’t hurt exports.  “We’re bullish on both” the krone and the krona, said
David Deddouche, a foreign-exchange strategist at Societe
Generale in Paris. “The market is in a risk-on mode, and that’s
pushing investors to put on positions that are leveraged to
global growth. Sweden is clearly among the best-positioned to
benefit from that. People are likely to get long the Norwegian
krone as well.”  Sweden’s krona strengthened 0.4 percent to 6.4358 per
dollar as of 12:50 p.m. in  London . It was little changed at
8.7796 per euro after appreciating to 8.7642 per euro, the
strongest level since December 2000.  The krone appreciated 0.2 percent against the dollar to
5.7687 and slid 0.2 percent to 7.8693 per euro.  Norwegian Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said a key
policy concern is to ensure the krone doesn’t appreciate to an
extent that hurts exporters.  The  Finance Ministry  is keeping a “keen eye” on the
development of the currency, he said today in an interview in
Oslo. The krone’s recent gains underpin the government’s
determination to limit spending and avoid fueling any
appreciation, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Dobson in London at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  