-- Switzerland Is Examining Whether Mubarak Has Assets in Country
-- B y   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 2011-02-08T12:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/switzerland-is-examining-whether-mubarak-has-assets-in-country.html
The Swiss government is examining
whether Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak  has assets in the
country after the accounts of former Tunisian leader 
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali were frozen last month.  “The Federal Department of  Foreign Affairs  is looking
into” whether Mubarak or his family have any assets in the
nation’s banks, and “the government will be informed,” Finance
Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf told SF in a television
interview broadcast late yesterday, adding “there are no
entirely clear signs” of whether Mubarak or his entourage do
have assets in Switzerland.  Mubarak has said he intends to stay in his position until
September even as daily rallies in Cairo call for him to step
down. Protests spread to  Egypt  after  Tunisia ’s former President
Ben Ali left the country for  Saudi Arabia . The Swiss government
has said it blocked “tens of millions” of Ben Ali’s assets.  Switzerland’s reputation as an international banking center
depends on the ability to check whether funds deposited in its
banks had been acquired legally, Widmer-Schlumpf said. The
government would act “appropriately,” after the Mubarak
investigation, she said, without being more specific or saying
that any potential assets would be frozen.  Suleiman Awad, a spokesman for Egypt’s president, couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment when Bloomberg News tried to
reach him at his office three times.  According to Swiss legislation, illegally acquired assets
of former heads of states can be frozen and possibly returned to
the nation’s people.  Middle East Funds  “We in  Switzerland  have to make sure that the money coming
in is both legal and taxed so that our banking sector maintains
its reputation,” she said in the interview.  The “surprisingly quick” decision to block Ben Ali’s
Swiss funds may send a warning signal to leaders across the
Middle East, said Jon Marks, an academic at  Chatham House , a
foreign policy research institute based in  London .  Widmer-Schlumpf said that while there were “sometimes
assumptions” that politicians from abroad might conceal illegal
funds in Swiss accounts, it would be an “oversimplification”
to say that all foreign leaders’ assets were suspect.  “It’s definitely important that we check where this money
is coming from and whether it’s legal,” she said, adding that
Switzerland has no plans to ban politicians from other countries
from opening bank accounts. “What criteria would you use?”  “It’s important that the money that comes in is legal and
taxed -- that can be checked -- but the question of who is legal
or illegal and in which regime is someone legal or illegal is
not something for Switzerland to decide,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leigh Baldwin at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  