-- U.A.E. Needs to Determine Nuclear Fuel Disposal Plan, Blix Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2011-02-08T06:09:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-a-e-needs-to-determine-nuclear-fuel-disposal-plan-blix-says.html
The  United Arab Emirates  needs to
determine how to dispose of used nuclear fuel as part of its
energy development program, government adviser and former United
Nations chief weapons inspector Hans Blix said.  “The question of a final disposal plan is still open and
more attention should be spent on deciding what to do,” Blix,
chairman of an independent advisory group set up by the
government, told reporters yesterday.  The federation will be the first Gulf Arab country to
develop nuclear power if it starts up its first reactor in 2017
as planned.  Iran  is developing reactors and other Gulf nations
like  Saudi Arabia  are studying use of nuclear technology to meet
growing domestic energy demand.  The  International Advisory Board , headed by Blix, released
its first interim report today on the U.A.E.’s progress in
developing a sound nuclear industry and regulatory framework.  The study said the U.A.E. regulatory and industry framework
was committed to safety and independent oversight and
recommended the government speed up passage of legislation to
govern the export and import of technology and equipment.  “There are several options” for how to store spent fuel,
said Blix, who spoke on a conference call during a briefing at
the  Abu Dhabi  government’s Executive Affairs Authority. They
include above- or underground storage of spent fuel rods or
leasing fuel that would then be sent back to the provider once
it’s been used, Blix said.  The U.A.E. won’t seek to enrich uranium or reprocess spent
fuel rods, Blix said. He added that the federation was currently
focused on implementing regulations and building the plants
before deciding how to dispose of the fuel.  Draft Laws  The government is studying draft laws on the import and
export of nuclear equipment and technologies that will be in
place before the first power plants start to operate, said a
government official who asked not to be identified by name since
he’s not an authorized spokesman.  Abu Dhabi, the largest sheikhdom in the U.A.E. and the
nation’s capital, owns  Emirates Nuclear Energy Corp. , the only
company that plans to build the  power plants  in the country.  The top energy planning body in Dubai, the second-largest
sheikhdom in the U.A.E., is developing a long-term supply
strategy that may include the use of nuclear and clean-coal
electricity sources, Saeed Mohammad Al-Tayer, vice chairman of
the policy body, said in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  