-- U.K. Housing Gauge Increases as Property-Supply Shortage Supports Prices
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2011-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-k-housing-price-gauge-increased-in-january-on-supply-shortage.html
A U.K. house-price gauge rose to a
six-month high in January as fewer homeowners put their
properties on the market, squeezing supply, the  Royal
Institution  of Chartered Surveyors said.  The number of real-estate agents and surveyors saying
prices fell exceeded those seeing gains by 31 percentage points,
the highest reading since July, the London-based group said in
an e-mailed report today. That compares with minus 39 in
December. Economists forecast an increase to minus 38, according
to the median of 16 predictions in a Bloomberg News survey.  Recent house-price data has been mixed as the market wavers
between a lack of supply and the impact on demand of weakening
consumer confidence, a faltering economic recovery and the
government’s fiscal squeeze. The  Bank of England  will keep its
benchmark interest rate unchanged at a record low and refrain
from adding to its bond-purchase plan this week, according to
Bloomberg News surveys of economists.  “Uncertainty over the prospects for employment, alongside
the shortage of mortgage finance, particularly for first-time
buyers continues to weigh heavily on transactions levels,” RICS
spokesman Ian Perry said in a statement. “However, there is a
very clear regional pattern emerging with  London  seeing a
greater level of price resilience.”  A measure of sales per surveyor in the three months to
January fell to 14.6, the lowest since June 2009, from 15.2. A
gauge of new buyer enquiries rose to minus 7 in January from
minus 12 in December, and a measure showing the number of new
property listings increased to minus 3 from minus 14.  London Prices  In London, the  price index  jumped minus 4 in January from
minus 18, while a price-expectations gauge rose to 1, the first
positive reading since the middle of last year.  “The central London market is in danger of totally
stagnating,” said Benson Beard, a surveyor at Bective Leslie
Marsh in the capital. The “severe lack of property coming on is
resulting in price increases.”  Halifax, Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s mortgage unit, also
cited a supply shortage when it said last week that  house prices 
rose in January. Hometrack Ltd. said on Jan. 27 that prices
dropped 0.5 percent in January, while the  Land Registry  said on
Jan. 31 that values slipped 0.2 percent in December.  The Bank of England’s nine-member Monetary Policy
Committee, led by Governor  Mervyn King , will hold its key rate
at a record low of 0.5 percent on Feb. 10, according to all 62
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They’ll also keep their
bond plan at 200 billion pounds ($322 billion), said all 38
economists in a separate poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  