-- U.K. Bank Levy Increase to Raise 800 Million Pounds
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2011-02-08T12:35:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-k-increases-bank-levy-rates-for-march-and-april-update1-.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  increased a tax on U.K. bank balance sheets to raise an
extra 800 million pounds ($1.3 billion) as he continues to press
lenders to boost lending targets and curb pay.  The rise means the government will raise 2.5 billion pounds
from the tax in the current financial year ending in April, more
than the previously forecast 1.7 billion pounds, the Treasury
said today. The levy, announced by Osborne in June last year,
was introduced in January. The 2.5 billion-pound target was
originally intended to apply in future years.  “I wanted to get on the table what we’re going to do with
tax so we could negotiate in good faith with the banks on
lending agreements, rather than negotiate the lending agreement
and sting them with the tax,” Osborne said in an interview with
BBC Radio 4’s “ Today ” show. “I’m not prepared to conclude a
deal until I know it’s a good one for the British people and the
British economy.”  Osborne made the announcement as talks with banks on pay
and business lending, the so-called Project Merlin, continued
for a 10th week. With banks due to announce payouts this month
and next,  Labour ’s new Treasury spokesman,  Ed Balls , called for
the reintroduction of his party’s onetime tax on bonuses, which
raised 3.5 billion pounds a year ago.  ‘Fig Leaf’  “Without this bank-bonus tax -- and with the banks set to
benefit from a corporation-tax cut -- George Osborne has
actually delivered a  tax cut  for the banks compared to last
year, even after today’s announcement,” Balls, who today faces
Osborne in the  House of Commons  for the first time since his
appointment, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This panicky announcement seems to be a fig leaf to hide
George Osborne’s failure to get a deal” with the banks on pay
and lending.  The government will charge banks 0.1 percent on short-term
liabilities and 0.05 percent for long-term liabilities in March
and April, the Treasury said in the statement. The rate will
then drop to the 0.075 percent rate for short-term and 0.0375
percent for long-term liabilities announced in December.  The levy was increased because bank stability has improved
in recent months, lenders have been given greater time to meet
international  capital requirements  and there is more certainty
on regulation, the Treasury said.  ‘Move More Quickly’  “I was originally going to phase this in but when I made
that announcement in June, most of the world thought the banks
were weaker than they’ve turned out to be so we can move more
quickly to the full rate,” Osborne said.    Lloyds Banking Group Plc ,  Standard Chartered Plc  and  Barclays Plc  spokesmen declined to comment.  HSBC Holdings Plc 
and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and spokesmen didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Business Secretary Vince Cable today repeated a call for
banks to exercise restraint on pay.  “What’s wrong with very big bonuses is that it’s done on
the back of a taxpayer guarantee,” Cable said in an interview
on Sky News television. “The one weapon that’s open to the
government is a tax on their balance sheets.” Cable said the
levy would raise 10 billion pounds by 2015.  Unite , Britain’s biggest union, attacked today’s
announcement as “political gesturing.”  Bonuses ‘Like Confetti’  “The effort to present this bank levy as a punishment for
the banks is pathetic, the money returned to the Treasury is a
pittance, while bonuses are chucked around like confetti,”  Len McCluskey , Unite’s leader, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
levy does nothing to fundamentally reform banking in this
country.”  The  Institute of Directors , a London-based business lobby
group, expressed concern that the government might raise the tax
again.  “When the levy was first introduced we cautioned that
there was a real risk that it would ramp up over time and risk
undermining the competitiveness” of the U.K.’s financial
industry, IoD Chief Economist Graeme Leach said in an e-mailed
statement. “Let’s hope it’s the last increase.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  