-- U.K. Retail Sales Rise at Fastest Pace in 10 Months on Post-Snow Rebound
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2011-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-k-retail-sales-advance-at-fastest-pace-in-10-months-brc-says.html
U.K. retail sales rose at the fastest
pace in 10 months in January as  consumer spending  rebounded
after the coldest December in a century, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Sales at stores open at least 12 months, measured by value,
rose 2.3 percent from a year earlier, compared with a 0.8
percent decline in December, the London-based BRC said in an e-
mailed statement today. Pent-up demand after December’s snow and
New Year discounts contributed to the gain, it said.  While the data add to evidence that the economy’s 0.5
percent contraction in the fourth quarter may have been a
temporary setback to the recovery, the increase was partly
because sales in January 2010 were damped by cold weather, the
BRC said.  Consumer confidence  plunged the most since 1994 last
month as the government implemented its budget squeeze, which
includes an increase in value-added tax on sales.  “On the surface, this is the best sales growth since last
March, but that’s not the whole story,” BRC Director General  Stephen Robertson  said in the statement. “A range of
pressures is bearing down on customers. As it considers the
budget, the government must not add any more.”  Robertson said growth in non-food sales slowed in the
latter part of January “as the reality of worries about jobs
and personal finances returned to customers’ minds.”  In the three months through January, food sales rose 1.4
percent from the same period a year earlier on a like-for-like
basis, the slowest annual pace since the quarter through June,
the BRC said. Sales of non-food items rose 0.4 percent, the
first increase since the three months through August.  The BRC report, which is compiled in conjunction with
accountancy firm KPMG LLP, measures changes in the actual value
of retail sales and doesn’t adjust for price changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Scott Hamilton  in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  