-- U.S. Governors' No-Tax Promises Face Skepticism Among Voters, Polls Show
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-s-governors-no-tax-promises-face-skepticism-among-voters-polls-show.html
At least 13 U.S. governors have sworn
not to raise taxes to solve their multibillion-dollar deficits.
In at least three states, voters don’t buy it.  Most voters in  Ohio , Florida and  Pennsylvania  polled in the
past two months by  Quinnipiac University  in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
said they didn’t think their governors would make good on a no-
tax pledge.  “They see that politicians do not always do what they say
they’re going to do,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of
 Quinnipiac University Polling Institute , said in a telephone
interview.  States face shortfalls that may reach $125 billion in the
next fiscal year, according to the  Center for Policy & Budget
Priorities,  and their governors are responding by slashing
spending, raising taxes and selling state assets.  John Kasich of Ohio, Pennsylvania’s Tom Corbett and  Rick Scott  of Florida, all Republicans elected last year, each said
during their campaigns that not only would they not raise taxes,
they would cut them to spur economic activity.  Scott proposed a 2012 budget yesterday that would close a
projected deficit of $3.6 billion by lowering spending by $4.6
billion, or about 7 percent, while also reducing the state’s
business-income tax rate and cutting property taxes.  ‘Oppose and Veto’  Kasich, Corbett and Scott, and previously elected governors
including  Rick Perry  in  Texas , are among 13 who signed a pledge
from Americans for  Tax Reform  to “oppose and veto any and all
efforts to increase taxes.” The Washington-based nonprofit
lobbying organization also considers higher fees a tax increase.  Other governors, including  Chris Christie  in  New Jersey ,
didn’t sign the pledge but repeatedly have vowed not to raise
taxes.  In Ohio, which is spending $50.5 billion in the current
biennium, Kasich faces an estimated shortfall of $8 billion in
the two-year budget that he must introduce by March 15. In that
state, voters by a margin of 58 percent to 28 percent don’t
think he will be able to keep his pledge to balance the budget
without higher taxes and fees, a Quinnipiac  Poll  of registered
voters conducted Jan. 12-17 showed.  Kasich doesn’t comment on polls, Rob Nichols, a spokesman,
said yesterday in an e-mail.  The margin of voters questioning Scott’s promise was 58
percent to 26 percent, according to a poll in  Florida  from Jan.
25-31. Among Pennsylvanians, 53 percent didn’t believe Corbett’s
pledge, according to a  survey  from Dec. 6-13.  ‘I’m a Rube’  The views of voters in other states whose governors have
made no-tax pledges are likely similar, thanks to widespread
cynicism and shortfalls, said John C. Green, director of the
 Bliss Institute of Applied Politics  at Ohio’s  University of
Akron .  Voters are understandably skeptical, said Grover Norquist,
president of  Americans for Tax Reform . However, Kasich and the
other governors made clear during their campaigns that they
wouldn’t raise taxes, and they won anyway, Norquist said.  “People don’t want to say, ‘I’m a rube, I’m trusting, I
believe politicians,’ ” Norquist said last week in a telephone
interview from  Florida , where he was meeting with Scott. If
voters are asked what they want the governor to do, most will
say they want spending cut and not higher taxes, he said.  In Texas, Perry signed the Americans for Tax Reform Pledge,
and although recent surveys haven’t asked whether voters think
Perry will keep his pledge, a  poll  last month by the Dallas
Morning News and other newspapers showed that voters oppose both
new taxes and spending cuts.  One factor in evaluating such results is that there is not
universal agreement about what voters consider a tax increase,
said  Mark P. Jones , chairman of the political science department
at  Rice University  in Houston.  A governor could decide not to raise state-level taxes and
cut spending for education to help balance the budget, for
example, which could cause local school districts to raise taxes
to continue the funding, Jones said.  “For voters, it’s a tax increase,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in New York at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  