-- U.S. Lawmakers Probe Exchange Security in Wake of Nasdaq Breach
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2011-02-08T17:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-s-lawmakers-probe-exchange-security-in-wake-of-nasdaq-breach.html
U.S. House Republicans are seeking
information on computer-network security from regulators and
executives from 10 exchanges and clearinghouses amid claims of
possible computer hacking into a  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc . website.  “The world must have confidence in the technological
security of our financial markets,” Representatives Spencer Bachus of Alabama and  Scott Garrett  of New Jersey said in the
letter dated today.  Bachus, the chairman of the  House Financial Services
Committee , and Garrett, who leads the panel’s capital markets
subcommittee, asked recipients to describe -- without divulging
specific information about their own networks -- what they’re
doing “to ensure the ongoing integrity and security of exchange
trading systems and clearinghouses.” The lawmakers asked that
responses be delivered by Feb. 28.  Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. exchange operator by
market value, said in a Feb. 5 statement that it discovered
suspicious files in its web-based Directors Desk application and
“immediately conducted an investigation, which included outside
forensic firms and U.S. law enforcement.”  None of Nasdaq OMX’s trading platforms were “compromised”
by the files, the New York-based company said.  Bachus and Garrett sent copies of the letter to Nasdaq OMX
Chief Executive Officer Robert Greifeld, as well as Terrence Duffy, the executive chairman of  CME Group Inc ., and William Brodsky, the CEO of the Chicago Board Options Exchange Inc. The
letter also was addressed to CEO Duncan Niederauer of  NYSE
Euronext , the largest U.S. exchange operator, and six other
executives.  Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro
and Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
were also asked to provide information.  Menendez Letter  Nasdaq OMX’s investigation has become a bipartisan issue on  Capitol Hill . U.S. Senator  Robert Menendez , a New Jersey
Democrat, sent a letter to Schapiro yesterday telling her that
the “SEC and other government agencies need to step up and
address these concerns without delay.”  Menendez, in a letter that was also sent to Attorney
General  Eric Holder  and Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, said the SEC should “consider investigating the
extent to which hacking can disrupt trading platforms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  