-- Wildlife Works Wins World’s First Forestry Credits
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2011-02-09T01:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/u-s-retailer-wins-world-s-first-carbon-credits-for-forests.html
(Corrects name of company in first paragraph. This story
was first published on Feb. 8.)  Wildlife Works Carbon LLC , a U.S.
conservation business, said its project to safeguard forests in  Kenya  was the first of its kind to get voluntary carbon credits.  The program in the Kasigau Corridor, a strip of land 360
kilometers (225 miles) southeast of the Kenyan capital, Nairobi,
aims to reduce carbon emissions and help save 500,000 acres
(202,000 hectares) of forest, Wildlife Works said today in an e-
mailed statement. The Wildlife Works project is the first to get
voluntary credits under a forest-protection program known as        
Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degredation, or REDD, 
it said.   South Africa’s  Nedbank Group Ltd . has received credits for 
its initial funding of the effort and had first rights to buy the
credits produced, Kevin Whitfield, head of the African treasuries,
carbon and financial products unit at Nedbank, said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg. The project, started in 2005, issued
its first certificates last night, he said.  The  program  has produced 1.1 million of the so-called
Voluntary Carbon Units and expects to create 200,000 a year,
Gerald Prolman, a San Francisco-based spokesman for Wildlife
Works, said in a separate e-mail.  Forestry Credits  The International Emissions Trading Association and the  World Economic Forum  helped develop the voluntary carbon
standard in 2005. Financial institutions, energy utilities,
manufacturers and retailers from  Europe , the U.S and South
Africa have shown interest in buying the forestry credits from
the Kenyan forestry project and there is “a large quantity of
credits available for sale,” Whitfield said.  Such credits were excluded from the 1997  Kyoto Protocol ,
and a meeting that the United Nations held in Cancun,  Mexico , in
December considered ways of creating carbon forestry credits,
which may be part of a new climate treaty.  The allocation of REDD credits, for Reducing Emissions from
Deforestation and Degradation, offers “unquestionable proof
that sound investment decisions and a strong social and
environmental conscience are by no means mutually exclusive,”
Whitfield said in the statement.  The felling of trees, which absorb carbon dioxide, may
account for as much as 20 percent of man-made greenhouse-gas
emissions, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate
Change .  Russia’s Gazprom Marketing & Trading, a unit of the world’s
largest natural-gas producer, said it is set to receive credits
from a similar project under the REDD program in Kalimantan,
Indonesia, under the same voluntary standard.    Brazil , Indonesia,  Nigeria  and the Democratic Republic of
Congo may be the top producers of REDD credits, according to
analysis from  Barclays Capital . As a result of cutting down
trees, the four countries emit more than 900 million tons of
carbon dioxide annually, or about the same amount spewed each
year from 50 average-sized coal-burning power stations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  