-- UBS Buys Back $1.5 Billion in Auction-Rate Securities in New Jersey Pact
-- B y   A n d r e w   M .   H a r r i s
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ubs-to-repurchase-1-5-billion-in-ars-sold-in-new-jersey.html
Two  UBS AG  units resolved allegations
that they failed to fully disclose the risks of auction rate
securities sold in New Jersey by agreeing to a $1.5 billion
buyback, state Attorney General Paula T. Dow said.  “Disclosure of material facts to the investing public is
not only the law, but is necessary for consumers to make fully
informed decisions about investing their hard-earned money,”
Dow said in a statement announcing the agreement.  In addition to the repurchases by UBS Securities LLC and
UBS Financial Services Inc., Zurich-based UBS will pay New
Jersey $3.7 million in civil penalties, representing the state’s
pro rata share of an agreement negotiated by a multistate task
force of regulators, Dow said.  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. Underwriters and broker-
dealers have been sued since the February 2008 collapse of the
$330 billion market for auction-rate securities.  UBS, according to Dow, marketed the investments as safe and
liquid when they were actually long-term investments subject to
the since-failed auction process.  “UBS is pleased this matter has been resolved,” the
investment bank said in an e-mailed statement. “This is part of
UBS’s ongoing effort to restore liquidity to its ARS clients who
were adversely affected by the failure of the ARS market.”  The  New Jersey  buy-backs are part of the Swiss bank’s 2008
agreement with the  North American Securities Administrators
Association  under which it pledged to purchase $18.6 billion
worth of auction rate securities from institutional investors
and private clients, UBS said in a press statement then.  Joining in that accord were then-New York Attorney General,
now Governor,  Andrew M. Cuomo  and Massachusetts Secretary of
State William Galvin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 