-- UBS's Gruebel Says He's Optimistic on Attracting More Client Funds in 2011
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-02-08T16:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/ubs-net-income-increases-7-as-inflows-climb-for-second-straight-quarter.html
  UBS AG , the Swiss bank that needed a
government rescue in 2008, expects to attract more funds from
wealthy clients this year after recording a second straight
quarterly increase.  “We are optimistic that overall positive net new money
inflows will continue in the first quarter,” Chief Executive
Officer Oswald Gruebel and Chairman Kaspar Villiger said in a
letter to shareholders today. “For the full year, we believe
that net new money will strengthen noticeably.”  UBS rose 4.3 percent in Swiss trading after reporting its
first full-year profit since 2006 and adding a net 6.1 billion
Swiss francs ($6.4 billion) at its wealth-management units in
the final three months of 2010. The Zurich-based bank posted net
income of 1.29 billion francs in the fourth quarter, a 7 percent
increase from a year earlier.  Gruebel, 67, hired new managers and more than 1,700
investment bankers since joining in 2009 to rebuild UBS and stem
customer defections. He said further improvements in profit are
needed and he will stay at least through this year.  Switzerland ’s largest bank saw net withdrawals from its wealth
management units of 251.6 billion francs in the 27 months
through June after losses from the credit crisis, a state
bailout and a U.S. tax probe that forced UBS to hand over names
of rich clients.  “The outlook is that things will get better over the
course of 2011 and we buy that,” said  Simon Maughan , the co-
head of European equities at London-based MF Global Ltd. who has
a “buy” rating on the stock.  Wealth Management Profit  UBS rose 75 centimes to 18.25 francs, the highest level
since September. The stock has gained 19 percent in Swiss
trading this year, in line with the jump at  Credit Suisse Group
AG , the second-largest Swiss bank, and a 13 percent advance in
the 48-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index.  Pretax profit at the wealth management and Swiss bank
division fell 21 percent to 875 million francs in the fourth
quarter, and dropped 52 percent to 135 million francs in asset
management. Wealth management Americas reported a pretax loss of
33 million francs.  Clients in the Americas and in UBS’s retail unit added a
net 3.4 billion francs and 2.7 billion francs in the quarter,
respectively, while the main wealth management division saw
inflows of 1.1 billion francs in Switzerland canceled out by the
same amount of outflows internationally.  Bonus Pool Cut  Pretax profit at the investment bank slumped 75 percent to
75 million francs from a year earlier on higher costs and a 509
million-franc charge related to the bank’s own debt. UBS needs
to increase risk-taking at the securities unit from levels that
were “half the risk of some of our competitors over the last 12
to 18 months” to generate more profits, Gruebel told investors
at a London presentation in November.  UBS said today it expects “some improvement” in the
unit’s trading results in the current quarter compared with the
previous two quarters.  UBS cut the total 2010 bonus pool by 10 percent to 4.3
billion francs after the performance of some divisions “fell
short of our ambitions” in the second half, Chief Financial
Officer John Cryan told reporters on a conference call today.
Employees with total compensation above 250,000 francs will get
at least 60 percent of the bonus in shares deferred over three
years, while members of the executive board will have more than
75 percent of their variable compensation deferred.  Profitability Target  UBS is the world’s second-largest wealth manager after  Charlotte , North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp . Credit
Suisse ranks fifth behind New York-based Morgan Stanley and  Wells Fargo & Co . of  San Francisco , according to a survey by
London-based Scorpio Partnership, which provides research and
analysis on the industry. Wealth managers typically cater to
clients with at least $1 million to invest.  UBS and Credit Suisse are facing an erosion of
profitability in wealth management from an assault on Swiss
banking secrecy and the need to invest in new markets. Wealth
management and retail banking contributed 54 percent of pretax
profit at UBS last year, and may become even more important as
stricter capital rules make  investment banking  more costly.  Gruebel said that measures taken to revamp the  wealth
management  business should make it possible to reach the target
of making more than $1 in revenue on every $100 of assets under
management in 2011. The so-called gross margin was at 92 basis
points in the fourth quarter.  U.S. Tax Probe  The U.S.  Justice Department  in October dismissed its case
against UBS after the expiration of an 18-month deferred
prosecution the bank signed to avoid criminal charges. The U.S.  Internal Revenue Service  dropped a demand for the identities of
Americans who hold secret offshore accounts at UBS in November,
after the bank turned over data on more than 4,000 clients.  Switzerland is negotiating dozens of tax treaties and is in
talks with  Germany  and the U.K. on withholding taxes on money
held in Swiss banks.  UBS, which managed 108 billion francs in Switzerland for
customers from the U.K., Germany,  France ,  Italy  and  Austria  as
of September 2009, said last year these clients withdrew more
than 20 billion francs in the 12 months through September. As
much as 40 billion francs are still at risk from further tax
regulations, the bank told investors in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  