-- UniCredit Said to Pick Ex-SocGen’s Mustier to Succeed Ermotti
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2011-02-08T17:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/unicredit-said-to-pick-mustier-to-succeed-ermotti-as-investment-bank-chief.html
  UniCredit SpA ’s board plans to meet
on Feb. 10 to approve the appointment of Jean-Pierre Mustier as
head of corporate and investment banking to succeed  Sergio Ermotti , people familiar with the discussions said.  Mustier, the former Societe Generale SA investment-banking
chief, received the backing of the bank’s nominations committee
today, said three people, who declined to be identified before
the decision is announced. A UniCredit spokeswoman said the
board is meeting to confirm a candidate, declining to provide
the name. Mustier didn’t immediately return calls.  UniCredit, based in Milan, is seeking to replace Ermotti,
50, who stepped down in October after a management shakeup and
has since joined UBS AG. UniCredit is reviewing its strategy in
some markets and divisions after  Federico Ghizzoni , 55, replaced  Alessandro Profumo , 53, as chief executive officer. Mustier, who
led the  Societe Generale  division that suffered a 4.9 billion-
euro ($6.7 billion) trading loss in 2008, was on a shortlist of
three, which included 48-year-old RHJ International SA CEO
Leonhard Fischer, one of the people said.  “I have doubts about the choice of Mustier because of his
past at SocGen,” said Wolfram Mrowetz, chairman of Alisei SIM
in Milan who oversees 200 million euros including UniCredit
shares. The record trading loss raises questions about his
management ability, he said.  Mustier joined Societe Generale in 1987 in Paris as a stock
options trader. He held positions at the investment bank in
Paris, Tokyo and  Hong Kong  before becoming CEO of the corporate-
and investment bank in 2003. He moved to head the investment-
management division in 2008 after the trading loss and left the
bank in August 2009 amid a probe into  insider trading .  The Autorite des Marches Financiers, the French market
watchdog, fined Mustier 100,000 euros in June for selling shares
of the bank in August 2007. He liquidated most of his equity
portfolio at the same time. Mustier is appealing the ruling.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  