-- Volkswagen Wage Deal For 2010 Won't Ring ECB `Alarm Bells,' Economists Say
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2011-02-08T12:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/volkswagen-wage-deal-for-2010-won-t-ring-ecb-alarm-bells-economists-say.html
  Volkswagen AG ’s decision to raise
wages by 3.2 percent won’t be an immediate concern to European
Central Bank officials worried about increasing inflation
pressures in the euro region, economists said.    Germany ’s biggest automotive employer today agreed to boost
compensation for 100,000 workers in the western part of the
country from May to avert strikes at a time of surging orders.
The deal comes after euro-region inflation accelerated 2.4
percent in January, the fastest since October 2008, and policy
makers signaled concern that rising costs will feed into wages.  “The agreement certainly won’t ring alarm bells at the
ECB,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at
Citigroup Inc in  London . “The automotive sector is booming. It
doesn’t suggest that we’re facing wage inflation and second-
round effects in Germany.”  While the ECB forecast inflation to stay above its 2
percent limit for most of the year, President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled on Feb. 3 that the Frankfurt-based central bank
doesn’t have immediate plans to raise  interest rates . If price
pressures don’t ease by the end of the year, the ECB will have
to tighten monetary policy, Executive Board member Jose Manuel Gonzalez-Paramo told Spain’s ABC newspaper.  Powering the Recovery  Germany, Europe’s largest economy, has powered the region’s
recovery. While the Spanish, Irish and Greek economies
contracted last year, Germany’s expanded at a record pace as
companies boosted production and hiring to meet surging export
demand. Volkswagen said it aims to increase 2011 sales by 5
percent after record 2010 deliveries of 7.14 million vehicles.  European Commission statistics show German unit-labor costs
fell in the four years through 2007 after rising less than 1
percent in each of the previous six years. In the euro region,
costs never showed a drop over that period.  “Higher wage deals only become a problem if they exceed
gains in productivity,” said Stefan Schneider, chief
international economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Frankfurt .
“Volkswagen’s agreement remains within the limits of what was
expected and probably won’t be the benchmark for other
negotiations. There is no reason for concern.”  Germany’s chemical workers union has demanded up to 7
percent more pay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  