-- Wheat Declines As Ukraine’s Winter Grains Escape Cold Damage
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2011-02-08T08:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/wheat-drops-as-winter-crops-in-ukraine-escape-cold-damage-soybeans-gain.html
Wheat futures declined, reversing an
earlier gain, as crops in Ukraine escaped cold-weather damage,
signaling the nation will be able to sustain exports.  March-delivery wheat lost 0.5 percent to $8.5475 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 4:22 p.m.  Singapore  time,
reversing a 0.5 percent gain.  Ukraine’s winter grains escaped damage from snow last week
because plants were protected, researcher UkrAgroConsult said.
The company maintained its forecast for the 2011 harvest at
46.23 million metric tons of grain, including 21 million tons of
wheat, 11.7 million tons of corn and 11 million tons of barley.  “When the market gets positive news about production in
the  Black Sea , then that obviously is going to gain market
attention because they’re a very strong force in the export
market,” Simon Clancy, manager for export brokerage at FCStone  Australia  Pty., said by phone today. “If their crop escapes any
winter damage and is going to become another force in the export
market in the next 12 months, then certainly that’s going to
have an impact on the market.”  Ukraine is the world’s fifth-largest wheat exporter,
according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture . The four
biggest shippers are the U.S., European Union,  Canada  and
Australia, according to the U.S. agency, which does not break up
the data on shipments from the EU.  March-delivery corn was little changed at $6.7475 a bushel
in Chicago after advancing to $6.825 yesterday, the highest
price since July 15, 2008.  Higher corn prices have encouraged some feed millers to use
wheat from Australia instead, Mitch Morison, general manager
commodities for Melbourne-based AWB Ltd., said in an e-mailed
statement today.  High Values  “High corn values are also encouraging feed-grain
customers to focus on Australian feed-wheat in preference,”
Morison said. “Interest for feed in  Europe , Korea and the
Philippines is providing good support to prices and provides a
very positive picture for growers,” he said.  Soybeans for March delivery climbed 0.3 percent to $14.2825
a bushel in  Chicago , the first gain in four days.  The soybean harvest in  Brazil ’s Mato Grosso state, the
nation’s biggest producer, is progressing at a slower pace this
year, the state’s crop research institute said.  Farmers had completed 2.8 percent of the harvest as of Jan.
27, down from 9.9 percent at the same time last year, the
institute said yesterday in an e-mailed report.  Brazil is the world’s largest soybean exporter after the
U.S., according to the USDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  