-- WikiLeaks Backers `Anonymous' to Be Probed by U.S. Grand Jury
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y
-- 2011-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/wikileaks-supporters-face-hunt-for-leaders-in-grand-jury-probe.html
Evidence collected by the FBI about
Anonymous, which attacked websites of four companies to punish
them for blocking contributions to WikiLeaks, will be considered
this week by a U.S. grand jury, according to court papers and an
informal spokesman for the group of activist hackers.  The federal grand jury in  San Jose ,  California , will begin
reviewing evidence tomorrow that includes computers and mobile
phones seized from suspected leaders as prosecutors probe the
coordinated so-called denial-of-service attacks in December,
according to a federal subpoena and the spokesman, Barrett
Brown. Anonymous directed activists to target payment processors  MasterCard Inc .,  Visa Inc .,  EBay Inc .’s PayPal, and U.K.-based
 Moneybookers.com  in public chat rooms.  Among the evidence seized by the FBI during multistate
raids on Jan. 27 was data taken from an individual who controls
one of Anonymous’s primary servers, identified by the
organization only by his cyber-handle ‘Owen,’ Brown said.  “The FBI is breaking down people’s doors with guns
drawn,” said Mara Verheyden-Hilliard, a member of the board of
the  National Lawyers Guild , which has talked with Anonymous
organizers about their legal defense. “A group of people are
engaged in a modern day electronic sit-in, and the FBI wants to
treat that like it’s terrorist activity.”  Anonymous responded on Feb. 6 by hacking a California-based
security firm that it said was aiding the probe, hijacking
60,000 company e-mails and making them public on one of the
organization’s servers. The e-mails included a proposal by the
company to develop a malware tracking program for the U.S.
government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA),
among other confidential documents.  Drawn Guns  Jenny Shearer, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
spokeswoman, said the agency couldn’t comment on the probe or
its targets. She said “it’s not unusual” to have drawn guns
during the execution of a search warrant until “the situation
is secure.”  The subpoena shows federal investigators are trying to
piece together the workings of an elusive group composed of
hundreds of hackers and activists stretched across several
countries. Brown said about a dozen members are able to
influence the direction of  Anonymous .  Agents served a grand jury subpoena on a California man who
goes by the screen name ‘Trivette,’ ordering him to appear
before the panel tomorrow. It demands all information he has on
how the December attacks were organized, including instructions
to activists on how to download software that can overwhelm
websites by inundating them with thousands of service requests a
second.  ‘Names, Handles’  The subpoena requested information on the group’s hierarchy
and structure, including “names, handles, e-mail accounts, or
IP addresses,” according to a copy provided to Bloomberg News
by the organization.  The FBI also raided the home of a 19-year-old Nevada woman,
Brown said. Agents seized two computers, including one owned by
her father, her iPhone, two flash drives and a router, Brown
said.  Among other recent high-profile attacks, Anonymous has
claimed in public statements responsibility for crashing
government websites in Egypt and  Tunisia  to support political
protests.  Brown said the group, whose activities have sparked an
international investigation and five arrests in Britain, is
dedicated to “the defense of liberty.” Its goal is “a
perpetual revolution across the world that goes on until
governments are basically overwhelmed and results in a freer
system,” he said.  History of Retaliation  Several cyber-security experts declined to speak about the
group or its activities on the record because of its history of
retaliating against critics, such as the Feb. 6 attack on a
cyber security firm HBGary Federal, which Anonymous accused of
aiding the government’s investigation.  Shearer, the FBI spokeswoman, declined to comment on any
cooperation between the agency and the security firm.  Aaron Barr, the head of security services for the
Sacramento-based company, was quoted in the Financial Times on
Feb. 4 saying that he had information on the identity of
Anonymous leaders that he planned to release at a cyber
conference this month.  The following day, the group hacked into the company’s
network and took more than 60,000 internal e-mails and began
releasing them last night, Brown said. It also hijacked the
Twitter accounts of HBGary’s employees, using them to post
personal information such as social security numbers and
addresses, he said.  In one e-mail provided by Anonymous, HBGary Chief Executive
Officer Greg Hoglund discussed a possible “60 Minutes”
interview on Anonymous, as well as how the security firm could
use it to their advantage.  Public ‘Hero’  “Position Aaron as a hero to the public,” Hoglund wrote
to Barr and Karen Burke, the firm’s spokeswoman. “I think these
guys are going to get arrested, it would be interesting to leave
the soft impression that Aaron is the one that got them, and
that without Aaron the Feds would have never been able to get
out of their own way.”  Burke declined to comment on that communication or the
other e-mails or whether the firm negotiated with Anonymous to
retrieve the internal communications before they became public,
as the group claimed.  Investigation Continuing  “The investigation into our breach is still ongoing so it
would be premature to comment further at this time,” HBGary
Federal President Penny Leavy said in a statement.  The exposure has the potential to be extremely damaging to
the security company and its reputation, said Susan Freiwald, an
expert on cyber security and law at the University of  San
Francisco .  “It’s a security firm,” Freiwald said. “It’s especially
sensitive for them to be portrayed as insecure.”  The search warrants issued by the FBI in some cases
referred to possible violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse
Act, the main federal anti-hacking statute, Brown said.  The law can be used to prosecute denial-of-service attacks,
according to a Justice Department manual relating to computer
crime and intellectual property posted on the agency website.
Prosecutors must prove an attack caused at least $5,000 in
damage to a company or its operations, a threshold the December
attacks probably meets, Freiwald said.  No One Arrested  No one has been arrested yet in the U.S. in connection with
the probe, Brown said. The Lawyers Guild’s Verheyden-Hilliard
said the attacks against PayPal or MasterCard should be viewed
as a form of modern-day civil disobedience, the equivalent of
blocking a company’s virtual storefront.  Those attacks may have slowed or disabled the companies’
websites temporarily without affecting their payment processing
functions, the companies said.  “Civil disobedience is historically more effective when
the state intervenes in a heavy-handed way,” said Ryan Calo, an
expert in cyber crime at  Stanford University  in Stanford,
California. “It is not just the act but also all the follow-up
-- the subpoenas, arrests, a trial. That’s all part of the act
of civil disobedience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Riley in  Washington  at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 