-- Two Bell, California, Officials Decline Plea Deals in Probe of Corruption
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2011-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/two-bell-california-officials-decline-plea-deals-county-prosecutor-says.html
Two of the eight former and current
 Bell ,  California , officials facing accusations of
misappropriating public funds rejected plea deals they were
offered after contacting the  Los Angeles  County District
Attorney, a prosecutor said.  Deputy District Attorney Jennifer Snyder, in a phone
interview yesterday, declined to identify the two defendants and
to disclose the terms of the plea bargains they were offered.
She said it wasn’t uncommon for defendants to approach
prosecutors to inquire about a possible deal.  The Los Angeles Times, citing George Mgdesyan, a lawyer for
one of the defendants, reported yesterday that plea agreements
calling for two-year prison terms were offered to six of the
officials. Mgdesyan didn’t immediately return a call from
Bloomberg News yesterday.  The eight current and former officials were arrested
Sept. 21 in an investigation of high salaries that the leaders
of the Los Angeles suburb are accused of having paid themselves.
Former City Manager  Robert Rizzo  was charged with a total of 53
counts of misappropriating public funds and conflict of
interest.  Rizzo, who was paid about $800,000 a year, was accused of
writing his own employment contracts, which were never approved
by the city council. He wasn’t one of the defendants offered a
plea deal, the L.A. Times said. The eight suspects, including
the city’s mayor, misappropriated $5.5 million, prosecutors said
in September.  Poverty Line  A city of 38,000 where almost one in six residents lives
below the poverty line, Bell made national headlines in July
when the Times disclosed Rizzo’s salary.  An audit by the state’s controller found that the city
illegally raised taxes, mismanaged bond funds and entered into
improper contracts and land purchases. In addition to the
criminal charges, Rizzo and seven others face a civil lawsuit
filed by the state attorney general’s office Sept. 15.  The criminal case is People v. Rizzo, BA376026, Los Angeles
County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 