-- Dollar to Rise Against Yen as Investors Return to Carry Trade, RBS Says
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-02-08T23:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/yen-to-decline-as-investors-return-to-carry-trade-rbs-says.html
The yen may slump against the dollar
in 2011, after gaining last year, as traders shift to using the
Japanese currency to fund investments in higher-yielding assets,
according to Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc.  Investors should look for opportunities to bet the yen will
fall against the U.S. currency,  Canada ’s dollar and the  Singapore dollar , said Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at RBS  Australia  in Sydney. Rising strength in the  U.S. economy  and
Japanese investors allocating more savings to higher-yielding
investments will lead foreign and Japanese investors to sell the
yen to buy dollar-denominated assets, he said.  “The prospect of any rate rise in Japan is so far away
that at some point over the next year it will return as a
funding currency,” Gibbs said in a telephone interview.  Japan has held its benchmark interest rate at 0.1 percent
since December 2008. The yield spread between two-year U.S. and
Japanese government securities touched 63 basis points
yesterday, or 0.63 percentage point, the widest since June.  The yen gained 3.2 percent over the past year among 10
developed-nation currencies, according to Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. It weakened 2 percent over the past month,
they showed, and traded yesterday at 82.36 per dollar in  New
York .  Household investors in Japan allocated double the amount of
assets to mutual funds in 2010 as they did in 2009, according to
an RBS note to clients that Gibbs wrote yesterday, citing the
Investment Trust Association.  “Japanese investors over the past year have got more
confident using the yen, conducting their own form of the carry
trade, which is basically capital outflow,” he said.  In carry trades, investors borrow money in countries with
low  interest rates  to invest in higher-yielding assets.  “I think that may be the case which will encourage
increased outflows from Japan and possibly other foreign
investors using the yen as their funding base as well,” Gibbs
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  