-- Hyundai Motor Turns to Group Steel Unit to Hit Fuel-Economy Goal
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2011-02-08T01:10:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-02-08/hyundai-motor-turns-to-group-steel-unit-in-quest-for-higher-fuel-economy.html
  Hyundai Motor Co ., drawing on ties to  Hyundai Steel Co ., plans to more than double the proportion of
high-strength steel used in its vehicles by 2015 as the carmaker
seeks higher fuel efficiency and lower weight across its lineup.  By using advanced forms of the metal that match or exceed
other Korean and Japanese steelmakers’ alloys in cost and
performance, Hyundai Motor will raise the ratio of high-tensile
steel in vehicles to 50 percent from 18 percent, said Cho Won Suk, senior executive vice president of research at Incheon,
South Korea-based Hyundai Steel. The carmaker is counting on 300
metallurgists and steel researchers at Hyundai Steel to create
high-strength, light alloys tailored to its models, he said.  “Hyundai Motor has great ambition to reduce car body
weight,” Cho said in an interview last week. “Light-weighting
designs will be one of the most important factors in enhancing
fuel economy.”  Rules intended to cut  carbon emissions  linked to  climate
change , along with oil-price swings, are pushing automakers to
develop more efficient engines and lighter vehicle frames. In
the U.S, where Seoul-based Hyundai Motor was the fastest-growing
mass-market automaker last year, regulators are working on rules
that may require fuel economy of 47 miles per gallon to 62 mpg
by 2025, compared with a 27.3 mpg requirement for 2011 models.  Third Mill  Hyundai Steel, 21 percent owned by the carmaker’s affiliate  Kia Motors Corp ., is adding a third mill with at least 100 more
metallurgists to help Hyundai Motor cut vehicle-frame weight 10
percent by 2015, Cho said.  Hyundai Motor’s fuel-efficiency strategy revolves around
lighter vehicles and small, direct-injection and turbo-charged
engines such as those used in its Sonata sedan and Elantra small
cars, said  John Krafcik , head of the carmaker’s U.S. sales unit.  Shares in Hyundai Motor rose 1.1 percent to 187,000 won as
of 9:46 a.m. in Seoul. Hyundai Steel rose 2.6 percent to 140,500
won.  For Hyundai Motor, the benefits of an affiliated steel
company are stable supply, faster development time for products
and the ability to resolve quality issues quickly, Cho said.  No other major carmaker boasts as close a relationship with
its steel unit, let alone one closely integrated with its auto
engineers, to design and supply needed materials, he said.  Hyundai Motor chief  Chung Mong Koo  is also chairman of Kia
and Hyundai Steel. Chung, 72, holds a 12.5 percent stake in the
steelmaker as well as 5.2 percent of Hyundai Motor, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among smaller automakers, India’s Tata Motors Ltd. is part
of the Tata Group, which includes Tata Steel Ltd.  Best Option  Using more so-called high-tensile strength steel appears to
be the best option for meeting weight and safety improvements,
said  Eric Noble , president of industry consultant The Car Lab in
Orange,  California .  Alternatives such as aluminum, magnesium or carbon fiber
“are too expensive or unproven for high-volume manufacturing,”
Noble said.  Hyundai Steel opened two mills in 2010 capable of supplying
8 million tons per year of the metal. The third blast furnace
will have an annual capacity of 4 million tons.  Of the total capacity of the three mills, steel used in
cars and home appliances will account for about 8.5 million tons,
part of which will go to Hyundai Motor and Kia.  Hyundai isn’t alone in pushing for rapid improvements in
high-strength steel and may trail Japanese and European rivals.  ThyssenKrupp AG ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, is an industry
leader in specialized, light alloys for autos, Noble said.  ‘Low-Hanging Fruit’  “It’s unlikely there’s a lot of low-hanging fruit for
Hyundai’s metallurgists,” Noble said. “Steel is not a new
material in the  auto industry .”  Honda Motor Co., Hyundai’s rival for U.S. fuel-economy
leadership, began using high-strength steel in 2001, and Honda
and Acura models built in North America already contain about 50
percent high-strength steel, said Robert Zummallen, a principal
engineer for Honda’s U.S. design group in Raymond, Ohio.  The new Alabama-built Odyssey minivan that went on sale in
2010 contains 59 percent high-strength steel, Honda said.  Hyundai Motor also buys steel from South Korea’s  Posco , the
world’s third-largest steelmaker, Japan’s Nippon Steel Corp. and  JFE Holdings Inc ., said Cho, who has a doctorate in metal
engineering from the University of Michigan in  Ann Arbor .  Hyundai Motor’s access to its own steel unit may help it
negotiate better prices with suppliers, said Chu Wu Jin, a
professor at Seoul National University who studies the auto
industry.  Hyundai Steel’s standard grades of hot-rolled steel cost
about 900,000 won ($815) a ton, according to data from the
company. Average costs for high-strength alloys aren’t available
as prices generally are negotiated directly between carmakers
and suppliers, said Ron Krupitzer, vice president of the
American Iron & Steel Institute unit that promotes the use of
advanced steel grades for automobiles.  Hyundai Motor began providing fuel-economy data this month
for its U.S. lineup based on sales, using  U.S. Corporate Average
Fuel Economy , or CAFE, rules, an industry first. Hyundai-brand
autos averaged 34.7 mpg in January using the CAFE methodology.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in  Seoul  at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  