-- Abramovich Partner Zhukova Shows Koolhaas Gallery Plans
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-27T16:23:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/abramovich-partner-zhukova-shows-koolhaas-gallery-plans.html
Rem Koolhaas , a Pritzker Prize-
winning architect, today presented his plans to convert an
abandoned Moscow restaurant into a new art space for the Garage
Center for Contemporary Culture, founded by Dasha Zhukova.  Zhukova -- whose partner is the Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich  -- founded Garage as a contemporary-art nonprofit
organization in Moscow in 2008. Earlier this year, Garage left
its base in the Bakhmetevsky Bus Garage for Moscow’s Gorky Park,
where the ruined 1960s restaurant, a modernist structure of
prefabricated concrete, is located.  Koolhaas said the project fit in with the “polemic”
started by his architecture practice OMA on the theme of art
institutions “getting bigger and bigger.”  “Scale is not necessarily productive for art,” said
Koolhaas in a presentation held at London’s Institute of
Contemporary Arts. “If you look at the Serpentine Gallery,
small can work extremely well.”  Koolhaas said the once-popular restaurant, where he himself
sampled “Soviet” food back in the day, was now “a ruin, but
not a very old ruin.” The site was “incredibly polluted,” and
he was “shocked by the amount of neglect.”  Beauty of Decay  “Neglect is quite picturesque and offers insights into the
beauty of decay,” he said, pointing out that he planned to keep
the original tiles, decoration and other “traces of  Russia ’s
recent history” and push for the “rescue” of other buildings
from the Sixties and Seventies around the world.  Zhukova, who co-hosted the news conference, said she had
been seeking a more central location for Garage. The Koolhaas
project, she said, “defines Russian identity: We’re taking the
past and not ignoring it, and creating a new future.”  Koolhaas was her choice, she said, because “I like the way
he thinks.” She wouldn’t give figures on the cost of the
conversion.  The space, due to finish next year, will have flexible
exhibition galleries on two levels as well as a cafe, shop,
auditorium and education center.  Asked which artists she wanted to show in the gallery,
Zhukova said her “dream” would be to exhibit the work of
sculptor Richard Serra.  Also working on the project at the Vremena Goda (“Seasons
of the Year”) restaurant is the young Russian practice Form
Bureau.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg ’s NYC Weekend and
 Greg Evans  on movies.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 