-- Lacker Sees Fed May Need to Raise Rates in Mid-2013
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/lacker-sees-fed-may-need-to-raise-rates-in-mid-2013.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said the U.S. central bank may need to
increase the benchmark interest rate by the middle of next year
to curb inflation as the economic expansion gains strength.  “My current assessment is that an increase in  interest
rates  is likely to be necessary by mid-2013 in order to prevent
the emergence of inflationary pressures,” Lacker said today in
a statement on the regional bank’s website.  The Richmond Fed chief cast the only vote against a Federal
Open Market Committee statement on April 25 that economic
conditions will warrant keeping the benchmark interest rate at
“exceptionally low levels” at least through late 2014.  Lacker has voted against all three FOMC policy statements
this year as Fed officials weigh when they will need to raise
the main interest rate from near zero. Lacker said in a March 16
statement the central bank will probably need to tighten next
year, and on Jan. 27 said he didn’t see a compelling case for
more stimulus.  U.S. economic growth will probably accelerate to about 3
percent next year, the Richmond Fed chief said in an April 4
Bloomberg Television interview.  Fed policy makers on April 25 affirmed their 2014 interest
rate plan after a two-day meeting in  Washington . They refrained
from new actions to lower borrowing costs and said that they
expect growth to gradually accelerate. The committee also said
the jobless rate isn’t declining fast enough.  Unemployment Outlook  Officials lowered their forecast for unemployment, which
they project will average 7.8 percent to 8 percent in the final
three months of this year, according to central tendency
estimates, which exclude the three highest and three lowest
projections. That’s down from a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5
percent in January.  Seven of 17 Fed officials expect borrowing costs to remain
below 1 percent at the end of 2014, down from nine in January.  Ten officials vote on the policy statement, while the
interest-rate and economic projections reflect the views of all
17 FOMC participants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  