-- Macquarie Expects Recovery After Profit Falls
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-04-27T06:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/macquarie-expects-recovery-after-profit-falls.html
Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s
largest investment bank, said it’s relying on cost cuts to
revive earnings after a slump in trading income and dealmaking
dragged full-year net income to an eight-year low.  Profit at all units in the year to March 2013 will either
improve or remain steady as expenses fall, Macquarie forecast
today. Earnings in the year ended March 31 dropped 24 percent to
A$730 million ($757 million) as economic uncertainty weighed on
divisions that trade securities, manage share sales and advise
on takeovers, the Sydney-based bank said in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Nicholas Moore  said in an interview
there are few signs of a rebound in trading volumes or
acquisitions, features of a global economic slowdown that have
already weighed on profit at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Deutsche Bank AG. As Moore squeezes his less
profitable divisions, the 26-year Macquarie veteran is banking
on reliable income from funds management, leasing and financing
units until a recovery takes hold.  “If this is as bad as it gets, it’s still a very
profitable organization,” said Peter Esho, Sydney-based chief
market analyst at City Index Ltd., a London-based provider of
trading services in bonds, stocks and commodities. “When things
turn around, sure, the earnings will look better, but this is a
Macquarie that’s sitting back and its destiny is determined by
the market.”  Macquarie today rose 3 percent to A$29.27 at the close in
Sydney, extending the year’s advance to 23 percent. That’s
better than the 7.5 percent increase on the S&P/ASX 200 index.  Macquarie’s ‘Weakness’  Macquarie said earnings contributions from the banking,
securities and advisory businesses, as well as the fixed income,
currencies and commodities unit, known as FICC, are set to rise
this fiscal year, as long as markets don’t deteriorate. The
results at Macquarie Funds and Corporate and Asset Finance will
“broadly” match those of last fiscal year, when profit jumped
36 percent and 22 percent, respectively, it said.  In a phone interview, Moore described Macquarie Securities,
which runs a worldwide equities trading business, and Macquarie
Capital, the advisory division, as the bank’s “weakness” in
the current market.  “For those businesses to fire, we do need confidence,” he
said. “At the moment, we’re not seeing a pickup on the
securities side, and on the advisory side, things are quiet. Our
cost base is such that if everything is exactly the same from a
market viewpoint, we’ll make more money this year than last
year. The annuity-style businesses continue to perform well.”  There may already be signs of improvement in some parts of
the bank. Profit in the second half of Macquarie’s fiscal year
jumped 39 percent to A$425 million from the first six months,
driven by the FICC business, Macquarie said in a statement.  ‘Signs of Improvement’  Goldman Sachs Chief Financial Officer David A. Viniar said
April 17 he was encouraged by “early signs of improvement” in
markets, even after a 23 percent drop in first-quarter profit.
In the U.S., the world’s largest economy, the  Federal Reserve 
this week released improved estimates for economic growth and
unemployment this year. The labor and housing markets have shown
signs of improvement, and growth will “pick up gradually,” the
 Federal Open Market Committee  said April 25.  The value of mergers and acquisitions worldwide fell for a
third straight quarter to $442 billion in the first three months
of 2012, making it the slowest three-month period in 2 1/2
years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Australia, still Macquarie’s largest market even after
an expansion into  North America , dealmaking is on course for a
second year of declines, the data show. Equity offerings in
Australia and New Zealand last year dropped to their lowest
level since 2002, according to the data.  Cost Cuts  Disproportionately high expenses are the “key issue”
facing Macquarie at a time when earnings are declining,  James Ellis , an analyst in Sydney at Credit Suisse Group AG, said in
an April 18 note.  Moore cut operating costs by 8 percent and jobs by 1,354 in
the year ended March 31, taking the workforce to 14,202. The
profit contribution from Macquarie Capital more than halved to
A$85 million while Macquarie Securities swung to a loss of A$194
million. Moore plans to cut the running costs of those units by
as much as 25 percent in the two years to March 2013.  According to Esho at City Index, Macquarie may struggle to
attract investors unless it improves its return on equity.  That ratio, a measure of how effectively the bank reinvests
earnings, dropped to 6.8 percent in the year ended March 31 from
8.8 percent a year earlier. That’s less than half the return
delivered by Australia’s three largest commercial banks,
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia , Westpac Banking Corp. and
Australia &  New Zealand  Banking Group Ltd., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Macquarie said in February it had exited institutional
derivatives in the U.S., U.K.,  Asia  and  South Africa  and listed
public derivatives in  Germany . It also shut derivatives
businesses in Paris, Munich and Zurich, as well as some U.S.
operations, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  