-- Thai Stock Index May Rally 12% More, Kasikorn Says
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-27T03:50:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/thai-stock-index-may-rally-12-more-kasikorn-says.html
Thailand ’s  stocks  may gain a
further 12 percent as a rebound in consumption and investment
following the nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years boosts
corporate earnings, according to  Kasikorn Securities Co.   The benchmark SET Index may climb to as high as 1,350 in
the third quarter, Kavee Chukitkasem, an investment strategist
at top-ranked Kasikorn Securities, said in a phone interview
today. That would be highest level since April 1996. Investors
should buy banks and energy shares, which may lead gains in the
index as loan growth accelerates and fuel prices climb, he said.  “Thai equities still have more room to gain with a fast
rebound in consumer and business spending following the
floods,” said Kavee. “Earnings of banks and  oil companies  will
sustain solid growth after their spectacular performance in the
first quarter.”  The  SET Index (SET)  has jumped 18 percent this year, the third-
best performer in  Southeast Asia , as overseas investors  bought  a
net $2.7 billion of Thai shares on optimism the government’s
increased spending on reconstruction after the floods will
bolster investment and consumption. Prime Minister Yingluck
Shinawatra has pledged to spend 350 billion baht ($11 billion)
on infrastructure and the  Bank of Thailand  cut  interest rates  to
spur economic growth.  Correction First  Kavee joins  Mark Mobius , chairman of  Franklin Templeton ’s
Emerging Markets Group, in favoring Thai equities. Mobius, who
oversees more than $40 billion, said on April 5 he is
“overweight” on Thai shares and recommended banks and energy
stocks.  Kasikorn Securities, a unit of  Kasikornbank Pcl (KBANK) , Thailand’s
fourth-biggest commercial lender, was ranked the nation’s top
research house in the latest survey by the  Securities Analysts
Association , a Bangkok-based equity analysts group.  Kavee in June predicted a rally in Thai shares following
the general election. The SET Index surged 4.7 percent on July
4, the biggest gain in 14 months at that time, after Yingluck’s
Pheu Thai party won a landslide victory.  Still, the benchmark stock index may drop as much as 10
percent this quarter after recent rallies, said Kavee.  ‘Risky Period’  “The stock market is in the risky period for a big
correction as many companies’ valuations are far above their
historical average,” said Kavee. “The market’s short hiccup
will pave the way for further rallies later this year.”  Thai  stocks  traded at their narrowest  discount  to their
Asian  peers  in more than three months. The SET Index’s price-to-
estimated earnings was at 12.55 times, compared with 12.61 times
for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index on April 24, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  His top picks include  Siam Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) , after the
nation’s third-biggest bank by assets reported “strong
earnings” in the first quarter. The bank on April 18 posted  net
income  of 10.34 billion baht ($335 million) in the three months
ended March 31, higher than the 9.03 billion-baht average
estimate of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Kavee recommended  PTT Pcl (PTT) , the country’s biggest energy
company, as high fuel prices will boost profit at its refinery
units. He also likes  Amata Pcl (AMATA) , the largest developer of
industrial land, and  Home Product Center Pcl (HMPRO) , the No.1 retailer
of home improvement hardware.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  