-- Air Canada Jumps Most Since July 2009 on Profit Optimism
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2012-04-27T21:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/air-canada-jumps-most-since-july-2009-on-profit-optimism.html
Air Canada (AC/A) , the country’s largest
carrier, jumped the most in more than two years after posting a
preliminary first-quarter profit that exceeded estimates from
three analysts.  The company’s Class B  shares  soared 16 percent to 96
Canadian cents by the close of trading in Toronto, their biggest
one-day gain since July 2009. More than 3.2 million shares
traded, double the daily average of the past six months.  Air Canada, while saying first-quarter results will include
charges tied to the restructuring of its former maintenance unit
now called Aveos Fleet Performance Inc., reported earnings and
cash generation that were stronger than expected, said Chris Murray, an analyst at PI Financial Corp.  “Charges remain in line with our estimates,” Murray said.
“We expect that a large portion of heavy maintenance expenses
originally expected in the first quarter may have been deferred
to future periods given the situation with Aveos.”  Murray has a buy rating on Air Canada, whose parent  ACE
Aviation Holdings Inc. (ACE/A)  sold control of the technical-services
unit that became Aveos to private-equity investors in 2007.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization
and rent, a closely watched measure of profitability, probably
were C$170 million ($173 million) to C$180 million, Montreal-
based Air Canada said yesterday in a statement. That compares
with C$207 million a year earlier.  ‘Clearly Positive’  Ben Cherniavsky, an analyst at Raymond James Ltd. in
 Vancouver , was expecting profit of C$166 million, according to a
note to clients today. PI Financial’s Murray had projected C$101
million, while National Bank Financial’s Cameron Doerksen
estimated C$34 million, they said in separate notes.  “The preliminary expectations for the first quarter are
clearly positive,” said Doerksen, who has a sector perform
 rating  on the stock. Air Canada reported net losses in seven of
the previous nine quarters through the end of 2011.  Aveos was the carrier’s lone provider of airframe
maintenance. It put about 2,600 employees out of work when it
shut plants and filed for insolvency protection on March 19. Air
Canada later said it may be required to pay severance to as many
as 1,500 unionized workers at Montreal-based Aveos.  Cash and short-term investments totaled C$2.25 billion on
March 31, Air Canada said in the statement. That’s C$135 million
more than a year earlier.  First-quarter figures are preliminary, haven’t been
reviewed by Air Canada’s auditors and are subject to change, the
company said. Air Canada plans to release quarterly results May
4.  Supplier Network  The company has sent several aircraft to both Canadian and
international maintenance providers since Aveos closed. The
carrier is working with about 40 Canadian suppliers, in addition
to foreign companies, for engines and aircraft components
maintenance.  Air Canada earlier this month asked  Air France-KLM Group (AF)  to
perform maintenance work on the landing gear of one of its
Airbus SAS A330 jets, Brigitte Barrand, a spokeswoman for the
Paris-based company, said today in an e-mail. Air France-KLM has
been doing engine repair work for Air Canada for several years,
and would be ready to take on more maintenance contracts, she
said.  Air Canada also said it’s looking for new suppliers to
perform “longer-term” maintenance previously done by Aveos.
Preference will be given to companies that have or will
establish some portion of their operations in Montreal;
Vancouver; Toronto; and Winnipeg, Manitoba, the company said.  The closing of Aveos “will allow Air Canada to reduce its
aircraft maintenance expenses over the long-term,” National
Bank Financial’s Doerksen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in  Montreal  at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  