-- Airbus Says French Banks Tap External Funds for Aircraft Finance
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-04-27T09:00:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/airbus-says-french-banks-tap-external-funds-for-aircraft-finance.html
Airbus SAS said French banks have
remained active in aircraft financing by shifting their role
toward structuring deals with outside money rather than
committing funds themselves.  “The French banks are still there: we shouldn’t write them
off completely,” Nigel Taylor, the European planemaker’s head
of financing, said in an interview at a conference in Barcelona.  Three of the four major French banks,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,
Natexis and Calyon, continue to do “quite a lot of business,”
with a mix of financing from their own books and some draws on
external funding, Taylor said.  Airbus, the world’s biggest commercial aircraft maker,
plans to deliver about a record 570 planes this year up from 534
last year, and already has financing lined up for about 50
percent of the deliveries planned for the second half, Taylor
said. Orders that have financing in place involve export credit
drawing on state guarantees and sale leaseback arrangements,
where airlines buy planes and then sell them to lessors, who
lease them to airlines for monthly rental payments.  “There’s still plenty of cash out there,” he said.  French banks have played a key role in aircraft finance
globally, contributing between 15 percent to 20 percent of all
financing commitments for commercial aircraft.  China Option  Societe Generale (GLE)  said in late 2011 it would retreat from
aircraft lending.  BNP, Natexis and Calyon have “great teams, they have
expertise and can go out and find pockets of money and put it
together,” Taylor said.  Though Chinese banks had been touted as an alternative
source of financing when French banks showed signs of pulling
back, non-Chinese airlines haven’t rushed to that market because
financing there is costly, Taylor said.  “Chinese banks are still quite expensive,” he said.
“Their funding strategy is totally determined by the central
bank, so they’re not really free to go and compete. They’ve been
strong in supporting Chinese deliveries but it hasn’t gone much
further than that.”  Banks in other parts of the Asia-Pacific region, including
Malaysia, Japan and  Australia , have raised their profile in
aircraft lending, he said.  “The Japanese are going to be a pretty powerful source of
funding because they have access to long-term dollars,” Taylor
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Barcelona via 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net . 