-- Malawi to Devalue Kwacha 40% to Unlock Aid by Meeting IMF Terms
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   F r a n k   J o m o
-- 2012-04-27T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/malawi-to-devalue-kwacha-40-to-meet-imf-conditions-unlock-aid.html
Malawi will devalue its currency,
the kwacha, by 40 percent to unlock blocked aid by meeting
conditions set by the  International Monetary Fund , President
Joyce Banda said.  The government has resumed relations with the U.K. and held
talks with the IMF, World Bank and U.S. after the death of Bingu wa Mutharika, the leader who clashed with western donors, Banda
said. She was sworn-in as president of the southern African
nation this month after Mutharika died of a heart attack on
April 5.  “We are willing to devalue, they are willing to begin the
process of engaging with us,” she said in an interview
yesterday in  Pretoria ,  South Africa ’s capital. “The sad bit is
that we were advised to devalue three years ago. We didn’t
listen, so now we have to do it all at once.”  Malawi is struggling to ease food and fuel shortages and
win back support from international donors after Mutharika
rejected IMF advice and a police crackdown against protesters
last year led to the death of 19 people. The southern African
nation relies on foreign aid for more than 40 percent of its
budget.  While the former government devalued the kwacha by 10
percent in December, the move wasn’t enough to help alleviate a
lack of foreign currency that has worsened a fuel shortage.  Foreign donors are willing to restart providing funds and
the  World Bank  may offer a grant to cushion the impact of a
sudden devaluation on the economy, Banda said. A donor
conference was held in  Washington  this week, she said.  “The donors, they are only waiting for a letter from the
IMF to tell them to go ahead,” Banda said.  Expelled Envoy  The U.K., the African nation’s biggest donor, ended ties
with Malawi after Mutharika expelled its envoy and the U.S.
stopped aid because of the police response to last year’s
protests. The U.K. resumed ties on April 25.  Banda, 62, became Africa’s second female president on April
7, and leads a nation of about 16 million people. Malawi is one
of the world’s poorest countries with a gross domestic product
of about $5 billion, according to the World Bank. It exports
burley tobacco and is  Africa ’s second-largest tea producer after
 Kenya .  The kwacha lost 1.8 percent against the dollar this year,
and traded at 166.52 per unit of the American currency at 8:10
p.m. in Lilongwe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Jomo in Blantyre at 
 fjomo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  