-- Allianz Holds Exclusive Talks With Groupama on Unit Deal
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-04-27T14:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/allianz-holds-exclusive-talks-with-groupama-on-unit-deal.html
Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Germany ’s biggest
insurer, entered exclusive negotiations with France’s Groupama
SA to buy the brokerage activities of its industrial insurance
unit.  The potential acquisition would exclude Gan Eurocourtage’s
transport business, Allianz and Paris-based Groupama said in a
three-line joint e-mailed  statement  today, which didn’t provide
further information.  The French company is scaling back some businesses after it
swung to a loss last year on Greek debt writedowns. Groupama
agreed in December to sell part of its stake in real-estate
company  Silic SA (SIL)  to French state-owned lender Caisse des Depots
et Consignations, which also injected 300 million euros ($398
million) in Gan Eurocourtage by subscribing to preferred shares.  Groupama also has put its private-equity funds and its U.K.
insurance business up for sale, Chief Executive Officer Thierry Martel said on March 15. While the company wants to focus on its
main markets, especially  France  and  Italy , it will stop
targeting acquisitions for international expansion, he said.  Swiss Re, the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, was also
interested in buying GAN Eurocourtage, along with private equity
firms Apax Partners LLP and PAI Partners, for about 600 million
euros, Reuters reported on April 24. Groupama initially wanted
to raise 700 million euros from the sale,  Financial Times
Deutschland  reported on March 29, citing unidentified people.  Groupama, owned by a group of French regional insurers, had
a 1.8 billion-euro net loss in 2011 as it booked 1.55 billion
euros in writedowns from Greek sovereign debt and 1.5 billion
euros of losses on equity holdings.  Munich-based Allianz is one of the world’s biggest
industrial insurers, which help protect commercial customers
with coverage including liability, technical, fire and transport
insurance. It competes with companies such as New York-based
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) ’s Chartis Inc. division and
Talanx AG, Germany’s third-biggest insurer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  