-- Man Charged in Guggenheim Name Scam Won’t Serve Jail Time
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-27T22:29:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/man-charged-in-phony-guggenheim-scam-pleads-guilty-in-n-y-.html
Vladimir Zuravel, one of three
people charged with posing as members of the wealthy Guggenheim
family in a plan to swindle investors through phony billion-
dollar deals, pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor and was sentenced
to one year probation.  Prosecutors charged Zuravel, David Birnbaum and Catarina
Pietra Toumei in January 2011 with a scheme to use the
Guggenheim name to lure investors into fake investments in oil,
bank guarantees, diamonds and gold. They claimed Zuravel, an
immigrant from Moldova, used the name “Vladimir Z.
Guggenheim.”  In a hearing yesterday in  Manhattan  federal court, Zuravel
pleaded guilty to a single misdemeanor count of criminal
contempt, according to court records. Zuravel admitted that in a
separate civil case he disobeyed a judge’s order barring the
group from using the Guggenheim name.  Charges against Birnbaum, who allegedly used the name
“David B. Guggenheim,” were dropped in September. Toumei, a
California woman, is seeking a deferred prosecution, her lawyer
said in an April 25 letter to the court. If granted, a deferred
prosecution would allow Toumei to resolve the case without a
criminal conviction.  When prosecutors filed the original charges, they said the
three defendants tried to use the Guggenheim name to enter
business relationships with former presidents  George H.W. Bush 
and  George W. Bush , the Iraqi Ministry of Oil and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Zuravel, who claimed to be Birnbaum’s adopted son, told the
court at the time that the criminal charges were the result of
“just a simple mix-up.”  The Guggenheim family is descended from Meyer Guggenheim, a
Swiss immigrant who made a fortune in mining and smelting in the
19th century. They are known for charitable giving, including
the establishment of the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in  New
York .  The case is U.S. v. Toumei, 11-Mag.-207, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 