-- Man Group Jumps on Analyst Recommendations, Bid Potential
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 2012-04-27T16:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/man-group-jumps-on-analyst-recommendations-bid-potential-1-.html
Man Group Plc (EMG) , the world’s biggest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager, jumped the most since
November 2010 in London trading as analysts recommended buying
the shares on prospects for better returns and a potential bid.  The stock rose 14 percent to 107 pence at the 4:30 p.m.
close, giving the company a market value of 1.9 billion pounds
($3 billion). Michael Sanderson, an analyst for  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) , raised the shares to buy from hold today, saying performance
should improve and a takeover can’t be ruled out. Barclays Plc
reiterated an overweight, or buy, recommendation.  “Negative momentum is too great given the proven
fundamentals for the business,” London-based Sanderson wrote in
an e-mailed note today. “Upside could emerge from further cost
reductions. A bid for the company, while more likely than in the
past, remains in our view a low probability outcome.”  The world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager was
valued at 0.65 times net assets earlier this week before
takeover speculation lifted Man Group’s stock from its lowest
price in more than a decade, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The London-based company also had about $1.7 billion
in cash, more than any investment management firm in the
industrialized world relative to its market value.  Arnaud Giblat, a London-based analyst at UBS, said in a
report on April 23 that Man Group could be attractive to a
bidder because of its sales and distribution relationships in
 Japan  and the rest of  Asia .  Less Short Interest  Some 4.6 percent of Man Group’s shares outstanding have
been loaned out, an indication of demand from short sellers
betting the stock would decline, according to  Data Explorers , a
London-based research firm. On April 24, that figure reached 5
percent, the highest since November 2009.  Man Group’s shares tumbled over the past 12 months as the
computers that run its $21 billion flagship AHL strategy failed
to spot profitable trades and  Europe ’s debt crisis caused
clients to withdraw money.  Barclays analysts Daniel Garrod and Toni Dang said in a
note today that the shares may reach 145 pence apiece. They
wrote that concern about “accelerating outflows” are
unwarranted as many guaranteed products have investors locked in
until 2018. Any turnaround in fund performance will show the
shares have been “oversold,” they added.  Laura Humble, a spokeswoman for Man Group, has declined to
comment on the shares’ move or on takeover speculation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  