-- Manhattan Apartment Building Prices at Peak as Rents Jump
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-04-27T16:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/manhattan-apartment-building-prices-at-peak-as-rents-jump.html
Real estate investors competing to
buy  Manhattan  apartment buildings have sent prices to record
highs as rental demand surges, reducing yields on the properties
to the lowest in more than six years.  The capitalization rate, a measure of investment return
that declines as prices rise, averaged 4.4 percent for Manhattan
multifamily buildings in first three months of this year, the
lowest since the third quarter of 2005, according to New York-
based data firm Real Capital Analytics Inc.  “It’s the strongest of all asset classes,” said Doug Harmon, senior managing director at Eastdil Secured LLC, who
brokered deals for six Manhattan apartment properties priced at
more than $100 million in the past 13 months. “There is still
plenty of room to run on rents, and I see absolutely no reason
why this action will or should stop anytime soon.”  Investors including  UDR Inc. (UDR)  and  Kuwait ’s social-security
system are homing in on rental buildings as stricter mortgage-
lending standards limit home purchases. Tenant demand for
Manhattan apartments drove the median rent in the first quarter
up 7.1 percent from a year earlier to $3,100 a month, the
largest annual gain since 2007, appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and
brokerage Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate said. New
leases jumped 14 percent.  The vacancy rate for borough apartments was 1.22 percent at
the end of last month, brokerage  Citi Habitats  said. Landlords
can expect rental revenue to climb as much as 6.75 percent this
year from 2011 as occupancies rise, according to Axiometrics
Inc., a Dallas-based multifamily research firm.  Gains ‘More Limited’  Apartment investors may have to rely solely on rent
increases to profit from their deals as yields on the buildings
approach the 2 percent return on risk-free U.S. Treasuries,
according to  Sam Chandan , a real estate economist.  “The gains are more limited going forward,” said Chandan,
president of Chandan Economics LLC, a New York-based research
firm. “That being said, the market is significantly supply
constrained, and that’s one of the key factors that will support
rent growth irrespective of market conditions.”  Institutional investors are willing to “stretch” what
they will pay to acquire high-end property in Manhattan because
of projected revenue growth and the limited supply of new units
on the market, Harmon said. Many top-quality apartment buildings
are held for decades by family owners, which limits how many
become available for sale, according to  Paul Leibowitz ,
executive vice president in the investment properties division
of brokerage  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   New-Building Premium  Manhattan multifamily buildings sold at an average of
$493,980 per unit at the end of 2011, the highest in 11 years of
record keeping, Real Capital data show. Before last year, the
previous peak was in the first three months of 2007, when the
average was $379,970.  Sales totaled $5.1 billion in the year through March 31,
according to Real Capital. It was the highest 12-month total for
apartment properties since the third quarter of 2008.  Deals for new buildings have fueled that increase. In
January, Wafra Investment Advisory Group Inc., an arm of
Kuwait’s social-security agency, bought 2 Cooper Square in the
Noho neighborhood for $134.1 million, or $993,403 per unit,
according to Real Capital and New York City records. The
capitalization rate -- a property’s net income divided by the
purchase price -- was 3.5 percent, the data firm said.  The 144-unit tower, which was completed in 2010, was
Wafra’s first residential acquisition in Manhattan, according to
Harmon, who brokered the deal.  Driven by Profitability  UDR, the third-largest U.S. apartment real estate
investment trust, and  MetLife Inc. (MET)  in January bought the five-
tower Columbus Square complex on the Upper West Side for about
$630 million. It was the fifth multifamily deal in the borough
for Highlands Ranch, Colorado-based UDR, which estimates the
transaction at $887,000 per unit, according to Harry Alcock,
senior vice president of asset management.  The price for the complex, which began leasing in 2009,
“was really just driven by the profitability of the apartment
building,” Alcock said.  Columbus Square was acquired at an estimated initial cap
rate of 3.9 percent, said Mark Biffert, senior REIT analyst at
Bloomberg Industries. UDR estimates it can increase the yield to
4.5 percent over the next 12 months as the property becomes
stabilized with 95 percent occupancy, higher market rents and
the elimination of leasing concessions typical for new
buildings, such as a month’s free rent, according to Biffert’s
report on the deal.  Rent Increases  In UDR’s four other Manhattan properties, leases are being
renewed at average rents that are 9 percent to 14 percent higher
than a year earlier, Alcock said. New agreements are commanding
rates that are 9 percent to 13 percent more. The buildings are
97 percent occupied.  The company, which entered the  New York  market last year,
owns about $1.5 billion of assets in the borough and “would be
comfortable” adding others, even as limited deals draw more
competitors, Alcock said.  “It’s not obvious to me that values have moved to a point
where we simply will not be able to invest,” he said. “When
you have a market where vacancies are so low, we just know we’re
going to continue to move rents.”  About 3,000 new apartments are expected to be built in
Manhattan within the next three years, the same as the annual
average for the past 15 years, according to Leibowitz of CBRE.  “The lack of a supply pipeline makes a lot of investors
comfortable with the market,” he said.  ‘A Safe Bet’  Competition is heated even for older properties that
require rehabilitation and upgrades. After  Silverstone Property
Group Inc.  toured a 34-year old apartment building in the Kips
Bay neighborhood, it took only three days to conduct due
diligence, make an offer and sign a contract, said Martin
Nussbaum, a managing member of the New York-based company.  Silverstone, through an affiliate, bought the 128-unit
tower in February for about $53 million, or $414,063 a unit,
according to Real Capital. It plans to gut-renovate the
apartments as tenant leases expire, he said.  The cap rate at time of purchase was about 3.5 percent,
according to Nussbaum.  “It’s a safe bet, but for taking the safe bet you’re
arguably looking at lower returns,” he said, adding that he
expects rents to increase by 35 percent to 40 percent when the
improvements are finished in the next 18 months.  Prices of high-end multifamily buildings are also being
pushed higher as investors begin considering properties for
condominium conversions, now or as an eventual exit strategy,
according to Leibowitz.  Exit Strategy  Of the 12 buildings that sold for more than $100 million
last year, two are slated to become condos. One of those
conversion plans is by developer  Harry Macklowe , who paid about
$253 million, or $2.34 million per unit, to acquire 737 Park
Ave., a property that had been owned by the same family for 65
years.  In a deal for a building that remained a rental,
Leibowitz’s group arranged the sale of  the Corner  on West 72nd
Street to retirement account manager TIAA-CREF for $1.1 million
per unit in May. The lowest rent for a one-bedroom unit at the
luxury tower, which includes a rooftop terrace and children’s
playroom, was $4,475 in 2010 when the building first opened,
according to  Christopher Butt , a broker with Citi Habitats.
Today, the cheapest one-bedroom commands $4,800, he said.  The competition to acquire apartments means it’s harder to
find Manhattan properties that are discounted because of
financial distress, said  David Schwartz , co-founder of Chicago-
based Waterton Associates LLC. The company seeks “opportunistic
situations” where a multifamily owner wants to reduce debt or
has a loan coming due and can’t refinance, he said.  Tribeca Deal  Waterton last year bought 88 Leonard in Tribeca, its first
and only Manhattan apartment building, for about $207 million
from  Africa Israel  USA, which at the time was working to
restructure and refinance more than $1.5 billion in debt.
Waterton, which agreed to assume Africa Israel’s mortgage on the
property and pay off its mezzanine loan, acquired the building
at a cap rate of 4.6 percent, according to Real Capital.  “The distress is at the tail end,” Schwartz said.
“Things are being priced at full retail at this point.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at   kwetzel@bloomberg.net  