-- ‘Failing’ Syria Peace Plan Raises Question of What’s Next
-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-04-29T15:44:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/annan-plan-failing-in-syria-as-violence-trumps-monitors.html
At least seven people were killed
in fighting throughout  Syria  as the U.S. said the United
Nations-backed peace plan for the country was failing.  The casualties today included one soldier who defected from
government forces and a child, according to the opposition Local
Coordination Committees.  More than 500 people have been killed since the April 12
start of the cease-fire brokered by UN special envoy  Kofi Annan ,
according to the website of the Local Coordination Committees.
If violence continues, the U.S. and its allies anticipate
putting further pressure on the regime by seeking a travel ban,
additional financial sanctions and an arms embargo at the UN
Security Council, U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said last week in  Washington .  Nuland blamed Syrian President Bashar al-Assad for the
plan’s lack of success, citing attacks by government forces on
civilians and the military’s failure to withdraw heavy weapons
from population centers. She also said it is essential to deploy
as many as 300 unarmed UN cease-fire observers in the effort to
limit the violence.  Pentagon officials are drawing up plans in the event that
President  Barack Obama  decides to pursue military options in
Syria, Kathleen Hicks, an administration nominee to the Defense
Department’s policy staff, told the Senate Committee on Armed
Services April 26.  ‘Significant Planning’  “We are doing a significant amount of planning for a wide
range of scenarios, including our ability to assist allies and
partners along the borders,” said Hicks, the nominee to be
principal deputy undersecretary of defense for policy.  The U.S.,  Turkey  and other allies have discussed creating a
civilian aid corridor along the Turkish border with Syria as one
option if the fighting continues.  The head of the UN monitoring force arrived in Damascus
today,  Al Arabiya  reported without saying how it got the
information. An advance team of 15 UN observers has reported
heavy weapons in populated areas in violation of the UN
agreement, Ban said.  Nuland estimated that it may take another three to four
weeks to deploy the first 100 of the anticipated 300 monitors.  The head of the  Arab League , Nabil el-Arabi, said Arab
foreign ministers have asked him to convene a meeting of all the
Syrian opposition factions on May 16, according to the Al
Jazeera television channel.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  