-- Tanzania Boosts Tanzanite Output by 17% Amid Certification Drive
-- B y   D a v i d   M a l i n g h a   D o y a
-- 2012-04-27T13:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/tanzania-boosts-tanzanite-output-by-17-amid-certification-drive.html
Tanzania , the world’s only known
source of tanzanite, boosted output of the blue gemstones by 17
percent last year, as the country introduced a certification
program to boost exports.  Production grew to about 15,000 kilograms (33,000 pounds)
from 12,733 kilograms a year earlier, according to provisional
Mines Ministry data provided by acting Commissioner of Minerals
Ally Samaje in Arusha, 330 kilometers (204 miles northeast of
the capital, Dodoma. Tanzanite One Ltd., a subsidiary of
 Richland Resources Ltd. (RLD) , is the biggest miner of the gemstone.  “One of the goals of the certification of tanzanite is to
curb smuggling, which will ultimately increase exports and
revenue,” Samaje said in an interview yesterday at a trade fair
in Arusha. “We started enforcing supply control of tanzanite
after we realized that there were a lot of exports of tanzanite
coming from  Kenya . Clearly, those stones are smuggled and
probably in significant amounts.”  Tanzanite has gained in popularity since its launch as a
gemstone by New York-based  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  in 1968. The blue
mineral, 1,000 times rarer than diamonds, was first discovered
in the East African nation 40 years ago. It is mined in an area
at the foot of Mount Kilimanjaro, Africa’s highest peak.  Tanzanian Mines Minister William Ngeleja urged industry
participants to help promote certification of the gemstone.  “No tanzanite will be exported without such certificates,”
he said at the first Arusha Gemstones, Jewelry and Minerals
International Fair. “Government urges you to offer your support
in implementing this strategy.”  African Gems  The fair, which is intended to be an annual event,
showcases gems from Tanzania, Kenya,  South Africa , Malawi,
Madagascar, Ethiopia and Democratic Republic of Congo, said Abe
Suleman, chairman of the event.  “We have buyers from the U.S.,  China , Japan,  Sri Lanka ,
 India , Pakistan and Thailand,” he said. “The government has made
a three-year commitment to stage and promote the show.”  The  American Gem Trade Association  is considering admitting
dealers of tanzanite from the East African country to showcase
the gem, and popularize the certificate of origin at their
February fair in Tucson, Chief Executive Officer Douglas Hucker
said in an interview.  Ngeleja will lead a delegation to the main tanzanite-
consuming countries later this year to ask them not to allow
non-certified tanzanite into their markets, Samaje said.  “We have already asked our embassies in consumer countries
like the U.S., India,  Japan , Thailand to approach customs
officials and dealers and discuss a possible memorandum of
understanding with the Tanzanian government on the tanzanite
certificate of origin,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam via Nairobi at
   pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 