-- Apatow’s ‘Engagement’; Norwegian Thriller; Murder: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/apatow-s-engagement-norwegian-thriller-murder-movies.html
Tom (Jason Segel) and Violet ( Emily Blunt ) love living in  San Francisco , where he’s an up-and-coming
chef at an important restaurant.  But when she wins a fellowship to the  University of
Michigan  -- she’s an academic psychologist -- they put off their
wedding and he tags along.  Violet flourishes. Tom can’t find the kind of work that
suits his talent, and goes slowly off the rails.  “ The Five-Year Engagement ” has the gross-outs -- a sliced
finger, a severed toe -- that you’d expect of a Judd Apatow
movie, though only a few. (It was made by  Apatow Productions ;
Nicholas Stoller directed; and Segel and Stoller wrote the
screenplay.)  Some of it is fall-down funny. Sometimes the laughter
sticks in your throat.  A man who subordinates his ambitions to his wife’s is
already a tricky subject, but the bleakness under the surface of
this picture feels even more urgent.  A lot of people may recognize Tom’s bored, hollow look --
his whiskers grow like weeds, and his eyes sink into in their
sockets -- as the frustration of a man who’s been out of work
for too long.  Deli Job  He isn’t truly unemployed (he gets a job at a deli), and so
the movie isn’t technically about the downturn. You can sense
it, though, in the comic desperation of the losers Tom and
Violet meet in  Michigan .  After the filmmakers have gone down this road, there’s
nothing they can do but make a frantic U-turn.  The climax is a sappy, over-the-top crowd pleaser. But I
don’t think anyone would want the movie to go deeper. That’s not
what they came for; it may be what they came to get away from.  The jokes snap like mousetraps. The cast -- which includes
Chris Pratt as Tom’s moronic best friend, Alex, and Alison Brie
as Alex’s unlikely wife -- is irresistible.  Even though Tom and Violet live together, “The Five-Year
Engagement” views marriage as momentous. At the preview
screening I attended, audience members were happily shouting
“Marry her! Marry her!” at Tom. I wonder how many of them were
still feeling that gleeful when they got home.  “The Five-Year Engagement,” from Universal, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: *** (Seligman)  ‘Safe’  “ Safe ” is a decent-enough throwback action thriller that
yearns for the bad old days when Gotham needed a Shaft.  Jason Statham mumbles and kick-boxes his way through the
city’s mean streets as  Luke Wright , a down-and-out ex-cop (and
one-time cage fighter) haunted by the gangland murder of his
wife.  Coming to the rescue of an 11-year-old Chinese girl
(Catherine Chan) running from thugs on a Brooklyn subway, Wright
lands smack in the middle of a three-way battle between Chinese
gangsters, the Russian mob and dirty New York cops.  Writer-director Boaz Yakin is clearly smitten with the city
of “ Super Fly ,” and “Safe” -- as oddly quaint as it is
violent -- is his love letter.  Grindhouse nostalgia can’t rescue his convoluted script,
though. The plot is so full of double-crosses and backstories
that Yakin summons a character -- a crooked mayor, no less --
late in the film to explain what’s going on.  Nice touch, though, that the mayor is played by Chris
Sarandon, bringing fond memories -- and a knowing character
twist -- from “ Dog Day Afternoon .”  “Safe,” from Lionsgate, is playing across the U.S.
Rating: ** (Evans)  ‘Headhunters’  Corporate recruiters and high-stakes art thieves make
deadly bedfellows in “Headhunters,” a terrific, ice-cold
thriller from  Norway .  Leaner -- and a lot more fun -- than any version of “The
Girl With the  Dragon Tattoo ,” “Headhunters” is delightful
Scandinavian mayhem.  Directed by Morten Tyldum (and based on crime novelist Jo
Nesbo’s bestseller), the film stars open-faced actor Aksel
Hennie as Roger Brown, an Oslo headhunter who moonlights as an
art thief to keep his upscale lifestyle afloat and gorgeous wife
happy.  When Brown learns that one of his recruitment targets is
also the secret owner of a long-missing Rubens masterpiece, he
thinks he’s hit the jackpot.  But Brown’s easy mark proves anything but: The suave,
handsome target (Nikolaj Coster-Waldau, of  HBO (TWX) ’s “ Game of
Thrones ”) is a trained terrorist-hunter and bloodthirsty
sociopath.  The cat-and-mouse scheming escalates well after the artwork
becomes an afterthought. Adultery, corporate takeovers, even
Brown’s short-man insecurities drive “Headhunters” to nerve-
wracking extremes.  “Headhunters,” from  Magnolia Pictures , is playing in  New
York  and  Los Angeles . Rating: *** (Evans)  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are their own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway
and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .
Craig Seligman at  cseligman@mindspring.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 