-- Apple Said to Have Discussed Epix Movie App for Apple TV
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-04-27T23:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/apple-said-to-have-discussed-epix-movie-app-for-apple-tv.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  held talks to let
subscribers of the Epix movie channel watch films on its $99
set-top box, according to an executive familiar with the matter.  The sides discussed allowing Apple to stream films to
existing Epix subscribers through an app that would be installed
on Apple TV, the person said. No talks are currently under way,
according to two people, who sought anonymity because the matter
is private.  Epix, a joint venture of  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures,
Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios
Inc., offers a premium movie channel on pay-TV systems such as
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  The company already offers an app to
subscribers on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Xbox 360, through a password-
protected process. Epix is available in more than 30 million
homes.  Online streaming company  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  already has a deal to
show Epix films 90 days after first airing on the pay-TV
channel. Netflix Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings, in an
interview this month, said the deal extends through at least the
end of the year.  The deal with Netflix prevents Epix from selling to other
online subscription outlets such as Hulu.com, Netflix spokesman
Steve Swasey said at the time.  Tom Neumayr, a spokesman for Apple, declined to comment, as
did Jamie Colunga, a spokeswoman for EPIX HD.  Reuters reported earlier that Apple, based in Cupertino,
California, began talks to stream Epix films earlier this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  