-- Largest U.S. Banks Resist Federal Reserve’s Credit Limits
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-27T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/largest-u-s-banks-resist-federal-reserve-s-credit-limits.html
The largest U.S. banks, including
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , told the
Federal Reserve that a limit on their credit exposure is
unnecessary and “fundamentally flawed.”  The Fed’s proposed rules on single-counterparty credit
limits would have a negative impact on banks, their customers
and the  U.S. economy , according to a letter sent to the central
bank today by five banking trade groups, including the Clearing
House Association.  In December, the Fed proposed tougher standards to supervise
the largest banks whose collapse could jeopardize the economy.
The central bank set a limit of 10 percent for credit risk
between a company considered systemically important and
counterparty when each has more than $500 billion in total
assets.  “The  Federal Reserve  has provided no basis to determine
that imposing the dramatically lower and arbitrary 10 percent
credit limit on certain major covered companies would even help
mitigate risks to the U.S. financial stability, much less be
necessary,” according to the text of the letter obtained by
Bloomberg News.  Other signers of the letter are the Financial Services
Roundtable, the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, the Financial Services Forum and  American Bankers
Association . The Clearing House also represents Citigroup Inc.
and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  in addition to JPMorgan.  Fed Proposals  The Fed’s proposed rules would set triggers for regulatory
enforcement for systemic firms and require boards of directors
to oversee and approve plans for limiting  liquidity risk .
Comments on the Fed’s proposal are due on April 30.  The 10 percent credit risk limit is more restrictive than
that contained in the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, which
allowed for a 25 percent limit.  The banks are focusing their complaints on the proposal on
the single-counterparty exposure limit. They argue it goes too
far without justification from the Fed for its change. Further,
they disagree with the central bank on its proposed formula for
determining counterparty exposure.  The banks are attempting to bring heightened attention to
the issue, in a fashion similar to the resistance to the Volcker
rule’s ban on proprietary trading, and are beginning a push to
get lawmakers’ input. Executives of the eight largest banks met
with Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo  on March 27, according to a Fed
disclosure.  Important Implications  “This hasn’t gotten the attention of Volcker but its
implications have been just as important,” said Satish Kini,
co-chairman of the Debevoise & Plimpton LLP’s Banking Group.  Banks were subject to single counterparty limits prior to
the financial crisis at the bank level not the holding company
level. This proposal extends the authority to the holding
company of institutions. The Fed has said this change is to
address the links between firms considered systemically
important.  “The financial crisis also revealed inadequacies in the
U.S. supervision approach to single counterparty credit
concentration limits, which failed to limit the
interconnectedness among and concentration of similar risks
within large financial companies that contributed to a rapid
escalation of the crisis,” the Fed said in its December
proposal.  The Fed did not explain why it changed the credit risk
limit to 10 percent for the largest banks. The Dodd-Frank act
allows the Fed to make the change if it determines it is
necessary to “mitigate risks to the financial stability.” The
banks argue the Fed should first try the 25 percent limit and,
if it proves inadequate, adopt the 10 percent limit.  “Going beyond the 25 percent limit based on an array of
untested, an unknown factors is over engineering,” said Karen Shaw Petrou, a managing partner at Federal Financial Analytics,
a Washington research firm whose clients have included  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  “Throughout the rule there are really important
improvements that ought to be put in place, kick tested and then
expand it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  