-- Arizona Businesses Brace for Pain Over Immigration Ruling
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   O l d h a m
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/arizona-businesses-brace-for-pain-over-immigration-ruling.html
As several dozen workers weed his
fields hugging  Arizona ’s border with  Mexico , farmer Tim Dunn
worries how he’ll augment his workforce if the U.S. Supreme
Court upholds parts of the state’s immigration law.  In hearing arguments this week, justices signaled they
might be prepared to uphold the core of Arizona’s crackdown on
illegal immigrants -- known as S.B. 1070 -- that requires police
officers to check the immigration status of anyone they suspect
is in the U.S. illegally. Lower courts blocked the provision
from taking effect.  At Dunn’s 1,500-acre Yuma  farm , where workers are preparing
to pick broccoli and cauliflower seed crops, that prospect is a
threat to his plans for growth, he said.  “As the economy improves, it will be harder and harder to
get the labor we need,” Dunn said. “1070 has stopped the
debate as far as what we really need: a way for people to come
here to work legally.”  Employers across the state concurred yesterday, saying they
were concerned that a  Supreme Court  ruling in Arizona’s favor
might spark renewed boycotts and prompt Hispanics who play a
large role in the state’s economy to flee, whether or not
they’re illegal immigrants.  “When S.B. 1070 first went into effect in 2010, we saw a
significant drop in sales-tax revenues and an increase in the
 unemployment rate ,” said Todd Landfried, executive director of
 Arizona Employers for Immigration Reform . “There’s no reason to
think this won’t happen again if the law is fully implemented.”  Landfried’s group submitted a brief to the high court
opposing the law.  Recession to Blame  In interviews yesterday, proponents countered that it’s
unfair to pin economic troubles on S.B. 1070, saying Arizona’s
businesses struggled largely because of the nationwide
recession.  “We don’t believe there was a significant impact to the
economy from the first round of boycotts after S.B. 1070 was
signed into law,” said Matthew Benson, a spokesman for
Republican Governor  Jan Brewer . “We did see a downturn in
tourism and employment, but it’s impossible to factor in how
much of that was due to the larger recession.”  Arizona posted the second-highest percentage change in  home
prices  in 2011, with values dropping 7.4 percent from the prior
year, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States,
or BEES.  State lawmakers passed S.B. 1070 in 2010, contending that
the border state had the right to clamp down on immigration to
cope with an influx of illegal residents. Arizona had 360,000
unauthorized immigrants in 2011, of about 11.5 million
nationwide, according to the Department of  Homeland Security .  Net Zero  While millions of Mexican immigrants arrived in the U.S. in
the past four decades, the wave has been offset in recent years
by an equal number of migrants returning home, according to a
 report  released April 23 by the Pew Hispanic Center in
 Washington , a nonpartisan research group. Net migration may have
fallen to zero, the report said.  Weakened U.S. job and housing construction markets,
heightened border enforcement, a rise in deportations, and the
dangers associated with illegal border crossings contributed to
the decline, the center said.  In the case before the Supreme Court, the central legal
question revolves around whether federal law governing
immigration, the U.S. Immigration and Nationality Act, pre-empts
S.B. 1070.  Unfriendly Image  With the law tied up in the courts since its enactment, the
economic effect in Arizona was largely due to a perception that
the state is unfriendly to immigrants, some state business
leaders say. If the law is put into place, its impact will be
stronger, said James Garcia, a spokesman for the  Arizona
Hispanic Chamber of Commerce .  “When we talk with people who run hair salons or auto-
repair shops or local grocery stores that cater to immigrants,
they say that a lot of their customers left in 2010,” Garcia
said. “A lot of mom-and-pop Latino-owned businesses are
operating on a pretty small margin; if people are simply packing
up and leaving, that’s going to hit them hard.”  In Phoenix, Hispanic consumers spent $7.8 billion in 2010
and are projected to spend $11.5 billion in 2015, according to a
study to be released next month by the Hispanic chamber.  Arizona business leaders also point to studies conducted
shortly after the law passed in 2010 showing that convention
organizers shied away from the state, taking millions in
economic benefits with them.  Convention Losses  The state lost $141 million in direct spending by attendees
whose conferences were canceled, and another $253 million in
economic output from conventions that otherwise would have
occurred in the next two to three years, according to a  study  by
Elliott D. Pollack & Co., a Scottsdale economic research firm,
commissioned by the Washington-based Center for American
Progress.  The law’s supporters say that the economic impact of
undocumented immigrants taking advantage of Arizona’s services
makes S.B. 1070 necessary.  “As former treasurer of Maricopa County, I saw firsthand
how my state and my community were bearing the crushing
financial burden of so many services for those that were here
illegally: health care, education, incarceration,” U.S.
Representative David Schweikert, a Republican, said in an e-
mail. “I am concerned for the continued financial ramifications
if this law is not upheld.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Oldham in Denver at 
 joldham1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  