-- Asia Currencies Rise as U.S. Recovery May Spur Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-04-27T22:07:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/asia-currencies-rise-this-week-as-u-s-recovery-may-spur-exports.html
Asian currencies had a weekly gain,
led by  Malaysia ’s ringgit, as upbeat U.S. economic data
brightened the outlook for regional exports and prompted
investors to favor riskier assets.  Home sales in the world’s biggest economy were the highest
in almost two years in March, according to a report April 26,
and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said April 25 the
central bank was prepared to add more stimulus if needed. South
Korea’s gross domestic product increased in the first quarter at
the fastest pace in a year and the nation’s  current-account 
surplus reached a four-month high in March, central bank reports
showed April 26 and yesterday.  Malaysia’s ringgit strengthened 1.1 percent this week to
3.0315 versus the greenback in Kuala Lumpur, its best
performance in three months, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Taiwan ’s dollar advanced 0.6 percent to NT$29.332 in
Taipei and South Korea’s won appreciated 0.4 percent to
1,135.10. India’s rupee weakened 0.9 percent to 52.5425 as
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered the outlook on its credit rating for
the nation.  “It looks like the  U.S. economy  is recovering; that boosts
optimism in the market,” said Samson Tu, a Taipei-based  fund
manager  at Uni-President Assets Management Corp., who helps
oversee $1.6 billion of fixed-income securities. “The flows
into emerging sovereign bonds have been very active lately.”  Funds focused on emerging-market bonds attracted $14.4
billion in the first quarter of this year, compared with $1.9
billion in the year-earlier period, according to data from U.S.
research company EPFR Global.  Spain Downgrade  Asia’s  currency  gains were limited by concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis is worsening. S&P cut Spain’s sovereign- credit rating 
April 26 for the second time this year, citing concern that the
government will have to provide further fiscal support to banks
as the economy contracts.  The downgrade “won’t be enough to weaken the won,” said
Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst at Woori Futures
Inc. “The overall atmosphere is positive for the won with
Bernanke’s comments still affecting markets and Korea’s current
account improving.”  The won completed its biggest weekly gain in almost two
months as data showed yesterday that the current-account surplus
was $3 billion in March, up from $557 million in February.  Gross
domestic product  rose 0.9 percent in the first quarter from the
previous three months, according to figures released April 26.  Export Outlook  The ringgit rose for a fourth day, its longest winning
streak in 12 weeks. Malaysia’s exports increased 15 percent from
a year earlier in February, the biggest gain in four months,
according to data released April 10.  “U.S. employment and housing are gradually improving so
spending is on the rise and we expect Malaysian exports to pick
up,” said Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-
Mitsubishi UFJ Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur .  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso climbed 0.6 percent this
week to 42.368 per dollar, Thailand’s baht advanced 0.4 percent
to 30.77 and  China ’s yuan was little changed at 6.3102.
Indonesia’s rupiah was little changed at 9,185 and Vietnam’s
dong dropped 0.3 percent to 20,890.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 