-- Asia Stocks Fall a Second Week on Spain, BOJ Disappointment
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-04-27T23:38:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/asia-stocks-fall-a-second-week-on-spain-boj-disappointment.html
Asian Stocks fell for a second week
as concern about Europe’s debt crisis and the  Bank of Japan ’s
policy announcement disappointed investors. Losses were limited
after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he’s ready
to do more to support growth if needed.  Sony Corp. (6758) , a consumer-electronics maker that gets more
than a fifth of its revenue in Europe, dropped 3.5 percent in
Tokyo. Fanuc Corp., the world’s largest maker of controls that
run machine tools, tumbled 7.4 percent in Tokyo after
forecasting a decline in operating profit. Huabao International
Holdings Ltd., a maker of flavors for cigarettes, slumped 7.4
percent in  Hong Kong  after a short-seller questioned its
finances.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slid 0.1 percent to 124.30,
after dropping 0.7 percent the previous week. The gauge has
dropped more than 2 percent this month amid concern  Europe ’s
debt crisis and a slowdown in the Chinese economy will
overshadow a U.S. economic recovery.  “It’s a time of a greatly unsettled atmosphere in
Europe,” Quintin Price, the global investment chief for
fundamental equities at BlackRock Inc., said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from Hong Kong. BlackRock has about $3.68
trillion in assets. “You see this resistance to austerity.
Europe continues to be central.”  BOJ Easing  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  fell 0.4 percent this week,
dropping for a fourth week. Japanese shares yesterday reversed
an earlier surge that came after the Bank of Japan added
stimulus, as investors interpreted a statement on price gains as
a sign an end to deflation may damp prospects for further easing.  “Investors are worried the BOJ may tighten its monetary
policy, not ease it,” said Koichi Kurose, chief economist at
Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo.  South Korea’s  Kospi (KOSPI)  Index added less than 0.1 percent.
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index lost 0.1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang
Seng Index declined 1.3 percent this week. The Shanghai
Composite Index, which tracks the larger of China’s stock
exchanges, lost 0.4 percent after a survey on April 23 showed
the nation’s manufacturing may contract for a sixth month in
April.  Stocks also fell after Spain’s sovereign credit rating was
cut on April 26 for the second time this year by  Standard &
Poor’s  on concern that the country will have to provide further
fiscal support to banks as the economy contracts.  Austerity Revolt  A revolt against spending cuts in The Netherlands prompted
Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  to submit his cabinet’s resignation on
April 23. The backlash against austerity measures in Europe has
expanded in recent weeks after Spain struggled to meet European
Union-imposed deficit targets and election campaigns in Greece
faced anti-austerity rumblings.  Companies that do business in Europe fell for the week.
Sony lost 3.5 percent to 1,316 yen.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a
clothier that counts Europe as its biggest market, slid 2.3
percent to HK$15.98 in Hong Kong.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which
operates container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port, declined
2.1 percent to HK$11.02.  Losses in stocks were limited after Bernanke on April 25
said the Fed stands ready to add to its stimulus if necessary
even after leaving its policy unchanged and upgrading its view
of the  U.S. economy  for this year. U.S. new and pending home
sales advanced in March, data showed this week.  Electronics  Fanuc Corp. tumbled 7.4 percent to 13,590 yen in Tokyo
after saying on April 25 that operating profit may slide 3.1
percent in the six months ending September as a weaker global
economy saps sales.  Samsung Electronics Co.,  Asia ’s biggest consumer-
electronics maker, advanced 7.2 percent to 1.374 million won
after reporting better-than-estimated first-quarter profit as
surging sales of Galaxy smartphones outweighed slumping earnings
at its chip business. Net income jumped 81 percent from a year
earlier to 5.05 trillion won ($4.5 billion), the Suwon, South
Korea-based company said yesterday, beating the 4.24 trillion-
won average of 29 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Among other stocks that fell this week, Huabao
International Holdings declined 7.4 percent to HK$3.98 in Hong
Kong. The company suspended trading in Hong Kong after a report
on the Anonymous Analytics website said Huabao consistently
reported margins of more than 70 percent, while its industry
peers were in the 40 percent to 50 percent range. Huabao said
it’s preparing a response to “incorrect and misleading
allegations” about the company in an “orderly manner.”  The week’s decline has brought the value of stocks on the
regional index to 1.36 times book value, compared with 2.25
times for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 0.75 times for the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  