-- Warren Income Tops Brown in Dueling Massachusetts Returns
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-04-27T19:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/massachusetts-senator-brown-releases-6-years-of-tax-returns-1-.html
U.S. Senator  Scott Brown ’s income
doubled after the Massachusetts Republican took office in 2010,
while Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , a Harvard Law School professor,
listed almost $1 million in two of the past four years.  The candidates ended more than a week of sparring over
releasing tax returns today with disclosures of key data that
may reshape the way the Senate campaign is waged.  “They’re both clearly very wealthy,” said Jessica Taylor,
a senior analyst with the Rothenberg Political Report in
 Washington . The income disclosed today by both candidates
“reinforces the stereotype that each party is trying to play
up,” she said.  Brown, 52, who upended state politics by winning a special
election for the seat long held by  Ted Kennedy , portrays himself
as an everyday guy, driving a pickup truck to events, and casts
Warren, 62, as a wealthy Ivy League elitist. A bankruptcy-law
specialist who helped President  Barack Obama  set up the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, Warren highlights her “middle-
class” upbringing and calls Brown an “extremist.”  Brown’s tax-return  figures  show he and his wife, television
reporter Gail Huff, earned $510,856 and paid a quarter of that
in taxes in 2011, down from almost $840,000 a year earlier. The
state and federal tax breakdown over the six years of data
disclosed wasn’t provided. In 2009, when he was a state senator,
the Browns reported earning $294,206. Part of the gain last year
was from an advance on his book, “Against All Odds.”  ‘Worked Hard’  “We’ve worked very hard over the last 25 years,” Brown
told reporters today in  Boston ’s Roslindale section, according
to the Boston Globe’s website. “We’ve saved and saved and tried
to provide a good family effort to provide for ourselves and our
kids. We wish that for everybody.”  Warren and her husband, Bruce Mann, also a Harvard law
professor, had income of $616,181 in 2011, down from $954,721
the previous year, and also paid about a 26 percent federal and
5 percent state income-tax rate, according to information posted
on her campaign website. She is the co-author of several books.  “I am the daughter of a maintenance man who has lived the
American Dream,” Warren said at a stop in the city’s Dorchester
section, according to the Globe. “And the lesson I take from
that is that great opportunities were given to me. I am in this
race right now because I worry those opportunities are being
taken away.’’  Not 99 Percenters  Both couples appear to rank among the top 1 percent of U.S.
income earners, based on a 2009 measure from the  Tax Foundation ,
a nonprofit research organization in Washington. It put the
cutoff for that category at adjusted gross income of more than
$343,947 for that year.  While Brown’s pickup truck conveys the image of a worker
and Warren talks about “growing up middle class” in  Oklahoma ,
today’s disclosures show “they are both very well off,” Taylor
said by telephone. “They’re both going to have to talk about
how they can relate to people.”  The information released today also shows the Browns
contributed $16,487 last year to charity, or 3.2 percent of
their income, while Warren and her husband contributed $17,209,
or 2.8 percent.  Productive Fundraisers  Both candidates have pulled in millions of dollars in
campaign contributions, with Brown reporting $3.4 million for
the first three months of this year and Warren listing $6.9
million for the period, according to statements this month.
Brown has raised $12 million for his drive for a full term,
while Warren, who still must win the Democratic nomination for
the November election, has collected about $16 million.  This year’s race will help determine whether Democrats
retain their edge in the Senate, where the party is defending 21
seats in November, plus two held by independents, compared with
10 for Republicans. The Democratic caucus holds a 53-47 edge.  In  Massachusetts , where Democrats outnumber Republicans 3-
to-1, Brown led Warren 37 percent to 35 percent in a March 21-27
telephone poll of 544 likely voters by the University of New
Hampshire Survey Center. Independents, who make up more than
half of the state’s electorate, backed Brown 42 percent to 14
percent, the canvass for the Boston Globe showed. It had a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 