-- AT&T Seeks to Dismiss U.S. Suit Over Con Men Using Deaf Service
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/at-t-seeks-to-dismiss-u-s-suit-over-billing-for-fraud-calls.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  urged a judge to dismiss
a lawsuit claiming it profited from government payments for a
calling service for the deaf that the company knew was being
used by Nigerian con men to steal from American merchants.  The U.S., which intervened in the whistle-blower lawsuit in
federal court in Pittsburgh, claims AT&T allowed an Internet-
based phone system to be overrun by criminals and then
improperly billed the government to reimburse the calls in
violation of the False Claims Act.  AT&T said the government’s case is an “improper and brazen
attempt to use the False Claims Act to litigate a garden-variety
regulatory claim,” according to the company’s filing yesterday.  Instead of arguing that AT&T submitted inflated
reimbursement requests for a program that it didn’t carry, the
government claims the company didn’t verify users’ information -
- an argument that doesn’t support a  False Claims Act  case, AT&T
said in yesterday’s filing.  The program in question, IP Relay, allows hearing-impaired
people to type  text messages  that the operator reads to the
recipients of their phone calls.  In its complaint, the U.S. said that as many as 95 percent
of the calls in AT&T’s hearing-impaired program were made by
people outside the U.S. attempting to defraud merchants through
the use of stolen credit cards, counterfeit checks and money
orders.  The case stems from services mandated under the Americans
with Disabilities Act that require carriers to provide voice
telephone services for hearing or speech-impaired callers.
Carriers, including AT&T, employ intermediaries who relay real-
time conversations for hearing-impaired callers.  Alisa Finelli, a Justice Department spokeswoman, had no
immediate comment yesterday after regular business hours.  The case is Lyttle v. AT&T Communications of  Pennsylvania ,
10-01376, U.S. District Court, Western District of Pennsylvania
(Pittsburgh).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 