-- Australian, N.Z. Dollars Weaken After Spain Downgrade
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-04-27T06:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/aussie-kiwi-fall-as-spain-s-rating-cut-saps-risk-demand.html
The Australian dollar weakened and
bond yields fell to records after  Standard & Poor’s  downgrade of
Spain highlighted concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening.  The so-called Aussie was headed for the biggest monthly
decline since November against the yen on speculation the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia will lower  interest rates  next week.
New Zealand’s dollar fell against most major peers as Asian
stocks slid, reducing demand for riskier assets. The South
Pacific nations’ currencies earlier gained briefly against the
yen after the  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its asset purchase fund.  “There is concern over Europe with Spain’s downgrade and
bond yields going back up” in some nations there, said Lee Wai Tuck, a currency strategist at Forecast Pte in Singapore. “The
Aussie and kiwi are still vulnerable to the downside. The market
is pricing in more easing by the RBA.”  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0364 as of 4:56
p.m. in Sydney. It climbed as much as 0.4 percent versus the yen
before trading at 83.73 yen, 0.5 percent below yesterday’s close
in  New York . The New Zealand currency dropped 0.4 percent to
81.15 U.S. cents. It slid 0.6 percent to 65.56 yen after earlier
rising as high as 66.25 yen.  The yield on Australia’s 10-year debt fell as much as nine
basis points, or 0.09 percentage point, to 3.636 percent, the
least on record. The five-year yield also reached an all-time
low, sliding as much as 12 basis points to 3.071 percent. Two-
year bond rates touched 2.978 percent, a level last seen in
April 2009.  S&P cut Spain’s long-term credit rating two levels to BBB+
yesterday from A, saying the outlook is negative as the
country’s recession undermines efforts to reduce the  budget
deficit .  RBA Cuts Loom  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks fell 0.2 percent
while S&P 500 Index futures declined 0.5 percent.  Traders are betting the Reserve Bank of Australia will cut
its benchmark rate from 4.25 percent at its next meeting on May
1, with a Credit Suisse Group AG  gauge  indicating that a cut of
at least 25 basis points is a certainty.  The central bank this month signaled it may lower rates to
bolster the economy, provided inflation remains in check. A
report this week showed annual consumer price inflation slowed
to 2.2 percent in the first quarter, toward the lower end of the
RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range.  Aussie Options  There are 5.99  puts  to sell the  CurrencyShares Australian
Dollar Trust (FXA)  for every call to buy the security, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The ratio reached an all-time high
of 6.03 on April 20. The exchange-traded fund, which tracks the
U.S. dollar value of the Aussie, has dropped 3.6 percent from a
nine-month high on Feb. 7.  “All the economic metrics are pointing to an interest rate
cut, which is reducing the attractiveness of the Aussie,” Alex Tedder, who helps manage $13 billion in global stocks at
American Century Investments in New York, said in an April 25
phone interview. “They have the ability to cut rates, and they
will use it.”  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, dropped 1.5 basis points to 2.75
percent, heading for the lowest close since Feb. 1.  BOJ officials increased the bank’s asset-purchase fund by
10 trillion yen ($123 billion) to 40 trillion yen, according to
a statement released in  Tokyo  today.  -- With reporting by Kristine Aquino in  Singapore , Nikolaj
Gammeltoft in New York and Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam.
Editors: Garfield Reynolds, Jonathan Annells  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  