-- Australia, N.Z. Dollars Gain as Central Banks Fuel Demand
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-27T19:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/australia-n-z-dollars-gain-as-central-banks-fuel-demand.html
The Australian and New Zealand
dollars rose versus most major peers after the Bank of  Japan 
added more stimulus and investors bet the  Federal Reserve  won’t
be quick to abandon efforts to support the U.S. economy,
boosting demand for higher-yielding assets.  The two South Pacific currencies reversed earlier losses as
global stocks and commodities rallied.  “The only reason why we’re seeing a bit of an upward move
in risk is because the  Bank of Japan  eased, so more liquidity is
funneling into the market,” said  Kathy Lien , director of
currency research at the online trading firm GFT Forex in  New
York . “The tremendous amount of liquidity that central banks
are providing is the only thing supporting risk.”  Australia ’s currency strengthened 0.7 percent to $1.0465 at
3:52 p.m. in New York. It was little changed at 84.12 yen.  The Aussie was headed for a 1.9 percent monthly drop versus
the yen, the biggest since November, on speculation the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia will cut  interest rates  next week.  The kiwi, as New Zealand’s dollar is called, rose 1 percent
today to 82.27 U.S. cents and gained 0.2 percent to 66.12 yen.  The MSCI World Index of stocks advanced 0.5 percent, and
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials gained
0.7 percent.  Bank of Japan  The Bank of Japan increased the total size of its stimulus
programs by 5 trillion yen ($62 billion). It’s boosting its
asset-purchase fund to 40 trillion yen by June 2013, versus the
previous target of 30 trillion yen by year-end, while paring by
5 trillion yen a separate program that provides funds to banks.  Higher-yielding currencies gained today as Commerce
Department data showed U.S. gross domestic product expanded in
the first quarter at a 2.2 percent annual rate. That followed a
3 percent pace from October through December and compared with
the 2.5 percent median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.  While the Fed refrained this week from new actions to boost
the  U.S. economy , Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the central bank
is “prepared to do more” if necessary.  RBA policy makers will lower the cash target  rate  to 4
percent on May 1, from 4.25 percent, according a Bloomberg
survey. The central bank this month signaled it may lower rates
to bolster the economy, provided inflation remains in check. A
report this week showed annual consumer price inflation slowed
to 2.2 percent in the first quarter, toward the lower end of the
RBA’s 2 percent to 3 percent target range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  