-- Banks’ Reluctance to Lend to Each Other Declines for Fifth Month
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-04-30T12:30:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/banks-reluctance-to-lend-to-each-other-rises-from-9-month-low.html
European banks’ reluctance to lend
to one another declined for the fifth month as the  European
Central Bank ’s program of cheap loans to lenders helped offset
renewed concerns the region’s debt crisis is deepening.  The  Euribor-OIS spread , the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, was 39 basis
points at 1:15 p.m. in London, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
The measure has fallen every month since November when it stood
at 99 basis points.  The ECB’s longer-term refinancing operations in December
and February bolstered investor confidence in banks’ capital
levels, spurring a rally in credit markets. Lenders’ funding
conditions could deteriorate amid a recession in  Spain , rising
euro-area unemployment and increasing criticism of austerity
agendas in election campaigns in France and  Greece .  “The LTROs largely minimized the funding risk for European
banks, but the shock effect has run its course,” said Eric Wand, a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in
 London . “You could argue we’re re-entering a period of euro-
area concern, with  Francois Hollande  set to win the French
elections and Greek elections to be held this weekend.”  The cost for banks to convert euro interest payments into
dollars also fell for the fifth month. The three-month cross-
currency basis swap was 45 basis points below Euribor, compared
with minus 114 basis points at the start of the year.  LTRO  The ECB offered banks unlimited funding after the basis
swap reached minus 157.5 basis points on Nov. 29, the highest
cost since October 2008. The measure was 2.5 basis points below
Euribor on Jan. 24, 2008, eight months before Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy.  “We won’t get back to where we were pre-crisis,” said
Wand. “There will always be a few basis points of  risk premium 
associated with what we’ve been through.”  The one-year  basis swap  rose in April after a three-month
decline. The measure was 51 basis points less than Euribor from
minus 45.5 on March 30. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Lenders increased  overnight deposits  at the ECB on April
27, placing 794 billion euros with the Frankfurt-based lender
from 791 billion euros the day before.  Three-month Euribor, the rate banks say they pay for three-
month loans in euros, fell to 0.708 percent from 0.715 percent.
One-week Euribor rose to 0.317 percent from 0.316 percent.  The London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for three-
month dollar loans was unchanged at 0.466 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  