-- Barclays Unfazed by Deals Dip in Southeast Asia Banking Push
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-04-27T03:21:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/barclays-unfazed-by-deals-dip-in-southeast-asia-banking-push-1-.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , undeterred by a drop
in equity offerings in Southeast  Asia  last year, is expanding
its investment bank in the region even as local rivals like CIMB
Group Holdings Ltd. step up competition for deals.  The U.K.’s second-largest lender plans to add senior
bankers in Singapore,  Indonesia  and  Malaysia  as part of a plan
to double advisory revenue from Southeast Asia in two to three
years, said Sandeep Pahwa, Barclays’s head of  investment banking 
for the region.  “Southeast Asia is really coming into its own and becoming
more meaningful,” Pahwa said in an April 23 interview.  Pahwa said he’ll seek to replicate the bank’s success in
 Australia , where it jumped to third among mergers advisers last
year, from 17th in 2010. While the value of stock and
convertible bond offerings in  Southeast Asia  slumped by half in
the first quarter, and mergers were down 20 percent, Pahwa said
regulatory changes, state asset sales and acquisitions by cash-
rich companies are likely to drive a rebound in dealmaking.  Companies raised $3 billion selling shares and convertible
bonds in Southeast Asia in the first quarter, down from $6.1
billion in the same period in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The value of mergers and acquisitions dropped 20 percent
to $20.8 billion from a year earlier.  Barclays has expanded its mergers advisory, debt and equity
underwriting teams in Southeast Asia. Pahwa said he plans to
increase his team of 40 people in the region by 10 percent to 15
percent, hiring senior coverage bankers who focus on different
countries.  Formula One  The bank, led by Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond ,
yesterday reported better-than-expected first-quarter profit as
 investment banking revenue  surged 91 percent from the fourth
quarter. Income at the unit rose to 3.5 billion pounds ($5.7
billion) in the quarter, helped by an increase in revenue from
fixed income, currencies and commodities trading.  Barclays started offering a full suite of investment
banking services in the Asia-Pacific region in 2010 after hiring
Matthew Ginsburg from Morgan Stanley to run the business. The
global investment banking division, which employs 24,000 people,
generated about half of Barclays’s pretax income last year.  Formula One and Malaysia’s Integrated Healthcare Holdings
Sdn. are planning multi-billion dollar initial public offerings
in Southeast Asia this year, according to people with knowledge
of the matter.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  this month announced it
is buying control of PT Bank Danamon Indonesia for about $4.9
billion, while Thailand’s PTT Exploration & Production Pcl
offered to buy Cove Energy Plc for $1.8 billion in February.  “We definitely see an uptick in activity,” said Pahwa.  ‘Well Positioned’  London-based Barclays in the past year advised on deals
including PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure’s purchase of cellular
towers from PT Indosat and Singapore’s ACR Capital Holdings
Pte.’s sale of a stake to Marubeni Corp.  Investment-banking fees in Southeast Asia fell 9 percent to
$1.8 billion last year, according to New York-based researcher
Freeman & Co. That still outperformed the 20 percent drop for
the rest of the Asia-Pacific region, Freeman data show.  Pahwa joined Barclays in November 2010 from Deutsche Bank
AG, where he was vice chairman and head of global banking for
Southeast Asia. Before that, he was with HSBC Holdings Plc in
 London  and  New York  as global head of media and entertainment.
Barclays hired Rafael Carrillo from Citigroup Inc. to run its
Southeast Asia financial institutions group last year.  “Our product build is complete and very robust,” Pahwa
said. “We are well positioned, and prepared to do any deal
that’s important to our key clients.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  