-- Barclays Says 27% of Investors Voted Against Pay Package
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-27T15:56:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/barclays-says-27-of-investors-voted-against-executive-pay-plan.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  was hit by an investor
protest over pay as 27 percent of shareholders voted against
Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond ’s 12 million-pound ($19.5
million) compensation package.  Those opposed failed to block the bank’s remuneration plans
as more than 73 percent of investors who voted supported it,
London-based Barclays said in a statement after its annual
investor meeting today. About 10 percent voted down Barclays’s
pay plans last year.  The bank triggered criticism from investors that it was
enriching employees at the expense of shareholders while failing
to meet its own profitability targets. Diamond, 60, has himself
called the bank’s return on equity last year “unacceptable.”
Chairman Marcus Agius apologized for failing to communicate the
firm’s pay plans to investors more clearly.  “At a time when share price performance is poor, dividend
payouts are weak and management itself is saying that
performance isn’t acceptable, for the CEO to be getting paid
such large sums of money is hard for shareholders to stomach,”
said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool,
who rates Barclays a hold. “Shareholder activism has clearly
been increasing of late and, particularly in the banking sector,
there’s a demand that pay is aligned with performance.”  The Barclays vote comes less than 10 days after Citigroup
Inc. shareholders rejected its executive pay plan amid criticism
it let CEO Vikram Pandit collect millions of dollars in rewards
too easily. About a third of Credit Suisse Group AG investors
who voted today opposed the bank’s remuneration report.  ‘Has to Change’  “The balance of rewards between shareholders and employees
has to change in favor of shareholders, Alison Carnwath,
chairman of the board committee responsible for pay at Barclays,
said at the meeting today. “We will continue to seek to push
down remuneration levels in the context of the competitive
environment.”  About 21 percent of investors who took part opposed
Carnwath’s reappointment as a director, the second-biggest vote
to go against Barclays today.  Pensions Investment Research Consultants Ltd., the U.K.
corporate governance advisers, urged Barclays shareholders on
April 10 to oppose the pay package because it provided “rewards
for failure.” Barclays said in February it may fail to hit its
13 percent target for ROE by 2013 after it fell to 6.6 percent
in 2011.  Diamond and Finance Director Chris Lucas last week agreed
to cut their deferred bonuses for 2011 until the bank improves
profitability in an effort appease investors. The concession is
worth about 11 percent of Diamond’s 12 million-pound ($19
million) compensation for last year.  ‘Not an Option’  Diamond got as much as 6.3 million pounds in salary,
bonuses and stock awards for 2011 as well as a 5.75 million-
pound contribution toward his personal tax bill.  “It is not an option to pay zero bonuses unilaterally,”
Agius said today. Barclays has “very talented people we have to
reward,” he said. “We have not done a good enough job in
articulating our case,” Agius told investors today. “For this
I apologize, and  I assure you that in the future we will be
engaging differently and more purposefully with shareholders.”  Barclays rose 4.7 percent to 223.1 pence in  London  trading
today, for a market value of about 27 billion pounds. The stock
has climbed 27 percent this year, making it the best performer
among Britain’s five biggest banks.  “We are five years into the credit crisis and we are still
having this debate,” said  Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour
Pierce Ltd. in London with a hold recommendation on Barclays.
“The management are making all the right noises, but their
actions suggest they are living on a different planet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  