-- Barcelona Coach Pep Guardiola Quits European Soccer Champion
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-04-27T12:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/barcelona-coach-pep-guardiola-quits-european-soccer-champion.html
Pep Guardiola, the most successful
Barcelona coach ever, will quit the Spanish soccer club after
losses in the last week ended its chance to defend its league
and European titles.  The 41-year-old announced his resignation today at a press
conference. Assistant coach Tito Vilanova will take over, club
president  Sandro Rosell  said.  “After four years, everyone gets tired,” Guardiola said.
“You can only recover by getting away and resting.”  Barcelona lost at home to Real  Madrid  April 21 to fall
seven points behind Real with four games remaining in the
Spanish season. Barcelona was eliminated by Chelsea in the
Champions League semifinals three days later.  Guardiola has overseen two Champions League titles -- more
than any other Barcelona coach -- and three Spanish titles since
replacing  Frank Rijkaard  in 2008. Johan Cruijff and Rijkaard are
the other coaches to have led Barcelona to elite European
titles, in 1992 and 2006.  Guardiola said he would take a break from soccer.  “I will probably return, but not now,” he said.  Guardiola had been coach of the Barcelona reserve team.
Former president Joan Laporta promoted him to lead the first
team after a single season because of his knowledge of the
team’s style.  He captained Barcelona as a midfielder, playing 379 times
for the team between 1990 and 2001. The period included winning
the 1992 European Cup.  Success  In his first season as coach, Barcelona won each of the six
competitions it took part in including Spain’s La Liga and Copa
del Rey, the world club championship and the  Champions League .  Guardiola said he told club executives in February that he
was nearing the end of his stint as coach. He had a rolling
contract that expired at the end of the season, and the former
Barcelona player turned down Rosell’s offer of an extension.  Barcelona lost 1-0 to Chelsea and then was held to a 2-2
draw April 24th at the Camp Nou to lose 3-2 to the London team in
the two-match semifinal.  “I couldn’t make a decision based upon one result,” the
coach said. “My head had already decided that this was my last
season.”  Barcelona’s style under Guardiola has focused on accurate
passing and ball control, giving the team 60 to 70 percent of
possession in most matches. Arsenal coach  Arsene Wenger  said he
was disappointed that the Spaniard was quitting because he
appreciated the squad’s fluid style of play.  Philosophy  “Guardiola is one of the representatives of this
philosophy and made this philosophy triumph so I would have
loved him, even going through a disappointing year, to stay and
come back and insist with his philosophy,” the Frenchman said.
“That would be interesting.”  Vilanova was Guardiola’s assistant for the last several
years. He returned to the training ground last year 15 days
after an operation on a parotid gland. He trained with Guardiola
in Barcelona’s youth squad, but never played in a league match
for the club. The former midfielder played for Celta Vigo in
 Spain ’s top league.  “Why Tito? Because he represents everything that this club
represents,” Barcelona sports director Andoni Zubizarreta.
“The style of play, the analysis, everything. He puts in hours
until he goes to sleep to prepare things. We need somebody like
that.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  