-- Barclays Pledges to Push Down Pay Amid Investor Protests
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-04-27T11:15:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/barclays-pledges-to-push-down-pay-levels-amid-investor-protests.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-
biggest lender, pledged to reduce pay levels as it tries to fend
off an investor revolt over executive compensation.  “The balance of rewards between shareholders and employees
has to change in favor of shareholders,” Alison Carnwath,
chairman of the bank’s remuneration committee, said at the
lender’s annual investor meeting in London today. “We will
continue to seek to push down remuneration levels in the context
of the competitive environment.”  Investors are preparing vote on Barclays’s executive
compensation plan at today’s meeting after Pensions Investment
Research Consultants Ltd., the U.K. corporate governance
advisers urged investors to oppose it. PIRC said the lender had
provided “rewards for failure.” because the bank’s return on
equity was below its cost of equity.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and Finance Director
Chris Lucas last week agreed to cut their deferred bonuses for
2011 until the bank improves profitability in an effort appease
investors opposed to the scale of their pay. The concession,
equal to about 11 percent of Diamond’s 12 million-pound ($19
million) compensation for last year comes after Citigroup Inc.
investors rejected the bank’s pay plans.  Barclays gained 4.55 percent to 222.55 pence at 11:55 a.m.
in London, valuing the bank at 27 billion pounds.  Mystified  “It mystifies me, the amounts of these bonuses being
bandied around,”  Peter Brown , 78, a shareholder and former
employee of the bank’s consumer division, said at the meeting.
“Performance is meant to be the determinant of bonuses and I’m
not sure it is.”  Barclays said in February it may fail to hit its 13 percent
target for ROE by 2013 after it fell to 6.6 percent in 2011. The
bank’s cost of equity was 11.5 percent for 2011.  Chairman Marcus Agius today apologized for failing to
communicate the firm’s executive pay plans more clearly. The
debate over remuneration has caused “reputational damage,” he
said.  “We have not done a good enough job in articulating our
case: on some matters we should have communicated earlier and
more clearly,” Agius said. “For this I apologize and I assure
you that in the future we will be engaging differently and more
purposefully with shareholders.”  The bank has “very talented people we have to reward,”
said Agius. “It is not an option to pay zero bonus
unilaterally.”  Cut Awards  Barclays cut total incentive rewards by 26 percent in 2011
and reduced bonuses for executive directors and its eight
highest-paid senior employees by 48 percent, Carnwath said
today. Barclays’s pretax profit fell by 3 percent in the same
period, she added.  “Whilst we believe in good faith that we got our decisions
and judgments broadly right for 2011, it is clear that this view
is not shared by all shareholders,” Carnwath said. “We made
progress on this journey in 2011 but recognize that we still
have further to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  