-- BASF Beats Estimates on Car-Parts Demand, Oil and Gas
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-04-27T05:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/basf-beats-estimates-on-car-parts-demand-oil-and-gas.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemical maker, reported first-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates as higher demand from car-part makers and more gas
trading helped to counter an increase in raw material costs.  Earnings before interest, tax and one-time items dropped
7.3 percent to 2.53 billion euros ($3.34 billion), the
Ludwigshafen, Germany-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had predicted 2.41 billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock reiterated the company’s
forecast for an increase in earnings and sales for the full year
as the global economy picks up speed in the second half. Bock,
who has been at the helm for almost a year, has said the company
may make acquisitions to help sharpen a focus on innovation and
get closer to the end consumer.  “Increased raw material costs could not be fully passed on
in all business areas, which put pressure on our margins,” Bock
said in the statement. “Our oil and gas and agricultural
solution segments increased their earnings significantly.”  Quarterly sales gained 6.3 percent to 20.6 billion euros,
beating a 19 billion-euro analyst estimate. Net income fell 29
percent to 1.72 billion euros, BASF said. Analysts had predicted
1.58 billion euros.  Recent acquisitions  have accelerated the shift toward
specialty chemicals at BASF, which uses refined oil products and
natural gas as a base for petrochemicals. Those in turn are used
in products ranging from plastics to shampoo and car paint
ingredients. The German company bought Cognis Holding GmbH in
2010 for $3.8 billion to boost its cosmetic ingredients
operations, and dye-maker Ciba the year before for $5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  