-- BlackRock Shifts Brazil Tack on Government Currency Moves
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-04-27T03:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/blackrock-shifts-brazil-tack-on-government-currency-moves.html
Brazil’s currency policies are
driving  BlackRock Inc. (MALTX)  to buy stocks that will benefit from a
weaker real while  Brown Brothers  Harriman & Co. tells its
clients the South American country is losing credibility.  Government moves aimed at depreciating the real and helping
exporters have led to a 8.9 percent drop in the currency since
the end of February, the worst performance in emerging markets.
Central bankers signaled yesterday that they may cut borrowing
costs to a record low as economic growth slows, even as
inflation remains above the mid-point of their target.  Will Landers, who manages $7 billion in Latin American
equities at New York-based BlackRock, said he has put as much as
5 percent of his assets in stocks of Brazilian exporters and
other companies that will benefit when the real trades weaker
than 1.8 per dollar. Investor confidence in  Brazil  has
deteriorated to the lowest since the 1999 devaluation because of
“so many road blocks” in the  currency market , said  Win Thin ,
the global head of emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers.  “We have been moving into some currency-defensive stocks
within Brazil given the government’s policy to keep the currency
at a weaker rate,” Landers said yesterday at the Bloomberg
Latin America Investing Conference in New York. “This is
something we hadn’t done for a while.”  Brazil’s Bovespa has gained 9.6 percent this year, with a
38 percent advance for Embraer SA, the planemaker that sells to
Air France and  American Airlines . That compares with an 11
percent advance of the MSCI Emerging Market Index. The  Brazilian
benchmark (IBOV)  lost 18 percent in 2011 as inflation accelerated to
six-year high in July.  Currency Measures  Policy makers have boosted a tax on foreign loans and
bonds, raised the costs for companies to borrow abroad and
levied a tariff on currency-derivative trading to mute the real,
which strengthened 61 percent in the 10 years through July 2011.
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  has called his country’s policies
an appropriate reaction to a global “currency war” as the
U.S.,  Japan  and  Europe  keep interest rates close to zero.  Mantega said April 3 that a real at 1.80 per dollar would
be “reasonable,” fueling speculation the government is setting
a target instead of allowing for a free-floating currency. The
real fell 0.3 percent yesterday to 1.8856 per dollar.  “The level of frustration I sense among investors and
markets with Brazil is perhaps the worst I’ve seen in a good 10
years,” said Thin, who worked at Alliance Capital Management
from 1997 to 1999 before joining Mandalay Advisors from 2000 to
2007. “Over the last year or so they squandered” some of the
credibility policy makers built up in the past decade, Thin
said.  Real Forecast  Bank of America Corp. cut its year-end forecast for the
real on April 24, citing officials’ efforts to depreciate the
currency. The real will drop to 1.92 by year-end and decline to
1.95 by 2013, compared with the previous forecast of 1.85 and
1.92 for the two periods, strategists led by  David Beker  wrote
in a note. The median forecast of 23 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg is for the real to rise to 1.8 per dollar by Dec. 31.  The central bank’s  interest-rate  cuts are making Brazilian
stocks more attractive, according to Audrey Kaplan, a  money
manager  at Federated Investors Inc. She said she has boosted the
portion of Brazilian stocks in her portfolio to 9.5 percent,
from zero in 2011, as the central bank lowered its benchmark
interest rate 3.5 percentage points since August to 9 percent.  “The environment is more favorable because interest rates
are going down,” Kaplan said at the conference. “Our biggest
concern is the strength of the currency.”  Surprise Cuts  The central bank, led by Alexandre Tombini, said that any
further reductions should be “conducted with parsimony” as
rates approach the record low of 8.75 percent, according to the
minutes of its April 17-18 meeting, released yesterday.  Since taking office 16 months ago, Tombini set interest
rates lower than economists estimated in three out of 10 policy
meetings. No central banker in the world’s top 10 economies has
surprised analysts more often, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, raising concern that Brazil’s policies are becoming
too unpredictable.  Lower interest rates risk fanning inflation. Consumer
prices rose 5.2 percent in March from a year earlier, exceeding
the mid-point of the central bank’s target of 4.5 percent plus
or minus two percentage points.  Marcela Meirelles, a Latin America strategist at TCW Corp
Inc., which oversees $128 billion of assets, said Brazil’s
currency policy helps smooth the real’s swings. Policy makers in
 emerging markets  are justified in adopting unconventional
measures to cope with an influx of capital to avoid currency
overvaluation and instability in the financial system, as
interest rates in advanced economies stay low, she said.  Avoiding Volatility  “I am sort of in a way sympathetic to the concerns policy
makers have,” Meirelles said at the Bloomberg conference
yesterday. “I don’t think volatility is something that we would
welcome.”  Instead of intervening in the currency market, policy
makers should make reforms to help improve the competitiveness
of companies to cope with a stronger real, said Landers.  “It’s unfortunate, because what they should be doing is
not focusing on the currency side, but really focusing on
improving the costs of doing business in Brazil so these
companies could be more competitive,” said Landers.  Investment in Brazil was 20 percent of gross domestic
product in 2011, about the same as in 1980, compared with 38
percent for  India  and 49 percent for  China , according to the
 International Monetary Fund . It’s easier to do business in
Pakistan or Albania than in Brazil, according to the  World
Bank ’s 2012 competitiveness study, which ranked the nation No.
126 out of 183 countries.  The real is “way too strong,” and will remain
“misaligned” for a while,  Alberto Ramos , chief Latin America
economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said at the conference.
Policy makers should foster industries in which Brazil enjoys a
competitive advantage, including mining and agriculture, rather
than orchestrating a weaker currency, he said.  “The biggest pitfall is that policy responses have been
too concentrated on the short-term dynamics,” Ramos said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in  New York  at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in New York at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  