-- China Activist Chen Is Under U.S. Protection, Rights Group Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-28T08:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/blind-legal-activist-chen-guangcheng-safe-in-beijing-group-says.html
Blind legal activist Chen
Guangcheng escaped house arrest in eastern China and is under
U.S. protection, according to a U.S.-based human rights group.  Chen fled earlier this past week from his home in Shandong
province where he had been under house arrest since being
released from prison in September 2010, Midland, Texas-based
ChinaAid reported on its  website . He is now under U.S.
protection and high-level talks are taking place between the
U.S. and China about his status, the group’s founder Bob Fu said
in an e-mail today, citing people close to the situation that he
didn’t identify. Earlier the group had said he was in a safe
location in Beijing.  “Dear Premier Wen, I’ve escaped after trying so hard,” a
man who claimed to be Chen and resembled him said in a video
that was posted on YouTube yesterday, in a reference to Premier
 Wen Jiabao . “I am free now, but I am still very worried because
my beloved wife and son are still under the devilish hands.”  Chen’s reported escape comes days before U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
are due to arrive in Beijing for annual talks. In  Washington ,
State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday that
the U.S. won’t comment on the report and Chinese Vice Foreign
Minister Cui Tiankai, speaking in Beijing today, said he had
“no information” about Chen.  ‘Defender of Freedom’  A U.S. Embassy spokesman in Beijing said he had no new
information on Chen’s status when contacted by Bloomberg News
today.  “This is a pivotal moment for U.S. human rights
diplomacy,” Fu said in the e-mail. “Because of Chen’s wide
popularity, the Obama administration must stand firmly with him
or risk losing credibility as a defender of freedom and the rule
of law.”  ChinaAid hopes the administration will honor Chen’s wishes,
ensure his safety and make sure his family doesn’t suffer
reprisals, Fu said.  The U.S. has taken up Chen’s case in the past. Clinton
mentioned him in a speech in November, saying the U.S. was
“alarmed” by his continued house arrest and calling on  China 
to “embrace a different path.”  ChinaAid’s statement yesterday said Fu has been in touch
with Chen’s friends and family and was told that Chen wanted to
remain in China. He wants to “fight for live a normal life as a
Chinese citizen with my family,” according to the statement on
the group’s website.  Confined to Home  Chen was jailed for more than four years after helping
villagers resist forced abortions, rights groups including the
New York-based  Human Rights in China  say. After his release in
September 2010, he and his wife were confined to their home in
the village of Dongshigu.  Chen is a self-taught lawyer who was blinded by a fever in
infancy, the  Associated Press  reported. He Peirong, an activist
who has led a campaign to free Chen, picked him up and drove him
to a “relatively safe place,” the AP quoted her as saying.  Human Rights in China, citing a “knowledgeable source”
that it didn’t identify, said that Chen’s nephew, Chen Kegui,
was taken from his home by more than 30 policemen yesterday.
Chen Guangfu, Chen Guangcheng’s older brother, was taken away a
day earlier, the group said in an e-mailed statement.  Five lawyers went to Dongshigu village to assist the Chen
family, the organization said in an e-mailed statement dated
yesterday.  Phelim Kine, senior Asia researcher at New York-based Human
Rights Watch, said in a statement that Chen’s case “highlights
the yawning divide between the government’s lofty rhetoric about
rule of law and the far grimmer reality endured by people like
Chen who challenge the status quo.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  