-- BofA’s Merrill Lynch Settlement Inadequate, Lawyers Contend
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-04-27T21:29:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/bofa-s-merrill-lynch-settlement-inadequate-lawyers-contend-1-.html
Bank of America Corp.  directors’
$20 million settlement of investor lawsuits alleging the bank
overpaid when it bought Merrill Lynch & Co. amounts to just 4
percent of the board’s $500 million in insurance coverage and is
inadequate, lawyers objecting to the accord said.  Attorneys for Bank of America shareholders suing in
 Delaware  over the $50 billion acquisition of Merrill Lynch have
asked a judge in that state to keep their claims alive even
though a federal judge in New York is considering a $20 million
settlement of almost identical suits brought by other bank
investors. If that accord is approved, it could wipe out the
Delaware claims.  “The proposed settlement is grossly inadequate and
represents only 0.4 percent of the value of the $5 billion
derivative claims that the Delaware Derivative Plaintiffs have
been vigorously pursuing,” lawyers for the Delaware investors
said in a Delaware Chancery Court filing late yesterday. The
settlement also amounts to “only 4 percent” of available
insurance, they said.  The total amount of insurance coverage for directors of
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, the second-
largest  U.S. bank , was blacked out of the filing. Bloomberg
News’s calculations show the total is $500 million.  The suits in New York and Delaware focus on whether Bank of
America directors violated their legal duties to investors in
approving the 2008 acquisition of Merrill Lynch.  Subprime Meltdown  Disgruntled shareholders contend the board and former Chief
Executive Officer Kenneth D. Lewis misled them about the
brokerage firm’s losses leading up to the buyout and should have
pulled the plug on the deal. Lewis, who left Bank of America in
2009, is now chairman of Chicago-based LaSalle Bank NA.  New York-based  Merrill Lynch , founded by Charles E. Merrill
in 1914, suffered at least $50 billion in losses and writedowns
linked to the collapse of the U.S. subprime mortgage market
before agreeing to the sale in September 2008.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the filing in the Delaware suit against the company’s
directors in a telephone interview today.  Lawyers representing pension funds in Louisiana and  Florida 
who sued in federal court in New York over the Merrill buyout
reached the $20 million settlement April 12, according to court
filings.  Attorneys for investors who sued Bank of America’s board
over the purchase in January 2009 contend the $20 million accord
amounts to a fraction of the damage the company suffered as a
result of the Merrill Lynch buyout.  $150 Million Fine  The Delaware investors filed a so-called derivative action
which would return any recovery from insurance covering
directors to the bank’s coffers rather than to individual
shareholders.  The $20 million New York settlement is about 13 percent of
the $150 million fine the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  levied against Bank of America in 2010 over the
Merrill Lynch purchase.  The SEC accused Bank of America in August 2009 of failing
to disclose to investors it had agreed to let Merrill Lynch pay
as much as $5.8 billion in employee bonuses and incentives.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  New York  called the
original settlement offer a “contrivance” between the SEC and
Bank of America and questioned why bank executives or their
lawyers weren’t sued.  Rakoff later approved the $150 million accord after the SEC
expanded the claims, saying the bank had also failed to disclose
Merrill’s expected losses.  ‘Collusive Process’  The $20 million settlement also resulted from a “collusive
process” between directors’ lawyers and plaintiffs’ attorneys
representing New York investors and is an attempt to avoid an
October trial in Delaware, the Delaware lawyers said in the
filing to Delaware Chancery Court Judge Leo Strine.  Lawrence Portnoy, a New York-based lawyer representing Bank
of America directors, approached attorneys for investors who had
sued in New York with a settlement proposal after lawyers for
Delaware investors rebuffed the idea, according to the filing.  Portnoy testified in pretrial proceedings that he suggested
to the New York lawyers “it might be possible to reach a
settlement based on corporate governance measures,” the
Delaware attorneys said in the filing.  Directors’ Response  Such settlements require companies to change business
practices rather than pay financial penalties. Portnoy declined
to comment on the filing today in a telephone interview.  The $20 million payment, slated to come out of Bank of
America’s insurance coverage, later was added to the accord, the
Delaware lawyers said. The deal also doesn’t’ require any
individual defendants to personally contribute to the
settlement, they added.  Lawyers for Bank of America board members counter in their
own filings that there’s no evidence directors acted in bad
faith in considering the Merrill Lynch acquisition and there are
no grounds for them to be held personally liable for damages
suffered by the bank.  “There are no facts that create a genuine issue as to
whether defendants decided in bad faith not to disclose
information to stockholders,” the board’s lawyers said in an
April 25 filing in Delaware.  Robert Harwood, a New York-based lawyer representing the
New York investors, didn’t immediately return a telephone call
for comment on Delaware attorneys’ arguments that New York
plaintiffs colluded with Bank of America directors to settle the
case cheaply.  The Delaware lawyers have lodged an objection to the New
York settlement with U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel. He hasn’t
decided yet whether to approve the accord.  Stay Request  The Delaware lawyers are asking the Delaware Chancery
Court’s Strine to deny Bank of America directors’ bid to have
the Delaware case put on hold until Castel rules on the New York
settlement.  The New York case is In re Bank of America securities,
derivative and employee retirement income securities act
litigation, 09-02058, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan .) The Delaware case is Nancy Rothbaum v.
 Kenneth D. Lewis , CA4307, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  