-- BOJ Expands Asset-Purchase Fund to 40 Trillion Yen
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-27T03:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/boj-expands-asset-purchase-fund-to-40-trillion-yen.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  added monetary
stimulus for a second time in three months amid mounting calls
from lawmakers to redouble efforts to spur economic growth.  The central bank expanded its asset-purchase fund to 40
trillion yen ($494 billion) from 30 trillion yen, according to a
statement released in  Tokyo  today. It also extended the maturity
of bonds it buys to 3 years from a two-year limit. All 14
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted an increase in
the fund, the central bank’s main policy tool.  Government reports today showed industrial  production  rose
less than analysts anticipated in March, a sign growth may be
moderating. Lawmakers have stepped up pressure on the central
bank to ease policy by rejecting a board member candidate some
said wasn’t aggressive enough about stimulus and weighing to
alter a law that guarantees the central bank’s independence in
setting monetary policy.  “The timing for stimulus isn’t ideal as it looks like the
BOJ gave in to political pressure and market expectations,”
 Masayuki Kichikawa , chief economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said before today’s decision. “The BOJ will probably
have to continue easing for at least the next two years as the
end of deflation is very far.”  The Bank of  Japan  left the  key rate  between zero and 0.1
percent and reduced the 35 trillion yen credit-lending program
by 5 trillion yen.  Consumer Prices  A report later today will probably show the central bank’s
projections for prices this year and next are still far from its
1 percent target. Board members will probably say consumer
prices will rise 0.6 percent in the year starting April 1 from
the current forecast of 0.5 percent in the report due at at 3
p.m., according to 10 of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Shirakawa will speak to reporters at 3:30 p.m. Core
prices, the bank’s preferred measure that excludes fresh food,
rose 0.2 percent in March, the statistics bureau said today.  Lawmakers blocked BNP Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro Kono 
from joining the BOJ board this month. There have been two
vacancies on the nine BOJ board since April 5. Lawmakers from
the biggest opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  are calling for
the central bank and government to pursue an inflation target of
2 percent, according to a policy outline released April 13. Some
LDP members are compiling a bill to revise the BOJ law to allow
more political power over monetary policy.  The BOJ may add more stimulus in July, when it will review
forecasts released today, said analysts including Mari Iwashita,
chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Bond Purchases  The BOJ unexpectedly boosted its bond purchases by 10
trillion yen and set an inflation goal of 1 percent in February,
helping weaken the yen to an 11-month low against the dollar.
The currency traded at 81.11 as of 9:58 a.m. in Tokyo.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
this week that the currency is the unpredictable “one-thousand-
pound gorilla” that makes all Japanese car manufacturers
suffer.  Rising pressure on the BOJ comes as Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to convince lawmakers to double a 5
percent sale tax to contain the world’s largest public debt
burden. Political pressure will remain high as politicians want
to show public that the nation is making progress toward the end
of deflation so a tax hike won’t be too much of burden,
Kichikawa said.  The BOJ’s asset-purchase has swelled from its initial 5
trillion yen size when it was introduced in October 2010.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  said the central bank
stands ready to add to its stimulus if necessary even after
leaving its policy unchanged on April 25. The U.K. economy
shrank in the first quarter as Britain slid into its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s, the  Office for National
Statistics  said this week.  “Overseas economies as a whole have yet to emerge from a
deceleration phase,” Deputy Governor  Kiyohiko Nishimura  said
last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  