-- Brazilian Stocks Post Weekly Decline on U.S. Recovery Concern
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-04-27T20:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/bovespa-futures-rise-as-u-s-spending-data-fuels-growth-optimism.html
The Bovespa index posted a weekly
decline after lower-than-forecast growth in the U.S. squelched
optimism about the economic recovery in  Brazil ’s second-biggest
trading partner.  Cyrela Brazil Realty SA Empreendimentos e Participacoes ,
the country’s second-biggest real-estate company by revenue,
dropped to a three-month low. Retailers Lojas Renner SA and  Cia.
Hering (HGTX3)  advanced after reporting first-quarter results. Unicasa
Industria de Moveis SA rallied in its first day of trading after
raising as much as 425.6 million reais ($226 million) in an
initial public offering April 25.  The Bovespa fell 0.8 percent to 61,691.21 at the close in
Sao Paulo, pushing the weekly decline to 1.3 percent. Thirty-six
stocks dropped while 31 gained. The real weakened 0.1 percent to
1.8870 per  U.S. dollar  at 5:26 p.m. local time.  “The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast, and
investors were expecting good numbers to support expectations of
a recovery,” Gustavo Mendonca, an economist at Oren
Investimentos, said by phone from Rio de Janeiro.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
first quarter after expanding at a 3 percent pace in the final
three months of 2011, a government report showed today. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for
2.5 percent expansion. Household purchases increased 2.9
percent, exceeding the most optimistic projection. Homebuilding
grew the fastest in almost two years.  Cyrela, Unicasa  Cyrela dropped 7.8 percent to 15.75 reais, the worst
performance on the  BM&F Bovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV) , which slid
1.9 percent. Unicasa gained 9.7 percent to 15.36 reais.  Hering, Brazil’s second-biggest clothing retailer, gained 3
percent to 46.81 reais, the steepest one-day advance in a month.
First-quarter profit rose 38 percent to 70.2 million reais,
according to a regulatory filing. The result was above the 67.3
million reais average estimate of five analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Lojas Renner, the country’s biggest clothing retailer,
jumped 3.4 percent to 60.20 reais. The company said in a
regulatory filing that profit fell 24.9 percent to 35.7 million
reais in the first quarter. The result was below the 39.7
million reais average estimate of eight analysts in a Bloomberg
survey.  Renner’s earnings “were affected by operating expenses,
especially those related to the opening and reshuffle of stores,
which is seen as positive,” Leonardo Zanfelicio, an analyst at
Concordia Corretora, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “Investors
expect sales at this industry to advance during this year.”  Interest-Rate Futures  Yields on most Brazilian  interest-rate  futures contracts
dropped as traders bet the country has shifted its focus from
controlling inflation to boosting economic growth by lowering
borrowing costs. The yield on the contract due in January 2014
declined 10 basis points, or 0.1 percentage point, to a record
low 8.71 percent.  The IGP-M index of wholesale, construction and consumer
prices rose 0.85 percent in April, the Getulio Vargas Foundation
said on its website today. The median estimate of 36 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a rise of 0.75 percent. The
same index had risen 0.43 percent in March.  “Investors are expecting further rate cuts because that’s
what the central bank is signaling, not because it is the right
thing to do at this moment,” Rogerio Freitas, partner at
Teorica Investimentos, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro .
“There may be additional cuts in the short term, but inflation
data for the next 12 months show prices rising again.”  Target Rate Cuts  Policy makers last week cut the benchmark rate by 75 basis
points to 9 percent, saying a still “fragile” global economy
is curbing inflation. The bank has lowered the rate by 350 basis
points since August to just above the record low of 8.75 percent
in an attempt to bolster economic growth.  The central bank’s interest-rate cuts are making Brazilian
stocks more attractive, according to Audrey Kaplan, a  money
manager  at Federated Investors Inc. She said she has boosted the
portion of Brazilian stocks in her portfolio to 9.5 percent,
from zero in 2011, as the central bank lowered its benchmark
interest rate 3.5 percentage points since August.  “The environment is more favorable because interest rates
are going down,” Kaplan said yesterday at the Bloomberg Latin
America Investing Conference in  New York . “Our biggest concern
is the strength of the currency.”  Bovespa Year-to-Date  Brazil’s benchmark equity measure has  gained  8.7 percent
this year, buoyed by local interest-rate cuts, signs of
expansion in the U.S. and speculation  Europe  may be closer to
resolving its sovereign-debt crisis. The gauge has fallen 9.8
percent since this year’s high on March 13 as signs of a
slowdown in  China  spurred speculation demand for commodities
exports may falter.  The Bovespa trades at 10.5 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, in line with the 10.6 ratio for MSCI Inc.’s measure
of 21 developing nations’ equities, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Trading  volume  was 5.83 billion reais in stocks in  Sao
Paulo  today, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That compares with
a daily average of 7.23 billion reais this year through April
25, according to data from the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  