-- Brasil Foods Profit Trails Estimates on Weakening Demand
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-04-30T13:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/brasil-foods-profit-slumps-as-asian-poultry-demand-wanes.html
BRF - Brasil Foods SA (BRFS3) , the world’s
largest poultry exporter, fell the most in seven months after
reporting first-quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates
because demand in Asia and the Middle East weakened.  Brasil Foods dropped 3 percent to 34.78 reais at 10:47 a.m.
in Sao Paulo, after earlier declining as much as 4.4 percent,
the most since Sept. 22. It was the worst performer on the
benchmark Bovespa index, which slipped 0.1 percent.  Net income slumped to 153 million reais ($81 million), from
383 million reais a year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based foodmaker
said April 27 after markets closed. That compares with a 243.7
million-real average estimate of six analysts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Waning demand for the company’s chicken and turkey exports
to the  Middle East  and  Japan  pushed down prices, while the cost
of  animal feed  rose. Sales dropped 5.4 percent to 6 billion
reais in the quarter.  “The main reasons for the shortfall were lower export
prices and increased production costs,” Sao Paulo-based Itau
BBA analyst Alexandre Miguel, who maintained his market-perform
rating on the shares, said in a report today. “Operating
margins were down in all divisions as price increases did not
offset cost pressure.”  Export margins will likely rebound in coming quarters,
Chief Financial Officer Leopoldo Saboya said in a news
conference after the earnings release. The foodmaker also
expects its debt rating to be raised to investment grade,
allowing it to sell debt more frequently at lower costs, he
said.  ‘Frequent Issuer’  “We are likely to become a frequent debt issuers after
getting the investment grade from the three rating agencies,”
Saboya said.  The company received a $500 million, three-year revolving
loan from 19 banks led by  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , according to an April 27 regulatory filing.  Before today, Brasil Foods fell 1.6 percent in Sao Paulo
trading this year, compared with the benchmark’s 8.7 percent
gain.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  