-- Brazil’s Coffee Discount Widens as New Crop Nears, Brokers Say
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-27T09:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/brazil-s-coffee-discount-widens-as-new-crop-nears-brokers-say.html
Buyers of coffee from Brazil, the
world’s largest producer, are getting a bigger discount for
beans as the new-crop harvest approaches, brokers said.  Fine cup beans for May and June shipment are trading at a
discount of 8 cents a pound to the price on ICE Futures U.S. in
 New York , data from Rio de Janeiro-based broker Flavour Coffee
showed. That compares with a 5-cent discount last week,
according to the data.  Buyers of good cup beans for shipment in the same period
are getting a discount of 15 cents a pound to the exchange
price, up from 12 cents last week, Flavour Coffee said in a
report e-mailed yesterday. Fine cup coffee is usually more
expensive than good cup quality because of its taste profile.  “Some aggressive differentials could be locked in at good
discounts, both for fine and good cup qualities,” Thiago Cazarini, a broker at Varginha, Brazil-based Cazarini Trading
Co., said in a report e-mailed yesterday, referring to a
discount or a premium to obtain physical coffee in relation to
the futures price. “Some new-crop lots appeared in the
market.”  Growers in  Brazil  will harvest a record 49 million to 52.3
million bags of coffee in the 2012-13 season, exceeding the high
of 48.5 million bags in 2002, according to a Jan. 10 report from
Conab, the government’s crop forecasting agency. The season
usually starts in July and growers normally start harvesting the
crop at the end of May or beginning of June.  Robusta Premium  Conillons, as Brazilian robusta coffee is known, are
trading at a premium of 3 cents a pound ($66 a metric ton) to
the price on NYSE Liffe in London for May and June shipments,
unchanged from last week, Flavour Coffee said.  A “reasonable quantity” of conillons traded this week for
shipment as far as July, Flavour Coffee said, without providing
a figure for the sales.  “This is quite surprising considering conillons are on
harvest, and therefore much more volume can arrive in the
domestic market, thus forcing prices down,” the broker said.  Brazil’s coffee exports will be about 2 million bags in
April, down from 2.1 million bags last month, Flavour Coffee
estimated. Each bag weighs 60 kilograms (132 pounds).  Robusta coffee for July delivery fell 0.1 percent to $2,008
a ton by 10:04 a.m on NYSE Liffe. Arabica coffee for July
delivery rose 0.1 percent to $1.7595 a pound on ICE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in  London  at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 