-- California Estate Valued at $87 Million Sells at Auction
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-04-27T04:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/california-estate-valued-at-87-million-sells-at-auction.html
A bankrupt real estate agent’s
hilltop mansion, conceived during Southern California’s property
 boom  and once given an estimated value of $87 million, was sold
at auction.  The unfinished Italianate villa on 12.5 acres (5.1
hectares) in  Newport Beach  comes with a man-made lake, horse
stables, vineyard, tennis court, 17-car garage and views of the
 Pacific Ocean  and Santa Ana Mountains.  “We have a successful bidder,” Rob Giem, an agent with
 Sotheby’s International Realty , which had the listing, said in a
text message last night.  The highest bid and identity of the winner aren’t being
disclosed because the deal is in escrow, Giem said. Last night’s
sale was conducted by  Irvine , California-based Auction.com after
the estate failed to find a buyer on the open market with a $37
million asking price. The minimum bid required for the property
to sell at auction wasn’t disclosed.  Originally named Villa del Lago, the estate was conceived
by John McMonigle, the No. 1 U.S. sales agent for Coldwell
Banker in 2004 and 2005, at a time when Orange County’s real
estate market was fueled by wealth from locally based -- and now
defunct -- subprime lenders, including Ameriquest Mortgage Co.
and New  Century Financial Corp. (CYFL)   McMonigle and his investors paid $3.2 million for the land
in 2003. Six years later, the property had an expected value of
$87 million, according to the  Orange County Register , a local
newspaper. The estate was first placed on the Multiple Listing
Service in May 2010 for $57 million. The asking price dropped to
$37 million in January 2011, after OneWest Bank FSB cut off
construction funding and as McMonigle tried to avoid bankruptcy.  McMonigle lost the estate, now known as One Pelican Hill
Road North, to a group of investors who put $10 million into the
project. The property also has a $20 million construction loan
held by OneWest, which acquired the debt after the original
lender, La Jolla Bank, failed in 2010, according to bankruptcy
court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  