-- California April Taxes Falling Short as Brown Readies Budget
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-04-27T21:26:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/california-april-taxes-falling-short-as-brown-readies-budget.html
California  personal-income-tax
collections in April are falling short of Governor  Jerry Brown ’s
projection by more than $2 billion, data from Controller John Chiang show. The state is already facing a $9.2 billion deficit
through June 2013.  With two days to be counted, the state has taken in $6.74
billion since April 1, according to a  daily tally  on Chiang’s
website. Brown’s projection for the month was $9.13 billion.  Brown, a 74-year-old Democrat, will unveil a revised budget
in mid-May based on the newest figures. He’s already said that
the deficit may widen by $1 billion or $2 billion because
lawmakers resisted spending cuts he proposed and lawsuits
blocked other reductions. California has fought deficits every
year since 2007 as tax collections suffered from the longest
recession since the 1930s.  “We’ve been in troubled times since July 2007 and we are
going to continue to see tough times ahead,” Chiang, a
Democrat, said in a telephone interview. “We have to be smart
and prudent with our fiscal discipline.”  In January, Brown proposed a $92.6 billion budget that
would cut $4 billion from health and welfare programs and that
counts on voters approving higher taxes in November to prevent
deep education cuts.  Hair Trigger  The budget, for the fiscal year that begins July 1,
includes a mechanism that triggers $4.8 billion in reductions to
public schools and colleges if voters reject higher taxes. The
trigger will ensure that the state by year’s end can pay off
short-term cash-flow loans. Absent that assurance,  Wall Street 
might not lend to the state at affordable rates.  California’s nonpartisan Legislative Analyst’s Office said
personal-income-tax collections as of April 25 lagged behind
Brown’s projection by about $2 billion. Corporate taxes also
were behind: The state began the month $304 million behind
projections, and since has trailed Brown’s $1.53 billion April
estimate by about 10 percent, the office said.  “These data and an updated economic forecast will be
reflected in a revised revenue forecast,” said Brown’s budget
spokesman, H.D. Palmer.  Last year, Brown and Democrats passed an $85.9 billion
budget that assumed the nascent recovery would pour $4 billion
of extra revenue into the treasury. It never happened,
triggering $1 billion of cuts to school transport, universities,
programs for the elderly and disabled, child care, libraries and
prisons.  This year, to avoid such reductions, Brown will ask voters
to raise the  sales tax , already the nation’s highest, to 7.5
percent from 7.25 percent, and boost rates on income starting at
$250,000. Those making $1 million or more, now taxed at 10.3
percent, would pay 13.3 percent, the most of any state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  