-- California’s Mad Cow Had Been Euthanized After Falling Ill
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-04-27T03:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/california-s-mad-cow-had-been-euthanized-after-falling-ill.html
The first U.S. case of mad cow
disease in six years was discovered in a 10-year, 7-month old
dairy animal in Tulare County,  California , that was euthanized
after it developed lameness, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture 
said.  The animal’s carcass will be destroyed, the USDA said in an
e-mailed statement late yesterday. The cow was targeted for
testing at a rendering facility as part of the department’s
surveillance program for the brain-wasting disease, known as
bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE, the USDA said.  “This animal was never presented for slaughter for human
consumption, so at no time presented a risk to the food supply,
or to human health in the  United States ,” the USDA said in the
statement. BSE isn’t spread through milk. The department on
April 24 had announced that the infected animal had been found,
while providing few details.  This is the fourth animal found with BSE in the U.S. herd,
and the first since March 2006. After the initial case in 2003,
dozens of countries banned U.S. beef, and exports fell 82
percent to 460.3 million pounds the following year. This time,
 Canada ,  Mexico ,  Japan  and  South Korea  -- the four biggest buyers
-- and the European Union have said they won’t halt purchases.
 Indonesia  said yesterday it was restricting imports.  Scientists say the disease is spread through feed that
contains brain or spinal-cord tissue from infected animals.
People can get a form of the fatal illness from eating products
containing such tissues. Since 1997, feed made from mammals has
been banned from cattle rations. Slaughterhouses are also
required to remove high-risk materials to ensure they don’t
enter the human food supply.  The California animal was diagnosed with a rare form of the
disease called atypical BSE, which develops spontaneously and is
not contracted through infected feed. This form of BSE is also
consistent with an animal born after the feed ban, officials
say.  Once “at-risk” cattle are identified, they are killed and
tested, the USDA said.  Investigations typically include tests of animals that were
in the same herd as the diseased cow, as well as feed the animal
may have consumed. Even when an animal tests positive for a form
of BSE not connected to feed, as in this case, the investigative
procedures are the same, according to John Clifford, the USDA’s
chief veterinarian. Any offspring of the infected animal are
also checked.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  