-- Canada to Improve Transparency in Foreign Takeover Reviews
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-04-27T17:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/canada-will-allow-public-comments-on-investment-review-process.html
Canada  plans to change its foreign
takeover legislation to make reviews more transparent as it
seeks to assure business the country remains open to investment.  The changes, introduced yesterday as part of a budget bill,
will allow the industry minister to publicly explain why an
acquisition has been blocked as long as the information doesn’t
cause harm to the businesses involved,  Industry Canada  said in a
news release today.  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is seeking to strengthen
investor confidence in the review process amid criticism the
system is unpredictable, after his government rejected a hostile
takeover bid for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc.  by  BHP
Billiton Ltd (BHP)  in 2010. Harper has said that decision stemmed from
unique circumstances.  “We want our foreign investment review process to continue
to promote economic growth,  job creation  and prosperity in
Canada,” Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in the
statement.  Under Canada’s foreign-takeover law, known as the
Investment Canada  Act , the government reviews foreign takeovers
valued at more than C$330 million ($336 million) in assets to
ensure the transaction represents a “net benefit’ to the
nation.  Canada’s system for weighing takeovers is ‘‘highly
subjective and unpredictable,” the Toronto-based C.D. Howe
Institute said in a study released in December. The rules may
have contributed to the decline in Canada’s share of global
foreign-direct investment, it said.  Disclosure  The changes will allow the government to disclose when the
industry minister has sent a preliminary notice to an investor
that that an acquisition isn’t  a “net benefit” to the
country. The department also said the changes will allow the
minister to “accept security” for payment of any court-ordered
penalties for contravention of the Investment Canada Act by
investors.  The amendments are included in a bill introduced yesterday
by Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  to implement measures in the
March 29  budget . The government said in the budget that it would
introduce changes to the takeover law that will be in “the
interests of greater transparency while preserving investor
confidentiality.”  Canada’s rejection of the proposed $40-billion hostile
takeover by BHP Billiton Ltd. of Potash Corp. was only the
second time a foreign takeover had been scuttled under the act,
which has been in force since 1985.  Harper’s Conservative government also blocked a bid by
Minneapolis-based  Alliant Techsystems Inc. (ATK)  in 2008 to acquire
the aerospace division of Vancouver-based MacDonald, Dettwiler
and Associates Ltd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  