-- Canadian Stocks Rise With Metals, Rise for a Second Week
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-04-27T20:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/canadian-stocks-rise-with-metals-rise-for-a-second-week.html
Canadian stocks  advanced, capping
their second straight weekly gain, as metal and natural gas
producers rose with prices for the commodities.  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , a gold producer that operates in
Canada, Mexico and Finland, gained 9.6 percent after reporting
profit that beat analyst estimates.  Encana Corp. (ECA) , the country’s
biggest natural gas producer by volume, increased 3.8 percent.
 Petrominerales Ltd. (PMG) , a Calgary-based oil company that operates
in  Latin America , plunged 18 percent after saying an exploration
well was dry.  The  Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  increased 91.90
points, or 0.8 percent, to 12,237.75 in Toronto, for a 0.7
percent weekly gain. Natural gas futures rose to a three-week
high and copper and gold increased as the  U.S. dollar  weakened
following government data showing the American economy grew at a
slower-than-forecast rate of 2.2 percent, even with the biggest
gain in  consumer spending  in more than a year.  “You’re finally seeing the private sector pick up the
slack while government stimulus trails off,” Barry Schwartz, a
money manager at Baskin Financial Services Inc. in Toronto, said
in a telephone interview. The firm oversees about C$400 million
($400 million). “I think there’s a big possibility for a
rebound.”  The benchmark gauge had its first weekly gain in almost two
months in the five days ending April 20, snapping its longest
losing streak since 2008. Canadian stocks have rallied this week
on better-than-forecast corporate earnings and U.S. housing data
that exceeded expectations.  Gold Producers Rise  Materials companies increased along with gold futures,
which advanced for the second straight day as the dollar
declined, increasing demand for the metal as an alternative
investment.  Agnico-Eagle Mines gained 9.6 percent to C$38.66 after
reporting earnings excluding some items of 59 cents a share,
exceeding the average analyst estimate of 37 cents.  Barrick Gold
Corp. (ABX) , the world’s largest producer of the metal, climbed 1.4
percent to C$39.88.  Energy stocks in the S&P/TSX increased as natural gas
rallied on forecasts of colder-than-normal weather in the
eastern and central U.S. that may boost demand for the heating
fuel.  Encana increased 3.8 percent to C$20.18. Cenovus Energy
Inc., the oil sands company spun off by Encana, advanced 3.4
percent to C$35.17.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the
country’s third-largest energy company, rose 2.1 percent to
C$33.31.  Dry Well  Petrominerales plunged 18 percent to C$14.09 after the
company said it found no hydrocarbons at the La Colpa 2X well on
Block 126 in Peru after completing testing.  Progressive Waste Solutions drove in index of Canadian
industrials lower, dropping 4.5 percent to C$21.44. The nation’s
biggest waste-management company reported earnings excluding
some items of 20 cents per share, falling short of the average
analyst estimate of 23 cents.  TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Canadian exchange owner facing a C$3.73
billion takeover by a group of Canadian banks and pension funds,
rose 4.6 percent to C$44.70 after an antitrust regulator said
its “serious concerns” on the sale may be mitigated by
proposed rules governing the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  