-- Capitol Infrastructure, Pay TV Provider, Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-04-27T21:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/capitol-infrastructure-pay-tv-provider-files-bankruptcy-1-.html
Capitol Infrastructure LLC, which
provides television and Internet services to multifamily housing
projects, filed for bankruptcy, blaming in part a contract
dispute with DirecTV.  Capitol, based in Cary,  North Carolina , operates under the
name of Connexion Technologies. It listed debt of as much as
$500 million, including at least $87.7 million in secured loans,
in court papers filed yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  After a five-year turnaround effort, the company concluded
earlier this year that its “deteriorating relationship with
DirecTV and their overall corporate complexity made it highly
unlikely the debtors would be able to obtain adequate financing
in a timely fashion,” Chief Executive Officer Glen D. Lang said
in court papers.  The company is shuttering some operations and firing
employees to “achieve a sustainable level of operations and to
maximize value in connection with a sale,” Capitol said in
court papers.  “Connexion, and Connexion alone, needs to take
responsibility for their current situation,”  DirecTV (DTV)  said in a
statement provided by spokesman Robert G Mercer. “Under the
terms of our arrangements with Connexion, we properly exercised
our right to terminate some contracts for business reasons.”  Video, Internet Service  The 10-year-old company provides video, phone and Internet
services to housing properties owned by real estate trusts, such
as gated communities, apartment and condominium complexes and
mobile-home parks. As of Dec. 31 it had 570 full-time employees
and annual revenue of $69.2 million.  The top three unsecured creditors are DirecTV, owed
$2.4 million; Level 3 Communications LLC, owed $1.3 million; and
Wise Owl Communications Inc., owed $738,000.  Capitol is owned by Capitol Broadband LLC, which isn’t in
bankruptcy. Twelve other Capitol subsidiaries also filed
bankruptcy.  The company’s financial troubles began in 2007 when the
housing crisis caused a slowdown in homebuilding. Capitol’s
business model relied on installing and operating cable,
telephone and Internet services at new housing projects.  The company installed communications networks in some
projects that were later canceled or scaled back, leaving too
few customers to make the projects profitable.  Revenue Effort  In 2007, Capitol focused on increasing revenue from the
existing housing projects it serviced. That program also failed
to generate a profit, so in 2011 the company became a so-called
master system operator for DirecTV. That allowed the company to
collect commissions from DirecTV customers at its housing
projects.  DirecTV canceled multiple contracts with Capitol’s
operating units “resulting in a dramatic negative impact on
significant parts of the debtors’ cash flow starting in March
2012,” Capitol said.  The company said it will seek approval of a so-called
debtor in possession loan so it can keep operating while in
bankruptcy.  The case is In re Capitol Infrastructure LLC, 12-11362,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 