-- Carbon Price Needed to Halt Warming, NASA Chief Says
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-04-27T11:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/carbon-price-needed-to-halt-warming-nasa-chief-says.html
Putting a price on carbon is the
world’s best hope at staving off runaway global warming, said
 James Hansen , the top climate-change scientist at the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  Carbon emitted from cars and factories will have to be
reduced by an average of 6 percent a year to stabilize Earth’s
climate by the end of the century, Hansen said late yesterday in
Vienna. Government subsidies to oil, gas and coal companies,
worth up to $500 billion worldwide each year, have impeded
the transition to alternative technologies, he said.  “The most efficient and economically affordable approach
is to put an honest price on the different energies,” Hansen
said yesterday at a  European Geosciences Union  meeting.
“Presently, we’re subsidizing fossil fuels and not making them
pay for their costs to society.”  Hansen and 17 co-authors, including Colombia University
economist  Jeffrey Sachs , last month published an  updated report 
that argued real carbon costs are distorted because of their
long-term impacts on the climate and people’s health. A fair
carbon price, phased in over 10 years, would stimulate
development of new technologies that don’t burn fossil fuel.  State spending to cut retail prices of gasoline, coal and
natural gas was about $409 billion in 2009, the Paris-based
 International Energy Agency  said in November in its World Energy
Outlook. Aid for biofuels, wind power and solar energy was $66
billion.  Public Cost  “The air and water pollution from fossil fuels is enormous
and borne entirely by the public, just as the cost of  climate
change  will be borne by young people and not the fossil-
fuel companies,” Hansen said. “Rather than subsidizing fossil
fuels or subsidizing solar panels, we should simply put a price
on carbon.”  Carbon prices in the European Union, where the element is
traded among members of the 27-nation block, yesterday jumped
the most in over a week amid higher electricity prices in
 Germany  and as the U.K. said its February coal use was the most
in three years.  EU carbon allowances for December rose as high as 7.38
euros ($9.76) a metric ton and closed 2.6 percent higher at 7.34
euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . Oil markets
act as bellwethers for the economy and signal demand for
emissions permits.  Hansen, who was arrested outside the White House in August
when he joined protesters urging President  Barack Obama  to
reject a new $7 billion oil-pipeline project, said academic
publishers had frowned at his activism.  “It can be a problem if you get lableled as an activist,
but once you’re 70 years old you can afford it,” he said.  The 28-page report argues that “the most basic matter is
not one of economics” when it comes to confronting climate
change.  “It is a matter of morality -- a matter of
intergenerational justice,” the paper says. “As with the
earlier great moral issue of slavery, an injustice done by one
race of humans to another, so the injustice of one generation to
all those to come must stir the public’s conscience to the point
of action.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net  