-- Cash Hoards Reduce Bond Sales to Least Since ’06: Credit Markets
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-04-27T09:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/cash-hoards-reduce-bond-sales-to-least-since-06-credit-markets.html
Global corporate bond issuance is
poised for the slowest April in six years as companies reduce
their reliance on debt markets while sitting on cash reserves
that are about the highest on record.  Company bond sales worldwide have declined 53 percent to
$190 billion through yesterday, the least for an April since
2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The slowdown
follows a record $1.17 trillion of deals in the first quarter,
when strains from  Europe ’s debt crisis eased and companies
borrowed at interest rates that approached the lowest ever.  Bank of America Corp.  and Morgan Stanley followed
Fairfield, Connecticut-based General Electric Co. in plans to
cut bond offerings as net debt falls at the two banks.
Corporations have been repairing balance sheets and increasing
cash reserves as a gradually improving global economy helps
companies recover from the biggest financial crisis since the
Great Depression.  “A lot of companies have a tremendous amount of cash at
hand to run the normal course of operations, and the ones that
needed to tap the market have already done so,” Jody Lurie, a
corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in
Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “The only need to
tap the market right now is for shareholder rewards or
acquisitions.”  ‘Flush With Cash’  The ratio of cash to total assets for companies in the
 Standard & Poor’s  500 Index has held at about 10 percent after
reaching a record 10.3 percent in September, Bloomberg compiled
data show. The ratio is up from 5.6 percent in April 2007. Net
debt dropped to 2.2 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization at the end of March. The figure
was at 5.1 times before the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008, Bloomberg data show.  “Companies are flush with cash and have already termed out
their liquidity,” said  Ashish Shah , head of global credit
investments at AllianceBernstein LP in  New York . Given the
strong demand in the first quarter, “companies were happy to
issue into that given low rates,” which fell to as low as 4.12
percent in March, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
Global Broad Market Corporate & High Yield Index.  Elsewhere in credit markets,  Molson Coors  Brewing Co.
issued $1.9 billion of bonds to help pay for its intended
acquisition of StarBev LP of Prague. The Federal Reserve Bank of
New York said it sold $7.5 billion of collateralized debt
obligations linked to commercial mortgages to  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
Deutsche Bank AG. Chemicals-maker Ineos Group Holdings Ltd.
increased the size of a loan to $3.025 billion.  Swap Spreads Rise  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate  swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, rose for the first time in three days,
increasing 1.3 basis points to 30.31 basis points. The gauge,
which has climbed from 23.50 on March 28, the lowest level since
August, widens when investors seek the perceived safety of
 government securities  and narrows when they favor assets such as
corporate bonds.  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. fell for a third day to a three-week low.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
declined 1.4 basis points to a mid-price of 96.2 basis points,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has dropped
from 104.3 on April 10, the highest level since Jan. 20.  GE Bonds  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings increased 1.5 to 144 at 10 a.m. in
 London . The  Markit iTraxx Japan  index jumped 4 to 183.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  General Electric (GE)  were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers yesterday,
with 168 trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The world’s largest jet-engine maker sold $700
million of debt on April 25 after issuing $3.1 billion of debt
the previous day.  Molson Coors  Molson Coors sold $300 million of five-year, 2 percent
notes that yield 125 basis points more than Treasuries, $500
million of 10-year, 3.5 percent securities at a 160-basis point
spread and $1.1 billion of 5 percent, 30-year notes at a 190-
basis point premium, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Standard & Poor’s rated the debt BBB-, one level above junk.  The beer producer is turning to the dollar-denominated  bond
market  for the first time since 2007 to help fund the $3.5
billion StarBev purchase, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Montreal- and Denver-based Molson Coors may lose its
investment-grade ratings unless it improves its financial
profile after the deal, S&P said in a note on April 3.  Three teams of Wall Street firms were competing for the
Fed’s commercial-mortgage debt, which was assumed in the 2008
bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , according to
people familiar with the transaction. Citigroup Inc., Credit
Suisse Group AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. also joined forces,
as did  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , Morgan Stanley and Nomura Holdings
Inc.  Ineos Loan  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
rose for a fourth day to the highest level since March 30. The
measure tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans and has returned 4.8 percent this year.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- by S&P.  The loan for Ineos, a Swiss chemicals producer, is a
covenant-lite deal, which don’t carry typical lender protection
such as financial maintenance requirements, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Barclays and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  are arranging the debt,
which includes a $2 billion portion and a $650 million euro-
denominated slice, both due in six years, and a $375 million
facility maturing in three years, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter, who declined to be identified because
the deal is private.  In  emerging markets , relative yields rose for the first
time in three days, increasing 1 basis point to 353 basis
points, or 3.53 percentage points, according to  JPMorgan’s EMBI
Global index . The measure has averaged 373 basis points this
year.  ‘Engraved in Stone’  Global corporate bond sales this year of $1.36 trillion
through yesterday are outpacing the $1.3 trillion from the same
period last year, Bloomberg data show. Issuance this month is
the least since the $184.3 billion sold in April 2006.  Corporate bond offerings tend to be slower in April
compared with the first three months of the year as companies
delay issuance plans before reporting quarterly earnings.  “The typical pattern for this time of the year is pretty
much engraved in stone,” Marc Pinto, head of corporate bond
strategy at New York-based Susquehanna International Group,
wrote in an e-mail. “Release earnings, issue bonds, repeat.
It’s just not happening this quarter.”  Financial companies are reducing debt offerings as they
shift to businesses that require less capital and as cash
holdings increase.  GE, BofA Outlook  Morgan Stanley (MS) , which has shifted to a “more liquid flow-
focused business,” didn’t refinance a majority of its $16
billion of debt that matured or was retired in the first
quarter, the bank’s chief financial officer, Ruth Porat, said in
an April 19 conference call.  Bank of America, which sold about $6 billion of debt in the
first quarter, according to Bloomberg data, expects to offer
less than $5 billion for the remainder of the year as its excess
liquidity sources soared to a record $406 billion at the end of
March, Chief Financial Officer Bruce R. Thompson said in a
conference call last week.  GE, the leading U.S. corporate issuer in 2011, has sold
$17.3 billion of debt this year compared with $18.6 billion in
the same period last year. Its GE Capital finance unit expects
to have “lower debt issuances” in 2012, Chief Executive
Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  said in January.  Bond sales breached records in the first quarter as
Europe’s debt strains eased and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
Bernanke  said March 13 he was holding to his plan of keeping the
benchmark interest rate close to zero through at least 2014.  The world economy will grow by 3.5 percent this year, the
Washington-based  International Monetary Fund  said April 17 in
its World Economic Outlook, boosting its forecast from 3.3
percent in January.  Appetites Tempered  “Given the stronger market tone earlier in the year and
all in-yields that were near record lows, some companies front-
loaded their issuance in the first part of the year, which helps
explain the current slowdown in primary market activity,”
Barclays credit strategist Alex Gennis said in a telephone
interview.  Investor appetites also have been tempered by a broader
selloff starting earlier this month as Europe’s sovereign debt
crisis flared again and as economic reports fell short of
expectations, said Hans Mikkelsen, a high grade credit
strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  Spain’s sovereign credit rating was cut to BBB+ from A by
Standard & Poor’s yesterday on concern the nation will have to
provide further fiscal support to the banking sector.  Orders for U.S.  durable goods  fell 4.2 percent in March,
the most in three years, and March new  home sales  fell 7.1
percent to 328,000 annual rate, figures this week showed.  “It’s a bit of a risk-off moment for the market, which
tends to lead to less supply as well,” Mikkelsen said in a
telephone interview.  While issuance will pick up from companies needing to tap
the market to fund acquisitions, it probably won’t revive sales
to the pace set in the first quarter, Janney’s Lurie said.  “Companies are shifting away from  capital markets  to
finance their balance sheet,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  