-- Chalice Gold Sees Sale of Eritrea Stake to China SFECO by August
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-04-27T09:49:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chalice-gold-sees-sale-of-eritrea-stake-to-china-sfeco-by-august.html
Chalice Gold Mines Ltd. (CHN) , an
Australian explorer for the metal, expects China SFECO Group to
complete an $80 million purchase of its stake in Eritrea’s Zara
mine by August, Chief Executive Officer Doug Jones said.  China SFECO, a unit of  Shanghai Construction Co. (600170) , agreed to
buy the 60 percent stake after Chalice faced difficulties
raising finance for the project because of United Nations
sanctions against the Horn of Africa country, Jones said in an
e-mailed response to questions on April 23.  “The main reason for the sale is the difficulty in raising
development funds in the current market,” he said. It’s “a
problem exacerbated by the UN sanctions against Eritrea.”  Eritrea, which has been ruled by President Isaias Afwerki since winning independence from  Ethiopia  in 1993, is
under sanctions for its alleged support of al-Qaeda-
linked militants seeking to topple the UN-backed government of
Somalia. The government denies the accusations. In December, the
UN Security Council asked mining companies to
“undertake appropriate measures to promote the exercise of
vigilance” in dealings with Eritrea’s mining industry.  The state-owned Eritrean National Mining Corp. bought a 30
percent interest in Zara, which includes the 840,000-ounce Koka
gold deposit, for $32 million in July, taking its holdings to 40
percent, according to Chalice’s website. China SFECO plans to
begin production from the mine in 2014, said Jones.  “The transaction will help the group further expand the
business scope in Eritrea,” Shanghai-based SFECO said in a March
22 statement on its website.  UN Sanctions  In 2009, the  Security Council  voted 13-1 to impose an arms
embargo on Eritrea and asked a sanctions committee to ban the
travel and freeze the foreign assets of designated individuals.
Libya voted against the resolution, while China abstained. No
Eritrean officials have been identified by the committee,
according to a Feb. 17 statement on the Security Council’s
website.  The UN expanded sanctions in December because of the
“potential use of the Eritrean mining sector as a financial
source to destabilize the Horn of Africa region,” according to
the resolution. Investment in Eritrea’s mining industry would
have been banned if an initial draft of the resolution had been
adopted.  Other companies with operations in Eritrea include
 South Boulder Mines Ltd. (STB) , a West Perth, Australia-based company
developing a potash mine, and Canada’s  Nevsun Resources Ltd. (NSU)   Chalice plans to continue exploring for precious metals in
Eritrea at the Mogoraib North VMS Project, it said in a
statement on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 William Davison  in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 