-- Chelsea to Target Real’s Higuain, Sun Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-04-27T10:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chelsea-to-target-real-s-higuain-sun-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the
Web.  Striker Moves  Chelsea will offer 35 million pounds for Real Madrid
striker Gonzalo Higuain, a bid that the Spanish club might
accept because it’s looking to sign Manchester City’s  Sergio Aguero ,  the Sun said.   The London club is looking for a replacement for Didier Drogba, who may leave after the season, the newspaper said. By
selling Higuain to his former club, Real manager  Jose Mourinho 
may get funds to make an unsolicited bid for Aguero, the Sun
said.  Junior’s Advance  Sunderland will compete with  Bayern Munich  and Marseille to
sign Blackburn’s Junior Hoilett should the player’s club be
relegated to the Championship this season, the  Daily Mail  said.  The Canadian has been with Blackburn since he was 13, and
scouts from several clubs have watched him play this season, the
newspaper said.  Villa Choices  Aston Villa  may try to sign Norwich manager Paul Lambert
should the Birmingham club fire Alex McLeish,  the Sun said.   Villa has won just once in 13 matches and is just three
points above the relegation zone. Club officials will review
McLeish’s performance whether the team is relegated or not, the
newspaper said.  Mancini Safe  Manchester City coach  Roberto Mancini  said he won’t be
fired if the club fails to win the Premier League after spending
hundreds of millions on new players, the Guardian said.  The Italian’s contract has a year remaining, and Mancini
said he’s “not worried about it,” the newspaper said. City
plays  Manchester United  next week in a match that may decide the
title.  Hargreaves Leaving  Owen Hargreaves will leave Manchester City after the season
after playing only four times this season,  the Guardian said.   Hargreaves was on a pay-as-you-go contract with City and
hasn’t played in the first team since an F.A. Cup loss to United
in January, the newspaper said.  The 31-year-old may not be ready to retire, the newspaper
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  