-- Chesapeake’s Outlook Dims Amid Board Reversal on CEO Loans
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-27T13:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chesapeake-s-outlook-dims-as-board-switches-course-on-ceo-loans.html
Shareholder confidence in
 Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  sank to its lowest point since the 2008
global economic meltdown as company directors reversed course on
the need to examine Chief Executive Officer Aubrey McClendon’s
personal financial transactions.  Chesapeake’s board, propelled by a plunging stock price and
potential conflicts between McClendon’s personal finances and
corporate duties, said yesterday it would end a program allowing
its chairman and CEO to buy stakes in the company’s wells and
review loans McClendon obtained by using those investments as
collateral.  “Simply letting the Founders Well Participation Program
expire is too little, too late,” said New York State
Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli, who oversees 3.1 million
Chesapeake shares held by the $140 billion New York State Common
Retirement Fund. “Much more needs to be done to restore
investor confidence.”  Chesapeake shares have  tumbled 25 percent  since the end of
March, heading for the worst monthly performance since 2008. A
growing number of investors are  betting  the stock will continue
to drop.  One out of every 13 shares available for trading was sold
short as of April 24, close to the 8.5 percent level reached
last month that was the highest in 3 1/2 years, according to New
York-based research firm  Data Explorers . That’s more than double
the average for energy producers in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  Reviewing Personal Loans  So-called short investors bet a stock will fall by selling
borrowed shares with the expectation of repurchasing them at a
lower price.  Seeking to counter criticism that its oversight was too
lax, the company said in a statement yesterday its board would
review all financing transactions between McClendon and “any
third party that has had or may have a relationship with the
company in any capacity.”  The U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission has opened an
informal inquiry into the loans, Reuters reported yesterday,
citing an unidentified source familiar with the matter. SEC
spokesman  Kevin Callahan  declined to comment.  Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, didn’t respond to a
phone message or e-mail requesting comment.  Turmoil Danger  Controversy over McClendon’s personal portfolio has
compounded the impact of collapsing gas prices on Chesapeake’s
shares, Sean Sexton, managing director at Fitch Inc., the
Chicago-based credit-rating company, said yesterday in an
interview. U.S. natural-gas futures, pressured by a supply glut
from new wells in shale formations, lost 54 percent of their
value in the past year.  Chesapeake fell 1.5 percent to $17.29 at 9:42 a.m. in  New
York .  The turmoil could hamper Chesapeake’s ability to meet its
“massive” funding requirements stemming from its aggressive
spending and weak  cash flow , Scott Sprinzen, a debt analyst at
S&P in New York, said yesterday in a note to clients. Sprinzen
lowered Chesapeake’s corporate credit and senior secured debt
ratings to BB from BB+.  Chesapeake’s 4.5 percent convertible preferred shares
tumbled more than 8 percent today, the biggest decline since
December 2008, on concern the company’s ability to pay a
quarterly dividend may be impaired.  Continued Role?  Questions about potential conflicts of interests involving
McClendon’s personal finances stirred debate over his continued
role at the company.  Mark Hanson , a Chicago-based analyst at
 Morningstar Inc. (MORN) , said the board should separate the chairman
and CEO positions to minimize McClendon’s influence over a panel
that is supposed to watch over him.  Philip Weiss , an Argus
Research analyst in New York, said McClendon and the entire
board should be fired.  “The decision about whether Aubrey should go ought to be
left to a board that is able to operate independently from
him,” said Michael Garland, director of corporate governance
for New York City Comptroller John C. Liu, said yesterday in an
interview. “Given the litany of historic indications and most
recent indications, this board appears to be incapable of doing
that.”  The city comptroller’s office, which says it manages 1.57
million Chesapeake shares worth $28.4 million in pension funds,
has proposed that the company allow large, long-term
shareholders to nominate board candidates. A vote is scheduled
at the company’s June 8 annual meeting in  Oklahoma City .  $846 Million in Loans  For most of the past 23 years, McClendon has purchased as
much as 2.5 percent in every well the company has drilled. The
program was established to tie the CEO’s fortunes to company
performance and requires McClendon to cover a proportionate
share of each well’s expenses.  His share of such costs was $973 million for the 2009 to
2011 period, the company said in an April 20 filing.  McClendon got a $1 billion line of credit with EIG
Management Co. LLC, according to a Nov. 18 deed filed in Brooke
County,  West Virginia . EIG Management is a unit of EIG Global
Energy Partners LLC, which participated in a $1.2 billion
preferred-shares purchase in a Chesapeake subsidiary on April 9.  McClendon said in a separate statement yesterday that he
personally had $846 million in outstanding loans related to the
well-participation program.  Generally, Not Fully  The directors yesterday backed away from last week’s
endorsement of McClendon’s practice of using his stakes in
company wells as collateral to secure those loans. Chesapeake
General Counsel Henry J. Hood issued an April 18 statement that
directors were “fully aware of the existence of Mr. McClendon’s
financing transactions” and that they didn’t represent a
conflict of interest.  By that, he meant directors were “generally aware” that
McClendon had used his interests in company-operated wells as
collateral for personal loans, and the board hadn’t reviewed or
approved any of the individual transactions, Oklahoma City-based
Chesapeake said in its statement yesterday.  “The board was aware of but neither approved or reviewed
the loans. Where were they? They have an obligation to look
deeper,” Garland said.  Under McClendon’s stewardship, Chesapeake is planning to
sell $14.9 billion in assets by the end of next year to close a
 funding gap  that  Standard & Poor’s  estimates could reach $9
billion in 2011. The company raised $2.6 billion earlier this
month through the sales of preferred stock, gas fields and
future production.  2008 Free Fall  The recent decline in Chesapeake’s  stock price  is
reminiscent of late 2008, when McClendon was forced to sell
almost all his stock in the company to meet margin calls.
McClendon dumped millions of shares over the course of a few
days, accelerating a freefall in October and November 2008 that
wiped out more than half the company’s market value.  Andrew Behar, chief executive officer of As You Sow, a San
Francisco-based corporate-activism group that has clashed with
Chesapeake over environmental issues, doubted the latest
controversy would cost McClendon his job.  “They’ll find some jiu-jitsu way of rationalizing his
behavior,” Behar said “ Aubrey McClendon  operates that company
in his own image.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  