-- Chesapeake Bars Executives From Well Deals That Enriched Chief
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chesapeake-bars-executives-from-well-deals-that-enriched-chief.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the U.S.
natural-gas producer criticized for allowing its top executive
to invest in the company’s wells, prohibits other senior
managers from the same practice.  Executives who oversee finance, operations and acquisitions
for Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake have employment contracts
that bar them from any investment or involvement in the oil and
gas industry outside of their duties for the company, a review
of Securities and Exchange Commission filings showed.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  has
been borrowing hundreds of millions of dollars annually -- some
from Chesapeake’s financiers -- to participate in a perk
reserved only for the CEO that allows him to buy stakes in
company-owned wells. After defending the well-ownership policy
last week, directors said on April 26 they will halt the program
and review McClendon’s loans. Chesapeake shares have  fallen 24
percent  this month.  “As a shareholder, I’d want to know why the CEO is allowed
to invest in these properties, but these other executives are
not,” said Don Delves, president of The Delves Group, a
Chicago-based corporate-governance advisory firm. “This has the
potential to create differentiated interests within the company
and its management team.”  Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, didn’t respond to
telephone or e-mail messages seeking comment. Directors didn’t
respond to requests for comment or couldn’t be reached.
Chesapeake rose 0.9 percent to $17.72 yesterday in New York.  No Outside Business  Chief Financial Officer Domenic Dell’Osso’s November 2010
employment agreement includes a clause that bars him from
engaging in any business activities independently of the
company, including any investments or participation in owning,
drilling or supplying equipment to oil and gas wells.  The agreement permits Dell’Osso to retain any royalty
interests, well stakes or publicly-traded securities acquired
prior to his employment by Chesapeake, or inherited.  The same language is included in the employment agreements
for Chief Operations Officer Steven C. Dixon and Executive Vice
President of Acquisitions Douglas J. Jacobson.  McClendon reaped a $61 million pretax gain by selling some
of his well stakes in 2011, according to a statement he issued
on April 26. He obtained loans through his control of three
private companies -- Arcadia Resources LP, Larchmont Resources
LLC and Jamestown Resources LLC, which held a combined $846
million in outstanding loans at the end of December, according
to the statement.  Satisfying Obligations  Under the incentive plan known as the Founders Well
Participation Program, McClendon has been allowed to buy stakes
of as much as 2.5 percent in most of the wells the company
drilled for more than two decades. To satisfy an obligation to
pay leasing and drilling costs proportionate to his stake in
each well, McClendon has borrowed the cash, using his well
interests as collateral.  The CEO has been criticized by investors and analysts for
borrowing from firms that do business with Chesapeake because of
the potential for conflicts of interest.  “It’s not something I’d seen before and it sets the
company apart from the rest of the group,” said Tom Nelson, who
counts $13.5 million in Chesapeake shares among the $450 million
he co-manages for Guinness Atkinson Asset Management Ltd. in
 London . Such “exceptional financial arrangements,” Nelson
said, are “a source of suspicion and anxiety” for investors.  Business With EIG  McClendon obtained a personal line of credit for $1 billion
last year from EIG Management Co. LLC, a unit of EIG Global
Energy Partners LLC, which participated in a $1.2 billion
preferred-shares purchase in a Chesapeake subsidiary three weeks
ago.  Directors said they and the CEO have agreed to negotiate an
early termination of the Founders Well program, which is
scheduled to expire in 2015, and to review all loans with third
parties that also do business with Chesapeake.  “Shame on the board,” said  Fadel Gheit , an oil and gas
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. in  New York . “This is a very
unusual, very unorthodox privilege and they should have gotten
rid of it long ago.”  Canceling the well-ownership program “puts the company
back in line with its industry peers, which is what the market
wants to see,” Nelson, the Guinness Atkinson fund manager,
said.  Stock Ownership  As CFO, Dell’Osso, a former Jefferies & Co. banker who
helped Chesapeake structure a series of forward gas sales prior
to joining the company, is required under his employment
agreement to own at least 25,000 Chesapeake shares. Dell’Osso
owned 355,471 shares as of March 30, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  McClendon has been investing in wells since at least 1983,
first on the basis of handshake agreements and later under
formal contracts, said Tom Ward, who merged his closely-held
company with McClendon’s in 1989 to create Chesapeake.  From the outset, McClendon and Ward bought personal stakes
in company-operated wells, continuing the program after the
company became publicly traded in 1993, Ward said in a telephone
interview. After leaving Chesapeake in 2006 to start  SandRidge
Energy Inc. (SD) , Ward instituted a similar well investment program.  As gas prices began to collapse in the middle of 2008, Ward
said he sold his Chesapeake well stakes to a third party he
declined to identify. He sold his interests in SandRidge-
operated wells back to the company and ended the wells-
investment perk.  Previous Well Owner  Marcus Rowland, an early Chesapeake investor who went on to
serve as CFO for 18 years, also purchased stakes in company
wells, McClendon said during a presentation to analysts in
 Oklahoma City  in October 2010.  Rowland stepped down as CFO in 2010 and now is CEO of FTS
International LLC, a Fort Worth-Texas-based hydraulic-fracturing
company part-owned by Chesapeake. McClendon and Dell’Osso are
directors. Rowland didn’t return a phone message seeking
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  