-- Chevron Quarterly Profit Misses Estimates as Output Falls
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-27T20:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chevron-first-quarter-net-income-rises-as-crude-oil-prices-climb.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, missed first-quarter profit and sales
estimates as falling production blunted the impact of surging
 oil prices .  Excluding a gain from the sale of a Spanish fuels-marketing
business, per-share profit was 11 cents less than the average of
16 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net income rose
4.2 percent to $6.47 billion, or $3.27 a share, from $6.21
billion, or $3.09, a year earlier, the  San Ramon , California-
based company said in a statement today.  Chief Executive Officer John S. Watson has been contending
with the downside of higher oil prices: a decline in output as
some project contracts reduce the company’s share of production
when global crude rises. The company said the higher price it
receives for oil more than makes up for the decrease in its
share.  Chevron gains $40 of earnings for every dollar lost to
price effects, Jeanette Ourada, general manager of  investor
relations , said on a conference call with analysts today.  Natural-gas output also declined in the U.S. as the lowest
prices in a decade discouraged drilling.  Gas Production Curtailments  “We are seeing the mothballing of some conventional
natural-gas production at these low  price levels ,” said Robbert Van Batenburg, head of research at Louis Capital Markets LP in
New York. “They can’t really fight that.”  Chevron pumped the equivalent of 2.63 million barrels of
crude a day during the quarter, a 4.7 percent drop from 2.76
million produced a year earlier, according to the statement.
Sales rose 0.8 percent to $58.9 billion, 7.8 percent less than
the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Chevron  fell  2 cents to $106.20 at the close in  New York .
The shares have dropped 0.2 percent this year.  U.S. gas output dropped by 7.9 percent to 1.17 billion
cubic feet a day. Crude production in the U.S. declined by 5.4
percent and fell by 6.3 percent internationally, the company
said.  Brent crude futures, which serve as the benchmark for two-
thirds of the world’s crude, jumped 12 percent to average
$118.45 a barrel during the quarter. Every $1 increase in the
price of oil reduces the company’s production volume by 1,000
barrels a day, Watson told analysts and investors in New York on
March 13.  Neutral Effect  The earnings will have a neutral effect on Chevron’s stock,
Barclay’s analyst  Paul Cheng  wrote in a note to clients. The
market will focus on stronger-than-expected results in its
exploration and production segment, Cheng wrote in the note,
pointing to the company’s higher per-barrel profit.  Chevron saw profit equivalent to $25.80 per barrel, Cheng
said, up from $24.10 in the year-earlier period and above
Barclay’s estimate of $25.30. Cheng rates Chevron’s stock as
overweight, which means investors should buy.  Chevron said on April 10 that it recorded a $200 million
gain during the quarter from the sale of Spanish assets.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  reported $9.45 billion in first-quarter
profit yesterday, an 11 percent decline from a year earlier. The
Irving, Texas-based company is the largest U.S. energy producer
by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  