-- Chilean Peso Posts Weekly Gain as Copper Boosts Trade Outlook
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-27T17:52:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chile-peso-poised-for-weekly-gain-as-copper-boosts-trade-outlook.html
Chile’s peso completed its first
weekly gain in three weeks as higher copper prices signaled a
larger  trade surplus  for the biggest producer of the metal.  The peso strengthened 0.4 percent to 483.35 per  U.S.
dollar , extending an increase for the week to 0.6 percent.  Stocks rose in  Europe  after Vinci SA, Europe’s largest
builder, reported first-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates. Copper for July delivery gained as much as 1.5
percent to $3.83 a pound in  New York  after stockpiles fell.  “We have seen copper rise from $3.6 a pound,” said
Alejandro Araya, a currency trader at Banco Santander Chile in
Santiago. “There’s been some corporate dollar selling from
mining companies that need pesos to finance spending on
machinery and salaries.”  Copper accounts for half of  Chile ’s exports. Stockpiles
monitored by the London Metal Exchange are at the lowest level
since November 2008 and those tracked by  Shanghai ’s exchange are
the lowest in more than two months.  Local investors trimmed their long peso position in the
forwards market to $16 billion on April 25 from $16.5 billion a
day earlier. Offshore investors had a $6.9 billion short
position, little changed from $7 billion a day earlier,
according to data published today by the central bank.  Swaps markets and inflation forwards were little changed
after an increase in corporate tax and a cut in income tax
announced by President Sebastian Pinera last night. The two-year
break-even inflation rate rose three basis points to 3.2
percent. The forwards market for unidades de fomento, Chile’s
inflation-linked currency unit, today priced in 2.94 percent
pries rises this year, unchanged from yesterday.  “We need more information to be able to describe the
impact,” said Nathan Pincheira, an economist at Banchile
Inversiones in Santiago. “We don’t know how much of this
proposal will be passed or when.”  Pinera proposed cutting tax on loans, which would translate
into a 0.5 percent one-off decline in monthly inflation,
Pincheira said. “But we don’t know which month so it’s hard to
price into assets,” he said.  Pinera also proposed a flexible tax on fuel, to mitigate
volatility in  oil prices , and a tax rebate on school fees.  Economists at Bice Inversiones in Santiago estimated the
lower loan tax may cut inflation by 1 percentage point.
Economists at Banco de Credito e Inversiones estimated it would
lower inflation by 0.4 percentage point in the month it came
into effect. BCI estimates assume the tax cuts won’t come into
effect this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  