-- Chile to Raise Corporate Taxes as Students Reignite Protests
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-04-27T16:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chile-to-raise-corporate-tax-rate-as-student-protests-resume.html
Chile ’s President Sebastian Pinera
will raise corporate taxes to fund education as he looks to head
off a repeat of last year’s students protests that shuttered
schools and led to weekly confrontations with police.  The government will increase the corporate  tax rate  to 20
percent from 18.5 percent, while reducing income taxes and the
stamp duty on loans, Pinera said in a televised address to the
nation last night. The state will also cut fuel costs through a
sliding tax rate and increase taxes on hard liquor. The measures
will raise as much as $1 billion a year, Pinera said.  The government decided to overhaul the tax system after
students led seven months of demonstrations last year to
pressure authorities to increase spending on education. Protests
resumed this week with at least 48,000 students marching through
Santiago, the biggest demonstration in seven months, according
to police estimates.  “Our entire society is making an enormous effort to
finance this educational reform,” Pinera said. “We all must
commit ourselves to this. That being said, the success of this
education reform basically depends on the goodwill, effort and
commitment of our students.”  Pinera’s administration will fast-track legislation in
Congress to reduce  interest rates  on  student loans  to 2 percent
from 6 percent, Education Minister Harald Beyer told reporters
in Santiago this week. Students will start repaying the loan
once they enter the workforce, paying no more than 10 percent of
their salaries. The government will also guarantee merit-based
scholarships for 60 percent of the poorest students, he said.  Taxes on Loans  The tax on bank loans would fall from 0.6 percent to 0.2
percent under the proposed changes, benefiting 2.8 million
people. The amount paid by households for income tax will
decline as much as 15 percent and families will be able to
deduct a portion of their spending on education, Pinera said.  The changes don’t go far enough to reduce the cost and
increase access to schooling, Santiago-based newspaper  El
Mercurio  quoted student leader Gabriel Boric as saying in its
 online edition last night .  “They are reducing taxes for those who earn the most,”
Boric said in reference to income tax cuts. “Demonstrations
must continue.”  Green Taxes  Other proposed changes include implementing “green” taxes
and subsidies for recycling, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain
told reporters in Santiago today. The state gradually will
eliminate import tariffs by 2015 from today’s 6 percent, he
said.  The Pinera administration will work to reduce corporate  tax
evasion  by eliminating legal loopholes, preventing companies
from reducing their tax burden by transferring funds to offshore
havens, Larrain said.  The changes are appropriate even though they will reduce
the amount of money companies have to invest, Eliodoro Matte,
chairman of Chile’s second-biggest forestry company  Empresas
CMPC SA (CMPC) , told reporters in Santiago after a shareholder meeting
today.  “Given what it will be used for, I’m in agreement with
it,” he said.  In addition to funding education initiatives, the changes
will reduce inequality while sustaining economic growth that was
6 percent last year and 6.1 percent in 2010 -- the fastest
expansion in more than a decade, Larrain said.  Ability to Grow  “In a world rocked by crisis,” Pinera said last night,
“Chile has retained its ability to grow, to create jobs.” The
government “will continue with a serious and responsible
economic policy.”  Chile has the highest level of  income inequality  among the
34 members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. The country’s  Gini coefficient , an index of the
 income gap  where 0 represents complete equality and 1 complete
inequality, is 0.497 compared with 0.476 in  Mexico  and 0.378 in
the U.S., according to the Paris-based organization.  Also according to the OECD, Chilean households pay for 39
percent of their total education bill -- the highest level in
the Paris-based group. By comparison, households in the U.S.
finance 21 percent of their schooling.  “We want to improve education and equality, but without
sacrificing our ability to grow and create jobs,” Larrain said.
“This is the  tax reform  that Chile needs.”  Third Change  This will be the third time that Pinera’s government has
altered the tax regime since entering office in March 2010.  The government in 2010 temporarily raised corporate taxes
from 17 percent to 20 percent to help finance reconstruction
following the 8.8-magnitude earthquake that struck southern
Chile the month before Pinera assumed office. The corporate rate
fell to 18.5 percent in 2012 and would have declined to 17
percent next year.  Pinera also temporarily increased taxes on mining companies
in 2010 in a bid to raise funds for rebuilding as well as social
and education programs.  Raising corporate taxes to 20 percent would reduce  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) ’s price estimate for Chile’s  IPSA Index (IPSA)  of stocks
by 2.5 percent, with builder  Salfacorp SA (SALFACOR)  and power producer
 Colbun SA (COLBUN)  suffering the greatest reductions, Francisco Errandonea, an analyst with the bank in Santiago, wrote in a
March 13 note to investors.  The IPSA was down 0.1 percent to 4554.94 at 12:48 p.m.
local time from yesterday.  The government on April 30 will introduce the new tax
legislation to Congress, Pinera said last night.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  