-- China’s Stocks Drop as Profit Concerns Overshadow Easing Bets
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T07:20:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-on-earnings-concerns.html
China’s stocks  fell, capping the
benchmark index’s first weekly losses in a month, as slumping
corporate earnings overshadowed speculation the central bank
will ease monetary policy to boost economic growth.  China Cosco Holdings Co. led declines for shippers after
reporting a wider loss.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , Asia’s
biggest refiner, dropped the most in four weeks after posting a
slump in net income. Liquor maker Kweichow Moutai Co. jumped 3.6
percent, pacing gains for consumer staples stocks, on
speculation their earnings are more resilient in a slowdown.  “First-quarter earnings are supposed to be very poor,”
said  Zhang Ling , general manager at  Shanghai  River Fund
Management Co. “The market still needs some time to digest
these bad numbers.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 8.4 points, or 0.4
percent, to 2,396.32 at the close. It lost 0.4 percent this
week. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  slid 0.2 percent to 2,626.16. China’s
markets are closed April 30 and May 1 for the holidays. The
 Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded
U.S.-listed Chinese companies, added 1.6 percent at the close in
New York.  About 11.6 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite yesterday, or 29 percent more than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 17.1, the
lowest in a month.  The Shanghai index has climbed 9 percent this year amid
speculation the government will take measures to boost the
economy. Stocks in the gauge are valued at 10.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on Jan. 6,
according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Head and Shoulders  The index may be forming a so-called inverse head-and-
shoulders pattern that could drive it up 17 percent should it
break its 200-day moving average of 2,470, according to Trading
Central  Asia  Ltd.  The Shanghai Composite is “now approaching the neckline of
its potential reversal pattern” after rebounding 12 percent
from this year’s low on Jan. 5, Jeffrey Zhang, Hong Kong-based
head of Asia research at Trading Central, said today in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Chinese industrial companies’ profit rose 4.5 percent in
March, rebounding from the first January-February decline since
2009 as demand strengthened.  Company profits climbed from a year earlier to 438.9
billion yuan ($69.6 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its website today. Net income dropped 5.2 percent in the
first two months of 2012.  Earnings Slump  China Cosco, the nation’s biggest publicly traded shipping
company, fell 1.5 percent to 5.31 yuan. The company posted a
wider first-quarter loss because of higher fuel prices and lower
fees for carrying containers and commodities. Cosco Shipping Co.
slipped 0.4 percent to 5.09 yuan.  Sinopec declined 1.4 percent to 7.18 yuan. The company
posted a 35 percent drop in profit, missing estimates, after
increases in state-controlled gasoline and diesel prices lagged
behind gains in crude-oil costs.  Eight hundred and eighty-two companies in the Shanghai
Composite have released annual earnings. They posted profit
growth of 14 percent on average, trailing analyst estimates by
2.2 percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That
compared with an increase of 38 percent in the previous year.  A gauge of consumer staples producers in the CSI 300 rose
1.7 percent, the most among the 10 industry groups. Moutai, the
biggest producer of baijiu liquor, gained 3.6 percent to 224.56
yuan. Rival Wuliangye Yibin added 0.9 percent to 35.62 yuan.  Communist Newspaper  People.cn Co., the online business of the Chinese Communist
Party’s official newspaper, jumped as much as 78 percent on its
trading debut in Shanghai after the company raised almost three
times the amount it initially sought. The stock surged to as
much as 35.58 yuan, prompting the  Shanghai Stock Exchange  to
suspend trading of the shares twice.  China ’s stocks are twice as likely to rise on Fridays
compared with Mondays as investors bet officials will announce
looser monetary policies during the weekend to stimulate growth,
recent history shows.  The Shanghai Composite gained 76 percent of the time on
Fridays starting from Nov. 25, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. By comparison, the gauge rose on 38 percent of the
first trading days of the week in the period, taking into
account two Monday holidays. The Shanghai index rose an average
of 0.4 percent on Fridays in the five-month period, versus an
average decline of 0.2 percent as the week commenced.  “Excitement about policy movements on Friday usually turns
to disappointment on Monday,” said Dai Ming, a  fund manager  at
Shanghai Kingsun Investment Management & Consulting Co.
“Investors keep pushing back their expectations for reserve-
ratio cuts. But loosening is definitely on the way.”  U.S.-Traded Stocks  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., climbed for a third straight
day, adding 0.6 percent to $37.74.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  called on China
to loosen state control of its financial system and to raise the
ceiling on deposit interest rates.  “Financial sector reforms are critical to China’s
continued growth -- and that growth in turn represents
tremendous opportunity for American companies and workers,”
Geithner said in remarks prepared for a speech in  San Francisco 
yesterday. “Financial reform in China will help reduce one of
the main advantages China’s state-owned enterprises have in
competing with U.S. companies.”  Geithner was speaking before his trip to China next week to
meet with officials of the world’s second-largest economy. The
U.S. will raise longstanding issues from the value of China’s
currency to intellectual property protection.  Reserve Ratios  Speculation that Chinese policy makers will undertake more
easing of monetary policy has been bolstering the nation’s
equities, said Michael Gayed, chief investment strategist in  New
York  at Pension Partners LLC, which advises on more than $150
million in assets.  “Markets price on hope and the rumor is that China is
going to stimulate to counter slower growth given  Brazil  and
 India  have already lowered rates,” Gayed said by phone
yesterday. “China is the last one to start really actively
doing that.”  China has cut  reserve requirements  for banks twice since
November, though it has kept benchmark rates on hold since July
at the highest level since 2008. India reduced its repurchase
rate by 50 basis points on April 18, while Brazil’s Selic rate
has been cut six times since August.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  