-- China Forestry Says Acting CEO Quit, Losses Deepened
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-04-27T11:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-forestry-says-acting-ceo-quit-losses-deepened.html
China Forestry Holdings Co. (930) , the
Chinese timber company whose shares have been suspended since
January last year because of accounting irregularities, said its
acting chief executive officer has resigned and losses deepened
as it struggled to rebuild its business relationships.  Acting CEO Li Jian resigned effective from April 15,
according to statement today from the Beijing-based company.
Chairman Li Kwok Cheong will be China Forestry’s acting CEO
before the company finds a replacement. No reason for the
departure was given.  “Last year, the company experienced difficulties in
resuming its business operations as more effort was put into the
investigations,” Chairman Li said in a separate statement to
the  Hong Kong  stock exchange. “As a result, the recovery of our
business was slower than expected and harvesting and trading
business were limited in 2011.”  China Forestry, partly owned by private equity firm  Carlyle
Group , had to replace  KPMG  LLC in January after the auditor
resigned, saying the company needs to verify ownership and
valuation of assets. At least six disputes have broken out this
year between auditors and Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong,
spurring distrust among investors about corporate governance.  China Forestry’s loss for last year was 4.19 billion yuan
($664 million), compared with loss of 2.71 billion yuan in 2010,
according to the stock exchange statement. Sales fell 63 percent
to 392.3 million yuan.  Detained By Police  China Forestry’s former chief executive officer, Li Han
Chun, was detained by police in Guizhou province in February,
2011, for alleged embezzlement of 30 million yuan, the company
said. Li and his personal company are guilty of insider dealing
when they sold 119 million shares of China Forestry through a
share placement, Hong Kong’s securities regulator said March
2011.  The company formed a committee of independent directors in
January 2011 to conduct an inquiry after KPMG identified
irregularities. It said last April the bank statements given to
KPMG by the former management team were falsified and some
logging permits were fake. China Forestry hired Crowe Horwath HK
CPA Ltd. as its auditor in January.  Four Hong Kong-listed Chinese firms, including  Boshiwa
International Holding Ltd. (1698) , a Shanghai-based Harry Potter
apparel licensee, said their auditors resigned this year because
of disputes over financial data or other key information. Two
companies said their auditors needed more time to verify
earnings.  Hong Kong’s  Financial Reporting Council  announced April 11
that it had identified 13 Chinese companies in need of close
monitoring. The agency, which investigates auditing and
reporting irregularities of public traded companies, declined to
name them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in Hong Kong at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  