-- China Carbon Blockage Begins to Ease: Energy Markets
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-27T12:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-carbon-blockage-begins-to-ease-energy-markets.html
China  is starting to approve
emission credits after a seven-month freeze, stoking speculation
a glut that’s contributed to an unprecedented decline in
European carbon prices will keep growing.  The world’s second-biggest economy this month began issuing
letters approving credits in the three years starting 2013,
according to Tricorona, a unit of  Barclays Plc. (BARC)  The Project
Developer Forum, a lobby group whose members have received
 credits  worth about 3.7 billion euros ($4.9 billion), said
China, which doesn’t publish carbon-governance rules, halted the
approvals in August last year.  The resumption of Chinese credits is the latest blow to
prices in the 92 billion-euro market set up by the 1997  Kyoto
Protocol , which imposed greenhouse-gas targets on most developed
nations through 2012. European carbon fell to a record this year
amid a surge in the supply of credits, cutting costs for
companies from  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  to  Enel SpA (ENEL)  that are
required to buy them to protect the climate. Mercuria Energy
Trading SA, the Geneva-based energy trader, said April 24 that
China’s plans remain unclear to investors.  “Crystallizing the volume from China may help send credit
prices below their record,” said Tom Greenwood, an analyst in
London at IdeaCarbon Ltd., which rates United Nations emissions
offsets for utilities and banks. “Supply is already perceived
to be well above demand.”  All-Time Low  Certified Emission Reduction credits for December slid for
a fourth consecutive quarter through the end of March, their
longest decline on record. The UN offsets, known as CERs, have
fallen 70 percent in the past year and rose 0.8 percent today on
the ICE Future Europe exchange in London to 3.88 euros a metric
ton as of 1 p.m. local time. They traded at an all-time low of
3.27 euros on April 4. EU permits for this year were steady at
7.34 euros and are virtually unchanged this year.  CERs may drop a further 48 percent this year to 2 euros a
ton, according to Nomisma Energia Srl, a carbon researcher in
Bologna,  Italy . Barclays forecast on March 26 the credits will
remain at about 4 euros in 2012 and rise to 7 euros next year.  By using cheaper UN credits, European utilities including
 EON AG (EOAN)  and Enel can cut compliance costs in the region’s trading
system and boost profits on power sales.  China’s National Development and Reform Commission in
August implemented new procedures governing so-called letters of
approval, which are required before projects can be registered
to receive UN credits,  Gareth Phillips , chairman of the London-
based Project Developer Forum, said by phone on April 25.  EU Tightening  The lobby group  sent a letter  seeking clarity on Dec. 22 to
 Su Wei , China’s lead climate negotiator, and hasn’t received a
reply, Phillips said. Wei didn’t return three e-mails from
Bloomberg News seeking comment this week. Li Pumin, a spokesman
at the Beijing-based commission, didn’t answer three telephone
calls to his office.  “It is getting easier to receive letters of approval from
NDRC,” said Susanne Haefeli-Hestvik, technical director at
Tricorona, a Stockholm-based emission-reduction developer. The
potential import of credits underlines the need for the EU to
tighten its carbon market, she said yesterday by phone from
Beijing.  “The visibility for the UN carbon trading system is
certainly not past this year or the early part of next year,”
Marco Dunand, chief executive officer and co-founder of
Mercuria, said in an April 24 interview in Lausanne,
 Switzerland . “China may actually start developing an internal
market for CO2” next year or in 2014, he said.  Climate Negotiations  China may still decide to withhold its offset credits to
comply with its own climate targets after 2015, limiting supply
to the EU, the world’s biggest market, Pradeep Perera, an
official at the Asia Development Bank, said in January. In
September, developing nations including China,  India  and  Brazil 
said extending the UN carbon market beyond this year was
contingent on developed nation setting greenhouse-gas cuts for
the period after 2012, according to documents published after a
meeting of environment ministers in Brazil.  A decision by China, the biggest supplier of CERs, to stop
approving the creation of credits after this year might cut the
number available for European import through 2020 by about 50
percent, or 1.3 billion tons, Joergen Fenhann, a senior
scientist at the UN Environment Program’s Risoe Centre on
Energy, Climate &  Sustainable Development  in Roskilde,  Denmark ,
said April 24 in a phone interview. “It would help with
prices.”  Measuring Oversupply  The EU will allow about 1.8 billion tons of UN credits into
its market in the 13 years through 2020, including an allocation
for airlines that entered the market this year, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance. About 3.9 billion tons of credits
may compete to fill that quota, including offsets from China,
Russia and Ukraine, Risoe and New Energy Finance data show.  Eliminating the Chinese credits would cut the EU’s
oversupply of UN credits in the 13 years to 2020 by 62 percent
to 800 million tons from 2.1 billion tons, according to the
Risoe and New Energy estimates.  “The fact that China is releasing these letters of
approval suggests it could allow its developers to export
credits” beyond this year, said Abyd Karmali, head of carbon
markets for Bank of America Corp. in  London  and president of the
Climate Market Investors Association, an industry lobby group.
“This phenomenon might lead the EU to filling its quota earlier
rather than later this decade.”  Least-Developed Limit  EU lawmakers are debating how to tighten their market.
They’ve banned credits from some air-conditioning and adipic-
acid plants starting in May. Rules of the program limit access
to it only from new projects in least-developed nations after
this year.  “To help boost prices, I would like the EU to adopt a 30
percent target in 2020 and widen the access beyond least
developed nations,” Tricorona’s Susanne Haefeli-Hestvik said.
The current target is for a 20 percent cut on 1990 levels. More
ambition would be “a win-win situation” because it would
increase low-carbon investment in the EU and in developing
nations, she said.  The slow economic growth in the EU has cut the cost of
adopting the tighter target, Haefeli-Hestvik said. Still,
lawmakers may be reluctant to boost carbon prices soon because
that would increase power prices, she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net ;
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  