-- Chinese Bicycle Makers Face Threat of EU Anti-Subsidy Tariffs
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-27T05:44:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/chinese-bicycle-makers-face-threat-of-eu-anti-subsidy-tariffs.html
The European Union threatened to
impose tariffs on bicycles from  China  to counter alleged
subsidies to Chinese exporters, bolstering a new front in the
EU’s battle to protect its producers.  The EU opened a probe into whether Chinese bikemakers
receive trade-distorting  government aid , a step that may lead
the bloc to impose anti-subsidy duties against China. To date,
the EU has hit China with anti-subsidy levies only once.  The investigation will determine if bicycles from China are
“being subsidized and whether this subsidization has caused
injury to the union industry,” the European Commission, the 27-
nation EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the
 Official Journal . The commission has nine months to decide
whether to impose provisional anti-subsidy duties and EU
governments have 13 months to decide whether to apply
“definitive” levies for five years.  Europe  is stepping up scrutiny of alleged state aid to
Chinese manufacturers, raising the prospect of more European
 import duties  to protect higher-cost producers. Most of the EU’s
punitive tariffs against China punish exporters there for
selling goods in Europe below cost, a practice known as dumping.
China faces more EU anti-dumping duties than any other country.  In May 2011, the EU imposed anti-subsidy tariffs against
China for the first time by targeting imports of paper with
levies as high as 12 percent. The  five-year duties  aimed to
counter subsidies to China’s exporters of coated fine paper,
which is used for books, brochures and magazines.  Coated Steel  In February this year, the EU said it may impose anti-
subsidy duties on Chinese organic coated steel by opening a
probe that is continuing. This kind of steel is used in domestic
appliances, construction, heating and furniture, among other
things, according to  ArcelorMittal , the world’s largest
steelmaker.  The inquiry into alleged Chinese state aid to makers of
bicycles stems from a March 15 complaint by the European Bicycle
Manufacturers Association on behalf of producers that account
for more than 25 percent of the EU’s output of bikes, according
to the commission, which didn’t identify any companies.  The EU already imposes an anti-dumping duty on Chinese
bicycles -- trade protection that is 19 years old. Last month,
the bloc said it may ease the 48.5 percent duty because of
changes in the Chinese and EU markets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  