-- China Repo Rate Snaps Two-Day Rise on Speculation of Reserve Cut
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-04-27T08:51:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-repo-rate-snaps-two-day-rise-on-speculation-of-reserve-cut.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell, snapping a two-day climb, on speculation policy makers
will lower banks’ reserve requirements to meet rising cash
demand as companies prepare for tax payments.  The People’s Bank of China pumped a net 64 billion yuan
($10 billion) into the financial system this week, a fifth
weekly injection, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
China’s monetary authority pledged last week to ensure adequate
availability of cash in the financial system by using tools
including reductions in the reserve-requirement ratio.  “There’s a temporary decline in the repo rate which
doesn’t change the picture too much” as cash supply remains
tight due to corporate tax payments, said  Andre de Silva , Hong
Kong-based head of Asian rates research at HSBC Holdings Plc.
“We still expect a cut in the  reserve requirements  to
materialize in coming weeks.”  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, decreased 11 basis points,
or 0.11 percentage point, to 3.88 percent in Shanghai, according
to a weighted average compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. The rate fell six basis points this week.  The central bank has cut reserve requirements twice since
November and last reduced the proportion of cash that lenders
must set aside in February, lowering the reserve-requirement
ratio for major lenders by half a percentage point to 20.5
percent.  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, decreased two basis points to 3.25
percent in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The rate rose three basis points this week.  The yield on 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 fell one basis point to 3.54 percent, according to the
National Interbank Funding Center. The yield fell two basis
points this week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  