-- China Telecom Net Misses Estimates as Iphone Boosts Costs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T09:04:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-telecom-profit-misses-estimates-as-iphone-boosts-costs-1-.html
China Telecom Corp. (728) , the country’s
biggest fixed-line carrier, posted first-quarter profit that
missed analyst estimates as the introduction of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhone boosted costs to add subscribers at its wireless unit.  Net income fell 6.5 percent to 4.27 billion yuan ($677
million), from a restated 4.57 billion yuan a year earlier, the
Beijing-based company said in a statement today. That compares
with the 4.45 billion yuan average of four analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Larger wireless rivals  China Mobile Ltd. (941)  and  China Unicom
(Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  also reported profit that lagged analysts’
forecasts in the past week. China Telecom Chairman Wang Xiaochu
reached an agreement with Apple to offer the iPhone from March
9, becoming the nation’s second carrier to offer the device with
a subsidy after China Unicom. Those subsidies contributed to a
31 percent gain in sales costs, the company said today, without
disclosing iPhone-specific costs.  “The increase in handset subsidies is quite significant
and that is basically coming from the iPhone,” Kelvin Ho, a
Hong Kong-based analyst at Yuanta Securities Co., said in an
interview today. “If you exclude the iPhone impact, core
earnings would probably have increased 10 percent.”  Operating Expenses  Sales in the quarter ended March rose 16 percent to 67.9
billion yuan, from 58.7 billion yuan. That beat the 67.3
billion-yuan average of four  analysts’  estimates in the
Bloomberg survey.  China Telecom rose as much as 1.5 percent to HK$4.17 in
 Hong Kong  trading before the report, then pared gains to HK$4.13
at the close of trading. The  stock  has dropped 6.6 percent this
year, compared with a 13 percent climb for the benchmark  Hang
Seng Index .  The company’s total operating expenses jumped 19 percent to
61.8 billion yuan in the first quarter, the company said in the
statement. That included a 31 percent surge in selling costs to
14.2 billion yuan, it said.  “Following the launch of iPhone 4S in the period, the
group made an appropriate increase in marketing initiatives for
the profitable scale development of its mobile services,” China
Telecom’s Wang said in today’s  statement . That “is expected to
significantly enhance its long-term sustainable growth and value
creation despite the short-term pressure on its profitability,”
he said.  The company said its high-speed, third-generation network
wireless service is “entering into a phase of accelerated
growth.”  User Additions  The mobile unit added 9.36 million users during the period,
boosting China Telecom’s subscriber base to 135.8 million at the
end of March, according to the statement. It ranks third in
wireless users in the Asian nation, behind China Mobile and
China Unicom. China Telecom had 43.6 million 3G users.  Monthly average revenue per user at the mobile unit was
51.7 yuan in the quarter, “primarily stable” from the full-
year figure for 2011, the company said.  The company entered the wireless market in 2008 by
acquiring the smaller of China Unicom’s two mobile divisions in
a government-led revamp of the country’s mobile-phone industry.  China Mobile on April 20 posted a 3.5 percent gain in
profit to 27.8 billion yuan, trailing the 28.2 billion yuan
median of four estimates by analysts in a Bloomberg News survey.
China Unicom on April 25 reported  net income  rose to 1 billion
yuan, missing the 1.1 billion yuan median of six analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  