-- China’s Industrial Profits Rebound to Rise 4.5% in March
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T01:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/china-s-industrial-profits-rebound-to-rise-4-5-in-march.html
Chinese industrial companies’
 profit  rose 4.5 percent in March, rebounding from the first
January-February decline since 2009 as demand strengthened.  Company profits climbed from a year earlier to 438.9
billion yuan ($69.6 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said on its website today. Net income dropped 5.2 percent in the
first two months of 2012.  The pickup in profit growth, following gains last month in
industrial production, may reduce the urgency for the government
to ease monetary policy more aggressively to bolster demand.
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said this week that the nation “has
confidence that it will sustain steady and robust economic
growth.”  “A marked recovery will likely emerge around May in line
with the trend of economic growth, driven by demand from a rise
in export orders and start of new government-directed
infrastructure projects,”  Li Huiyong , chief economist at
Shanghai-based SWS Research Co., said before the report.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 0.2 percent at 9:42 a.m.
local time.  The world’s second-largest economy  expanded  8.1 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier after rising 8.9 percent
in the previous three months. Manufacturing may have shrunk for
a sixth month in April, a preliminary reading of the purchasing
managers’ index from HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics
indicated April 23.  Delay Cutting Ratio  Even so, authorities have held off from cutting banks’
reserve-requirement  ratio , a delay that may stem from concern
about fueling a rebound in inflation.  Industrial profit for the first quarter fell 1.3 percent
from a year earlier to 1.04 trillion yuan, the bureau said.
Companies’ combined sales climbed 14.1 percent in the quarter to
19.8 trillion yuan, compared with a rise of 13.4 percent in the
first two months, today’s data showed.  Sany Group Co., the construction-equipment maker run by
billionaire Liang Wengen, broke ground on a 10 billion-yuan
industrial park in the southern province of Guangdong to make
port and marine engineering facilities, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported on April 25.  Starting last year, the statistics bureau raised the
minimum annual sales for businesses included in the survey to 20
million yuan from 5 million yuan.  --Victoria Ruan. With assistance from Ailing Tan in  Singapore .
Editors: Scott Lanman, Stephanie Phang  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey in Tokyo at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  