-- Clinton Wears Out Pumps in Pushing ‘Smart Power’ Globally
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/clinton-wears-out-pumps-in-pushing-smart-power-globally.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said she “wore out several pairs of pumps” in the shoe-leather
diplomacy that has taken her almost a million miles around the
globe as the top U.S. diplomat.  The results are beginning to pay off, she told admirers
last night as she accepted a public service award at a dinner
held by the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in
Washington.  “Careful diplomacy” persuaded the  United Nations Security
Council , including Russia and  China , to impose “crippling
sanctions” on Iran over its nuclear program, Clinton said.
Similar diplomatic efforts “stopped a massacre” in Libya and
ousted dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , she said.  “Without America’s high-level diplomacy, cajoling, hand-
holding and arm-twisting, the coalition that protected Libyan
civilians never would have come together or stayed together,”
Clinton said.  Time and again, Clinton has pushed  women’s rights  in
dealing with crises around the globe. She criticized Egypt’s
transitional government in December for a “systematic
degradation of Egyptian women.” The treatment “dishonors the
revolution, disgraces the state and its uniform and is not
worthy of a great people.”  Last month, Clinton said any peace deal in Afghanistan that
excludes women or tries to roll back their rights is “a figment
that will not last.”  Final Year  As she completes what she has said will be her final year
in public office, Clinton, 64, has begun reflecting on her
tenure at the State Department.  “By next January, I’ll have traveled a million miles and
visited more than 100 countries,” she said. “I’ve learned a
lot about what works and what doesn’t. And today, I am more
convinced than ever that smart power is the right strategy at
the right time.”  Critics such as  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee who regularly accuses the Obama
administration of “apologizing for America,” might disagree.  Still, Clinton’s tenure has been widely regarded as
successful, reflected in her standing in public opinion polls. A
 Washington  Post-ABC News  poll  this month found 65 percent of
Americans rating her favorably, a record for that survey.  Christine Lagarde , the former French finance minister who
now heads the  International Monetary Fund , last night called
Clinton “a great public servant, a great global leader, a great
inspiration to women all over the world.”  ‘So Many Bridges’  “She has made U.S. aid more effective around the world,”
Lagarde said. “She has crossed so many borders and built so
many bridges.”  In accepting the service award, Clinton underscored two
broad themes that have dominated her tenure: an intensive
engagement with governments and civil societies and the
importance of improving the lives of women around the world.  The State Department in December created the Women in
Public Service Project to identify and train emerging female
leaders around the world. In June, the department will begin an
annual summer institute for women in a partnership with the so-
called Seven Sisters colleges, which include Barnard College in
 New York City  and Clinton’s alma mater,  Wellesley College  in
 Massachusetts .  “Women can lift up not just themselves, but their
communities and entire societies,” Clinton said. “That’s why,
over the past three years, we’ve made women a cornerstone of
American diplomacy and development.”  For all her emphasis on diplomatic engagement, Clinton said
there are times when the U.S. must continue to act alone, as it
did in the killing a year ago of former al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden.  “That day sent a clear message: America will continue to
lead,” Clinton said. “We have to. It’s who we are. It’s in our
DNA.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  