-- Clinton Backers Wait for Obama’s to Cut Checks for Super-PAC
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-27T15:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/clinton-backers-wait-for-obama-s-to-cut-checks-for-super-pac.html
Bill and  Hillary Clinton ’s network
of political donors has a message for President Barack Obama’s
longtime backers when it comes to multi-million dollar
contributions -- you first.  Through March, only 12 of Obama’s 532 top fundraisers had
donated to Priorities USA Action, a super political action
committee created to support his re-election. Priorities has
raised only about $9 million compared with a combined $80
million brought in by the two main super-PACs dedicated to
defeating Obama: American Crossroads, formed by  Karl Rove , and
Restore Our Future, a group backing presumptive Republican
presidential nominee  Mitt Romney .  The leaders of Priorities have asked former President  Bill Clinton  to tap the pool of donors who helped fund his campaign
and Hillary Clinton’s White House run. Yet Priorities lacks on
its donor list most of the core group of Chicagoans who backed
Obama’s presidential ambitions four years ago.  Penny Pritzker , a billionaire businesswoman and chairman of
Pritzker Realty Group LLC who led Obama’s fundraising efforts in
2008; James Crown, president of Henry Crown & Co., who raised
over $500,000 for the president in the last election, and Neil Bluhm, billionaire managing principal at Walton Street Capital,
are among the missing.  Pressure to ‘Ante Up’  “You’ve really got to get that lead group to write checks
if you want to generate the momentum for successful
fundraising,” said  Anthony Corrado , professor of government at
Colby College in  Maine . They need “to write the initial big
checks to get the ball rolling and put pressure on others to
ante up.”  Their absence is contributing to the difficulties facing
Priorities. Other reasons cited by people familiar with the
fundraising are philosophical objections to the new super-PAC
rules, which allow unlimited donations and sometimes keep the
names of donors secret.  Another aversion for big donors: if they give to the groups
that are required to disclose contributors, they may open
themselves and their businesses to greater scrutiny. They also
get little in return from a president whose inner circle doesn’t
place a premium on thanking his patrons. Unlike the Clintons,
Obama hasn’t rewarded major backers with perks such as White
House stays and flights on Air Force One.  Chicago Bundlers  Two of Obama’s Chicago bundlers, those fundraisers who tap
friends to drive donations to the campaign, have contributed to
Priorities USA Action -- John Rogers Jr., chairman of Ariel
Investments LLC, who gave $50,000 in January and another $50,000
this month, and media executive Fred Eychaner, who contributed
$500,000 last June.  In total, the 12 bundlers accounted for about $2.9 million
out of $9 million raised through the end of last month. The PAC
raised $2.5 million in March and had roughly $5 million cash on
hand.  By comparison, American Crossroads, an independent
Republican group formed by Rove, who was top political
strategist to former President  George W. Bush , ended March with
$24.4 million cash on hand. Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney
group, raised around $52 million through the end of March,
ending the month with about $6.5 million in the bank. Romney’s
campaign and the Republican National Committee ended the month
with a combined $43 million cash on hand.  Advertising Campaign  Other groups, including Americans for Prosperity, funded in
part by Koch Industries Inc. executives Charles and  David Koch ,
have indicated they will spend as much or more than the Rove-
backed groups. The super-PAC this week opened a $6.1 million
advertising campaign in battleground states hitting the
president on his energy policies. That’s on top of another $6
million effort in January that spotlighted the president’s ties
to bankrupt solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC.  The American Energy Alliance, a nonprofit group that
doesn’t disclose its donors, this month began a $3.6 million
television advertising campaign in eight battleground states.
The commercial claims that Obama’s energy policies have prompted
a doubling in the price at the pump.  The failure of Priorities to keep pace with the other
outside groups is cutting into Obama campaign’s financial
advantage over the Romney campaign.  Obama’s Cash Advantage  While Obama had a 10-to-1 campaign cash advantage over
Romney at the start of this month, that ratio drops to almost
two-to-one when the Republican super-PACs are added to Romney’s
arsenal, according to campaign finance reports.  At the end of March, the Obama campaign committee,
Priorities and the  Democratic National Committee  had $133.6
million in cash compared to $73.6 million held by Romney,
Crossroads, Restore and the  Republican National Committee , the
disclosure records show.  Beyond Obama’s Chicago backers, Priorities USA Action
hasn’t received donations from other top Democratic fundraisers
including Blair W. Effron, partner and co-founder of Centerview
Partners LLP and  Marc Lasry , managing partner and founder of
Avenue Capital Group.  At a fundraiser with Wall Street supporters, Obama
explained why he is urging donations to Priorities despite his
criticism of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision in  Citizens
United , which led to the creation of them. Simply put, he said
he needs the money in what polls show to be a tight race.  Clinton’s Supporters Courted  Lasry and Effron, both of whom initially supported
Clinton’s 2008 presidential bid, attended that event. Obama said
he didn’t want to run for re-election at a disadvantage to
Republicans and added that Democrats can’t unilaterally stop
accepting money from big-dollar political action committees,
according to two people at the March 1 event.  While Lasry and Effron are among the president’s active
fundraisers, they still haven’t cut checks for Priorities.  “There is some reticence on the part of some traditional
Democratic donors in investing in super-PAC activities since
it’s largely seen as a vehicle for encouraging negative campaign
advertising,” said Corrado, a campaign finance specialist.
Using the super-PAC for negative advertising about Romney would
give Obama some distance, a campaign advantage.  Now that Romney is established as the Republican nominee,
the race is tightening and it may become easier to motivate
donors, according to people familiar with the fundraising effort
who spoke on condition of anonymity.  Top Aides Reach Out  Top Obama aides, including senior White House adviser  David Plouffe  and campaign manager  Jim Messina , are also devoting more
energy to warning donors about the Republican super-PAC
advantage, they said.  “The people who have the capacity to do it will step up to
the plate,” said  Tad Devine , a Democratic strategist. “There
is the capacity to muster together large dollar donations in a
meaningful way, but I don’t think it will ever be as much as the
Republicans.”  The challenge for Democrats in mustering financial support
for super-PACs also comes down to economic interests and how far
they’re willing to go to defeat a candidate.  So far, there are more Republican donors motivated to
defeat Obama by writing large checks than there are Democratic
donors motivated to shell out millions to defeat Romney.  With the president promising to raise taxes on millionaires
and billionaires, Republican may be inspired to write a $5
million check to protect their tax loopholes; Democratic donors
who write a check for the same amount know they’re increasing
the odds their taxes will go up.  “The economic incentive that exists on the Republican side
for people to write contribution checks in their own self
interest is not there on the Democratic side,” said Devine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  