-- Cocoa Buying Slows in Europe Due to Backwardation
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-27T13:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/cocoa-buying-slows-in-europe-due-to-backwardation.html
Cocoa purchases in the European
market slowed this week as the July futures in  London  switched
to being more expensive than later-dated contracts, reducing
buyers’ incentive to stockpile, according to three traders.  The cocoa market on the NYSE Liffe exchange moved into a
so-called backwardation, with the July contract trading above
later-dated ones through March 2013. The price structure, which
may signal concerns about supply, reduces the incentive for
buyers to extend coverage and keep beans in storage.  “In principle, the backwardation in London should
encourage the selling, but if the demand is not there, buying up
the supply chain should slow,” Keith Flury, an analyst at
Rabobank International in London, said by e-mail today. “It
seems to me no one would want to stockpile anything in the
European market.”  Sales of beans from  Ghana , the world’s second-biggest
grower, were slow in  Europe  as buyers lost the incentive to
stockpile, said the traders, who have direct knowledge of the
sales. They declined to be identified because they are not
allowed to speak to the media.  Ghanaian beans from the current crop, in the European
market, cost 85 pounds ($138) to 90 pounds a metric ton more
than futures on NYSE Liffe in London, according to the traders.
That compares with a premium of 85 pounds to 110 pounds last
week. Beans from the new crop that starts in October are selling
at a premium of 90 pounds to 95 pounds, the traders said.  Sales of Ghana’s 2012-13 crop have already reached more
than 200,000 tons, London-based  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of
agriculture at Marex Spectron Group, said today. The African
country sells the cocoa at pre-set prices before the harvest
that starts in October. The market there is controlled by the
state, with the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Company responsible for
selling the beans on behalf of the Ghana Cocoa Board, the
industry regulator known as Cocobod.  Ivory Coast Beans  Beans from  Ivory Coast  were not trading in the European
market as the mid-crop, the smaller of two annual harvests that
usually starts in April, is delayed, according to the traders.  Ivory Coast “has been hit by a dry spell over past months,
which would imply a possible delay in the start of the mid-crop
harvest, due in April,” Lysu Paez, an analyst at Natixis SA in
Paris, wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday.  Cocoa for July delivery rose 0.7 percent to 1,519 pounds a
ton by 1:52 p.m. on NYSE Liffe in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Deane  at 
 jdeane3@bloomberg.net  