-- Colts Select Stanford’s Fleener, Jets Take Georgia Tech’s Hill
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2012-04-28T04:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/colts-pick-stanford-s-fleener-as-second-round-of-nfl-draft-opens.html
The  Indianapolis Colts  selected
Stanford University tight end Coby Fleener, reuniting him with
quarterback  Andrew Luck , as the second round of the National
Football League draft was held yesterday in  New York .  The  New York Jets  picked Stephen Hill, a wide receiver from
Georgia Tech, and Demario Davis, an Arkansas State linebacker.
The  New York Giants  selected wide receiver Reuben Randle and
Virginia Tech defensive back Jayron Hosley.  The draft will conclude today as rounds four through seven
are executed at Radio City Music Hall in New York.  The  St. Louis Rams  opened the round yesterday by choosing
wide receiver Brian Quick of Appalachian State and the Colts
followed by selecting Fleener, who played with Luck, the No. 1
overall pick, at Stanford.  The Jets traded up for Hill, giving up their fourth, fifth
and seventh-round selections to  Seattle  to move up four spots to
43. Hill caught 28 passes last year, averaging 29.3 yards per
catch.  “I felt really at home there,” Hill told reporters. “I’m
ready to go with coach  Rex Ryan  because I know he’s a big
winner.”  Davis is an addition to the team’s overall speed, running
40 yards in 4.5 seconds.  The Jets won’t have another pick until the sixth round when
they have three selections and two more in the seventh round.  Giants Take Randle  The New York Giants selected Louisiana State University
wide receiver Reuben Randle as the final pick in the second
round.  “Rueben is an NFL-ready receiver,” said Marc Ross, the
Giants’ director of college scouting. “What I mean by that is
this guy is strong, he can catch the ball, he’s a good route
runner, he is position savvy and he knows how to get open. To
me, those are the successful receivers in the NFL.”  In three years at LSU, Randle played in 40 games with 25
starts and caught 97 passes for 1,634 yards and 13 touchdowns.
In 2011, he helped the Tigers advance to the Bowl Championship
Series national championship game with 53 receptions for 917
yards and eight scores.  “I knew that the Giants had a lot of interest in me,”
Randle told reporters. “I got a few phone calls from the guys.
A couple of people from LSU were giving me signs that they were
interested, so I knew once they came up, they would draft me.”  The Giants took Jayron Hosley, a defensive back from
 Virginia Tech , as the 93rd overall selection in the third round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  