-- Colt Rises on Anchor Tenant for Dutch Data Center: London Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-04-27T16:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/colt-rises-to-highest-in-7-months-on-new-client-london-mover.html
Colt Group SA (COLT) , a U.K. provider of
networking and data services, rose in London trading after
securing an anchor tenant for a new  data center  in the
Netherlands and predicting that revenue will gain this year.  Colt’s new center will give the fiber-network operator a
total of 20 facilities across  Europe  from Lisbon to Copenhagen,
it said today in a statement. The company operates in 21
countries, with direct-line connectivity in 39 cities, including
London and Paris. Clients include investment manager Fidelity
and McAfee, the security-software company owned by  Intel Corp. (INTC)   The stock  advanced  2.5 percent to 106.6 pence after rising
to a seventh-month high in intraday trading. Colt has advanced
the most this year among the seven members of the  FTSE Fixed-
Line Telecommunications Index (F3TELE) , with the exception of Cable &
Wireless Worldwide Plc, which is subject to a takeover bid from
Vodafone Group Plc.  Colt’s first-quarter  revenue  increased 5.2 percent from a
year earlier to 397.3 million euros ($525.5 million), the
Luxembourg-registered company said in a separate statement
today. Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization rose 4.7 percent to 80.6 million euros.  “Our pipeline has continued to grow, particularly in
managed services,” Chief Executive Officer Rakesh Bhasin said
in the statement. “We remain confident that we will see further
growth in revenue this year.”  The Netherlands data center, between Amsterdam, Rotterdam,
Antwerp and Brussels, is due to open early next year, Colt said.
It didn’t identify the anchor tenant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at   drisser@bloomberg.net ; 