-- Coples Becomes Latest Jets Pick Booed in NFL Draft’s First Round
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2012-04-27T06:15:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/coples-becomes-latest-jets-pick-booed-in-nfl-draft-s-first-round.html
Quinton Coples joined the  New York
Jets  to a chorus of jeers from fans gathered at Radio City Music
Hall for the National Football League draft.  Coples, a 21-year-old defensive end from the University of
 North Carolina , was booed for not being Melvin Ingram, a
defensive end from the University of  South Carolina , after fans
chanted Ingram’s name while awaiting the Jets’ selection.  “They’re definitely passionate,” Coples said of the fans
at a news conference.  Jets fans have  a long history  of being disappointed with
their team’s draft choices. A video called  “NY Jets Draft
Blunders”  has more than one million hits on YouTube. Most
recently, Vernon Gholston, a defensive end from Ohio State
picked sixth in 2008, was released after three seasons.  Coples notched 17.5 sacks in his final two college seasons.
At the NFL’s pre-draft combine he ran 40 yards in 4.78 seconds
and recorded a 31.5-inch vertical leap. Analysts have criticized
him for inconsistent effort, with the NFL Network’s Mike Mayock
telling the Charlotte Observer  “buyer beware.”   Jets coach  Rex Ryan  called Coples physically gifted and
compared him with Shaun Ellis, a former  New York  defensive end
now with the  New England Patriots . Ryan said Coples would have
an easier transition to the professional ranks than Gholston,
who changed positions after joining the Jets.  Coples is the second consecutive defensive lineman the Jets
have chosen in the draft’s first round. Last year, New York got
Temple’s Muhammad Wilkerson with the 30th pick. Wilkerson, who
played on a high school team with Coples, finished the season
with 49 tackles, a safety and three sacks.  Coples and Wilkerson  “Quinton and Muhammad will both cause production,” Ryan
said. “They’re just those types of guys.”  Coples said Wilkerson had promised to “take me under his
wing” and called being picked by the Jets “a blessing from
God.”  “I knew coach Ryan had promised me that, if we got to that
pick and I was still there, he was definitely going to pick me
and I’m just thankful he is a man of his word,” Coples said in
a conference call with reporters.  The  San Diego Chargers  took Ingram two picks after the Jets
selected Coples.  “I’m going to do great for the Jets,” Coples said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net . 