-- Credit Suisse Chairman Sees Low Client Activity Persisting
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-04-27T12:26:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/credit-suisse-chairman-sees-low-client-activity-persisting.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chairman Urs Rohner said the low levels of client activity that hurt earnings
in 2011 may persist amid uncertainty about the global economy.  “The entire finance industry recognized that clients
across all businesses are avoiding risk and are barely active,”
Rohner said in a speech at today’s annual shareholder meeting in
Zurich. “We expect these low levels of client activity to
persist for some time. The economic recovery in developed
markets will remain fragile, while the trading environment will
be volatile and growth will be modest.”  Credit Suisse said this week that market conditions
worsened in April as a rebound in the first quarter helped
Switzerland’s second-biggest bank report a profit at its
investment bank after a 2011 loss. Low client activity is also
squeezing margins in  wealth management .  “Today’s rapidly evolving private-banking environment is
characterized by an increase in both client expectations
regarding products and performance and in compliance
requirements,” Rohner, 52, said. “Targeted investments and
strict cost management are essential in this context.”  The bank supports the Swiss government’s efforts to
negotiate tax treaties with other countries to resolve issues
over undeclared bank accounts, Rohner said. He said automatic
exchange of information is not “a suitable instrument to
regularize the past.”  Delivering Data  Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  in his prepared
remarks said the Zurich-based bank, which is a target of a
criminal investigation by the  U.S. Department of Justice  over
former cross-border private-banking services to American
customers, delivered some data to the U.S. authorities, as
directed by the Swiss government.  “We take this issue very seriously and are strongly
supportive of a resolution acceptable to the U.S. and
 Switzerland ,” he said.  The executives said a business reorganization will help the
bank adapt to challenges ahead. Credit Suisse decided last year
to scale down its investment bank and cut jobs to boost
profitability under stricter  capital requirements . The bank
doesn’t have “plans for any other major reductions in
headcount” beyond the 3,500 job cuts announced in 2011, Dougan,
52, said in an interview this week.  “We made significant progress in adapting the business to
the new market and regulatory environment,” Dougan said in the
speech to shareholders. “While these actions had a negative
impact on our financial results, we are confident that adapting
our business model will position us for improved profitability
and more sustainable returns.”  Compensation Challenges  Shareholders approved Credit Suisse’s 2011 compensation
report with about 68 percent in a consultative vote. Last year,
about 74 percent of shareholders gave their approval for the
compensation report.  Dougan reiterated that the bank tries to strike a balance
between paying employees “competitively” and shareholder
interests, while responding to regulatory and political
initiatives. Aziz Syriani, chairman of Credit Suisse’s
compensation committee, told shareholders that compensation
issues are not addressed in a consistent fashion across
countries and regulators.  “The key challenge in assessing performance for the
purpose of fair and balanced compensation decisions is to
distinguish between the performance component, for which
managers and employees can be held directly accountable, and the
macroeconomic factors which significantly impact overall market
conditions and the competitive environment, for which the
managers and employees are obviously not responsible,” said
Syriani.  Pay Protest  Several shareholders speaking at the meeting appealed to
the 1,752 investors gathered at the meeting to vote against the
bank’s compensation report. Rudolf Weber, an elderly shareholder
from Zurich, banged his shoe against the podium in protest
against Dougan’s pay.  Dougan’s pay fell by 55 percent to 5.82 million Swiss
francs ($6.4 million) last year from 2010, when he also received
shares valued at about 71 million francs under an incentive
program created five years earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  