-- Daimler Profit Unexpectedly Rises on Mercedes-Benz Demand
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-04-27T07:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/daimler-quarterly-earnings-unexpectedly-rise-on-mercedes-demand.html
     April 27 (Bloomberg) --  Daimler AG (DAI)  reported an unexpected
increase in first-quarter profit as record deliveries of
Mercedes-Benz cars helped offset higher spending for model
introductions and a new factory.  Earnings before interest and taxes gained 4.9 percent to
2.13 billion euros ($2.81 billion) from 2.03 billion euros a
year ago, the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said today.
Profit beat the 1.94 billion-euro average  estimate  of eight
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 9.2 percent to 27
billion euros.  Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  reiterated full-year
goals of increasing sales and matching last year’s 9 billion-
euro operating profit. The Mercedes-Benz auto unit’s first-
quarter profit slipped 2.8 percent to 1.25 billion euros on
costs for a plant in  Hungary  and new small cars.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s
Audi, which last year surpassed Mercedes-Benz as the world’s
second-largest maker of luxury cars, yesterday reported that
earnings climbed 27 percent to 1.41 billion euros.  Daimler’s profit is “slightly better than expected but
more or less in line,” said  Albrecht Denninghoff , a Sylvia
Quandt Research analyst in Frankfurt who has a “buy” rating on
the shares. “These results are not the great game-changer to
convince skeptics.”  Daimler  dropped  as much as 1.46 euros, or 3.4 percent, to
41.21 euros and was down 1.6 percent to 41.97 euros as of 9:41
a.m. in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 24 percent this
year, valuing the German company at 44.7 billion euros.  Margin Goal  Mercedes-Benz Cars has a goal of raising the operating
margin to at least 10 percent of sales next year from 9 percent
last year. The division’s first-quarter return on sales slipped
to 8.4 percent from 9.3 percent a year earlier. Zetsche, who
also leads the Mercedes-Benz Cars division, has repeatedly
called 2012 a year of transition for reaching 2013 profitability
targets.  By the end of the decade, Daimler wants to recapture its
leading position among the luxury-car makers, pursuing the same
goal as Volkswagen AG’s Audi brand.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,
which overtook Mercedes-Benz in global luxury-vehicle sales in
2005, will release quarterly earnings on May 3.  Mercedes-Benz is spending to build and introduce 10
completely new models on the market by 2015 to rejuvenate the
brand, including converting the A-Class compact into a sportier
car. The brand has a target by that year of delivering 1.6
million vehicles, a figure BMW surpassed in 2011 with its
namesake marque and British subsidiary Mini combined.  Record Deliveries  First-quarter deliveries by the Mercedes-Benz brand rose 12
percent to a record 313,902 cars and sport-utility vehicles. The
unit is targeting growth of more than 4 percent for 2012 for a
second consecutive annual record.  Daimler first-quarter net income gained 20 percent to 1.42
billion euros from 1.18 billion a year earlier.  “I do not understand the negative market reaction,” said
 Juergen Pieper , a Bankhaus Metzler analyst in Frankfurt with a
“buy” rating on the shares. “In my view, the figures were quite
good.”  The Daimler Trucks division, which includes the Mercedes-
Benz, Freightliner, Western Star and Fuso commercial-vehicle
brands, posted a 20 percent jump in sales to 107,000 vehicles in
the quarter as demand in  North America  more than made up for
declines in  Europe  and  Latin America .  The German company is forecasting that its truck sales in
2012 will exceed last year’s 425,756 vehicles. A new Indian
brand, BharatBenz, inaugurated its first plant in the city of
 Chennai  this month. Daimler is also planning to start truck
production in China later this year with joint-venture partner
 Beiqi Foton Motor Co. (600166)   Hungary Factory  Daimler opened a 800 million-euro Mercedes-Benz car factory
in late March in Kecskemet, Hungary, where it’s making the van-
like B-Class model. Workers at the site, Daimler’s first new
assembly plant in 15 years, earn one-fifth of their
counterparts’ pay at Rastatt,  Germany , the other location where
Mercedes makes the B-Class.  The German manufacturer said April 25 that it will close
its Orion municipal-bus business in North America as part of a
reorganization of coach operations in the region. Daimler will
buy a minority stake in closely held Motor Coach Industries
International Inc., which will become the U.S. and Canadian
distributor of Setra models that Daimler makes in Germany.  Daimler will spend as much as 110 million euros on the
repositioning of the bus unit, the company said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in  Frankfurt  at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  