-- DBS’s Danamon Purchase Must Await New Bank Rules, Indonesia Says
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-04-27T08:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/dbs-s-danamon-purchase-must-await-new-bank-rules-indonesia-says.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ’s $7.2
billion bid for PT Bank Danamon  Indonesia  won’t be approved
until the country sets new ownership rules and agrees with
Singapore on reciprocity in treatment of lenders.  Bank Indonesia  will process the bid for the country’s
sixth-largest lender after reaching an agreement with the
Monetary Authority of Singapore, where DBS is based, Governor
Darmin Nasution said in Jakarta today. The new rules on
ownership of financial institutions in  Southeast Asia ’s largest
economy will be finished by June at the latest, he said.  Indonesian officials have expressed reservations about
DBS’s bid, the largest by a Southeast Asian lender, since it was
announced on April 2. Deputy Finance Minister Mahendra Siregar
voiced concern last week that Danamon as a national institution
would be lost.  “We talked with the Monetary Authority of  Singapore  about
this in  Washington  and we told them that we can’t process it now
as we have to wait until the new regulation comes out,”
Nasution said. “We also talked about reciprocity. The
regulation isn’t meant to hamper foreign investors but it’s
meant for us to be more prudent.”  Karen Ngui, a Singapore-based spokeswoman at DBS, declined
to comment on Nasution’s remarks.  DBS climbed 2 percent to S$13.99 as of 4:20 p.m. in
Singapore, set for the biggest gain in a month, after posting a
16 percent gain in first-quarter profit that beat analyst
estimates. Danamon lost 3.2 percent to 6,100 rupiah, the most
since Feb. 24.  Free to Expand  “All foreign banks are free to expand their activities in
Singapore subject to the guidelines specific to the license
under which they operate,” the Monetary Authority said in an e-
mailed response to queries on April 9, adding today that its
views remain the same. Four Indonesian lenders have a presence
in the city, it added.  DBS, whose biggest shareholder is Singapore’s state-owned
Temasek Holdings Pte, offered to pay Danamon’s parent company
45.2 trillion rupiah ($4.9 billion) in new shares for its 67
percent stake and buy the remaining stock for 21.2 trillion
rupiah in cash. Temasek will increase its stake in DBS to 40.4
percent from 29.5 percent, the lender said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  