-- Deutsche Boerse Pledges Cost Control, No ‘Big’ Mergers
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-04-27T15:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/deutsche-boerse-pledges-cost-control-no-big-mergers.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , the German
exchange blocked from buying NYSE Euronext by European
regulators in February, pledged to keep costs under control as
it takes a break from entering into “big” mergers.  The company will generate savings of 20 million euros ($27
million) this year to achieve financial targets 12 months ahead
of schedule and will meet 2012 operating cost guidance of no
more than 930 million euros, Chief Financial Officer Gregor Pottmeyer told analysts on a conference call today.  The exchange said it expects its litigation over the
European Union’s rejection of its takeover of NYSE Euronext to
last as long as three years. It doesn’t plan on making “big,
international” deals in the next 18 months as regulators don’t
support them, Pottmeyer said.  “We continue to work on permanent efficiency improvements
to continue the excellent cost management track record,” he
said. “We will look opportunistically but are focused on
organic growth.”  Deutsche Boerse  reported late yesterday that first-quarter
 net income  dropped 31 percent to 146.2 million euros as trading
volumes faltered. The shares advanced 3.9 percent to 48.40 euros
at the close of trading in  Frankfurt  as it pledged to control
costs and indicated a dividend payout ratio of at least 40
percent of earnings.  NYSE Earnings  NYSE Euronext, which reports earnings next week, and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse are shifting back to expanding
current operations after the European Commission blocked their
merger. Deutsche Boerse agreed to buy its New York-based rival
in a deal valued at $9.53 billion when it was announced in
February 2011.  Deutsche Boerse is suing the EU in a move aimed at settling
the issue of how regulators define the size of the region’s
derivatives market. NYSE has broken with its former partner and
shunned the suit.  Deutsche Boerse’s operating costs rose to 248.6 million
euros in the first quarter, up from 211.8 million euros a year
earlier, and included 16.6 million euros of exceptional expenses
related to the failed merger. The exchange also reported 6.3
million euros of one-time costs related to its “efficiency
program” and job cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  