-- Dewey & LeBoeuf Approaches Deadline on $75 Million Bank Debt
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/dewey-leboeuf-approaches-deadline-on-75-million-bank-debt.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, the No. 3 law
firm adviser to banks handling merger deals, is nearing an April
30 deadline to show bank lenders it has a survival plan,
possibly including absorption by another firm or cost-cutting.  Dewey, based in New York, has lost about 72 partners in
recent months amid complaints about pay and a plan to
restructure the firm. It has drawn about $75 million of a $100
million  credit line  from banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co.
and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to a person familiar with the
firm’s finances. The banks extended an initial April 16 deadline
to come up with a plan, according to another person familiar 
with a merger proposal Dewey has presented to other law firms.  Last month, as defections mounted, Dewey restructured its
chairman’s office to include the heads of four practice groups
in addition to Chairman Steven Davis. The group includes  Martin Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich Shutran, head of the corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head
of litigation; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington
office and the legislative and public policy group.  The firm said last week that it was considering “various
paths including continuing to operate as an independent global
 law firm  and a strategic combination with another leading law
firm.” A possible partner is Greenberg Traurig LLP, which has 
held “preliminary discussions relating to lawyers at Dewey” and 
was making no commitments, Greenberg spokeswoman Jill Perry 
said.  Bonds Sold  In addition to the bank deadline, the firm also has $125
million in bonds sold to insurance companies in 2010 to
refinance previous bank loans.  The bonds, placed by JPMorgan, come due between next year
and 2020, Dewey said at the time. The firm’s revenue last year
was $782 million, compared with about $760 million in 2010,
according to the American Lawyer, which tracks law firm results.
The publication lowered its numbers for Dewey this month after
getting “newly obtained information,” it said.  Angelo Kakolyris, a Dewey spokesman, had no immediate
comment on the April 30 deadline.  A team led by partners Bienenstock and  Bruce Bennett  was
weighing a so-called pre-packaged bankruptcy, a person familiar
with the matter said. They hoped a bankruptcy plan approved in
advance by creditors could lead to a merger with another U.S.
firm, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because
he wasn’t authorized to discuss the plans publicly.  Money Back  The team also explored what might happen if the firm shut
down, the person said. Closing Dewey would make it much more
difficult for members of the firm’s limited liability
partnership and creditors to get any money back, he said.  Bienenstock, whose restructuring team represented Los
Angeles Dodgers LLC in its sale to a group including former
professional basketball player  Magic Johnson , didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment on plans for Dewey.  Dewey ranked third among legal advisers to investment banks
advising companies on mergers this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm placed 28th in American Lawyer’s
ranking of the largest 100 law firms, with 190 partners and 2011
revenue of $782 million.  Most large law firms that fail don’t come out of
bankruptcy, said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham
Greenebaum Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . Instead, they
liquidate, Bowles said, citing New York-based Finley Kumble,
which went bankrupt in 1988. The firm had almost 200 partners,
according to the American Lawyer.  Cherry-Picking  Dewey might struggle to find a merger partner because many
rivals prefer to select only the partners they want, Bowles
said. The serial defections suffered by Dewey were “a form of
cherry picking with groups of partners leaving,” he said.  While a pre-packaged bankruptcy “in theory could work,”
Dewey’s challenge would be to keep control of the firm’s assets,
which are mainly its partners, Bowles said. “The money is in
the books of business of the productive partners.”  Dewey’s defections began in March with the departure of a
group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers for Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. The firm has since lost lawyers to DLA Piper LLP,
 Reed Smith LLP , Patton Boggs LLP, Hunton & Williams LLP and
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  In Dewey’s international network, the 42-lawyer Moscow
outpost was recently assessing its options after approaches from
firms including King & Spalding LLP, said a person familiar with
negotiations. The Russian office focuses on energy and corporate
law.  Dechert in Dubai  In April, Dechert LLP took a five-partner corporate and
securities team from Dewey’s Dubai office to open in the city.  Dewey’s Rome office head, Stefano Speroni, has said the
Italian business wasn’t negotiating with anyone to leave.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and so-called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to a letter to the partners
obtained by Bloomberg News last month. Revenue for the 12 months
through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in billable
value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ; 