-- Dewey Said to Be Subject of Probe as Deadline Nears
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r ,   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-04-28T14:33:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/dewey-leboeuf-said-to-be-subject-of-criminal-probe.html
Dewey & Leboeuf LLP, the  New York 
law firm fighting to stay alive after more than 70 partners left,
is the subject of a criminal probe by state prosecutors related 
to whether managers misled partners about payments due them, a
person familiar with the matter said.  Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.’s investigation
is in a preliminary stage, said the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public. Prosecutors, tipped
by disenchanted Dewey partners, are probing whether some
attorneys were wrongly shut out of pay as the firm’s profits
shrank while others received guaranteed packages. Vance seeks to
ensure documents and other evidence is preserved ahead of any
bankruptcy, merger or dissolution, the person said.  Dewey, the No. 3 law firm adviser to banks handling merger
deals, faces an April 30 deadline to show lenders it has a
survival plan, possibly including absorption by another firm or
cost-cutting.  The law firm has lost about 72 partners in recent months
amid complaints about pay and a plan to restructure the firm. It
has drawn about $75 million of a $100 million  credit line  from
banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
according to a person familiar with the firm’s finances. The
banks extended an initial April 16 deadline to come up with a
plan, according to a person who is familiar with a merger
proposal that Dewey presented to other law firms.  Defections Mounted  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.
Angelo Kakolyris, a spokesman for Dewey, didn’t return a call
seeking comment yesterday on the probe. On April 26, he declined
to comment on the deadline.  In a copy of an internal memorandum obtained by Bloomberg
News and dated yesterday, the law firm said it’s aware of an
investigation by Vance into one Dewey attorney involved in the
firm’s management. The firm said in the memo that it has begun
an internal probe and plans to cooperate with Vance’s office.
Harvey Kurzweil and Seth Farber, as counsel to the firm, were
asked to conduct the internal investigation, the memo stated.  Last month, as defections mounted, Dewey restructured its
chairman’s office to include the heads of four practice groups
in addition to Chairman Steven Davis. The group includes  Martin Bienenstock , who runs the firm’s restructuring group; Rich Shutran, head of the corporate department;  Jeffrey Kessler , head
of litigation; and Charles Landgraf, who runs the Washington
office and the legislative and public-policy group.  ‘Various Paths’  The firm said last week that it was considering “various
paths including continuing to operate as an independent global
law firm and a strategic combination with another leading law
firm.” A possible partner is Greenberg Traurig LLP, which has
held “preliminary discussions relating to lawyers at Dewey”
and was making no commitments, Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for
Greenberg, said.  In addition to the bank deadline, the firm also has
$125 million in bonds sold to insurance companies in 2010 to
refinance previous bank loans.  The bonds, placed by New York-based JPMorgan, come due
between next year and 2020, Dewey said at the time. The firm’s
revenue last year was $782 million, compared with about
$760 million in 2010, according to the American Lawyer, a trade
magazine which tracks law firm results. The publication lowered
its numbers for Dewey this month after getting what it called
“newly obtained information.”  The Team  A team led by partners Bienenstock and  Bruce Bennett  was
weighing a so-called pre-packaged bankruptcy, one of the people
familiar with the firm said. A bankruptcy plan approved in
advance by creditors could lead to a merger with another U.S.
firm, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified because
they weren’t authorized to discuss the plans.  The team also explored what might happen if the firm shut
down, the person said. Closing Dewey would make it much more
difficult for members of the firm’s limited liability
partnership and creditors to get any money back, the person said.  Bienenstock, whose restructuring team represented Los
Angeles Dodgers LLC in its sale to a group including former
professional basketball player  Magic Johnson , didn’t respond to
calls and e-mails seeking comment on plans for Dewey.  Dewey ranked third among legal advisers to investment banks
advising companies on mergers this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The firm placed 28th in American Lawyer’s
ranking of the largest 100 law firms, with 190 partners and 2011
revenue of $782 million.  Large Law Firms  Most large law firms that fail don’t come out of bankruptcy,
said Chip Bowles, a bankruptcy lawyer with Bingham Greenebaum
Doll LLP in Louisville,  Kentucky . Instead, they liquidate, he
said, citing New York-based Finley Kumble, which went bankrupt
in 1988. The firm had almost 200 partners, according to the
American Lawyer.  Dewey might struggle to find a merger partner because many
rivals prefer to select only the partners they want, Bowles said.
The serial defections suffered by Dewey were “a form of cherry
picking with groups of partners leaving,” he said.  While a pre-packaged bankruptcy “in theory could work,”
Dewey’s challenge would be to keep control of the firm’s assets,
which are mainly its partners, Bowles said. “The money is in
the books of business of the productive partners.”  Dewey’s Defections  Dewey’s defections began in March with the departure of a
group of 12 insurance and regulatory lawyers for Willkie Farr &
Gallagher LLP. The firm has since lost lawyers to DLA Piper LLP,
 Reed Smith LLP , Patton Boggs LLP, Hunton & Williams LLP and
Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman LLP.  In Dewey’s international network, the 42-lawyer Moscow
outpost was recently assessing its options after approaches from
firms including King & Spalding LLP, said a person familiar with
the negotiations. The Russian office focuses on energy and
corporate law.  In April, Dechert LLP took a five-partner corporate and
securities team from Dewey’s Dubai office to open in the city.  Dewey’s Rome office head, Stefano Speroni, has said the
Italian business wasn’t negotiating with anyone to leave.  Revenue for the first two months of this year rose 28
percent from a year earlier, and so-called billable value
increased 13 percent, according to a letter to the partners
obtained by Bloomberg News last month. Revenue for the 12 months
through Feb. 29 grew 6 percent with an increase in billable
value of 9.7 percent, according to the letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at   lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at
   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in  Brooklyn , New York,
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 