-- Dollar Lower as U.S. Economy Expands Less Than Forecast
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-04-27T12:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/dollar-lower-as-u-s-economy-expands-less-than-forecast.html
The dollar remained lower against
the yen and the euro after a report showed the  U.S. economy  grew
less than forecast in the first quarter.  The greenback fell 0.6 percent to 80.53 yen at 8:47 a.m.
New York time. It weakened 0.2 percent to $1.3249 per euro. The
17-nation currency declined 0.3 percent to 106.71 yen.  “Even though we did have slightly weaker GDP growth,
personal consumption was fairly strong, so that offset things a
bit,” said  Kathy Lien , director of currency research at the
online trading firm GFT Forex in New York.  The yen strengthened earlier against most of its major
counterparts as investors sought safer assets even after the
Bank of Japan expanded its asset-purchase program. The euro fell
against the Japanese currency after Standard & Poor’s cut
 Spain ’s credit rating and the nation’s unemployment rate jumped,
adding to concern the region’s debt crisis is worsening.  U.S. gross domestic product, the value of all goods and
services produced in the U.S., rose at a 2.2 percent annual
rate, Commerce Department figures showed today in Washington.
That followed a 3 percent pace in the prior quarter and compared
with the 2.5 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  While the Fed refrained this week from new actions to boost
the economy, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after a two-day
meeting the central bank is “prepared to do more” if necessary.
Policy makers repeated a plan to keep borrowing costs
“exceptionally low” until at least late 2014. The key  interest
rate  has been at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  