-- ECB Clarifies Constancio Remarks About EU, IMF Role in Spain
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-27T15:31:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/ecb-clarifies-constancio-remarks-about-eu-imf-role-in-spain.html
The  European Central Bank  issued a
clarification of comments made by Vice President  Vitor Constancio  that suggested  Spain  was working with the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  on an aid program.  “There’s been an agreement between the troika and Spain,
and the program is being applied, structural reforms were
introduced, so in our view our scenario is being pursued, and we
have no reason so far to change that view,” Constancio told
reporters in Brussels today.  His comments referred to reports on the Spanish economy
published by the IMF and the EU, an ECB spokeswoman said in an
e-mailed statement.  Teams from the so-called troika of IMF, ECB and the
European Commission, the EU’s executive arm, have been deployed
to negotiate and monitor bailout programs in  Greece , Ireland and
Portugal. Officially, there is no troika team operating in
Spain.  Officials at the Spanish Economy Ministry, the commission
and the IMF didn’t immediately respond to e-mailed requests for
comment.  Constancio’s remarks came as Spain struggles to bat away
investors’ concerns that it will eventually have to seek an
international bailout to fix its troubled banks. Standard &
Poor’s yesterday cut its rating on Spain by two levels to BBB+,
citing concern that the country will need to pour more money
into its lenders.  It’s the second time in less than a year that Constancio
has had to clarify comments made to reporters. In June 2011, he
issued a statement rephrasing earlier comments about the ECB’s
stance on a Greek debt restructuring.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in London at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  