-- Economy in U.S. Probably Expanded as Consumer Spending Picked Up
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/economy-in-u-s-probably-expanded-as-consumer-spending-picked-up.html
The biggest increase in  consumer
spending  in a year probably helped extend the U.S. economic
expansion into the first quarter, economists said before a
report today.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2.5 percent annual rate after a
3 percent gain the prior three months, according to the median
forecast of 85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy,
advanced by the most since the end of 2010, the survey showed.  Job creation and income gains were enough to propel sales
at  car dealerships  and retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT) , helping make
the U.S. more resilient to weakness in overseas markets. Federal
Reserve officials this week said they expect growth to stay
“moderate,” helping explain why they adhered to a goal of
keeping borrowing costs low through 2014.  “We’re shifting gears right now toward more domestic
demand-driven growth,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York .
“Consumer spending is growing and businesses are investing. As
long as  interest rates  stay low, it should lead to a self-
reinforcing economic feedback loop.”  The Commerce Department will release the first estimate of
GDP at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged
from 1.2 percent to 3.6 percent.  Consumer Sentiment  A separate report at 9:55 a.m. may show the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan final  index  of consumer sentiment
cooled this month from a one-year high in March, economists in
the Bloomberg survey predicted.  Stocks advanced along with the economy in the first
quarter. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 12 percent,
including a 3.1 percent gain in March. That marked the strongest
three-month start to a year since a 13.5 percent advance in the
first quarter of 1998. Earnings have beaten analysts’
estimates at about 75 percent of the companies in the  S&P
500  that released results since April 10, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Jobs and the economy are a central theme in political
sparring between President Barack Obama and Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney . Obama’s  job approval  rating reached 50
percent in a Gallup Daily tracking poll for April 21-23. The
telephone survey of 1,534 adults has a margin of error of plus
or minus 3 percentage points. The 50 percent approval mark is
notable because all incumbent presidents since Dwight Eisenhower
at or above the level at the time of the election were re-
elected, according to Gallup.  The U.S. is outperforming some of the other major economies
across the globe. The U.K. economy slipped into its first
double-dip recession since the 1970s, figures from  London  showed
this week. In Japan and  Germany , gross domestic product dropped
in final three months of 2011 at 0.7 percent annual rates.  Faster Spending  Today’s Commerce Department data may also show a 2.3
percent increase in first-quarter  household consumption ,
following a 2.1 percent gain in the prior period, according to
the Bloomberg survey median.  Small businesses such as Spreadshirt Inc. are also
benefiting from the pickup in consumption. The print-on-demand
t-shirt company had a 108 percent increase in sales in the first
quarter from a year ago. The company, which is based in Leipzig,
Germany, is opening a factory in  Las Vegas  and will add 90
employees to its current U.S. staff of 150 as more of its
customers buy shirts, according to Vice President Mark Venezia.  Sales have been “remarkable,” Venezia said. “With this
growth we’re looking at expansion into other countries. We’re
investing in more equipment.”  Labor Market  A job market that’s improved since the end of 2011 is
underpinning demand. Employers increased payrolls by 635,000
from January through March, the biggest quarterly gain since the
first three months of 2006, data from the Labor Department show.
At the same time, the jobless rate has been above 8 percent for
the past three years.  Employment and the accompanying income gains may have
alleviated some of the strain from higher  fuel prices . The cost
of a gallon of gasoline at the pump jumped 65 cents from the
beginning of the year to $3.93 on March 31, which was the
highest level in 10 months, according to AAA, the largest U.S.
auto group.  “The industry and consumers have been very resilient in
the face of higher pump prices,”  Don Johnson , vice president of
U.S. sales at  General Motors Co. (GM) , said on a call with analysts
on April 3. “The steadily improving economy is playing a role
and so is pent-up demand and an improved credit market.”  Auto Sales  Cars  sold  last quarter at the fastest pace in four years,
according to industry data.  Retail purchases advanced at an average rate of 0.8 percent
in the first quarter, the fastest in a year, as stores offered
discounts and shoppers stocked up early on spring gear. Same-
store sales at Target, the second-largest U.S. discount chain,
and  Gap Inc. (GPS) , the biggest U.S. apparel chain, beat the average
estimate of analysts.  Unseasonably mild temperatures may have also spurred
activity from retail and restaurant sales to homebuilding. The
January to March period was the warmest first quarter on records
going back to 1895, according to the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration.  Rising auto and industrial demand will keep factories busy
even as manufacturing, a driver of the economic rebound, cools
to a more sustainable pace, economists said. 3M Co., the maker
of fuel system tune-up kits and Post-it Notes, reported a first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  this week forecast second-quarter
earnings that may top some analysts’ estimates, and Chief
Executive Officer  Rich Templeton  in a statement referred to the
“breadth of increased orders across geographical regions and
markets.”  European Growth  Sustained domestic demand will help make the U.S. expansion
more resilient, cushioning the nation against cooling exports
amid  Europe ’s debt crisis and a slowdown in global growth.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “expects economic growth
to remain moderate over coming quarters and then to pick up
gradually,” it said in an April 25 statement at the conclusion
of a two-day meeting in Washington. “The  unemployment rate  has
declined but remains elevated.”  A stabilization in housing, which “remains depressed”
according to the Fed’s statement this week, may have also aided
first-quarter GDP, today’s report may show.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  