-- Employment Costs in the U.S. Increased 0.4% in First Quarter
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-27T12:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/employment-costs-in-the-u-s-increased-0-4-in-first-quarter.html
Employment expenses in the U.S.
rose in the first quarter at a rate indicating wage pressures
won’t stoke inflation.  The employment cost index increased 0.4 percent, less than
forecast, and followed a revised 0.5 percent gain in the prior
quarter, Labor Department figures showed today. Economists
projected a 0.5 percent rise, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey. Wages and benefits for all workers
rose.  With more than 12 million people out of work in the U.S.,
businesses have been able to ramp up hiring without
corresponding pay gains. Weak income growth is one of the
reasons Federal Reserve policy makers said this week that
limited price pressures will allow them to keep  interest rates 
near zero until at least late 2014 to support the economy.  “Wage increases have been very benign,”  Harm Bandholz ,
chief U.S. economist at UniCredit Group in  New York , said before
the report. “The reason is, of course, the under-utilization of
resources. The  unemployment rate  has come down sizably, but
employees still do not have much bargaining power to ask for
higher wages.”  Bloomberg Survey  Projections from 50 economists ranged from increases of 0.3
percent to 0.7 percent. The employment cost index measures the
expense to companies of wages, benefits and employer-paid taxes
such as Social Security and Medicare.  Wages and salaries, which account for about 70 percent of
total employment costs, rose 0.5 percent in the first quarter,
after a 0.3 percent gain in the prior three months, today’s
report showed. Wages increased 1.7 percent from the same quarter
of 2011.  For state and local governments, workers’ wages rose 0.4
percent, following a fourth-quarter increase of 0.3 percent.  Benefit costs for all workers, which include some bonuses,
severance pay, health insurance and paid vacations, rose 0.5
percent last quarter. Compared with the same three months in
2011, the expenses were up 2.7 percent.  Among companies, total compensation costs rose 0.4 percent,
compared with a 0.5 percent gain in the prior quarter.  “On the expense side, we have a bunch of things that are
our friend,” Bob Dennis, chairman and chief executive officer
of retailer  Genesco Inc. (GCO) , said at a March 28 investor
conference. “Most obviously is labor. In an 8 percent to 9
percent unemployment environment, there is not a lot of upward
pressure on wages.”  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers on April 25 maintained their pledge to
keep the federal funds target rate near zero after more than two
years of economic growth haven’t yet brought unemployment below
8 percent.  “Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014,” the central
bankers said in a statement after a two-day meeting.  Supporting policy makers’ view that inflation will ebb, the
cost of living in the U.S. increased at a slower pace last month
as the run-up in energy prices trailed off. The consumer-price
index rose 0.3 percent in March, after climbing 0.4 percent the
prior month, Labor Department data showed April 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  