-- Tempur-Pedic Topping Sealy Shows Buyouts’ Uneven Results
-- B y   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/tempur-pedic-topping-sealy-shows-buyouts-uneven-results.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ)  and  Tempur-Pedic
International Inc. (TPX)  are mattress makers that were backed by
private-equity firms. The similarities pretty much end there.  Tempur-Pedic, founded in 1992, became the biggest mattress
company by revenue last year as sales rose 28 percent to $1.42
billion. Sealy, a 131-year-old company that’s been a household
name for decades, fell to No. 2 with sales of $1.23 billion,
little changed from 2010 and down 28 percent from the 2007 peak.  The companies’ diverging fortunes underscore the highs and
lows of private equity, an industry whose impact on the economy
has drawn scrutiny this year as  Mitt Romney , founder of Boston
buyout firm Bain Capital LLC, runs for president. The mattress
business has been a particular favorite of deal makers, with
uneven results for investors, the companies and their employees.  “A basic mattress company was a great vehicle for a basic
leveraged buyout, as long as the economy and debt markets
continued to perform,” said Colin Blaydon, director of the
Center for  Private Equity  and Entrepreneurship at  Dartmouth
College ’s Tuck School of Business in Hanover,  New Hampshire .  The top mattress makers had strong cash flows, high profit
margins and steady growth, until the 2008 financial crisis
exposed the hazards of leveraged buyouts such as  KKR & Co. (KKR) ’s
$1.5 billion purchase of Sealy. Ascendant now is an approach
called equity growth, applied in deals such as TA Associates
Inc.’s $376 million investment in Tempur-Pedic a decade ago, in
which debt is kept lower and marketing expenditures high,
according to Blaydon.  “You can’t play the old LBO game anymore,” he said. “If
firms want to attract investors, they need to be telling an
equity-growth story.”  Paying a Premium  Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-based KKR, said
the firm declined to comment.  Tempur-Pedic, based in Lexington,  Kentucky , has seen its
stock more than quadruple since its 2003 initial public
offering, even after a 28 percent pullback in the past week.  “Consumers are increasingly prepared to pay a premium for
a product that will enable them to sleep better,” Chief
Executive Officer Mark Sarvary said in a Jan. 24 conference call
with analysts, describing the company’s success selling
mattresses for as much as $7,499.  Shares of Sealy, based in Trinity,  North Carolina , have
plunged 87 percent since the company went public in 2006, two
years after being bought by KKR in a deal saddling it with $1
billion in debt.  Board Backlash  The user of coil-spring technology was slow to respond to
inroads by upstarts including Tempur-Pedic, with its foam
products, and  Select Comfort Corp. (SCSS) , featuring air-based
mattresses. Such specialty mattresses have become the industry’s
fastest-growing segment, while Sealy’s mid-priced Posturpedic
lines have become laggards as its target consumers defer
purchases.  Shareholders sent a protest message to the company’s board
by withholding more than 30 percent of the votes for three of
the nine directors at last week’s annual meeting in Greensboro,
North Carolina, according to election results released this week
by Sealy. More than 20 percent declined to support three
additional board members, the company’s  8-K filing  shows.  The results indicate some investors sided with New York-
based H Partners Management LLC, the 15 percent stakeholder that
had vowed before the meeting to withhold votes for a board of
directors it said was dominated by KKR, which owns 45 percent of
the shares.  ‘Significant Progress’  The hedge fund, which started accumulating the stock in
early 2011, cast attention on Sealy’s governance in a March 11
letter to the board, saying KKR had “overloaded the company
with debt and taken a short-term approach; made numerous
strategic errors, resulting in a 50 percent earnings decline;
repeatedly made poor CEO selections.”  KKR said in December that Lawrence J. Rogers, the second
CEO on its ownership watch, would retire this year and it would
conduct a search for a new leader. A successor hasn’t been
named.  “The board is working with a world-class recruiter and
making significant progress,” Gemma Hart, a spokeswoman at
Brunswick Group for Sealy, said of the CEO search announced in
December.  H Partners has urged Sealy to seek outside candidates for
the job, and, in its letter, criticized the “excess operational
influence” of KKR’s in-house consulting unit, led by Dean Nelson, also a Sealy board member.  ‘We Love Input’  Before the meeting, shareholder FPR Partners LLC told the
head of the board’s corporate governance committee that KKR
should have a “very different” role as an investor at a public
company. Altai Capital Management LP, another investor, asked
the firm to bring H Partners into the CEO search.  “We love input, but we have limited ability to respond for
regulatory reasons,” Sealy Chairman  Paul Norris  said in an
interview after the April 18 meeting at the Grandover resort.  The 15-minute meeting was attended by two representatives
from H Partners and a former Sealy employee who owns shares,
according to Hart, as board members and executives outnumbered
investors. Bloomberg News was barred.  Executives told attendees the company has been
“transparent and consistent with good governance practices,”
said Norris, former chairman and CEO of W.R. Grace & Co. and now
a senior adviser to KKR.  KKR’s challenge with Sealy shows how firms that paid up for
companies as buyouts began peaking in the mid-2000s have been
left to operate them through down times with the burden of high
debt, said Lenny Ajzenman, a senior vice president at Moody’s
Investors Service in  New York .  Smaller Workforce  Sealy’s market value has shrunk to $205 million, compared
with Tempur-Pedic’s $3.83 billion, as the stock fell from the
$16 initial offering price to yesterday’s close of $2.03 in New
York trading.  Sealy’s workforce has been cut by 33 percent to 4,276
employees as of Nov. 27, when the last fiscal year ended, from
6,399 in 2004, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Tempur-
Pedic’s staff has grown by 38 percent to 1,800 as of Dec. 31,
the data show.  “Many PE firms had to hold on to companies long beyond
their expectations, because there was no available exit or their
operating performance was pressured,” Ajzenman said. “With
consumer companies in particular, you have to come out with new
products and keep up with customers.”  Sealy and another big competitor, Simmons Bedding Co., have
been flipped several times since the 1980s. Since 1986, Simmons
has traded hands from Wesray Capital Corp. to Merrill Lynch
Capital Partners to Investcorp to Fenway Partners LLC to Thomas
H. Lee Partners LP. It came out of Chapter 11 in 2010 owned by
Ares Management LLC and the  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan .  Increasingly Competitive  Since 1989, Sealy has gone from Gibbons, Green & van
Amerongen Ltd. to Clipper Group to Zell/Chillmark Fund LP to
Bain to KKR. Bain led a group buying Sealy in 1997 for $833
million and made more than five times its original equity
investment upon selling the company seven years later to KKR,
the investment firm led by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts .  “It was a good, steady business, with growth in the mid-
to-high single digits, kind of tracking GDP, and margins that
were reasonable,” said Andy McLane, a senior adviser at Boston-
based  TA Associates , which led the 83 percent purchase of
Tempur-Pedic for $376 million. “But then the industry got more
competitive.”  Touting Comfort  Tempur-Pedic, whose chairman is McLane, helped change the
competitive landscape. Its foam mattresses were developed by a
Danish manufacturer and brought to the U.S. by entrepreneur
Bobby Trussell, who touted the comfort of the new design over
the traditional coil-and-spring construction used by Sealy and
others. Its selling point, a much better night’s sleep,
resonated with consumers who could afford its mattresses.  The company, whose sales were a quarter the size of Sealy’s
a decade ago, was able to forcefully market that message and
develop new products because its cash flow wasn’t as encumbered
by loan payments.  TA Associates used $198 million of debt in acquiring
Tempur-Pedic, McLane said, or about 3.6 times the company’s 2002
 earnings  before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The firm no longer owns
any Tempur-Pedic stock, according to filings.  Sealy’s debt swelled to $1.05 billion after the 2004
purchase, or 5.8 times Ebitda, Bloomberg’s data show.  Highly leveraged deals often go south, Ajzenman said.
Thomas H. Lee bought Simmons in 2004, less than four months
before the Sealy buyout, and put it into Chapter 11 bankruptcy
in 2009 with $1 billion of debt.  Interest Expense  Sealy paid $88 million of interest expense in 2011 on its
debt, which is now about $780 million, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Tempur-Pedic posted net interest earnings
of $11.9 million, as its income from interest-bearing
investments exceeded its loan payment costs.  Tempur-Pedic spent $1 billion on advertising in the past
decade, executives said in a February  investor presentation . The
current ad budget represents 13 percent of its sales, a ratio
similar to those of Nike Inc. and Procter & Gamble Co.,
according to the presentation.  Sealy didn’t run a national ad campaign from 1998 until
2008, according to a regulatory filing. The company puts $120
million to $150 million a year into cooperative advertising,
contributing to mattress retailers’ local ad purchases. Those
stores typically promote their sales more than the virtues of
Sealy products.  Tempur-Pedic has been joined by other non-coil
manufacturers to chip away at Sealy. The high-end mattress
market sputtered when the U.S. fell into recession in December
2007, before resuming robust growth in the past two years.  ‘Refraining From Replacing’  Sealy, which derives about half its sales from  mid-priced
mattresses  that retail for $599 to $999, still awaits a
resurgence. Its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization declined 31 percent last year, to $107.8
million.  “The mid-priced category has been hurt by consumers
refraining from replacing mattresses,” said Norris, the
chairman.  In the past two years, Sealy has moved to bolster its
pricier product lines. It produced its first foam mattress,
Embody, in 2010. It created a specialty division to develop new-
technology product lines in 2011. Posturpedic Optimum, a line of
gel-based mattresses, arrives in stores this month.  Sealy expects Optimum to increase sales from specialty
mattresses and help it gain ground in a segment where the
company is seeking to lift market share to 20 percent from 9
percent, Rogers said in an interview.  Fees, Dividends  The decline in value of KKR’s Sealy holdings has been
partly offset by fees and dividends collected during its
ownership. The firm and its limited partners were paid a $25
million transaction fee for the 2004 deal with Bain, according
to  the offering document . When Sealy went public, KKR and its
investors were paid a $125 million special dividend from the
proceeds. The document also disclosed an $11 million payment
from Sealy to KKR and its investors to terminate a management-
services contract. The firm and its clients have since collected
$9.7 million from Sealy for consulting and other services,
according to H Partners.  Sealy must consider CEO candidates from other industries, H
Partners said in last month’s letter. Rogers, who has worked at
Sealy for 33 years, was picked in 2008 to follow David McIlquham, an 18-year company veteran and holdover from Bain’s
ownership retained by KKR.  Outside CEOs  H Partners cited two competitors that chose outside leaders
-- Tempur-Pedic’s Sarvary previously ran clothing retailer J.
Crew Group Inc. and the North America division of Campbell Soup
Co., and Select Comfort CEO William McLaughlin is a former
PepsiCo Inc. executive.  “These managers’ strong consumer and general management
backgrounds have enabled Tempur-Pedic and Select Comfort to
succeed,” H Partners wrote.  Sealy’s revenue rose 2.2 percent in its fiscal first
quarter ended Feb. 26, reversing a year-over-year decline in the
previous three months. Industry sales are forecast to advance
7.2 percent this year, according to the International Sleep
Products Association trade group in Alexandria, Virginia.  Revenue will grow faster as product lines such as Optimum
are rolled out, Rogers said in an analysts’ conference call last
month. National advertising spending is likely to be unchanged
from 2011, he said, with Sealy conserving cash to keep a strong
balance sheet.  “They ultimately need to grow to deleverage,” Ajzenman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Helyar in Atlanta at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  