-- Eni Profit Rises 13% on Higher Oil Prices, Recovered Output
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-04-27T14:23:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/eni-profit-rises-13-on-higher-oil-prices-recovered-production.html
Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Italy ’s largest oil
producer, reported a 13 percent gain in first-quarter profit
after crude prices increased and Libyan output recovered.  Adjusted net income rose to 2.48 billion euros ($3.27
billion) from 2.22 billion euros a year earlier, the Rome-based
company said today in a statement. That beat the 2.28 billion-
euro average estimate of 14 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “Eni expects to see Libyan production increase and reach
plateau levels in the second half of 2012,” said  Oswald Clint ,
an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in London. “Refining
and chemicals again were loss making and the outlook remains
poor for both businesses.”  Eni, the largest oil producer in  Africa , began to restore
output in  Libya  in September after shutting down operations
during last year’s civil war that ended with the ousting of
Muammar Qaddafi. It pumped 280,000 barrels of oil equivalent a
day in the North African nation before the start of the unrest.  Daily output was little changed at 1.67 million barrels a
day in the first quarter from 1.68 million barrels a year
earlier. Operating profit for marketing almost tripled to 839
million euros after Eni renegotiated gas prices with OAO
Gazprom.  “Recovery perspectives look poor in the gas sector with
gas demand expected to be soft due to slow economic activity”
Eni said. “Refining margins are anticipated to remain at
unprofitable levels due to high costs of oil supplies, sluggish
demand and excess capacity.”  Galp Sale  Last month, Eni agreed to sell part of its 3.5 billion-euro
stake in  Galp Energia SGPS SA (GALP) ,  Portugal ’s largest oil producer.
Scaroni has said the company doesn’t want to be a minority
investor in Galp in the long term.  The Italian company doesn’t plan to sell any more Galp
shares right now because “today’s market price doesn’t meet”
its “minimal expectations,” Chief Financial Officer Alessandro Bernini told investors on a conference call. Galp shares rose as
much as 5.1 percent in Lisbon trading.  Eni and OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer, this
week agreed to explore for oil and gas in the Barents and Black
seas and work together on projects outside Russia.  Russian Venture  Last week, Eni started pumping hydrocarbons for the first
time in Russia. Its $9.2 billion western Siberian gas venture
with OAO Gazprom Neft and OAO Novatek is part of a plan to boost
overall production by more than 3 percent a year through 2015.  Eni is preparing to sell its 5.9 billion-euro stake in  Snam
SpA (SRG) , owner of Italy’s natural-gas distribution network, after
the government ordered the spinoff to increase competition and
reduce consumer prices.  It’s “too early” to talk about the details of the
spinoff, said Bernini as he pledged to retain most of the
proceeds from any future transaction to maintain liquidity.  Eni has also been exploring the waters off  Mozambique ,
where it made the biggest gas discovery in the company’s
history. Its total resource base in the East African nation now
exceeds 40 trillion cubic feet. Eni has said it may sell some of
its holdings next year after carrying out further appraisal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in  London  at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  