-- Equity Fund Redemptions in April Are Largest in 17 Years
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-04-27T17:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/equity-fund-redemptions-in-april-are-largest-in-17-years.html
Global investors this month pulled
the most money from stock funds in any April in at least 17
years amid escalating concerns that  Europe ’s economy is
faltering.  Equity funds had net redemptions of $18.6 billion through
April 25, according to data from EPFR Global, a research firm
based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The April withdrawals were
the largest since at least 1996, the first year for which
comparable data is available.  “April has thrown up a lot of things that could change the
equation, especially in Europe,”  Cameron Brandt , director of
research at EPFR, said in a telephone interview.  Investors have been shifting money from stock funds since
the global credit crisis sent the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
down 38 percent in 2008. In the U.S., money continues to flow to
bond funds even as the benchmark index of big stocks has more
than doubled since reaching a 12-year low in March 2009.  Mutual funds that buy U.S. stocks had withdrawals of $121
billion in the 12 months ending March 31, according to Chicago-
based  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  which tracks the fund industry. Bond
funds attracted $191 billion over the same stretch.  Europe’s economy is struggling as spending cuts across the
region undermine hiring and  consumer confidence . Standard &
Poor’s cut  Spain ’s credit rating two steps yesterday on concern
the country will have to provide further fiscal support to the
banking industry. A contraction of the U.K.’s economy in the
first quarter put that country into its first double-dip
recession since the 1970s.  U.S. Equity Category  Funds that buy U.S. stocks had $17 billion in redemptions
through April 25, the most of any category, according to EPFR,
which follows investment industry trends globally. Funds that
buy western European stocks had withdrawals of $8.3 billion.
Stock funds that invest in companies worldwide attracted $10
billion in the same period.  As a percentage of industry assets, April 2000 had the
highest withdrawals on record, according to EPFR’s Brandt.  The research firm tracks traditional and alternative funds
with $16 trillion in assets, including vehicles for institutions
as well as individuals.  Data collected by the  Investment Company Institute , a
Washington-based trade group, also show equity-fund redemptions.
Investors pulled $8.7 billion from domestic stock funds in the
week ended April 18 and added $8.7 billion to non-U.S. equity
funds and $5.3 billion to bond funds, ICI data show.  Investors, according to a Wall Street adage, typically sell
in May, said Brian Leung, a global equity strategist at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch in  New York .  “This year they decided to sell early,” Leung said in a
telephone interview.  Leung’s team, in a note published yesterday, wrote that it
will be hard to generate a rally in global stocks “in the
absence of big, strong inflows to equity funds.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  