-- Mercuria’s CEO Says Energy Trader in Talks to Sell 20%
-- B y   L a n a n h   N g u y e n
-- 2012-04-27T10:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/mercuria-s-ceo-says-energy-trader-in-talks-to-sell-20-.html
Mercuria Energy Trading SA, a
closely held commodities trader, is in talks with potential
investors to sell a stake of much as 20 percent of the company,
its chief executive officer said.  The eight-year-old company, based in Geneva, is seeking to
expand and buy assets as it enters metals and agriculture
markets and enlarges operations in  China  and the U.K. Mercuria
is in early discussions with several parties and hopes to reach
a deal within 18 months, Marco Dunand, who is also a co-founder,
said, declining to give a valuation.  “We could envisage an investor coming in for a 10 to 20
percent stake in Mercuria if we could find the right partner,”
Dunand said in an April 24 interview in Lausanne,  Switzerland .
“But this is in the context of long-term partnership, as
opposed to a fast investment turning into an initial public
offering.”  The move comes almost a year after Mercuria’s competitor
 Glencore International AG (GLEN) , based in Baar, Switzerland, sold $10
billion of stock in an initial public offering to help fund
acquisitions and expansion. That contrasts with Vitol Group, the
biggest independent oil trader, which has no plans to sell
shares,  Ian Taylor , the company’s chief executive, said in an
interview at the company’s  London  office last month. Out of
Vitol’s 2,810 employees, 360 are partners in the company.  Energy trading companies buy and sell crude and refined
fuels, trying to profit from short-term fluctuations in prices
and mismatches in supply and demand. Owning  oil fields  or
 storage tanks  give traders an asset base from which to sell.  Shanghai Office  Mercuria’s 2011 revenue was projected to rise to $75
billion, from $50 billion in 2010, the company said in
September. It hasn’t made public its final figures for last
year. Glencore’s revenue last year was $186 billion.  Dunand said the company will open a 15-person office in
Shanghai next month to start trading base metals and  iron ore .
Mercuria also trades emission credits in China, where it runs a
carbon market joint venture with  Datang Corporation Renewable
Power Co. (1798)   “We think China is a natural place to be because that’s
where a lot of the demand is,” he said. “Trading inside China
is reasonably complex because you need to have a good
understanding of the licensing, to respect their law” and be
able to trade the local currency, he said.  The company hired two metals traders in London to add to
the 15 staff there, who are active in U.K. natural gas and power
markets.  Volatile Oil Prices  Mercuria will also enter the agricultural  commodities
markets , after it appointed a head trader in  Singapore  and two
others in Geneva, Dunand said, declining to identify the people.  Mercuria, which has about 950 employees globally, was
founded in 2004 by Dunand and Daniel Jaeggi.  Near-term  oil prices  will probably stay volatile and “may
whip between contango and backwardation,” Jaeggi, who is also
Mercuria’s head of trading, said at the Financial Times Global
Commodities Summit on April 24 in Lausanne. A market is in
contango when contracts closest to expiry cost less than later
dated deliveries, while backwardation is the opposite structure.  Long-term crude prices are stabilizing at about $90 to $95
a barrel while prices for immediate delivery will be more
volatile, Jaeggi said. North Sea Brent crude traded at about
$119 a barrel today, after rising 11 percent this year.  Vesta Terminals  Mercuria may agree a partnership deal for its midstream
unit,  Vesta , which owns oil terminals and biofuel plants, before
the end of the year.  Rising shale crude production in the U.S. is spurring the
need for more infrastructure and transportation, another
potential area where Mercuria may buy assets, after it divested
exploration and production interests in North Dakota’s Bakken
area, Dunand said.  New production at the company’s coal mine in  Indonesia  will
start in the next few weeks, he said. Mercuria sold its stake in
 Optimum Coal Holdings Ltd. (OPT) , a South African company, to
Glencore. Such asset sales are “increasing cash available for
opportunities,” Dunand said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lananh Nguyen in London at 
 lnguyen35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  