-- Esparza Gives Sinister Edge To ‘Leap of Faith’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/esparza-gives-sinister-edge-to-leap-of-faith-review.html
Broadway loves a con man,
especially one who sees the light.  The flim-flam fraternity that includes Professor Harold
Hill, Nathan  Detroit  and Bill Starbuck has a new pledge in the
person of the Rev. Jonas Nightingale, the holy-rolling fleece
artist currently headlining a tent meeting at the St. James
Theatre under the banner “Leap of Faith.”  Played with dangerous, dark magnetism by Raul Esparza,
Jonas has been banned in several states when he and his company
of gospel-singing grifters tumble into the dusty town of
Sweetwater,  Kansas .  The choir hasn’t been paid in weeks and the bus needs a new
transmission.  Sweetwater seems ripe for the picking, though the pickings
will surely be slim.  The townspeople are out of work, it hasn’t rained in months
and everyone has given up hope except the crippled son of the
widowed lady sheriff, Marla McGowan.  “ Leap of Faith ,” based on the 1992 movie that starred
 Steve Martin  and Debra Winger, has been riding that broken-down
bus to Broadway for nearly a decade.  It still needs a new transmission.  The songs are by composer  Alan Menken  and lyricist Glenn
Slater, the team that also faked gospel music with “Sister
Act.”  Sinister Minister  Here we go again with oversize black singers belting their
numbers to the rafters. (It’s particularly unfortunate that this
character in “Leap” is named Ida Mae, while that character in
“Ghost” is called Oda Mae).  Ida, Oda, let’s call the whole thing off.  Esparza works hard and the sinister edge he brings to Jonas
helps cut through the blandness.  He’s ably supported by Jessica Phillips as his love
interest, Kendra Kassebaum as his sister and chief accomplice,
Leslie Odom Jr. as Jonas’s gently fierce nemesis and Talon
Ackerman, a young charmer who plays McGowan’s determined son.  Christopher Ashley’s staging is serviceable, as are Sergio
Trujillo’s dances. But there’s not a moment’s surprise in the
show. Certainly not in the ending, which didn’t make a believer
of me and won’t, I reckon, make one of you.  At the St. James Theatre, 246 W. 44th St. Information: +1-
212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating: **  ‘Don’t Dress’  The Broadway season officially closes with “Don’t Dress
for Dinner,” which would win the  Tony Award  for Worst Title, if
such a prize were in the offing.  This mild farce by Marc Camoletti (“Boeing Boeing”) is
set in the countryside near Paris, where the philandering
Bernard (Adam James) is expecting his girlfriend for a weekend
tryst, while his wife Jacqueline (Patricia Kalember) visits her
mother.  Jacqueline’s plans fall through, setting in motion comic
machinery that should have our heads spinning with the arrival
of Bernard’s best friend and Jacqueline’s lover, Robert (Ben
Daniels); Bernard’s bouncy paramour Suzanne (Jennifer Tilly);
and Suzette (Spencer Kayden), a cook hired for the festivities,
but compelled to pretend she is at least a half-dozen other
characters before the weekend has run its course.  Va-Va-Voom  John Lee Beatty’s imposing set, with the requisite surfeit
of doors, is also a key character. The women are especially
enjoyable: Tilly as the va-va-voom girlfriend, Kalember as the
stolidly hypocritical yet touching wife, and especially Kayden,
who morphs from plain Jane to slinky lynx before our delighted
eyes (with a lip-smacking assist from costumier William Ivey Long).  Director John Tillinger manages the traffic smoothly. The
whole thing would seem harmlessly diverting were it not for the
last-minute appearance of Suzette’s hulking husband (David Aron
Damane), an appalling stereotype that very nearly drained the
evening of its modest pleasures.  Through June 17 at the American Airlines Theatre, 227 W.
42nd St. Information: +1-212-719-1300;
 http://www.roundabouttheatre.org . Rating: **  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  film  reviews and  Lewis
Lapham .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 