-- MetLife Sidesteps Capital Questions as CEO Can’t Read Fed
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-06-19T18:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/metlife-avoids-capital-questions-as-ceo-awaits-clarity-.html
(Corrects CEO quote in fourth paragraph of story originally
published April 27 to add word “when.”)  MetLife Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Steven Kandarian , whose attempts to buy back stock were
blocked twice by the  Federal Reserve , sidestepped questions
about returning capital to investors, saying he couldn’t read
regulators.  “I just don’t see any upside in me making predictions,”
Kandarian, 60, said today on a conference call in response to a
question from  Jimmy Bhullar , an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
“I’m afraid that’s not the clarity you’d like to have and
frankly it’s not the clarity I’d like to give you, but that is
the environment we’re living in.”  Kandarian is seeking to reduce federal oversight of
MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer, by selling the firm’s
deposits business and removing its status as a  bank holding
company . That process was expected to be concluded by the end of
June, New York-based  MetLife (MET)  said at least twice last month.
Today, Kandarian was asked by  John Nadel , an analyst with Sterne
Agee & Leach Inc., if he could reiterate that prediction.  “We can’t say with certainty when the regulatory approval
will be forthcoming,” said Kandarian, who held the call to
discuss MetLife’s first-quarter results. “We don’t have clarity
on our side to be specific about timing.”  MetLife  fell  16 cents, or 0.4 percent, to $36.31 at 4:15
p.m. in New York. MetLife said yesterday its first-quarter net
loss was $144 million, compared with a preliminary forecast of a
$64 million loss that the insurer gave last week.  “On the Docket’  Kandarian, who was promoted to CEO 12 months ago, guided
MetLife to a 30 percent stock decline last year as the Fed
prevented him from using the company’s capital to buy back
shares and increase the dividend.  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , the
No. 2 U.S. life insurer, fell 15 percent in 2011 as it boosted
its dividend and repurchased stock.  Newark , New Jersey-based
Prudential isn’t a bank holding company.  “Fed approval to deregister could take longer than
investors are currently assuming,” Bhullar said of MetLife
today in a research report. That could lead to reductions in
earnings-per-share estimates and hurt “investor sentiment,” he
said.  MetLife’s banking exit requires involvement from the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and the Fed, Kandarian said.
“FDIC has to put it on the docket,” Kandarian said. “They
meet once a month. I’m sure they have a lot of matters before
them.”  Operating Profit Rises  David Barr , an FDIC spokesman, and  Jack Gutt , a spokesman
for the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York , declined to comment.  MetLife Bank had $25.5 billion of assets as of Dec. 31,
according to the FDIC. In December, the insurer agreed to sell
about $7.5 billion of its approximately $11 billion in deposits
to General Electric Co. MetLife said in January it would unwind
its mortgage origination unit. The firm said yesterday it would
halt sales of reverse mortgages, the home-equity loans marketed
to residential property owners age 62 or older.  MetLife is considering acquisitions in the U.S. and beyond,
Kandarian said. The company would probably face competition from
other potential buyers if it pursued deals in  Asia , he said.  “Properties of that nature are going to get more attention
and potentially more aggressive bidding,” Kandarian said.
“Other markets and other properties that perhaps are not
growing as rapidly, might shift more toward the buyer side.”  MetLife swung to a loss in the first quarter, compared with
net income of $877 million a year earlier, on a derivative loss
of almost $2 billion tied to changes in its credit spreads and
hedges against interest rate declines. Operating  profit , which
excludes some investment results, increased to $1.46 billion, or
$1.37 per share, from $1.32 billion, or $1.23, a year earlier,
matching the preliminary results the company reported last week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 Ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  