-- Europe Stocks Cap Longest Stretch of Gains Since March 16
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-04-27T15:59:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/european-stock-futures-drop-after-spain-s-rating-is-cut.html
European stocks  climbed for a
fourth day, for the longest stretch of gains in six weeks, as
results from Vinci SA to  Sandvik AB (SAND)  topped estimates,
outweighing slower-than-forecast U.S. economic growth.  Vinci,  Europe ’s biggest builder, gained 4.2 percent and
Sandvik, the world’s largest maker of metal-cutting tools,
surged 12 percent. Nobel Biocare Holding AG, the second-biggest
producer of dental implants, jumped 4.2 percent after its first-
quarter profit rose.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.8 percent to 259.12
at the close in  London , for a weekly increase of 0.5 percent.
The gauge has rallied 6 percent this year as the  European
Central Bank  boosted long-term loans to the region’s financial
institutions and U.S. economic reports exceeded forecasts.  “Whilst I’m cautious on the outlook for markets, partly
because of valuation, partly because of the economics, the
positive news in the short-term from earnings is enough to
encourage buyers,” said Gerard Lane, an equity strategist at
Shore Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,  England .  Companies in the Stoxx 600 that have reported results since
April 10 have exceeded analysts’ per-share profit estimates by
6.9 percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  National benchmark indexes gained in 14 of the 18 western-
European markets.  France ’s CAC 40 rose 1.1 percent, while the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 increased 0.5 percent and  Germany ’s DAX added
0.9 percent.  U.S. Economy  In the U.S., gross domestic product rose at a 2.2 percent
annual rate in the first quarter, Commerce Department figures
showed. That followed a 3 percent pace in the prior quarter and
compared with the 2.5 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. Household purchases, which account for
about 70 percent of the economy, increased 2.9 percent,
exceeding projections.  Spain ’s sovereign credit rating was cut for the second time
this year by  Standard & Poor’s  on concern that the country will
have to provide further fiscal support to banks as the economy
contracts. S&P lowered the long-term grade to BBB+ from A, with
a negative outlook and reduced the short-term rating to A-2 from
A-1.  Meanwhile, Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said he
expects foreign investors and real-estate funds to help offload
property assets from banks’ balance sheets and ruled out using
public funds to shore up the industry.  Italy sold 5.95 billion euros ($7.9 billion) of bonds
today, less than the maximum for the auction, as the country
paid 60 basis points more than a month ago to sell 10-year debt.  Japanese Stimulus  The  Bank of Japan  expanded its plan for government-bond
purchases by 10 trillion yen ($124 billion) after the world’s
third-largest economy showed signs of slowing and lawmakers
pressed for more aggressive steps. The BOJ will boost its asset-
purchase fund to 40 trillion yen by June 2013, compared with the
previous target of 30 trillion yen by year-end.  Vinci (DG)  jumped 4.2 percent to 35.56 euros after posting a 6
percent increase in the first-quarter sales, beating estimates.
The construction company reported a revenue of 8.1 billion
euros, compared with analysts’ forecasts for 7.64 billion euros.  CRH Plc (CRH) , the world’s second-biggest building-materials
maker, gained 3.9 percent to 1,268 pence. The stock was raised
to overweight, the equivalent of buy, from underweight at
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  French builder  Eiffage SA (FGR)  climbed 5.3 percent to 25.25
euros as construction shares rose.  Hochtief AG (HOT) , Germany’s
largest builder, gained 4.1 percent to 44.44 euros. A gauge of
construction shares was the best performer of the 19  industry
groups  on the Stoxx 600.  Sandvik Surges  Sandvik advanced 12 percent to 104 kronor, the biggest jump
since November 2008. The company reported first-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates and posted record order intake as
demand grew in the Americas.  Nobel Biocare, the world’s second-biggest dental implant
maker, rose 4.2 percent to 11.15 Swiss francs after it said
first-quarter profit rose 9.5 percent on growth in  North America 
as Europe continued to falter along with the economy.  Logitech International SA rallied 7.3 percent to 8.88
francs. Exane raised the stock to outperform, the equivalent of
buy, from neutral. The company yesterday rose the most since
2007 as fourth-quarter net income increased ninefold.  Software AG (SOW) , Germany’s second-largest software maker, added
6.2 percent to 26.23 euros. The stock was raised to buy from
hold at MM Warburg & Co. The company reported first-quarter
earnings before interest and tax of 54.8 million euros, in line
with estimates for 54.7 million euros.  Man Group Soars  Man Group (EMG)  surged 14 percent to 107 pence, snapping a two-
day selloff. Societe Generale SA upgraded the world’s largest
publicly traded hedge-fund manager to buy from hold after a 35
percent drop in the shares in recent weeks. UBS AG earlier in
the week said the company is a “likely” takeover target.  Wacker Chemie AG, the German provider of polysilicon,
jumped 10.2 percent to 63.25 euros. The German provider of
polysilicon said first-quarter volumes rose almost 50 percent as
demand rebounded, enabling all its production facilities to run
at full capacity.  DNB ASA shares fell 11 percent to 62.8 kroner, the most
since March 2009. Norway’s biggest bank said it will struggle to
meet its financial goals as profit fell because of a hedging
loss and rising costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  