-- European Stocks Gain for Second Week on Company Earnings
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/european-stocks-gain-for-second-week-on-company-earnings.html
European stocks  advanced for a
second week after better-than-forecast earnings outweighed
disappointing economic data and political uncertainty in  France 
and the Netherlands.  Volkswagen AG led gains in automakers after first-quarter
profit beat analysts’ estimates. Vinci SA paced building
companies higher as sales topped forecasts. Cable & Wireless
Worldwide Plc gained after agreeing to be bought by Vodafone
Group Plc while Rhoen Klinikum surged after receiving an
unsolicited takeover offer.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 0.5 percent to 259.12
this week, extending last week’s 1.7 percent rally. The measure
has still lost 4.9 percent since its 2012 high in March amid
renewed concerns that the euro-area is yet to contain its
sovereign-debt crisis.  “Equity investors are relying on supportive earnings and
valuation considerations to offset top-down challenges that have
intensified,” Ian Williams, a London-based strategist at Peel
Hunt, wrote in a note to clients. “The euro-zone’s economic
weaknesses are prompting a political backlash, the U.S. recovery
is losing pace and the U.K. is back in recession.”  National benchmark indexes rose in 12 of the 18 western
European markets. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  gained 0.1 percent,
 Germany ’s DAX added 0.8 percent and France’s CAC 40 climbed 2.4
percent.  Spain ’s IBEX 35 Index advanced 1.5 percent even as
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its  credit rating  for the country for the
second time this year.  The Stoxx 600 sank to a three-month low on April 23 after
reports showed manufacturing contracted in the euro area and
 China , while French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  became the first
incumbent since 1958 not to win the opening round of the
nation’s election. Dutch Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  also offered
to resign after struggling to clinch an austerity deal.  U.K. Recession  Reports this week also showed that the U.K. slipped into
its first double-dip recession since the 1970s, while an index
of executive and consumer sentiment in the euro area fell to
92.8 from a revised 94.5 in March. In the U.S., the economy
expanded less than forecast in the first quarter while more
Americans than estimated filed for jobless claims last week.  More than 100 of the Stoxx 600’s companies posted results
this week. Of those that have reported since April 10, earnings
topped estimates by 6.9 percent on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Volkswagen surged 13 percent after the world’s second-
largest carmaker reported first-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates on higher earnings at the Audi luxury brand.
Operating profit rose 10 percent.  Porsche SE jumped 10 percent. Daimler AG gained 2.1 percent
as the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars reported an unexpected
increase in first-quarter profit.  French tiremaker Michelin & Cie. increased 9.2 percent. The
company reported a 5.1 percent rise in first-quarter revenue on
higher demand for specialty tires to equip earthmovers, aircraft
and agricultural vehicles.  Vinci Rises  Vinci gained 5.1 percent after the company posted a 6
percent increase in the first-quarter sales, beating analysts’
estimates.  Royal Philips Electronics NV, the world’s biggest light-
bulb maker, Electrolux AB, the world’s second-largest appliance
maker rallied 6.5 percent and 5.7 percent respectively as they
reported first-quarter earnings that topped analyst estimates.  Cable & Wireless  jumped 12 percent after Vodafone agreed to
buy the U.K. company for 1.04 billion pounds ($1.7 billion).  Rhoen Klinikum surged 47 percent after Fresenius SE offered
to buy the German hospital operator for 3.1 billion euros ($4.1
billion).  Man Group Plc jumped 12 percent amid speculation the
world’s largest traded hedge fund manager may be a takeover
target. Societe Generale SA said while a takeover bid could not
be “ruled out,” it is unlikely to happen in the near term
given the uncertain market backdrop for a potential buyer. UBS
AG earlier in the week said the company was a “likely”
takeover target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  