-- Ex-News Corp. Tabloid Reporter Is Cleared in Harassment Case
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-27T15:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/ex-news-corp-tabloid-reporter-is-cleared-in-harassment-case-2-.html
Neville Thurlbeck, the former chief
reporter at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s now-defunct News of the World tabloid,
was cleared by prosecutors over allegations he threatened a
witness in a police investigation of phone hacking.  Thurlbeck, 50, won’t be charged for posting on his blog the
home address of a News Corp. executive who is helping run the
company’s internal probe of the scandal, the  Crown Prosecution
Service  said in a statement today. Thurlbeck remains a suspect
in the underlying phone-hacking investigation.  “Given that the journalist in question remains on bail for
further offenses we do not intend to give any further
information at this point,” the CPS said.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  testified yesterday at a
media-ethics inquiry triggered by the scandal that he and the
company were the victims of a cover up. The review was ordered
by U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  to help quell public
outrage after the extent of the paper’s illegal behavior became
clear. About 45 people have been arrested in three probes
stemming from the scandal.  In a post on his blog today, Thurlbeck thanked his
“family, friends and colleagues in the industry for their
unswerving loyalty, support and continued belief in me.”  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s U.K. unit,
News International, declined to comment.  Police Files  The Met gave evidence to the CPS on April 18 with details
on possible criminal charges against as many as 11 people,
including up to four journalists, a police officer and six
members of the public. Rebekah Brooks, the former chief
executive officer of News International, was arrested last year
in probes of phone hacking and bribery. She was detained again
in March on claims of conspiring to pervert the course of
justice in relation to the probe.  Thurlbeck had been arrested in March for alleged witness
intimidation and harassment, prompting the journalist to call
the claims “far-fetched” in another blog post. In April 2011,
he was the first person arrested after police opened a new
investigation into phone-hacking by News Corp. journalists.  Thurlbeck started the blog in December and uses it to
comment on coverage of the inquiries into phone hacking and U.K.
media ethics. His old employer, the News of the World tabloid,
was shut in July after reporters were found to have hacked into
a murdered teenager’s voice mail for stories.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  