-- Mexico Attorney General Starts Probe of Wal-Mart Executives
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-27T00:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/mexico-starts-criminal-probe-of-wal-mart-executives-correct-.html
Mexico started a preliminary
criminal investigation of  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  executives
following allegations they bribed local officials to speed up
the awarding of permits for new stores, the Attorney General’s
Office said.  The authorities will investigate acts of corruption “where
public officials are presumed to have participated,” the
attorney general said in a statement today.  Wal-Mart is facing government scrutiny on both sides of the
border after the  New York Times (NYT)  reported on April 21 that the
company had spent more than $24 million in the early 2000s to
bribe local officials in Mexico. The U.S.  Justice Department 
announced on April 23 that it was investigating the payments.  Wal-Mart’s Mexico unit “will cooperate with Mexican
authorities without any reservations,” and has set up a
“process to guarantee that authorities’ requests to review
permits and licenses granted to the company for its stores’
operations in Mexico are completely satisfied,” according to an
e-mailed statement from the company today.  The Mexican attorney general’s probe comes a day after the
country’s anti-corruption agency said it would examine
government officials who allegedly accepted the bribes. That
agency would only be able to level “administrative fines”
while the attorney general is conducting a criminal
investigation, said Moises Ciriaco, a press official for
Mexico’s anti-corruption agency, known as the Ministry of Public
Administration.  Not Speedy  “These investigations are not as speedy or fluid as one
would want,” said Ciriaco. “There are investigations that take
three or four years, and there are others that are considered
fast, and they take six or eight months.”  Mexico City also said yesterday it would investigate Wal-
Mart and local officials for evidence of “administrative
irregularities or inappropriate conduct.”  President  Felipe Calderon  said yesterday in Houston that he
was “very indignant” by Wal-Mart’s alleged corruption.  Wal-Mart de Mexico’s expansion in  Latin America ’s second-
biggest economy saw it increase the number of its outlets in
Latin America’s second-biggest economy by 33 percent to 771
locations from 2002 to 2005, according to information on the
company’s website. The company now has 2,709 stores.  Mexico’s Senate passed a bill yesterday that would fine
individuals or companies caught illegally obtaining contracts
from public companies, the Senate said in an e-mailed statement.
The bill still needs to be signed into law by Calderon.  “The accusations recently appearing in the media are just
that, accusations,” Wal-Mart said in its statement. “Despite
that, we take them very seriously.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in  Mexico  City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  