-- Mexican Peso Rallies as Bonds Fall After Target Rate Held Steady
-- B y   B e n   B a i n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-04-27T22:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/mexican-peso-rallies-as-bonds-stocks-fall-after-rate-unchanged.html
Mexico ’s peso rose the most in
almost four months and bonds dropped after policy makers left
the target lending rate unchanged at a record low 4.5 percent
for a 26th straight time.  The currency extended its 2012 gain against the dollar to
7.5 percent, the best performance among the 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg. Local-currency bonds slumped
as traders who had bet that the central bank would lower
borrowing costs were disappointed. Stocks rose after earlier
falling on the rate decision.  The peso appreciated 1.6 percent to 12.9678 per  U.S. dollar 
at 4 p.m. in Mexico City, the biggest daily gain since Jan. 3.
The peso gained 1 percent this week.  “The market started to take out the implicit cuts it had
priced in,” Alejandro Padilla, a debt strategist at Grupo
Financiero Banorte-Ixe, said in a telephone interview from
Mexico City. Stocks fell initially because “you’re not getting
greater monetary policy stimulus,” he said.  Mexico’s peso had tumbled 3.8 percent in the four-week
period leading up to today’s decision, the worst performance
among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Peso Backdrop  “Currency above 13 is a factor” in the rate decision,
said Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  New York , who had forecast policy makers would
remain on hold. “With the backdrop of a weaker foreign-exchange
rate, they might have felt a little less comfortable about
easing monetary policy.”  Yields on fixed-rate bonds due in December 2013 tumbled 36
basis points, or 0.36 percentage point, in the four weeks
through yesterday on speculation policy makers would cut the
target lending rate. The yield increased 14 basis points today
to 4.58 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was
the debt’s biggest one day slump since March 2, 2009.  The benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican stocks slipped as
much as 0.7 percent following the rate decision before rising
0.3 percent to 39,324.14 at close.  Rate-futures before the decision indicated central bank
Governor Agustin Carstens would trim rates for the first time
since July 2009.  Since that time,  Brazil  has raised or lowered its benchmark
rate 15 times and the  Federal Reserve  has carried out two rounds
of debt purchases known as quantitative easing, pumping cash
into the  U.S. economy .  Slowing Inflation  Mexico’s annual inflation slowed to 3.73 percent in March
from 3.87 percent in the previous month and 4.05 percent in
January, the national statistics institute reported April 9. The
target range for inflation is 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  “The balance of risks to inflation has remained similar to
what was reported in the last monetary policy decision,” the
central bank said in its statement accompanying the decision.
There is “an improvement in the balance of risks for economic
growth,” the bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  