-- Mexico Leaves Rates on Hold as Outlook for Growth Improves
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-04-27T16:25:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/mexico-leaves-key-rate-on-hold-as-inflation-and-growth-surprise.html
Mexico ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record low for the 26th
consecutive meeting after inflation slowed and the outlook for
economic growth improved.  The bank’s board, led by Governor Agustin Carstens, left
the overnight lending rate at a record low of 4.5 percent today,
matching the forecast of 19 of 22 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Two analysts forecast a quarter-point cut and one
expected a half-point reduction.  Economic growth accelerated to 6.24 percent in February and
the prospects for future expansion have improved as exports pick
up, the central bank said in notes accompanying today’s
decision. If the economy keeps improving, pressures on the
 consumer price index  will eventually increase, said Sergio Luna,
an economist at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s Banamex unit  “The space to cut rates has closed,” said Luna, who had
forecast a half-point rate cut for today. “The economy will
have a good growth rate, inflation will remain within a
reasonable range, without major problems.” Luna said Banamex
now forecasts a rate increase for the first quarter of 2013.  The peso rose 1.3 percent to 12.9991 to the dollar as of
11:13 a.m. in Mexico City. Yields on fixed-rate bonds due
December 2013 tumbled 36 basis points, or 0.36 percentage point,
in the four weeks through yesterday on speculation policy makers
would cut the target lending rate. The yield jumped 10 basis
points today to 4.54 percent as of 11:20 a.m., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Balance of Risks  “The balance of risks to inflation have remained similar
to what was reported in the last monetary policy decision,” the
central bank said, while there is “an improvement in the
balance of risks for economic growth.”  The bank, known as Banxico, reiterated previous statements
that it may reduce interest rates if monetary policy in
developed and developing nations remains loose. It also said the
bank remained alert to any pick-up in inflation.  Consumer prices dropped 0.42 percent in early April,
beating 13 out of 14 economists’ estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Annual inflation slowed to 3.73 percent in March from
3.87 percent the month before and 4.05 percent in January. The
target range for inflation is 3 percent, plus or minus one
percentage point.  “Inflation expectations are pretty well anchored,” said
Deputy Finance Minister  Gerardo Rodriguez  in an April 20
interview in  Washington . “There are no existent imminent types
of concerns on the inflationary front,” he said.  Faster Growth  Mexico posted a preliminary trade surplus of $1.6 billion
for March, topping all 10 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg
survey, the statistics agency reported today.  February’s economic growth also exceeded all 15 forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey and was the fastest pace since August
2010.  Gross domestic product will expand about 3.5 percent this
year after it grew 3.9 percent in 2011, according to government
forecasts. Growth may have “positive surprises” after recent
production and consumption data beat forecasts, Finance Minister
Jose Antonio Meade said in a March 8 interview.  Still, mixed economic news out of the U.S. means growth may
not continue at the current pace, said  Alonso Cervera , a Mexico
City-based economist at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  who forecasts the
central bank will begin to cut rates by June. The U.S. accounts
for 80 percent of Mexico’s exports.  The  U.S. economy  expanded less than forecast in the first
quarter as the biggest gain in  consumer spending  in more than a
year failed to overcome a diminished contribution from business
inventories.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate after a
3 percent pace a quarter earlier, Commerce Department figures
showed today in Washington. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 2.5 percent rise.  “Banxico appears generally comfortable with inflation in
the economy,” Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at
Standard Chartered Bank in  New York , said in a research note
today. The central bank’s notes on the decision were “broadly
balanced.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 