-- Family of Martha Stewart, Greenberg Lawyer Start New Firm
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/family-of-martha-stewart-greenberg-lawyer-start-new-firm.html
The family of the late  Robert Morvillo , the New York white-collar defense attorney who
represented  Martha Stewart  and  Hank Greenberg , is planning to
start a new  law firm  next month in his honor.  The firm, Morvillo LLP, will be run by Morvillo’s sons
 Scott , Greg and  Robert  and his brother Richard from offices in
Washington and New York.  “We decided it would be a great homage to dad,” Greg
Morvillo said April 26 in a telephone interview.  The late Morvillo, a name partner at  Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer , represented Stewart in her
obstruction of justice case and Greenberg, former head of
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , in a New York state
investigation. Morvillo died in December at the age of 73.  Morvillo LLP will defend clients involved in white-collar
crime accusations and internal investigations,  Greg Morvillo 
said. Richard Morvillo, a partner at Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP in
Washington, specializes in securities law enforcement cases and
private securities litigation.  Three Morvillo brothers who worked at Morvillo Abramowitz
as counsel will continue using space at the firm until new
offices are found, Richard Morvillo said in an e-mail. The new
firm has already hired several associates and one counsel with
“more to come,” Richard Morvillo said.  Morvillo Sons  Another attorney son,  Christopher , will stay at his current
firm, Clifford Chance LLP.  Morvillo’s name will be shared with Morvillo Abramowitz,
 Elkan Abramowitz , a partner there, said in an interview.  “The firm has a reputation that has been built up over the
years,” Abramowitz said. “We have no plans to change it.”  “We’re excited about the fact they’re continuing to
practice together and wish them the best of luck,” Abramowitz
said of the Morvillo brothers. “When Bob was alive it’s what he
wanted for them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  