-- Finding Retail Talent in Twitter Era Adds to Challenges
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-04-27T14:47:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/finding-retail-talent-in-twitter-era-adds-to-challenges.html
The Web has made a retailer’s job
hard enough with smarter shoppers skipping trips to the mall to
order from home. Add hiring executives who understand this world
to the list of challenges.  “I’m trying to find that needle in the haystack,” Paul Blum, chief executive officer of clothier  Kenneth Cole
Productions Inc. (KCP) , told a Bloomberg panel in New York this week.
“Searches used to be relatively easy compared to the way they
are today.”  He’s not alone. Executives from  New York & Co. (NWY)  to Gilt
Groupe Inc. said they struggled to find managers who can crunch
numbers, collaborate with colleagues and communicate with
customers. Hiring the right candidates will increasingly matter
because online sales are driving growth in the U.S.: Web retail
sales jumped 15 percent during last year’s holiday season, more
than three times faster than revenue from stores.  Blum and Greg Scott, CEO of apparel chain New York & Co.,
recently hired a chief marketing officer and head of e-commerce,
and it wasn’t easy, they said. As more consumers shift to the
Web for buying, browsing and talking about what they are buying
and browsing, retailers need executives who can adapt quickly to
shifting technologies while also having backgrounds in
traditional sales and marketing.  “There’s not a CEO on the planet who can tell you what
their business is going to be doing five years from now, how and
what amount -- it’s complete fantasy,” said Anthony Choe, a
partner at private equity firm Brentwood Associates Inc. that
has invested in retailers such as  Zumiez Inc. (ZUMZ)   Finding Purple Squirrels  Online retailer Gilt Groupe has taken to calling the search
for candidates of such acumen and experience as “finding a
purple squirrel” because they don’t exist, said Les Berglass,
chairman of an eponymous executive search firm whose clients
include Gilt and New York & Co.  In the past five years, placing talent with e-commerce
skills has grown from 2 percent to more than 20 percent of his
business, Berglass said. Those executives who understand the
intersection of technology and consumer culture and can
translate that into a marketing strategy are becoming more
valuable to their companies than their predecessors, he said.  “What you’re seeing in the industry is the rise of the
marketing leader to the general management, and eventually the
CEO spots over the next five years,” said Berglass, who pointed
to  Michael Francis  moving from chief marketing officer at  Target
Corp. (TGT)  to president of Plano, Texas-based J.C. Penney Co. last
year as a sign of their increasing stature.  Rethinking Everything  Retail e-commerce spending jumped 15 percent to $37.2
billion during the November-December period, according to
Reston, Virginia-based  ComScore Inc. (SCOR)  Meanwhile, retailers’
holiday sales gained 4.1 percent to $471.5 billion, the
Washington-based  National Retail Federation   said  in January.  The growing influence of the Web on retail has companies
rethinking more than recruiting. It’s changing everything from
 customer service  to board membership to organizational charts,
the executives said.  Because shopping behavior is evolving so quickly, once-
bureaucratic operations need to be more flexible, with fewer
management levels, they said.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, released about two years ago, provides
an example of how quickly technology can change shopping and how
essential it is to have executives in place who embrace change,
Choe said.  Disrupting Innovation  “You almost have to look for the mindset as opposed to the
skill” because, with so much innovation disrupting retail, no
one can be prepared for what’s coming next, he said.  Retailers have to be more nimble because consumers are
becoming better shoppers, with access to more information than
ever before. They compare prices at will and can influence their
peers’ opinions for better or worse on Facebook, Twitter and
 Yelp. (YELP)   Wall Street  should take more notice of a company’s prowess
with data as well, Blum said.  “The valuation of a company is so much based on the
quality of their database, and I don’t think a lot of valuation
people even look at that,” he said.  The other side of rising consumer power and influence is
that retailers also have more information to cater to them, said
Scott, the New York & Co. CEO. Last year the New York-based
company realized a pair of jeans with more curves and a bell-
bottom cut had great online reviews even though it wasn’t a top
seller. The company is responding by adding more pants of this
kind.  “The demand for this was so strong that we believe now
it’s a much bigger business than it could have been,” said
Scott, who receives daily updates on what people are saying
about the retailer on social media. “That would not have
happened without seeing a response both on Facebook and
online.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  