-- Ford Profit Falls on Losses in International Operations
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-04-27T20:07:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/ford-profit-fall-as-losses-in-international-operations.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , seeking a second
investment-grade  credit rating , said first-quarter profit fell
45 percent on a higher tax rate and as overseas losses ate into
growing income from North America.  Ford posted its 12th consecutive profitable quarter, with
net income of $1.4 billion, or 35 cents a share, down from $2.55
billion, or 61 cents, a year earlier. Excluding one-time items,
profit was 39 cents a share, beating the 35-cent average
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Ford fell 2.3
percent to $11.60 at the close in  New York .  While fuel-efficient models championed by Chief Executive
Officer  Alan Mulally  won over U.S. consumers, the automaker
faced weak demand in Europe, supply disruptions in  Asia  and
rising competition in  South America . Ford will earn higher
profits in the year’s second half, as North American operations
provide a “big bounce” to results, said Chief Financial
Officer Bob Shanks.  “We expect that engine that’s pulling the company ahead to
keep on pushing us along,” Shanks said of North American
operations, which earned pretax profit of $2.1 billion, the most
since at least 2000, and an operating margin of 11.5 percent.  While overseas pretax losses of $190 million were less than
the company expected, Europe will remain a challenge, Shanks
said. Ford lost $149 million in Europe, where the industrywide
first-quarter sales rate fell to 14.1 million.  “This past quarter was the lowest industry we’ve seen in
Europe since 1995,” Shanks told analysts on a conference call
today. “This is like looking at the U.S. back in ‘08, ‘09. It’s
a really, really tough environment.’’  Lump-Sum Offers  Ford said it’s offering lump-sum pension payments to about
90,000 U.S. salaried retirees and former employees. The
voluntary program is aimed at lowering the company’s $74 billion
global pension liability, which was underfunded by $15.4 billion
at the end of last year. Ford said it’s the first such program
offered by any U.S. company.  Ford’s net income fell largely because its  tax rate  rose to
33 percent from 8.5 percent a year ago because the automaker
removed from its books a valuation allowance it held against
deferred tax assets, Shanks said. That tax-rate change reduced
Ford’s net income by $612 million, he said.  ‘‘The valuation allowance last year was shielding the
normal tax expenses you would have expected,” Shanks told
reporters at Ford’s Dearborn,  Michigan , headquarters.  On a pretax operating basis, Ford earned $2.3 billion in
the first quarter, down 19 percent from $2.8 billion a year ago.  European Slowdown  “Europe is a problem for everybody; there’s just too much
overcapacity there and in Asia, Ford just doesn’t have much of a
presence,” said  Mirko Mikelic , a senior  money manager  at Fifth
Third Asset Management in Grand Rapids, Michigan, which recently
purchased five-year Ford notes. “Expectations are high for Ford
to continue to grow.”  Ford avoided larger losses in  Europe  because it “held the
line” on prices there, reducing them by only $30 million in the
quarter, Shanks said.  Ford said it won’t meet U.S. market share or quality
targets this year. There have been problems with the
transmissions in the Focus and Fiesta small cars, Shanks said.  Ford will lose share this year in the U.S. because it
hadn’t anticipated how fast sales would take off and doesn’t
have enough factory capacity, Shanks said.  ‘Can’t Keep Up’  “We just simply can’t keep up with what we think will be
the  consumer demand ,” Shanks said. “We’re going to be able to
essentially sell everything that we build this year, but it’s
just not going to be enough to maintain or to grow the share.”  Ford’s larger second-half profit will be driven by
increases in factory production as it starts making the Ford
Fusion sedan in Michigan, Focus compact in  China  and Ranger
pickup in  Thailand , Shanks said. New models such as the Fusion
and Escape SUV will boost the prices consumers pay for Ford
vehicles, he said.  “We don’t have a lot of new product in this particular
quarter,” Shanks said in an interview. “In the second half of
the year, you’ll start to see substantially strong pricing not
only in  North America , but in the other business units, that
will give us a healthy year-over-year improvement.”  U.S. consumers paid an average of $31,995 for the company’s
models in the first quarter, up 1.4 percent from a year ago,
while down slightly from last year’s fourth quarter, according
to online auto researcher Edmunds.com. Ford’s average prices are
up 26 percent from 2002 and 11 percent from 2007.  European Challenge  Ford’s loss in Europe compared with a profit of $293
million a year earlier. Ford said its sales fell  7.3 percent  to
325,400 cars and trucks in the top 19 European markets in the
first quarter.  “Europe is a challenge right now,” said Stephen Brown,
auto analyst at  Fitch Ratings . “But the majority of their
revenue still comes out of North America, and North America is
looking very good right now.”  Ford’s U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 8.5 percent, to
537,822 vehicles in the first quarter, trailing the U.S.
industrywide 13 percent increase for the quarter, according to
Autodata Corp. of Woodcliff Lake,  New Jersey .  Ford reported a pretax profit from South America of $54
million for the quarter, down from $210 million a year earlier.  In Asia-Pacific and  Africa , Ford reported a pretax
operating loss of $95 million, compared with a $33 million
profit last year. Ford said its sales in China fell 14 percent
in the first quarter. The Ford brand had 2 percent of the
Chinese passenger car market during the period, said researcher
LMC Automotive.  Investment Grade  Ford has “world-class management and great cash flows,”
Sarat Sethi, a New York-based portfolio manager at Douglas C.
Lane & Associates, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Inside Track.”  Sethi’s company wants to keep buying Ford shares, he said.
“Absolutely,” he said.  Fitch on April 24 became the first major ratings company to
raise Ford, the second-largest U.S. automaker, to investment
grade after the automaker slid to so-called junk status in 2005.  First-quarter sales fell 2.1 percent to $32.4 billion. The
average estimate for total first-quarter revenue was $31.3
billion, according to the average of 11 estimates.  Ford built 677,000 cars and trucks in North America in the
first quarter, up 20,000 vehicles from last year. In the second
quarter, Ford said it plans to build 730,000 cars and trucks in
North America, an increase of 20,000. Ford said it’s cutting
second-quarter production in Europe by 15 percent and in South
America by 12 percent.  No Production Disruption  Vehicle output won’t be disrupted by a worldwide shortage
of a specialty resin used in brake and fuel-system components,
Shanks said.  Mulally has revamped Ford’s lineup with a focus on fuel
economy. The subcompact Fiesta gets as much as 40 miles (64
kilometers) per gallon in highway driving, while the F-150
pickup offers two fuel-efficient V-6 engines that account for
more than half of sales. Until the 2011 model year, Ford hadn’t
used a V-6 engine in the F-150 since 2008.  That leaves Ford better able to cope with rising fuel
prices than in 2008, when an overdependence on trucks and sport-
utility vehicles tanked the automaker’s sales and led to record
losses, Brown said.  Automotive debt, which excludes Ford Motor Credit, was
$13.7 billion on March 31, an increase from $13.1 billion on
Dec. 31, the company said.  Logo Collateral  Ford has more debt than rivals because it borrowed $23.4
billion in late 2006, after Mulally arrived from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
before credit markets froze. That enabled the automaker to avoid
the bailouts and bankruptcies that befell the predecessors of
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and Chrysler Group LLC in 2009. Ford earned
$29.5 billion in the last three years after $30.1 billion in
losses from 2006 through 2008.  To obtain the 2006 financing, Ford had to pledge major
assets, including its blue oval logo, as collateral. If  Standard
& Poor’s  or Moody’s Investors Service joins Fitch in assigning
Ford an investment-grade rating, Ford will regain control of the
assets.  The automaker has repaid more than $21 billion of the money
borrowed in 2006, Mulally said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday.”  Ford resumed paying a dividend last month following a five-
year  suspension . The automaker March 14 declared a second-
quarter dividend of 5 cents a share payable June 1 to
shareholders of record on May 2.  Ford shares are up 7.8 percent this year after falling 36
percent last year.  “I’m surprised that the equity is languishing given that
they’re doing pretty well and they’re talking about raising the
dividend,” said Mikelic. “The market is still taking a  wait-
and-see attitude .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Detroit at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  