-- Forint Caps Biggest Weekly Jump in 3 Months on IMF Talks Consent
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-04-27T14:27:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/forint-heads-for-biggest-weekly-jump-in-3-months-on-imf-talks.html
The forint had the biggest weekly
jump in three months as Hungary prepared to start talks on a
bailout from the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union.  Hungary’s currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 287.46 per
euro by 4:05 p.m. in Budapest, extending its weekly gain to 3.3
percent, the best performance since the five days through Jan.
27. The forint appreciated 2.4 percent so far in April. The
government’s benchmark 10-year bonds snapped three days of
gains, lifting yields 1 basis point, or 0.01 percentage point,
to 8.078 percent, compared with 9.017 percent on April 23.  Hungary received the European Commission’s approval to
start negotiations on April 25, five months after Prime Minister
 Viktor Orban  requested the aid, following wrangling on laws
affecting the independence of the central bank and other
institutions. Hungary wants “fast” talks with the IMF on a
 credit line  to be used as a safety net in case of bond market
turmoil in Europe, Orban said today on state-run MR1-Kossuth
radio.  “We also view recent developments regarding the IMF/EU
talks as strongly positive,” Zoltan Arokszallasi, an analyst at
Erste Group Bank AG in Budapest, wrote in a research report
today. “However, not all problems have been resolved.”  The IMF is ready to start negotiations with Hungary “as
soon as adequate steps are taken to ensure central-bank
independence,” according to a statement released in  Washington 
late yesterday.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt with
credit-default swaps was little changed at 525 basis points,
compared with 599 basis points on April 23, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark BUX stock  index  fell 0.4
percent.  “We do not downplay the efforts that the Hungarian
government has taken,”  Daniel Hewitt , a London-based economist
at  Barclays Capital , and colleagues wrote in a research report
today. “Formal loan negotiations could still be protracted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  