-- Geithner Says Europe Has Made Progress in Taming Crisis
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-27T10:41:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/geithner-says-europe-has-made-progress-in-taming-crisis.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the U.S. is in a stronger position to weather
Europe’s debt crisis and its economic relationship with China
has improved.  “We are in a much better position to withstand any
pressures from Europe,” Geithner said in an interview with
Marketplace, according to a transcript published today. “But
again it’s important to acknowledge that Europe is a big part of
the global economy so if they were to mismanage their crisis it
would have a material impact on growth.”  Geithner said European authorities have made progress in
recent months in bringing calm to financial markets. The
 European Central Bank  has flooded the banking system with funds,
while Group of 20 governments committed more than $430 billion
in fresh capital to the  International Monetary Fund  on April 20
to help it to protect the world economy against debt turmoil in
Europe.  On China, Geithner said the U.S. relationship with the
nation has improved. He was speaking ahead of his visit there
next week to meet with officials of the world’s second-largest
economy. The U.S. will raise longstanding issues from the value
of China’s currency to intellectual property protection.  “Their  exchange rate  has appreciated against the dollar,
that’s pretty good for us, that means the competitive playing
field is moving in our direction,” Geithner said. “There’s
better protection for intellectual property rights in China,
less piracy against U.S. firms, and we’ve been very aggressive
in using protections in U.S. trade law to challenge unfair trade
practices in  China .”  -- Editors: Fergal O’Brien, Andrew Atkinson  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  