-- Genworth’s Joelson Steps Down From Running $75 Billion Portfolio
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-04-27T21:25:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/genworth-s-joelson-steps-down-from-running-75-billion-portfolio.html
Genworth Financial Inc. (GNW) , the
mortgage guarantor and life insurer, said Chief Investment
Officer Ronald Joelson is leaving the company to join
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co. in the same role.  Daniel Sheehan was promoted to oversee the $75 billion
portfolio at Genworth, the Richmond, Virginia-based insurer said
yesterday in a statement.  Joelson, who previously managed investments for Prudential
Financial Inc., will oversee a $164 billion general account
portfolio for Milwaukee-based Northwestern Mutual, which is
owned by its policyholders. Genworth, a publicly traded company,
has posted the second-biggest  decline  in the 24-company  KBW
Insurance Index (KIX)  in the last 12 months as claims costs from the
mortgage-guaranty unit weighed on the firm.  “Ron is a seasoned investment professional,” Skip Poliner, Northwestern Mutual’s president and chief risk officer,
said in a separate statement. “His experience as a successful
chief investment officer in two global insurance companies
brings valuable knowledge and skills.”  Genworth has slipped 51 percent in the last year, compared
with an 8.4 percent decline in the KBW index. MGIC Investment
Corp., which competes with Genworth selling mortgage insurance
sales, has fallen 58 percent.  Northwestern Mutual, which was started in 1857, has the
highest  credit rating  from Moody’s Investors Service. Genworth,
which was spun off from General Electric Co. in 2005, has a Baa3
grade, the rating firm’s lowest investment-grade score.  Chief Executive Officer Michael Fraizer hired Joelson in
November 2008 from JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s asset-management
business. Joelson worked at Prudential from 1984 to 2007,
according to a Genworth statement at the time of his hiring.  Harvard Graduate  Sheehan was previously senior vice president of asset
management, Genworth said. He graduated from  Harvard University 
and has a master’s in business administration from Babson
College in  Massachusetts .  Sheehan “has been instrumental in helping to reposition
and reduce certain risk exposures in the portfolio,” Fraizer
said in Genworth’s statement. “Ron leaves with our investment
portfolio in a strong position.”  Joelson graduated in 1980 from Hamilton College in Clinton,
 New York , and has an MBA from  Columbia University , according to
Northwestern. He starts the new job on June 4, replacing Mark Doll, who will retire June 30 after a 40-year career with the
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  