-- GLG Hong Kong Managers Said to Plan Own Asia Hedge Fund
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-04-27T03:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/glg-hong-kong-managers-said-to-plan-own-asia-hedge-fund.html
Kelvin Woo and Joe Zhang are
leaving GLG Partners Inc., the London-based hedge fund  bought  by
 Man Group Plc (EMG)  in 2010, to set up their own Asia-focused macro
hedge fund, said four people with knowledge of the matter.  The two, both emerging-markets managers based in Hong Kong,
may start the fund in July, said the people who asked not to be
identified because the information is private. Angela Fung, a
Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for Man, confirmed Zhang’s departure.
Woo declined to comment when reached by phone.  Woo and Zhang join managers such as former Perry Capital
LLC Asia head Alp Ercil and Carl Huttenlocher, who had led
Highbridge Capital Management LLC’s regional business, in
leaving big global companies to start their own hedge funds.  Fifty-eight Asian hedge funds started by new and existing
managers last year raised a combined $4.43 billion, the highest
amount since the industry peaked in 2007, according to a
February statement by London-based AsiaHedge. Huttenlocher’s
Myriad Asset Management Ltd. and former Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
proprietary trader Morgan Sze’s Azentus Capital Management Ltd.
were among the year’s biggest startups in the region.  High-Quality Funds  “Demand for high-quality hedge funds in  Asia  has been on
the rise, demonstrated by some high-profile launches in the past
couple of years,” said Max Gottschalk, Hong Kong-based co-
founder of Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd., which allocates
$7.6 billion to hedge funds. “Managers with strong pedigrees
have been able to raise some good assets at launch, but few have
delivered on expectation.”  Woo and Zhang will be joined by Tony Gravanis, a former
Morgan Stanley colleague, the people said. The three plan to
name their Hong Kong-based company HighIsland  Capital Partners ,
after a part of the city’s scenic Sai Kung area, said the people.
Macro hedge funds seek to profit from broad economic trends by
trading credit, currency, commodity to equity instruments.  Woo was an asset manager on GLG’s emerging markets team,
according to an official biography in a first-quarter
 presentation  for the Man GLG Emerging Markets Income Fund.  Morgan Stanley Alumni  He started working as a consultant for GLG in May 2009 and
joined the hedge fund in its  Hong Kong  office a year later,
involved in foreign-exchange, fixed-income and equities
investments in Asia. He had been a managing director with Morgan
Stanley before GLG, having built the bank’s emerging markets
business in Hong Kong, according to the presentation.  Zhang joined GLG in November 2010, the document showed. He
was an  executive director  at Morgan Stanley where he had
initiated trading of Asia rate option and exotic products in
foreign exchange and credit derivatives.  The two worked under Karim Abdel-Motaal and Bart Turtelboom,
former global co-heads of Morgan Stanley’s emerging markets
business, who joined GLG in September 2008 to replace its top
hedge-fund manager Greg Coffey, according to the document.  GLG’s Emerging Markets Income Portfolio returned an
annualized 16 percent from November 2007 through December 2011,
outperforming the 6.3 percent retreat of the emerging markets
stocks index and 8.2 percent gain in the emerging markets bonds
index, according to the document.  GLG’s Return  It lost 1.7 percent last year, the only annual loss since
2007, according to the document. Almost 16 percent of its gross
exposure, the total value of bets on and against securities, was
in Asia and  Australia  at the end of December.  GLG managed $26.2 billion at the end of December, according
to the document.  Azentus’s assets hit as much as $2 billion after its April
2011 inception. Myriad’s assets swell to $900 million by March 1,
after investment started on Dec. 1, two people with knowledge of
the matter said in March.  Investors have favored macro hedge funds less linked to
stock markets since the global financial crisis, with such
managers receiving $7.8 billion of net new capital globally in
the first quarter, half of the industry total, according to
Chicago-based data provider Hedge Fund Research Inc. Macro funds
drew $27.9 billion of new capital in 2011.  Uncommon Strategies  Asia macro funds are still one of the more uncommon
strategies making up 5 percent of the macro hedge fund universe,
while Asia’s gross domestic product accounts for 30 percent of
global GDP, said Alexander Mearns, chief executive officer of
Singapore-based data provider Eurekahedge Pte.  “Due to the un-crowded space, raising assets for those
funds that perform well, whilst still challenging, should be
easier than other strategies,” Mearns said.  Dymon Asia Capital ( Singapore ) Pte expanded assets to $2.85
billion by February, having started trading in August 2008 with
$113 million of initial capital from  Paul Tudor Jones ’s Tudor
Investment Corp. The Singapore-based company’s main macro fund
returned more than 20 percent last year, making it the best
performing Asia hedge fund with assets of more than $1 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A group of UBS AG traders are leaving the bank to form
Sydney-based macro hedge fund MST Capital, Gerard Satur, who
will lead the new company, said in February.  “Having a strong pedigree is not necessarily enough these
days to guarantee success,” Mearns said, adding high-profile
hedge fund startups set up by former employees by banks and
other financial institutions “have quietly disappeared due to
lack of performance and capital.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  