-- Goldman’s J. Michael Evans, Ripert, Samuelsson: Scene
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-27T16:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/goldman-s-j-michael-evans-ripert-samuelsson-scene.html
J.  Michael Evans , vice chairman at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , who oversees the firm’s business in
 emerging markets , last night paid $22,000 for  Eric Ripert  to
cook in his home.  At the Children’s Storefront auction, he also bid a winning
$13,000 for brunch at the Red Rooster, honoree  Marcus Samuelsson ’s restaurant.  (The Ripert price was a comparative bargain: at an April 24
benefit, an unidentified member of the City Harvest board had
paid $200,000 for the same privilege.)  In a week when Goldman Chief Executive Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein told CNBC that the board has a successor in mind and
hasn’t told that person yet, Evans, sometimes named as a leading
candidate for the job, asserted himself on behalf of two New
York charities.  At his side was his tall blonde Norwegian wife, Lise Evans,
one night wearing St. John, the other Lanvin.  The Lanvin, a pink and red cocktail dress, came out for “A
Night for Changing Lives,” the Children’s Storefront benefit at
the IAC Building, where Michael, 54, and Lise, 44, were event
chairmen (and Michael wore a business suit and a tie with a
whale pattern).  The tuition-free independent school, located in four
brownstones on East 129th Street in Harlem, teaches 174 students
in pre-kindergarten through the eighth grade.  Education Master  Lise first served the school as a student teacher while
earning a master’s degree in English education at  Columbia
University ’s Teachers College. A board member for seven years,
she will be installed as board chairwoman in July.  Two days earlier Michael and Lise were co-chairmen with
seven other couples, including Heather and Steve Mnuchin, of
“An Evening of Practical Magic,” the City Harvest benefit at
Cipriani 42nd Street. There the couple sat with Credit Suisse’s
Bob Jain, Goldman colleague Henry Cornell, the writer Jay McInerney and Ripert, chef at Le Bernardin.  Michael joined the board of City Harvest last year, having
learned about it from Ripert, a City Harvest board member, at
whose restaurant he is a frequent customer. One of his favorite
dishes is the thinly pounded yellow fin tuna served with foie
gras.  “Not too much, not too little, light and beautiful,”
Michael said of the dish.  “It was not a question of convincing or recruiting Michael
to the board,” Ripert said. “He wanted to do it.”  Stephens Praised  “ City Harvest  fits the things that Lise and I are
interested in,” Michael said, praising the organization’s
executive director, Jilly Stephens. “Ask yourself this: Who
writes anything negative about City Harvest? It’s one of the
most efficient ecosystems for the redistribution of food.”  An Olympic gold medalist for the Canadian rowing team in
1984, Michael has been described by his former Princeton
University teammate John Seabrook as “super, super
competitive.”  He said he still rows a single on occasion in Southampton.  Lise, for her part, grew up a skier. Now she likes to kick
box. Her goal as chairwoman, she said, is to expand
collaborations with Harlem Children’s Zone, the Studio Museum in
Harlem and other institutions in the neighborhood.  Richter, Kennedy  Also this week: Jim Berk, CEO of Participant Media, joined
the lead singer of Train, Pat Monahan, former New York Ranger
Mike Richter and Robert F. Kennedy Jr. to support Riverkeeper.
Susan Sarandon and Padma Lakshmi also attended.  Berk said the documentary about hunger by chef and Craft
restaurateur  Tom Colicchio  and filmmaker Lori Silverbush will be
released in early 2013.  Sir John Soane’s  Museum in  London  held a benefit at 583
Park where art dealer Angela Westwater chatted with the Met
Museum Greek and Roman art curator Carlos A. Picon. In the same
venue,  Mario Cuomo  gave a tribute to his wife, Matilda Cuomo, on
behalf of the SLE Lupus Foundation, which increased the revenue
at its Bag Ladies Luncheon to $250,000 from $183,000.  Venetian Heritage lured its supporters with  Tilda Swinton 
and  Richard Gere . And at the Whitney Museum of American Art,
choreographer Sarah Michelson received the Bucksbaum Award, a
$100,000 grant bestowed on an artist in the biennial, named
after and endowed by Melva Bucksbaum, a museum trustee.
Michelson, the second female to receive the award in 12 years,
will also get her own exhibition at the Whitney.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Zinta Lundborg’s  NYC Weekend  and
 Greg Evans  on  movies .  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 