-- Goldman Sachs Names Wainstein Brazil Investment Bank Chairman
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-04-27T21:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/goldman-sachs-names-wainstein-brazil-investment-bank-chairman.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
fifth-largest U.S. bank, expanded its management team for Brazil
investment banking, naming Daniel Wainstein chairman and adding
two co-chief operating officers.  Antonio Pereira and Fabio Bicudo, previously managing
directors at the New York-based company, were named co-COOs and
Wainstein, 42, who was head of the Brazil investment bank, will
become chairman effective immediately, Stephen Scherr, Goldman
Sachs’s chief for  Latin America  and global head of the
investment bank’s financing group, said in an interview.  “We have been expanding the team, and we need Daniel to
have more client engagement,” Scherr said, adding that Goldman
Sachs has doubled the number of employees as revenue increased
from the business in the past three years. Goldman Sachs has
about 300 people in  Brazil , Scherr said.  Pereira and Bicudo “will assist Daniel in the day-to-day
management tasks,” freeing him up to develop client
relationships, Scherr said.  The firm, which doesn’t disclose Brazil revenue or profit,
last month named Paulo Leme as chairman for the country. The
firm has said its strategy in Brazil is to focus on complex
products with higher profit margins, such as convertible debt
and receivables securitization.  U.S. and international banks are competing against Brazil-
based companies such as Banco Itau BBA SA and Banco BTG Pactual
SA, which have used their stronger local contacts to squeeze out
foreign firms.  Merger Advisers  Goldman Sachs didn’t make the top 10 in any Brazil
investment-banking category in 2009 or 2010, excluding
international bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The firm was No. 8 among Brazil merger advisers last year, with
$14.8 billion in deals, and ranks 10th this year for M&A, with
two deals totaling $2.62 billion.  Goldman Sachs completed its strategy to become a full-
service bank in Brazil in 2009, after two failed attempts to buy
local firms. In 1998, Goldman Sachs tried to buy Banco de
Investimentos Garantia SA, which was acquired by Credit Suisse
Group AG.  Seven years later it sought to purchase Banco Pactual SA,
an investment bank later acquired by UBS AG. Pactual was sold
back to BTG Partners in 2009 and is now Banco BTG Pactual SA.
BTG went public this week in a $1.94 billion initial offering
that Goldman Sachs helped underwrite.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  