-- Google Says It’s Being Investigated in Argentina, Korea
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-27T20:27:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/google-says-it-s-being-investigated-in-argentina-korea.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s business practices
are the subject of investigations by regulators in Argentina and
 South Korea , according to a regulatory filing.  Argentina’s main antitrust agency and the Korea Fair Trade
Commission in South Korea have opened an investigation into
“certain business practices,” Mountain View, California-based
Google said in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission this week.  “The Argentinian  Competition Commission  notified us that
they are conducting a preliminary inquiry into our search and
search advertising services, and we are of course happy to
answer their questions,” Google said in an e-mailed statement.  The probe in South Korea, Google said, “is an ongoing
inquiry that started last year and we continue to cooperate with
regulators.”  A spokesman at the Korea Fair Trade Commission declined to
comment on the investigation or to be identified, citing
internal policy prohibiting officials from discussing on-going
probes on the record.  Argentina ’s antitrust agency started investigating Google
in November 2010 to determine if it holds a dominant position in
the online search and advertising markets that could have an
adverse effect on competition, according to a statement today
from the agency.  The agency was considering an investigation into whether
Google accepts payments in return for letting certain websites
appear at the top of Internet searches, Argentina’s El Cronista
newspaper reported early last year, without saying where it
obtained the information.  Global Scrutiny  Google’s Seoul office was raided by South Korea’s antitrust
regulator as part of a probe into whether the owner of the
world’s largest search engine unfairly blocked competitors in
the mobile-search market, a person familiar with the
investigation said in September.  Google is under pressure from global antitrust agencies,
including the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and the European
Commission, which are probing whether the company takes steps to
thwart competition.  The on-site investigation at Google’s Seoul office resulted
from complaints filed by  NHN Corp. (035420)  and  Daum Communications
Corp. (035720) , South Korea’s two largest Internet-search companies, the
person with knowledge of the matter said in September.  Google fell less than 1 percent to $614.98 at the close in
New York. The stock has declined 4.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  