-- Greece Pays Finland Collateral Money
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-04-27T13:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/greece-pays-finland-collateral-money.html
Finland  received the first
installment of collateral payments that it demanded from  Greece 
as a condition for contributing to the second bailout of the
debt-burdened southern European nation.  Finland was paid 311 million euros ($412 million) by
Greece, the  Finance Ministry  in Helsinki said today in a
statement on its website. The total payments to Finland are 925
million euros, paid gradually as Greece gets the funds from its
second bailout, according to the ministry.  Finland was the only country to take the collateral deal
reached in October, after more than four months of talks.
Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen sought the extra assurances to
limit liabilities to taxpayers in the northernmost euro country.  After discussions with Greek banks involved in the deal,
the Finnish ministry will publish parts of the agreement
originally labeled confidential, it said. Finland’s government
this week survived its second no-confidence vote in parliament
over the euro rescue.  Under the accord, Greek bonds will be transferred from
Greek banks to a trustee, which will sell them and invest the
proceeds in AAA rated bonds with maturities of 15 to 30 years.
In exchange, Finland pays upfront its share of the capital of
the permanent rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism.  One of four AAA rated euro members, Finland’s 10-year bonds
have the smallest spread with German similar-maturity securities
within the single currency region. The spread was unchanged at
41.3 basis points at 4:08 p.m. in Helsinki.  Finland’s parliament will begin debate on the ESM founding
treaty on May 3. The country won’t demand collateral for any
payments made from the permanent fund, which is scheduled to
begin operation on July 1, Urpilainen has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  