-- ICBC Profit Growth at 3-Year Low as China’s Economy Cools
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/icbc-profit-growth-at-3-year-low-as-china-s-economy-cools.html
Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the country’s two
largest lenders, posted the slowest earnings growth in more than
two years as the economy faltered.  ICBC’s  net income  climbed 14 percent to 61.3 billion yuan
($9.7 billion) from 53.8 billion yuan a year earlier, the
Beijing-based bank said in a statement yesterday. That compares
with the 61.7 billion-yuan average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. CCB’s profit rose 9.2 percent to
51.5 billion yuan, below an average estimate of 53 billion yuan.  China’s three biggest lenders, including  Bank of China
Ltd. , are seeking to extend earnings growth by lending more to
small businesses and cutting credit to developers and local-
government financing vehicles. Average profit growth at the
nation’s six largest Hong Kong-listed banks slowed to 19 percent
in the quarter from 34 percent a year earlier.  “The operating environment this year will be more
difficult,” Ronald Wan, a Hong Kong-based managing director at
 China  Merchants Securities Co., said by telephone yesterday.
“Chinese banks’ profit growth won’t climb back to the level we
saw last year, and they’re likely to maintain levels similar to
what we had in the first quarter.”  China’s  economy  last quarter expanded at the slowest pace
in almost three years, increasing pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to ease policy further. Economists at Nomura, Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley last month increased their GDP forecasts for
2012 partly because they expect policy loosening.  Reserve Requirement Cut  The nation’s banks doled out 2.46 trillion yuan of  new
loans  in the first quarter, an increase of 10 percent from the
same period a year earlier. New local-currency lending of 1.01
trillion yuan in March was the highest in a year after the
central bank cut lenders’ reserve requirements twice since
December. Citigroup Inc. predicts three more cuts this year.  Shares (1398)  of mainland lenders have rallied by an average of 52
percent in Hong Kong since hitting a 2 1/2-year low in October
on forecasts that economic growth would accelerate following the
first quarter.  “Valuations of these banks continue to remain
attractive,” said Sandy Mehta, chief executive officer of Hong
Kong-based Value Investment Principals Ltd. Non-performing loans
“will be pretty well-behaved, but that could be an area of
concern.”  ICBC said last month it plans to keep its non-performing
loan ratio below 1.2 percent this year. The measure stood at
0.89 percent at the end of March.  Loan Growth  ICBC advanced 369 billion yuan of new loans in the three-
month period, taking the outstanding amount to 8.2 trillion
yuan. Non-performing loans fell to 72.8 billion yuan from 73
billion yuan at the beginning of the year, according to
yesterday’s statement.  Premier Wen is trying to spur lending to smaller companies
while restricting home loans that run the risk of inflating a
property bubble. The government “will strictly implement and
gradually improve policies and measures for discouraging
speculative or investment-driven housing demand,” Wen said in a
March 5 speech in Beijing.  The risk of lending to China’s indebted property developers
is growing as it becomes more difficult for them to find cash
amid falling home prices,  Liu Mingkang , former chairman of the
banking regulator, said last week.  China’s March home prices fell in a record 37 of 70 cities
tracked by the government. The eastern city of Wenzhou led
declines with a 9 percent slump in values from a year earlier,
according to the statistics bureau.  Developer Bankruptcy  Hangzhou Glory Real Estate Co. filed for insolvency last
month. It’s the first developer to fail following the
government’s property curbs, China Business News reported. CCB
told its 38 regional offices to halt loans to small-sized
developers, the newspaper said on April 18.  Moody’s Investors Service on April 12 kept its “stable”
outlook on China banks, saying a “soft landing” of the economy
will allow them to maintain profitability and manage a likely
gradual rise in non-performing loans.  Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. , the nation’s fourth-
biggest bank by assets, said yesterday profit rose 28 percent to
43.5 billion yuan in the first quarter as income from loans and
fee-based services increased while costs tied to bad loans
dropped.  The country’s five largest lenders, which control about
half of the deposit and lending markets, may report combined net
income of 758 billion yuan in 2012, up 12 percent from last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI
China/Financials Index, which includes all nine Hong Kong-traded
mainland banks, has tripled in the past eight years.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Jun Luo in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Tong in  Hong Kong  at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  