-- Tigers Outfielder Young Charged With Harassment in Drunken Fight
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-27T19:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/tigers-outfielder-young-charged-with-harassment-in-drunken-fight.html
Detroit Tigers outfielder Delmon Young was arrested early this morning in  Manhattan  after a
drunken altercation at a midtown hotel prompted a 911 call, the
New York Police Department said.  Young, 26, was charged with racial or religious aggravated
harassment and the incident is being investigated by the NYPD’s
Hate Crime Task Force, according to Officer Markowski in the
Office of the Deputy Commissioner of Public Information, who
declined to provide her first name citing a department policy.  The charges came following a verbal dispute that turned
physical at the Hilton New York hotel, Markowski said today in a
telephone interview. The altercation left an unidentified 32-
year-old man with a scratch on his arm.  The incident began when Young yelled anti-Semitic
obscenities at a panhandler wearing a yarmulke, the New York
Post  reported today , citing unidentified police sources.
Markowski was unable to confirm the report.  It is the most recent controversy for Young, the top pick
in the 2003 Major League Baseball draft, who in 2006 received a
50-game minor-league suspension for throwing a bat at an umpire
following a called third strike.  The Tigers open a three-game series against the New York
Yankees tonight in the Bronx. The team said in an e-mailed
statement that it wouldn’t comment on the incident, citing a
club policy on pending legal matters.  “As we understand it, this is an allegation and we need to
allow the legal process to take its course,” the team said.  Young made his MLB debut with the Tampa Bay Devil Rays in
August 2006 and was traded to the  Minnesota Twins  the following
year. He set career highs with 21 home runs, 112 runs batted in
and 46 doubles in 2010 as a member of the Twins.  In 18 games this season, Young is hitting .242 with one
home run and five RBIs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  