-- INA’s Aldott Says Company to Focus on Croatia After Syria Exit
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-04-27T14:03:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/ina-s-aldott-says-company-to-focus-on-croatia-after-syria-exit.html
INA Industrija Nafte d.d. , a
Croatian refiner controlled by Hungary’s  Mol Nyrt. (MOL) , will focus
on upgrading its domestic business after it pulled out of Syria
to comply with the European Union policy, the head of the
management board Zoltan Aldott said.  The company will invest about 2 billion kuna ($352 million)
this year to continue with the overhaul of refineries in Rijeka
and Sisak, modernize its retail network and boost research and
exploration, Aldott said today in a briefing in Zagreb. That
marks an increase from 1.5 billion kuna in total investment in
2011.  “This year, we’ll focus strongly on Croatia,” he said.
“We also want to stay financially flexible in the future, and
as it’s not easy to get the financing in this market, it’s
better for us to be a bit conservative,” he said.  Croatian companies are struggling to shore up earnings as
authorities fight the country’s prolonged recession and
declining demand from abroad during the European debt crisis.
Croatia’s largest refiner was also hit by the civil violence in
 Syria , which caused it to shut its once-profitable Middle
Eastern business.  INA’s first-quarter net income fell to 412 million kuna
from 1.05 billion kuna a year earlier, the company reported
today. Revenue rose to 7.2 billion kuna from 6.9 billion, while
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization
declined to 1.29 billion kuna, down from 1.8 billion kuna.  ‘Difficult Circumstances’  “INA Group got strong results in difficult external
circumstances and even without income from Syria,” Aldott said.
Efficient management, beneficial exchange rates, and improved
refineries attributed to the quarterly profit, following a loss
of 257 million kuna in the previous quarter, he said.  In 2011, profit almost doubled as Syrian revenue boosted
the first three quarters before violence escalated. INA
announced on Feb. 27 it is pulling out of Syria, following the
Croatian government decree to abide by an EU embargo on the
Middle Eastern country.  “We don’t expect this to be a short-term issue,” Aldott
said.  INA,  Croatia ’s fourth-biggest employer, spent about 17
billion kuna in the last decade to expand its operations. Mol,
which secured managing rights in a 2009 contract with the
Croatian government, owns 47.47 percent of INA. The government
holds a 44.84 percent stake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  