-- India’s Rupee Set for Fourth Weekly Loss as Foreign Funds Sell
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-04-27T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/india-s-rupee-set-for-fourth-weekly-loss-as-foreign-funds-sell.html
India ’s rupee was set for a fourth
weekly decline after foreign funds pulled money from local
assets and as  Standard & Poor’s  cut the nation’s credit-rating
outlook.  The rupee touched a three-month low on April 24, a day
before S&P lowered the sovereign credit outlook to negative from
stable citing diminishing growth prospects and the widening
current-account deficit. Overseas investors sold $277 million
more local stocks than they bought in the first three days of
the week and pulled $204 million from Indian bonds this month
through April 25, exchange data show.  “Investors are probably selling the rupee because the
fundamentals may weaken in the short term,” said Sudarshan Bhatt, chief currency trader at state-run  Corporation Bank  in
Mumbai. “The outflows are accelerating based on this sentiment
and the rupee may weaken further.”  The rupee fell 1 percent this week to 52.585 per dollar as
of 9:57 a.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It dropped 0.1 percent today. The currency’s 3.2 percent decline
this month is the worst performance among the 10 most-traded
 Asia  currencies excluding the yen.  Asia’s third-biggest economy probably  expanded  6.9 percent
in the year through March, the least in three years, according
to a government forecast on Feb. 7 before official data due next
month.  Three-month  offshore  non-deliverable forward contracts
traded at 53.69 a dollar, compared with 53.22 at the end of last
week and 53.65 yesterday. Forwards are agreements to buy or sell
assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are
settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  