-- Intuit to Acquire Demandforce for $423.5 Million
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-04-27T21:42:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/intuit-to-acquire-demandforce-for-423-5-million.html
Intuit Inc. (INTU) , a provider of tax and
finance software, agreed to buy Demandforce, a closely held e-
mail marketing company, for $423.5 million in cash in its
biggest acquisition in six years.  The deal, projected to close in May, would add one to two
percentage points to Intuit’s  revenue growth  next year and will
be neutral or “modestly” reduce earnings this and next fiscal
year,  Mountain View , California-based Intuit said today in a
statement. San Francisco-based Demandforce generated sales of
$37.5 million last year, Patrick Barry, the company’s chief
marketing officer, said today in an e-mail.  Intuit Chief Executive Officer  Brad Smith  has been using
deals to expand into new areas such as mobile payments and
health care. The maker of tax preparation, small-business
accounting and personal-finance software -- including Quicken
and TurboTax -- this month acquired mobile-phone shopping
company AisleBuyer LLC for an undisclosed amount.  Demandforce’s product lets small businesses such as dental
offices, auto repair shops and spas manage communication with
customers and schedule appointments. The software also lets
businesses talk with customers through Facebook and Twitter.  Demandforce’s monthly subscription prices of $200 to $300
are “well above” Intuit’s average selling price per small
business customer,  Peter Goldmacher , an analyst at Cowen & Co.
in  San Francisco , said in a research note to clients.  ‘Driver of Growth’  “The next decade of growth in software will come from
small businesses who can now buy enterprise-class software at
very compelling prices,” said Goldmacher, who rates Intuit
shares outperform, the equivalent of a buy. “Successful cross
selling for Intuit is a material driver of growth and margins.”  This is Intuit’s second-largest transaction in at least 19
years and the biggest since 2006, according to Bloomberg  data .  Intuit  rose  less than 1 percent to $57.98 at the close in
 New York . The shares have gained 10 percent this year.  Intuit is scheduled to report results on May 18 for its
fiscal third quarter, the company’s largest in sales and profit
because it includes TurboTax sales ahead of the government’s
April filing deadline. Revenue will be “at or slightly below
the low end” of its previous forecast, Intuit said April 20.  Yesterday, Intuit said Jeff Weiner, the CEO of online
social networking company  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , had joined its board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  