-- Iran Talks Breakthrough Has One-in-Three Chance, Carnegie Says
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-04-27T13:23:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/iran-talks-breakthrough-has-one-in-three-chance-carnegie-says.html
The chances of a breakthrough in
talks over  Iran ’s disputed nuclear program are now as high as
one in three, said Dmitri Trenin of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.  “Things are moving,” Trenin, director of the Moscow
Carnegie Center, the Russian branch of the Washington-based
research group, said in an interview today. Iran’s ambassador in
Moscow, Mahmoud-Reza Sajjadi, said April 25 that his country is
considering a Russian proposal to halt the expansion of its
nuclear program to avert new sanctions.  “The Russian proposal is a good proposal from most points
of view, it doesn’t constrain the Iranian scientific research,”
said Trenin. “They realize that trying to move to weapons grade
will cost them too much.”  Russia , one of the six world powers negotiating with Iran,
says the deal would be the first in a series of mutual
concessions designed to end in an accord that would remove
suspicions about Iranian intent regarding atomic weapons.  Under the proposal, Iran would stop building centrifuges,
machines used to enrich uranium, and mothball ones that haven’t
been put into use yet.  Iran and the five permanent United Nations Security Council
members -- the U.S., the U.K.,  China , Russia and  France  -- plus
 Germany  met in Istanbul this month for the first talks in 15
months. The next round, in  Baghdad , is scheduled for May 23.  Agreement on the Russian proposal might be hard to reach
before July 1, when the European Union is planning to impose an
embargo on oil from Iran, said Trenin. The EU might delay the
ban to win “a little bit more room for maneuver,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  