-- Irish Nurse Has Home Loan Wiped Out as Debt Dominates Debate
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-04-27T10:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/irish-nurse-has-home-loan-wiped-out-as-debt-dominates-debate.html
Bank of Ireland Plc  forgave a
nurse’s 152,000 euro ($210,000) home loan, in the highest-
profile case yet of a lender writing off debt amid the worst
housing slump in the country’s history.  Laura White said she agreed to repay the Dublin bank 18,000
euros over six years as part of the accord agreed this week
after she surrendered her house, she told state-broadcaster  RTE 
today. She said she bought the house in North Dublin  with a
loan of 245,000 euros.  “There is great mercy that the banks have showed,” White
told the Dublin-based broadcaster in an interview today. “There
is great hope for people here.”  The case, first reported by the  Irish Times  newspaper
today, is focusing attention on how the country grapples with
soured home loans in a country where one in seven mortgages are
in trouble. The government sought a bailout in 2010 after losses
in the banking system became too big to handle alone.  “Banks probably still have to absorb large losses, the
housing market and economy remain weak,”  Michael Saunders ,
economist at Citigroup Inc. in  London  said in a note today. “A
second bailout will be needed to help finance the government.”  Ireland’s real estate market collapsed in 2008. The
economy has since shrunk about 15 percent, the  unemployment rate 
has tripled to 14.3 percent and 14 percent of private
residential mortgages were either more than 90 days in arrears
or restructured at the end of December, according to the Irish
central bank.  Unsustainable  The country’s central bank said today it is pushing banks
to find solutions to unsustainable mortgages.  “We have set a specific timeline for delivery which
requires lenders to segment their mortgage arrears portfolios
and to pilot appropriate solutions by the end of September this
year, with the full roll out to commence in the last quarter of
the year,” said Bernard Sheridan, director of consumer
protection at the central bank, in a speech.  Bank of Ireland Chief Executive Officer Richie Boucher told
shareholders this week that it is important that banks be
allowed to deal with mortgage holders on an “individualized
basis.” A spokeswoman for the bank said the lender doesn’t
comment on individual cases.  “Deals like this are going to become commonplace,” said
Ross Maguire, the lawyer who represented White in the
settlement. “They are going to be based not on the level of
writedown the bank is forced to take but rather on the ability
of the borrower to pay and get on with their lives.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  