-- Italian Borrowing Costs Jump at $7.9 Billion Auction
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-04-27T11:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/italian-borrowing-costs-jump-at-7-9-billion-auction.html
Italy  sold 5.95 billion euros ($7.9
billion) of bonds today and the country paid 60 basis points
more than a month ago to sell  10-year debt  as Standard & Poor’s
downgrade of Spain fueled concern about securities of so-called
peripheral countries.  The Treasury sold the 10-year benchmark at a rate of 5.84
percent, up from 5.24 percent at the previous auction on March
29. Investors bid for 1.48 times the amount offered, down from
1.65 times last month. The Treasury also sold 2.42 billion euros
of five-year debt to yield 4.86 percent compared with 4.18
percent at the previous auction last month.  Italian bonds were weaker going into the auction after
 Standard & Poor’s  cut its rating on Spain by two levels to BBB+
yesterday, saying the country may need to pour more money into
shoring up the nation’s banks. Italian and Spanish 10-year
yields have both risen about 60 basis points this month after
both countries pushed back deficit-reduction goals, citing the
deepening recession.  “The auction went O.K. in terms of demand also because the
market cheapened into the sale,” Biagio Lapolla, a rate
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London , said
by phone. “The Spanish downgrade has already been priced in by
the markets and while a clear negative, it is unlikely to have a
significant impact on Italy and the other peripheral countries
on its own.”  Bonds Decline  The Italian treasury also sold two bonds due 2016 and 2019
to yield 4.29 percent and 5.21 percent respectively. The
treasury managed to sell the maximum target of 2.5 billion euros
of the 10-year bonds, though fell short of the maximum 6.25
billion euros for the entire sale, placing 5.95 billion euros of
the securities.  Italian 10-year  government bonds  stayed lower after the
auction, with the yield rising eight basis points higher to 5.72
percent at 1:35 p.m. Rome time. Five year-note yields climbed 15
basis points to 4.92 percent. Today’s sale comes after borrowing
costs jumped at an auction of six-month bills yesterday as the
Treasury was forced to offer higher rates to attract investors.  Demand for the benchmark bonds was “O.K. but the Spanish
debt downgrade certainly led to more caution amongst market
dealers who might see further debt agency action also on the
Italian debt,” Annalisa Piazza, a strategies at Newedge Group
in London, wrote in  an e-mail to investors today. “The country
is struggling to remain afloat with the negative effects of the
austerity measures.”  Italy now expects its economy to  shrink  1.2 percent this
year, while  Spain ’s will contract 1.7 percent, complicating
efforts to rein in budget deficits.  Germany ,  Europe ’s biggest
economy and the largest contributor to bailouts for  Greece ,
 Portugal  and Ireland, is facing demands from across the region
to ease its emphasis on austerity as a $1 trillion firewall and
unlimited loans by the  European Central Bank  fail to settle
markets and stop the crisis from threatening Spain and Italy.  Europe’s fiscal-austerity push, while necessary, risks
coming to an “inglorious end” without policies that stimulate
demand and supply, Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , who is
pushing through 20 billion euros of austerity measures at home,
told a conference in Brussels yesterday.  European Central Bank president  Mario Draghi  used a speech
in Brussels on April 25 to urge European leaders to widen their
crisis response beyond cutting debt and deficits, the goal of
the German-led fiscal pact signed by euro-area leaders in March.  French socialist presidential frontrunner  Francois Hollande 
is making softening austerity policies a central plank of his
campaign. Hollande, who beat Sarkozy in the first round of his
re-election bid, has already said that his country won’t ratify
the pact in its current form if he is elected, raising concerns
about the future of French-German cooperation to fight the
crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  