-- Japan Wind Development Cuts President’s Pay on Information Leak
-- B y   C h i s a k i   W a t a n a b e
-- 2012-04-27T12:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/japan-wind-development-cuts-president-s-pay-on-information-leak.html
Japan Wind Development Co., (2766)  a wind-
farm developer, said it will cut President Masayuki Tsukawaki’s
compensation by 30 percent for three months after information he
gave to two recipients resulted in insider trading cases.  “Important facts that became the basis of these insider
trading cases were passed by President Masayuki Tsukawaki to the
recipients in his exchanges to explain the current situation of
our company,” it said in a statement today. A company committee
“agreed a board meeting should give him a strong warning to be
more careful managing information including important facts, and
cut his  executive compensation  30 percent for three months.”  Officials at Japan Wind, which posted today’s statement on
its website, weren’t available for comment when Bloomberg News
tried to call the company’s office after regular business hours.
The release was also posted on the Tokyo Stock Exchange website.  The  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  on Feb.
3 said one person sold 50 shares for 9.2 million yen ($114,000)
in June 2010 after learning from an executive that Japan Wind
was set to be put on a stock-exchange watchlist. The person, who
wasn’t identified by the commission, was ordered to pay a 6.5
million yen fine, according to the Financial Services Agency.  Another individual sold 470 shares for about 86.6 million
yen, also in June 2010, after receiving information from an
executive of the company, the watchdog said on March 28.  Japan Wind said its compliance committee probed the cases
that were announced by the commission on Feb. 3 and March 28.  Tsukawaki had sought “continued support” for Japan Wind
in 2010 when the company “was responding to frequent queries
from business partners because of various issues,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chisaki Watanabe in Tokyo at 
 cwatanabe5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  