-- Bank of Japan Expands Stimulus as Economy Set to Slow
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-27T09:10:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/japan-production-rises-less-than-forecast-as-boj-meets.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  expanded its plan
for government-bond purchases by 10 trillion yen ($124 billion)
after the world’s third-largest economy showed signs of slowing
and lawmakers pressed for more aggressive steps.  The BOJ will boost its asset-purchase fund to 40 trillion
yen by June 2013, compared with the previous target of 30
trillion yen by year-end, it said in a statement today in Tokyo.
A separate central bank program providing funds to banks was
pared by 5 trillion yen amid lackluster demand for loans.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa was under pressure to act after
a group of lawmakers proposed overhauling the BOJ’s governing
law to ensure steps to end the deflation afflicting the nation
for more than a decade. The BOJ today said today its 1 percent
inflation goal will be achieved before too long, a prediction of
victory that undermines the impact of today’s stimulus,
according to Credit Suisse Group AG’s chief  Japan  economist.  “The effect of these positive actions could be completely
erased,” said Tokyo-based Hiromichi Shirakawa, who worked at
the central bank before joining Credit Suisse. “It’s like the
BOJ said it’s going to press on the accelerator and they
suddenly hit the brake hard.”  The analysis of Shirakawa, no relation of the BOJ chief,
was reflected in the reaction of Japan’s currency. The yen
initially slid after the asset-purchase increase exceeded the
forecasts of some analysts, then recouped the losses. It was
little changed at 80.59 per dollar at 5:15 p.m. in Tokyo, after
dropping as much as 0.6 percent earlier in the day.  “We are conducting policy at an appropriate pace,”
Governor Shirakawa told reporters in  Tokyo  today. Easing “of
course isn’t something we’d continue to do every month,” he
said.  Tough Decision  Manufacturers see the current yen rate making it difficult
to maintain production in Japan, National Strategy Minister
Motohisa Furukawa said in an interview this week. Industrial
production rose less than forecast in March, a government report
showed today, underscoring forecasts for the economy to slow in
coming quarters as post-earthquake reconstruction spending
fades.  Policy makers left their  benchmark interest rate  at between
zero and 0.1 percent today. The asset-purchase fund has been the
main policy tool since the rate was brought to zero in the wake
of the worsening of the global financial crisis in 2008.  The central bank also extended the maximum maturity of
 government bonds  purchases in the program to three years, from
two years. Yields on benchmark 10-year Japanese government bonds
dipped 1.5 basis points to 0.895 percent after the announcement.  Lawmakers Split  Lawmakers offered differing takes on today’s decision.
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  told reporters that the amount of
easing was appropriate, and that he hopes the BOJ will act
decisively to achieve 1 percent inflation. Yoichi Kaneko,
secretary of the ruling party’s Anti-Deflation League, said
“this is a move in the right direction but is insufficiently
strong.”  BOJ board members today predicted that consumer prices will
advance 0.7 percent in the year to March 2014, up from a
previous estimate of 0.5 percent, while still short of the goal.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food  rose  0.2 percent from
the year before, exceeding estimates, a government report showed
earlier today. The BOJ said today it would likely “be not too
long” before the target was met.  July Stimulus  The BOJ may add more stimulus in July, when it will review
forecasts released today, said analysts including Mari Iwashita,
chief market economist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.  Earlier today, a report showed  South Korea ’s current-
account surplus widened in March to a four-month high as
overseas shipments of cars, electronics and oil products rose.
The excess was $3 billion, compared with $557 million in
February. China said profits of its industrial companies
advanced in March after a drop in the previous two months.  In the U.K.,  consumer confidence  was unchanged this month
and is unlikely to improve after data this week showed the
economy slid into its first double-dip recession since 1975, GfK
NOP Ltd. said.  In  Europe , inflation in  Spain , which had its  credit rating 
cut yesterday, probably held at the slowest pace since August
2010. Consumer prices, based on European Union calculations,
rose 1.8 percent in April, according to the median estimate of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  In the U.S., gross domestic product rose at a 2.5 percent
annual rate in the first quarter after advancing 3 percent in
the previous three months, according to the median forecast of
85 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before a Commerce Department
release today.  Rebound to Wane  Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, rebounded last
quarter after shrinking in 2011 with the impact from a record
earthquake, and is forecast to moderate as a bump from
reconstruction diminishes. Industrial output in Japan gained 1
percent from February, compared with the 2.3 percent median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists, a Trade
Ministry report showed in Tokyo today.  Japan’s exporters have contended with a surge in the yen
alongside tepid demand abroad as developed nations struggle to
gain momentum from the 2008-2009 global recession and  China ’s
expansion moderates. Nintendo Co., the world’s largest maker of
video-game machines, yesterday forecast profit that fell short
of analysts’ estimates. The company is recovering from its first
annual loss since it listed in 1962.  Gorilla  Nissan Motor Co. Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn  said
this week that the currency is the unpredictable “one-thousand-
pound gorilla” that makes all Japanese car manufacturers
suffer.  Rising pressure on the BOJ comes as Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  is struggling to convince lawmakers to double a 5
percent sale tax to contain the world’s largest public debt
burden. Political pressure will remain high as politicians want
to show public that the nation is making progress toward the end
of deflation so a tax bump won’t be too much of burden,  Masayuki Kichikawa , chief economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch,
said before today’s decision.  Today’s output report also showed that manufacturers
forecast a month-on-month rise in production of 1 percent in
April and a 4.1 percent fall in May. Takuji Okubo, chief Japan
economist at Societe Generale SA in Tokyo, said the May outlook
was “devastating.”  ‘Given Up’  “It seems as if manufacturers have given up trying to go
back to pre-quake production levels,” Okubo said. “Because of
the yen and weak demand overseas, they don’t think exports are
going to expand.”  Last month’s advance in consumer prices was propelled by
higher energy costs, with household goods damping the gain,
today’s statistics bureau report showed. Shutdowns of Japan’s
nuclear reactors since the quake and tsunami have deepened the
nation’s reliance on imported fuel, boosting energy costs.  Retail sales also missed analysts’ forecasts today, with
purchases down 1.2 percent in March from the previous month,
compared with the median estimate for a 0.5 percent drop. A
separate report showed that the  unemployment rate  held at 4.5
percent last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  