-- Japan Syndicated Loans Post First Gain Since 2008
-- B y   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-04-27T01:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/japan-syndicated-loans-post-first-gain-since-2008-1-.html
Syndicated loans in  Japan  rose for
the first time since 2008 as companies sought bank debt for
overseas expansion and utilities suspended bond sales following
the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Lending increased 23.5 percent to 28.7 trillion yen ($354
billion) in the year ended March 31 from the previous 12 months,
according to figures released today on the Japanese Bankers
Association’s  website . The outstanding balance of loans rose 4
percent to 57.3 trillion yen, the highest in two years.  Toshiba Corp. and Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. led Japanese
companies which relied on loans to finance a record $88.6
billion of overseas acquisitions last fiscal year, triple the
previous period’s level, to counter stagnating domestic demand.
NKSJ Holdings Inc., Japan’s third-largest non-life insurer, said
earlier this month it will look to  emerging markets  as demand
falls at home, while JFE Holdings Inc., the second-biggest
steelmaker, plans to spend 500 billion yen offshore to grow
faster than it can in a nation battling deflation and economic
expansion that’s forecast to average less than 2 percent through
2014.  “Overseas acquisition-related investment is on the rise,”
Takeshi Ueno, a senior economist at NLI Research Institute in
Tokyo, said before the release of today’s data. “With the yen
at historically strong levels, Japanese companies can make
overseas acquisitions more cheaply, and counter reduced domestic
demand.”  Bond Sales Fall  Loan volumes were also boosted by borrowings from power
companies, which have been all but shut out of the  bond market 
since last March’s record earthquake and tsunami killed more
than 15,000 people and triggered a meltdown at  Tokyo  Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant.  Sales of Japanese corporate bonds dropped 16 percent last
fiscal year to 8.3 trillion yen as debt offered by electrical
utilities fell to 70 billion yen, less than 1 percent of the
total, from 11 percent a year earlier, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Takeda took out a 570 billion yen facility to help pay for
its 9.6 billion euro ($13 billion) purchase of  Switzerland ’s
Nycomed, making both the loan and the acquisition the country’s
biggest last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Osaka-based company paid an interest rate of about 0.2 percent.  Takeda’s Loan  Asia ’s biggest drugmaker signed an 80 billion yen facility
in March, paying one basis point more than more than the three-
month London interbank offered rate on the six-year portion and
matching the rate on the four-year part, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Sanofi SA,   France ’s largest pharmaceutical company, paid a
175 basis-point spread for a two-year loan and 90 basis points
more than the benchmark on a four-year facility for debt to fund
its acquisition of Genzyme Corp. last year, according to the
data.  Toshiba borrowed 150 billion yen in syndicated loans
arranged by Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. in January to pay for its July purchase of
Swiss electronic-metering company Landis+Gyr AG.  The funding includes a four-year facility which pays a
margin of 7.5 basis points more than the six-month Tokyo
interbank offered  rate . That’s equivalent to about 0.52 percent,
compared with the average coupon of about 1.28 percent that
Toshiba is paying on its outstanding bonds, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emi Urabe in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  