-- JB Hi-Fi Falls Most in Four Months, Discounts Hit Profits
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-04-27T07:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/jb-hi-fi-falls-most-in-four-months-discounts-hit-profits.html
JB Hi-Fi Ltd. (JBH) ,  Australia ’s second-
largest electrical goods retailer, fell to its lowest level in
three years after it forecast full-year earnings as much as 16
percent below analyst estimates.  The company slumped 6.3 percent to close at A$10.04 in
Sydney, its biggest fall in four months. Net income will be
A$100 million ($104 million) to A$105 million in the 12 months
ending June, Melbourne-based JB Hi-Fi said in a regulatory
statement, compared with the A$119 million average of 10 analyst
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Discounting by competitors amid  consumer confidence  that
has declined for seven out of the past nine months has cut
profit margins by 2 percentage points in the March quarter, the
company said.  Woolworths Ltd. (WOW)  is closing stores and selling off
its Dick Smith electronics chain, while closely held WOW Sight
and Sound went into receivership in February.  Myer Holdings
Ltd. (MYR) , the country’s largest department store chain, has stopped
selling games consoles and large household appliances.  “The level of discounting has been unusually high,”
Jacqueline Fernley, an analyst at  Wilson HTM Investment Group (WIG)  in
Sydney, said by phone. “What remains to be proven is whether
what’s occurring will help JB Hi-Fi.”  The decrease in competition should provide an opportunity
to “react aggressively to maintain our market leadership,” JB
Hi-Fi Chief Executive Officer Terry Smart said in the statement.  Price Discounts  While sales rose 8.8 percent in the March quarter, the
company’s gross margin, which measures earnings as a proportion
of revenue, fell 2 percentage points as retailers discounted
shelf prices to revive revenue growth and win market share. The
company had a gross margin of 22 percent in the 2011 financial
year. Sales from stores open at least 12 months were up 1.3
percent in the March quarter.  “This level of discounting will continue over the next
quarter but we do not believe that this is a long term
structural change,” Smart said.  The company’s shares fell a record 15 percent on Dec. 16
after several analysts cut their ratings on the stock following
a trading statement that predicted first-half earnings before
interest and tax would drop about 5 percent from a year earlier.  JB Hi-Fi is set to release full-year results on Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  