-- John Mayer, William Cohen, Jimmy Jam, Jane Seymour
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-04-27T14:36:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/john-mayer-william-cohen-jimmy-jam-jane-seymour.html
Senator  Sheldon Whitehouse , Rhode
Island Democrat, and  William Cohen , the chairman and chief
executive officer of the Cohen Group, took a trip down the
rabbit hole last night.  The Mellon Auditorium was transformed into a virtual toy
land for the Alice in Wonderland Ball, a fundraiser for the
Washington Ballet under the artistic leadership of Septime
Webre.  Webre’s most recent production of “Alice (in wonderland)”
had its debut at the Kennedy Center earlier this month.  Children dressed as a deck of cards greeted guests on the
red carpet. Heart-shaped grilled-cheese sandwiches were passed.
Little cocktail flags said “drink me.”  Webre and the ball’s chairwoman, former Ambassador to
Portugal Elizabeth F. Bagley, posed with pint-sized ballerinas
at the entrance. In the rose-colored ballroom, game cards lay on
every table.  The decor is “a perfect example of Septime’s creativity and
sense of whimsy,” explained Jack Davies, the owner of Monumental
Sports & Entertainment.  In the ballroom, Whitehouse caught up with Asset Alliance
Corp. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bruce Lipnick and Vin
Roberti, the chairman of  Roberti + White .  Ballet supporter Carrie Marriott said her daughter is
already aspiring to be a ballet dancer, and a socialite.  “Her dream is to be a party girl in ‘The Nutcracker.’”  The ball, which had 375 guests, raised more than $300,000.  Grammys on the Hill  Representative Louie Gohmert, a Texas Republican, talked to
singer John Mayer and  Recording Academy  CEO Neil Portnow.
Representative Jim McDermott, a  Washington  Democrat, chatted
with R&B star Jimmy Jam.  Artists and politicians gathered Wednesday night at the
reception and awards ceremony for Grammys on the Hill. It’s a
two-day affair where Washington insiders learn about the latest
developments in the recording industry, and individuals are
honored for their music advocacy and philanthropy.  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican, and
chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee,
was one of the first to arrive at the VIP reception at the
Liaison Capitol Hill Hotel where he was greeted by Todd Dupler,
director of government, advocacy and industry relations for the
Recording Academy.  “I like Beyonce, but I’m not so keen on her husband,” he
explained of his musical favorites. Issa huddled with Senator
 Orrin Hatch , the Utah Republican, who said his own musical
abilities include song writing.  Showing rare bipartisan affection, Hatch wrapped his arms
around the waist of the petite Representative Loretta Sanchez,
the California Democrat, who described herself as “a hard
rocker.” She added that she and her new husband, Jack
Einwechter, were recently “beepin’ and boppin’” at a Heart
concert.  Mini chicken pot pies were passed while guests stood
drinking cocktails before the award ceremony.  “I’m a big John Mayer fan. I love his work,” said
Representative Mel Watt, the North Carolina Democrat, who
attended the party with his wife, Eulada.  Jam explained he was looking forward to presenting
Representative Howard Berman, the California Democrat, with a
special award  during the ceremony, where Mayer was also lauded
for his activism.  ‘Something Old’  Former First Lady of California Maria Shriver had little
comment on the designer of her elegant ensemble at the
Alzheimer’s Association National Dinner on April 24.  “I have no idea,” said Shriver, whose late father, Sargent Shriver, had Alzheimer’s. “Something old.”  The benefit for 1,000 guests at the Renaissance Washington
also drew Senator  Debbie Stabenow , the Michigan Democrat, and
Meredith Vieira, a special correspondent for NBC News and the
host of the evening.  Vieira wore gold Christian Louboutin high heels.
“They were comfortable 20 minutes ago,” she said as she gamely
posed for pictures with fans in the hotel lobby.  Actress Jane Seymour wore a pendant around her neck from
her “Open Hearts” jewelry line, which she made in honor of the
people in her family affected with Alzheimer’s.  At dinner, Shriver presented an award to University of
Tennessee Women’s Basketball Head Coach Emeritus Pat Summitt and
her son, Tyler.  (Stephanie Green is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Today’s Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on Broadway
and New York  Weekend .  To contact the writer on this story:
 Stephanie Green  in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 