-- Kerviel Lawyer Says SocGen Altered Tape, Bank Denies Claim
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-27T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/kerviel-lawyer-says-socgen-altered-recorded-evidence-for-retrial.html
Jerome Kerviel, found guilty for a
4.9 billion-euro ($6.5 billion) trading loss at  Societe Generale
SA (GLE) , plans to file a complaint claiming evidence was tampered
with during the investigation.  David Koubbi, Kerviel’s lawyer, said at a press conference
today that he discovered after unsealing evidence last week that
a recording of Kerviel on a compact disc, made after he turned
himself in for questioning about the loss, had been edited.  “We discovered a certain number of cut-outs on this
recording,” Koubbi said at a press conference today in Paris.
“It would cut out, then return,” he said, estimating about six
hours of recorded conversation was missing.  Kerviel is appealing the 2010 guilty verdict holding him
solely responsible for the loss and sentencing him to three
years in jail and an order to repay the 4.9 billion euros. The
Paris appeals court trial is scheduled to begin June 4.  Kerviel also filed a fraud complaint a week ago, claiming
 Societe Generale  misrepresented the size of the loss attributed
to unraveling his unauthorized bets by not taking into account a
tax credit the bank received.  “This strategy is aimed at hurting the bank’s image in
taking out of context, or in presenting as new, elements
available during the procedures and in statements by the bank,”
the lender said today in an e-mailed statement. “Societe
Generale will detail its response in the face of  Jerome
Kerviel ’s allegations in a defamation complaint that will be
filed in the coming days.”  Kerviel’s lawyer faulted the investigation for not devoting
enough time to assessing the size of the loss.  The complaints are necessary to defend Kerviel, Koubbi
said, adding “it is not our intention to insult.”  Kerviel, who appeared alongside his lawyer, said “I’ve
never lost hope” and reiterated his defense from the 2010 trial
that his superiors knew of his activities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  