-- Kerzner Hands Atlantis Bahamas to Brookfield, Palm to Dubai
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 2012-04-27T20:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/kerzner-deal-hands-atlantis-bahamas-to-brookfield-palm-to-dubai.html
Kerzner International Holdings
Ltd., the company that built Atlantis resorts in the Bahamas and
Dubai, has handed ownership of its flagship properties to
creditor  Brookfield Asset Management (BAM)  and partner Dubai World in
a debt restructuring.  Kerzner sold a 50 percent stake in Atlantis the Palm in
Dubai to resort co-owner  Istithmar World , a unit of Dubai World,
for $250 million, according to a statement. Brookfield will
forgive about $175 million of junior debt for ownership of the
Bahamas-based  Atlantis Paradise Island , and the adjacent Bahamas
One&Only Ocean Club. The transactions closed today.  The restructuring shrinks Kerzner to a resort management,
development and branding company that will continue to run the
seven One&Only resorts and Atlantis properties, known for Mayan-
themed water slides and up-close encounters with dolphins and
sharks. Kerzner has struggled with debt since a $3.6 billion
leveraged buyout in 2006 led by founder Sol Kerzner took it
private for $3.6 billion. Owners include Istithmar,  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall Funds and Colony Capital LLC.  “With substantially less debt and a more flexible
operating structure, Kerzner is well positioned for sustainable
long-term growth as a global management company,” Kerzner, who
is chairman, said in the statement.  Deal With Lenders  Kerzner said it also reached a deal with lenders to
restructure its operating debt, without providing details. Part
of the proceeds of the Atlantis Dubai sale have been used to
repay some debt, according to people familiar with the
transactions who declined to be identified because the details
aren’t public.  Brookfield’s loan to Kerzner was also secured by a 50
percent stake in One&Only Palmilla in  Mexico . As part of the
restructuring, Toronto-based Brookfield may take ownership of
that stake, the people said.  Brookfield manages about $150 billion and focuses on
property, infrastructure, renewable power and private-equity
investments. Istithmar is an investment unit of  Dubai World , a
Dubai government-owned group that holds assets including ports
and islands.  Dubai World roiled global markets in 2009 when it announced
plans to delay payments on about $26 billion of debt. The
emirate received a $20 billion loan from the  United Arab
Emirates ’ central bank, the Abu Dhabi government and its banks
to survive the credit crisis and a real-estate crash.  Kerzner was advised on the restructuring by  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  and Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  ‘Mythical City’  Today’s Bahamas agreement salvages most of a November deal
that Brookfield scrapped in January amid a legal challenge by
hedge fund creditors Trilogy Portfolio Co. and Canyon Value
Realization Fund LP.  Trilogy, of Greenwich,  Connecticut , and real estate
investor Canyon, sued Brookfield in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington on Jan. 4, alleging “brazen self-dealing” in the
deal announced Nov. 29, sending creditors back to the
negotiating table.  Kerzner, 76, built what his company website calls the
“mythical city of Atlantis” on Resorts International Bahamas
property he bought from Merv Griffin, the late talk show host
and game show creator. The resort today includes a casino and is
surrounded by an artificial open-air marine habitat featuring
50,000 sea creatures, water slides and a marina “rivaling the
legendary marina of  Monte Carlo ,” according to the  site .  Resort Expansion  A $1 billion expansion begun in 2007 added hotels, a new
dolphin habitat and expanded the Aquaventure water park.  In September 2008, as the financial crisis deepened,
Kerzner opened a second Atlantis in the  Persian Gulf  on the
outer frond of Palm Jumeirah, Dubai’s man-made, tree-shaped
island. That development was built in partnership with Dubai
World, which now owns the entire resort.  Kerzner also runs seven One&Only resorts in countries
including  South Africa  and the Maldives, and the Mazagan Beach
Resort near Casablanca in  Morocco , with varied levels of
property ownership. Today’s deals don’t affect those resorts.  The 2008 financial crisis eroded resort values and room
rates, leaving Kerzner with too much debt as it continued to
expand. Competition is also increasing in the Bahamas. About six
miles from Atlantis, construction began last year on the $3.4
billion  Baha Mar  casino resort.  Atlantis Competition  Sarkis Izmirlian, whose family built More London in the
U.K., is developing the property over 400 hectares (988 acres)
of beachfront land, and will include hotels managed by  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H) , Morgans Hotel Group and Rosewood Hotels & Resorts.
Baha Mar is financed by the Export-Import Bank of  China  and is
being built by China State Construction & Engineering.  Brookfield, which owns office properties including  New York
City ’s World Financial Center towers, also took control of the
Hard Rock Hotel & Casino in  Las Vegas  in a restructuring last
year that converted its loan into equity.  The creditor case is Trilogy Portfolio Co. LLC et al, v.
Brookfield Real Estate Financial Partners LLC, CA7161, Delaware
Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  