-- KKR Profit Rises 4.6% on Gains in Private-Equity Holdings
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-04-27T21:08:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/kkr-profit-rises-4-6-on-gains-in-private-equity-holdings.html
KKR & Co. (KKR) , the private-equity firm
run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , said first-quarter
profit rose 4.6 percent, beating estimates as the carrying value
of its buyout holdings rose.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of profit
excluding some costs, increased to $683.8 million, or 99 cents a
share, from $653.8 million, or 96 cents, a year earlier, driven
by a 9 percent gain in private-equity investments,  New York- 
based KKR said in a statement today. Analysts had expected a
profit of 72 cents a share, according to the average of 12
 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “Some volatility is great for our business,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s head of global capital, said on a call with
reporters. “This is a period of time where we’re seeing
volatility but we’re also seeing quite a bit of activity.”  The value of the firm’s private-equity assets climbed as
stock markets increased early in the year. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index, a benchmark for U.S. equities, surged 12 percent this
year through March 30, its second straight quarterly gain.  KKR rose 2.5 percent to $14.40 at the close of trading in
 New York . The stock has gained 12 percent this year.  Fee-related earnings fell 42 percent as transaction and
monitoring fees declined, KKR said. Assets under management rose
5.6 percent to a record $62.3 billion, boosted by the increased
value of the investments.  Net Income Rises  Economic net income excludes some expenses tied to a
combination with KKR’s public fund that allowed the firm to list
its shares on the New York Stock Exchange in 2010. The measure
doesn’t comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Under those rules, KKR reported net income of $190.4
million, or 80 cents a share, compared with $159.6 million, or
75 cents, a year earlier.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest buyout company,
last week reported its net income rose 37 percent to $58.3
million. Like KKR, Blackstone says investors should focus on a
non-standard measure of profit that excludes some costs tied to
its IPO in 2007. By that measure, first-quarter profit fell 24
percent to $432.3 million as performance fees and investment
income declined.  KKR’s investment income advanced 6.3 percent to $657.1
million, while gross distributable earnings decreased 42 percent
to $111.5 million, driven by lower fee-related earnings. The
company will pay out 15 cents a share to stockholders in May.  LBOs Increase  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to use it to buy
companies within five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the transactions and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the first quarter dropped 41 percent to $53.7 billion from a
year earlier, with leveraged buyouts increasing 7 percent to
$22.1 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There was somewhat less activity this quarter than this
time last year in private equity, but a lot of activity
everywhere else,” Nuttall said. “The debt financing is
available; it’s just hard to predict how much is going to get
done. But the markets are open for the right deals.”  Nuttall said KKR isn’t planning any “imminent” IPOs for
its portfolio companies. Growth of the firm’s private-equity
portfolio isn’t expected to experience “meaningful” slowdown,
he said, because KKR’s exposure to risky European markets is
low.  Energy Deals  KKR and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-largest U.S.
natural-gas producer, partnered in March to buy mineral rights
and royalties from owners of oil and gas properties. KKR said it
will commit an initial $225 million toward the partnership, and
today said it invested $600 million in energy and infrastructure
in the first quarter.  “They like energy,” Nuttall said of the firm’s investors,
or limited partners. “It’s a theme that we’re seeing a lot of
interest across the energy spectrum.”  KKR during the quarter also appointed former Morgan Stanley
Chief Executive Officer  John Mack  as a senior adviser to the
firm. Mack joins a roster of former executives including
Caterpillar Inc. CEO James Owens and Bertelsmann AG’s former co-
chairman Richard Sarnoff in advising KKR on investments.  Mack will help “think strategically about where we want to
go next, how to help on the fundraising side and help us source
investments given his myriad of CEO relationships,” Nuttall
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  