-- Knicks Beat LeBron James’s Heat When Making Money Is Final Score
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/knicks-beat-lebron-james-s-heat-when-making-money-is-final-score.html
The  New York Knicks  will beat the
 Miami Heat  in the opening round of the National Basketball
Association playoffs if the measure of success is profit instead
of points.  The Knicks were one of eight profitable teams during the
2010-11 season, topping money-losers including LeBron James’s
Heat and the  Dallas Mavericks , who won the championship. NBA
teams lost a combined $300 million a year ago, the league said,
saying that’s a key reason why a more restrictive collective
bargaining agreement was necessary.  While the Knicks and owner Jim Dolan have made headlines
for management dysfunction with their sports properties, little
can keep the parent company,  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) , from
profitability, analysts who cover the New York-based company
said.  “If you don’t do anything stupid, you’re going to keep
making money,” Dan Medina, a research analyst with Needham &
Co., which has a “buy” rating on MSG and doesn’t own shares,
said in a telephone interview from his office in  San Francisco .
MSG was spun off from Cablevision Systems Corp.  The sports teams are a high-profile piece of MSG, which has
three main components: MSG Sports, which includes the Knicks,
hockey’s Rangers and their arena, Madison Square Garden; MSG
Media, which includes the MSG Network; and MSG Entertainment,
which includes Radio City  Music Hall , which hosts such New York
icons as the Christmas Spectacular and the Rockettes.  The sports teams have also been sources of embarrassment.
In 2007, the Knicks lost an $11.6 million sex harassment lawsuit
brought by a female executive. NBA Commissioner  David Stern  at
the time told ESPN that “it demonstrates that they’re not a
model of intelligent management.”  Playoffs Begin  The NBA playoffs begin after a regular season that was
trimmed to 66 games from the usual 82 because owners shut down
the league in a labor fight with the players union. The Knicks
open their postseason tomorrow in Miami against the Heat, which
reached the championship series last season.  The Rangers, meantime, defeated the Ottawa Senators 2-1 in
a deciding seventh game last night to reach the second round of
the playoffs for the first time since 2008. It’s the second
straight season both the Knicks and Rangers made the postseason.
Last year was the first time since 1997.  MSG shares have more than doubled since the company was
spun off from Cablevision Systems Corp. on Feb. 10, 2010. Shares
closed at $35.83 yesterday, up 1.1 percent, or 40 cents.  Sports Revenue  Much of MSG’s  financial  success comes from controlling the
revenue streams associated with the sports teams, Medina said.  MSG had $373 million in revenue in the quarter ended Dec.
31. Of that, $151 million came from the entertainment division,
$142 million from media and $89 million from sports, which was
hurt as the Knicks played fewer games because of the lockout,
Hank Ratner, MSG’s chief executive officer, said in a Feb. 8
conference call to discuss earnings.  “This integrated approach, along with our deep
relationships in the sports, media and entertainment industries,
and strong connection with our diverse and passionate audiences,
is what drives our growth and sets us apart in the industry,”
Ratner said in an e-mailed statement.  In the quarter that ended March 31, 2011, during the NBA
season, the sports division had revenue of about $158 million,
most among the three parts of the company.  Dodgers Sale  The possibility of owning a team, arena and network is one
reason why a group led by basketball hall-of-famer  Magic Johnson 
paid a record $2.15 billion for baseball’s  Los Angeles Dodgers .
The purchase was just as much about media and real estate as it
was baseball, sports bankers such as Rob Tilliss, founder of
Inner Circle Sports, have said.  “Controlling it all, they will in most cases find a way to
make money,” Medina said of MSG, which, he added, benefits from
having a fervent fan base in the nation’s No. 1 media market.  Just how much money the sports and media divisions make
depends on team performance. More wins usually mean more fans,
more concession revenue and more people watching on TV.  “Right now the teams are performing well,” Bob Gutkowski,
president of MSG from 1991-94, said in a telephone interview
from his office in  New York . “The network is performing well.
There’s nothing they can do at this particular point not to make
money.”  Jeremy Lin Effect  The sports and entertainment divisions got a boost this
season from the emergence of Harvard University graduate Jeremy Lin, an undrafted player of Taiwanese descent who drove interest
in the team after taking over as the starting point guard on Feb.
6 and sparking a six-game winning streak.  Lin, 23, not only led to the addition of Asia-based
sponsors, his popularity helped forge an agreement between MSG
and Time Warner Cable Inc., which wasn’t carrying MSG because of
a pricing dispute.  About the only thing that could crimp profit, Gutkowski
said, would be a prolonged slump from the Knicks and Rangers.
That would affect everything from sponsorship and attendance to
how much MSG can charge cable operators for its networks.  Heat spokesman Tim Donovan declined to comment on team
finances.  Susquehanna Financial Group analyst Vasily Karasyov, who
this month downgraded MSG to negative from neutral because
“fundamentals don’t support the current share price,” in a
telephone interview said even underperforming teams wouldn’t
keep MSG from making money. Winning teams, he said, allow for
larger price increases and advertising rates.  The Knicks this season raised season tickets by an average
49 percent amid what the company calls an almost $1 billion
transformation of the arena. Susquehanna is a market maker in
the securities of MSG.  “The changes of winning teams are small, positive and
incremental, but not life changing,” Karasyov said. “You can’t
ruin MSG.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  