-- Korean Won Climbs, Bonds Fall on IMF Forecast, Spain
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-27T06:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/korean-won-climbs-bonds-fall-on-imf-forecast-spain.html
South Korea ’s won finished its
biggest weekly gain in almost two months as data showed a pickup
in economic growth and widening current-account surplus.
 Government bonds  were little changed.  Gross domestic product rose the most in a year in the first
quarter, while the current-account  surplus  reached a four-month
high of $3 billion in March, according to central bank reports
released yesterday and today. U.S. figures released yesterday
showed home sales rose more than forecast in March, adding to
evidence of a recovery in the world’s biggest economy and
brightening the outlook for Korean exports. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said this week the central bank stands
ready to add more stimulus to the  U.S. economy  if needed.  “The overall atmosphere is positive for the won with
Bernanke’s comments still affecting markets and Korea’s current
account improving,” said Byeon Ji Young, a Seoul-based currency
analyst at Woori Futures Inc. A Standard & Poor’s downgrade of
Spain’s sovereign credit rating, announced yesterday, “won’t be
enough to weaken the won,” she added.  The won gained 0.4 percent this week to 1,135.10 per dollar
in Seoul, the biggest five-day gain since March 2, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency strengthened 0.1
percent today. One-month implied volatility for the won, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, fell 55
basis points, or 0.55 percentage point this week, to 7.48
percent.  South  Korea  may reach an agreement with  Japan  over a
“framework” for bond investments as early as next week,
Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan told reporters today. The
agreement is about sharing information and discussing with each
other debt investment plans, Bahk said. Japan’s Asahi newspaper
earlier reported Japan will buy Korean government bonds to
strengthen ties.  The yield on South Korea’s 3.25 percent bonds due December
2014 was unchanged for the week at 3.47 percent, Korea Exchange
Inc. prices show. It fell three basis points today. Three-year
debt futures rose to 104.20 from 104.16 and the one-year
interest-rate swap was little changed this week at 3.49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  