-- NBA Players’ Union Under Investigation by U.S. Attorney
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-27T18:37:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nba-players-union-under-investigation-by-u-s-attorney-1-.html
The  National Basketball Players
Association , already in turmoil after President  Derek Fisher 
asked for independent reviews of its finances and business
practices, is being investigated by the U.S. Attorney’s Office
in  Manhattan , the union said in a statement.  Union Executive Director  Billy Hunter  was notified of the
investigation by subpoena for documents on April 25, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the situation. The people
were granted anonymity because they weren’t authorized to
discuss the investigation.  “The NBPA will cooperate fully with the government’s
investigation,” the union statement said.  The association has appointed a six-member special
committee that consists of player representatives and executive
committee members to oversee an internal inquiry that will
include a financial audit. The statement didn’t say which
players would serve on the committee.  The committee has retained Theodore V. Wells, Jr. and the
 New York  law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison to
conduct the inquiry.  News of the investigation comes a week after the union’s
executive committee asked Fisher, an Oklahoma City Thunder
guard, to resign following his request for an audit and review
of how the organization runs its business. The committee, with
the support of Hunter, declined to conduct the reviews and two
days later voted unanimously to ask for Fisher’s resignation. He
refused.  Bloomberg News reported this week that the New York-based
union paid $4.8 million to Hunter’s family members and their
professional firms since 2001, according to public records.  Family Members  Hunter, 69, has a daughter and a daughter-in-law on staff
at the New York-based association. Another daughter is special
counsel at a  law firm  used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a
principal at a financial planning and investment firm that
advises the organization on investments and runs its financial
awareness program for players.  “The mere fact that there may be nepotism is not going to
in and of itself draw the interest of investigators,” William
Gould, an emeritus professor at  Stanford Law School  and a former
chairman of the  National Labor Relations Board , said in a
telephone interview.  Jamie Wior, a spokeswoman for Fisher, declined to comment.
Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said the office doesn’t confirm nor deny the existence
of investigations.  Leadership of the 450-member union, which agreed to a new
collective bargaining agreement with NBA owners in November, has
been roiled over Fisher’s demand for independent reviews.  Fisher’s Dispute  The executive committee first agreed with Fisher’s call for
an outside examination of the union. Hunter then met with the
committee via conference call and discussed his family’s role in
the union and the organization’s finances, said Washington
Wizards guard-forward Maurice Evans, a member of the group.
After it concluded, the committee asked for Fisher’s
resignation, saying he failed to uphold his duties as president.
Fisher didn’t participate in the call.  Fisher in an April 20 statement said he was “extremely
disappointed” with the executive committee.  Hunter is formerly the U.S. Attorney for the Northern
District of  California  and took over the union in 1996. Owners
shut down the league in labor disputes twice during his tenure,
in 1998 and last year, when players and owners reached an
impasse over a collective bargaining agreement.  The two sides agreed to a 10-year labor contract in
November, allowing for a Christmas Day start to a 66-game
season, down from the usual 82.  The playoffs begin tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 