-- NBA Players Association Gets Subpoena Amid Battle of Leaders
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-04-28T04:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nba-players-union-receives-subpoena-from-u-s-attorney-s-office.html
The U.S. government is giving
 National Basketball Players Association  President  Derek Fisher 
what his fellow union officials wouldn’t: a closer examination
of the organization’s finances and business practices.  The union said in a statement yesterday that it had
received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
 Manhattan . The association said it would cooperate with the
investigation, which arose after Fisher asked the nine-member
executive committee of the union headed by Executive Director
 Billy Hunter  to probe the organization’s business practices amid
reports of nepotism and conflicts of interest.  Hunter was notified of the investigation on April 25,
according to two people with direct knowledge of the situation.
The people were granted anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to discuss the investigation.  The association has appointed a six-member special
committee that consists of player representatives and executive
committee members to oversee an internal inquiry that will
include a financial audit. The statement didn’t say which
players would serve on the committee.  The executive committee has retained Theodore V. Wells, Jr.
and the  New York  law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton &
Garrison to conduct the inquiry. Hunter has recused himself from
the process, the statement said.  News of the investigation comes a week after the union’s
executive committee asked Fisher, an Oklahoma City Thunder
guard, to resign following his request for the reviews. The
committee, with the support of Hunter, declined to conduct the
reviews and two days later voted unanimously to ask for Fisher’s
resignation. He refused.  Bloomberg News reported this week that the New York-based
union has paid $4.8 million to Hunter’s family members and their
professional firms since 2001, according to public records.  Family Members  Hunter, 69, has a daughter and a daughter-in-law on staff
at the New York-based association. Another daughter is special
counsel at a  law firm  used by the union, and Hunter’s son is a
principal at a financial planning and investment firm that
advises the organization on investments and runs its financial
awareness program for players.  “The mere fact that there may be nepotism is not going to
in and of itself draw the interest of investigators,” William
Gould, an emeritus professor at  Stanford Law School  and a former
chairman of the  National Labor Relations Board , said in a
telephone interview.  Jamie Wior, a spokeswoman for Fisher, declined to comment.
Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara said the office doesn’t confirm or deny the existence of
investigations.  The executive committee is composed of Fisher, the  Boston
Celtics ’ Keyon Dooling; the  Miami Heat ’s James Jones; the San
Antonio Spurs’ Matt Bonner; the Washington Wizards’ Roger Mason
and Maurice Evans; the Los Angeles Clippers’  Chris Paul ; the  Los
Angeles Lakers ’ Theo Ratliff; and Etan Thomas, who isn’t on a
roster.  Leadership of the 450-member union, which agreed to a new
collective bargaining agreement with NBA owners in November, has
been roiled over Fisher’s demand for independent reviews.  Fisher’s Dispute  The executive committee first agreed with Fisher’s call for
an outside examination of the union. Hunter then met with the
committee via conference call and discussed his family’s role in
the union and the organization’s finances, Evans said. The
committee then asked for Fisher’s resignation, saying he failed
to uphold his duties as president. Fisher didn’t participate in
the call.  Fisher in an April 20 statement said he was “extremely
disappointed” with the executive committee.  Hunter is formerly the U.S. Attorney for the Northern
District of  California  and took over the union in 1996. Owners
shut down the league in labor disputes twice during his tenure,
in 1998 and last year, when players and owners reached an
impasse over a collective bargaining agreement.  The two sides agreed to a 10-year labor contract in
November, allowing for a Christmas Day start to a 66-game
season, down from the usual 82.  The playoffs begin today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 