-- New Jersey Overbilled Medicaid $61 Million, U.S. Audit Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-28T00:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/new-jersey-overbilled-medicaid-61-million-u-s-auditors-say.html
New Jersey  is being asked to pay
back $61 million in federal Medicaid reimbursements because the
state hasn’t documented whether some services claimed for
disabled people were provided, U.S. government auditors said.  The overbilling happened from 2005 to 2007 in a program
that provides home care for mentally and physically disabled
people so they don’t have to be institutionalized, auditors at
the Health and Human Services Department’s Office of Inspector
General said today in a  report . The state billed the federal
government $1.4 billion for the program during the period.  New Jersey and contractors it hired to provide the services
“did not ensure that they claimed reimbursement only for
documented, allowable” work, auditors said.  Work wasn’t documented for services such as respite care
that New Jersey said it delivered to some patients, auditors
said. The state also didn’t always follow federal procedures,
including regular assessments of patients’ disabilities,
according to the report.  The director of New Jersey’s Division of Medical Assistance
and Health Services, Valerie Harr, who runs the state’s Medicaid
program, asked auditors in October to recalculate what the state
owed after providing additional documents, according to the
report. Harr’s letter said that the state would owe $90 million.  New Jersey intends to contest the audit when it is reviewed
by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said Nicole
Brossoie, a spokeswoman for Harr’s division, in an e-mail.  “At that time, if the state remains opposed to the
outcome, it can petition the Departmental Appeals Board (DAB),”
she said. “If the conclusion still is not acceptable to the
state, the case can go to federal court.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  