-- Newark Airport Checkpoint Is Closed After Security Breach
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-04-27T23:15:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/newark-airport-checkpoint-is-closed-after-security-breach.html
A checkpoint at  New Jersey ’s Newark
Liberty International Airport reopened after a security breach
at 1:15 p.m. local time involving a baby who wasn’t properly
screened.  The incident occurred in Terminal C, where  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  operates flights, and passengers were
routed to other checkpoints for screening, said Sara Beth Joren,
a spokeswoman for the  Port Authority  of  New York  and New Jersey.
The checkpoint reopened about 90 minutes later, she said.  After a mother and baby triggered an alarm when passing
through a metal detector, the woman handed the child to the
father, who had already been screened, before she was checked,
Lisa Farbstein, a Transportation Security Administration
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “Since the baby was not properly screened, TSA officers
began to look for the family in the secure area of the
terminal,” Farbstein wrote.  Newark is a gateway for United’s international flights, and
together with its regional partners the company controls about
two-thirds of passenger traffic there.  “We’re holding about a dozen planes so we can accommodate
customers” who need extra time to get through security, said
Michael Trevino, a spokesman for United.  The Chicago-based carrier was formed through the 2010
merger of United’s parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines
Inc.  Pat Down  The Newark incident marked the second time in as many weeks
that TSA’s security procedures ensnared a small child.  A 4-year-old girl was singled out for a pat-down search on
April 15 after she went around an airport checkpoint in Wichita,
 Kansas , as her family were departing for Montana.  TSA agents said the daughter needed additional screening
because of the contact with her grandmother, who was awaiting a
pat down after triggering an alarm, the child’s mother, Michelle
Brademeyer, wrote in a public Facebook post. Agents wanted to
screen the girl alone in a separate room, upsetting her, then
cautioned the parents when the girl wouldn’t calm down,
according to Brademeyer.  Dennis Rehberg, Republican Representative of Montana,
summoned TSA officials to his office to discuss establishing
citizen advocates to help mediate airport screening disputes.
The agency has to “answer for making a 4-year-old cry,” he
said in a statement yesterday.  Senator Jon Tester, a  Montana  Democrat, on April 25 asked
the agency to account for the girl’s treatment.  The TSA said in a statement earlier this week the
additional screening was justified.  “It was explained to the family why the pat down was
needed,” Bob Burns, TSA’s official blogger, said in an April 24
 post . “We’ve reviewed the incident and determined that our
officers followed proper current screening procedures.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 