-- Nigerian Groups Want Minister Fired Over Fuel Subsidies
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-04-27T15:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nigerian-groups-want-minister-fired-over-fuel-subsidies.html
Nigerian labor unions and civic
groups want Petroleum Minister Diezani Alison-Madueke to be
fired after a parliamentary probe found the government made
illegal payments of about 1.1 trillion naira ($7 billion) for
fuel subsidies.  The subsidies, which President Goodluck Jonathan partially
removed in January, were “fraught with endemic corruption and
entrenched inefficiency” from 2009 to 2011, a  House of
Representatives  committee said in a report that lawmakers
approved on April 25 in Abuja, the capital.  Levi Ajuonuma , a
Petroleum Ministry spokesman, didn’t respond to three calls to
his mobile phone today and a text message seeking comment.  Nigeria fixes gasoline prices by subsidizing oil importers
such as state-owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. and  Total
Nigeria Plc (TOTAL) , because  Africa ’s largest oil-producing nation
doesn’t have the refining capacity to meet domestic needs. Fuel
subsidies amounted to 2.5 trillion naira in 2011, about 56
percent of the budget.  Alison-Madueke should resign or Jonathan should fire her,
and “the federal government should investigate who is lying and
who is not,”  Owei Lakemfa , secretary-general of the Nigeria
Labour Congress, the country’s biggest trade union federation,
said in a phone interview from Abuja on April 25. If Jonathan
“is interested in fighting corruption, that’s what he should do
immediately.”  ‘Depth of Fraud’  According to the parliamentary report, more than 10
companies obtained foreign currency under the subsidy program
and didn’t use the funds to import gasoline. The state Petroleum
Products Pricing Regulatory Agency gave approvals to 35
companies to import products before they were formally
registered with the agency, the committee said.  NNPC received 310.4 billion naira in subsidies for
kerosene, which is deregulated and shouldn’t attract state
payments, and 285.1 billion naira in excess of the amount
recommended by the PPPRA for 2011, the committee said. The
regulatory agency paid itself 312.3 billion naira in excess of
approved administrative charges in 2009 and 2010, it said.  “The amounts uncovered are big enough to allow both
increased spending on infrastructure and improve fiscal savings
and foreign-exchange reserves, all of which would be positive
for creditworthiness,” Richard Fox, a senior director of
Sovereigns at  Fitch Ratings , said in an e-mailed statement
today. “A key test will be the penalties suffered by
perpetrators and what is done to make the system more
transparent.”  Prosecutions Sought  The petroleum minister should quit, “given the depth of
fraud uncovered,” Yemi Adamolekun, a spokeswoman for  Enough is
Enough , a civic coalition that led protests against higher fuel
prices, said in a phone interview yesterday.  Lawmakers, when approving the report, called for the
prosecution of officials who oversaw the payments. The committee
was led by Farouk Lawan, a lawmaker from the northern Kano state
and a member of Jonathan’s People’s  Democratic Party .  The committee recommended the overhaul of NNPC’s management
and board and the prosecution of those involved in illegal
activities. Alison-Madueke is the chairwoman of the board of the
company, the biggest gasoline importer in the country. The
committee also recommended Finance Ministry officials involved
in extra-budgetary spending from 2009 to 2011 be sanctioned.  Looking to President  “I’ll be surprised if nobody resigned,”  Peter Esele ,
president of the Trade Union Congress, said in a phone interview
from Abuja on April 25. “Everyone is looking at how the
president will handle this matter.”  Jonathan’s attempt to scrap the subsidy on Jan. 1 sparked a
week of strikes and protests, forcing the government to
partially reinstate it, raising the gasoline price to 97 naira a
liter from 65 naira. Labor unions and activists who opposed the
fuel-subsidy removal said the government should fix oil
refineries and tackle corruption before raising costs for
Nigerians, 61 percent of whom live on less than $1 a day.  “If the president is able to take action on some of these
recommendations following expected amendments by the Senate, we
feel it would go a long way to boosting the president’s anti-
corruption campaign,” economists led by Guy Czartoryski at
London-based CSL Stockbrokers Ltd. said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  