-- Nigeria Extends Closing of Tender to Sell Crude for One Year
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-04-27T13:49:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nigeria-extends-closing-of-tender-to-sell-crude-for-one-year-1-.html
Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.
said it extended the closing date and amended terms for bids in
its tender to sell crude oil for one year starting from June.  NNPC, as the state-run company is known, will accept bids
until May 11, it said today in an e-mailed statement, compared
with a previous close of April 5. NNPC didn’t disclose the
amount or type of crude being offered for sale.  The company also relaxed conditions on potential buyers,
requiring them to have a minimum annual revenue of $500 million
and a net worth of at least $100 million, compared with earlier
thresholds of $600 million and $300 million, respectively.
Buyers are also now required to include a plan in their bids
that include insurance and legal, banking and finance as well as
cargo inspection that will be subcontracted to Nigerian firms.  Successful bidders must show commitment to develop the
economy of Africa’s most populous nation with more than 160
million people by investing in industries including oil
exploration, refineries, power plants, solid minerals and
agriculture, according to the statement.  All tenders received before the earlier close of April 5
remain valid, NNPC said. Buyers who want to change their bids in
line with the new terms can do so, according to the statement.  Nigeria is Africa’s top crude producer and the fifth-
biggest source of U.S. imports. At least 90 percent of the
country’s oil is pumped by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Total SA (FP)  and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures
with the NNPC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  