-- Nintendo Falls After Profit Forecast Misses Estimates
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-04-27T06:39:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nintendo-falls-after-net-forecast-lags-estimates-osaka-mover.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s largest
maker of video-game machines, declined the most in seven months
in  Osaka  trading after forecasting profit that lagged behind
analyst estimates.  Nintendo  tumbled  5.6 percent, the most since Sept. 28, to
10,900 yen on the Osaka Securities Exchange.  Net income  may
total 20 billion yen ($246 million) for the year ending March 31,
Nintendo said yesterday. That compared with the 32.9 billion-yen
average of 20 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The
company’s forecasts for sales and operating profit also missed
estimates.  The creator of “Super Mario” predicts a 37 percent jump
in sales of its 3DS handheld model, and the introduction of the
Wii U console, will drive a return to profit.  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
gaining in clout in the games business with its iPhone and iPad,
reported a 94 percent jump in quarterly profit this week while
Nintendo is recovering from its first annual loss since it was
listed in 1962.  “There’s a risk Nintendo’s earnings may worsen this fiscal
year,” Hideki Yasuda, an analyst at Ace Securities Co. in Tokyo,
said yesterday by phone. “The Wii U is the key, and it’s hard
to judge with limited information on the machine available.”  Nintendo expects to sell 10.5 million units of the Wii and
Wii U this fiscal year, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said in a
statement. The new console may account for 7 million of the
total, Yasuda said. Nintendo plans to sell 18.5 million units of
the 3DS this fiscal year, it said.  Digital Downloads  The company will begin digital distribution of software
from August, starting with “New Super Mario Bros. 2,”
President Satoru Iwata  said  today at a briefing in  Tokyo .
Customers can go to Nintendo’s eShop to download the software or
visit retailers to pay to get the software exchange code, he
said.  “We can maintain a win-win relationship with retailers,”
Iwata said. The stores can reduce a risk of holding excess
inventory and avoid opportunity loss when there’s a surge in
demand, he said. Retailers can set prices, he said.  The net loss for the year ended March was 43.2 billion yen,
compared with analysts’ estimate for a 58.1 billion-yen loss. It
was the first loss since Nintendo went public, Senior Managing
Director Yoshihiro Mori told reporters in Osaka yesterday.  “What went wrong was that sales of the 3DS didn’t take off
as we expected,” Iwata said yesterday. “The stronger yen
against the euro was also another reason.”  Operating Profit  A strengthening of the yen against foreign currencies cuts
the value of Nintendo’s overseas earnings when repatriated. The
company gets about 39 percent of sales from the Americas and 34
percent from  Europe , according to Nintendo.  Retail sales of packaged video games have fallen sharply
for about two years as consumers download games to play on
smartphones and social networks such as Facebook Inc., according
to NPD, a research company in  Port Washington ,  New York .  Nintendo’s  operating profit , or sales minus the cost of
goods sold and selling, general and administrative expenses, may
total 35 billion yen this fiscal year, compared with a loss of
37.3 billion yen the previous 12 months, the company said. That
missed the 42.2 billion yen average of analyst estimates.  Sales may rise to 820 billion yen from 647.7 billion yen,
Nintendo said. Analysts had expected 842.8 billion yen.  Wii U  The company plans to introduce the 3DS in  South Korea  this
week and in other Asian markets this fiscal year, Iwata said
yesterday. It plans to start selling the Wii U in time for this
year’s holiday shopping season.  The Wii U’s centerpiece is a 6.2-inch touch-screen
controller, roughly the size of a tablet computer, that lets
users wirelessly connect to the console and shift content
between a TV and the device, according to Nintendo. The machine
will be equipped with a wireless credit-card reader to
facilitate online shopping and downloads of new game levels.  “The Wii U isn’t just a revamp,” Iwata said. “We can
only explain the innovative part of the machine when we unveil
it” in June, he said.  The company will also offer “several killer software”
features, Iwata said. Popular titles are needed to drive sales,
a lesson the company learned when it was compelled to cut 3DS
prices to revive demand, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  