-- NIS Refiner Net Income Falls 15% on Weaker Serbian Dinar
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-04-27T13:38:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nis-refiner-net-income-falls-15-on-weaker-serbian-dinar-1-.html
Naftna Industrija Srbije AD (NIIS) , the
Serbian oil and company controlled by Russia’s  OAO Gazprom Neft (GAZP) ,
said first-quarter profit dropped 15 percent as the dinar
weakened against the euro.  Net income fell to 8.4 billion dinars ($100 million) in the
three months through March, Chief Financial Officer Alexey Urusov Alexey Urusov said in Belgrade today. Earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization almost doubled to
15.5 billion dinars. Sales rose 24 percent to 45.6 billion
dinars even as the Serbian fuel market shrank 7 percent when
heavy snow impeded traffic in January and February.  “We did not increase our retail prices as much as the cost
of imported crude went up” in the period, Urusov said. NIS, the
biggest company on the  Belgrade Stock Exchange , imports most of
the crude it processes at its two refineries, in Pancevo and in
Novi Sad.  Oil and gas output rose 15 percent to 413,000 tons of oil
equivalent, he said. The company tripled investments in the
period to 7.7 billion dinars, while debt fell to $444 million at
the end of March from $446 million at the end of December.  “The growth of Ebitda is very positive,” said Ivan
Dzakovic, head of research and analysis at Sinteza Invest Group,
a Belgrade-based brokerage. “With the price-to-Ebitda ratio now
at 1.92, NIS is very cheap.”  Dinar Effect  A year earlier, net earnings of 9.8 billion dinars included
a positive currency effect of 4.6 billion dinars, whereas the
negative effect in the latest quarter was around 4 billion
dinars.  Operating cash flow deteriorated 95 percent as the company
faced delays in payments from clients such as Srbijagas,
 Serbia ’s national, state-run gas company and Elektroprivreda
Srbije, the power producer.  Srbijagas owed 8 billion dinars to NIS at the end of March,
or 3 billion dinars more than at the end of 2011, while the
EPS’s debt rose by 2 billion dinars, Urusov said without
providing the total owed by the latter.  “The final result could be worse in the end if NIS
eventually has to write off some of the claims,” Dzakovic said.  NIS  share  traded at 655 dinars today, 0.76 percent down
from yesterday’s close.  Urusov reiterated that a 550 million euro upgrade of the
main, Pancevo refinery will be completed in the third quarter,
with fuel production expected in November. The other refinery,
in Novi Sad, is used mostly for making base oils and lubricants.  NIS, which operates gas and oil fields in Serbia and
 Angola , signed an agreement last year with  Austria ’s Rohoel
Aufsuchungs AG for joint exploration in neighboring  Hungary .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ; Ladka Bauerova at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  