-- Nobel Biocare Rises as First-Quarter Profit Tops Estimates
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-04-27T15:39:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nobel-biocare-first-quarter-profit-improves-on-north-america-1-.html
Nobel Biocare Holding AG (NOBN) , the
world’s second-biggest dental implant maker, reported first-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates, helped by currency
effects in  North America  and  Asia .  Earnings before interest and tax climbed to 20.8 million
euros ($27.4 million) from 19 million euros excluding one-time
items a year earlier, the Glattbrugg, Switzerland based-company
said in a statement today. Analysts had expected Ebit of 17.5
million euros, according to the average of 12  estimates  in a
Bloomberg survey.  Nobel Biocare still expects Ebit this year will be in line
with 2011 and the company aims for “modest” revenue growth at
constant exchange rates, the company said. While sales grew in
the Americas and Asia, revenue declined in  Europe , the  Middle
East  and Africa, partly because of economic conditions in  Italy 
and  Spain . Nobel Biocare is retraining its sales force to sell a
broader range of products and investing in product development.  “We are not yet satisfied with our performance, but we are
making significant progress in driving our strategy to improve
our customers’ experience with Nobel Biocare,” Chief Executive
Officer Richard Laube said in the statement. He joined the
company last year, after leading  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s nutrition unit.  The stock gained 4.2 percent to 11.15 Swiss francs at the
close of Zurich trading, giving the company a market value of
1.38 billion francs ($1.52 billion).  Exceeding Expectations  “It’s one of the quarters where Nobel Biocare exceeded
expectations for profit, which they used to miss regularly,”
said Khon Quang, an analyst with Jefferies International Ltd.
Nobel Biocare’s margin was 2.5 percentage points above his
estimate. “We believe the stock is trading on the positive
margin beat relative to expectations.”  Net income increased to 13.7 million euros from 12.9
million euros a year earlier, beating the 13.1 million-euro
average estimate of 10 analysts. Sales rose to 147.6 million
euros from 143.5 million euros a year earlier. Analysts had
estimated sales of 147.1 million euros.  “It’s slightly positive,” Oliver Metzger, an analyst with
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said by phone today. “I had
expected a more negative surprise in Europe and a better result
in North America.”  Straumann AG (STMN) , the world’s biggest dental implant maker
based on 2011 sales, yesterday reported a 14 percent increase in
North American sales in local currency during the quarter. Both
companies expect the market to grow by a low single-digit
percentage this year.  Nobel Biocare has lost market share and has had three CEOs
since 2007. Analysts have speculated in the past year that the
company may be a takeover target because of its sinking stock
price and restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 