-- Nomura Profit Beats Estimates as Daiwa Rebounds on Trading
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-27T09:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nomura-quarterly-profit-beats-estimates-as-trading-income-rises.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s quarterly
net income rose 86 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, and
 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601)  returned to profit as gains from
trading outweighed declines in investment banking.  Net income climbed to 22.1 billion yen ($273 million) for
the three months ended March 31 from 11.9 billion yen a year
earlier, Nomura said in  Tokyo  today. The average estimate of
nine analysts surveyed was for 14.4 billion yen profit.  The second straight gain in quarterly profit for Nomura may
help to assure investors that earnings will keep rebounding as
 Japan ’s biggest brokerage implements a plan to cut $1.2 billion
of expenses. Nomura’s world rankings for managing bond sales and
advising on takeovers climbed in the quarter, while a decline in
global equity offerings hampered fees.  “It’s encouraging to see the results were better than
estimates and that trading business is becoming more
sustainable,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600
million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. “It
remains to be seen if Nomura can continue to boost profit given
the uncertainty in the market.”  Daiwa, Japan’s second-largest brokerage, swung to a profit
of 10.9 billion yen for the quarter from a loss of 33.1 billion
yen a year earlier, led by trading. That missed the 18.7 billion
yen average estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Shares of Daiwa fell 2.3 percent to 304 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo today before the earnings were announced.
Nomura declined 1.8 percent to 330 yen.  Stock Revival  Nomura has  gained  about 47 percent since reaching the
lowest in at least 37 years on Nov. 24, on speculation that the
firm’s prospects will improve as the Japanese economy rebuilds
from last year’s earthquake and markets recover worldwide.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,  Australia ’s biggest investment bank,
today forecast an earnings revival after a slump in trading
income and dealmaking fees dragged full-year net income to an
eight-year low of A$730 million ($757 million). The trading
rebound last quarter helped U.S. firms including Bank of America
Corp. post earnings that beat analysts’ estimates.  Revenue at Tokyo-based Nomura rose to 565.4 billion yen for
the quarter from 365 billion yen a year earlier. Trading profit
climbed to 98.9 billion yen from 68.7 billion yen.  Nomura’s  investment banking fees  fell to 14.8 billion yen
in the three months ended March from 27.8 billion yen a year
earlier. Brokerage commissions dropped to 90.4 billion yen from
103.8 billion yen.  Trading Income  Trading profit at Tokyo-based Daiwa rose to 29.7 billion
yen from 16 billion yen a year earlier. Brokerage commissions
dropped to 11.8 billion yen from 15.2 billion yen. Underwriting
fees slid to 2.8 billion yen from 8.9 billion yen.  Japan’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  climbed 19
percent last quarter, its best start to a calendar year since
1988. It has since lost 5.8 percent. The world’s third-largest
economy probably resumed growing in the quarter from a
contraction in the final three months of 2011, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Nomura made inroads toward its cost-cutting plan in the
past six months, trimming the number of employees by 1,302 to
34,395 worldwide as of March 31, with most of the reductions
coming from Japan and Europe. The firm tripled the expense goal
to $1.2 billion after posting a 46.1 billion yen loss in the
quarter ended September, its first since the start of 2009.  Cost Plan Progress  The cost-reduction program “is progressing as planned,”
Chief Executive Kenichi Watanabe said in a statement today. “We
continue to reduce risk assets and strengthen our risk
management to position the firm for the new regulatory
environment.”  Nomura’s labor costs swelled after it bought bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s Asian and European businesses in
2008 -- an expansion effort that has yet to pay off. The
Japanese firm continued to lose money abroad last quarter, with
pretax losses from overseas more than doubling to 24.6 billion
yen from 9.7 billion yen a year earlier. In  Europe  alone, pretax
loss totaled 23.3 billion yen.  Daiwa is also paring costs, saying in January that it will
eliminate 200 positions abroad on top of 300 cuts announced in
October as it seeks to stem losses in Europe and  Asia .  Watanabe revamped Nomura’s trading operations last quarter
by splitting the global markets unit into fixed-income and
equity businesses. He appointed  Steve Ashley  as global head of
fixed income in January following the resignations of two
bankers, including former global markets chief Tarun Jotwani.  Rankings Improve  The firm has hired traders in the U.S., Europe and the
 Middle East , including head of Treasury trading J.J. Lando, who
joined from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last year as a managing
director in  New York .  While Nomura lifted its rankings for advising on global
mergers and managing bond sales last quarter,  investment banking 
fees have been curtailed by companies issuing fewer shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Global equity offerings
fell 26 percent in the three months from a year earlier, the
data show. In Japan, share sales declined 58 percent.  Nomura was No. 10 underwriter for global equity sales in
the three months, arranging 19 transactions valued at $2.9
billion, maintaining its position from a year earlier when it
managed 25 deals worth $7.1 billion, according to Bloomberg data.  Its ranking for international bond underwriting climbed
three spots to 26th. On mergers and acquisitions, Nomura was No.
8 global adviser for the quarter, up from 14th a year earlier.  “Profitability in market-related business recovered, and
it obtained more global investment banking deals in the
quarter,” said Kouichi Niwa, a senior analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Nomura has set the stage for
rejuvenating profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  