-- Nomura Says Job Cuts to Ease as Profit Grows for Second Quarter
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-04-27T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/nomura-says-job-cuts-to-ease-as-profit-grows-for-second-quarter.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,  Japan ’s
biggest brokerage, said it will ease the pace of job cuts after
efforts to trim costs, including eliminating 1,300 positions,
helped profit climb in each of the past two quarters.  “We do not foresee any substantial reduction in
headcount,”  Jonathan Lewis , co-deputy chief financial officer,
said in a phone interview from  London  yesterday after Nomura
posted quarterly profit that rose 86 percent from a year earlier.
“We are broadly comfortable with our headcount level but will
always look to adjust costs in light of market conditions.”  Net income climbed to 22.1 billion yen ($273 million) in
the three months ended March, beating analysts’ estimates as
gains from trading outweighed declines in investment banking.
Chief Executive Kenichi Watanabe said the Tokyo-based company’s
$1.2 billion cost-cutting program is “progressing as planned.”  “Nomura may need to work harder on restructuring as it
still employs a huge number of people globally,” said  Fumiyuki Nakanishi , a strategist at Tokyo-based SMBC Friend Securities Co.
The firm should allocate resources to areas such as advising
Japanese companies seeking takeovers abroad, while paring
unprofitable operations including those in  Europe , he said.  Since the end of September, Nomura has cut the number of
employees worldwide by 1,302 to 34,395 as of March 31, with most
of the reductions coming from Japan and Europe, company figures
showed yesterday. Staff numbers are still 34 percent higher than
they were in March 2009, following Nomura’s purchase of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s operations in  Asia  and Europe.  Macquarie’s Outlook  Nomura isn’t the only investment bank in the region that’s
relying on cost cuts to revive earnings.  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) ,
 Australia ’s largest investment bank, said yesterday that profit
at all units in the year to March 2013 will either improve or
remain steady as expenses fall. Macquarie shaved operating costs
by 8 percent and jobs by 1,354 in the year ended March 31,
taking the workforce to 14,202.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Nomura’s biggest domestic
rival, is also paring costs, saying in January that it will
eliminate 200 positions abroad on top of 300 cuts announced in
October as it seeks to stem losses in Europe and Asia.  Daiwa posted improved earnings yesterday, returning to a
profit of 10.9 billion yen for the fiscal fourth quarter from a
loss of 33.1 billion yen a year earlier, led by trading income.
The results still missed the 18.7 billion yen average estimate
of five analysts as fees and brokerage commissions dropped.  Shares of Daiwa fell 2.3 percent to 304 yen at the close of
trading in Tokyo yesterday before the earnings were announced.
Nomura declined 1.8 percent to 330 yen.  Economy Rebuilds  Nomura shares have  gained  47 percent since reaching the
lowest in at least 37 years on Nov. 24, on speculation that the
firm’s prospects will improve as the Japanese economy rebuilds
from last year’s earthquake and markets recover worldwide.  Revenue at Tokyo-based Nomura rose 55 percent last quarter
from a year earlier to 565.4 billion yen, the company said.
Trading profit climbed 44 percent to 98.9 billion yen.
 Investment banking  fees fell 47 percent to 14.8 billion yen and
brokerage commissions dropped 13 percent to 90.4 billion yen.  Labor costs at Nomura swelled after it bought the Lehman
Brothers businesses -- an expansion effort that has yet to pay
off. The Japanese firm continued to lose money abroad last
quarter, with pretax losses from overseas more than doubling to
24.6 billion yen from 9.7 billion yen a year earlier. In Europe
alone, pretax loss totaled 23.3 billion yen  Moody’s Downgrade  Moody’s Investors Service cut Nomura’s  debt rating  to the
lowest investment grade on March 15, saying global competition
raises questions over its profitability. Daiwa was lowered to
the same grade, Baa3, in November.  Nomura showed an ability to compete in investment banking
last quarter, as it rose in the world rankings for managing bond
sales and advising on takeovers. The company was ranked No. 8
global adviser for the quarter, up from 14th a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. For international bond
underwriting, it climbed three spots to 26th. Nomura remained at
No. 10 among managers of global equity sales.  “Profitability in market-related business recovered, and
it obtained more global investment banking deals in the
quarter,” said Kouichi Niwa, a senior analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. in  Tokyo . “Nomura has set the stage for
rejuvenating profitability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  