-- Obama Moves to End Deceptive School Recruiting of Veterans
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-04-27T17:20:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/obama-moves-to-end-deceptive-recruiting-of-veterans-by-schools.html
President  Barack Obama , calling the
recruiting tactics of some schools trying sign up veterans
“appalling,” signed an order requiring more financial
disclosure to protect military members and their families.  The order will limit recruiters’ access to military
facilities and require schools to provide financial aid options.
The government will also seek to halt improper use on websites
of the term “GI Bill,” referring to the educational benefit
program for veterans.  “Sometimes you’re dealing with folks who aren’t interested
in helping you,” Obama told veterans, soldiers and their
families at Fort Stewart in Hinesville, Georgia, home of the
U.S. Army’s 3rd Infantry Division. “They don’t care about you,
they care about the cash.”  The Obama administration said some for-profit and non-
profit schools recruit veterans with brain injuries, offering
them limited academic support and encouraging service members
and their families to take out expensive loans rather than
directing them to less expensive federal student aid.  The policy isn’t designed to single out any category of
schools, according to an administration official who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity last night. Still, much of
the deceptive recruiting reported since 2001 has been carried
out by for-profit schools, the official said.  Veterans’ Unemployment  Tens of thousands of U.S. veterans of Iraq and  Afghanistan 
are struggling with the transition to civilian life. The jobless
rate for veterans who have served since the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks was 12.1 percent last year, according to a report by the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. That compares with an overall
U.S.  unemployment rate  of 8.2 percent in March.  The president’s trip to Fort Stewart comes as he’s pressing
Congress to freeze rates on certain  student loans . He threatened
to veto legislation passed this afternoon by the Republican-
controlled House to pay for the freeze using public health
funds.  While today’s trip was categorized as official business by
the White House, Obama also is pivoting toward his re-election
campaign with rallies planned in the battleground states of Ohio
and  Virginia  next week.  Obama lost  Georgia  to Republican rival Arizona Senator  John McCain  by 5 percentage points in 2008. While Georgia has 16 of
the 270 electoral votes needed to win, a message that Obama
cares about veterans resonates beyond the state, analysts said.  ‘Strong’ on Security  “It’s in the Democrats’ interest to do this even if
they’re not going to generate a lot of military voters, because
after 9/11 you have to show that you’re strong on national
security,” said Peter Feaver, a political science professor at
 Duke University  in Durham,  North Carolina , who worked on the
National Security Council under Presidents  Bill Clinton  and
 George W. Bush . “The electorate as a whole, not just the
military voter, wants this.”  Before speaking, the president and first lady  Michelle Obama  strolled along a Fort Stewart’s Warrior Walk, which pays
tribute to the 441 members of the service attached to the 3rd
Infantry Division, Fort Stewart of Hunter Army Airfield who died
in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.  Tuition Assistance  Under the order, students who take part in the Defense
Department’s Tuition Assistance program must be given a “Know
Before You Owe” form, created by the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and the Department of Education, that outlines
tuition and federal financial aid information.  The order also directs the registration of the term GI Bill
so that websites can’t use it inappropriately to lure veterans,
and it calls for the creation of a central clearinghouse for
complaints.  Democrats have proposed legislation in the House and Senate
to curb what sponsors of the measures call the aggressive
marketing to veterans and service members of subpar academic
programs by for-profit colleges.  For-profit colleges such as  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) ’s University
of Phoenix can get as much as 90 percent of their revenue from
federal financial aid programs. Schools solicit troops partly
because their government tuition programs are excluded from that
cap.  Eight for-profit college companies received about $626
million in veterans’ education benefits in the most recent
academic year, the Senate education committee, headed by Iowa
Democrat Tom Harkin, said in a November report. They include the
University of Phoenix, the largest chain by enrollment, and
Pittsburgh-based  Education Management Corp. (EDMC) , the second-biggest.  For-Profit Colleges  The 15 largest for-profit colleges spent a combined $3.7
billion, or 23 percent of their fiscal 2009 budgets, on
advertising, marketing and recruiting, according to a summary of
legislation proposed in the Senate earlier this month by Harkin
and Democrat  Kay Hagan  of North Carolina.  The president’s re-election campaign has a veterans and
military family outreach program that is made up of almost
11,000 veterans and military family member volunteers.  “You haven’t heard a Democratic president talk in such
glowing or laudatory terms about military service probably in
two generations since Truman,” said Richard Kohn, a professor
emeritus of military history at the University of North Carolina
at  Chapel Hill .  So far the Joining Forces initiative has led to more than
50,000 veterans and military spouses being hired by U.S.
businesses and pledges from businesses to hire at least 160,000
more in the future. Participating companies include  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)   The campaign is also working to better train doctors and
nurses who treat military veterans suffering from combat trauma,
including post-traumatic stress Disorder, and efforts to make it
easier for military spouses to transfer professional licenses
from state to state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  