-- Obama Push for Trade Accord on Agenda for Japan’s Noda Next Week
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-04-27T21:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/obama-push-for-trade-accord-on-agenda-for-japan-s-noda-next-week.html
President Barack Obama and Japan’s
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  won’t be ready to announce a
breakthrough on Japan joining a Pacific trade agreement, a top
issue on the agenda for their White House meeting on April 30,
an administration official said.  Along with trade and the global economy, the two leaders
will discuss the realignment of U.S. forces in  Asia , the
standoff with North Korea and negotiations with Iran over its
nuclear program, according to the official, who briefed
reporters on condition of anonymity under ground rules set by
the White House.  Obama and Noda will hold a news conference after their
meeting, which will be the third between the leaders.  The Obama administration is seeking to complete
negotiations this year on the nine-nation trade accord known as
the Trans-Pacific Partnership.  Japan , the world’s third-largest economy, along with Canada
and Mexico has expressed interest in joining the talks among the
U.S., Australia, Chile, Peru,  Singapore , Malaysia,  New Zealand ,
Vietnam and Brunei. It would be the biggest U.S. trade deal
since the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement.  Two-Way Trade  Two-way trade between the U.S. and Japan totaled $181
billion in 2010, compared with $171 billion in U.S. trade with
the eight other nations already in the talks, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department.  Japan and the U.S. yesterday announced an agreement to
relocate about 9,000 Marines from Okinawa, reducing a source of
bilateral friction. The countries haven’t worked out the
relocation of 10,000 U.S. Marines remaining on Okinawa.  While there won’t be a state dinner for Noda at the White
House, Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will hold a dinner in
his honor, the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  