-- Oil Advances in Last Hour of Trading, Reversing Decline
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-27T19:30:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/oil-fluctuates-as-u-s-economy-expands-spending-gains.html
Oil rose to the highest level in
more than three weeks in  New York  as the biggest gain in U.S.
consumer spending in more than a year and better-than-projected
earnings overshadowed lower-than-forecast economic growth.  Futures climbed 0.4 percent after the Commerce Department
said household purchases increased 2.9 percent, exceeding the
most optimistic projection by economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Gross domestic product grew at a 2.2 percent annual rate,
missing the 2.5 percent projection. Equities increased after
Amazon.com Inc. posted earnings per share that quadrupled.  “The market has shrugged off some of the negative news and
is closing higher,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant. “The
government data is being interpreted as modestly positive and
corporate profits have been healthy.”  Crude oil for June delivery climbed 38 cents to $104.93 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since April 2. Futures gained 1.8 percent this week
and have increased 6.2 percent this year.  Brent oil for June settlement slipped 9 cents to end the
session at $119.83 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
 Europe  exchange.  The rise in U.S.  household consumption  followed a 2.1
percent gain in the prior quarter and exceeded the 2.3 percent
median forecast in the Bloomberg survey. Purchases added 2
percentage points to growth.  GDP expansion slowed from a 3 percent pace in the fourth
quarter. Corporate spending on equipment and software climbed at
a 1.7 percent pace, the weakest level in almost three years,
after advancing at a 7.5 percent rate in the previous quarter.  Credit Rating  Spain ’s sovereign credit rating was cut for the second time
this year by  Standard & Poor’s . Spanish debt was reduced to BBB+
from A, with a negative outlook. The country’s short-term rating
was reduced to A-2 from A-1, New York- based S&P said in a
statement yesterday.  The European sovereign debt crisis that began in  Greece  and
then moved to Ireland,  Portugal ,  Italy  and Spain has reduced
economic growth in the euro region.  “With a 2.2 percent GDP in the U.S. and Europe slowing
down, it’s difficult to make a case for $110, $115 crude oil,”
said  James Cordier , portfolio manager at OptionSellers.com in
Tampa,  Florida .  The countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent
of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. was the biggest crude user,
responsible for 21 percent of world consumption.  OPEC Production  Oil output in April by the  Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries  climbed to the highest level in more than
three years, a Bloomberg survey showed. Production increased
305,000 barrels, or 1 percent, to an average 31.405 million
barrels a day from a revised 31.1 million in March, according to
the survey of  oil companies , producers and analysts. Output rose
to the highest level since October 2008.  Saudi Arabia , OPEC’s biggest producer, bolstered output by
115,000 barrels a day to 9.82 million this month. The gain left
production at the highest level since August.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 290,144
contracts as of 3:30 p.m. Volume totaled 417,413 contracts
yesterday, the sixth straight day under 600,000 and 33 percent
below the three-month average. Open interest was 1.56 million.  “Volume has dried up recently because crude is trading in
a range, getting tighter and tighter, and that’s going to cause
traders to seek other action because they want to participate in
a market that is moving,” Cordier said.  Oil in New York has traded from $100.68 to $105.49 a barrel
this month.  Prices may decrease next week on lower euro-region
confidence and signs the U.S. is struggling to address
unemployment levels, a Bloomberg survey showed. Sixteen of 37
analysts and traders surveyed forecast oil will drop through May
4. Twelve respondents predicted futures will rise and nine
estimated there will be little change.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  