-- Crude Oil Futures Fall as Spain Cut Renews Demand Concern
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-04-27T12:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/oil-falls-from-four-week-high-as-spain-cut-renews-demand-concern.html
Oil fell from the highest level in
almost four weeks in New York, trimming a second weekly gain,
after a cut in  Spain ’s credit rating renewed concern that
 Europe ’s faltering economy may curb fuel demand.  Futures slipped as much as 0.8 percent after New York-based
Standard & Poor’s reduced Spain’s rating to BBB+ from A and said
the nation may have to provide fiscal support to the banking
sector as the economy contracts. Prices also dropped after
reaching technical resistance. West Texas Intermediate crude may
decline next week after economic confidence in the euro-region
fell and the  U.S. economy  grew less than forecast, a Bloomberg
News survey showed.  “The economic outlook is a little bit worse than some
months ago because of the big risk in the  euro zone ,” said
Sintje Boie, an analyst at  HSH Nordbank  in Hamburg who predicts
prices will remain near their current levels until the middle of
the year. “It’s more the geopolitical risk that’s holding
prices up.”  Crude for June delivery slid as much as 81 cents to $103.74
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $104.30 at 1:36 p.m. London time. The
contract rose 43 cents yesterday to $104.55, the highest close
since April 2. Prices are up 1.2 percent this week and have
posted a similar gain this month.  Brent oil for June settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined 34 cents, or 0.3 percent, to
$119.58 a barrel. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
U.S. futures was at $15.28 a barrel.  Chart Resistance  Oil in  New York  has technical resistance along its 50-day
moving average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures
halted yesterday’s advance near this indicator, which is at
$105.10 a barrel today. Sell orders tend to be clustered near
chart-resistance levels.  Prices may decrease next week on lower euro-region
confidence and signs the U.S. is struggling to address
unemployment levels, a Bloomberg survey showed. Sixteen of 37
analysts and traders surveyed forecast oil will drop through May
4. Twelve respondents predicted futures will rise and nine
estimated there will be little change.  Economic Outlook  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the
first quarter, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . That followed a 3 percent pace in the prior quarter
and compared with the 2.5 percent median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. jobless claims fell to 388,000 last week from a
revised 389,000 the prior week, the highest since early January,
according to Labor Department data yesterday. An index of
executive and consumer sentiment in the 17-nation euro area slid
to 92.8 from a revised 94.5 in March, a report by the European
Commission in Brussels showed.  “It’s quite clear in West Texas terms that we’ve moved
back into the trading range between $103.50 and $108.50, and at
this stage we’re not looking at any factors over the next few
weeks that are likely to drive us out of there,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific
Pty in Sydney. “Europe is an important economy to the globe but
we don’t see it as a major engine of growth.”  The countries using the euro accounted for about 12 percent
of global oil demand in 2010, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical
Review of World Energy. The U.S. was the biggest crude user,
responsible for 21 percent of world consumption.  Libya  plans to surpass its pre-rebellion crude output by
about June and will soon start its largest refinery that was
damaged during fighting last year, Nuri Berruien, chairman of
state-run National Oil Corp. said yesterday. Production is
expected to climb above 1.6 million barrels a day, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
To Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  