-- Money Market Indicators Signals Banking Sector Stress Stable
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-27T13:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/money-market-indicators-signals-banking-sector-stress-stable.html
Money-market indicators signaled
the ability of banks to borrow and lend short term funds
increased with the gap between the London interbank offered rate
and the Federal funds rate narrowing.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another,  was  0.4659 percent, unchanged from yesterday,
according to the British Bankers’ Association.  The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of banks reluctance to lend,
was 32.4 basis points from 32.7 basis points yesterday. The gap
was as high as 51 basis points this year on Jan. 6. Overnight
index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on where the Fed’s
effective funds rate will average for the term of the swap. The
central bank’s target rate is set in a range of zero to 0.25
percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, was little changed at 33.5 basis points for
June, according to UBS AG data. The spread is up from 30 basis
points on March 1.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed to 29.81 basis points from 30.31 basis points.
The gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking
sector credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations
for dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors
in many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market rose. The three-month cross-currency basis
swap was 45 basis points below Euribor, compared to 44.5 basis
points below yesterday. The basis swap rate was minus 162.5
basis points on Nov. 30.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The market for corporate borrowing through U.S.  commercial
paper  contracted. The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.
 commercial paper  declined $6.7 billion to $925.9 billion
outstanding in the week ended April 25, the third fall in four
weeks, according to Federal Reserve data compiled by Bloomberg.
Corporations sell commercial paper, typically maturing in 270
days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying rent
and salaries.  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, rose. The
measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was 40 basis
points from 39 basis points yesterday. The measure has fallen
from 95 basis points at the start of the year.  Basis Swaps  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 30.2 basis points, compared to
minus 29.7 yesterday. A negative swap price indicates investors
are willing to receive reduced interest payments on the yen they
lend in order to obtain the needed financing in dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 Emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  