-- Moscow Property Tycoon Rebuilds in Exile After Husband’s Ouster
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a
-- 2012-04-27T10:10:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/moscow-property-tycoon-rebuilds-in-exile-after-husband-s-ouster.html
Elena Baturina, for many years
 Russia ’s only known female  billionaire , is prowling for real
estate opportunities in Europe and the U.S. as she seeks to
expand her property empire in exile.  Baturina, who began building her fortune manufacturing
plastics and saw her biggest success after entering the housing
construction business in the 1990s, left Russia more than a year
ago, after her husband, former Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov, was
fired during a political spat with President  Dmitry Medvedev .
She now spends most of her time in Austria and the U.K., where
the couple’s two daughters are studying.  “I am considering entering the European real estate
market, not just as an investor but as a real developer, a
builder,” Baturina, 49, said in an April 13 interview in
London. “Perhaps it will result in buying a European company,
most likely in Germany or  Austria .”  Baturina, who was summoned last year for questioning as a
witness in a corruption probe involving funds from the city-
controlled Bank of Moscow that ended up in one of her bank
accounts, was considered to be Russia’s richest woman before
moving abroad. She said her fortune still tops $1 billion and
declined to elaborate on her specific holdings. She said she
plans use about $700 million to create two real estate
investment funds that will be used to develop building projects
and office space management opportunities in Europe and the U.S.  Big Plans  In December 2011, Baturina sold  ZAO Inteco , one of Russia’s
largest development companies, to a partnership that included
Russian developer and Binbank President Mikhail Shishkhanov, and
a business unit of OAO Sberbank, for an undisclosed sum. At the
time of the sale, the company had more than 13 million square
feet of mainly housing projects completed or in development and,
according to the company website, was worth $1.2 billion.  A Moscow native who graduated from the State University of
Management, Baturina held onto a number of Inteco’s properties,
including a golf and ski resort in Austria, and hotels in  St.
Petersburg , the Czech Republic and  Kazakhstan . Today she owns
five hotels, including The Morrison in Dublin, which she bought
in March 2012 for $30 million. She said her goal is to own or
manage at least 14 hotels around the world by 2015.  “We are now looking at  France ,  Belgium  and the
Mediterranean coast of  Africa ,” Baturina said. “If I decided
to realize all of the opportunities I see, I would perhaps need
about 3.5 billion euros.”  Hotels, Charity  Baturina said she will commit almost $300 million of her
own money toward developing a four-star hotel chain across
Europe, while looking for outside investors to contribute about
$600 million more. She declined to name her partners. She also
is looking to build in  Morocco , including a possible string of
boutique hotels, as well as a resort and residential complex on
a 250-acre plot of land she owns along the Mediterranean coast.  Baturina is also focusing her resources on philanthropy and
earlier this month, at the Milan Design Week conference,
announced she will be dedicating $100 million to the  Be Open 
Foundation, a charity she created in April to support young
talent in architecture, design, art and other disciplines.  In September 2010, President Medvedev fired Luzhkov as
Moscow’s mayor after numerous media reports accused the
political appointee of corruption and favoritism toward his
wife. Luzhkov, who had led Moscow for almost two decades,
claimed he was let go because Medvedev questioned his loyalty.  Police Raid  Five months later, eight months before Baturina announced
the sale of the firm, Moscow police raided Inteco’s Moscow
offices.  Last year, prosecutors summoned Luzhkov to testify in the
Bank of Moscow corruption case. At issue: the city government’s
2009 purchase of a stake in the bank for more than $400 million,
according to an Oct. 27, 2011 e-mail statement from the Russian
 Interior Ministry . Investigators asserted the bank had loaned
about $380 million to ZAO Premier Estate, a Russian property
company, and that those funds eventually landed in an Inteco
bank account controlled by Baturina.  Baturina was named as a witness in the case in 2011, less
than a year after she left Russia, and was called to testify
three times during 2011, each time by way of summonses sent to
the Inteco offices in Moscow. In October 2011, investigators
released a statement that said Baturina had ignored the requests
and, in January, the Interior Ministry  announced  on its website
that it was preparing to ask Austrian authorities to summon
Baturina as a witness on their behalf regarding a case of
“embezzlement” at the Bank of Moscow.  Luzhkov and Baturina
have denied wrongdoing.  ‘Weak’ Medvedev  Baturina said in a September 2011 statement that the funds
were payment for a 2009 land sale to Premier Estate. She said in
an April 23 e-mail to Bloomberg News that neither she nor Inteco
have ever been connected to Premier Estate. Luzhkov has said his
troubles in Moscow are political retribution for comments he
made to the media in October 2011 that labeled Medvedev “weak”
and incapable of resolving the country’s issues.  Against this backdrop, and despite her real estate
foothold in Western  Europe , some industry observers are
skeptical Baturina will be able to achieve the same success
outside of Russia that she had within.  “Most real estate developers are successful due to a
combination of their professional understanding of real estate
and their local connections,” Darrell Stanaford, a Moscow-based
real estate analyst who worked as managing director for CBRE
Group Inc. in Russia from 2005 to 2011. “For this reason most
developers that are successful in one market are not successful
in other markets unless they are exceptionally professional.”  Baturina has plans to use her investment funds and her
foundation project to dig deeper into business and the
professional community she covets.  ‘’Developing the foundation gives me the possibility to meet
with very creative people,” she said. “Since I spend most of
my time in Europe, why not meet new people here, and why not
introduce them to what we have in Russia?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in  London  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  