-- Emergin-Market Equities Advance as Profits Boost Russia
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y   a n d   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-04-27T21:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/most-emerging-stocks-drop-on-china-earnings-debt-concern.html
Emerging-market stocks rose for a
fourth day, trimming declines in the week, as companies
including OAO Gazprom and Tim Participacoes SA reported rising
profits.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 0.4 percent to
1,019.50 by 4:30 p.m. in  New York , reducing its weekly drop to
0.2 percent, the sixth straight decline. Telecommunications
companies from Samsung SDI Co. to  Telekomunikasi Indonesia
Persero Tbk (TLKM)  were among the leading gainers, as Russia’s Micex
Index jumped the most in a week. Brazil’s Bovespa Index declined
while the IPC Index in  Mexico  rose, erasing earlier losses.  Gazprom, Russia’s gas-export monopoly, boosted fourth-
quarter profit by 22 percent to 383 billion rubles ($13
billion), according to a statement today, beating the median
analyst estimate of 342 billion rubles. Tim Participacoes, the
Brazilian unit of Telecom Italia SpA, said yesterday that net
income gained 30 percent in the first three months of the year.
Samsung SDI said first-quarter earnings gained 11 percent.  Company earnings have come in better than the market
expected, helping to “drive global risk appetite by
investors,”  Neil Shearing , a senior emerging market analyst at
Capital Economics Ltd., said by phone from  London . “There are
also signs the European crisis is not going away so there are
some concerns about growth and sustainability in  emerging
markets  like Brazil.”  Credit Rating  Standard & Poor’s cut  Spain ’s credit rating by two steps to
BBB+, the third-lowest rating, with a negative outlook, on
concern the country will have to provide further fiscal support
to banks as its economy contracts. The  U.S. economy  expanded at
an annual 2.2 percent rate in the first quarter, falling short
of the median forecast for 2.5 percent growth of 85 economists.  The MSCI Emerging Market Index retreated for a sixth week,
the longest losing streak since October 2008. MSCI’s developing-
nations gauge has climbed 11 percent this year and trades at
10.6 times estimated profit. That compares with a multiple of
12.6 times for the MSCI World Index of advanced countries, which
has added 9.8 percent in 2012.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
rose 0.1 percent to $42.31 in New York.  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, fell 2.7 percent to 23.52 for a
fourth day of declines.  Cyrela Brazil Realty S.A. was the biggest decliner in
Brazil’s Bovespa index, retreating 7.9 percent, the most since
2009. The Bovespa declined 0.8 percent, dragging weekly losses
to 1.3 percent.  Embraer, Tim  Embraer SA, the world’s fourth-largest planemaker, posted
first-quarter net profit that fell 36 percent on cost increases.
The Sao Jose dos Campos, Brazil-based company rose 0.4 percent,
reversing earlier losses of as much as 2.7 percent in Sao Paulo.  Tim Participacoes, a telecommunications company, gained 1.6
percent on first-quarter net income that rose 29.5 percent to
276 million reais ($146.2 million), the company said in a
regulatory  filing  today.  Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  gained 1.6 percent in Moscow, erasing
losses of 1 percent yesterday. OAO Uralkali, the world’s biggest
potash producer by output, added 1.3 percent. Brazilian
customers of the company’s export trader Belarusian Potash Co.
agreed to buy the product, used in fertilizer, at $550 a metric
ton, BPC spokesman Fillip Gritskov said.  OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel climbed as much as 2.4 percent, the
first increase in five days, after Russian billionaire Alisher
Usmanov said he’s increasing the stake he controls in the
country’s biggest mining company.  Hungary, Poland  The  BUX Index (BUX)  rose 0.3 percent in Hungary as  OTP Bank
Nyrt. (OTP) , the country’s largest lender, retreated for the first
time in four days. The company’s shares dropped 0.8 percent
after the cut to Spain’s sovereign credit rating, adding to
concern that the debt crisis will worsen as Hungary works to
obtain aid.  Poland’s WIG20 Index climbed 1.6 percent.  Jastrzebska
Spolka Weglowa SA (JSW) , the European Union’s biggest coking-coal
producer, jumped 3.9 percent, a fourth day of gains. Deutsche
Bank AG recommended buying the Polish company’s shares on the
prospect of higher coal prices and “strong” production volumes
this year.  Telekomunikasi, based in Bandung,  Indonesia , climbed 6.3
percent to 8,500 rupiah. The company’s first-quarter net income
rose to 3.33 trillion rupiah ($362.4 million) from 2.82 trillion
rupiah a year earlier, it said in a statement on its website.  China Stocks  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index lost 0.3 percent today.
South Korea’s Kospi Index gained 0.6 percent.  Zijin Mining Group Co. (2899) , China’s biggest gold miner by
market value, slumped 9.3 percent in  Hong Kong  after saying
first-quarter profit slid as costs climbed. The company’s shares
dropped to HK$2.63, the lowest close since Oct. 10. Profit in
the first quarter declined 23 percent to 1.07 billion yuan
($169.6 million).  “It will take some time for China to become the main
driver for the region’s economic growth again,” said Kavee Chukitkasem, an investment strategist at Kasikorn Securities Co.
Ltd. in Bangkok. “The European debt problem will still be a
drag on markets as Spain may turn into another time bomb.”  Samsung Electronics Co Ltd., Asia’s largest consumer-
electronics maker, rose to 1.374 million won, a record close.
The company posted first-quarter net income that jumped 81
percent from a year earlier to 5.05 trillion won ($4.4 billion),
the company said in a statement today.  Samsung SDI Co. (006400) , a supplier for Apple Inc., jumped 7.5
percent to 151,000 won, the biggest gainer in the developing-
market stock index, after reporting quarterly profit grew 11
percent, more than estimated.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 352, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 Charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 Eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  