-- Total Says Gas Leak Will Cut Output as Profit Little Changed
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-04-27T16:16:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/total-says-gas-leak-will-cut-output-as-profit-little-changed.html
Total SA (FP) ,  Europe ’s third-largest
oil producer, said second-quarter production would be cut by a
gas leak in the  North Sea  as earnings in the first three months
were weighed down by a weak refining market.  Profit excluding changes in inventories and the value of a
stake in Sanofi-Aventis SA was little changed at 3.07 billion
euros ($4.04 billion) from 3.1 billion euros a year earlier, the
Paris-based company said today in a statement. That compared
with the 3.06 billion-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Production was almost unchanged at 2.37 million barrels of
oil equivalent a day, according to the statement. Second-quarter
output will be hurt by the leak at the Elgin platform and
incidents in  Nigeria  and Yemen, the company said.  Total is making “good progress on the Elgin incident,”
 Bertrand Hodee , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, said in a
note. Results were “toward the high end” of consensus
estimates.  Total shares were little changed at 36.50 euros. The stock
has dropped 11 percent since the gas leak began last month.  Stop Seepage  The oil company is attempting to plug the leak with heavy
mud, known as a top-kill operation, while at the same time
drilling two relief wells as an alternative solution. Efforts to
stem the leak and loss of production have cost more than $50
million so far.  Before the accident, Total had forecast production would
climb this year with projects in Angola, Nigeria and  Thailand 
after dropping 1.3 percent in 2011.  “If we take a conservative view that Elgin Franklin will
not restart before the end of the year, then 2012 production
could be flat,” Chief Financial Officer Patrick de la
Chevardiere said. The company is losing 0.2 percent of
production growth for each month that Elgin Franklin remains
shut.  Halts at Elgin and Nigeria through the second quarter could
shave 70,000 barrels of oil equivalent a day off output while
maintenance could cut another 93,000 barrels a day, he said.  “We will not restart production from Elgin Franklin until
we can do it safely,” de la Chevardiere said. “There is a
possibility it could restart gradually sometime before the end
of the year.”  Total is also seeking to halt a Nigerian leak at a gas
plant which has led to lost output of 20,000 barrels of oil
equivalent a day.  ‘Strong Deterioration’  Total reported a 77 percent drop in quarterly earnings from
refining and chemicals due to a “strong deterioration” in
European petrochemicals.  Adjusted net operating income from the  oil company ’s
refining and chemicals division was 61 million euros, compared
with 266 million euros last year.  Total’s three platforms at the Elgin and Franklin fields
about 240 kilometers (150 miles) east of Aberdeen, Scotland, are
some of the biggest installations in the world to pump oil and
natural gas from high-pressure, high-temperature wells. Total is
the operator, with a 46 percent stake in the fields, in which
the company has drilled new wells and added platforms in recent
years in a bid to forestall the fields’ decline.  The French driller started production this month at the
Islay gas field that straddles the U.K. and Norwegian parts of
the North Sea, and Greater Bongkot in the Gulf of Thailand.
Output is scheduled to start next at Sulige in  China  and the
Angola LNG project.  Syria Offset  Higher Libyan output for Total was offset by a decrease in
 Syria , where the French company stopped production due to
unrest.  Total is pushing harder to make big discoveries by drilling
more frontier exploration wells. So far the strategy has paid
off with successes in  Azerbaijan ,  Bolivia ,  French Guiana  and
Norway, according to the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  