-- House Votes to Avert Doubling of Student Interest Rates
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-04-28T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/house-republicans-try-to-blunt-student-loan-flap.html
Republicans and Democrats are
squaring off over freezing student-loan interest rates in a
partisan fight that resembles lawmakers’ recent confrontation
over extending the  payroll tax  cut.  The student-loan standoff could consume the energies of
House and Senate leaders after they return from a week-long
recess as the election race between President Barack Obama and
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  heats up. The payroll-tax
fight lasted two months before Congress passed a $145 billion
extension measure in February.  The student-loan dispute carries “a real downside” for
Republicans, “but it’s not quite as radioactive as the payroll
tax,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist at Claremont-
McKenna College in Claremont,  California .  This time “they are trying to frame the issue to their
advantage” by “passing something and trying to shift the blame
for obstructionism to the Democrats,” he said.  The Republican-led House, defying a veto threat from the
White House, voted 215-195 yesterday to extend the current 3.4
percent interest rate on government  student loans  that is set to
double on July 1. The Obama administration called the measure
“politically motivated” because it would finance the $5.9
billion subsidy by abolishing a public-health fund.  Democrats accused Republicans of what House Minority Leader
 Nancy Pelosi  called an “assault on women’s health” because the
measure would eliminate the health fund, which has provided
breast and cervical cancer screenings as well as child
immunization and prenatal tests for  birth defects  and
developmental disorders. They cited a  USA Today /Gallup  poll 
showing Romney trailing Obama among women voters by 18
percentage points.  ‘Where Are the Women?’  “We will continue to ask the question: Where are the
women?” New York Democratic Representative  Carolyn Maloney  told
reporters before the vote. “Republicans have worked very hard
to earn that gender gap, bit by bit, vote by vote, defunding by
defunding and insult by insult.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , who had rushed the legislation
to the floor after Obama toured college campuses in three swing
states to prod Congress to act, maintained that Republicans had
planned all along to avert the interest-rate increase.  “No one wants to see student loans go up,” Boehner said.
“Why do people insist we have to have a political fight on
something where there is no fight?”  Boehner, who had derided the public-health account as a
“slush fund,” also rejected the Democrats’ charge against his
party about women’s health. “To accuse us of wanting to gut
women’s health is absolutely not true,” Boehner said in a floor
speech. “Give me a break.”  ‘Slush Fund’  Other  House Republicans  agreed. “What we are talking about
is using a slush fund that is provided” to the health and human
services secretary “to spend as she sees fit,” said  John Kline , the Minnesota Republican who is chairman of the House
Education and the Workforce Committee. “That is somehow
perceived as an attack on women, what a surprise in this
election year.”  Kline said there were other sources of money for the
women’s health initiatives that are financed by the preventive
health fund.  Boehner claimed Democrats earlier this year had supported
taking $5 billion from the fund to finance the extension of the
payroll tax cut through December.  Democrats “weren’t happy that was the only way”
Republicans “would agree to the payroll tax reduction,” Pelosi
said. The earlier example provides “all the more reason to
leave the rest of the money” in the fund, she said.  Retroactive Adjustment  Unlike the payroll tax fight, Congress isn’t under a hard-
and-fast deadline to avert the doubling of the interest rate on
student loans from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent.  The payroll-tax fight was resolved only after Congress had
extended from Dec. 31 to Feb. 29 the withholding rates in effect
for 2011. The student-loan interest rate can be adjusted
retroactively because students don’t start paying off loans
until they graduate.  Under the program, students must borrow money each year and
pay an interest rate set at the time the loan is granted,
according to the Education Department. In the current school
year 7.4 million students borrowed an average of $4,226,
according to agency data.  The House measure passed with the votes of 202 Republicans
and 13 Democrats. Thirty Republicans and 165 Democrats opposed
it.  The House Republican plan “doesn’t sound like a good deal
to me,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
said. He set up a procedural vote on a Democratic version of the
measure for May 8, after Congress returns from a one-week
recess.  Withholding Tax  The Senate’s version of the measure would raise $9 billion
by requiring law, accounting and other professional services
firms with three or fewer shareholders to pay withholding tax if
they make more than $250,000 annually. Partners in such firms
now treat the income as profits and avoid the withholding tax.  Both bills would amend the 1965 Higher Education Act to
adjust the rate for Federal Direct Stafford loans. The 3.4
percent interest rate has been in place since July 1, 2011.  Both Obama and Romney are courting the youth vote.  The former Massachusetts governor joined Obama in urging
lawmakers to freeze the  interest rates  students pay for the
government loans, while blaming the president for an economy in
which “50 percent of recent college graduates are unemployed or
underemployed.”  Younger Voters  A Gallup  poll  shows Obama must generate more enthusiasm
among younger people to ensure they vote, though he leads Romney
64 percent to 29 percent among people ages 18 to 29. Only 56
percent of young registered voters said they will definitely
vote in November, according to the survey conducted April 20-24.
Romney leads Obama by 12 percentage points among voters age 65
and older, and 86 percent of this group said they planned to
vote.  The anti-tax group Club for Growth had urged lawmakers to
oppose the bill, saying it would count as a “yes” vote against
lawmakers in its annual congressional scorecard.  “The federal government should not be in the business of
distorting the market for student loans,” Club for Growth
President  Chris Chocola  said in a statement. “Decades of
government intervention have driven tuition costs to record
highs and continuing these subsidies is simply bad policy.”  The House bill is H.R. 4628.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  