-- House Defies Obama Veto Threat in Passing Cyber Measure
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-04-27T19:04:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/house-defies-obama-veto-threat-in-passing-cyber-measure.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
raised the stakes in a debate with the White House over how best
to improve the nation’s cybersecurity, passing a bill President
 Barack Obama  called too weak and threatened to veto.  The Cyber Intelligence Sharing and Protection Act passed
the House by 248 to 168 yesterday. The measure, introduced by
Representative Mike Rogers, a Michigan Republican who heads the
House Intelligence Committee, encourages the government and
companies to voluntarily share data on cyber threats and gives
businesses legal immunity for such exchanges.  “We can’t stand by and do nothing as U.S. companies are
hemorrhaging from the cyber looting coming from nation states
like China and Russia,” Rogers said in an e-mailed statement
after the vote. “America will be a little safer and our economy
better protected from foreign cyber predators with this
legislation.”  Lawmakers are debating cybersecurity legislation as fears
intensify about the ability of cyber spies to steal U.S.
intellectual property and the potential for digital disruption
of vital U.S. infrastructure.  Hackers and illicit programmers in China and  Russia  are
aggressively pursuing American technology and industrial
secrets, jeopardizing an estimated $398 billion in U.S. research
spending, the National Counterintelligence Executive, the agency
responsible for countering foreign spying on the U.S.
government, said in a November  report .  ‘Horrible Bill’  The Obama administration “strongly opposes” the Rogers
bill in its current form, according to an April 25 policy
statement issued by the Office of Management and Budget.  The administration said the measure doesn’t do enough to
protect the nation’s critical systems from cyber attacks and
would erode privacy safeguards for consumer information. Civil
liberties groups initiated a Web protest against the legislation
last week, saying it would let too much personal data flow to
the government without limits on its use.  “As we’ve seen repeatedly, once the government gets
expansive national security authorities, there’s no going
back,” Michelle Richardson, legislative counsel for the
 American Civil Liberties Union , said in an e-mailed statement
after the House vote. “We encourage the Senate to let this
horrible bill fade into obscurity.”  ‘Common-Sense Steps’  The White House supports a bill from Senator  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut Independent, that would put the
Department of Homeland Security in charge of regulating
cybersecurity of the nation’s vital systems such as power grids
and transportation networks. Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
a Nevada Democrat, has pledged to bring the Lieberman bill to
the Senate floor without giving a date.  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, brushed
aside the Obama administration’s veto threat yesterday, saying
“the White House believes the government ought to control the
Internet” by letting government alone set security standards.  Obama administration officials “are in a camp all by
themselves” by favoring the creation of a “monster here in
 Washington  to control what we are going to see or not see on the
Internet,” he told reporters ahead of the vote.  The speaker called the Republican legislation the first of
“common-sense steps to allow people to communicate with each
other” to “build the walls that are necessary in order to
prevent cyberterrorism.”  House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi  said the Republican-
backed measure lacked important protections to safeguard
critical infrastructure.  Government Security  The “very dangerous” omission occurred because Republican
leaders “did not want the regulation of the utilities that
would truly protect us from a cyber attack,” the California
Democrat told reporters before yesterday’s vote.  The House approved a series of amendments to the Rogers
bill, including measures aimed at narrowing the types of
information that can be shared and limiting what government can
do with the data. The chamber passed a separate bill yesterday
updating the government’s information-security controls, and
passed two cybersecurity research-and-development bills today.  Lieberman and three other Senate co-sponsors of his measure
called the House information-sharing and research bills
“necessary but by no means comprehensive elements of a
cybersecurity legislative strategy.”  ‘Troubled’  “We are troubled House leaders blocked consideration of
protections for critical infrastructure systems, ignoring the
advice of our military and intelligence leaders as well as most
cybersecurity experts,” Lieberman said today in an e-mailed
statement, joined by Republican  Susan Collins  of  Maine  and
Democrats  Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia  and  Dianne Feinstein 
of  California .  The senators said they look forward to passing their bill
“so that we can conference with the House and produce
legislation that secures the most critical systems on which all
American people and businesses depend each day.”  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the nation’s largest
business-lobbying organization, and trade groups including the
Financial Services Roundtable back information-sharing between
the public and private sectors and oppose new regulations on
cybersecurity.  Such data-sharing programs have been attempted since the
late 1990s during the Clinton administration and failed to
provide any noticeable improvement in security,  James Lewis ,
technology program director at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, said in an interview
earlier this month.  ‘Pessimistic’  Michael Chertoff , who was  Homeland Security  secretary under
President  George W. Bush , said he’s getting “more pessimistic”
that a cybersecurity bill will become law.  “Outside groups” have created divisions on a non-partisan
issue, Chertoff, co-founder of The Chertoff Group, a Washington-
based security consulting firm, said in an interview today at
Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.  The level of warnings about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
is “infinitesimal” compared with warnings about threats to
cybersecurity, he said.  If a bill passes, it’s probably going to focus on
information sharing, he said.  The Rogers bill is H.R. 3523. The Lieberman bill is S.
2105.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  