-- House Lawmaker Wants Probe of Accretive’s Debt Practices
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-27T21:38:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/house-lawmaker-wants-probe-of-accretive-s-debt-practices.html
A Democratic lawmaker asked U.S.
health officials to investigate the practices of debt collector
 Accretive Health Inc. (AH) , accused of demanding that emergency room
patients pay their bills before receiving care at a hospital
group in  Minnesota .  Federal law prohibits hospitals from denying emergency care
to anyone, regardless of their ability to pay. Minnesota’s
attorney general, who is suing Chicago-based Accretive for its
debt collection practices at hospitals in her state, said in a
report issued April 24 that the company trained hospital
employees to give patients the impression they wouldn’t get care
before paying bills.  “This is corporate greed at its worst, abuse of patients’
rights to dignity and privacy, and I believe a violation of
several laws,” Representative Pete Stark of California said
yesterday in a statement.  Rhonda Barnat, a spokeswoman for Accretive with the
Abernathy MacGregor Group in  New York , said the company wouldn’t
comment on Stark’s action.  Stark called on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services and the inspector general for the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services to investigate Accretive’s practices
and issue a warning to hospitals if the company is found to have
violated the law.  “We are giving it very close consideration and will take
appropriate action,” Don White, a spokesman for the inspector
general’s office, said in a telephone interview.  Attorney General’s Report  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson said in her report
that Accretive trained employees at Fairview Health Services, a
seven-hospital nonprofit chain based in  Minneapolis , to approach
patients in emergency rooms and at their bedsides about their
bills.  Employees were instructed to convince patients to pay for
past debts and new services they needed before they were
treated.  Accretive also faces a lawsuit from a shareholder, Linda
Wong, who charges the company’s executives concealed business
practices they knew were illegal. Wong filed her suit in federal
court in  Chicago  yesterday and seeks class-action, or group,
status on behalf of other investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  