-- Lloyds Reopens Discussions on Branch Sales to Other Bidders
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-04-27T15:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/lloyds-re-opens-discussions-on-branch-sales-to-other-bidders-1-.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage lender, will consider alternative bids for the
632 branches regulators are forcing it to sell, paving the way
to reopen talks with  NBNK Investments Plc. (NBNK)   Lloyds is no longer in an “exclusivity agreement” in
relation to discussions with Co-Operative Group Ltd., the
London-based lender said in a statement today. The bank will
“consider detailed discussions” with other bidders, including
NBNK, whose 1.5 billion-pound ($2.4 billion) offer to buy the
branches Lloyds spurned last year.  Co-Op was in December named preferred bidder for the
branches that Lloyds has to sell by the end of November 2013 to
comply with European Union state-aid rules after its government
bailout. Co-Op Chief Executive Officer  Peter Marks  said on March
29 there were “very material regulatory issues” to its
proposed purchase of branches, fueling concerns its bid may
collapse.  “The Co-Operative Group remains very involved in the
process currently,” Co-Op said in a statement today. “We
continue to make good progress.”  NBNK said in a separate e-mailed statement that its offer
will “safeguard and create jobs and deliver superior value to
Lloyds and its shareholders.”  Lloyds closed down 0.9 percent at 31.19 pence in London
trading, the only decliner among Britain’s five biggest banks.  ‘In Jeopardy’  “Today’s move appears perfectly sensible,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec Securities in London. “It’s no
secret that the Co-Op deal may be in jeopardy, and it’s also
entirely possible that an alternative transaction with NBNK may
yet deliver a better outcome. I expect the uncertainty to
persist for some time to come.”  Lloyds said last month it’s separately preparing for a
possible initial public offering of the branches. NBNK submitted
a fresh bid for the branches on April 12, offering investors
cash or shares in the branches. The bid would allow Lloyds to
avoid the risks of selling the unit in an IPO, NBNK said.  Lloyds will proceed with discussions only if “satisfied
that any proposal is likely to achieve the appropriate
regulatory clearances and offers greater value and/or certainty
to Lloyds shareholders against its alternative option of an
IPO,” according to its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in  London  at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  