-- P&G Cuts Full-Year Earnings Forecast
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/p-g-cuts-full-year-earnings-forecast.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , the world’s
largest consumer-products company, fell the most in more than
two years after reducing its earnings forecast, hurt by
regulations in Venezuela and slowing sales shipments in some
developed markets.  P&G  dropped  3.6 percent to $64.48 yesterday at the close in
New York, the biggest decline since August 2009. The shares have
fallen 3.3 percent this year.  The company, based in Cincinnati, cut its full-year profit
forecast excluding some items to as much as $3.88 a share from a
previous forecast of a maximum of $4.03. Analysts projected
$3.99, the average of 22  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  P&G executives on a conference call yesterday said that new
regulations in Venezuela, where sales are more than $1 billion,
forced price cuts as steep as 25 percent. U.S. consumer
companies including P&G,  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ)  have had to slash prices on products such as toothpaste,
toilet paper and bleach after President  Hugo Chavez  installed
price caps to slow inflation. The revenue from Venezuela is
about 1.2 percent of P&G’s $82.6 billion in  sales  last year.  Chief Financial Officer Jon Moeller said sales shipments in
developed markets declined slightly in the fiscal third quarter,
“reflecting weak economic conditions.” North American sales
volume was unchanged in the last three months while  Europe  was
down about half a percentage point from a year earlier.  Reducing Prices  P&G lost “significant share” in some categories after the
company raised prices and competitors didn’t, Moeller said. The
company is now reducing prices in six categories, including
North American oral care, razor blades and dish care, as well as
laundry detergent in the U.S., U.K. and  Mexico .  Household-products makers including P&G have raised prices
in the past year to counter higher expenses for raw materials.
Last week,  Kimberly-Clark Corp. (KMB) , the maker of Huggies diapers
and Kleenex tissues, reported a 34 percent increase in quarterly
profit that was helped by price increases.  P&G’s earnings in the fiscal fourth quarter will be
“negatively affected” by higher commodity costs and the
company’s tax rate will be “significantly” higher than a year
earlier, the company said yesterday in a statement.  ‘Not Our Fault’  Net income in the fiscal third quarter fell 16 percent to
$2.41 billion, or 82 cents a share, from $2.87 billion, or 96
cents, a year earlier, the company said. Excluding some items,
profit was 94 cents a share. Analysts projected 92 cents, the
average of 20  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  “P&G is not delivering,” Wendy Nicholson, an analyst at
Citigroup Inc., said on the conference call. “There’s so many
excuses: not our fault, competition didn’t follow the pricing;
not our fault,  Venezuela  changed; not our fault, the developed
consumer isn’t robust,” she said.  “It is my fault,” Chief Executive Officer  Robert McDonald 
said on the call. “I do take responsibility. We will get the
right leaders in place to deliver and will put the right
programs in place to deliver.”  Other analysts questioned P&G’s strategy and restructuring
plan on the call.  “You have major issues to maintain your share without
rolling back the pricing or aggressively using promotion to push
out material margin improvement,” said Tim Conder, an analyst
at Wells Fargo Securities. “It seems one of execution,” Conder
said, who has an outperform rating on the shares, meaning he
expects the stock’s return to exceed the average among its
peers.  ‘Current Plan’  “How long do you expect investors to wait?,” said  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who cited the
company’s underperforming beauty-care business and has an
outperform rating on the stock. “How long does your current
plan have to work? How much patience does the board have?”  Revenue at P&G, the maker of Pampers diapers and Gillette
razors, rose 1.5 percent to $20.19 billion in the third quarter,
according to the statement.  In February, P&G announced it was selling Pringles to
 Kellogg Co. (K)  for $2.7 billion in cash, terminating a previous
plan to sell the potato chip business to Diamond Foods Inc.  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. (NWL) , maker of Sharpie pens and Aprica
strollers, also reported results yesterday. First-quarter profit
excluding some items totaled 33 cents a share, exceeding the 31-
cent average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income rose 4.8 percent to $79.3 million, or 27 cents a share,
from $75.7 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier, helped by sales
in  Latin America  and  Asia  as well as its professional and baby
care units.  In baby care, “the good growth in this business is
actually coming from the developed world right now,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Polk said yesterday in a telephone
interview, citing its Aprica brand in Japan and stronger Graco
sales in the U.S.  Newell, based in Atlanta,  rose  3.5 percent to $18.58 at the
close in  New York . The shares have gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  