-- Paul Weiss, Greenberg, Latham, Linklaters: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-04-27T10:37:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/paul-weiss-greenberg-latham-linklaters-business-of-law-1-.html
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission
hired a top  Washington  litigator to run its antitrust
investigation of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , signaling the agency may be
preparing a lawsuit against the world’s largest search engine.  The FTC is bringing in Beth Wilkinson, a partner with Paul,
Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP, who is known for winning
the death sentence against Oklahoma City bomber Timothy McVeigh
and litigating for companies including  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Philip
Morris International Inc. (PM)  General counsel of  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  from
2006 to 2008, Wilkinson, 49, has never lost a case.  “Historically, the FTC and the  Justice Department  bring in
outside counsel only in the most high-profile and complicated
cases, and only when they’re really serious about proceeding,”
said Samuel Miller, senior counsel with Sidley Austin LLP in  San
Francisco , who was tapped to lead the department’s antitrust
case against Microsoft Corp. in 1994.  Google disclosed in June that the FTC had opened a broad
antitrust investigation of its business practices. The FTC is
focusing on whether Google unfairly ranks search results to
favor its own businesses and increased advertising rates for
competitors, people familiar with the probe told Bloomberg News
at the time.  The agency also is examining whether the  Mountain View ,
California-based company is using its control of the Android
mobile operating system to discourage smartphone makers from
using rivals’ applications, and whether search results that
include the new Google+ social-networking service violate
antitrust laws, the people said.  “We are delighted to have someone of her caliber helping
us on such an important matter,” said Rich Feinstein, director
of the FTC’s Bureau of Competition.  He said no conclusion has been reached on whether to bring
a lawsuit and no decision is “imminent.” He declined to
comment further on the investigation.  Google spokeswoman Mistique Cano declined to comment on
Wilkinson’s hiring.  For more, click here.  TD Bank Says Its Lawyer Falsely Told Judge Document Didn’t Exist  A  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  lawyer falsely told a judge that a
document didn’t exist when investors suing over convicted conman
Scott Rothstein’s Ponzi scheme requested it, the bank’s
attorneys said in a filing.  The bank this week produced the document, an internal bank
record called a “Standard Investigative Protocol,” and told a
judge that its attorney previously gave false information when
she said it didn’t exist.  TD Bank also replaced the law firm, Greenberg Traurig LLP,
which represented it during a January trial in which the bank
was sued by investors who claimed it should have detected money
laundering in accounts Rothstein held there. Jurors in Miami
awarded the investors $67 million.  McGuireWoods LLP will now represent TD Bank in the lawsuit
and in a related one, Rebecca Acevedo, a bank spokeswoman, said
in a statement.  “TD and Greenberg Traurig decided it was in the best
interest of all concerned that McGuireWoods represents TD,”
Acevedo said.  During the trial, one of the bank’s attorneys with
Greenberg Traurig told U.S. District Judge Marcia G. Cooke that
the bank didn’t have a “Standard Investigative Protocol,”
according to a transcript of proceedings on Jan. 13. A TD Bank
senior vice president also said in an affidavit that the
document didn’t exist.  “We cannot comment directly about facts regarding our
representation of a client, particularly a matter currently
before the court,” Jill Perry, a spokeswoman for Greenberg
Traurig, said April 25 in an e-mailed statement. “We are
working to address this situation in a professional manner.”  David Mandel, attorney for the investors, declined to
comment.  Separately, the investors, known collectively as the
Coquina group, asked the judge last week to sanction the bank
because a different document produced by the bank was altered
before it was given to Coquina’s attorneys.  Cooke has scheduled a hearing for Greenberg Traurig to
address the issue of the altered document and to show why its
attorneys shouldn’t held in contempt for their statements about
the protocol.  Rothstein, co-founder of the now-defunct Fort Lauderdale-
based firm Rothstein, Rosenfeldt & Adler, is serving a 50-year
sentence for conspiracy to commit fraud. Investigators say his
$1.2 billion Ponzi scheme is the largest in Florida history.
Rothstein sold investors stakes in sexual- and employment-
discrimination cases that turned out to be non-existent.  The case is Coquina Investments v. Rothstein, 10-cv-60786,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida (Miami).  Murdoch Blames Underlings, Lawyers for Phone-Hack Cover-Up  Rupert Murdoch told a U.K. media-ethics inquiry that he
“failed” to prevent the phone-hacking scandal at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
News of the World tabloid and blamed employees and lawyers for
covering up the crime.  Senior executives at News Corp. were never told by lower-
ranking officials at the company’s U.K. unit about the extent to
which reporters intercepted voice mails for stories, the 81-
year-old chief executive officer told the inquiry yesterday.  “The senior executives were misinformed and shielded from
anything that was going on,” Murdoch said on his second and
final day of testimony in  London .  The company wrongly accepted conclusions from the
Metropolitan Police in London and two outside law firms that the
case was resolved, Murdoch said. The Met denied Murdoch’s
characterization and one law firm, Harbottle & Lewis LLP, has
said its work was limited to an unfair dismissal claim filed by
the reporter jailed over hacking in 2007.  “I should have gone down there and thrown all the damn
lawyers out of the place,” Murdoch said.  Tom Crone, the former legal manager for the U.K. unit, News
International, denied he helped cover up the scandal, calling
Murdoch’s claim a “shameful lie.”  “The same applies to his assertions that I misinformed
senior executives about what was going on and that I forbade
people from reporting” the scandal to James Murdoch and Rebekah Brooks, the unit’s ex-chief executive officer who was arrested
last year in police probes of phone hacking and bribery, Crone
said in a statement.  After James Murdoch testified about the scandal before a
parliamentary committee in July, Crone and the tabloid’s former
editor  Colin Myler  contradicted his claims that neither man
informed him of evidence phone hacking might be widespread.  U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron ordered the inquiry last
year after evidence emerged that voice-mail interceptions at
Murdoch’s News of the World tabloid were rampant and police
opened probes into bribery and computer hacking by journalists
at his other U.K. titles. During testimony this week, Murdoch’s
son, News Corp. Deputy Chief Operating Officer James Murdoch,
also blamed underlings for failing to contain the scandal.  For more, click here.  European Law Firms Show ‘Worrying’ Risk Complacency, Survey Says  More than 40 percent of European law firms don’t know
whether they have suffered a data breach in the past three
years, a data management company said yesterday in announcing
the results of a risk survey.  Law firms’ responses to questions on data breaches, data-
loss and non-compliance showed complacency on information
protection that made them the worst-performing industry in the
report, according to  Iron Mountain Inc. (IRM)   “If you are looking at data protection, law firms are way
behind, absolutely no doubt,” said Frank Maher, a lawyer at
Liverpool-based Legal Risk LLP. “A few of the largest firms are
just about getting it right but the vast majority barely even
get to base camp on compliance.”  Law firms averaged just 33.3 points from their survey
responses out of an ideal score of 100. The financial services
sector ranked highest with 46.3, compared to a European company-
average of 40. The  report , done with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
and released in March, questioned 600 businesses across  Europe 
including insurance, financial services and pharmaceutical
companies.  Just under 30 percent of law firms who responded said they
don’t have any training programs in place to teach employees
about risk.  Deals  Latham, Linklaters Represent Firms in Watson Purchase of Actavis  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , maker of the generic version
of Lipitor cholesterol pills, agreed to buy closely held
drugmaker  Actavis Group hf  for 4.25 billion euros ($5.6
billion), expanding its reach in Europe and  Asia .  Latham & Watkins LLP provided legal counsel to Watson while
Bank of America Corp. served as sole financial adviser. Actavis
received legal advice from Linklaters LLP. Clifford Chance LLP
was also listed as involved. Actavis had financial advice from
Blackstone Group LP and  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Latham & Watkins’s corporate team was led by partners R. Scott Shean and Charles Ruck in the firm’s Orange County,
 California , office and Michael Bond in the London office.
Associates Robbie McLaren in London, David Lee in Orange County
and Stephen Amdur in  New York  also helped.  Advice was also provided on tax matters by partners Sean
Finn in London, Nicholas DeNovio in Washington and Laurence Stein in  Los Angeles . On employee benefits matters, partners
Bradd Williamson in New York and Catherine Drinnan in London
contributed. On finance matters, partners Daniel Seale in New
York and Wesley Holmes in Orange County and associates Jesse
Sheff and Ryan deFord were involved.  Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represented Watson
in connection with the antitrust aspects. Partners included
Steven Sunshine, antitrust and competition group in Washington,
and Ingrid Vandenborre, antitrust and competition group in
Brussels.  Linklaters advised Actavis and a group of stakeholders on
the sale, the firm said in a statement. The Linklaters team was
led by private-equity partner and co-head of global private
equity sector Ian Bagshaw, tax partner Elizabeth Conway and
corporate partner Aisling Zarraga, all in London. The team was
supported by London associate Christopher Boycott. The team also
included lawyers from the firm’s London, New York, Frankfurt,
Luxembourg and Moscow offices.  Clifford Chance didn’t respond to phone calls seeking to
confirm its involvement and requesting the names of the lawyers
on the deal.  The deal will create the third-largest global generic-drug
maker with $8 billion in anticipated in 2012 revenue,
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson said April 25 in a
statement. Watson will add 5.5 million shares, valued at $330
million, to the deal in 2013 if Actavis hits certain performance
milestones this year.  “The transaction itself is commercially compelling, it’s
financially compelling, and it expands our team,” Watson Chief
Executive Officer  Paul Bisaro  said April 25 in a conference
call. “The combination of all of those things, I think, is
going to make an extremely powerful global company.”  For more, click here.  Firm News  Seyfarth Shaw Appoints New York Litigation Practice Chair  Jonathan P. Wolfert was named chairman of Seyfarth Shaw
LLP’s New York litigation practice.  Wolfert, who has been at the firm for four years, focuses
his practice on complex insurance coverage, business torts,
contract disputes, securities, intellectual property and
bankruptcy litigation.  The firm has more than 180 attorneys in offices throughout
the U.S. in the commercial litigation practice. Seyfarth Shaw
has more than 800 attorneys in offices throughout the U.S.,
including Atlanta, Boston,  Chicago , Houston, Los Angeles, New
York, Sacramento, San Francisco and Washington, as well as
internationally in London.  Moves  Allen & Overy Strengthens Russian, Capital Markets Practice  Allen & Overy LLP added Cameron Half as a U.S. counsel in
the international  capital markets  practice in the firm’s London
office.  Half was previously an executive director in the capital
markets execution team at Morgan Stanley in London, where he was
responsible for structuring and executing European equity and
equity-linked transactions, with a focus on equity offerings by
Russian businesses, the firm said in a statement.  Half has experience in SEC-registered and Rule 144A equity
and debt offerings, including IPOs and follow-on offerings and
listings for leading Russian businesses such as Evraz Group,
Polymetal, Yandex, Mechel, Globaltrans, Globalports,
Transcontainer and HMS Group, as well as for European companies
including Delta Lloyd Group, PZU SA, New World Resources and
Piraeus Bank, the firm said.  Allen & Overy’s core Russian and CIS Capital Markets team
has 12 partners and one U.S. counsel, based in Moscow and
London, specializing in equity, debt, equity-linked, structured
and derivatives products. The firm has about 4,750 staff,
including 480 partners, working in 39 offices worldwide.  Joseph Rice to Step Down as Chairman of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice  Joseph Rice III, chairman of the private-equity firm
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC and a former lawyer at Sullivan &
Cromwell LLP, will step down later this year, the company told
its investors.  Rice, 80, will leave in June, the New York-based firm said
April 25 in a letter, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. The firm declined to comment.  Clayton, Dubilier is one of the oldest private-equity
firms. Rice, a lawyer, was at Sullivan & Cromwell before working
in  investment banking  and leveraged buyouts and helped form the
firm that bears his name in 1978.  The firm specializes in so-called carve-out deals, in which
it buys unwanted or underperforming divisions of larger
corporations such as  Xerox Corp. (XRX)  and Ford Motor Co. Clayton,
Dubilier was among the first to hire former corporate
executives, known as operating partners, to advise on deals. The
firm counts former  General Electric Co. (GE)  Chairman Jack Welch
among its advisers.  Rice graduated from Williams College before earning a law
degree from Harvard Law School in 1960.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  