-- PDVSA Bond Rally Sends Yield on 2015 Note to Record Low
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 2012-04-27T19:12:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/pdvsa-2015-bond-rally-sends-yields-to-record-low-caracas-mover.html
The yield on  Petroleos de Venezuela
SA  bonds due in 2015 fell to the lowest since being issued in
2009 amid a rally in Venezuelan assets.  The yield on the 5 percent bonds due in 2015 fell 53 basis
points, or 0.53 percentage point, to 10.27 percent at 1:22 p.m.
in Caracas, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s
price rose 1.38 cents to 84.86 cents on the dollar.  The bonds are attractive because there’s little risk
additional supply will create a glut, Raymond Zucaro, who helps
manage about $230 million of emerging-market corporate debt at
SW Asset Management LLC, said in a phone interview.  “I feel comfortable being on the short end because any new
issuance will come from longer maturities,” Zucaro said.
“PDVSA is a big company with a lot of cash flow and reserves.”  Bonds from PDVSA, as the Caracas-based company is known,
have been the fourth-most traded corporate note this week,
behind debt from General Electric Co., Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., according to data measuring trades of
at least $1 million from Trace, the bond-price reporting system
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The state-owned company said April 17 that profit rose 42
percent and revenue surged to $124.8 billion last year.  Investors may be buying PDVSA bonds with shorter maturities
on speculation that the company will issue new longer-term
securities after publishing its 2011 financial report, Edgar
Jaimes, a director at financial analysis firm Arca Financial CA,
said in a phone interview.  Anticipated Issuance  “People prefer shorter maturities right now since the
market is anticipating a bond sale in the second half of May,”
Jaimes said. “We’ve also seen demand for notes due in 2017 and
2022 as the supply of those bonds being sold by the central bank
dries up.”  Venezuelan assets have rallied this year as investors
speculate that President  Hugo Chavez ’s battle with cancer may
accelerate a change of government and reverse policies that have
fueled inflation and driven away foreign investment, Zucaro
said. PDVSA’s 2015 bond has returned 20 percent this year.  Chavez has spent more time in Cuba than  Venezuela  since a
relapse of his cancer in February, traveling to the island to
receive radiation therapy. He says that he intends to seek re-
election in an October vote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  