-- Pimco’s El-Erian Says More Fed Action Remains an Option
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   B e t t y   L i u
-- 2012-04-27T16:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/pimco-s-el-erian-says-u-s-economy-growing-slower-than-needed.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Mohamed El-Erian said lower than-forecast U.S. growth suggests
additional monetary stimulus remains on option for the  Federal
Reserve  even though there is no immediate need for action.  “If we continue this weakening trend, the Fed will come
back in and try to sustain this market and this economy,” El-
Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “I don’t think
there is an immediate need now.”  The central bank remains “prepared to do more as needed,”
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on April 25 at a press
conference following a meeting of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  in Washington, where policy makers reiterated their
pledge to keep borrowing rates at record lows through 2014.  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced in the U.S., rose in the first quarter at a lower-than-
forecast 2.2 percent annual rate after a 3 percent pace,
Commerce Department figures showed today in  Washington . The
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called
for a 2.5 percent rise.  “What I worry about most is a repeat 2010 and 2011,” said
El-Erian, “where we start the year really strongly and, come
the second and third quarter, it slows down and we lose momentum
that is so important to sustain a really good recovery.”  ‘Cooling Off’  The U.S economy needs to add 250,000 to 300,000 jobs every
month if we are to “seriously start reducing unemployment to
something that is acceptable,” El Erian said. “The labor
market is cooling off and doing so too early.”  Hiring by American employers trailed forecasts in March,
with the 120,000 increase in payrolls reported by the Labor
Department the smallest in five months and less than the most
pessimistic estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.
The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.2 percent from 8.3 percent as
people left the  labor force .  Fed officials forecast April 25 the unemployment rate would
average 7.8 percent to 8 percent in the final three months of
this year versus a forecast of 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in
January, according to central tendency estimates.  The central bank is pursuing a maturity-extension program
announced in September to replace $400 billion of short-term
debt in its portfolio with longer-term securities. The Fed
 purchased  $2.3 trillion of debt in two rounds of quantitative
easing that have become known as QE1 and QE2 as part of its
efforts to support the world’s biggest economy.  ‘Retooling and Retraining’  Policy makers need to do more outside of monetary policy to
heal the economy, El Erian said.  “We need labor retooling and retraining, we need education
reform and public-finance reform,” El-Erian said. “There is a
whole set of things that need to be done that aren’t being done.
Therefore the economy is going forward, but going forward much
slower than what is needed.”  Pimco’s Total Return  fund , the world’s largest mutual fund
at $252 billion, has returned 5.9 percent in the past year,
beating 53 percent of its peers, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It gained 1.7 percent during the past month, better
than 99 percent of competitors.  Pimco, a unit of the Munich-based insurer  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
managed $1.77 trillion of assets as of March 31, including
assets managed on behalf of its parent’s affiliated companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Betty Liu in New York at 
 bliu17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  