-- Porsche Mongolian Push Shows Chinese Wealth Heading West
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-27T00:57:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/porsche-mongolian-push-shows-chinese-wealth-heading-west.html
Forget Beijing or Shanghai. Porsche
AG, Maserati and Bentley Motors Ltd. are taking the fight for
China’s rich to the deserts of Inner Mongolia.  The maker of the 911 sports car opened a dealership in
Ordos -- a sparsely populated mining city known as home to
 Genghis Khan ’s mausoleum -- in March after sales jumped 10-fold
in four years to 200 vehicles, according to the head of Porsche
China. Executives at  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Bentley and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s
Maserati said they also plan to open showrooms in the city.  “The  coal mine  and rare earth business in Ordos developed
very well in the last years,” Helmut Broeker, chief executive
officer of Porsche’s China operations, said in an interview at
the Beijing auto show this week. “There have been a lot of
people who made a lot of money.”  Luxury-car showrooms are sprouting in rural cities from
Ordos to Chairman  Mao Zedong ’s birthplace of Changsha as growth
slows in the nation’s eastern coastal megacities, where premium-
vehicle ownership levels already exceed those of the U.S. and
U.K. That means central and western China may fuel the next
phase of growth for both high-end and mainstream carmakers vying
in the world’s biggest automobile market.  “Major cities such as  Shanghai , Beijing and Guangzhou
powered the initial phase of the auto demand boom,” said  Ashvin Chotai , managing director at industry researcher Intelligence
Automotive  Asia . “Expansion into the inner provinces and
smaller cities is a natural aspect of the evolution of the car
market and will be an ongoing process in the medium and long
term.”  Beijing Parking Lot  While nationwide premium-car ownership in China lags behind
the global 10 percent average by two percentage points, their
share in eastern coastal provinces already exceed U.S. and
European levels,  Sanford Bernstein  wrote in a report this month.
For example, luxury cars accounted for 24 percent of vehicles in
Beijing in the first half of 2011, more than double the 11
percent U.S. average, according to the report.  Inland, the residents of  Inner Mongolia ’s 1.17 trillion
yuan economy ($117 billion) aren’t the only ones shopping for
$142,000 Porsche Cayenne SUVs and $584,000 Continental GT sports
cars. Xi’an, where tourists go to see Emperor Qin’s earth-glazed
Terracota Army, Changsha, Shenyang and Harbin will also see an
influx of Maseratis and Volkswagen’s Lamborghinis, according to
the companies.  Lambo’s Push  “There is a market, there is potential, and we have to
follow the market,” said Broeker, who plans to expand Porsche’s
Chinese dealership network by more than 40 percent this year,
with new showrooms planned for Jinan, Tangshan, Hohhot and
Lanzhou.  Christian Mastro, Lamborghini’s Asia-Pacific general
manager, agrees future growth may lie inland. The concentration
of mining and coal industries in those cities makes them “very
important” to China, which may become the world’s largest
market for  luxury goods  in the next decade, he told reporters at
the Beijing auto show April 22.  Helped by a government-led push to boost mining production,
cities such as Ordos -- whose average estimated economic growth
has exceeded 20 percent annually for the past decade -- have
prospered. Foxconn Technology Group, the contract manufacturer
that assembles  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, and Unilever are expanding
to Central and Western regions of China. Government officials at
Chongqing, Zhengzhou, Changsha and Chengdu all predict economic
growth in their respective cities to beat the national average.  $2.7 Trillion Market  “It used to be the poor part, but there’s more and more
wealth there,” said Mastro, who plans to start selling
Aventador and Gallardo sports cars in Changsha, Shenyang,
Taiyuan this year. “We have to be there.”  Lamborghini,  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s  Rolls Royce Plc (RR/) 
and Bentley already say their biggest market is China, where  Cap
Gemini SA (CAP)  and  Bank of America  Corp. estimate is home to half a
million millionaires with $2.7 trillion in wealth. Chinese
showrooms formed 10 out of 12 of Porsche’s best performing
dealerships globally, the company said April 22.  Deliveries of cars priced beyond 2 million yuan are set to
grow 19 percent this year to 5,278, according to data from
industry researcher IHS Automotive. By comparison, the state-
backed  China  Association of Automobile Manufacturers predicts
the total number of passenger vehicles will increase 9.5 percent
in 2012.  ‘Safe Bet’  “You can’t slow the movement down,” said Bentley CEO
Wolfgang Duerheimer, who plans to add showrooms in Tangshan,
Changsha, Dalian and Ordos this year. “China is a safe bet.”  Christian Gobber, Maserati’s managing director for China,
 Hong Kong  and  Taiwan , said he was surprised four years ago when
the automaker’s dealership in the southwest city of Kunming, the
Yunnan province capital located closer to Myanmar than Shanghai,
exceeded sales projections.  Sales at the Italian automaker’s Kunming dealership have
risen five-fold since its opening in 2008, and Maserati now
plans to increase its number of dealerships in the nation by as
much as 60 percent to 25 dealers this year, focusing on the
smaller cities outside Beijing, Shanghai.  Upscale car dealers will be targeting consumers such as Wu
Lijun, 25, in Chongqing.  ‘Bamboo Shoot’ Demand  “My car isn’t even among the better ones in my hometown,”
said Wu, who drives a 7-series sedan, as he browsed through a
magazine at a BMW dealership with his girlfriend. “A few of my
former schoolmates drive Porsches, Land Rovers. You see Rolls
Royces on the road.”  The inland migration isn’t limited to carmakers seeking to
cater to the ultra-rich.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Fiat have said
they plan to expand west.  “If you go to Guangxi, Yunnan, Sichuan and other inland
areas you will find demand coming up like bamboo shoots,” said
Jack Cheng, general manager of Fiat’s Chinese venture with
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co.  Targeting such customers isn’t easy. Porsche only hires
locals from the provinces where inland dealerships are located
and sets aside more resources to educate customers about the
brand, according to Broeker. Chinese customers are also not the
most patient buyers, said Bentley’s Duerheimer.  “When a customer comes to the dealership, sometimes for
the first time, he expects to take the car when he is leaving
the dealership,” he said. “They won’t wait three months for
you to deliver. It needs to be there now.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Engle in Beijing at 
 sengle1@bloomberg.net ;
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  