-- Postmaster Calls for House Action to Stem $25 Million-a-Day Loss
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-04-27T04:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/postmaster-calls-for-house-action-to-stem-25-million-a-day-loss.html
Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe
said it’s urgent for the U.S. House of Representatives to act by
next month on legislation to stem U.S.  Postal Service  losses
running at $25 million a day.  “We have to act,” Donahoe said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “It’s very important, I think, to get these issues
off the table in terms of the industry. Big mailers don’t want
to keep hearing the Postal Service is losing money.”  Donahoe wants a final measure that would let him close post
offices and processing plants, as the House legislation would
do, while including a provision from the Senate’s version that
would relieve the Postal Service of a $5.5 billion annual
payment for health costs.  Donahoe and the Postal Service’s board hasn’t embraced the
Senate’s version, passed April 25, because it would delay
closing mail facilities. He said early House action is necessary
so the two chambers can arrive at a compromise.  “The later we go, the more problematic of passing a
bill,” Donahoe said. “I would love to see action within the
next few weeks here and wrapped up before Memorial Day,” the
U.S. holiday on May 28.  The board criticized the Senate bill for delaying cutting a
day of mail delivery each week and for keeping open “unneeded
facilities.” Yesterday, Donahoe praised the bill’s provisions
that would effectively eliminate an annual $5.5 billion payment
for future retirees’ health-care costs and would authorize the
service to branch out into other businesses.  Moratorium on Closings  The Senate passed its bill before the May 15 lifting of a
five-month moratorium the Postal Service placed on closing post
offices and processing plants.  “I hope it puts a little pressure on the House to act,”
Connecticut independent  Joe Lieberman , the Senate bill’s
sponsor, said April 25 after the bill’s passage. He said House
consideration of the bill as late as July would be “too late.”  The Postal Service is trying to cut $20 billion in annual
operating costs by 2015 to stem losses that reached $3.3 billion
in the quarter ended Dec. 31.  The agency says it wants to close as many as 3,700 post
offices and more than 220 mail processing plants to streamline
its network as mail volume has dropped each year since 2006.  The service, which has $2 billion remaining of its $15
billion borrowing authority from the  U.S. Treasury , can continue
operating through its fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 and won’t
run out of money until next year, Donahoe said, without being
more specific.  Daily Losses  “Every day that ticks by, we lose $25 million. Every
day,” he said. “When you start in terms of months, you start
to talk in terms of billions. So time is of the essence.”  The service doesn’t need a bailout, Donahoe said, and wants
to execute its own cost-cutting plan for which it needs
congressional permission to make changes, such as paring to
five-day delivery and pulling out of a U.S. government health
plan to manage its own employee plan.  Ron Bloom , 57, a Lazard Ltd. senior adviser who counseled
the National Association of Letter Carriers union last year,
said the Postal Service is in a situation where it can’t win.  “On the one side, we tell the Post Office we want you to
break even as a business and so you would think therefore we
should tell the Post Office to run like a business,” he said at
a conference in Grapevine,  Texas , on April 25.  Rural Montana  “On the other side, we say to the Post Office, if you have
too many mail processing facilities, or you have post offices in
rural  Montana  that get visited once a day and cost $100,000 a
year to operate and $5,000 a year of revenue, we want you to
keep it open,” said Bloom, a former assistant to President
 Barack Obama  for manufacturing policy.  The service won’t close any facilities immediately once the
moratorium ends on May 15, Donahoe said, saying he hopes the
House is debating a postal measure at that point.  House Oversight  and Government Reform Committee Chairman
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican, is the sponsor of the
House’s postal legislation. He called the Senate measure “a
special-interest spending binge that would actually make things
worse.” The “wholly unacceptable” bill would keep more than
100 “excess” facilities open, he said in an e-mailed statement
April 25.  Issa’s proposal would create a board modeled after the
Defense Department’s base-closing commissions to oversee postal
closures.  Under the Senate bill, states that conduct vote-by-mail
procedures would be exempt from closures through the November
election. Rural post office closures would be delayed for at
least one year, with some exceptions. The bill also contains an
expanded appeal process for customers to protest potential
closures.  Maine Republican Susan Collins, a co-sponsor of the Senate
legislation, said on April 25 that she encouraged Issa to get
his version to the House floor “as quickly as possible” so the
chambers can negotiate in a conference committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Bernie Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 