-- Rangers Defeat Senators 2-1 to Reach NHL Playoffs Second Round
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-27T02:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/rangers-defeat-senators-2-1-to-reach-nhl-playoffs-second-round.html
Defensemen Marc Staal and Dan Girardi each scored for the first time in the postseason as the
 New York Rangers  beat the Ottawa Senators 2-1 in the deciding
seventh game of their first-round playoff series.  In front of a sold-out crowd of 18,200 at Madison Square
Garden in  New York , which hadn’t hosted a National Hockey League
decider in 18 years, the Rangers took a 2-0 lead midway through
the second period and held off the Senators to advance to the
second round for first time since 2008.  Rangers goaltender  Henrik Lundqvist  received a standing
ovation after making 26 saves, including nine in a third period
played mostly in the Senators’ offensive zone.  Ottawa goalie Craig Anderson made eight saves in the first
period, including a pair of point-blank stops on Rangers
forwards  Marian Gaborik  and Carl Hagelin, while Lundqvist had 10
saves, including three on a Senators power play at the end of
the period.  The Rangers went ahead four minutes, 46 seconds into the
second period as forward Derek Stepan fed a pass to Staal, who
beat Anderson. Girardi made it 2-0 four minutes later.  Senators captain Daniel Alfredsson, who missed three games
in the series with a concussion, scored a power play goal 2:30
later and the Rangers held the visiting team scoreless over the
final 28:26 to secure the victory.  No Canadian Teams  Ottawa’s elimination leaves Canada without a team in the
second round for the first time since 1996. The  Vancouver
Canucks , the top seed in the Western Conference and the only
other Canadian team to qualify for the postseason, lost in five
games to the  Los Angeles Kings .  Before tonight, the Rangers hadn’t played a Game 7 at
Madison Square Garden since 1994, when they clinched their most
recent Stanley Cup title on home ice against the Canucks.  The National Basketball Association’s New York Knicks lost
97-95 to the Indiana Pacers in the last Game 7 in a playoff at
the arena, in 1995.  The Rangers are now 4-0 in seventh games at Madison Square
Garden, with wins in 1992 and 1994 against the New Jersey
Devils, and the Stanley Cup-clinching win versus  Vancouver . The
team has also won its past six series when it held home ice
advantage.  New York will next play the seventh-seeded Washington
Capitals, who beat the defending-champion  Boston Bruins  in seven
games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Madison Square Garden at   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  