-- Rangers Make Fans Sweat in Game 7 Win; Devils Oust Panthers
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-27T06:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/rangers-make-fans-sweat-in-game-seven-win-devils-oust-panthers.html
After going 18 years without a
seventh game in a playoff series at Madison Square Garden, the
 New York Rangers  and their fans had to sweat for nearly half an
hour last night as the  Ottawa Senators  tried unsuccessfully to
overcome a one-goal deficit.  New York got goals from Marc Staal and Dan Girardi, and 26
saves from goaltender Henrik Lundqvist to defeat the Senators 2-
1 last night and advance to the second round of the National
Hockey League playoffs for the first time since 2008.  Lundqvist received a standing ovation from a sold-out crowd
of 18,200 in New York after stopping nine attempts on goal in a
third period played mostly in the Senators’ offensive zone. The
Rangers held the visiting team scoreless over the final 28
minutes, 26 seconds to secure the victory.  “We’ve played like that all year long, especially in the
playoffs,” Staal told reporters. “Game 7 you have to make
those big blocks and take those hits, and do whatever you can to
win. It was a good test for us.”  The Rangers are 3-1 favorites to win the Stanley Cup this
year, according to R.J. Bell of Pregame.com. The St. Louis Blues
are 4-1; the Philadelphia Flyers and  Nashville Predators  are 5-
1; the Los Angeles Kings and  New Jersey Devils  are 8-1 and the
Phoenix Coyotes and  Washington Capitals  are 10-1.  At BankAtlantic Center in Sunrise,  Florida , Adam Henrique
scored his second goal of the game 3:47 into the second overtime
period to give the Devils a 3-2 victory against the  Florida
Panthers  in Game 7 of their series.  Henrique gave the Devils a 1-0 lead 89 seconds into the
first period and Stephen Gionta added a second goal in the next
period. Stephen Weiss and Marcel Goc tied the game 2-2 in the
third period for the Panthers.  The Rangers hadn’t won a Game 7 on home ice since 1994 --
the last time New York was the top seed in the Eastern
Conference and won the  Stanley Cup .  Visitors Have Advantage  Home ice has provided little advantage for teams this
postseason, with the visitor winning 30 of 48 games so far. The
Rangers, who already had dropped two playoff games at home to
Ottawa, were able to take advantage last night of a crowd waving
white towels that read “Blueshirt Pride.”  Fans gathered to cheer more than an hour before the puck
was dropped, chanting in front of an oversized blue jersey
draped over the statue of Samuel Rea, former president of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company, who supervised the building of
the train station underneath the arena.  The noise level inside the building grew as the game
progressed, reaching a crescendo in the final minutes and as
pyrotechnics exploded at the end.  “We were talking about it in Ottawa, if we could bring it
back here, the fans would be behind us,” Girardi said.  Scoreless Opening  Lundqvist and Ottawa goalie Craig Anderson stifled scoring
opportunities in a scoreless first period.  The Rangers broke the tie 4:46 into the second period, when
a blocked clearing attempt gave  New York  a two-on-one. Forward
Derek Stepan fed a cross-ice pass to Staal, who beat Anderson
for his first goal of the postseason. Girardi made it 2-0 four
minutes later on an uncontested shot from in front of the Ottawa
goal.  Senators captain  Daniel Alfredsson , who missed three games
in the series with a concussion, pulled Ottawa within 2-1 on a
power-play goal with eight minutes left in the period.  New York, which allowed 1.86 goals per game during the
series, didn’t allow the Senators to get any closer.  “They ramped it up on us there in the second half of the
third,” Rangers coach  John Tortorella  said.  “That’s the true
identity of our team there, blocking shots.”  No Canadians  Ottawa’s elimination leaves  Canada  without a team in the
second round for the first time since 1996. The  Vancouver
Canucks , the top seed in the Western Conference and the only
other Canadian team to qualify for the postseason, lost in five
games to the  Los Angeles Kings .  The Rangers are now 4-0 in seventh games at Madison Square
Garden, with wins in 1992 and 1994 against the New Jersey Devils
and the Stanly Cup-clinching win versus  Vancouver . The team has
also won its past six playoff series when it held home-ice
advantage, which it also will hold in the second round against
the Washington Capitals.  Tortorella said his team should be proud of the win -- for
about an hour.  “Really, because this next series starts quickly,” he
said. “Sometimes the first round is the hardest round, and
that’s all this is, is one round.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams at Madison Square Garden at   enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  