-- TransAlta Abandoning Canada Carbon-Capture Project
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-27T19:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/transalta-abandoning-canada-carbon-capture-project.html
TransAlta Corp. (TA) , Canada’s largest
publicly traded electricity producer, abandoned a project to
trap and store emissions from an Alberta coal-fired power plant,
delaying global efforts to foster a carbon dioxide capture and
storage industry.  TransAlta said the potential revenue from selling carbon
didn’t justify the cost of completing the project, according to
a  statement  yesterday.  Carbon-capture and storage projects in at least five
countries have been delayed or canceled in the last year over
environmental concerns and questions about the technology’s
economics that thwarted TransAlta.  ‘The technology works and  capital costs  are in line with
our expectations,’’ Dawn Farrell, the Calgary-based company’s
chief executive officer, said yesterday on a conference call.
“However, the markets for CO2 sales and the price of emission
reductions are not sufficient at this time to allow the project
to go ahead.”  Project Pioneer would have been able to trap as much as 1
million tons of carbon dioxide a year from the flues at the
Keephills 3 coal-fired power plant west of  Edmonton , and then
sell the gas to energy companies to use in enhanced oil recovery
operations.  Construction was due to start this year. TransAlta was
working with Enbridge Inc., Canada’s largest oil-pipeline
company, Capital Power Corp., and the provincial and federal
governments.  ‘Little Certainty’  “It is no surprise the partners abandoned the project,”
Cheryl Wilson, carbon-capture and storage analyst at Bloomberg
New Energy Finance in Washington, said today in an e-mail.  The current price for carbon dioxide doesn’t support the
cost of the project, and there’s “little certainty on future
revenue,” she said. “Pioneer had too many factors working
against it.”  The U.K. canceled plans in October to provide 1 billion
pounds ($1.6 billion) for a carbon-capture project in  Scotland ,
and expects to offer the funds to other projects. An initiative
in Italy by Enel SpA is on hold, and Vattenfall AB scrapped a
1.5 billion-euro ($2 billion) system in Germany in December.
American Electric Power Co. shelved plans in July for the first
U.S. commercial-scale carbon-capture initiative.  Efforts to introduce CCS are falling behind,  Richard Jones ,
deputy executive director at the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency , told energy ministers from 23 nations April 25 in
London.  The International Energy Agency estimates that 3,400 CCS
plants are needed by 2050 to meet a goal of cutting  carbon
emissions  in half.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  