-- TransCanada Quarterly Profit Drops on Falling Power Price
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-04-27T21:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/transcanada-quarterly-profit-drops-on-falling-power-price.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , the company
proposing to build the Keystone XL oil pipeline, said first-
quarter profit declined on falling power prices.  Net income fell to C$352 million ($359 million), or 50
cents a share, from C$411 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier,
Calgary-based TransCanada said in a statement today. Excluding
losses from financial contracts, per-share profit was two cents
less than the 54-cent average of 12  analysts’ estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Sales rose 2.3 percent to C$1.91 billion.  The company, which owns 14 power plants and ships natural
gas and oil on its pipelines, may convert some capacity on its
gas mainline to carry oil from  Alberta  to eastern  Canada , Chief
Executive Officer  Russ Girling  told reporters after
TransCanada’s annual meeting today in Calgary.  The line could carry 800,000 barrels daily to refineries
from Canada’s oil sands, using capacity from tubes that have
been idled because of a decline in demand for gas and competing
pipelines to U.S. markets.  “It’s too premature to talk about” a potential startup
date, Girling said. “The size of the pipe could range from 30
to 40 inches, depending on what lines you’re talking about and
those kinds of things.”  TransCanada’s earnings were hurt by lower electricity
prices in western Canada and lost revenue from planned
maintenance at a nuclear plant in Ontario, Steven Paget, an
analyst with FirstEnergy Capital Corp. in Calgary, said in an
interview before earnings were released.  Falling Gas Prices  Power prices will be lower this year because of a decline
in  gas prices  and reduced demand from a mild winter, said Paget,
who rates the company at market perform, the equivalent of a
hold recommendation.  President  Barack Obama  in January rejected TransCanada’s
application to build the 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) Keystone
XL pipeline, which would bring crude from Canada’s oil sands to
the  Texas  Gulf Coast. The president said the rejection was
because a decision deadline imposed by Congress didn’t allow
enough time to weigh environmental risks.  TransCanada has said it plans to reapply for a new permit
for the northern leg of the pipeline that would run from Alberta
to  Nebraska . With Obama’s blessing, the company may begin
construction as soon as June on the southern leg of the pipeline
from  Oklahoma  to Texas. That segment, now called the Gulf Coast
Project, will be in service by mid-to-late 2013, according to
the statement.  TransCanada rose 0.1 percent today to C$43.19 at the close
in Toronto. The shares, which have eight buy, seven hold and two
sell  ratings  from analysts, have dropped 3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  