-- Romania’s Cabinet Falls After Losing No-Confidence Vote
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-04-27T17:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/romanian-govt-falls-in-no-confidence-vote-early-results-show.html
Romanian President Traian Basescu
designated opposition leader Victor Ponta as Prime Minister
after Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu’s three-month-old government lost a
no-confidence vote in Parliament.  Ponta, 39, is a former prosecutor and has been heading the
 Social Democrats  since 2010. He will begin talks to form a new
government in the next 10 days and then seek the support of
Parliament in a vote. The leu weakened the most in more than six
weeks against the euro and stocks fell after the government
collapsed today.  Governments are crumbling across the European Union as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushes for austerity to prevent
the euro area from breaking up and a debt crisis from spreading.
The ouster of Ungureanu took place as the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union were reviewing the country’s
progress under a precautionary-loan accord.  “This is a democratic process which showed that the
Ungureanu government lost its parliamentary majority,” Basescu
told reporters in Bucharest while naming Ponta. “There is no
reason for panic in the markets because the country has a
financing buffer at the  Finance Ministry .”  Markets Fall  The leu depreciated 0.4 percent to 4.4008 per euro at the
close of the trading session in Bucharest, compared with a
record low of 4.4012 in June 2010. The country’s benchmark  BET
index (BET)  slid as much as 0.9 percent to 5,304.44.  The Social Democrats and Liberals toppled Unugureanu’s
government with 235 votes in favor of toppling the
administration, four more than the 231 needed to oust the
Cabinet in the 460-member legislature.  Romania, which secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.61 billion)
precautionary loan from the IMF and the EU in 2011 to protect it
from the debt crisis, is trying to reassure investors it will
keep fiscal discipline and cut the  budget deficit  to 1.9 percent
of gross domestic product this year after 4.4 percent in 2011.
It hasn’t drawn any funds so far.  “The missions will continue their technical work with the
Romanian authorities and provide them with the preliminary
findings and policy recommendations,” the IMF said in an e-
mailed statement today. “The missions expect to return to
Bucharest to resume the formal discussions with the new
government when it is formed. We have every expectation that
 Romania  will continue to observe its economic policy commitments
to its international partners.”  Deputies Defect  Ungureanu was unable to fend off defections in the former
ruling coalition in his first no-confidence motion. His
predecessor, Emil Boc, survived 10 such motions before he
stepped down Feb. 6 to ease political and social pressure
stemming from anti-austerity nationwide protests. The opposition
used today’s motion to accuse Ungureanu’s government of a lack
of transparency in the sale of state-owned assets and in
approving money transfers to local authorities, ahead of local
elections scheduled for June 10.  Falling Support  Voter support for the coalition that backed Boc and
Ungureanu’s governments fell by more than half in the past two
years to about 18 percent after slashing public wages 25 percent
and increased taxes to meet international pledges. Protests,
sometimes violent, over austerity measures led to Boc’s
resignation on Feb. 6.  The debt crisis in  Europe  has already resulted in the
ouster of leaders in Ireland, Portugal,  Greece , Italy, Spain,
Slovenia, Slovakia, and Finland.  Dutch elections may be held Sept. 12, Prime Minister  Mark Rutte  said after the  Freedom Party  withdrew its support for the
minority Cabinet on April 21. French bonds slid after Socialist
Francois Hollande took more votes than incumbent  Nicolas Sarkozy 
in the first round of presidential election.  Final results from today’s vote showed that nine of the 248
lawmakers present supported the Romanian government while four
ballots were spoiled.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  