-- Romney Focuses on Economy Vying With Obama for Youth Vote
-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-04-28T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/romney-focuses-on-economy-vying-with-obama-for-youth-vote.html
The  U.S. economy  is headed toward a
“Greece-like setting” with limited job opportunities for young
people, presumed Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney 
told college students in Ohio as he and President  Barack Obama 
compete for support from young voters.  Instead of focusing entirely on improving the economy when
he inherited a recession in 2009, Obama pursued “his own agenda
to transform America” that led to an anemic recovery and didn’t
set a course for future growth, Romney said yesterday at
 Otterbein University  in Westerville, a suburb of Columbus.  “At some point we have ceased being the kind of free-
enterprise nation the founders envisioned,” Romney said.
“That’s what’s at risk, that’s what’s at stake in this
election.”  Romney’s visit to the private school followed Obama’s trips
this week to college campuses in three other swing states --
 North Carolina ,  Iowa  and  Colorado  -- and an appearance on NBC’s
“Late Night With  Jimmy Fallon ,” all efforts to appeal to young
voters.  Harvard Poll  Obama is preferred over Romney, by 43 percent to 26
percent, among Americans ages 18 to 29, a group often referred
to as millennials because they came of age in this millennium,
according to a nationwide survey by Harvard University’s
Institute of Politics released this week. Almost a third of
those polled were undecided.  The efforts by Romney and the president to woo a youth vote
that could prove crucial in a close election comes as Obama and
Republican congressional leaders argue over how to keep  interest
rates  for government student loans from doubling on July 1, as
graduates face a weak job market.  The Republican-led House passed yesterday a measure to
extend the current 3.4 percent interest rate on Stafford higher-
education loans and to pay for the $5.9 billion cost by
abolishing a public-health fund.  Obama opposes that method of covering the bill’s cost, and
the administration says he would veto it. Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, has proposed financing the bill by
raising taxes for some high-earners.  Romney didn’t mention the interest rate issue in his speech
or during a round-table meeting with seven Otterbein students
beforehand. In comments earlier this week, he said he agreed
with Obama on stopping the rise in  student-loan  rates while
blaming the administration for an economy in which he says too
many recent college graduates can’t find jobs that match their
skills and education.  ‘Becoming Greece’  Romney told his Otterbein audience that Obama’s
concentration on passing the overhaul of the health-care system
when he first took office and the escalation of U.S. deficits
have put the country “on track to becoming  Greece ,” with its
debt crisis.  “There’s no question in my mind that if this president
were to be re-elected, we will ultimately face a Greece-like
setting where people will wonder whether they want to loan money
to America, and loan money to America at low interest rates,”
Romney said.  The former Massachusetts governor drew sustained applause
when he criticized Obama’s tax policy and said, “If your
priority is to punish people, President Obama’s the right guy to
vote for. If your priority is to get more good jobs, I’m the
right guy to vote for.”  Obama’s Campaigning  Obama plans a May 5 rally at  Ohio State University  in
Columbus and another event later in the day at Virginia
Commonwealth University in Richmond to formally kick off his re-
election campaign.  Ohio has been a bellwether in modern presidential politics,
voting for the winner in every election since 1964. No
Republican has won the presidency without winning Ohio, and the
last Democrat to win without Ohio was  John Kennedy  in 1960.  Obama carried Ohio with 51.5 percent of the vote in 2008,
after former President  George W. Bush  won the state in 2000 and
2004. The state was hit hard during the economic downturns of
the past decade, losing 556,700 jobs, or 10 percent, from 2000
to 2010, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics . Only
 Michigan  lost a higher percentage of jobs during that period,
federal data show.  The state’s economy has improved since then and had an
unemployment rate of 7.5 percent in March, lower than the 8.2
percent national rate. The state ranked 7th in its economic
recovery in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the
previous year, according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States.  Job Creation  Ohio  Governor John Kasich, a Republican who endorsed Romney
April 19 after previously remaining neutral in the race,
appeared with him yesterday and said the former private-equity
executive has a record of knowing how to create jobs.  “While we’re doing much better in Ohio now, the problem
is, we still have obstacles in our way,” Kasich said at the
round-table discussion Romney held to ask graduating seniors
about their career plans.  As the students and Romney munched on hamburgers, Romney
asked them how they financed their education, whether they
thought they had an education to match available jobs and how
their job search was going.  Angela Robley, a business-marketing major from  Indiana ,
said she found a part-time job with a small company that does
search-engine optimization.  “Not easy to do these days,” Romney said.  Romney’s round-table “made a compelling case for President
Obama’s re-election,” Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith said
in an e-mail.  “As Ohio Governor  John Kasich  touted the economic recovery
underway in Ohio, Otterbein students said that we need a
president who will make investments in key, job-creating sectors
like education and research,” Smith said. “That’s exactly what
President Obama is pursuing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net ; 