-- Romney Would Deny American Dream by Closing HUD, Donovan Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-04-27T17:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/romney-would-deny-american-dream-by-closing-hud-donovan-says.html
Mitt Romney , the presumptive
Republican presidential nominee, would be denying Americans
their most important savings vehicle if he eliminates the
Department of Housing and Urban Development as he has suggested,
agency Secretary Shaun Donovan said today.  Home ownership is the way many Americans pay for big-ticket
items such as college and retirement, Donovan said.  “When you say, ‘Let the market hit bottom. Government
shouldn’t be engaged in supporting housing in any way,’ what
you’re talking about is telling those families who want to send
their kids to college, who want to start a small business, who
want to save for retirement that they’re going to give up on
those dreams,” Donovan said.  “That’s something we are not
willing to accept.”  Romney said at a fundraiser he might get rid of the
cabinet-level agency at a private Florida fundraiser this month.
 His father,  George Romney , served as HUD secretary during the
administration of President  Richard Nixon  in the early 1970s.  “I’m going to take a lot of departments in  Washington , and
agencies, and combine them,” Romney said, according to NBC
News, which reported it overheard the comments from a sidewalk
outside of the fundraiser. “Things like Housing and Urban
Development, which my dad was head of, that might not be around
later.”  Donovan said he interpreted Romney’s comment as a criticism
of the federal government’s role in housing rather than a
recommendation for a bureaucratic reorganization.  “It’s a fundamental question of whether we ought to be
engaged in the work that we’re doing,” he said.  HUD’s Importance  HUD runs the  Federal Housing Administration , which insures
mortgages for buyers with low down payments.  The agency also
runs the government’s housing programs for the poor and
disabled.  “Fundamentally, if you ask the question, ‘Does what HUD
provides to the most vulnerable Americans, is it necessary
today?  Is it more important than it’s ever been?’ The answer is
yes,” Donovan said.  The Romney campaign didn’t immediately respond to a request
for comment.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has said the
government footprint in the housing market needs to shrink, he
said. The administration “would seriously consider” releasing
a proposal for housing finance reform “if it would be helpful
in reaching resolution,” Donovan said in an interview today on
Bloomberg Television’s InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .  Still, he said, it is up to Congress to come up with a plan
for winding down  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the mortgage-
finance companies operating under U.S. conservatorship.  “We need a bipartisan consensus on reform to emerge,” he
said. “This really is about Congress taking that step.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  