-- Rupiah Set for Third Weekly Decline on Inflation; Bonds Drop
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-04-27T09:11:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/rupiah-set-for-third-weekly-decline-on-inflation-bonds-drop.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah was poised for a
third weekly decline and bonds fell as a plan to limit the sale
of subsidized fuel threatened to stoke inflation.  The government is ready to start restricting sales of
subsidized fuel in May, President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono said
yesterday.  Bank Indonesia  predicts consumer prices will rise 4.7
percent this year if gasoline sales are limited, Perry Warjiyo,
director for economic and monetary-policy research, said April
23.  Standard & Poor’s  kept Indonesia’s credit rating at one
level below investment grade this week, citing “policy
slippages” such as the failure to reduce energy subsidies.  “The rupiah’s weakness this week is driven by inflation
concern and the S&P decision,” said Taufan Tito, a Jakarta-
based foreign-exchange dealer at PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia.
“Inflation has shown signs of picking up, even before the fuel
policy is implemented.”  The rupiah dropped 0.1 percent this week to 9,189 per
dollar as of 4:05 p.m. in Jakarta, extending its monthly loss to
0.3 percent, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency advanced 0.1 percent today.  One-month implied volatility, which measures exchange-rate
swings used to price options, fell 75 basis points, or 0.75
percentage point, this week to 5.75 percent, the lowest level
since August. It was unchanged today.  Consumer-price gains accelerated for the first time in
seven months to 3.97 percent in March, compared with 3.56
percent in February, official data show.  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
climbed four basis points this week to 5.92 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rate increased two basis
points today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  