-- Goldman Says Russia Must Revamp Market in Investment Jostle
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-04-27T09:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/russia-must-revamp-market-in-jostle-for-investment-goldman-says.html
Russia  must push ahead with plans
to overhaul its financial markets and focus on taming inflation
as it jostles with emerging nations such as  Brazil  for global
investor cash, according to  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   The world’s biggest energy exporter may attract more
investment by meeting a July target to allow foreign funds
access to its local  debt market , said Francesco Garzarelli,
Goldman Sachs’s co-head of macro and markets research. The step
is part of a plan to turn Moscow into a global financial hub.  “There’s a lot of money flowing around and it’s yielding
close to nothing,” Garzarelli said April 25 in an interview in
Moscow. “If someone’s there to sell a credible structural
story, it’s easy to come up on the map. But it has to be
followed through.”  Russia, which has endured $340 billion in net private
 capital outflows  since 2007, has merged its two biggest  stock
exchanges  and is creating a central depositary to help lure
investment. A plan to allow foreign investors to settle ruble
bond trades through Euroclear Bank SA, the world’s biggest bond-
settlement system, from July is in doubt after the Interfax news
service reported a presidential working group voted against the
idea on April 20.  Garzarelli highlighted Brazil’s success in nurturing a
domestic institutional investor base and improving financial
infrastructure.  Off The Map  “Russia’s not entirely on the map here,” he said.
“There’s foreign funding, they’re trying to develop some of the
domestic markets, but it doesn’t seem like a story that captures
the non-specialists.”  Mexican five-year domestic bonds with the same  credit
rating  as ruble debt and available on Euroclear yield 233 basis
points less than similar-dated Russian OFZs. The spread was as
low as 111 basis points in July.  Russian local-currency debt has returned 6.7 percent in the
last year, compared with a 20 percent advance for real-
denominated Brazilian bonds, according to JPMorgan EMBIG
indexes. The ruble-based  Micex (INDEXCF)  index is up 4.1 percent in 2012
compared with an 9.6 percent advance for Brazil’s  Bovespa. (IBOV)   Brazil’s central bank has been a “key element” in the
South American nation’s development as policy makers gained
credibility by controlling price growth, according to
Garzarelli. Annual inflation as measured by the IPCA-15 index
slowed to 5.25 percent in mid-April, the lowest rate since
October 2010. Prices rose 6.5 percent last year.  Inflation Struggle  After bringing the annual rate of  price growth  to a post-
Soviet low of 3.7 percent in February and March, Russia’s
central bank may struggle to meet its 2012 inflation target of 5
percent to 6 percent, Chairman Sergey Ignatiev said April 5.  The regulator says it plans to hold the rate at 4 percent
to 5 percent in 2014, when it will complete a transition to
inflation targeting instead of focusing on the  exchange rate .  Slower inflation has helped Russian debt offer positive
real  interest rates . Still, that alone may not be enough to
tempt investors away from other nations, Garzarelli said.  “You probably need to see market infrastructure develop in
addition to the enticement of the yield,” he said. “You’re
basically asking people to redefine their emerging-market
allocation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  