-- Sandvik Shares Jump Most Since 2008 on Orders: Stockholm Mover
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-04-27T10:35:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/sandvik-shares-jump-most-since-2008-on-orders-stockholm-mover.html
Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest
maker of metal-cutting tools, rose the most in more than three
years after reporting first-quarter profit that beat analysts’
estimates as demand grew in the Americas.  Sandvik shares  soared  as much as 12 percent, the most in
intraday trading since Nov. 24, 2008, and were up 11 percent at
102.4 kronor as of 12:13 p.m. in Stockholm. The stock has gained
21 percent this year, valuing the Sandviken, Sweden-based
company at 128 billion kronor ($19 billion).  “It was really a marvelous performance across the
businesses,” Martin Prozesky, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London  who recommends buying the stock, said
by phone. “ Latin America  is good for mining, which helps
Sandvik,” and the tooling unit that sells equipment to
customers such as carmakers “is the key thing that drives the
U.S. business for them.”  Net income rose to 2.5 billion kronor from 2.03 billion
kronor a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
Eleven analysts on average had estimated a profit of 1.94
billion kronor in a Bloomberg  survey . Sales rose 13 percent to
24.8 billion kronor.  “We’ve had a strong positive trend in  North America ,”
Chief Executive Officer Olof Faxander said in a phone interview.
“The automotive industry looks totally OK, and the aerospace
and energy sectors are very strong areas for us there.”  Sandvik began a review of its organization last year aimed
at boosting profitability under Faxander, who joined from
Swedish steelmaker  SSAB AB (SSABA)  a year ago. In September, Sandvik
began reorganizing into five units from three, and said it may
eventually sell the materials-technology business.  Sandvik’s order intake grew 16 percent in the quarter to
28.9 billion kronor, which the company said was its most ever.
Orders rose 13 percent on a constant currency basis.  The manufacturer is scaling back the workforce to focus on
more profitable operations. It is eliminating about 900 jobs,
including some 500 in its materials technology unit, Faxander
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  