-- Sanofi First-Quarter Net Climbs 13% on Genzyme, Lantus
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2012-04-27T16:07:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/sanofi-first-quarter-net-climbs-13-on-genzyme-lantus.html
Sanofi,  France ’s largest drugmaker,
said first-quarter profit rose 13 percent, helped by the
purchase of U.S. biotechnology Genzyme Corp. and higher sales of
diabetes medicine Lantus.  Profit excluding some costs, which Sanofi calls business
net income, was 2.44 billion euros ($3.2 billion), or 1.85 euros
a share, compared with 2.17 billion euros, or 1.66 euros, a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said in a statement today. That
beat the 2.2 billion-euro average estimate of 11 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  led the purchase
of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Genzyme, the largest maker of
medicines for rare genetic disorders, one year ago for $20.1
billion. The 52-year-old CEO has been overseeing Genzyme’s
integration and working to solve the U.S. biotech’s
manufacturing problems, which led to shortages of the Cerezyme
and Fabrazyme medicines.  It’s a “strong set of results this morning for  Sanofi (SAN) ,
clearly benefiting not only from the Genzyme acquisition but
also from the extremely strong performance of our growth
platforms, and as always we’ve been exercising extremely strong
cost control,” Viehbacher told reporters on a conference call
today.  Sales Gain  Net sales rose 9.4 percent to 8.51 billion euros in the
first quarter, matching analysts’ estimates.  Sanofi  shares  climbed 2.5 percent to 58.21 euros in Paris,
giving the French drugmaker a  market value  of 78.1 billion
euros. As of yesterday, the stock had  returned  15 percent over
the past year including reinvested dividends, compared with 19
percent for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index. (BEPHARM)   Sanofi reiterated its full-year forecast. The company said
Feb. 8 it was expecting profit to drop as much as 15 percent in
2012, hurt by generic competition to its Plavix blood thinner
and Avapro hypertension drug in the U.S.  It was a “strong start to 2012,”  Alistair Campbell  and
other London-based analysts at Berenberg Bank wrote in a note to
clients today. It’s “perhaps a little disappointing that Sanofi
chose to leave guidance unchanged but, given the difficult
quarters ahead, it is understandable.”  Viehbacher has been building up Sanofi’s diabetes, cancer,
consumer health-care, emerging markets and animal-health
businesses, the so-called growth platforms, to help reduce the
company’s dependence on patented pharmaceuticals. The takeover
of Genzyme was engineered to give Sanofi access to innovative
treatments that are less vulnerable to generic competition.  Genzyme Helps  First-quarter revenue from the newly reorganized Genzyme,
on a constant structure basis and excluding currency
fluctuations, climbed 14 percent to 400 million euros, with
sales of Fabrazyme up 50 percent to 47 million euros.  Revenue from the Myozyme and Lumizyme medicines for Pompe
disease climbed 17 percent to 112 million euros. Cerezyme
brought in 149 million euros, up 5.8 percent in the quarter.  Manufacturing glitches at Genzyme’s Allston Landing plant
in 2009 led to shortages of Cerezyme and Fabrazyme, driving down
the U.S. biotech’s share price and making the takeover possible.  Genzyme  began shipping Fabrazyme produced in its new plant
in Framingham,  Massachusetts , last month. Patients in the U.S.
have returned to full dosing of the medicine, which treats a
rare illness known as Fabry disease, Sanofi said today. In
 Europe , the process of moving the most severely affected
patients to full dose of the drug also has begun, the company
said.  Increasing Production  Production of Genzyme’s rare disease therapies is
increasing, Viehbacher told reporters in Cambridge on March 8.
The number of Fabrazyme vials sold will almost double this year,
he said.  First-quarter results are “solid and reassuring,” Vincent Meunier, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in Paris, said in a
telephone interview. “Genzyme sales had double-digit growth,
Lantus has been accelerating and performance in  emerging markets 
also was strong.”  Emerging market sales climbed 9.9 percent to 2.6 billion
euros at constant exchange rates in the quarter, the company
said.  Insulin  Revenue from the company’s Lantus insulin jumped 21 percent
to 1.12 billion euros in the quarter, led by higher sales in the
U.S.,  China ,  Brazil ,  Russia ,  Mexico  and  Japan , Sanofi said.  Sales of the cancer drug Eloxatin more than doubled to 384
million euros in the first three months of the year.  Revenue from Taxotere, also a cancer treatment, dropped 61
percent to 150 million euros. Sales of the Lovenox blood thinner
retreated 9.8 percent to 526 million euros while revenue from
the Copaxone multiple sclerosis medicine retreated 79 percent to
24 million euros. Plavix, which faces generic competition in the
U.S. next month, brought in 505 million euros, up 4.3 percent.  The first three months of the year were “an easy quarter
in a tough year” for Sanofi,  Mark Purcell  and other analysts at
 Barclays Capital  in  London  wrote in an April 23 note to clients.  Sanofi will continue seeking “bolt-on” acquisitions to
expand in areas such as consumer health care, Viehbacher told
reporters this morning, declining to comment on a potential
interest in  Amylin Pharmaceuticals Inc. (AMLN) , the maker of the
diabetes drugs Bydureon and Byetta.  “The Genzyme acquisition has gone extremely well,” he
added. “The company is in good shape. We don’t particularly
need to do any M&A. We will continue to be opportunistic.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  