-- Sarkozy Warns Le Pen Voters That Abstention Favors Hollande
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-04-27T17:36:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/sarkozy-warns-le-pen-voters-that-abstention-favors-hollande.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
warned National Front supporters against abstaining in the
second round of the presidential elections, saying it will elect
Socialist Francois Hollande and encourage immigration.  “If you abstain, you must assume your responsibility if
Hollande is elected and goes on to regularize all illegal
migrants and give the vote to foreigners,” Sarkozy said today
at a rally in Dijon.  National Front leader Marine Le Pen took third place in the
first round of the elections on April 22, winning 17.9 percent
and making her supporters the king makers in a May 6 run-off
between Hollande and Sarkozy. Hollande took 28.6 percent and
Sarkozy 27.2 percent in the opening round.  Hollande says he’s never called for regularizing all
undocumented workers. His program does call for non-Europeans to
have the right to vote in municipal elections if they have been
in  France  for five years, a position that Sarkozy made in 2008
before changing his mind.  Sarkozy today denied he’s trying to attract National Front
voters by hardening his positions on immigration and crime.  “Since Sunday I have not made a single proposition that
hasn’t been in my platform for months,” Sarkozy said in Dijon.  “The message they gave is that they want to preserve their
way of life,” Sarkozy said about Le Pen’s voters. “The message
they gave is that they don’t want a country where they no longer
feel a national identity. Should I not speak to those 6.5
million people? Should I not listen to them?”  All polls since April 23 show Hollande winning by between 8
percentage points and 12 percentage points, with only about half
of Le Pen’s supporters backing Sarkozy.  France accepts about 200,000 immigrants a year, about 0.3
percent of the country’s population. Le Pen wants to cut that to
10,000 annually. Sarkozy wants to cut it to 100,000. Hollande
won’t give a target, saying parliament should set the number
each year based on economic conditions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  