-- Second IPO Below Target as Economy Slows: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 2012-04-29T16:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/second-ipo-below-target-as-economy-slows-china-overnight.html
Acquity Group Ltd. (AQ)  became the
second Chinese company in 2012 to raise less than planned in a
U.S. share sale as a slowing economy and accounting concerns
sent New York-traded stocks lower in the past year.  Acquity, a Hong Kong-based online advertising company,
slipped 4.2 percent to $5.75 on its first day of trading in New
York, after raising 40 percent less that targeted in its initial
public offering. The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the
most-traded Chinese stocks listed in the U.S., rose 0.9 percent
last week, paring its 12 percent tumble in the past 12 months.  “The IPO market is quite choppy particularly because the
IPO ahead of us was priced below the range and dropped at the
get-go, which cast some shadow on us,” George Lu, the executive
chairman and group chief executive of Acquity, said in a phone
interview. Concerns over “governance and accounting” of
Chinese companies also affected the stock valuation, he said.  Vipshop Holdings Ltd. (VIPS) , a Guangzhou-based online retailer,
has slumped 18 percent since raising 39 percent less than it
intended last month in the first Chinese IPO in the U.S. since
August.  China’s economy  expanded at the slowest pace in two
years last quarter as the European debt crisis and sluggish U.S.
recovery cut global demand for exported goods. Short sellers
such as  Muddy Waters  LLC have accused companies including Sino-
Forest Corp. of misstating assets or earnings in reports to
investors.  Below Target  Acquity sold 5.56 million American depositary receipts for
$6 each for a total of $33.3 million, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. The company initially sought as much as $55.6
million by offering the ADRs for $8 to $10, according to an
April 23 filing.  In March, Vipshop raised $71.5 million by selling 11
million ADRs for $6.50 each, below the target range of $8.50 and
$10.50.  China Auto Rental Holdings Inc. (CARH) , a Beijing-based car-
rental provider, postponed its IPO on April 24, citing adverse
“market conditions.”  The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.3 percent last week
to $37.87, the first decline this month. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  rose 1.8 percent last week.  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  lost 0.4 percent last week
after  China Cosco Holdings Co. (1919) , the nation’s biggest publicly
traded shipping company, reported worse-than-expected losses in
the first quarter and  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., (SNP)  Asia’s
biggest refiner, posted a slump in net income.  ‘Goldilocks Predicament’  “It’s tough to get conviction about Chinese equities right
now,”  Kevin Shacknofsky , who helps manage about $5 billion for
Alpine Mutual Funds, said by phone in  New York . “China is in a
Goldilocks predicament in which it’s not strong enough for
stable growth and it’s not weak enough for stimulus.”  China has cut reserve requirements for banks twice since
November in a bid to stoke lending. Since July, the nation has
kept benchmark rates on hold at the highest level since 2008.  Acquity had planned to use about $20 million of the
proceeds from its IPO to expand in  North America  and Europe, and
about $10 million will be invested in the Chinese market,
according to its April 23 filing. The company’s current
customers are all based in the U.S. and include General Motors
Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., the filing shows.  “We are in the business of helping American companies get
into China as well as Chinese brands expand into the global
market,” said Acquity’s Lu. “There is some negative sentiment
in the market currently toward China-related stocks.”  Focus Media Holding Ltd. (FMCN) , a Chinese digital advertising
company, gained 6.8 percent to $25.33 on April 27, the biggest
one-day advance since March 2.  ‘Impairment Losses’  The Shanghai-based company, which Muddy Waters has accused
of overstating its advertising networks, filed its 2011 annual
report on a Form 20-F and revised its fourth-quarter net income
to 27 cents a share from a previously reported 55 cents because
of impairment losses, according to a statement distributed by
PRNewswire. Focus said it recorded $38.3 million of impairment
losses in the quarter because of a decline in the value of its
investment in  VisionChina Media Inc. (VISN)   Focus amending its fourth-quarter earnings is “a
reflection of the decline of the non-core assets they’ve
invested in,”  James Lee , an analyst at Credit Agricole
Securities USA Inc., said in New York in a phone interview. “I
would be much more concerned if there was any deterioration in
its core business.”  Muddy Waters said Nov. 21 that  Focus Media  exaggerated its
network, sending the stock down 39 percent. Focus Media has said
the allegation was without merits.  “People are happy about the filing of the 20-F,” Lee
said. “There was some concern they wouldn’t be able to file”
before the deadline on April 30, he said.  Chalco Advances  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , China’s biggest producer of
the lightweight metal, gained 3.9 percent to $12.64 in the U.S.
on April 27 for a weekly advance of 1.5 percent. The ADRs traded
at a 4.1 percent  premium  over the equivalent shares in Hong
Kong, the most since Dec. 20.  Plans by Xiong Weiping, chief executive officer of the
company known as Chalco, to diversify into rare earths, coal and
iron ore overshadowed the company’s 1.09 billion-yuan loss ($173
million) in the first quarter, compared with a profit of 331.2
million yuan a year earlier.  Chalco has been the most acquisitive of any aluminum
company in the past year with four deals worth $1.26 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , a telecommunications software
developer, rose 2.2 percent to $11.89 on April 27 in New York,
trimming its weekly drop to 0.7 percent.  The company reported adjusted earnings of 27 cents per
share after U.S. markets closed on April 26, compared with an
estimate of 26 cents by analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. AsiaInfo
was raised to buy from neutral by Kun Tao, an analyst at  Roth
Capital Partners .  The Shanghai Composite is closed April 30 and May 1 for
holidays and the Hong Kong exchange shuts May 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  