-- Serbia Needs to Cut Budget Gap to Bolster Dinar, Markovic Says
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-27T15:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/serbia-needs-to-cut-budget-gap-to-bolster-dinar-markovic-says.html
Serbia’s central bank urged the
government to lower the  budget deficit  and limit public debt to
avoid further weakening of the dinar.  Fiscal consolidation would give the Belgrade-based Narodna
Banka Srbije room to reduce  interest rates  and spur post-crisis
economic recovery in a year when growth is expected at 0.5
percent at best, central bank Vice Governor Bojan Markovic said
in an article  posted  today.  “Relying on a fiscal expansion at this stage of the crisis
is risky,” Markovic said in the article published a week before
the nation casts ballot to elect new president, parliament and
local governments. The central bank has spent 678.5 million
euros ($899 million) to prop up the dinar since February. The
dinar, the world’s second worst-performing currency in the last
12 months, traded at 111.9107 to the euro at 3:39 p.m. in
Belgrade, or 10 percent weaker than a year ago.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s cabinet, seeking re-
election, reported a budget gap of 41.3 billion dinar after the
first two months of the year. The National Bank of  Serbia  left
its benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third month in April
as the dinar slumped, triggered by a freeze in a $1.3 billion
precautionary loan deal with the  International Monetary Fund  in
February and followed by capital outflows.  Boosting Growth  The new government emerging from May 6 elections will need
to raise the value added tax to curb consumption, cut personal
taxes and boost investments in export-oriented manufacturing
industries to bolster economic growth over the medium term,
Markovic said.  “In the short run, fiscal consolidation can cause a
decline in demand, but its benefits on economic activity and
growth over the medium term are numerous,” he said.  “The more those mechanisms are efficient and used, the
smaller the need to adjust through the dinar’s depreciation,”
he said.  Serbia needs to reduce the 2012 fiscal gap to below 4.5
percent of economic output and keep a lid on public debt of 45
percent of GDP, in line with its own fiscal rules. Such measures
leave no room for fiscal incentives, which Serbia used in its
early response to the crisis triggered by the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  