-- Super-PACs Work to Defeat One Candidate at a Time
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-04-27T17:57:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/single-minded-super-pacs-oppose-one-candidate-at-a-time.html
Almost 30 years after he was an
aide to Senator  Richard Lugar  of Indiana, venture capitalist
Andrew Klingenstein received an appeal from the lawmaker’s
former chief of staff: Let’s start a super-PAC.  Klingenstein agreed, and in January formed the Indiana
Values super-PAC with one goal -- to help the six-term
Republican combat attack ads by such organizations as the small-
government Club for Growth. Unlike Lugar’s re-election campaign,
the independent super-PAC can accept unlimited donations. It has
spent $387,000 against Lugar’s opponent in the May 8 primary,
Indiana Treasurer Richard Mourdock.  This political action committee and others are helping
individual Senate candidates two years after the U.S. Supreme
Court’s 2010 Citizens United ruling removed limits on corporate
and union independent election spending. The groups, formed to
influence races in Virginia,  North Dakota , Texas and other
states, are arms-length partners that can air the toughest
attack ads, said Bill Allison, editorial director of the
Sunlight Foundation.  “We’re going to see this in a lot of the Senate races,
where they take on a lot of the burden of negative
advertising,” said Allison, whose group tracks campaign giving.
“It’s a way for them to outsource the dirty work of a
campaign.”  Presidential Race  Independent super-PAC spending began late in the 2010
campaign. Candidate-specific groups emerged this year in the
presidential race when supporters of President Barack Obama and
Republican front-runner Mitt Romney created super-PACs. Senate
races weren’t far behind, with Republicans trying to overturn
the Democrats’ 53-47 control of the chamber.  “That it’s happened next in Senate races is not
particularly surprising, because they’re pretty high-profile and
there’s a tenuous hold on the chamber,” said Bob Biersack, a
senior fellow at the Washington-based Center for Responsive
Politics, which tracks campaign giving. “Every one of these
races is going to be critical for who controls the Senate next
year.”  In  Texas , two super-PACs are supporting Lieutenant Governor
David Dewhurst in a May 29 Republican primary in a field that
includes former state Solicitor General Ted Cruz. They are
seeking to replace retiring Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. Cruz
is the favorite of FreedomWorks, which backs the Tea Party
movement and has spent about $110,000 from its super-PAC to help
him.  The Club for Growth’s super-PAC also favors Cruz and has
spent almost $469,000 to defeat Dewhurst.  Doubling Down  “The super-PACs are really a way to double down on the
Dewhurst effort,” said  Bill Miller , a Republican political
consultant in Austin who has observed the pro-Dewhurst efforts.
“He’s the favorite right now, but he does not want a run-off in
late July with a conservative opponent.”  The super-PACs supporting Dewhurst are raking in funds from
longtime Republican donors. The Texas Conservatives Fund raised
$490,100 by the end of March, including $100,000 from Bob Perry,
a Houston donor who helped fund the Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth ads that attacked Democratic presidential nominee  John Kerry ’s Vietnam War service in 2004.  James Pitcock Jr., top executive at a Texas highway
construction company and a donor to a super-PAC that supported
Texas Governor  Rick Perry ’s Republican presidential bid, also
gave $100,000.  The Conservative Renewal super-PAC, founded in January to
aid Dewhurst’s Senate race, has raised $600,000 -- $100,000 from
Pitcock and $500,000 from Texas billionaire Harold Simmons,
another Perry supporter.  Freedom Pioneers  In North Dakota, a political consultant with ties to Senate
Republican leaders established the Freedom Pioneers Action
Network on March 30. Its goal is to boost the candidacy of
Republican Representative Rick Berg, who is expected to face
former North Dakota Attorney General Heidi Heitkamp, a Democrat,
in a contest to succeed retiring Senator Kent Conrad.  “We’re in the process of getting it organized,” said
Justin Brasell, the group’s treasurer. He also ran Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell ’s 2008 re-election bid in
 Kentucky  and the 2010 campaign of Senator John Thune of  South
Dakota , the third-ranking Republican in the chamber.  Virginia Super-PACs  In  Virginia , supporters of the two main candidates for the
state’s Senate seat set up super-PACs within four days of each
other. The Independence Virginia super-PAC, which supports
Republican George Allen, a former senator and governor, was
created March 9 and plans to raise as much as $3 million, said
Paul Bennecke, director and treasurer of the group.  “We have one mission, and that is to make sure George
Allen wins,” said Bennecke, who handled independent spending
for the Republican Governors Association and worked on Virginia
Republican Robert McDonnell’s campaign for governor in 2009.  The New Virginia PAC was formed March 13 to help former
Governor Tim Kaine, a Democrat. Judith Zamore, a Washington-
based campaign consultant who is the group’s treasurer, declined
to comment on its goals.  At least one super-PAC is aimed at trying to unseat a
candidate, rather than to help one get elected.  Two labor unions in  Boston  -- the Massachusetts Teachers
Association and the  Service Employees International Union  -- are
financing Rethink Brown, a super-PAC aimed at defeating freshman
Massachusetts Senator  Scott Brown , a Republican. Their Rethink
PAC is run by Elizabeth Morningstar, a former top aide to
Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick, a Democrat.  It has raised $695,000 to aid the likely Democratic Senate
candidate,  Elizabeth Warren , in her race against Brown.  No TV Ads  Rethink super-PAC spokesman Stephen Crawford said it isn’t
buying TV ads for now. Brown and Warren agreed that if any
super-PAC buys TV ads, the candidate benefiting must donate half
the value of the ads to a charity of the other’s choosing.
Crawford said his group is considering get-out-the-vote and
other ways to influence the race.  In  Indiana , the pro-Lugar super-PACs are behind some of the
sharpest attacks. Hoosiers for Economic Growth and Jobs aired an
ad March 30 in Indianapolis tying Mourdock to the voting record
of former U.S. Representative  Chris Chocola . He is now president
of the Club for Growth, which is spending funds to help
Mourdock.  The pro-Lugar ad called Mourdock and Chocola ‘hypocrites’’
for suggesting that Lugar isn’t conservative enough because
Chocola once favored an expansion of Medicare, a minimum wage
increase and “dozens” of appropriations earmarks.  “Reject the Richard Mourdock-Club for Growth hypocrisy,”
the ad said.  ‘Do Your Job’  An April 12 ad financed by the Indiana Values super-PAC
said Mourdock skips most of the meetings of state boards he
serves on. It said voters should “tell Richard Mourdock to stop
running and do your job.” The super-PAC has raised almost
$165,000, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  While the groups don’t coordinate with Lugar’s re-election
committee, he is among friends.  Hoosiers for Economic Growth and Jobs was founded by two
political consultants for Meridian Pacific Inc., a Sacramento,
California-based firm. Robert Vane, a spokesman for the group,
said one of the consultants, John Peschong, knew Lugar when
Peschong worked for President  Ronald Reagan .  Top donors include Sam Fox, a former U.S. ambassador to
 Belgium  and now chairman of St. Louis-based Harbour Group. He
gave $25,000 to a group that has spent about $215,000 in the
race, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Denison Connection  The Indiana Values super-PAC is led by former Lugar chief
of staff Chip Andreae. Klingenstein and his father,
philanthropist John Klingenstein, each gave $25,000. Mark Dalton, president and chief executive of Tudor Investment Corp.
in Greenwich,  Connecticut , gave $50,000. Dalton and Lugar both
serve on the board of trustees of Lugar’s alma mater, Denison
University in Granville,  Ohio .  Klingenstein said both super-PACs, which are loosely
coordinating, plan a final burst of ads in the next few weeks.  “It’s going to be an absolute sprint to the finish,” said
Klingenstein, the group’s treasurer. “We’re going to be on the
air as much as we can.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  