-- Singapore Sells Record Shoebox Apartments in First Quarter
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-04-27T03:15:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/singapore-sells-record-shoebox-apartments-in-first-quarter.html
Developers in  Singapore  sold a
record number of so-called shoebox apartments in the first
quarter, raising the prospect of additional government-led
measures to cool the island-state’s housing market.  Developers sold 1,764 apartments that were less than 50
square meters (538 square feet) in the three months ended March
31, the most since the  Urban Redevelopment Authority  began
collating the data in 2007. The smaller condos accounted for 27
percent of new sales in the first quarter, the data released
today showed.  Singapore has been attempting to rein in prices since 2009,
when it barred interest-only loans for some housing projects and
stopped allowing developers to absorb interest payments for
apartments still being built. Analysts at Jones Lang LaSalle
Inc., CLSA Asia Pacific Markets, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Bank
of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit all forecast earlier this
month that the government will introduce further measures to
curb price increases.  “The government could take some measures to curb this
investment-led demand,” said Nicholas Mak, an  executive
director  at SLP International Property Consultants in Singapore.
“One way could be to stipulate that developers cannot build
more than a certain percentage of shoebox units in a project.”  Prices Fall  Singapore’s private residential property price index
declined 0.1 percent to 206 points in the three months ended
March 31 from the previous quarter, according to final data
released by the authority. Houses priced below S$750,000
($603,621) contributed to 42 percent of new sales last quarter,
today’s data showed. In the previous quarter, those houses
accounted for 25 percent.  Home sales climbed to 6,458 units in the quarter, according
to the data. Prices rose 1.1 percent for the mass market in the
same period, the authority said.  Developers are increasing sales by offering smaller units,
according to CBRE Group Inc., the Los Angeles-based property
broker. The median size of units declined 24 percent to 667
square feet in the quarter ended March from the previous three
months, while the median price slid 18 percent to S$786,340,
according to CBRE.  Foreigners and corporate entities have to pay an additional
10 percent stamp duty following measures introduced in December.
The extra levy is 3 percent for permanent residents purchasing a
second home and for citizens buying their third residential
property.  The next round of cooling measures will be targeted at
curbing investment demand from Singaporeans, CLSA, a unit of
Credit Agricole SA, said in a report dated April 17.  The evidence of strong investor demand can be seen in the
overwhelming response to “shoebox developments,” according to
the CLSA report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  