-- Jordan Says SNB Is Ready to Act as Franc Poses Risks
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-27T11:07:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/snb-is-ready-to-act-as-franc-poses-major-challenges-jordan-says.html
Swiss central bank President Thomas Jordan said policy makers are ready to take further measures if
needed to weaken the franc as its strength poses “major
challenges” to the economy.  “We are acutely aware that considerable challenges still
remain for the Swiss economy, despite the minimum exchange
rate,” Jordan, who was appointed president on April 18, told
the  Swiss National Bank ’s shareholders in Bern today. Speaking
after the KOF Swiss Economic Institute reported a third straight
gain in its  leading indicator  in April, he also said that there
are “growing signs” the situation has stabilized.  The SNB has said that it’s ready to defend the currency
ceiling of 1.20 per euro as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis clouds the
region’s growth prospects, making Switzerland’s strengthening
economy more attractive for investors. Jordan, 49, said while
the cap has helped reduce the “very substantial
overvaluation,” the currency remains overvalued.  The franc, which is considered a haven in times of global
turmoil, was little changed against the euro after Jordan’s
comments, trading at 1.2015 at 11:37 a.m. in Zurich.  Jordan said the debt turmoil in the euro area “still
presents the biggest risk,” with the “potential to seriously
affect the international financial system as well as
international economic development.”  Spain Rating Cut  Spanish bond yields rose above 6 percent this month for the
first time since early December, reflecting investors’ concerns
that the country may need external aid. Standard & Poor’s
yesterday cut its rating of  Spain  to BBB+ from A, and
unemployment, already the highest in the European Union, rose to
24.4 percent in the first quarter, a report showed today.  With governments from  Portugal  to  Italy  cutting spending to
plug their budget gaps and restore investor confidence, the
region’s slump shows signs of deepening. In  Germany , Europe’s
largest economy,  consumer confidence  will decline for a second
month in May, a  GfK SE (GFK)  report showed today. French  consumer
spending  dropped more than economists forecast in March, Paris-
based national statistics office Insee said.  In the U.K.,  consumer confidence  was unchanged this month
and is unlikely to improve after data this week showed the
economy slid into its first double-dip recession since 1975, GfK
NOP Ltd. said today.  SNB Defense  By contrast, Switzerland’s economy is regaining some
strength. Swiss  manufacturing output  expanded in March for the
first time in seven months and the unadjusted jobless rate
declined to the lowest since November. The KOF leading
indicator, which helps predict economic developments in about
six months, rose to the highest since October.  “Financial markets are constantly changing their
assessment of risks,” Jordan said. “A situation may also occur
in which the market decides to test the defense of the minimum
 exchange rate . Consequently, the SNB is present in the foreign
exchange market at all times.”  Referring to the franc briefly breaching the currency
ceiling on April 5 for the first time since the measure was
introduced in September, Jordan said it was “only for a few
seconds and resulted from market idiosyncrasies.”  In  Japan , the exchange rate is also threatening the
economy. Industrial production rose less than forecast in March,
a government report showed today, and the  Bank of Japan  expanded
its plan for government-bond purchases.  ‘Limiting the Damage’  In the U.S., the biggest increase in consumer spending in a
year probably helped extend the country’s economic expansion
into the first quarter, economists said before a report today.  While the Swiss currency surged as much as 37 percent
against the euro in the 12 months before the ceiling was
introduced on Sept. 6, it has since averaged 1.2161, helping
bolster exports and revive economic growth.  The franc ceiling “proved to be effective,” Jordan said.
It “has given business leaders a better basis for planning,
thereby clearly limiting the damage inflicted by the
appreciation of the franc on the real economy.”  The SNB said at its quarterly assessment last month that it
expects the economy to expand about 1 percent this year.
 Consumer prices  may decline 0.6 percent before inflation returns
in 2013 with a rate of 0.3 percent, accelerating to 0.6 percent
in 2014, it estimated.  Jordan said that there’s no inflation risk “in the
foreseeable future” and the “threat of a deflationary trend
has been kept in check.”  Interest rates  in  Switzerland  “are
likely to remain low for a while,” he said.  “This modest economic momentum is likely to be reflected
in a moderate increase in unemployment over the course of the
next few quarters,” he said. “The expected economic activity
is lower than would be the case for normal capacity utilization.
This means there will be no inflationary pressure from this
source.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  