-- South Carolina Gets Three Years of Probation for NCAA Violations
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-04-28T04:01:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/south-carolina-gets-three-years-of-probation-for-ncaa-violations.html
The  University of South Carolina 
was stripped of six football scholarships over three years by
the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  and was put on
three years probation after athletes got rooms in an off-campus
hotel for less than $15 a day.  The school failed to monitor $59,000 of impermissible
benefits given to current and prospective student-athletes, the
NCAA announced yesterday.  A dozen South Carolina student-athletes received
preferential housing prices, and a pair of university boosters
provided illegal benefits to recruits from 2009 to 2011, the
NCAA’s Division I Committee on Infractions said in an e-mailed
statement. During the three-year probationary period, in which
the Gamecocks can participate in all championship events, South
Carolina must report to the NCAA annually about its compliance
and educational efforts.  Other penalties include an $18,500 fine and a reduction of
official visits for football recruits.  “It is important to note that the university agreed with
nearly all of the allegations in this case,” Britton Banowsky,
the chairman of the Committee on Infractions, said in a
conference call with reporters. “It was obvious to the
committee and to the staff that the university wanted to get to
the truth. They wanted to ask all the hard questions of all the
right people.”  From May 2009 to October 2010, a dozen Gamecocks lived in a
local hotel for “considerably less” than prices available to
the general student population, and nine of the student-athletes
received special loan arrangements following deferred payments,
according to the NCAA’s statement. In total, players were given
approximately $51,000 in impermissible extra benefits from the
living arrangements.  Boosters Provided Benefits  In addition, two boosters provided more than $8,000 for
recruiting inducements and extra benefits, including cash, gift
cards and funding of unofficial visits, the NCAA said.  South Carolina  announced in December that it had responded
to the NCAA’s notice of allegations regarding the impermissible
benefits and recruiting. The school acknowledged violations had
occurred in its football team in 2009 and 2010, and presented a
number of self-imposed penalties endorsed by the NCAA’s
infractions committee.  “The university regrets the past actions and decisions by
individuals that resulted in violations of NCAA legislation,”
Athletic Director Eric Hyman said in a statement on the school’s
website. “We are pleased, however, that the Committee on
Infractions found the corrective actions we have taken and the
penalties we have self-imposed reflect the university’s
commitment to full compliance with NCAA rules.”  Other penalties imposed by the Committee on Infractions
include the indefinite disassociation of both the involved
boosters and the local hotel, and a limit on official visits for
men’s and women’s track and field recruits, according to the
statement.  -- Editors: Rob Gloster, Michael Sillup  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  