-- Spain Rules Out Bailout as De Guindos Says Banks Funded
-- B y   J o h n   F r a h e r   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-27T14:44:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/spain-not-under-pressure-to-seek-bank-bailout-de-guindos-says.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos ruled out seeking a bailout hours before  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the country’s credit rating to three levels above
junk and a report showed unemployment jumped close to a record.  “Nobody has asked Spain, either officially or
unofficially” to turn to  Europe ’s bailout mechanisms, he said
in an interview in Madrid late yesterday. “We don’t need it.”  Spanish  unemployment , already the highest in the European
Union, rose to 24.4 percent in the first quarter, just below the
24.55 percent record of March 1994, the National Statistics
Institute said today. The increase in first quarter joblessness
will mean 953 million euros ($1.3 billion) of lost revenue for
the government, the tax inspectors association said today.  De Guindos spoke at the end of a month that has seen
Spanish bond  yields  rise above 6 percent for the first time
since early December on concern that banking losses will swamp
the government. That sparked speculation that  Spain  will need to
seek an international rescue for its lenders and prompted one
minister to call on the ECB to buy the country’s bonds.  “This is not the real cure for the problems and the
volatility of the market,” de Guindos said. “I don’t think
that we need any further liquidity injections after the two
LTROs that the ECB has implemented over the last three or four
months.”  Rating Cut  Just hours after de Guindos spoke, Standard & Poor’s cut
its rating on Spain by two levels to BBB+, citing concern that
the country will need to pour more money into its lenders. The
downgrade was the second this year by S&P and puts Spain at the
same level as  Italy .  S&P’s decision did not mean that the rating company
expected Spain to need a bailout, Marko Mrsnik, director for
sovereign ratings for Europe, said today in a conference call.
Still, EU aid to Spanish banks would “ease pressure” on the
sovereign rating, he said.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bonds rose 6 basis
points to 5.89 percent at 3:30 p.m. in  London , pushing the
spread with similar German maturities to 421 basis points from
415 basis points yesterday. The country’s benchmark IBEX 35
 stock index  erased early declines and advanced 1.1 percent to
7100.3.  The downgrade “raises the chance of Spain accessing
external official funding for its banks alongside a robust
external audit,” London-based Barclays Capital analysts Marcus Widen and  Laurent Fransolet  wrote in a note today.  No Bailout  Spain is sticking to its line that austerity should be the
main driver of policy as it tries to quash concerns that it will
be pushed to follow Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece  into a bailout.
As French presidential frontrunner Francois Hollande presses to
renegotiate a euro-wide fiscal treaty backed by German
Chancellor Angela Merkel, de Guindos said that Europe can’t
afford to twin such a pact with stimulus measures.  “A growth pact has to be focused on structural reforms,”
de Guindos said. “I do not see that the growth pact should
involve any sort of fiscal boost or stimulus.”  De Guindos announced today that Spain will shift the burden
of taxes onto consumption and reduce levies on employing
workers. The government will raise indirect taxes such as those
on sales, cigarettes and alcohol from next year under the plan
that aims to eliminate the  budget deficit  by 2016. The shortfall
reached 8.5 percent of GDP last year.  Fixing Economies  “We have to put on the table a much more comprehensive
growth program that has to be much more focused on performance
on the structural side,” De Guindos said in the interview.  ECB bond purchases wouldn’t help to calm European markets
either as governments instead need to show how they can fix
their economies, de Guindos said.  The  International Monetary Fund  said on April 17 that
budget deficits will persist till at least 2017 in Spain, where
the economic recession will be deeper than in other euro-region
countries. The IMF forecasts a 1.8 percent contraction this year
and growth of 0.1 percent next year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Fraher in  Madrid  at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net 
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in Madrid at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  