-- Spain to Shift Tax to Consumption to Help Exports Drive GDP
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-04-27T16:07:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/spain-to-shift-tax-to-consumption-to-help-exports-drive-gdp-1-.html
Spain  will shift the burden of
taxes onto consumption and reduce levies on employing workers in
a plan to restart its economy by spurring exports, Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said.  The government will raise indirect taxes such as those on
sales, cigarettes and alcohol from next year as part of efforts
to eliminate Spain’s  budget  deficit by 2016, de Guindos said at
a press conference in Madrid today. The plan will boost revenue
by 8 billion euros ($10.6 billion) next year, he said.  The program comes at the end of a month that has seen
Spanish bond yields rise above 6 percent for the first time
since early December on concern that banking losses will swamp
the public finances. Spanish unemployment, the highest in the
European Union, rose to an 18-year high of 24.4 percent in the
first quarter, data showed today. Standard & Poor’s yesterday
cut the nation’s credit rating to three steps away from junk.  “We are living through perhaps one of the hardest moments
for the Spanish economy,” Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said after the weekly Cabinet meeting. “The program
contains the necessary measures to achieve the deficit goal this
country has set itself.”  Campaign Pledge  The ruling  People’s Party , in power since December, had
pledged during the election campaign not to raise  sales tax . The
U-turn follows measures announced on Dec. 30 to increase
personal income-tax rates, when the government also created a
new threshold for high earners.  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
on April 17 that additional permanent tax measures may have to
be taken for Spain to meet its deficit targets, citing indirect
taxation as the tool that would least distort growth. French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  has also increased value-added tax and
cut social-security charges to bolster exports.  Shifting the tax burden towards consumption and away from
labor costs may help Spain recover the competitiveness it lost
since during the euro. The economy, which had a 10 percent
current-account deficit at the peak of its debt-fueled property
boom, will show a surplus from next year, de Guindos said.  Benefits Fraud  The Cabinet also approved a plan to crack down on benefits
fraud. The government will step up inspections to avoid people
claiming jobless benefits while working in the informal economy
and toughen penalties for fraudsters.  The PP government, which controls 11 of the 17 regions and
secured the biggest parliamentary majority any Spanish party has
won since 1982, also plans to merge some of the country’s 8,000
municipalities to save costs. It will present a plan to sell
state-owned assets and take measures to boost  growth  such as
extending shop-opening hours.  Spain forecast a primary surplus, with revenue exceeding
all costs except interest payments, in 2013 and targeted an
overall budget balance in 2016, compared with a deficit target
of 5.3 percent this year. Government debt as a proportion of
gross domestic product will peak next year at 82.3 percent and
fall to 80.8 percent in 2015.  Economic expansion will accelerate from 0.2 percent next
year to 1.4 percent in 2014 and 1.8 percent in 2015, the
government said. Export growth will reach 8 percent in 2015 from
3.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  