-- Spain to Seek Foreign Investors to Offload Bank Property
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-27T07:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/spain-to-seek-foreign-investors-to-offload-property-from-banks.html
Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos expects foreign investors and real-estate funds to help
offload property assets from banks’ balance sheets and ruled out
using public funds to shore up the industry.  “A third-party partner is going to enter into this  asset
management company  if the valuation is the correct one,” said
Guindos, 52, in an interview in Madrid late yesterday. The
government “will set the general rules to do that but without
any kind of subsidy. We are not going to put in any money.”  Less than three months after tightening rules to force
lenders to recognize deeper real-estate losses, Spain is seeking
new ways to convince the  bond market  that bank losses won’t
overburden  public  finances. De Guindos was speaking just hours
before  Standard & Poor’s  cut Spain’s credit rating to within
three steps of junk and data showed the nation’s unemployment
rate surged to 24.4 percent, the highest in 18 years.  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield rose to 5.987 percent at 9:05
a.m. in Madrid, pushing the gap over equivalent German
securities to 433 basis points.  Transparent Valuation  De Guindos said that any third-party investors in the new
pooled property entities won’t need the reassurance of public
money because the assets they will contain are becoming more
realistically priced.  “The key element is going to be transparency and
valuation,” said the minister, who used to run the Iberian unit
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. When asked whether the plan
would create additional losses for banks, he said assets are
already priced at market value.  Spain will draft rules in the coming months to allow banks
to move real-estate holdings into asset-management companies run
with third-party investors, de Guindos said. The mechanism,
which will be voluntary, affects assets for which provisions
have already been made.  Spain is in the midst of the third effort to clean up its
banking industry since the bubble burst in 2008. In February,
the government increased the ratio of provisions to be set aside
for land to 80 percent, while raising the ratio on unfinished
developments to 65 percent and to 35 percent for other troubled
assets including finished houses. The new provisioning rules
cover about 170 billion euros ($224 billion) of assets.  Conflict of Interest  “We think these valuations are much closer to the
valuations of the market place,” de Guindos said. He declined
to specify who will value the assets, indicating he wouldn’t
copy Ireland’s decision to use  BlackRock (BLK)  Inc., the world’s
biggest asset manager, to price assets.  “In the case of Ireland it was BlackRock, don’t you think
BlackRock wants to buy assets in Spain?” he said. “If you are
going to be the referee and at the same time you want to buy
assets there’s a very clear conflict of interests.”  Spanish 10-year  bond yields  rose above 6 percent this week
amid concern that lenders’ bad loans risk swamping  national 
finances just as the government tries to rein in the euro
region’s third-largest budget deficit. Highlighting Spain’s
challenges, Standard & Poor’s late yesterday cut its rating on
the country by two levels to BBB+, citing concern that it will
need to pour more money into its banks.  Spanish Recovery  Spain’s deficit-cutting efforts may be undermined by the
economy’s relapse into its second recession since 2009, which
has now pushed the  unemployment rate  to more than 24 percent,
with more than half of young people out of work.  At the same time, de Guindos said he expects the economy to
return to growth in 2013 and stressed that Spain is starting to
recover some of the competitiveness lost over the first decade
of euro membership.  Giving his first forecasts for 2013, de Guindos said that
the economy will show “small but positive growth,” after
contracting 1.7 percent this year. The  International Monetary
Fund  expects an expansion of 0.1 percent next year, an estimate
Guindos said is “reasonable.”  The jobless rate will peak at between 24 percent and 25
percent and stabilize next year, he said.  As exports grow, the nation will next year post its first
current-account surplus since 1986, eliminating a gap that
amounted to about 10 percent of gross domestic product during
the debt-fueled boom.  Spanish Surplus  “Next year we will be in surplus, that is the adjustment
of the Spanish economy,” de Guindos said. “There’s a very
clear improvement in the competitiveness of the Spanish
economy.”  De Guindos joined Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government
in December after the pro-business People’s Party won the
biggest majority any Spanish party has secured since 1982. He is
set to propose a new head of the Bank of Spain as Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, appointed by the former
Socialist government, comes to the end of his six-year term.  “It’s going to have a very technical profile: it’s going
to be a professional, a person with a reputation in the
international and domestic arena,” he said, declining to give
names and saying it wouldn’t be a banker. “I have someone in
mind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net 
Angeline Benoit in  Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher in Madrid at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net  