-- Stanford Investors Seek Liquidators’ Pact on Claims Process
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-04-27T01:04:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/stanford-investors-seek-liquidators-pact-on-claims-process-1-.html
A group of Stanford International
Bank Ltd. depositors asked a U.S. judge to order the receiver he
appointed and rival bank liquidators selected by a Caribbean
court to collaborate on a process to pay victims of R. Allen Stanford’s $7 billion fraud scheme.  The depositors and other creditors of the Houston-based
Stanford Group Co. securities firm filed their request today
with U.S. District Judge David Godbey.  The judge yesterday described as “mind boggling” the
continuing dispute between  Dallas  lawyer Ralph Janvey, whom
Godbey appointed in February 2009 to collect and liquidate
Stanford assets to pay off creditors, and the two Grant Thornton
accountants asked to do comparable work by the Eastern Caribbean
Supreme Court for  Antigua and Barbuda .  “Something is terribly wrong here,” the Stanford
depositors and creditors told Godbey in today’s filing. “This
simply should not have been that hard.”  A federal jury in Houston in March convicted Stanford, 62,
of leading a international banking fraud scheme centered on the
sale of certificates of deposit by his Antigua-based bank. He is
scheduled to be sentenced on June 14.  Janvey’s Request  Godbey yesterday declined to immediately grant Janvey’s
request that he set a deadline for the filing of claims by
Stanford’s fraud victims. The receiver was appointed after the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission filed suit against
Stanford and his bank.  “I’m not saying that I want it to be a fixed price
contract,” the judge said, adding that he sought assurance “we
are not going to spend another $50 million.”  Janvey’s outside counsel, Kevin Sadler of Houston-based
Baker Botts LLP, told the court he would file a cost estimate
within two days.  The Janvey and Grant Thornton receivers have spent about
$150 million in their global efforts to recover Stanford assets,
according to the creditors’ filing today. They haven’t agreed on
a unified plan for processing victim claims and payments.  ‘Round and Round’  “We’ve gone round and round and have not come up with
anything that’s acceptable,” Joseph Wielebinski, a lawyer for
the Antiguan liquidators, said in court yesterday, relaying his
clients’ objections to the setting of a claims bar date.  “Nobody is more sensitive to that issue than the
receiver,” Sadler told Godbey. “We are very anxious to start
the process.”  “Unfortunately,” the Stanford creditors said in their
filing, “it appears that it will take firm and unambiguous
action by the court to right this ship.”  The creditors said they seek a court-ordered day-long
session involving representatives of the Janvey receivership,
the Antiguan liquidators and victims’ advocates.  “In the event an agreement is not reached, movants
respectfully move the court to fashion a single claims
process,” they said.  Miami attorney Edward H. Davis, who represents the Grant
Thornton liquidators, didn’t reply to an e-mailed request for
comment.  ‘Very Unfortunate’  Sadler, in a telephone interview, called the filing by
creditors’ lawyer Stephen Malouf “very unfortunate and very
ill-timed.”  “He just doesn’t know how much time the receiver, the SEC,
the creditors committee and the examiner have spent negotiating
with the Antiguans,” Sadler said. The parties have had
“innumerable meetings,” in the past year, making what he
described as a “considerable effort to reach some kind of an
agreement.”  Sadler said the Antiguans maintain they are the only
legally authorized liquidators of the Stanford bank and as such,
“they want to be in control of everything.” It has been
impossible to dislodge them from that position, he said.  Almost $3.5 billion in claims have already been submitted
to the Janvey receivership without a formal claims process in
place, Sadler said.  “You have to have a claims process in place before you can
distribute one dime,” he said.  The SEC case is  Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  