-- Stevens Leaves Lockheed He Transformed From Brylcreem Era
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/stevens-leaves-lockheed-he-transformed-from-brylcreem-era.html
Robert Stevens turned out to be one
of the biggest trophies in the acquisition binge that made
 Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  the world’s biggest defense contractor.  Stevens, a former U.S. Marine who came to Lockheed when it
bought his employer Loral Corp. in 1996, rose to chairman and
chief executive officer of a company that completed more than 20
acquisitions in the 1990s, including the $10 billion merger of
Lockheed Corp. and  Martin Marietta  Corp. in 1995.  “He took two mediocre entities that came together,
Lockheed and Martin Marietta, and had the energy, courage and
intestinal fortitude” to force change, Heidi Wood, managing
director at Morgan Stanley in  New York , said in an interview.
Stevens reshaped a company where executives clung to Cold War-
era ideas and still “wore horn-rimmed glasses and Brylcreem”
in their hair, she said.  Lockheed Martin announced yesterday that Stevens, 60, will
relinquish his CEO’s job in January. Chris Kubasik, 51, the
president and chief operating officer will succeed Stevens, who
intends to keep his chairman’s title through January 2014.  Stevens is turning over a company whose  shares gained  71
percent since he was named CEO in 2004, compared with a 25
percent increase in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 22
percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Aerospace & Defense
Index. He is also leaving his successor a project as big as any
he tackled: managing a defense giant when the U.S. is preparing
to cut defense spending by as much as $1 trillion over 10 years.  Kubasik’s Challenge  “Chris Kubasik’s challenge is to maintain operational
focus, and that is his forte,” Wood said. Kubasik, an
accountant by training, joined Lockheed in November 1999 after
more than a decade at the accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP.  Among his priorities are seeking international customers
for Lockheed’s F-35 jet, continuing work on the Littoral Combat
Ship that has been plagued with flaws such as cracks, and
winning the U.S.  Air Force ’s planned contest for a new long-
range bomber, Kubasik said in an interview yesterday.  “Everything related to the F-35 is a growth area,”
Kubasik said.  Under Stevens, Lockheed beat rival  Boeing Co. (BA)  to win the
Pentagon’s F-35 Joint Strike Fighter competition in October
2001. Although the win gave Lockheed an advantage, the stealthy
jet’s development and production have been marked by delays and
cost overruns that threaten to curtail U.S. purchases.  The plane is Lockheed’s single largest program and the
Pentagon’s most expensive, at an estimated cost of $382 billion.  Lockheed of Bethesda,  Maryland , is offering the plane in a
jet fighter contest in  South Korea . The company also is
developing new uses for older weapons because of “fewer and
fewer major new starts” in the U.S., Kubasik said, citing the
adaptation of helicopter-borne missiles for fixed-wing aircraft.  Paid $25.4 Million  When Stevens became the chief financial officer at Lockheed
in 1999, it had $11.9 billion in debt and $455 million in cash.
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. had lowered the company’s credit
rating. Stevens helped reduce the debt by almost half to $6.5
billion at the end of 2011, and cash on the balance sheet rose
sevenfold to $3.6 billion, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I’d say that from the day Stevens emerged from relative
obscurity to become the CFO, this organization has been run by
him,” Wood said.  He has been rewarded for his efforts. His compensation last
year was $25.4 million, including a salary of $1.8 million, a
bonus of $4.73 million and awards and stock options with an
estimated value of $18.8 million, according to the company’s
U.S. regulatory filing.  Expansive Era  Stevens also oversaw Lockheed’s entry into shipbuilding,
when it won a contract to build a variant of the U.S. Navy’s
Littoral Combat Ship. A team led by  Austal Ltd. (ASB)  and including
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  is building the other version.  Stevens’ tenure as CEO coincided with one of the most
expansive eras for U.S. defense spending, which rose 72 percent,
including war-related costs, from 2000 to 2009.  Now, as he prepares to depart, the U.S. faces a deficit
crisis that led to a decision to cut $490 billion from planned
defense spending over the next 10 years. An additional $500
billion in automatic budget cuts may begin in January if
lawmakers and the president fail to agree on ways to reduce
deficits.  To get the most for its money, the Pentagon is imposing
tougher terms on defense contractors, including fixed-price
contracts and penalizing suppliers for exceeding cost and
schedule estimates.  The tight times for defense contractors will continue for
some years to come, so making a transition now is better for the
company, Stevens said.  “It would be great to go on forever, but I recognize
future challenges will extend beyond” the company’s mandatory
retirement age of 65 for executives, Stevens said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters.  Successor Well-Positioned  Kubasik, who previously served as Lockheed’s CFO before
heading the Electronic Systems unit, is well-positioned to
manage the company, Stevens said.  Kubasik must retain and win a “couple of big market
sector-defining programs” that are critical to Lockheed,  Byron Callan , a defense analyst at Capital Alpha Partners in
Washington, said in an interview.  Lockheed needs to keep its work on the Navy’s Aegis Combat
System radar program, which faces the threat of competition from
Boeing and  Raytheon Co. (RTN) , Callan said. Lockheed has held the
Aegis contract for 40 years.  Winning the Air Force’s planned long-range bomber contract
would provide a “hedge against cuts to the F-35 program,”
Callan said.  Health, Information Technology  Kubasik and Marillyn Hewson, who will take over as
president and chief operating officer, must decide what other
market opportunities to pursue as defense budgets shrink, Callan
said.  Kubasik said Lockheed sees supplying  information-technology 
and systems-integration skills to the health-care and energy
industries as promising businesses for Lockheed to expand. The
company already gets about $1 billion in annual revenue from
each of those businesses, he said.  Not all of Lockheed’s pursuits under Stevens bore fruit. In
2006, he bought Pacific Architects & Engineers to provide
services to U.S. embassies as well as  disaster relief  around the
world.  Lockheed sold the unit in 2011 because it didn’t fit its
long-term strategy. Stevens has said he expected to use the unit
to provide information-technology services to customers. Instead
embassies wanted Lockheed to take on construction, maintenance
and physical security of buildings.  Stevens at least “had the courage to take some
concentrated bets,” Wood of Morgan Stanley said. “Not all of
them panned out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  