-- Stocks Advance on Earnings, Fed as Treasuries Trim Drop
-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-04-27T00:50:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/stocks-advance-on-earnings-fed-as-treasuries-trim-drop.html
The euro weakened for the first
time in four days, U.S. equity futures fell and oil slid after
Standard & Poor’s cut  Spain ’s sovereign credit rating. South
Korean shares rallied as Samsung Electronics Co. posted higher-
than-estimated profit.  The euro lost 0.1 percent to $1.3203 as of 9:27 a.m. in
Tokyo. The dollar strengthened against most of its major
counterparts. S&P 500 Index futures sank 0.4 percent, while
South Korea’s Kospi index rose 0.4 percent. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index was little changed. Oil retreated from near a
four-week high, losing 0.4 percent.  Spain’s sovereign credit rating was cut to BBB+ from A by
S&P on concern the nation will have to provide further fiscal
support to the banking sector as the economy contracts. The Bank
of  Japan  holds a policy meeting today that may result in an
expansion of bond purchases, according to all 14 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. More than 100 companies in the MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index are scheduled to report earnings today, including
Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Honda Motor Co.  “It does look as if the Spanish crisis is set to get worse
before it gets better,” said Mike Jones, a currency strategist
at Bank of  New Zealand  in Wellington. “The knee-jerk reaction
from the euro to the downgrade has been to the downside. It’s
also taken some of the heat out of investors’ risk appetite.”  Spain’s Credit Rating  Spain’s short-term rating was lowered to A-2 from A-1,
while the outlook on the long-term rating is negative, New York-
based S&P said in a statement yesterday. Nobel Prize-winning
economist Joseph Stiglitz said that  Europe  is in a “dire”
situation as a focus on austerity pushes the continent toward
“suicide.”  Samsung, Asia’s largest consumer-electronics maker, gained
1.3 percent. Japan Tobacco Inc. slid 2.1 percent in Tokyo.
Asia’s largest listed cigarette maker by market value forecast
this year’s annual profit will fall 1 percent, missing analysts’
estimates.  PetroChina Co. (857)  shares may be active after the country’s
biggest oil producer reported an unexpected profit increase
after it boosted oil and gas production. Bank of China Ltd.
shares may move. The nation’s third-biggest lender by assets
said profit growth slowed to 10 percent in the first quarter.  Declines in S&P 500 futures suggest the equity index may
snap a three-day streak of gains, the longest in a month. The
 U.S. economy  expanded at a 2.5 percent annual rate in the first
quarter, after a 3 percent advance in the final three months of
2011, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News ahead of a Commerce Department report today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in  Tokyo  at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Dobson at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  