-- Sumitomo, Tokyo Gas Secure U.S. LNG From Dominion for Japan
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r
-- 2012-04-27T04:32:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/sumitomo-tokyo-gas-secure-u-s-lng-from-dominion-s-cove-point.html
Sumitomo Corp. (8053) , Japan’s third-
largest trading house, and  Tokyo Gas Co. (9531)  secured a supply
contract from the U.S., where natural gas trades for a fraction
of the price in Asia.  Sumitomo and Tokyo Gas agreed to buy 2.3 million metric
tons of liquefied natural gas annually for 20 years from
 Dominion Resources Inc. (D) ’s Cove Point project, the trading house
said today in a statement. Dominion, which needs U.S. approval
to sell to Japan, plans to build and start operating the Cove
Point plant in 2017. Dominion, based in Richmond, Virginia, will
liquefy the gas from Sumitomo’s assets in the northeast of the
U.S.  “If the project is finally agreed, Sumitomo will be able
to establish a natural gas and LNG value chain in the U.S.”
stretching from extraction to export, Sumitomo said.  Japanese traders, led by  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) ’s $6 billion
outlay on an  Encana Corp. (ECA)  shale project announced in February,
are stepping up purchases of U.S. and Canadian natural gas
assets as they seek to export the fuel in the form of LNG to
Asia. The 40-year-old oil-linked price mechanism for Asian LNG
means buyers in the region, which accounts for more than 60
percent of global demand, are paying nine times more for gas
than U.S. domestic users.  Nuclear Meltdown  U.S. Henry Hub futures rose 4.8 percent to $2.134 per
million British thermal units as of 12:29 a.m. in  New York .
Japan, which has just one of its 54 nuclear reactors in
operation since a March 2011 meltdown at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, paid about $18.85 per million Btu in the first 11 months
of last year, according to  finance ministry  data.  At current U.S. prices, the Japanese partners will be able
to sell their contracted LNG in the domestic market at less than
$10 per million Btu, Kunio Nohata, senior general manager at
Tokyo Gas, told reporters in Tokyo today.  Sumitomo was among the first Japanese traders to invest in
U.S. shale with the 2009 purchase of a 12.5 percent stake in the
Barnett Shale Gas project in Texas from  Carrizo Oil & Gas Inc. (CRZO) 
Together with its stake in  Rex Energy Corp. (REXX) ’s Marcellus shale
area, the trader has a 140 million cubic feet per day supply of
gas, JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. said in a March 19 report.  “For the trading companies the areas for new acquisitions
are food, base metals like copper, and especially shale gas and
oil,” JPMorgan analyst Akira Kishimoto said yesterday in Tokyo,
before the Sumitomo announcement. LNG exports from  North America 
may become one of the main businesses of Japanese trading
companies in about five years, he said.  Import Terminal  Sumitomo, which also owns U.S. gas trader Pacific Summit
Energy LLC, said the Cove Point LNG will be destined for  Japan .
Cove Point currently acts as an LNG import terminal, operated by
Dominion.  The feed for Dominion’s Cove Point LNG, also in the
northeast of the U.S., will come from the Marcellus shale
project, Sumitomo said. The LNG plant Dominion plans to build
will have an annual 5-million-ton capacity, it said.  Japan’s imports of spot LNG surged 20 percent to a record
in February, with supplies from Nigeria providing more than half
of the total as the country seeks fuels to replace power from
nuclear plants that have been shut, customs data showed. Imports
under immediate and short-term contracts rose to 1.18 million
tons, according to data from the finance ministry.  Japan’s total LNG imports, which include long-term
contracted shipments, rose 22.5 percent in February from a year
earlier to 7.67 million tons, according to the finance ministry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuriy Humber in  Tokyo  at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  