-- Suzlon Plans to Raise as Much as $500 Million, Sell Bonds
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-04-27T10:57:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/suzlon-plans-to-raise-as-much-as-500-million-sell-bonds.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL)  plans to raise
as much as $500 million, including through a bond sale, to meet
debt payments in June, its finance chief said.  India ’s biggest wind turbine maker began talks with
“large, international banks” four weeks ago about selling
high-yield bonds, Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said
today in a phone interview.  “All our overseas subsidiaries are practically
unleveraged,” said Vagadia, who replaced former CFO  Robin
Banerjee  last month. “We want to raise funds against those
international assets.”  Suzlon owns Hamburg-based Repower Systems SE. Re-balancing
debt across the group would help reduce interest payments,
Vagadia said. In June, $358 million in foreign-currency
convertible bonds mature. Suzlon isn’t renegotiating those with
bondholders, he said.  The Pune, India-based company expects to complete the fresh
fund-raising and to sell “non-critical assets” to meet
obligations by June, Vagadia said. It also expects to see strong
cash flows by then as 65 percent of orders tend to come in the
first half of the year, he said.  Vagadia, when asked, said selling Repower or listing a
stake wasn’t an option.  “I’ve said we want to sell non-critical assets,” Vagadia
said. “By definition, Repower is our most critical asset. I
think that answers the question.”  Suzlon shares reversed some of its earlier losses before
closing down 4.3 percent at 21.35 rupees.  Suzlon completed its buyout of Repower in October 2011
after gradually increasing its stake over four years. Re-listing
it makes no sense at this point, Vagadia said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  