-- Swedish Retail Sales Rose for Sixth Month Amid Gains in Jobs
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-04-27T07:59:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/swedish-retail-sales-rose-for-sixth-month-amid-gains-in-jobs-1-.html
Swedish  retail sales  unexpectedly
rose for a sixth month in March as lower interest rates and
falling unemployment fueled  consumer confidence .  Sales rose a monthly 0.2 percent and climbed an annual 4.5
percent, compared with 3.5 percent the previous month,
Stockholm-based  Statistics Sweden  said today. The  median
estimate  in a survey of six economists by Bloomberg was for a
monthly drop of 0.3 percent and an annual gain of 3.4 percent.  “Retail sales in March were yet another recent strong
piece of data for the Swedish economy,” said  Andreas Jonsson ,
an economist at  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) , in a note. “In sum, the most
recent data clearly decreases the likelihood of a rate cut from
the Riksbank in July.”  Swedish  consumer confidence  improved to a nine-month high
in April, the National Institute of Economic Research said
yesterday. Sweden’s non-seasonally adjusted  jobless rate 
unexpectedly fell to 7.7 percent in March after the country’s
central bank cut interest rates twice since December. The bank
this month kept its main rate unchanged at 1.5 percent and
predicted no more cuts as growth improves.  There are a few indication of “cautious optimism” in the
Swedish economy even as uncertainty remains in southern and
central Europe, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt told reporters
yesterday. About half of Swedish output is sold abroad, of which
70 percent is bound for  Europe .  A separate report today showed the country’s trade surplus
narrowed to 4.8 billion kronor in March from 8.1 billion kronor
a year earlier. Exports declined an annual 7 percent, the
statistics agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  