-- Syria Suicide Bomb Kills Nine as Ban Condemns Violence
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-04-27T14:03:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/syria-suicide-bomb-kills-nine-as-ban-condemns-violence.html
A suicide bomb killed at least nine
people today in the Syrian capital, Damascus, state media
reported, as United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called
the continuing violence “totally unacceptable.”  The explosion that rocked the Midan district of Damascus
caused many injuries, the state-run  Syrian-Arab News Agency 
reported. Security forces killed nine people today, Al Arabiya
television reported. Three government soldiers were wounded when
a bomb detonated in the coastal city of Baniyas, the U.K.-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said in a statement.  Ban, speaking today in  New Delhi , said the UN plans to
increase deployment of monitors from the 15 now in Syria.
Yesterday he reiterated his call for an immediate halt to the
violence, focusing on government violations of the terms of a
cease-fire negotiated by his envoy,  Kofi Annan . The Annan plan
appears to be failing, said Dmitri Trenin, director of the
Moscow Carnegie Center.  “There are too few people who put peace at the top of the
agenda,” he said today in an interview. “Damascus would want
to annhilate the opposition and the opposition wants to do to
Assad what the Libyan folks did to” the late Libyan leader
 Muammar Qaddafi .  Two people were injured today in an explosion near the
faculty of agriculture in Damascus, SANA reported.  At least 28 people were killed in  Syria  yesterday, bringing
to 259 the number who have died in the violence since the UN
Security Council agreed on April 21 to deploy as many as 300
unarmed cease-fire observers, according to the website of the
opposition Local Coordination Committees. The group counts 530
people killed since the April 12 announcement of the cease-fire.  Sanctions and Diplomacy  President  Barack Obama ’s administration will continue to
use economic sanctions and diplomacy to pressure the regime of
Bashar al-Assad, Derek Chollet, the president’s nominee to be
assistant secretary of defense for international security
affairs, said yesterday at his confirmation hearing before the
Senate Armed Services Committee.  Annan called April 25 for the accelerated deployment of
monitors, part of his six-point cease-fire plan.  Finding and deploying unarmed monitors is going slowly, and
it may take another three to four weeks to deploy 100 of the
anticipated 300, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland 
said in  Washington . A total of 30 will be in place by April 30,
 Al Jazeera  reported today, citing a spokesman for Annan.  “The West and Arab nations aren’t doing their fair share
to help the Annan plan because their heart has never been
there,” Trenin said. “The Russians have been far too lenient
on Assad. They should have spoken so much more clearly, more
robustly, about the killings going on.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  