-- U.K. Stocks Climb For Fourth Day as Banks, Man Group Gain
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-04-27T16:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-k-stocks-gain-for-fourth-day-before-u-s-gdp-report.html
U.K. stocks  climbed for a fourth
day, the longest stretch of gains in six weeks, led by a surge
in Man Group Plc amid continued speculation the hedge-fund
manager may be a takeover target.  Man Group jumped 14 percent as  Societe Generale  SA upgraded
the shares and the company repurchased debt. CRH Plc and  British
Land (BLND)  Co. rose more than 2 percent as analysts recommended the
companies. Barclays Plc advanced.  The FTSE 100 Index rose 0.5 percent to 5,777.11 at the
close in London, extending its longest stretch of gains since
March 13. The FTSE All-Share Index increased 0.6 percent today,
while Ireland’s ISEQ Index added 0.9 percent as  Standard &
Poor’s  affirmed the country’s BBB+ rating.  “The gloomy macro picture has not been enough to deter
investors from pushing the FTSE a little higher,” said  Angus Campbell , head of market analysis at Capital Spreads. “They
continue to be attracted by solid corporate earnings.”  U.K. stocks climbed yesterday after earnings from Unilever
to Royal Dutch Shell Group Plc outweighed worse-than-expected
economic data. Still, the  FTSE 100 (UKX)  has lost 3.2 percent from its
2012 high in March amid renewed concern policy makers are
struggling to contain the debt crisis.  Gains were limited on the FTSE 100 today after Standard &
Poor’s downgraded Spain’s sovereign credit rating and U.S. data
disappointed investors.  U.S. Growth  U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 2.2 percent
annual rate after a 3 percent pace, Commerce Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 2.5 percent rise.  In Ireland, S&P affirmed the nation’s credit rating at BBB+
with a negative outlook. The rating company revised the
country’s deficit target to 7.5 percent of GDP from 10.3 percent
and said the government should come close to the 2013 target.  Man Group (EMG)  surged 14 percent to 107 pence, the biggest
advance since November 4, as Societe Generale upgraded the
world’s largest publicly traded hedge-fund manager to buy from
hold after a 35 percent drop in the shares in recent weeks.  “Negative momentum is too great given the proven
fundamentals for the business,” Michael Sanderson, an analyst
for Societe Generale in London, wrote in an e-mailed note today.
“Upside could emerge from further cost reductions. A bid for
the company, while more likely than in the past, remains in our
view a low probability outcome.”  UBS AG earlier in the week said the company was a
“likely” takeover target. Arnaud Giblat wrote in a report on
April 23 that Man Group could be attractive to a bidder because
of its sales and distribution relationships in  Japan  and the
rest of  Asia .  Man Group also today said it will repurchase 165 million
euros ($219 million) of its 600 million-euro, 6 percent notes
due 2015. The shares are still down 15 percent this year.  CRH Gains  CRH (CRH)  rallied 3.9 percent to 1,268 pence in London after
JPMorgan Chase & Co. upgraded the world’s second-biggest
building-materials maker to overweight from underweight, meaning
investors should now hold more of the shares than are
represented in benchmark indexes.  The company’s Americas Products unit may provide a “huge
upside” surprise as it benefits from a recovery in the private
sector, according to  Michael Morris , a London-based analyst with
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  French builder Vinci SA also today reported first-quarter
sales that beat analyst estimates.  Wolseley Gains  Wolseley Plc (WOS) , the world’s largest supplier of heating and
plumbing products, increased 1.8 percent to 2,400 pence.  British Land gained 2.8 percent to 497 pence after JPMorgan
upgraded U.K.’s second-largest real-estate investment trust to
overweight from neutral, saying the company is “well positioned
with its quality portfolio and secure  cash flow .”  Barclays rallied 4.7 percent to 223.1 pence. The lender,
which this week reported profit that topped analyst estimates,
pledged to reduce pay levels as it tries to fend off an investor
revolt over executive compensation.  Twenty-seven percent of shareholders voted against Chief
Executive Officer Robert Diamond’s 12 million-pound ($19.5
million) compensation package.  Those opposed failed to block the bank’s remuneration plans
as more than 73 percent of investors who voted supported it,
London-based Barclays said in a statement after its annual
investor meeting today. About 10 percent voted down Barclays’s
pay plans last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  