-- U.K. Services, Manufacturing Probably Slowed in April
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-k-services-manufacturing-building-probably-slowed-in-april.html
U.K. services, manufacturing and
construction probably waned this month as  Bank of England  policy
makers prepare to discuss whether they need to extend stimulus
after the economy slipped back into recession.  A gauge of  factory activity  based on a survey of purchasing
managers will fall to 51.5 from 52.1 in March, according to the
median estimate of 27 forecasts in a Bloomberg News  poll . A
reading above 50 indicates expansion. An index of  services , the
largest part of the economy, will decline to 54.1 from 55.3,
while a  construction  measure will also fall, separate surveys of
economists show.  U.K.  gross domestic product  fell in the first quarter,
pushing the economy into its first double-dip recession since
the 1970s. While Bank of England officials have said that may
hurt confidence, they must balance that risk with the threat
from faster-than-targeted inflation at their May 9-10 meeting.  “The  purchasing managers ’ surveys for April could have a
key role to play as to whether the Bank of England does more
quantitative easing in May,” said  Howard Archer , chief European
economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . If the reports
“point overall to faltering activity, pressure will mount on
the bank to provide further help to the economy.”  The manufacturing report will be published on May 1,
followed by the construction report on May 2 and the services
report on May 3.  Data Conflict  The government figures on April 25 showing the economy
contracted by 0.2 percent in the first quarter were at odds with
the purchasing-manager reports for the period, which pointed to
growth of as much as 0.5 percent, according to Markit Economics,
which compiles the surveys.  The GDP estimate was the first of three for the quarter and
some economists said output may be revised higher when more
information becomes available.  Bank of England policy makers have indicated a preference
for underlying indicators over headline GDP in assessing the
economy. Still, policy maker  Martin Weale  said on April 26 that
the first-quarter GDP data strengthened the argument for
extending stimulus again. The central bank is in the final month
of a 50 billion-pound ($81 billion) round of bond buying.  While the economic recovery has struggled to gather
momentum, policy makers have also said that  inflation  may turn
out faster than they previously forecast as rising energy costs
stoke price pressures.  Consumer-price growth accelerated in March for the first
time in six months, quickening to an annual 3.5 percent.
Inflation has been above the central bank’s 2 percent target
every month since December 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  