-- S&P 500 Gains as Retailers Surge to Record on Earnings
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-04-27T20:42:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-starbucks-slides.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
capped the best week in a month, as  retailers (S5RETL)  surged to a
record, after improving corporate earnings and consumer
confidence tempered lower-than-forecast economic growth.  Retailers in the S&P 500 climbed 3.5 percent for the
biggest gain among 24 groups.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the largest
Internet retailer, and Expedia Inc., an online-travel company,
surged at least 15 percent as earnings beat estimates. A gauge
of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes rallied 3 percent to the highest
level since October 2008.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  tumbled 5.3 percent as
same-store sales trailed analysts’ projections.  The S&P 500 added 0.2 percent to 1,403.36 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities rallied 1.8
percent since April 20 for a back-to-back  weekly  gain. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  gained 23.69 points, or 0.2 percent, to
13,228.31. About 6.2 billion shares changed hands on U.S.
exchanges, or 7 percent below the three-month average.  “It all tells me that the economy continues to grow at a
slow, steady pace,” said Jeffrey Layman, chief investment
officer of BKD Wealth Advisors in Springfield, Missouri. His
firm has $1.9 billion under management. “Consumers are feeling
more confident and it’s a good thing. We’re pleased with the
overall improvement in earnings.”  About  75 percent  of the companies in the  S&P 500  that
reported results since April 10 have topped analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Per-share profits are
forecast to have grown 5.3 percent in the first-quarter,
Bloomberg data show. That’s up from the 0.8 percent growth
projection before the earnings season started.  Economic Data  Equities rose even after data showed the  U.S. economy 
expanded at a 2.2 percent annual rate in the first quarter, less
than the 2.5 percent increase forecast by economists. Confidence
among U.S. consumers climbed in April to the highest level in a
year, according to a separate report.  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian said
lower-than-forecast U.S. growth suggests additional monetary
stimulus remains on option for the  Federal Reserve  even though
there is no immediate need for action.  “If we continue this weakening trend, the Fed will come
back in and try to sustain this market and this economy,” El-
Erian, the chief executive officer of the world’s largest
manager of bond funds, said during an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “In the Loop” with Betty Liu. “I don’t think
there is an immediate need now.”  Today’s rally trimmed this month’s decline in the S&P 500
to 0.4 percent. If the index erases its  April drop , it will cap
the fifth straight month of gains, the longest winning streak
since 2009. The gauge has gained 12 percent so far this year.  Biggest Gains  Six out of 10  groups  in the S&P 500 rose today as companies
that rely on consumer discretionary spending and industrial
shares had the biggest gains. Ten of 11 stocks in a measure of
homebuilders in S&P indexes advanced.  Amazon surged 16 percent, the biggest advance since October
2009, to $226.85. The company posted earnings-per-share that
 quadrupled  the average analyst estimate. Chief Executive Officer
Jeff Bezos is looking to add customers by pouring money into new
versions of the Kindle and warehouses that are equipped to send
out products faster.  Expedia (EXPE)  soared 24 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$40.31. “Gross bookings and revenue growth were again driven by
strength in our hotel business with global room-nights growing
24 percent, a nice acceleration from the 19 percent we saw for
the fourth quarter,” Dara Khosrowshahi, the company’s chief
executive officer, said on a conference call yesterday.  Highest Since 1997  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  jumped 3 percent to $25.15, the highest since
1997. A Vivus pill that is supposed to provide erections within
15 minutes, about half the time or less than Pfizer Inc.’s
Viagra, won U.S. regulatory approval.  Starbucks retreated 5.3 percent, the most since Aug. 18, to
$57.43. Sales at stores open at least 13 months rose 7 percent
globally in the quarter. Analysts projected a gain of 8.2
percent, the average of 17 estimates compiled by Consensus
Metrix. Such sales fell 1 percent in  Europe , the Middle East and
Africa amid “slight decreases” in transactions and average
check, Starbucks said.  Customers in Europe “are just cautious, as you would
expect, not unlike what they were like in the U.S. three and
four years ago,” Chief Financial Officer Troy Alstead said in
an interview. Starbucks “is not immune from that,” he said.  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  slumped 3.6 percent to $64.44 for the
biggest loss in the Dow. The world’s largest consumer-products
company reduced its full-year earnings forecast amid higher
costs for raw materials.  Overseas Losses  Ford Motor Co. (F)  dropped 2.3 percent to $11.60. The company
seeking a second investment-grade credit rating said first-
quarter profit fell 45 percent on a higher tax rate and as
overseas losses ate into growing income from  North America .  Allscripts Healthcare Solutions Inc. (MDRX)  plunged 36 percent,
the most in the  Russell 1000 Index (RIY) , to $10.30. The maker of
clinical software slashed its earnings forecast for 2012. Chief
Financial Officer Bill Davis will leave the company effective
May 18, and three board directors resigned after disagreeing
with a decision to terminate Chairman Phil Pead.  Utilities are poised to become the only one of the S&P
500’s 10 main industry groups whose investors receive dividends
on every stock.  AES (AES)  Corp. and  NRG Energy Inc. (NRG) , two independent
power producers, plan to introduce payouts during the second
half. They are the only utilities in the S&P 500 that don’t
already provide dividend income.  Dividend Ranking  The industry currently has the fourth-highest percentage of
dividend-paying shares.  Raw-material (S5MATR)  producers, makers of food,
beverages and other consumer staples, and industrial companies
are the top three, in that order.  More than 80 percent of S&P 500 companies pay dividends,
said  Howard Silverblatt , a New York-based senior index analyst
at S&P. The figure is the highest since January 2000. Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. sent the percentage above that threshold two days ago
by declaring a quarterly payout of 13 cents a share.  AES plans to distribute $120 million a year, starting in
the fourth quarter. That’s equivalent to an annual  dividend  of
about 16 cents a share. The Arlington, Virginia-based company’s
most recent payout was in 1994, four years before joining the
S&P 500, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  NRG, a component of the index since 2010, plans to begin
paying dividends in the third quarter. Investors would receive
36 cents a share annually. The company, based in Princeton, New
Jersey, made a similar proposal in 2007 that was scrapped after
a bid to refinance debt failed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  