-- U.S. Agrees With Japan on Relocation of Marines From Okinawa
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-04-27T09:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-s-agrees-with-japan-on-relocation-of-marines-from-okinawa.html
The U.S. and  Japan  agreed to
relocate about 9,000 Marines from Okinawa, reducing a source of
bilateral friction and enabling the Obama administration to
broaden its military presence in the Pacific.  Troops will be transfered to Hawaii, Guam and  Australia ,
creating a wider geographic footprint to deal with regional
challenges, according a joint statement from Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton , Secretary of Defense  Leon Panetta , Foreign
Minister  Koichiro Gemba  and Defense Minister Naoki Tanaka. The
accord is intended to help reduce the burden on the people of
Okinawa, they said.  Today’s  agreement “continues to provide the deterrence
and capabilities necessary for the defense of Japan and for the
maintenance of peace, security, and economic security in the
Asia-Pacific region,” according to the joint statement released
in Washington and Tokyo.  The realignment makes final a February deal that separated
a 2006 accord to move the troops and relocate the  Marine Corps
Air Station Futenma  on Okinawa to another part of the island.
Local residents and politicians have called for the base to be
moved elsewhere, citing pollution and crime and the issue led to
Japanese Prime Minister  Yukio Hatoyama ’s resignation in 2010.  Under the original deal, 8,600 Marines and 9,000 dependents
were to be transferred by 2014 to Guam, a U.S. territory in the
Pacific almost 1,500 miles (2,414 kilometers) south of Okinawa.
Now, the Obama administration is seeking a less costly plan in a
time of defense spending  cutbacks  even as it places added
emphasis on projecting force in the Asia-Pacific region.  Japan’s Costs  Japan currently pays about 188 billion yen ($2.3 billion) a
year to host 38,000 American military personnel and 43,000
dependents as part of a 52-year security treaty. More than 75
percent of the bases are on Okinawa, about 950 miles south of
Tokyo.  About 4,700 of the 9,000 personnel leaving Japan will be
relocated to  Guam , according to a Defense Department official
who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity ahead of the
announcement. About 10,000 U.S. Marines will remain on Okinawa,
the official said.  The Obama administration’s plans to move Marine Corps
expeditionary forces out of Japan are no longer contingent on
progress in building a new site at Camp Schwab, near the
Okinawan town of Henoko. The U.S. and Japan reaffirmed in the
accord the commitment to building a replacement site at Camp
Schwab.  Joint Training  Japan’s bill for the relocation of the U.S. Marines to Guam
will be $3.1 billion in 2012 dollars, the defense official said.
The U.S. is projecting the total cost of the military buildup in
Guam at about $8.6 billion, including the portion paid by the
Japanese government. The U.S. defense official said the amount
is a preliminary estimate.  The U.S. and Japan are also discussing possible joint
military training on ranges in Guam and the Northern Mariana
Islands, a move envisioned to boost the relationship between the
U.S. forces and the Japan’s  Self-Defense Forces , according to
the Defense Department official.  The  U.S. Congress  may reject any plan to move Marines from
Japan until the Defense Department submits an independent
assessment of its strategic posture in the Asia-Pacific region,
Senators  Carl Levin ,  John McCain  and  Jim Webb  said in an April
24 letter to Panetta. Levin, a Democrat from  Michigan , is
chairman of the Senate Armed Services committee; McCain of
Arizona is the top Republican on the panel; and Webb, a Virginia
Democrat, heads a subcommittee.  The three senators said in a statement that “we still have
many questions about the specific details” of today’s
agreement, and “will also continue to await the findings and
recommendations of the independent assessment.”  The independent study is due to be completed in late June,
according to the Defense Department official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in  Tokyo  at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  