-- Consumer Sentiment in U.S. Climbs to Highest Level in Year
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-04-27T14:25:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-s-michigan-consumer-sentiment-increased-to-76-4-in-april.html
Confidence among U.S. consumers
climbed in April to the highest level in a year as Americans
became more upbeat about the outlook for the economy.  The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final index of
 sentiment  increased to 76.4 from 76.2 last month. The gauge was
projected to hold at the 75.7 level initially reported earlier
this month, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists.  Gasoline costs that have declined since reaching an 11-
month high earlier in the month are giving households some
relief. Job gains may be help make American more comfortable
stepping up purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the
economy.  “People have been spending; whether they continue to spend
is a function of what happens with the labor market,” said
Joseph Lavorgna, chief economist at Deutsche Bank Securities
Inc. in  New York . “Assuming stock prices hold up, and that’s in
part because the labor data look OK, we should expect the
consumer to continue to open his or her wallet.”  Another report today showed the economy expanded less than
forecast in the first quarter as a smaller contribution from
inventories overshadowed a pickup in consumer spending,
homebuilding, and auto production. Gross domestic product rose
at a 2.2 percent annual rate after a 3 percent pace, Commerce
Department figures showed in  Washington .  Estimates for the sentiment gauge ranged from 74 to 77 in
the Bloomberg survey of 61 economists. The index averaged 64.2
during the last recession. It averaged 89 in the five years
before the 18-month economic slump that ended in June 2009.  Bloomberg Measure  Today’s sentiment report follows yesterday’s release of the
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, which fell to a two-month low
after reaching a four-year high on April 15. The comfort index
fell to minus 35.8 from minus 31.4 a week earlier.  The Michigan index of  current conditions , which reflects
Americans’ perceptions of their financial situation and whether
it’s a good time to buy big-ticket goods like cars, fell to 82.9
from 86 a month earlier. The gauge improved from the preliminary
April reading of 80.6.  The gauge of consumer  expectations  for six months from now,
which more closely projects the direction of  consumer spending ,
increased to 72.3 this month from 69.8 in March.  The labor market has showed signs of cooling after more
Americans than forecast filed for  unemployment benefits  last
week. Jobless claims fell to 388,000 from a revised 389,00 the
prior week, the Labor Department reported.  Dimmer View of Finances  Today’s report also showed that Americans were more
pessimistic about their finances than in March. Views on
finances weakened across all income groups, with 28 percent
saying they were improved, down from 34 percent who said so last
month.  Consumers in today’s confidence report said they expect an
inflation rate of 3.2 percent over the next 12 months, down from
3.9 percent in March.  Over the next five years, the figures tracked by Federal
Reserve policy makers, Americans expected a 2.9 percent rate of
inflation this month compared with 3 percent in March.  Along with signs of economic growth, consumers are coping
with inflation in food and fuel, said Steven Burd, chief
executive officer of  Safeway Inc. (SWY) , a retail food and drug chain
based in Pleasanton,  California .  “I think there’s a recovery under way and at the end of
the day I think consumers see that and, you know,  consumer
confidence   builds,” Burd said in an April 26 earnings call.
“If you can see a rise in  home prices  while  interest rates  are
still low, that should actually bode well for consumer
confidence in the future.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  