-- U.S. Senate Passes Aid to Victims of Domestic Violence
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-04-27T16:54:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-s-senate-passes-aid-to-victims-of-domestic-violence.html
U.S. Senate  Democrats are urging
lawmakers in the Republican-led House to quickly pass
legislation reauthorizing assistance to victims of domestic
violence.  Fifteen Senate Republicans joined all of the chamber’s
Democrats yesterday to pass a renewal of the 1994 Violence
Against Women Act by a vote of 68-31. Democrats cast the bill,
which would authorize $660 million through 2016 for domestic
violence shelters and police training, as a test of Republicans’
attitudes toward women.  “Today’s strong bipartisan vote will give law enforcement
agencies the tools they need to prosecute and convict the
perpetrators of these heinous crimes, and will help victims get
the protection and support they need,” Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said in a statement urging House
passage of his chamber’s measure.  Republicans have been trying to blunt Democrats’ criticism
that the party is hostile toward women.  House Republicans 
yesterday said they may vote during the week of May 14 on their
own measure to reauthorize the law.  “It has been the goal and the desire of Senate Republicans
to pass the Violence Against Women Act without procedural
impediment,” Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, told reporters before the vote.  Support Among Women  Democrats say they hope their support for the bill will
buttress the party’s support among women. A Quinnipiac
University national poll conducted April 11-17 found that
President  Barack Obama  holds a 10-percentage-point advantage
among women surveyed. He was backed by 49 percent, compared with
39 percent for former Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , the
presumptive Republican nominee. Obama trails slightly with men,
with 43 percent supporting him and 46 percent backing Romney.  The funding authorized under the Senate bill is less than
the $682.5 million in the previous law, which expired Sept. 30.  “A strong vote here helps the people who want to do the
right thing” in the  House of Representatives , the legislation’s
chief sponsor, Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said
in an interview.  House Republican Bill  The House’s version tracks closely with an alternative from
Senate Republicans that was defeated yesterday. It would have
stripped language in the Senate bill expanding the number of
visas available to domestic violence victims who aid criminal
investigations.  Representative Gwen Moore, a Wisconsin Democrat, told
reporters today that the bill passed by the Senate has “all the
elements” to “help all women, despite their immigration
status, despite their gender or sexual orientation.”  “That bill ought to be brought up in that form,” said
Moore, who has sponsored in the House her own version of
legislation reauthorizing the 1994 law. “The inability to bring
forth that bill in the House is another example of the gender
bias against women.”  Senator  Amy Klobuchar , a Minnesota Democrat, said in an
interview that passage of the Senate bill was a “great victory
for women,” with bipartisan support, and she’s “very hopeful”
the House will approve it.  The White House strongly backed the Senate measure because
it provides services to victims and “improves the prosecution
of these crimes,”  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama,
said yesterday in a conference call with reporters. Jarrett
wouldn’t say whether Obama would veto a House version of the
bill.  Domestic Violence Statistics  According to the White House, incidents of domestic
violence have dropped by more than 50 percent since the law
first was enacted in 1994. Even so, one in three women in the
U.S. will experience rape, physical violence or stalking by an
intimate partner at some time in their lives, the White House
said, citing the 2010 National Intimate Partner and Sexual
Violence Survey.  The survey found that more than 12 million individuals
experienced domestic violence in the one-year period, and that
while women are disproportionately affected by domestic
violence, men also are victims.  The White House opposed the alternative proposed by
Republican Senators  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa  and  Kay Bailey Hutchison  of  Texas , Jarrett said.  “We believe it takes us backwards,” she said. She said
the Republican measure would discourage local police departments
from arresting domestic violence offenders, delete provisions
for aiding gay men, lesbians and trans-gender people and weaken
proposals to confront high rates of violence on college
campuses.  Before yesterday’s vote, Senator  John Cornyn , a Texas
Republican, said Democrats are “making this harder than it
needs to be.”  “This should be simple,” he said.  Leahy blamed Republicans, saying, “There should not have
been all this time to get to something that just makes sense.”  The bill is S. 1925.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  