-- Taiwan Weighed for U.S. Jet Sale at Risk of Riling China
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-04-28T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/u-s-to-consider-sales-of-new-f-16s-to-taiwan-white-house-says.html
The Obama administration will give
“serious consideration” to selling Taiwan new  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighter jets, a White House official said, creating a
potential new flashpoint with China ahead of next week’s high-
level meetings between U.S. and Chinese officials.  A jet sale “warrants serious consideration given the
growing military threat to Taiwan,” Robert Nabors, the White
House’s director of legislative affairs, said in a letter
yesterday to Senator  John Cornyn , a  Texas  Republican.  The comments risk spawning a political clash with China as
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and Treasury Secretary
 Timothy Geithner  prepare to meet their Chinese counterparts in
Beijing next week for annual talks. China, which insists that
Taiwan be reunited with the mainland by force if necessary, has
cut military contacts with the U.S. in the past over American
arms sales to the island.  “This is going to cause huge problems for the Chinese,”
 Bonnie Glaser , an analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, said in an interview. The
tension may be compounded if a human-rights group’s speculation
bears out that an activist who escaped house arrest in eastern
China this week is holed up at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, she
said.  New F-16 C/D fighters would replace aging F-5 jets and
supplement a refurbishment program for Taiwan’s F-16 A/Bs that
President Barack Obama’s administration announced in September.  Lockheed in Texas  Lockheed has said a Taiwanese purchase of new F-16s would
help keep open its  production line  in  Fort Worth , Texas, in
Cornyn’s state.  “A contract for new F-16s to Taiwan, depending on timing
and quantity, could significantly extend the F-16 production
line,” Laura Siebert, a spokeswoman for Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Lockheed fell 40 cents to $91.30 at the close in New York
trading yesterday and has risen 13 percent this year.  “The Chinese position of opposing U.S. arms sales to
Taiwan has been consistent, clear and firm,” Geng Shuang, a
spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in  Washington , said in an e-
mail yesterday.  Taiwan has pressed the U.S. for years to allow the purchase
of new F-16s, saying it is falling dangerously behind in its
ability to counter potential threats from China. The mainland
has an arsenal that includes missiles stationed across the
 Taiwan Strait .  ‘Near-Term’ Decision  The Obama administration plans to decide on a “near-term
course of action on how to address Taiwan’s fighter gap,
including through the sale to Taiwan of an undetermined number
of new U.S.-made fighter aircraft,” Nabors wrote.  The U.S.-Taiwan Business Council, a trade-promotion group
that has lobbied for the F-16 sales for years, read that as a
pledge to provide the planes.  “They are committing to new aircraft as part of their
strategy to assist  Taiwan  in maintaining a credible defense,”
Rupert Hammond-Chambers, the council’s president, said in an e-
mail. “We had to date not been successful in getting the
administration to admit” that the difference in the number of
fighter jets on each side of the Strait is significant, he said.  A spokesman for Taiwan’s representative office in
Washington said he didn’t know whether his country had been
notified of a potential sale.  “We always appreciate U.S. concern and appreciation of
Taiwan’s defense needs,” the spokesman, Frank Wang, said in an
interview.  Upgrades Instead  The U.S. parried Taiwan’s request for new fighters in
September, agreeing only to a $5.3 billion package to upgrade
Taiwan’s older F-16s with new radar, smart bombs and laser-
guided equipment. It was the first time in several such
announcements that  China  didn’t suspend military talks.  Chinese officials considered their response last year
restrained, Glaser said.  “They believed when we made the decision on the upgrades
that that was a done deal and that we were not going to consider
going forward with sales of new fighters,” she said. “This
will, I think, come to them as a major shock.”  Yesterday’s letter from Nabors differs from a Feb. 15
letter to Cornyn from Acting Undersecretary of Defense  James
Miller  in response to the lawmaker’s demand that the
administration acknowledge Taiwan’s defense needs, including
F-16s. That came after Obama and Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta 
presented a new defense strategy in January that shifted more
attention to the Asia-Pacific region.  ‘Cannot Match’  Miller cited announcements of more than $12 billion in arms
sales to Taiwan in the previous two years and the conclusions of
an earlier report to Congress that Taiwan “cannot match the
Mainland one-for-one.”  “We believe the F-16 A/B upgrade effectively meets
Taiwan’s current needs,” Miller wrote, while saying the
Pentagon would “continue to consider Taiwan’s requests.”  White House spokesman Tommy Vietor said U.S. policy hasn’t
changed, and he offered a more non-committal variation on
Nabors’ comment about a “near-term course of action.” Vietor
said the administration would work with Taiwan “on its
development of a comprehensive defense strategy and a resourcing
plan.”  “We take very seriously our commitment to Taiwan’s defense
as outlined in the Taiwan Relations Act,” Vietor said yesterday
in an e-mail. “We do not comment on future possible foreign
military sales unless formal congressional notification has
taken place.”  Cornyn’s Leverage  Cornyn released Nabors’ letter yesterday after lifting a
hold the senator had placed on the administration’s nomination
of Obama aide Mark Lippert for assistant secretary of defense
for  Asia , using the nomination as leverage to press for fighter
jet sales to Taiwan. Nabors didn’t specify whether, when or how
many fighters the administration would consider.  “We are mindful of and share your concerns about Taiwan’s
growing shortfall in fighter aircraft,” Nabors wrote to Cornyn.
“We recognize that China has 2,300 operational combat aircraft,
while our democratic partner Taiwan has only 490.”  The Obama administration has sought to improve military
relations with China while calling repeatedly for the Chinese
leadership to be more open about technology it’s developing that
could threaten U.S. access in the Asia-Pacific region.  China said in March that it plans to increase defense
spending 11.2 percent this year. The country’s defense spending
is the second highest in the world after the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  