-- Luck, Griffin Headline NFL Draft as Giants Take Running Back
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-27T04:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/luck-griffin-headline-nfl-draft-as-giants-take-running-back.html
Andrew Luck  and Robert Griffin III
became the fifth pair of quarterbacks to be taken with the top
two picks in the National Football League draft, while the Super
Bowl-champion New York Giants closed the first round by
selecting the last of three running backs.  Luck, the Heisman Trophy runner-up the past two seasons at
 Stanford University , went No. 1 to the  Indianapolis Colts  as the
replacement for four-time Most Valuable Player  Peyton Manning ,
who was cut last month after 14 years with the team.  “I don’t know if in my mind it’ll be because I was the
number one pick, but I have high expectations for myself and
I’ll try to go out there and prove myself every week,” Luck,
22, said last night at  New York ’s Radio City Music Hall, where
the first of seven rounds was completed.  The  New York Jets  were booed when they used their first
pick, the 16th overall, on University of North Carolina
defensive end Quinton Coples, while the Giants ended the opening
round after just over three hours by taking Virginia Tech
running back David Wilson with the 32nd pick.  The second and third rounds will be held tonight, followed
by the final four rounds tomorrow.  Griffin, who won the Heisman at Baylor University last
season as college football’s best player, was taken second by
the  Washington Redskins , who last month sent three first-round
picks to  St. Louis  to move up four spots on the draft board.  Quarterbacks Go 1-2  The last time quarterbacks were the first two picks was
1999, when Tim Couch was selected No. 1 by the  Cleveland Browns 
and Donovan McNabb went second to the  Philadelphia Eagles . A
year earlier, the Colts took Manning with the top pick and the
 San Diego Chargers  followed by drafting Ryan Leaf.  “You don’t play quarterbacks in this league,” Griffin
said about being connected to Luck. “You’ll always be compared
head-to-head. But you play defenses.”  Two other quarterbacks were taken in the first round last
night, including the Miami Dolphins’ selection of Texas A&M’s
Ryan Tannehill, who converted from wide receiver as a junior,
with the No. 8 pick. It’s the first time the Dolphins, who have
had eight different players lead them in passing yards the past
nine seasons, have drafted a quarterback in the opening round
since  Dan Marino  in 1983. Tannehill set Texas A&M records with
3,744 yards and 29 touchdowns as a senior.  The Cleveland Browns selected 28-year-old Oklahoma State
quarterback  Brandon Weeden  with the 22nd selection after trading
up one spot to draft University of Alabama running back Trent
Richardson with the third overall pick.  Top Running Back  Richardson was the first running back taken among the first
three picks since Reggie Bush in 2006. He was also among four
players from the defending national champion Crimson Tide to be
drafted in the first round.  “He’s passionate, he’s productive, he’s durable and he’s
the kind of runner we think is going to help us put an offense
together to score the points to win the games that we’re going
to win,” Browns coach Pat Shurmur said of Richardson, who
rushed for 1,679 yards and 21 touchdowns as a junior last year.  The Browns sent the fourth overall pick to the Vikings as
well as their fourth-, fifth- and seventh-round choices to move
into position to add Richardson.  The trade was among eight during the opening round of the
draft and a record 19 including trades made in prior years
involving first-round 2012 picks.  After the Vikings took  University of Southern California 
offensive tackle Matt Kalil fourth, the  Jacksonville Jaguars 
traded up two slots to select Oklahoma State wide receiver
Justin Blackmon at No. 5.  Cowboys Get Booed  The  Dallas Cowboys  drew some of the loudest boos in New
York from fans of the division-rival Giants when they moved up
to sixth to take Louisiana State cornerback Morris Claiborne,
the 2011 Jim Thorpe award winner as the nation’s top defensive
back.  Luck is regarded by some scouts as the NFL’s best
quarterback prospect since Manning in 1998, having led Stanford
to a 31-7 record over four seasons while winning multiple player
of the year honors and setting Pac-12 Conference career records
for passing efficiency and completion percentage.  Worst Record  The 6-foot-4, 234-pound Luck will probably immediately take
over at quarterback for a team that tied for the NFL’s worst
record last season at 2-14. Manning, who was the Colts’ last No.
1 overall pick, was released on March 7 and signed with the
 Denver Broncos  as a free agent.  The Colts opted to part ways with Manning rather than pay
$35.4 million in salary and bonus money this year to a 35-year-
old seeking to come back from multiple neck surgeries that
forced him to miss the 2011 season.  Now they’ll make the transition to Luck, the son of former
NFL quarterback Oliver Luck.  “We got our man,” Colts new coach Chuck Pagano said at a
news conference. “We did get the very best player, the very
best quarterback in this year’s draft.”  Griffin, 22, joins a Redskins team that hasn’t had a
winning season since 2007 and hasn’t won a playoff game since
2005.  He entered the draft after a junior season in which he was
the nation’s top-rated quarterback, completing 72 percent of his
passes at Baylor for 4,293 yards, 37 touchdowns and six
interceptions. The former All-American hurdler also rushed for
699 yards and 10 scores.  “To whom much is given, much is expected and I’m going to
expect more out of myself and my teammates than any of the fans
will,” said Griffin, who last night wore maroon and gold socks
-- the Redskins’ colors -- with his baby blue suit.  Patriots Trade Up  After the Jets drafted Coples at No. 16, the rival  New
England Patriots  twice traded up to take defensive players,
getting Syracuse University defensive end Chandler Jones with
the 21st pick and Alabama linebacker Dont’a Hightower 25th.  The final two first-round picks were running backs, as the
 Tampa Bay Buccaneers  selected Boise State’s Doug Martin at No.
31 while the Giants followed with Wilson, who was the Atlantic
Coast Conference offensive player of the year after rushing for
1,709 yards and nine touchdowns at  Virginia Tech .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  