-- Luck, Griffin Are Taken 1-2 in NFL Draft as Giants Select Wilson
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-27T03:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/luck-griffin-are-fifth-quarterback-pair-taken-1-2-in-nfl-draft.html
Andrew Luck  and Robert Griffin III
became the fifth pair of quarterbacks taken with the top two
picks in the National Football League draft, selected by the
Indianapolis Colts and  Washington Redskins , respectively.  The Cleveland Browns traded up one spot with Minnesota to
take University of Alabama running back Trent Richardson with
the third pick, while the Vikings took  University of Southern
California  offensive tackle Matt Kalil fourth. The Jacksonville
Jaguars traded up two slots to select Oklahoma State wide
receiver Justin Blackmon at No. 5.  The  New York Jets  used their first-round pick, the 16th
overall, to try to bolster their defense with University of
North Carolina defensive end Quinton Coples. The  New York Giants 
closed the first round by selecting  Virginia Tech  running back
David Wilson at No. 32 overall.  Luck, the Heisman Trophy runner-up the past two seasons at
 Stanford University , went No. 1 to the Colts as the replacement
for Peyton Manning, who was released last month after winning
four Most Valuable Player awards in 14 years with the team.  “It was everything I ever thought it would be,” Luck said
in a televised interview. “I feel so blessed, so fortunate to
be in this situation and can’t wait to start with the Colts.”  Griffin, who won the Heisman at Baylor University last
season as college football’s best player, was taken next by the
Redskins, who last month sent three first-round picks to the  St.
Louis  Rams to move up four spots on the draft board.  It’s the first time quarterbacks were taken with the first
two picks since 1999, when Tim Couch was selected No. 1 by the
 Cleveland Browns  and Donovan McNabb went second to the
 Philadelphia Eagles . A year earlier, the Colts took Manning with
the top pick and the  San Diego Chargers  followed by drafting
Ryan Leaf.  Other 1-2 Quarterbacks  Since the NFL’s common draft was instituted in 1967, the
only other times quarterbacks were taken with the top two picks
were in 1971 (Jim Plunkett and Archie Manning) and 1993 (Drew Bledsoe and Rick Mirer).  The  Dallas Cowboys  drew loud boos in New York from fans of
the division-rival Giants when they traded up to sixth to take
Louisiana State cornerback Morris Claiborne, the 2011 Jim Thorpe
award winner as the nation’s top defensive back.  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers then took  Alabama  defensive back
Mark Barron at No. 7, while the  Miami Dolphins  followed by
drafting a quarterback in the first round for the first time
since Dan Marino in 1983, selecting Texas A&M’s Ryan Tannehill.  The Carolina Panthers picked Boston College linebacker Luke
Kuechly ninth and the Buffalo Bills rounded out the top 10 by
taking University of South Carolina cornerback Stephon Gilmore.  Defensive tackles were taken with three of the next four
picks: Memphis’s Dontari Poe to  Kansas City  at No. 11,
Mississippi State’s Fletcher Cox to Philadelphia at No. 12 and
LSU’s Michael Brockers to St. Louis at No. 14.  Second Receiver  Michael Floyd of Notre Dame was the second wide receiver
taken, going 13th to the  Arizona Cardinals , while the  Seattle
Seahawks  took the first true pass-rusher in West Virginia
linebacker Bruce Irvin with the 15th pick.  The second and third rounds will be held tomorrow, while
the final four rounds will be conducted April 28.  Luck, 22, guided Stanford to an 11-1 record last year while
passing for 3,170 yards and 35 touchdowns. He’s been regarded by
some scouts as the NFL’s best quarterback prospect since Manning
in 1998.  Colts Turn to Luck  The 6-foot-4, 234-pound Luck will probably immediately take
over at quarterback for a team that tied for the NFL’s worst
record last season at 2-14. The only other quarterbacks on the
Colts’ roster are Drew Stanton and Trevor Vittatoe.  Manning, who was the Colts’ last No. 1 overall pick, was
released on March 7 and signed with the  Denver Broncos  as a free
agent. The Colts opted to part ways with Manning rather than pay
$35.4 million in salary and bonus money this year to a 35-year-
old seeking to come back from multiple neck surgeries that
forced him to miss the 2011 season.  Now they’ll make the transition to Luck, the son of former
NFL quarterback Oliver Luck.  The valedictorian of his high school class, Andrew Luck
played four seasons at Stanford and the engineering major will
graduate on June 7 with a degree in architectural design. He had
a 31-7 record with the Cardinal and won multiple national player
of the year honors, including the Maxwell and Walter Camp awards
last season, while setting  Pac-12 Conference  career records for
passing efficiency and completion percentage.  “He’s a football junkie,” Colts new coach Chuck Pagano
told reporters this week. “He’s big, strong, physical, he can
make every throw out there and he’s a great leader in his own
way. We’ve got a great one for years to come and it’s another
piece of the puzzle that we feel really good about.”  Manning’s Legacy  While Manning had a 3-13 record as a rookie with the Colts
in 1998, he led the team to at least 10 wins in 11 of the next
12 years while winning four league MVP awards and a Super Bowl
title after the 2006 season. Manning left the Colts with the
third-most yards passing and touchdowns in NFL history.  Luck’s selection marks the fourth straight year that a
quarterback has been taken No. 1 in the draft and the 31st time
overall, the most of any position. He’s the fourth Stanford
quarterback taken with the top pick, joining John Elway (1983),
Plunkett (1971) and Bobby Garrett (1954).  Griffin, 22, entered the draft after a junior season in
which he was college football’s top-rated quarterback,
completing 72 percent of his passes at Baylor for 4,293 yards,
37 touchdowns and six interceptions. The former All-American
hurdler also rushed for 699 yards and 10 scores.  Maroon-Gold Socks  Griffin joins a Redskins team that hasn’t had a winning
season since 2007 and hasn’t won a playoff game since 2005.
Three different quarterbacks have led the team in yards passing
the past three seasons.  Griffin is the first quarterback taken by the Redskins
among the top two picks since 1961, when Norm Snead was the
second player drafted. The highest the franchise had taken a
quarterback in the draft since then was in 1994, when Heath
Shuler was the third overall pick. Fans in  New York  chanted
“RG3” before Griffin’s name was called.  “To whom much is given, much is expected and I’m going to
expect more out of myself and my teammates than any of the fans
will,” said Griffin, who wore maroon and gold socks -- the
Redskins’ colors -- with his baby blue suit.  The Browns sent their No. 4 overall selection to the
Vikings along with their fourth-, fifth- and seventh-round draft
picks to land Richardson, who was a Heisman Trophy finalist
after rushing for 1,679 yards and 21 touchdowns as a junior last
season.  The last running back taken among the top three picks in
the NFL’s draft was Reggie Bush by New Orleans in 2006.  Minnesota  followed by taking USC’s 6-foot-7, 306-pound
Kalil, who will likely start on the left side of the offensive
line to protect second-year quarterback Christian Ponder.  The Dolphins at No. 8 took Tannehill, who converted to
quarterback from wide receiver as a junior and set Texas A&M
records with 3,744 yards and 29 touchdowns as a senior.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  