-- Ukraine Blames Terrorists as Four Blasts Injure at Least 29
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-04-27T16:27:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/ukraine-blames-terrorists-as-four-blasts-injure-at-least-27-1-.html
Ukraine, which co-hosts the
European Soccer Championships in six weeks, blamed terrorists
for four explosions in the city of Dnipropetrovsk that injured
at least 29 people today.  The blasts occurred in a 72-minute period beginning just
before midday local time, with at least 10 children among the
injured, the Interior and Emergency Ministries said. A probe
into a “terrorist act” was opened, the Prosecutor General’s
Office said on its website. President  Viktor Yanukovych  called
the incident “yet another challenge for the whole country.”  Political tensions have risen as Ukraine gears up for
parliamentary elections in October, with supporters of jailed
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko  rallying today in the
capital, Kiev, for her release. The former Soviet state joins
 Poland  in hosting the European soccer tournament, which kicks
off June 8 in Warsaw. Three matches will be played in Donetsk,
250 kilometers (156 miles) from Dnipropetrovsk.  The blasts are a “worrying development,” Timothy Ash, a
strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in  London , wrote
in an e-mail today. “The political situation more generally has
taken a significant turn for the worse in recent months with key
opposition figures jailed.”  Yields Rise  Yields on Ukrainian  government bonds  due 2013 rose to 8.573
percent from 8.570 percent at yesterday’s close, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  The Union of European Football Associations said in a
 statement  on its website that it retains “confidence in the
security measures that have been developed by the authorities in
view of UEFA Euro 2012, and which will ensure a smooth and
festive tournament.”  Poland’s government is “closely” watching the situation,
Prime Minister Donald Tusk told a news conference in Warsaw,
adding that he’ll discuss the events with Interior Minister
Jacek Cichocki later today.  The European Union will maintain close contact with the
Ukrainian authorities and will seek to obtain “updated
information on the cause of the explosions, the status of the
victims, and any means by which assistance can be provided to
Ukraine,”  Catherine Ashton , the bloc’s high representative for
foreign affairs and security policy, said in a statement.  Tram Station, Cinema  The first blast occurred at 11:50 a.m. at a tram station,
hurting five people, and was followed 40 minutes later by
another in a garbage can near a cinema that wounded three more,
the  Interior Ministry  said on its  website .  A third explosion, near a park entrance, injured two
people, it said. A fourth occurred in the city centre at 1:02
p.m., according to the Emergency Ministry.  Interior Minister Vitaliy Zakharchneko and other officials
are traveling to Dnipropetrovsk, which is located 480 kilometers
southeast of Kiev.  The blasts aren’t the first the city of 1 million people
has experienced. A bomb exploded in a garbage can in the center
in November, killing a businessman. Today’s attacks may be
connected, Prosecutor General Viktor Pshonka said in televised
remarks on Channel 5.  Demonstrators marched through central  Kiev  today,
protesting in front of the government’s offices, parliament and
the presidential administration building and demanding freedom
for Tymoshenko, a former prime minister who was sentenced to
seven years in prison in October for abuse of office.  ‘Give Yulia Freedom’  About 2,000 people attended, blocking traffic, shouting
“give Yulia freedom,” and “authorities, go away,” the Unian
news service reported.  Opposition parties have been physically blocking Ukraine’s
parliament for four days after Tymoshenko, 51, started a hunger
strike on April 20, claiming mistreatment and abuse during her
incarceration and accusing Yanukovych of political persecution.
They allowed access today so lawmakers can discuss the blasts.  The German government said it’s “very concerned” about
the reports, with  Chancellor Angela Merkel  undecided as whether
she’ll attend June’s  soccer tournament . The U.S,  Russia  and the
European Union have condemned Tymoshenko’s imprisonment.  Three members of her Cabinet have been jailed. The latest,
Valery Ivashchenko, a former acting Defense Minister, was handed
a five-year sentence this month for overstepping his authority
while in office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net 
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  