-- TV Stations Must Disclose Political Ad Buys on Internet
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-04-27T17:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/tv-stations-told-by-u-s-to-show-political-ad-buys-on-website.html
U.S. television broadcasters must
disclose details on a public website of political advertising
purchases, including rates paid, under rules approved by the
Federal Communications Commission.  The requirement will apply initially to 200 stations that
are affiliates of the four largest U.S. networks, the FCC
decided today in a 2-1 vote, with the agency’s lone Republican
saying he objected to posting rates paid for individual ads. The
requirement was part of a broader disclosure requirement that
passed 3-0.  “Our hope and expectation is it will take effect during
this election,” William Lake, the FCC’s media bureau chief,
said at a press conference in  Washington .  The rule will take effect 30 days after it’s approved by
the Office of Management and Budget, a White House arm, Lake
said. It goes into effect for the other 1,800 U.S. broadcast
stations in two years, he said.  Broadcast stations now keep records of political ads on
paper at their offices, where they are open to public
inspection. Today’s vote requires the records to made available
on a website to be run by the FCC.  The new rule covers about 60 percent of all expected 2012
political advertising purchased locally or regionally, where the
most televised political ads air, according to a note today by
 Ken Goldstein  and Elizabeth Wilner of Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks election spending.  ‘Apple Pie’  “The question in front of us is whether, in the 21st
century, ‘available for public inspection’ means stuck in office
filing cabinets or available online,” FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski , a Democrat, said. “Or as one person put it, ‘Who
can be against mom, apple pie and the American way of
transparency?’”  Republican Commissioner Robert McDowell said he agrees with
more disclosure without posting “commercially sensitive”
information.  “Posting rate information online may cause market
distortions, including price signaling, which can lead to rates
mysteriously rising in some markets,” McDowell said.  Stations must offer campaign advertisements low rates, and
broadcasters are concerned that non-political ad-buyers will be
able to look online and see cheaper rates and demand the same
prices, Goldstein and Wilner said.  Competitive Standing  Buys for 45 percent of presidential campaign ads would have
been disclosed online if the FCC’s requirement went into effect
on this date in 2008, Goldstein and Wilner said. The others were
made in smaller markets where stations wouldn’t have had to post
the buys online, they said.  The  National Association of Broadcasters , in an e-mailed
statement, said it disagrees with the FCC’s move.  “By forcing broadcasters to be the only medium to disclose
on the Internet our political advertising rates, the FCC
jeopardizes the competitive standing of stations,” said  Dennis Wharton , a spokesman for the Washington-based trade group.
Members include the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox,
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC and  CBS Corp. (CBS)   Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, praised
the FCC’s move. “The American people have a right to know how
the public airwaves are being used,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  