-- Velarde Sees No Limit on Peru Central Bank Purchases
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-27T21:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/velarde-sees-no-limit-on-peru-central-bank-purchases-correct-.html
(Corrects to say chicken prices decreased in 10th
paragraph.)  Peru ’s central bank sees no limit
“in the short term” to how many dollars it can purchase to
stem gains in the sol as its currency trades at a 15-year high,
bank President Julio Velarde said.  The sol’s 2.3 percent advance this year and 20 percent in
the past five years stems from foreign investors buying sol-
denominated government debt and households and companies
shifting their savings to the local currency from dollars,
Velarde said on a conference call with investors today.  The central bank has  bought  $7.7 billion in the  spot market 
this year to soak up the additional supply, helping swell
international reserves 17 percent to $57.5 billion at the end of
April. After buying dollars the central bank issues sol
certificates of deposit locally to drain the extra soles from
the economy through a process known as sterilization.  “I don’t see limits in the short term to the purchase of
dollars because of sterilization factors,” Velarde said. “If
we couldn’t sterilize because we were worried about inflation,
we could also consider increasing  reserve requirements .”  Peru’s sol rose 0.5 percent to 2.6375 per  U.S. dollar  this
week, from 2.6510 on April 20, the steepest gain since the five
days ending Dec. 2, according to Deutsche Bank’s local unit. The
currency gained 0.2 percent today and last traded below 2.64 in
December 1996, data from Peru’s financial regulator show.  Sudden Depreciation  The central bank is more concerned about sudden
depreciation in the sol than it is by appreciation because of
the effect on the banking system, where about 44 percent of all
loans are denominated in dollars, Velarde said.  The sol’s appreciation and the comparatively lower  interest
rates  for dollar deposits are encouraging companies and
households to save in the local currency, according to the
country’s bank association. Dollar deposits fell 1.4 percent to
in March from February while sol-denominated deposits climbed
3.8 percent.  The central bank isn’t considering applying currency
controls “of any kind” to slow the sol’s appreciation, Velarde
said.  “If people are betting that currency is going to be
appreciating always, probably they’ll be mistaken” at some
point, he said. “I don’t know how much we’re going to acquire.
You can consider that there might be some limit, but we don’t
see it at this time.”  Inflation Target  Velarde said he’s confident Peru’s annual inflation rate
will be within the target of 1 percent to 3 percent before the
end of the year. A decline in wholesale chicken prices this
month has yet to be passed through to consumers, he said.  Consumer prices rose 0.77 percent in March, the fastest
pace in eight months, as the cost of chicken jumped 8.8 percent
and fuel prices rose. The annual inflation rate held at about
4.2 percent.  South America ’s sixth-largest economy may expand as much as
6.2 percent this year, fueled by private investment growing by
more than 10 percent and “strong” public investment, he said.
Demand for housing is boosting growth as the nation’s middle
class expands and formal employment climbs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  