-- Verbio Advances on Straw-to-Gas Fuel Expansion: Frankfurt Mover
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-04-27T12:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/verbio-seeks-investors-to-expand-straw-to-gas-car-fuel-in-europe.html
Verbio AG (VBK) , a German biofuels
producer, rose the most in five weeks in Frankfurt trading after
saying it’s in talks to expand its straw-to-gas technology as
governments promote cleaner transportation fuels.  Verbio climbed as much as 6.7 percent to 2.91 euros, the
biggest intraday gain since March 21, paring a 22 percent loss
the past four weeks.  The company has earmarked 150 million euros ($198 million)
by 2014 to build two straw-to-biomethane plants in Germany and
 Hungary  and upgrade existing facilities, according to Chief
Executive Officer Claus Sauter. It’s talking to parties from the
energy, agriculture and finance industries to raise investment
in the technology it began researching in 2007, he said.  “The shares have suffered strongly during the past weeks
so this is definitely good news that produces upside,” Wais Samadzada, an analyst at Montega AG, said today by telephone
from Hamburg. Samadzada recommends  holding  the stock and has a
target price of 3.60 euros.  Verbio’s technology turns agricultural waste into natural
gas to power cars and trucks. The European Union has a target to
get 10 percent of its transport fuel from renewable sources by
2020 in a bid to cut fossil-fuel imports and curb polluting
emissions. Verbio last month opened what it said was the world’s
first straw-to-biomethane plant and is upgrading facilities.  Spur Earnings  “If Verbio succeeds in raising efficiency at these plants
to at least 90 percent from about 75 percent today, it would be
a major boost for their earnings,” Samadzada said. Verbio
reported 2011 earnings before interest and tax of 7.6 million
euros, a decline of 27 percent from a year earlier.  “The potential to use biomethane from agricultural waste
in transportation is huge,” Sauter said in an interview in
Berlin. “Diesel is currently double the price of natural gas.
We have a technology that works, is cost-effective and
sustainable.”  Verbio traded up 5.5 percent at 2.88 euros as of 2:10 p.m.
local time. The stock started trading at 15.15 euros on its
debut in October 2006.  Verbio generated most of its revenue last year producing
biodiesel and ethanol, a motor-fuel additive. It’s now pushing
biomethane, a so-called second-generation biofuel that doesn’t
require food crops for its feedstock, and its two planned sites
in  Germany  and Hungary will have a capacity of as much as 30
megawatts each.  ‘Great Potential’  “Growth opportunities for biofuels that use up food stocks
will be limited,” Sauter said. The Leipzig-based company plans
to sell the fuel for the same price as natural gas, he said.  “Biomethane as a car fuel offers great potential but has
been held back so far as it requires massive investments into
infrastructure,” said Aleksandra Rybczynska, a bioenergy
analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  London . “Germany,
which has a small fleet of natural-gas vehicles and fueling
stations in place as well as a favorable support scheme for
residue-based fuels, can offer an easier start.”  Verbio has sold biomethane to about 50 natural-gas filling
stations, and about 90,000 vehicles in Germany are equipped to
drive on the fuel, Sauter said. The company is seeking to raise
that number by approaching logistics businesses with trucks that
can run on diesel and biomethane, a hybrid set-up tested
successfully in Verbio’s own fleet, Sauter said.  “With a biomethane level of 40 percent, you can cut not
only  carbon emissions  but also fuel costs significantly,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  