-- Vestas Appoints Andresen as CFO, ‘Significant Tightening’ Needed
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-04-27T10:58:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/vestas-appoints-andresen-as-cfo-significant-tightening-needed.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  hired
former Vattenfall AB Chief Financial Officer Dag Gunnar Andresen
to take up the same role at the world’s biggest turbine maker
after the predecessor quit amid worse-than-expected losses.  “I am of course aware that there is a need for significant
tightening in the company in order to increase the profitability
again,” Andresen, 50, said in a statement today from Vestas.  He will take up the job on about Aug. 1, Aarhus, Denmark-
based Vestas said. That’s almost half a year after Henrik Norremark resigned as Vestas posted a 2011 loss four times wider
than analyst forecasts. First-quarter results are due on May 2.  Vestas plans to recover from losses with a restructuring
plan announced Jan. 12 that cut 2,335 workers and halted output
to save 150 million euros ($200 million) by the end of the year.
The company had released profit warnings in October and January,
citing production delays at a generator factory and higher-than-
expected costs developing its V112 turbine.  “This could mark a turning point for the business and a
focus towards restoring confidence in their stated strategy,”
Rupesh Madlani, an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in  London , said
today of the appointment in a note to investors.  Andresen will probably focus on cutting manufacturing costs
for the V112, reducing fixed costs before interest and tax to
“high single digit or low double-digit” margins, reviewing
 capital spending  and improving  investor relations , he said.  There may also be cost cuts in the U.S., where wind energy
incentives expire in December, Madlani said.  Nordea Bank  Andresen served as CFO at Vattenfall, the Nordic region’s
largest utility, for three years through last October. In August
2010, he took temporary  leave of absence  from the utility after
being accused of drunk driving. Before serving at Vattenfall,
Andresen held positions at Nordea Bank AB, Den Norske Bank ASA
and the Nordic Investment Bank, according to Vestas.  “Vestas needs exactly the background that Dag Andresen
brings along,” Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  said in the
statement. “Not only the financial management skills, but
certainly also his major experience in managing the contact to
the stock market as well as the financial markets.”  Vestas advanced as much as 2.8 percent and was down 0.5
percent at 51.10 kroner by 12:40 p.m. in Copenhagen trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 