-- Vivus Pill Promising Faster-Than Viagra Erection Approved
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-04-27T20:18:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/vivus-pill-promising-faster-than-viagra-erection-approved.html
A  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  pill that is supposed
to provide erections within 15 minutes, about half the time or
less than  Pfizer (PFE)  Inc.’s Viagra, won U.S. regulatory approval.  The  Food and Drug Administration  today cleared the erectile
dysfunction treatment, called Stendra, the agency said in a
statement. Erectile dysfunction is the inability to get or keep
an erection firm enough for sexual intercourse.  The drug, known chemically as avanafil, is the sole product
on the market for  Mountain View , California-based Vivus, which
is seeking a partner to sell the medicine in the U.S. New York-
based Pfizer’s Viagra, the top-selling erectile dysfunction pill
with $2 billion in sales last year,  works  in 30 minutes to an
hour, according to the drug’s website.  “I do think it’s a differentiated product,” said  Michael King , an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw LLC in New York. Unlike
competitors such as  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Cialis, Vivus’s drug
features “rapid onset; rapid off.”  Avanafil may have $68 million in sales next year, according
to the  average estimate  of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
Revenue may peak at $459 million in 2017, King said.  Sales may be slowed at first by Vivus’s capacity to market
the drug. The company is discussing deals with potential
partners to sell the medicine, Vivus said today in a statement.  Obesity Drug  In addition to avanafil, Vivus is awaiting a July 17 FDA
decision on Qnexa, which potentially would be the first obesity
pill approved in 13 years.  The erectile dysfunction drug also will soon face generic
competition. Patents for Cialis and Levitra expire in 2016 and
2018, respectively, and generic Viagra is expected to be
available in 2019, King said.  Vivus “will be rolling a rock up a hill on the generic
side,” King said today in a telephone interview.  The  National Institutes of Health  estimates that erectile
dysfunction affects as many as 30 million men in the U.S.  “This approval expands the available treatment options to
men experiencing erectile dysfunction, and enables patients, in
consultation with their doctor, to choose the most appropriate
treatment for their needs,” Victoria Kusiak, deputy director of
the Office of Drug Evaluation III in the FDA’s Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, said in the statement.  Vivus  gained  3 percent to $25.15 at the close of  New York 
trading. The shares have more than doubled this year.  Side Effects  Stendra in some rare cases may cause color vision changes
and sudden loss of vision in one or both eyes, according to the
FDA. The most common side effects are headache, redness of the
face, nasal congestion, cold-like symptoms and back pain. The
drug also shouldn’t be used by men who take nitrates, which are
used to treat chest pain, because the combination may cause a
sudden drop in  blood pressure , the agency said.  The pill’s side effects are similar to other erectile
dysfunction drugs on the market, Barbara Troupin, vice president
of medical affairs for Vivus, said last month at a conference.  Vivus made the Muse penile suppository before selling the
rights in November 2010 to  Meda AB (MEDAA) , a specialty pharmaceutical
company in Solna,  Sweden , for about $23.5 million.  Vivus is competing with  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA)  and
 Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX)  to bring the first weight-loss drug
to market since Roche Holding AG’s Xenical in 1999. FDA advisers
voted Feb. 22 in favor of Vivus’s Qnexa, while raising concerns
that the drug may potentially contribute to heart risks and
 birth defects .  The company submitted earlier this month a risk evaluation
and mitigation strategy in an effort to win approval for the
obesity drug.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  