-- Watsa, Who Models Buffett, Sees Housing Bubble: Corporate Canada
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/watsa-who-models-buffett-sees-housing-bubble-corporate-canada.html
Prem Watsa, the Canadian investor
who predicted the downfall of U.S. banks tied to real estate,
now sees more opportunity in the U.S. housing market than in
Canada.  “When you see all these towers going up in Toronto, it
feels like it’s going too far,” said Watsa. Our approach “is
always to be away from where speculation takes place.”  Watsa, chief executive officer of  Fairfax Financial
Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , echoed comments made by Finance Minister  Jim
Flaherty  that Canada’s housing market has become overvalued as
consumers add to record debt levels.  House prices  in markets
such as Toronto and Vancouver have almost tripled over the past
decade.  “I just know that whenever you have a bubble, most people
need to think that it’s going up,” Watsa, 61, told reporters
after Fairfax’s annual meeting in Toronto yesterday. “The real
estate housing market in the U.S. -- 2003, 2004, 2005 --
everybody thought it was going up.”  Low vacancies and increasing demand are prompting
developers to build almost 9 million square feet of  office space 
in Canada, the most since the first quarter of 2010, according
to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   Gerald McCaughey, chief executive officer of Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce said yesterday the high level of
homebuilding could create a stockpile, leading to a correction.  “You can see that, in a number of cities in Canada, you
have unprecedented levels of construction activity, particularly
around residential and particularly in the area of condo
construction.”  Prefers Stocks  Watsa founded Fairfax in 1985, modeling his management
style after billionaire value investor  Warren Buffett , investing
in the assets of out-of-favor securities. Profit before one-time
items reached a record $1.69 billion in 2008 as the company
recorded investment gains on credit-default swaps on U.S. banks
and insurers. The swaps became more valuable as the subprime
mortgage market collapsed and banks began to fall.  The native of Hyderabad,  India  wrote in a 2003  annual
report  to shareholders he was concerned “about the risks in
asset-backed bonds, particularly bonds that are backed by  home
equity loans , automobile loans or credit card debt.”  During a three-hour meeting at Roy Thomson Hall in which he
answered questions from dozens of investors, Watsa said he
prefers stocks over bonds in the “short-term.”  He also favors “good companies” that have the potential
to double in value, such as  Wells Fargo & Co ., Johnson & Johnson
and U.S. Bancorp. Watsa said Fairfax, with about $24 billion in
investments, plans to hold those companies for five to 10 years.  The Toronto-based insurer more than doubled its stake in
BlackBerry maker  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  in January to 26.85
million shares. RIM has fallen 90 percent since its mid-2008
peak as the company loses market share for its products to Apple
Inc. and Google Inc.  RIM Turnaround  Watsa was named a director of the Waterloo, Ontario company
in January as part of a management shakeup that included the
replacement of former co-Chief Executive Officers  Jim Balsillie 
and  Mike Lazaridis  and the naming of Thorsten Heins as CEO.
Fairfax is the third-largest investor in RIM.  Watsa, who has known Lazaridis for “years,” said he’s
confident RIM will turn around its fortunes over the next three
years to five years.  “All you can do as a member of the board is to let them
focus on the long-term, don’t second guess the management,”
said Watsa. “In Thorsten Heins, they’ve got terrific
management.”  While Watsa said there is “always a possibility” that RIM
might collapse, as did Nortel Networks Corp., the Canadian
phone-equipment maker, he said RIM is in much better health.  “Different set of circumstances,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  