-- Wells Fargo to Buy Merlin Securities Prime Brokerage
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-04-27T13:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/wells-fargo-to-buy-merlin-securities-prime-brokerage.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the most
valuable U.S. bank, agreed to buy Merlin Securities LLC,
a prime brokerage that serves  hedge funds  and other clients
with as much as $2 billion in assets.  The purchase is Wells Fargo’s first foray into prime
brokerage services and the bank will use the business as a
foundation to expand, said Christopher Bartlett, head of equity
sales and trading at the San Francisco-based lender. Prime 
brokerage includes services such as lending, clearing trades and
record-keeping that help hedge-fund managers run their firms.
Bartlett, who spoke in an interview, and a company statement
issued today didn’t disclose terms.  “There is a window of opportunity that exists today
because of the macro landscape, some of the attrition on the
street and some of the regulatory changes that are coming,”
Bartlett said. “This is another example of our commitment to
the  capital-markets  business.”  Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 58, is expanding Wells
Fargo’s offerings for hedge funds and beefing up the equities
trading business housed within the securities unit. The moves
are part of a plan to bolster the investment bank it acquired
when Wells Fargo rescued Wachovia Corp. during the 2008
financial crisis.  The latest deal gives Wells Fargo Merlin’s open-
architecture technology, which allows clients to aggregate their
prime brokerage accounts in one place, as well as custody and
clearing services and operational support, according to the
statement. The business will be part of the securities unit, run
by John Shrewsberry.  Managing Partners  Merlin has about 500 clients including hedge funds, family
offices and registered investment advisers and about 100
employees in offices in New York,  San Francisco  and Toronto.
Managing partners Stephan Vermut and Aaron Vermut will join
Wells Fargo, according to the statement.  Merlin clients, who currently have access to the custody
services of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
now will have Wells Fargo as another option with a strong  credit
rating , Bartlett said. Wells Fargo is rated A2 by Moody’s
Investors Service and AA-minus by  Fitch Ratings .  In September, Wells Fargo agreed to purchase LaCrosse
Global Fund Services, a hedge-fund administration and service
provider. Wells Fargo has been looking to acquire or build a
prime brokerage since at least December, Vivek Juneja, a
JPMorgan analyst, wrote in a Dec. 14 report. Executives wanted
the business to add heft to its cash equities trading
operations, Juneja wrote after meeting with management.  Couldn’t ‘Care Less’  Stumpf and his predecessor Dick Kovacevich built Wells
Fargo into the fourth-largest U.S. bank by assets focusing on
consumers and avoiding riskier trading and underwriting that
felled some of the nation’s biggest investment banks. Stumpf
told investors in January he couldn’t “care less” how his firm
fares in the ranks of  investment banking  and capital markets,
preferring to view such services as just another product to sell
to business customers if they need it.  Prime brokerage has been considered attractive for lenders
looking to do more for hedge-fund clients. JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  said Bear Stearns Cos.’s prime brokerage was one of the
biggest attractions leading him to purchase the firm in 2008.
Bear Stearns had been offering its custody business to hedge
funds since 1997.  Bank of America  BNP Paribas SA,  France ’s biggest lender, bought Bank of
America Corp.’s equity prime brokerage during the depths of the
2008 financial crisis. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company said in its 2008  annual report  that it resulted in a
gain of $224 million. Stephan Vermut founded a predecessor to
that business, Montgomery Prime Brokerage, according to Merlin’s
 website .  Global hedge-fund assets climbed to $2.13 trillion in the
first quarter, surpassing the previous $2.04 trillion record set
in the middle of last year, according to Chicago-based Hedge
Fund Research Inc. Merlin, as a so-called mini prime broker,
competes with firms such as BTIG LLC rather than the largest
prime brokers such as Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley, both
based in  New York .  Wells Fargo’s investment-banking revenue climbed 20 percent
in the first quarter from a year earlier, the lender said in a
statement this month. U.S. investment-banking market share
dropped to 4.8 percent from 5.1 percent, according to a slide
 presentation . First-quarter trading revenue rose 5 percent from
a year earlier to $640 million.  “We don’t expect to become a top-tier prime broker
tomorrow,” Bartlett said. “We’ll use a thoughtful, gradual
approach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  