-- Wendel Said to Gauge Potential Interest in Materis Businesses
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-27T14:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/wendel-said-to-gauge-potential-interest-in-materis-businesses.html
Wendel,  France ’s largest publicly
traded investment firm, has begun gauging potential interest in
Materis SA’s aluminates and admixtures units, valued at a
potential 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) combined, four people
with knowledge of the plan said.  Kerneos , which makes cement aluminates, may fetch as much
as 700 million euros and attract private equity buyers because
of its steady  cash flow , said the people, who declined to be
identified because the plans are private. Cement admixtures
maker  Chryso  may be valued at about 300 million euros and will
likely attract industrial buyers, they said.  Materis, a French building-materials maker, is planning to
sell one out its four divisions as it negotiates an extension of
debt maturities. Wendel, which is based in Paris, bought the
company for about 2 billion euros in 2006, with lenders led by
agent BNP Paribas SA providing about 1.97 billion euros of
loans, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Materis’ other
two divisions make mortars and paints.  Numerous buyers have expressed “strong interest” in each
division, Wendel Chief Executive Officer Frederic Lemoine said
at a conference in Paris last month. One of the divisions will
be sold if an acceptable offer is made, he said.  Competitors in admixtures include Sika SA of Switzerland,
while aluminates may interest  Imerys SA (NK)  and Cie. de Saint-Gobain
SA, said Arnaud Palliez, an analyst at Raymond James in Paris.  “In both cases, I would rather expect interest from
private equity firms,” said Palliez.  As part of the debt extension talks, Wendel and Materis’s
managers are planning to inject 25 million euros of cash to fund
the company’s capital expenditures, and provide as much as 50
million euros in a short term facility within the next year,
according to a person with direct knowledge of the negotiations.
Wendel and Materis’s managers had to inject 45 million euros of
cash in 2009 as part of a first debt restructuring.  A spokeswoman for Wendel declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  