-- Winchester Bullet Sales to Gain as U.S. Elections Near
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-27T20:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/winchester-bullet-sales-to-gain-as-u-s-elections-near.html
Olin Corp. (OLN) , the maker of Winchester
bullets for rifles and handguns, expects ammunition demand will
continue to increase ahead of the U.S. presidential elections in
November.  First-quarter commercial sales in the Winchester division
rose about 13 percent on higher volumes and prices, Clayton,
Missouri-based Olin said today in a statement. Commercial demand
should keep climbing at least through October, Olin Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer Joseph D. Rupp said.  “There’s been a pickup which may be related to the
election and also is related to just an undercurrent of interest
in personal defense that just continues to be there,” he said
on Olin’s first-quarter earnings conference call.  Winchester’s sale are rising ahead of the Nov. 6 election
because of “fear” that President  Barack Obama  will win a
second term and restrict ammunition sales, said Don Carson, a
New York-based analyst at Susquehanna Financial Group.  “Obama is reportedly referred to as ‘salesman of the year’
in the firearms and ammunition industry as gun-rights supporters
stock up on supplies ahead of a possible more restrictive
environment,” Carson, who recommends holding Olin shares, said
today in a report.  Olin plans to raise ammunition prices by as much as 6
percent on June 1, Rupp said.  First-quarter profit excluding a restructuring charge was
50 cents a share, beating the 42-cent average of eight analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Winchester ammunition accounted
for 29 percent of sales in the quarter, with chlorine and
caustic soda making up the remainder.  Olin fell 1.9 percent to $21.59 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  