-- World Billionaires Gain $5 Billion, Led by Amazon’s Bezos
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C o f f e y
-- 2012-04-27T23:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/world-billionaires-gain-5-billion-led-by-amazon-s-bezos.html
Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Jeff Bezos  saw his fortune rise by $2.72 billion
yesterday to $21.2 billion, highlighting a week in which the
world’s 40 richest people added $5.4 billion to their collective
wealth.  Bezos’s big day came as Amazon surged 16 percent to close
at $226.85 in New York. Strong demand for the Kindle tablet
helped the Seattle-based company beat analysts’ estimates in its
latest earnings report.  Along with Bezos, the 24th-richest person on the planet, 25
other billionaires saw their net worth rise this week amid a
rally in global stocks, according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index. The assets of the 40 richest individuals now stand at
$1.06 trillion.  “Most of these billionaires got super-wealthy because they
had one big position, one big activity they were a majority
owner of, that did amazingly well,” said Brian Barish,
president and chief investment officer of Cambiar Investors LLC,
a Denver-based institutional equities manager with $8 billion
under management. “They are not just portfolio investors, they
have an influence on the outcome of things as far as their stock
is concerned.”  Several billionaires with retail-derived fortunes saw their
net worth slip. Four heirs of  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  founder Sam
Walton lost a combined $4.8 billion this week as reports of
bribe allegations at  Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB  lopped 5.5 percent
off its American counterpart and majority owner. Walton children
Jim C. Walton, Samuel Robson Walton and Alice L. Walton, along
with Christy R. Walton, the widow of Walton’s second son, are
collectively worth $93.6 billion.  H&M’s Miss  Stefan Persson, the 64-year-old Swedish retailing titan,
lost $671 million this week as  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  slipped
because of increasingly negative analyst outlooks after the
company missed earnings estimates last month. Of 34 analyst
recommendations compiled by Bloomberg, 12 are sells, including
this week’s underperform rating issued by Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. Persson owns 38 percent of H&M, Europe’s second-biggest
clothing retailer, and is ranked 16th with a net worth of $23.3
billion.  Carlos Slim remains the richest person in the world as
global stock markets added $3.7 billion to his net worth, which
stands at $73 billion. Slim, 72, controls the largest mobile-
phone company in the Americas,  America Movil SAB. (AMXL)  Strength in
its Brazilian business boosted profit 38 percent in the first
quarter, the company said. The results sent shares up 2.2
percent yesterday to 16.98 pesos in Mexican trading.  Gates Gains  The world’s second-richest man and the wealthiest American,
 Bill Gates , saw his fortune gain $503 million this week even as
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  shares slipped 1.4 percent to $31.98 in New
York. The majority of Gates’s $63.8 billion fortune is held
outside of the company he co-founded. His portfolio benefited
from strength in various smaller holdings, including a $2.3
billion equity stake in  Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB (FMX) , a Latin
American Coca-Cola bottler.  Other significant movers include Azim Hasham Premji, 66,
who lost $837 million this week as shares of  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , India’s
third-largest software exporter, tumbled after its latest
quarterly sales projection fell below analyst estimates.
Premji’s net worth is $16.4 billion, placing him 38th in the
rankings.  Google co-founders  Larry Page , 39, and  Sergey Brin , 38,
both gained almost $500 million as investors bid up the
company’s stock on news of new product offerings. They are worth
$19.1 billion and $18.9 billion, respectively, putting them at
29th and 32nd.  Icahn’s $15.7 Billion  Carl Icahn , the 76-year-old investor, rounds out the list
at number 40 with a net worth of $15.7 billion.  The Bloomberg Billionaires Index takes measure of the
world’s wealthiest people based on market and economic changes
and Bloomberg News reporting. Each net worth figure is updated
every business day at 5:30 p.m. in  New York  and listed in U.S.
dollars. Subscribers to the Bloomberg Professional services have
access to billionaire profile pages that provide a transparent
analysis of how each person’s fortune was calculated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Coffey in Boston at 
 bcoffey10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  