-- Worst Stock Slump Since ‘08 on Putin Concerns: Russia
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-04-27T23:06:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/worst-stock-slump-since-08-on-putin-concerns-russia-overnight.html
Russian stocks traded in the U.S.
tumbled for an eighth straight week, the longest losing streak
in almost four years, on concern President-elect  Vladimir Putin 
won’t undertake the changes necessary to reform the economy.  The  Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded
Russian companies listed in the U.S. rose 1.3 percent to 102.78
yesterday, bringing its weekly decline to 0.9 percent. The gauge
last tumbled for eight straight weeks between June and August
2008 as the global credit crisis loomed. Futures expiring in
June on Russia’s dollar-denominated RTS Index rose 1.7 percent
to 154,990 in Moscow trading yesterday.  Putin, who won his third term as president on March 4 after
four years as prime minister will be inaugurated on May 7. He
has already backtracked on a promise by current President  Dmitry Medvedev  -- who will be his premier -- to return to direct
elections for governors, saying on April 11 that he will retain
the right to veto candidates. Russia’s budget relies on oil and
gas revenues for about 50 percent of its revenue.  “People are a little cautious and have an ‘I’ll believe it
when I see it’ kind of approach,” said Ed Kuczma, who helps
manage $35 billion at New York-based Van Eck Associates Corp.,
including shares of  OAO Gazprom (OGZPY) ,  OAO Lukoil (LUKOY)  and  OAO GMK Norilsk
Nickel. (NILSY)  “There are political question marks and there is a
cyclicality in the Russian economy, which is driven by energy
and commodities. There are a lot of opportunities for reforms.”  Yandex NV (YNDX) , the country’s most-used Internet search engine,
led declines on the Russia-US gauge this week along with  OAO
Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of Russia’s gas-export monopoly, and
OAO RusHydro, the largest hydropower producer.  Yandex Profit  Yandex rose 5.6 percent in New York yesterday, the most
this month, to $24.69, trimming this week’s decline to 7.4
percent. The Nasdaq-traded stock fell for the third time in four
weeks, reducing this year’s gain to 25 percent. The company
reported first-quarter net income of 1.26 billion rubles ($43
million) on April 26, below the  median  of four analysts’
estimates for 1.43 billion rubles.  American depositary receipts of Gazprom Neft added 2.1
percent to $24.31 yesterday, paring this week’s drop to 5.4
percent, as  oil prices  climbed.  Crude for June delivery climbed 0.4 percent to $104.93 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since April 2. Futures gained 1.8 percent in the
week. Brent oil for June settlement was little changed at
$119.83 on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange
yesterday.  Oil to Drop  Oil may decline next week after economic confidence in the
euro region fell and more Americans than estimated filed
applications for  unemployment benefits , a Bloomberg survey
showed. Sixteen of 37 analysts, or 43 percent, forecast oil will
decline through May 4.  Urals crude , Russia’s main export blend, rose 0.2 percent
to $117.36 yesterday, gaining 1.5 percent from last week, the
first weekly advance in seven weeks.  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , a U.S.-traded fund that
holds Russian shares, rose 0.5 percent to $29.89 yesterday, the
highest level since April 20. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in the index futures, fell 2.6 percent
to 29.57 points in U.S. trading.  RusHydro ADRs fell for the first week in three, declining
4.1 percent to $3.50. The stock rose 1.2 percent yesterday in
New York. The Moscow-based company said on April 26 that 2011
net income more than tripled to 31.4 billion rubles.  Usmanov and Norilsk  OAO GMK  Norilsk Nickel , world’s biggest producer of nickel
and palladium, rose 2.2 percent to $17.72 in the U.S. yesterday,
the highest price in a week. Billionaire Alisher Usmanov, who
controls OAO Metalloinvest, said he is adding to the iron-ore
producer’s shares in Norilsk in an interview with Rossiya-24
state television.  RusHydro (HYDR)  traded for 8.5 times estimated earnings yesterday,
compared with a valuation of 10.5 times for Light SA, a
Brazilian power utility, data compiled by Bloomberg show. OAO
Surgutneftegas a Russian oil producer, trades for 16.4 times
estimated earnings, while  Brazil ’s  OGX Petroleo e Gas
Participacoes SA ’s has a multiple of 165, the data show.  “Russian companies, particularly energy companies, are
inexpensive compared with their emerging markets peers. I expect
the market to grow,”  Ivan Mazalov , director of Prosperity
Capital Management, which manages about $4 billion in assets,
including Surgut shares, said by phone from  London  on April 26.  Reducing Energy  Russia’s new government lineup is due to be announced after
Putin’s inauguration. The former KGB officer, who was president
from 2000 to 2008 before having to step down because of  term
limits , pledged during his campaign to boost pensions and
support for small business. He also vowed to reverse
“repressive” state policies and reduce government holdings in
major non-commodity companies.  Under an Economy Ministry development proposal submitted to
the government for approval, the oil and gas industry would make
up about 10 percent of the country’s gross domestic product by
2030, from 20 percent currently.  Industries such as education, communications and
information technology would represent about 20 percent to 22
percent of all exports, from about 11 percent now, Deputy
Economy Minister  Andrei Klepach  said in Moscow on April 13.  “Putin has been dominating the Russian political landscape
for the past more than 10 years and there is a great opportunity
for him to extend reforms further,’” Van Eck’s Kuczma said.
“There is the need to take out that cyclicality of Russian
economy, reduce its dependence on oil and commodities, and move
towards developing value-added sectors of the economy, such as
tech sector, financial services and real estate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  