-- TMX Group Rises on Signs Competition Concerns Easing
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-04-27T20:02:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/tmx-group-rises-on-signs-competition-concerns-easing.html
TMX Group Inc. (X) , the Canadian
exchange owner facing a C$3.73 billion ($3.8 billion) takeover
by a group of Canadian banks and pension funds, rallied after an
antitrust regulator said its “serious concerns” on the sale
may be mitigated by proposed rules governing the bourse.  Canada’s Competition Bureau said today it “provided views
and input” to the Ontario Securities Commission on the
potential impact of a TMX takeover by Maple Group Acquisition
Corp. Competition Bureau concerns may be eased by rules set by
the provincial regulator governing the operation of an exchange.  “It is possible that the OSC’s recognition orders could
materially change the regulatory environment such that, if
enforced, our serious concerns may be substantially mitigated,”
the Competition Bureau said in an e-mail statement. Maple
earlier issued a statement on the regulator’s position.  TMX shares  rose  4.6 percent to C$44.70 in Toronto for the
biggest gain in 11 months.  Maple, whose 13 members include  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ,
 Manulife Financial Corp (MFC)  and  Ontario Teachers’ Pension Plan , said
there’s “no assurance” that regulatory approvals can be
obtained.  Maple has sought to buy TMX since May 13, after the
Toronto-based company had already agreed to a friendly
combination with the London Stock Exchange Group Plc. The LSE
deal fell apart in June after failing to get enough shareholder
support.  Talks to Extend  TMX began negotiations a month later and by Oct. 30 reached
an agreement that expires April 30. Maple has been in talks to
extend the agreement.  Maple also has an April 30 deadline on its tender offer to
buy between 70 percent and 80 percent of TMX shares. That offer
has been extended six times, as the group awaits approvals.
Maple ultimately plans to buy 100 percent of TMX and integrate
it with the Canadian Depository for Securities Ltd. clearing
house and Alpha Group, a bank-owned company whose Alpha Exchange
competes with TMX.  The Competition Bureau said Nov. 29 that it had “serious
concerns” about the plan in connection with equities trading
and clearing settlement.  Quebec’s financial markets authority said March 15 that it
intends to approve the proposed takeover. The Ontario Securities
Commission will publish draft terms and conditions for a 30-day
public comment period before making a final decision, Maple
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  