-- Yahoo Accuses Facebook of Retaliation Over Patent Lawsuit
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-04-27T21:14:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/yahoo-accuses-facebook-of-retaliation-over-patent-lawsuit-2-.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  accused  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
of retaliating against a patent-infringement lawsuit by buying
patents that the social networking site used as the basis for
its countersuit against the Web portal company.  Facebook bought the patents after it was sued by Yahoo in
March and then countersued over the newly acquired technologies
as payback for the original lawsuit, Yahoo said in a filing
today in federal court in  San Jose ,  California .  Of the 10 patents at issue in Facebook’s counterclaims,
“several” were purchased from patent licensing or holding
companies after Yahoo’s complaint was filed and some were
“tainted,” the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in the
filing. A federal judge should invalidate the Facebook patents
and dismiss the company’s counterclaims, Yahoo said.  “Many, if not all, of these patents were acquired by
Facebook for purposes of retaliation against Yahoo! in this
case,” said the owner of the largest U.S. Web portal.  Some of the patents are enforceable because they were
doctored and failed to name all inventors, Yahoo said.  Jonathan Thaw, a spokesman for Menlo Park,  California-based
Facebook , said the company will continue to defend itself
vigorously.  “We remain perplexed by Yahoo’s erratic actions,” Thaw
said in an e-mail.  Facebook, operator of the biggest social-networking site,
accused Yahoo of infringing 10 patents through its home page and
Flickr photo-sharing service and in ads displayed throughout its
site. The claims were made to counter patent-infringement
allegations Yahoo filed March 12 against Facebook.  Facebook didn’t invent technologies claimed in eight
patents it sued over, which it bought from patent holding
companies or patent aggregators, Yahoo’s lawyers said in today’s
filing.  The case is Yahoo! Inc. v. Facebook, 12-cv-01212, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Michael Hytha
at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  