-- LyondellBasell Kickback Defendants Get Four, Five Years
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-27T21:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-27/lyondellbasell-kickback-defendants-get-four-five-years-1-.html
Two oil traders were sentenced to
four and five years in prison for illegally paying more than
$20 million to a  LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB)  executive in
return for oil-tanker charters to the company’s Houston
refinery.  U.S. District Judge Sim Lake in Houston imposed a four-year
sentence today on Bernard Langley, 54, of the U.K. Clyde
Meltzer, 66, of Houston and Livingston,  New Jersey , was given a
five-year sentence.  They pleaded guilty last year to paying kickbacks into
Swiss bank accounts controlled by LyondellBasell’s Jonathan
Barnes, a shipping manager, from 2007 to 2009. Langley and
Meltzer were also sentenced to three years of supervised
release.  Barnes agreed to pay above-market shipping rates to tanker
companies controlled by the men to transport Venezuelan  crude
oil  to Houston, in exchange for one-third of the profit the
traders received, prosecutors said. Barnes, 56, pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to seven years in January and ordered to pay
restitution of $82 million to the Rotterdam-based  company .  Langley, who, along with Meltzer, was shackled in the
courtroom, apologized to the judge and the company, saying he
had never been in trouble until he got involved in the scheme.  “During that time, right and wrong in my personal life
became very blurred,” Langley said.  “I just want to apologize to the court and to my family
and friends,” Meltzer said in court. “I should never have done
the things I did, and I take full responsibility for them.”  Cars, Jewelry  Langley, Meltzer and Barnes agreed to forfeit more than
$57.3 million in assets, including cash from bank accounts in
Switzerland and  Monaco , luxury and classic cars, jewelry, real
estate in  Texas  and  Florida , and an investment in a Houston
sports bar, according to court papers. Among the items already
seized by the government were a 1957 Cadillac once owned by
 Frank Sinatra  and more than $1.4 million in jewelry surrendered
by Meltzer’s wife.  Langley and Meltzer each faced as much as 20 years in
prison. The two men have been in federal custody since December
2010, when they were arrested in Houston after a recorded
meeting with Barnes.  The judge said he agreed to lesser sentences recommended by
the government for both men and refused an additional clemency
request by Meltzer’s lawyer in consideration of his age.  ‘Serious Nature’  “That would overlook the serious nature of this crime,”
Lake said.  He read from LyondellBasell’s letter that pointed out the
thefts came in large part during a period when the company’s
U.S. subsidiaries were in bankruptcy and employees were losing
jobs and benefits.  The defendants’ “lavish lifestyles,” funded with kickback
proceeds, added “insult to that substantial injury,” the judge
said.  “The kickback scheme was uncovered during an internal
audit, which raised questions about certain marine chartering
costs which appeared to deviate from the industry norm,”  David
Harpole , LyondellBasell’s Houston spokesman, said in an e-mail.  When an internal investigation pointed to kickbacks, the
company “took immediate steps to address the matter,”
including firing Barnes and referring the matter to the  Justice
Department , Harpole said.  A fourth defendant, Alireza Etessami, 37, a Venezuelan, is
under modified home detention in  California  on $2 million bail
as he awaits trial in June.  Three other Venezuelan oil traders charged in the scheme
are fugitives in  South America , according to prosecutors.  The case is U.S. v. Barnes, 4:10-cr-0787, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 