-- ‘Matilda’s’ Payday Prospects Made Angels Give Up Billing
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2013-03-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/-matilda-s-payday-prospects-made-angels-give-up-billing.html
As the title character of
Broadway’s “ Matilda ” prepares hair dye to exact revenge on her
nasty dad and his pompadour, she sings in a tribute to
naughtiness: “Just because you find that life’s not fair it/
Doesn’t mean you just have to grin and bear it.”  The precocious schoolgirl has the telekinetic ability to
manipulate chalk on a distant blackboard. Perhaps more
important, she sold more than $12 million worth of tickets ahead
of her show’s April 11 opening night.  A horde of investors grinned through unusually tough terms
dictated by the lead producer, the  Royal Shakespeare Co ., for a
stake in the musical, which is in previews at the Shubert
Theatre. It’s based on the popular Roald Dahl story of the same
name.  “There were people hanging from tree limbs trying to get
into it,” said  Jerry Frankel , who invested after being wowed by
“Matilda” in  London , where it’s been playing to full houses
since November 2011. “We’re all grown-ups. If you don’t want to
get in you don’t have to get in.”  Backers are forgoing customary perks and profit-sharing
terms for a piece of what resembles as close to a sure thing as
Broadway offers.  Tiny Print  The RSC and its American co-producer, Dodger Theatricals,
raised $16 million without dispensing producer credits to its
top investors. So instead of trading above-the-title credit for
cash -- standard practice these days, making dozens of people
eligible for a  Tony Award  if the show wins for best musical  --
“Matilda” lists only two producers. The key investors are
cited in the playbill in small print below the cast and
production team.  The investors stand to earn just 34 percent of the show’s
profits after getting their money-back-plus-50-percent,
according to a partnership agreement. The papers were obtained
from the office of  New York  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman
through the state’s Freedom of Information Law.  Backers of less-heralded productions usually share profits
of 45 percent or more.  “If you have a hot show, you have a lot more freedom to
structure it in a way that will benefit the producing team,”
said  Jason Baruch , a partner with the entertainment law firm
 Sendroff & Baruch .  Shakespeare Lives  RSC Executive Director Catherine Mallyon said in an e-mail
that “profits generated by our activities are returned to
support our charitable purposes to connect people with
Shakespeare and live theatre.”  Mallyon declined to comment further. A spokesman for the
show said the production team had no comment.  The show has been in the works since December 2008, when
director  Matthew Warchus  (“God of Carnage”) approached  Tim
Minchin , an Australian performer and composer, about writing 
music and lyrics for an adaptation of the 1988 bestseller, 
according to Minchin’s  website . Minchin finished a draft in 
mid-2009 and it had its premiere at Stratford-upon-Avon in 2010 
with Dennis Kelly’s libretto.  The RSC self-produced it on the  West End , where it won a
record seven Olivier Awards and recouped its roughly $4 million
production costs in six months.  For the inevitable New York transfer, the RSC chose to
partner with the the Dodgers, the partnership behind the global
blockbuster “ Jersey Boys .”  $25,000 Minimum  The Broadway-bound production accepted minimum stakes of
$25,000, according to an October  filing  with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission. Its fixed weekly expenses are
relatively low at $584,452 plus 7 percent of grosses payable to
the landlord, the Shubert Organization, exclusive of other
theater expenses.  Weekly ticket sales potential at the 1,427-seat Shubert is
about $1.1 million, although sales of “premium” seats starting
at $194 may boost that figure considerably.  If the show plays to almost full houses, it can recoup
$14.4 million of projected production costs in a little more
than a year.  The RSC gets a share of box office or weekly operating
profits, and after investors recoup production expenses it will
earn 15 percent of net profits “off the top.” The going rate
for large nonprofits that develop work for Broadway is about 10
percent. The RSC also shares with the Dodgers and investors the
final pool of profits -- net adjusted profits -- once authors
and the director receive their cut.  Baruch, the lawyer, reviewed the Broadway papers for
clients who were considering investing.  High Fees  “I told them the fees were high and this is the most
highly anticipated musical of the season and I thought it would
do well,” he said.  Participants in the investing pools that “Matilda”
spawned will take a further hit on returns. Gail Bryan, a West
Coast theater patron, formed a partnership of investors to raise
as much as $900,000 for the show. She’s eventually entitled to
10 percent of her partnership’s profits plus a $9,000-a-year
management fee, according to a copy of the agreement.  “People who invested through us wouldn’t have been able to
get into the show otherwise,” Bryan said, adding that she
doesn’t plan to take any fees until the paperwork becomes
burdensome. “If you look at a venture-capital deal, the
management fees are much higher than what we’ve allowed for.”  No Seats  Competition for opening-night seats is as heated as the
battle for stakes. To make room for more than 100 RSC board
members, supporters, U.K. attaches “and the like,” plus
investors and press, talent agents aren’t invited, according to
an e-mail from the Dodgers and RSC obtained by Bloomberg. The
same goes for managers and lawyers.  Agents endured a six-month-plus audition process with their
clients and see it as a snub, according to one who spoke on
condition of anonymity.  The RSC and Dodgers wrote: “Unfortunately, the rare and
blessed interest and expectation our little show has generated,
has created collateral damage at a moment like this for
everyone.”  Confident that the moment will pass, producers are already
auditioning potential replacements for the four girls in the
title role.  Muse highlights include  Elin McCoy  on wine and  Richard
Vines  on London dining.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York
at   pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 