-- Adele Meets Match With Jessie Ware, Laura Mvula: Review
-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 2013-03-25T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/adele-meets-match-with-jessie-ware-laura-mvula-review.html
Jessie Ware and Laura Mvula are two
new British soul singers with claims to a place in your record
collection and life.  The two are U.S.-bound next month after touring the U.K.
together. It was a treat for all who attended.  Both  Ware  and Mvula have released debut albums and both are
receiving rapturous notices. It is true that, in the post-Amy- Winehouse-and-Adele age, any British woman with a decent voice
and soulful sound can trigger paroxysms of uncritical adulation.  For Ware and Mvula, the praise is as warranted as the
comparison to warbling compatriots is spurious.  Ware’s debut album “Devotion” mixes Sade’s impeccable
soul with cutting-edge electronic sounds. It will be released in
the U.S. in April with an appearance from rapper  A$AP Rocky .  Ware is like a Bugatti cruising an upmarket corniche: She
delivers power with smoothness. Her voice is controlled even
when suggesting torrid ecstasy in songs such as “Wildest
Moments.”  Ware dresses in black heels and a long bronze skirt, her
black hair scrapped back to emphasize large hoop earrings. Her
composure doesn’t extend between songs. As soon as the music
stops, Ware gabbles away as if the audience were all her best
friends, three drinks into a gossipy catch-up at a local bar.  Sweet Talk  At one show, she chides her mother for leaving the VIP
seats and joining the main crowd, cackles about her boyfriend’s
hair loss (he quickly gets an apology) and announces that a song
called “Sweet Talk” was written “after a curry in Bristol.”  The live concert has added AOR muscle compared to the
electronic finesse of the record. A drummer and bass player
generate sexy grooves. Sly guitar licks tease with the sound of
 Hall and Oates . A multitude of samples and sounds are triggered
from multi buttoned gadgets. The near-perfect single
“Valentine” shimmers with emotional delicacy.  Laura Mvula’s music is more in keeping with soul tradition.
The 25-year-old plays with a six-piece band, including a violin,
cello and harp, to create a golden warmth.  Her voice has the glow of  Terry Callier  and is strong
enough to declaim her winding melodies. Her shaved head is
covered with a long olive-green drape, reminiscent of singer
Erykah Badu.  Such nominally retro stylings belie the innovative song-
writing. Bewitching chord sequences abound. Mvula, a former
teacher, is influenced by Ravel and gained a degree in
composition from the U.K.’s  Birmingham Conservatoire .  While her songs occasionally veer from the pop-obvious into
more convoluted pastures, Mvula never lets her studied
techniques restrict her easily soulful heart. Complex vocal
harmonies are sprinkled with a hint of Swingle Singers levity.  The single “Sing It to the Moon” manages to be a pop
trifle and a masterpiece of subtlety, grace and invention.  Rating: Both ****.  Ware plays shows in continental  Europe , including Berlin,
Brussels and Paris this month. On April 3, she opens her U.S.
tour at the Music Hall of Williamsburg,  Brooklyn , New York.
Information:  http://jessieware.com/live/   Mvula will be playing a clutch of U.S. dates later in April
including New York’s Mercury Lounge on April 23. Information:
 http://www.lauramvula.com/   (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on food,  Jorg von
Uthmann  on Paris arts, Patrick Cole on  charity  and  Elin McCoy  on
wine.  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 