-- Ag Growth CEO Says Russia Will Fuel Rebound
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/ag-growth-ceo-says-russia-will-fuel-rebound.html
Ag Growth International Inc. (AFN) , the
worst performing  farm equipment  stock among its North American
peers, says it will rebound this year by tapping Russian demand
for modern grain storage.  Ag Growth, which sells silos and conveyor belts and other
agriculture machinery to companies including  Archer-Daniels-
Midland Co. (ADM) ,  fell  19 percent in the past 12 months, the most
among six competitors, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “A lot of the progressive corporate farms in the former
 Soviet Union  are looking to  North America  for proper grain
storage because existing storage is antiquated,” Chief
Executive Officer Gary Anderson, 58, said in a phone interview
from his office in Winnipeg, Manitoba. “We want to provide
it.”  Ag Growth is expanding outside the U.S. and  Canada , which
make up about 80 percent of the company’s business, after the
worst drought since the 1930s in the U.S. cut demand for
equipment last year, sending Ag Growth’s earnings per share to
the lowest since 2006. Anderson said he will increase revenue by
expanding marketing in former Soviet Union countries including
Russia, which is forecast to raise grain production about 30
percent this year.  The company is more exposed than some of its competitors to
the weather because it sells only farm equipment while companies
such as  Toro Co. (TTC)  and  Deere & Co. (DE)  sell to other industries
including landscaping and construction.  International Sales  Ag Growth reported sales of C$314.6 million ($307.6
million) last year, up 4.5 percent from 2011. That was the
slowest since 2005, its first full year since its initial public
offering in 2004, as “demand for grain handling equipment,
particularly higher margin portable equipment, decreased
substantially,” the company said in a statement. Earnings
dropped 30 percent to C$1.37 a share from a year ago.  International sales, which have risen 240 percent in the
past three years compared with a 17 percent rise in the U.S,
will replace Canada as the company’s second-largest market next
year, Anderson said. Eastern  Europe  will comprise 80 percent of
sales to foreign markets.  Anderson, who co-founded the company in 1996, plans to open
an office in  Russia  after 2014. Six of the marketing staff of 25
to 30 people currently spend more than half the year in eastern
Europe though none are based there, he said.  Ag Growth may expand further into eastern Europe with an
acquisition, possibly in  Turkey  or the Ukraine after picking up
dozens of closely held companies since its IPO, Anderson said.
Future clip-on acquisitions will be in the range of C$20 million
and “geographically driven to give us a more global
footprint,” he said. Russia is off the table because it’s
“impossible” to buy a company there, he said.  Global Demand  “We remain optimistic on Ag Growth’s medium- to longer-
term growth prospects given our expectations of robust global
demand for grain handling and storage equipment,” Robert Winslow, analyst at National Bank Financial, said in a March 14
note to clients. There is “continued strong demand in the
Former Soviet Union region” and “the negative effects of the
U.S. corn belt drought” are not expected again this year, he
said.  Ag Growth rose 2.3 percent on March 22 to close at C$33.49
in Toronto, for a market value of C$420 million.  Laurentian Bank Securities upgraded the stock to buy and
National Bank Financial raised it to sector perform, the
equivalent of a hold, on March 15. EVA Dimensions upgraded it to
underweight on March 21. The stock has three buys, six holds and
one sell according to data compiled by Bloomberg, with a 12
month consensus price target of C$34.33.  Ideal Target  Jeff Young , chief investment officer at NexGen Financial
Corp., who manages about C$1 billion, held the stock until June
when the U.S. drought cut the company’s profitability.  To win him back as a shareholder, the company needs to
pursue markets abroad, Young said. “The more international
expansion you get, the less dependent you are on crops or
weather in any particular area,” Young said in a phone
interview from Toronto on March 21. “It makes it a more stable
company.”  Russia is an ideal target for expansion as farmers in the
seventh-largest corn export market look for newer technology to
store and handle grain, according to Spencer Churchill, analyst
at Paradigm Capital Inc., who has a share price target of C$40.  “That’s an area of the world that is lacking in grain
storage infrastructure,” he said in a phone interview from
Toronto. Many producers “leave grain on the concrete, subject
to the rain and spoilage because there’s just not enough
storage.”  Getting Impatient  Investors are getting impatient waiting to see
“significant” growth for the company in the former Soviet
states, said Andrew Hamlin, who manages C$1 billion at  Aston
Hill Financial Inc. (AHF)   “I understand the opportunity that’s there, I just
question how committed they are to really capture this market
share by having a presence in Europe,” when the company doesn’t
yet have an office in Russia or the Ukraine, Hamilton said by
phone from Toronto March 21.  Ag Growth should retain its focus on the U.S. and Canada to
increase its share price, Hamlin said.  To mitigate the risk of a high reliance on weather, the
company may diversify into other agriculture equipment with a
focus on spring seeding activity.  “It’s hard to sleep when you realize what’s going on here
-- it’s been tough,” Anderson said. “We really like the focus
of being an agriculture company only, but there’s ways of
diversifying within agriculture and that’s probably what we’ll
end up pursuing more.”  One of the “beauties of farming is that every spring
optimism returns and they get back into the fields again,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  