-- Air France-KLM Chief Spinetta to Depart, Replaced by Juniac
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-03-25T15:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/air-france-klm-ceo-spinetta-to-leave-in-july-replaced-by-juniac.html
Air France-KLM Group (AF)  Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Cyril Spinetta will step down on July 1,
three months before he’s required to quit, with French unit head
Alexandre de Juniac taking charge of Europe’s largest airline.  Spinetta will exit before his 70th birthday in October,
when company statutes would compel him to depart, because he has
completed his work, he said at a briefing in Paris.  Spinetta initially left Air France-KLM in 2009, only to be
asked to return in 2011 when Pierre-Henri Gourgeon was ousted
amid slumping earnings. The Paris-based company has lost money
for two years and said last month that high fuel prices and a
sluggish economy have the potential to derail a rebound in 2013.  Air France-KLM’s Transform 2015 cost-cutting program also
faces challenges after French pilot union SNPL withdrew its
cooperation and questioned a recent deal with cabin crew. While
the company needs structural changes, financial and accounting
concerns are dictating policy, with little regard for social
considerations or long-term strategy, the union said March 21.  De Juniac, 51, has previously served as chief of staff to
International Monetary Fund Managing Director Christine Lagarde
when she was French finance minister, and also worked as an
adviser to her successor Francois Baroin. Juniac was also head
of the air-systems unit at Thales SA, Europe’s biggest maker of
defense electronics, before joining Air France in 2011.  Bonds Sold  As part of today’s management shuffle, Peter Hartman --
previously CEO of Dutch division KLM -- succeeds Leo van Wijk as
vice chairman of Air France-KLM. The Air France unit’s chief
financial officer, Frederic Gagey, is promoted to CEO.  Spinetta cited this week’s sale of convertible bonds,
together with a bonds offering in December, as indicating that
the company’s restructuring plan is making progress.  Air France-KLM sold 550 million euros ($710 million) of
bonds later convertible into stock, it said today in a
statement. The issue on March 28 will carry a coupon of 2.03
percent and is intended to help finance aircraft purchases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  