-- Allianz Re Sees ‘a Lot of Capacity’ and Stable Prices in April
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-03-25T17:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/allianz-re-sees-a-lot-of-capacity-and-stable-prices-in-april.html
 Allianz Re, the reinsurance arm of
 Allianz SE (ALV) , sees “a lot of capacity” in the market, while it
expects prices to remain stable when premiums are renewed in
April.  “We see a lot of capacity across the board,” Amer Ahmed,
chief executive officer of Allianz Re, said in an interview in
Dublin. “The big renewals in April will be in  Japan  and  Korea 
and the sense we have is rather stable.”  Reinsurers, which help primary insurers shoulder risks in
return for a share of the premiums, accumulated a record $500
billion of capital by the end of 2012, pushing supply by more
than 10 percent, according to a report by Aon Benfield, the
largest reinsurance broker. After last year’s lower losses and
higher investment income, 2013’s prices are expected to remain
unchanged and low interest rates may weigh on earnings, it said.  Allianz Re posted an operating profit of “just over 400
million euros ($514 million)” in 2012, Ahmed said. With low
losses from natural catastrophes, last year was “very
favorable,” while  Hurricane Sandy  was not “significant” for
Allianz Re, he said.  Allianz Re, which gets “a little bit more than” 80
percent of its business from other units of Munich-based
Allianz, began to clean up its third-party reinsurance business
last year to boost profitability.  “As a group we still spend a significant amount of
reinsurance euros outside,” he said. “We still have
opportunities to do more there.”  Currently 40 percent of the business Allianz, Europe’s
biggest insurer, has insured is picked up by Allianz Re, Ahmed
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  