-- Ambow Buyout Bid Scrapped as Solars Fall: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2013-03-25T21:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/ambow-buyout-bid-scrapped-as-solars-fall-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks listed in New York
fell, led by solar companies, while trading in  Ambow Education
Holding Ltd. (AMBO)  was suspended for a second day as a buyout offer
for the education provider was withdrawn.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese equities in the U.S. slipped 0.2 percent to 92.08 as
 Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  and  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  sank more
than 9 percent. Baring Private Equity Asia Ltd. terminated its
March 15 offer for Ambow, saying the resignation of the Beijing-
based tutoring company’s auditors and three directors made it
impossible to proceed with the deal, according to a  letter  from
Baring filed yesterday.  Baring’s withdrawal marks the first failed takeover valued
at at least $50 million of a Chinese company in the U.S. since
August 2011, when Themes Investment Partners terminated a bid
for  China  Natural Gas Inc., data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Ambow is the third Chinese company traded in New York to have a
privatization bid scrapped since 2010. There have been 30 deals
announced in that period, according to the data.  “Clearly people will paint it with a broad brush but I
think Ambow is a special case,” Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at
Oberweis Asset Management Inc., which manages about $700 million
of investments including Chinese stocks, said by phone from
Lisle,  Illinois . “Ambow has different business lines and it’s
hard to find synergy. It’s a bit messier than the other
education companies.”  Solar Volatility  Trina and Yingli slumped as the bankruptcy of Suntech Power
Holdings Co., once the world’s biggest solar-panel maker, stoked
stock volatility. Chinese solar companies listed in the U.S.
will extend declines as Suntech’s situation ignites concern
other firms are also over-leveraged, according to David Smith,
manager of Gamco Investors Inc.’s Gabelli Green Fund, which sold
out of Chinese solar equities before 2012.  Trina, a Guangzhou-based manufacturer that is the world’s
third-largest maker of solar cells, sank 11 percent to $3.46,
the biggest one-day decline since November. Baoding-based solar
panel maker Yingli tumbled 9.7 percent to $1.96, the steepest
slump since August.  American depositary receipts of  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) ,
China’s largest solar-cell producer by capacity, dropped 11
percent to $3.71, the lowest level since December. The Shanghai-
based company reported a net loss for the fourth quarter that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as panel prices fell.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the largest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.3 percent to
$36.82 in New York, while the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
dropped 0.3 percent to 1,551.69.  Ambow Slump  Baring, a private equity firm based in Hong Kong, proposed
buying Ambow for $1.46 per ADR in a non-binding offer worth $74
million as of March 15.  Ambow  tumbled  20 percent to a record-low 94.97 cents March
22 after saying a unit of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP resigned as
its auditor, citing concern a probe into allegations by former
employees of financial impropriety won’t be given necessary
resources and time. Ambow said March 18 that three of its
directors stepped down amid differences with management over the
investigation and corporate governance.  ADRs of Ambow have lost about 75 percent since July, when
the company said that it was looking into claims of wrongful
conduct related to the 2008 acquisition of a training school.
The company operates schools and tutoring centers in China.  Ambow Investors  U.S. regulators probing potential fraud by nine China-based
companies increased pressure on their auditors in December by
formally accusing affiliates of the Big Four firms of
withholding documents from investigators. The Securities and
Exchange Commission hasn’t named the nine companies.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was the  biggest holder  of Ambow’s U.S.
stock as of Dec. 31, accounting for 9.9 percent of the
outstanding shares, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Toro Investment Partners LP held 8.1 percent of the shares,
while Government of Singapore Investment Corp Pte had 5.2
percent.  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, rose 2.6
percent to $189.9 in New York, the biggest one-day gain in eight
weeks. Analysts at brokerages including Mirae Asset Securities
Co. and Bank of Communications Ltd. raised their recommendations
on the stock to buy from hold.  Longwei Listing  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (386) , Asia’s biggest refiner,
advanced 1.3 percent to $115.06 in U.S. trading after saying
that it expects more deals with its state-owned parent. The
Beijing-based company announced a 50-50 joint venture with China
Petrochemical Corp. to replace dwindling reserves with oilfields
in Kazakhstan, Colombia and  Russia .  Longwei Petroleum Investment Holding Ltd., an energy
company based in China’s Shanxi province, tumbled 11 percent to
12 cents in New York after saying in a statement that it
received a notice from the New York Stock Exchange that it may
delist the company by April 1.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  added 0.8 percent
yesterday to 10,978 in Hong Kong, after slipping 1.1 percent
last week. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic Chinese
shares fell less than 0.1 percent to 2,326.72, paring last
week’s 2.2 percent advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  