-- Hanlong Misses Deadline for $1.19 Billion Sundance Iron Bid
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-26T01:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/hanlong-faces-deadline-today-for-1-19-billion-sundance-iron-bid.html
The missing billionaire chairman of
Sichuan Hanlong Group, reportedly in police custody, faces the
collapse of his company’s $1.19 billion takeover of  Australia ’s
 Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  as a term-sheet deadline looms.  Closely held Hanlong won’t deliver a term sheet to acquire
Sundance by 5 p.m. in Perth today and the deal can be ended if
further talks don’t lead to an agreement by April 3, Sundance
said in a statement. The target said March 21 it hasn’t been
able to reach Liu Han and the official Xinhua News Agency
reported March 22 that a man with the same name is under
investigation for sheltering a murder suspect.  Liu Han’s disappearance has compounded Hanlong’s struggles
to secure funding and government approval for its acquisition of
the iron ore miner. Hanlong reduced its original October 2011
bid last year after iron ore prices plunged. The deadline for
the term sheet was extended when China Development Bank Corp.
failed to agree on a loan.  “It’s been a very long process that has failed,” said
Evan Lucas, market strategist at IG Markets Ltd. in  Melbourne .
“The underlying commodity is moving in the wrong direction.”  Sundance’s shares were suspended March 19 after trading in
Sydney at 21 Australian cents, below Hanlong’s offer of 45 cents
a share, signaling investors don’t expect the deal to succeed.
Hanlong, which holds about  14 percent  of Perth-based Sundance,
in August cut its bid for Sundance by 21 percent to 45 cents.
The shares have fallen more than 46 percent since Nov. 30.  Terminate Deal  “In light of this advice from Hanlong, Sundance and
Hanlong are required to enter into a five business day good
faith consultation period,” Sundance said in the statement.
“If the parties fail to reach an agreement during that period,
either party may then terminate,” the deal, it said.  A March 22 Xinhua report posted to the website of China’s
Ministry of Public Security said the murder suspect who had been
given shelter was Liu Yong, from the city of Guanghan in Sichuan
province. The article said his brother, Liu Han, was being
investigated for harboring him, without identifying Liu Han as
Hanlong’s chairman.  Hanlong Chairman Liu Han’s residence is also in Guanghan,
 according to  a 2003 statement by Sichuan Jinlu Group, which is
part-owned by Hanlong. In a March 20 statement, Jinlu said it
wasn’t able to get in touch with him.  Xinhua reported in 2009 that a man named Liu Yong incited
gunmen to kill three people at an outdoor teahouse in the
Sichuan city of Deyang.  Assassination Attempt  Liu Han’s past also includes escaping an attack by hired
gunmen. Xinhua reported in 2006 that a businessman from Sichuan
province named Liu Han was the target of a 1997 assassination
attempt by another businessman who blamed him for the loss of
more than 90 million yuan. A hit man hired by  Yuan  Baojing tried
to kill Liu Han and failed, according to Xinhua. Yuan was
executed in 2006 for killing another man who threatened to
expose the murder plot, Xinhua reported, without identifying Liu
Han as Hanlong’s chairman.  Attempts by Sundance to contact Liu Han have failed since
at least March 21, as have efforts by another Chinese firm,
Sichuan Jinlu Group, that he leads. Sundance Chairman George
Jones couldn’t be reached for comment when contacted on his
mobile phone late yesterday. Paul Armstrong, of Read Corporate,
an outside spokesman for Sundance, declined to comment.  A probe of Liu Han could lead to the highest-profile case
against a Chinese businessman since Xi Jinping and Li Keqiang
took control of the Communist Party in November as part of a
once-a-decade leadership transition. Xi and Li were named
president and premier this month, both promising to get tough on
corruption.  Public Examples  Liu Han was ranked the 230th richest person in  China  with
wealth of 6.3 billion yuan ($1 billion), according a list of the
1,000 richest people in China published September 2012 by the
Shanghai-based Hurun Report. That was up 26 percent from 2011,
Hurun said. Liu Han was a member of the Sichuan province’s
political consultative conference, a government advisory body,
according to a notice in 2009.  “It is possible they will make an example out of it to
convince the public that even multimillionaires are not immune
to the new spirit of fighting corruption,” said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of history at the Chinese University
of Hong Kong. “It may be one of these politically well-timed
cases to illustrate the party’s determination.”   Liu Han and his ex-wife were in Beijing during the National
Party Congress this month and were detained after it ended,
according to a report in Shanghai Securities News, which cited
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  Consultation Period  Sichuan Hanlong media official Wu Shijun declined to
comment when reached by telephone yesterday. Two calls to the
office of the board secretary of Sichuan Jinlu Group rang
unanswered yesterday, as did a call to the Ministry of Public
Security in Beijing.  In the absence of an agreed extension, failure to deliver
the term sheets today will trigger the five-business day good-
faith consultation period, followed by a 10-day termination
period in which both parties may end the deal, Sundance said
March 20. The two companies had met and they remained in
incomplete and confidential talks, Sundance said March 22.  “The banks I don’t think would find themselves in a
position to do any lending,” Peter Rudd, resources and mining
manager at Altitude Private Wealth in Melbourne, said by phone.
The deal going ahead “seems remote with the recent
circumstances that have developed,” he said.  Iron Ore Prices  Iron ore prices may decline to an average of $110 a metric
ton in 2014, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. They have averaged at $148.90 a ton this year. Mining
companies deferred expansions and delayed projects on
expectations that prices have passed their highs, after economic
growth began slowing in China, the biggest buyer of metals.  Liu Han’s disappearance may scuttle a second deal as well:
 General Moly Inc. (GMO) , the Lakewood, Colorado-based owner of two
molybdenum mining projects in  Nevada , suspended work on a $665
million loan that was to be arranged by Sichuan Hanlong after
the report that Liu Han had been detained.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Helen Yuan in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  