-- Anti-Gay-Marriage Protest Becomes Catch-All for French Gloom
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2013-03-25T09:41:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/anti-gay-marriage-protest-becomes-catch-all-for-french-gloom.html
An anti-gay-marriage protest in
Paris yesterday turned into a lightning rod for anger over
President  Francois Hollande ’s economic policies.  Thousands of demonstrators -- 1.4 million according to the
organizers, 300,000 according to the police -- marched down the
French capital’s boulevards, as police used tear gas to disperse
protestors who tried to break through barriers to get onto the
Champs-Elysees, Paris’s best-known avenue.  Although the demonstration was called to protest proposed
“marriage-for-all” legislation that would give same-sex
partnerships equal status with heterosexual unions and allow gay
people to adopt children, signs carried by demonstrators showed
that anger on the streets is widening to other issues.  “We want jobs rather than stupid laws,” one banner read.  France is suffering from its most severe economic
contraction since 2009, forcing Hollande to abandon his 2013
deficit target and find additional savings to appease the
nation’s European partners. Unemployment has surged to a 13-year
high of 10.6 percent as  PSA Peugeot-Citroen SA (UG)  and other
manufacturers eliminate tens of thousands of jobs.  Hollande has become the most unpopular French leader since
1981, a TNS-Sofres poll showed. More than two-thirds of the
French and 44 percent of those who voted for him in the second,
decisive round of the May election say they’re disappointed,
according to a March 3 BVA poll in Le Parisien.  Gay Marriage  The demonstrations were the second such show of force this
year by people opposed to the marriage-for-all bill. France’s
National Assembly voted in favor of the law Feb. 12, with a
debate in the upper house, or Senate, slated to start April 2.  The proposal has divided  France , a predominantly Catholic
country. Opinion polls show that a majority of voters favor
giving same-sex couples the right to marry, though they oppose
giving such couples rights to adoption or medically assisted
procreation.  Pollster BVA found that 58 percent of voters favor gay
marriage, while 53 percent oppose giving gay couples the right
to adopt, according to a survey published in January. CSA,
another polling company, found that 52 percent favor gay
marriage and the same proportion oppose adoption by same-sex
couples.  Yesterday’s protest differed from anti-gay-marriage
demonstrations Jan. 13 due to a much higher number of placards
with political and economic slogans, French daily Liberation
reported today.  “It’s the entire policy platform of the government that
needs to be criticized,” the newspaper quoted opposition
lawmaker  Henri Guaino  as saying.  Some demonstrators called for Hollande to resign, citing
France’s deteriorating economy.  “The protestors’ slogans have changed,” Le Parisien
newspaper said. “They are no longer limited to the subject of
marriage but are encroaching on economic matters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  