-- ANZ Vies With HSBC in Expanding Structured Products in Vietnam
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-03-25T02:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/anz-vies-with-hsbc-in-expanding-structured-products-in-vietnam.html
Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  is boosting offerings of structured products in
 Vietnam , as it competes with  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to lure the
nation’s growing population of affluent individuals.  ANZ is preparing to introduce deposits linked to overseas
equities, with longer-term plans to issue structured notes for
sale in the country, Duong Duc Hung, who overseas the company’s
wealth-management business in Vietnam, said in a phone
interview. The lender in July began offering three new types of
savings yielding returns tied to foreign-exchange rates and
gold, after introducing Vietnam’s first structured deposits in
2009.  The offerings are part of the bank’s push to tap demand for
high-return investments among an increasing number of rich
individuals as the Southeast Asian economy grows. HSBC is the
only other foreign bank offering similar structured deposits,
Duong said. The number of Vietnamese with net assets of more
than $30 million will probably surge 85 percent to 344 by 2022,
the ninth-fastest pace among 19 Asian nations, according to
London-based property consultancy  Knight Frank LLP .  “Growth has been exponential,” Duong said. “Since we
launched these products in July 2012, we have seen significant
responsiveness from customers in Vietnam.”  The bank has raised about A$40 million ($41.8 million) from
the latest offerings, as the number of clients investing in
structured deposits has quadrupled since the products were
introduced in 2009, he said.  The newest principal-protected products have maturities of
one year or longer and three basic payout structures, requiring
a minimum investment of the equivalent of $10,000. Mostly tied
to gold prices, popular investments can yield as much as 18
percent a year, Duong said.  HSBC Products  HSBC announced in February that it will begin selling a new
product. The lender planned to sell three-month deposits tied to
the Australian and U.S. dollars from March 5 to March 11,
according to its  website .  Cao Thi Huong Giang, a Ho Chi Minh City-based spokeswoman
for HSBC, said in an e-mail that the bank’s head of wealth
management in the country wasn’t immediately available to
comment on its structured products.  The increase in Vietnam’s gross domestic product averaged
7.3 percent annually in the first decade of the century before
growth slowed. The World Bank in December forecast that
Vietnam’s economy will expand 5.5 percent this year.  “In 1995, it was mostly motorbikes” on the street, Duong
said. “Now if you come to Hanoi, or Ho Chi Minh, you see
different types of cars. It has been an exponential change in
the past 10 to 15 years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Hong Kong at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  