-- Cyprus, Argentina, SEC Tick-Size, Bonuses: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-03-25T13:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/argentina-funds-sec-tick-size-pilot-bonuses-compliance.html
Cyprus dodged a disorderly default
and unprecedented exit from the euro by bowing to demands from
creditors to shrink its banking system in exchange for
10 billion euros ($13 billion) of aid.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut the
country’s second-largest bank under pressure from a German-led
bloc in a night-time negotiating melodrama that threatened to
rekindle the debt crisis and rattle markets.  “It’s been yet another hard day’s night,” European Union
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told
reporters in Brussels early today. “There were no optimal
solutions available, only hard choices.”  It was the second time in nine days that Cyprus struck a
deal with its euro partners and the  International Monetary Fund ,
capping a tumultuous week that underscored the contradictions of
the crisis management that has dominated European policy making
for more than three years. Cyprus, the euro area’s third-
smallest economy, is the fifth country to tap international aid
since the crisis broke out in Greece in 2009.  The first Cypriot accord, reached March 16, fell apart
three days later when the parliament in Nicosia rejected a key
plank, a tax on all bank accounts that sparked the indignation
of smaller depositors. Efforts to win an alternative bailout
from Russia, which lent Cyprus 2.5 billion euros in 2011 when
the nation was shut out of international markets, failed.  The revised accord spares bank accounts below the insured
limit of 100,000 euros. It imposes losses that two EU officials
said would be no more than 40 percent on uninsured depositors at
 Bank of Cyprus Plc , the largest bank, which will take over the
viable assets of  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the second biggest.  Cyprus Popular Bank, 84 percent owned by the government,
will be wound down. Those who will be largely wiped out include
uninsured depositors and bondholders, including senior
creditors. Senior bondholders will also contribute to the
recapitalization of Bank of Cyprus.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  Argentina Tightens Securities Regulation as Peso Slides  Argentina modified rules governing mutual fund investments
in locally traded securities of foreign companies in a bid to
increase investment in local companies and curb capital flight.  The regulator reduced the proportion of securities known as
Cedears, which are peso-denominated shares and bonds of foreign
companies, that mutual funds can hold to 25 percent from 75
percent, as the assets are now considered to be a foreign
investment, according to resolutions published in the March 22
 official gazette .  “It’s understood that it’s appropriate to limit the
maximum rate of investment in that asset class to ensure proper
channeling of domestic savings into productive development,”
according to the resolution.  The measure is part of President Cristina Fernandez de
Kirchner’s efforts to bring dollars back to the country and curb
capital flight as the peso is forecast to weaken at the fastest
rate in the world and reserves, which the country uses to pay
debt, fell 13 percent in the past 12 months to $41 billion. She
also made insurance companies repatriate foreign investments and
forces them to invest part of their portfolio in government
sponsored companies and projects.  The resolution also states that the securities that don’t
trade in the local exchanges must be valued according to the
closing price in the market where they trade using the official
currency rate published by state-controlled Banco de la Nacion
Argentina.  Each business day, investment funds will have to provide
the regulator with details of the composition and valuation of
their portfolios, the resolution says.  Telephone calls to the securities regulator’s press
department seeking comment on the resolution went unanswered.  For more, click here.  SEC Favors Pilot Program to Vary Tick Size for Small U.S. Stocks  The U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission ’s staff is
poised to recommend a pilot program to test whether larger
trading increments promote more active trading of small stocks.  A pilot program would increase the ‘‘tick size,” or
minimum increment for quoting shares, for smaller public
companies. A 2012 law, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act,
required the SEC to examine the impact that penny increments had
on the liquidity of shares issued by small- and medium-size
companies.  In theory, wider tick sizes would increase the spread
between bid and offer prices, boosting profits for market
makers. Higher profits may revive interest in funding analyst
research on small stocks, generating greater interest in the
stocks, supporters of the idea say.  Proponents say widening minimum tick sizes would help boost
the number of small companies going public, while skeptics
complain it will cause people to pay more when they trade. U.S.
exchanges began quoting stocks in pennies in 2001, after over
200 years pricing equities in fractions. The move to penny
increments benefited professional traders willing to pay a penny
more to jump in front of a competing bid, Angel said.  At a roundtable on decimalization last month at the SEC,
many participants expressed support for a pilot even as some
questioned whether varying tick sizes would yield more IPOs or
research coverage.  Skeptics of varying tick sizes point out the benefits are
unknown, while it’s clear the move to 1-cent increments lowered
spreads and created savings for investors.  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, declined to say how soon
a tick-size pilot program would be approved.  A pilot program would probably move forward under the SEC’s
next chairman. Mary Jo White, President  Barack Obama ’s nominee
to lead the agency, told senators on March 12 that she was
inclined to believe that one tick size “doesn’t necessarily fit
all.”  Europe’s Bonus Clampdown Hits Two-Thirds of Fund Managers  The  European Parliament ’s vote to cap bonuses in the asset-
management industry could affect two-thirds of senior fund
managers in the U.K., U.S. funds in Europe and hedge funds open
to small investors.  Bonuses should not exceed base salaries for managers of
mutual funds regulated by the European Union, known as  UCITS ,
European lawmakers in the economic and monetary affairs
committee voted March 21. The rules would cover 5 trillion euros
($6.5 trillion) of assets in UCITS, which include funds managed
outside Europe and some linked to hedge-fund strategies such as
 John Paulson ’s New York-based Paulson & Co. and  Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group LLC. (OZM)   Flushed with the success of overhauling bank-capital rules
that banned bankers’ bonuses of more than twice fixed pay,
European policy makers are pressing for tougher rules on fund
managers. The managers will respond by increasing fixed
salaries, moving overseas and pulling products from Europe if
they can’t dilute the rules, industry lobby groups said.  The committee’s proposal sets the stage for a vote by the
full European Parliament before negotiations with national
diplomats can start.  For more, click here.  China, Brazil Reach Consensus on 190b Yuan Currency Swap  Consensus was reached recently on a 190b  Yuan  currency swap
plan to be created between the  People’s Bank of China  and Banco
Central Do Brasil, Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei said at a
briefing in Beijing.  An agreement on the currency-swap plan will be signed
“soon,” Hong said. The currency-swap mechanism will “help
promote economic and trade interaction between the two
countries” and safeguard financial stability, he said.  Chinese and Brazilian leaders are to meet this week during
annual BRICS summit in Durban, South Africa.  U.K. Finance Regulator to Shift Focus to Consumer Protection  The U.K. finance regulator will renew its focus on
consumers and continue to investigate market abuse and other
rule breaches, including manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate, as it prepares to split into two new agencies.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority will be replaced on
April 1 with a consumer-focused watchdog and a prudential
regulator that will be a unit of the  Bank of England . The
consumer agency, the Financial Conduct Authority, will continue
many of the current initiatives of the finance regulator, the
FSA said in a statement today.  The main risks in the industry for the coming year are
firms designing products that aren’t in the long-term interest
of consumers and don’t respond to their needs, a lack of
transparency on what’s being sold, a poor understanding by
consumers of risk, and a shift toward more complex structured
products that lack oversight, according to the statement.  “We are introducing new approaches to the way we do much
of our work, becoming much more proactive and consumer-
focused,” said Martin Wheatley, the chief executive officer-
designate of the FCA. “A risk for all regulators is becoming
bound to conventional thinking. That is why the new regulator
will be much more transparent, so we can learn from our
mistakes. There is no room for the poor behavior of the past.”  The FCA will regulate the conduct of around 26,000 firms
and the prudential standards of as many as 23,000 financial
companies, the regulator said.  Middle Ground on Cross-Border Swaps Rule Sought by SEC’s Walter  U.S. regulators should apply domestic derivatives rules to
overseas firms when foreign laws don’t demand comparable
requirements, Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Elisse
B. Walter said in a speech today.  That approach to oversight required by the Dodd-Frank Act
would be an alternative to finding overseas rules are “broadly
equivalent” in a way that might ignore regulatory gaps between
countries, Walter said in a speech prepared for an Australian
Securities and Investments Commission conference in Sydney.  The comments by Walter come as the SEC is preparing to
issue a proposal for outlining cross-border application of its
rules for security-based swaps. Overseas regulators have pressed
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to curb the reach of
its requirement that trades be guaranteed at clearinghouses and
traded on exchanges or other platforms.  Her call for substituted compliance was a “middle ground”
between Europe’s call for equivalence and the most strict
approach requiring U.S. and overseas regulations to align
perfectly, Walter said.  Compliance Action  Franklin Square Raises Billions as Brokers Push Junk-Loan Funds  Brokers across the U.S. are tapping into demand for high-
yield debt, and drawing regulatory scrutiny, by pushing
investors into pools of risky loans that have extracted more in
fees than they’ve paid out in profit.  Sales of junk-rated debt funds known as non-traded
business-development companies doubled to a record $2.8 billion
last year, according to estimates by  MTS Research Advisors , a
Gilbert, Arizona-based consulting firm. Franklin Square Capital
Partners, the Philadelphia firm that created the securities
about four years ago, said it took in $134 million of revenue
last year, much of that passed on to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , which
picks the loans and manages the portfolios.  The funds, sold by brokers, take investor money and lend it
to companies.  The investments are luring individuals with
annual payouts of about 8 percent and access to managers
including Blackstone and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  Brokerages generally take 10
percent upfront, several times the amount charged by similar
junk-loan mutual funds, while management and performance fees
rival those of hedge funds.  In addition to the upfront commissions, investors generally
pay 2 percent management fees and about 20 percent of returns,
Jonathan Bock, a  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  analyst, wrote in a January
report.  Investors in Franklin Square’s initial $2.5 billion fund
have paid a total of $323.5 million in commissions and fees
since 2008, Bock wrote in the report. That’s 25 percent more
than the $258 million it has distributed to investors, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rapid increase in sales has drawn scrutiny from the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, which said in a  January
letter  to brokers that monitoring the investments is among its
priorities this year. The non-traded securities may be hard for
investors to sell, according to Finra.  Franklin Square created the unlisted version in 2008, as
brokers were raising billions of dollars selling another type of
non-traded investment, real estate investment trusts.  “It’s really about bringing institutional-quality
alternatives to the investing public,” Chief Executive Officer
Michael Forman said in a phone interview. “Everybody wants to
invest in alternatives.”  Franklin Square’s pitch is that the new structure allows
investors who don’t have enough money to buy private-equity or
hedge funds to diversify into loans to smaller companies,
according to its  website .  “We don’t think the fees on these products are all that
much different than we see with variable annuities or with
mutual funds,” Forman said.  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Board Cleared in Libor Probe, Handelsblatt Says  Deutsche Bank’s management board was cleared of wrongdoing
in German banking regulator Bafin’s preliminary report on a
probe into alleged attempts by traders at the company to rig
interbank borrowing rates, Handelsblatt reported, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter.  The report’s findings show that Deutsche Bank had
organizational shortcomings in submitting Libor rates. Deutsche
Bank has corrected the shortcomings by giving oversight to a
unit based in the risk management department, the newspaper
said. Bafin verbally informed the German Finance Ministry of its
findings and will present the ministry with a preliminary report
this month, Handelsblatt reported.  The final report is to be presented to the ministry mid-
year, the newspaper said.  Deutsche Bank said in July that internal probe cleared
current or former board members of wrongdoing. The bank said in
January that it probably won’t resolve all issues pertaining to
alleged rigging this year.  Kinnucan Deserves Triple Penalties for Egregious Acts, SEC Says  An expert-networker sentenced to more than four years in
prison for passing tips to hedge fund clients should pay a
triple penalty in a civil case because of his “egregious”
behavior, U.S. regulators said.  John Kinnucan, who pleaded guilty to insider trading and
was sentenced for his criminal conduct, is still defending
himself in the lawsuit over his “flagrant and involved”
actions, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said in a
March 22 court filing.  The SEC seeks a summary judgment granting its request
without a trial that Kinnucan be ordered to pay $4.75 million in
penalties for the insider-trading scheme that lasted at least
two years.  As the founder of Broadband Research LLC, an expert-
networking firm he ran from his home in Portland, Oregon,
Kinnucan pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy and two
counts of  securities fraud  for obtaining and passing illegal
tips to hedge fund clients, including two in New York.  Kinnucan admitted getting inside information about  SanDisk
Corp. (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV)  and  OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI) ,
including quarterly revenue numbers, after befriending employees
of technology companies from 2008 to 2010.  The civil case is SEC v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-01230, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan); the
criminal case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-00163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-Deutsche Bank Accountant Gets 3 1/2 Years for Tax Fraud  David Parse, a former  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  accountant, was
sentenced to three and a half years in prison for his role in
what prosecutors claim is the biggest criminal tax-fraud
prosecution in history.  Parse, 51, was convicted in 2011 of mail fraud and
obstructing the Internal Revenue Service as part of a scheme to
market fraudulent tax shelters that the U.S. said cost the
Treasury more than $230 million in lost taxes. He was sentenced
March 22 by U.S. District Judge William Pauley in Manhattan.  “Parse played a central and longstanding role in the
criminal scheme,” Pauley said before announcing the sentence.  Parse was accused of being a key actor in a fraud that
created more than $7 billion in illegal tax deductions and
benefits. He made $3 million in commissions from the fraud,
according to the government.  In addition to the prison time, Pauley sentenced Parse to
three years of supervised release, $115.7 million in restitution
and $1 million forfeiture.  The case is U.S. v. Daugerdas, 09-cr-00581, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  John Thomas’s Belesis Aided Hedge-Fund Fraud for Fees, SEC Says  Anastasios “Tommy” Belesis, founder of John Thomas
Financial Inc., and Houston radio host George Jarkesy defrauded
investors in two hedge funds, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission said.  The two men, both 38, told investors the funds were
independent from the brokerage then steered excessive fees to
Belesis’s New York-based firm, the SEC said in a March 22
 statement . The regulator said it started administrative
proceedings against Belesis, Jarkesy, who managed the funds, and
their firms. They could face punishments including disgorgement
and financial penalties, the SEC said.  Belesis worked with Jarkesy to raise two funds in 2007 and
2009, which peaked at $30 million under management, telling
investors they would invest in microcap stocks, bridge loans and
life-insurance policies, the SEC said. Jarkesy inflated the
value of investments in disclosures and hired stock promoters to
boost the price of shares, while Belesis and John Thomas
Financial “willfully aided, abetted and caused” the hedge
funds’ violations, according to the regulator.  “Jarkesy disregarded the basic standards to which all fund
managers are held,” Andrew M. Calamari, director of the SEC’s
New York regional office, said in the statement. “Not only did
he falsify valuations and deceive investors about the value of
their holdings, but he bent over backwards to enrich Belesis at
the funds’ expense.”  The SEC said in a March 22  complaint  that Belesis
repeatedly pushed Jarkesy for more fees, in a “profane and
belligerent manner,” and tried to make the funds invest in
companies his firm had interests in. On one occasion cited by
the SEC, after Belesis yelled at the fund manager, Jarkesy tried
to reassure him by saying in an e-mail: “We will always try to
get you as much as possible, Everytime without exception!”  Belesis “intends to defend himself vigorously against
these allegations,” said David Pitts of Argot Partners LLC, a
spokesman for the brokerage chief. Jason Lewis, Jarkesy’s lawyer
at Locke Lord LLP in Dallas, said his client denies the
allegations.  Cyprus Videos/Interviews  Dijsselbloem, Rehn, Lagarde on Cyprus Bailout Deal  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who chairs
meetings of euro finance ministers, European Union Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner Olli Rehn and  Christine Lagarde ,
managing director of the International Monetary Fund, speak at a
news conference in Brussels about reaching an agreement on a
bailout for Cyprus.  Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an international bailout,
paving the way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency
loans and eliminating the threat of default.  To watch the video, click here.  Barnier Says Cypriot Deal Is ‘Better Than Bankruptcy’  European Union Financial Services Commissioner  Michel
Barnier  speaks in Brussels about the long-term financing needs
of the European economy, Cyprus’s 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
rescue deal and the outlook for the nation’s banks.  To watch the video, click here.  Lawmaker Says Cyprus Must Assess Benefit of a Euro Exit  Nicholas Papadopoulos, Cypriot lawmaker and chairman of the
parliamentary finance committee, discusses the consequences of
the nation’s 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) bailout.  He speaks in Nicosia with  Ryan Chilcote  on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.” To watch the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 