-- Arizona Republicans Claim Democratic Taint on Vote Maps
-- B y   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/arizona-republicans-claim-democratic-taint-on-vote-maps.html
Republicans seeking to void
 Arizona ’s redrawn  voter districts  over claims they favor
Democrats said a Democratic party operative had his “hands all
over” the maps and that the commission responsible for them was
biased.  The Republican voters accused the Independent Redistricting
Commission of “a pattern of discriminatory intent” as a three-
day non-jury trial began yesterday in Phoenix federal court over
their fight to have the legislative districts redrawn.  “The chairperson, who is supposed to be independent,”
demonstrated “sympathy for the Democratic Party,” Republican
lawyer David Cantelme said yesterday in opening arguments. “The
election director for the Democratic Party had his hands all
over the map-drawing process.”  Cantelme alleged that a tainted process resulted in Arizona
districts eight, 24 and 26 becoming Democratic Party-held. He
seeks a ruling from the three-judge panel, made up of two
Republican and one Democratic-appointee, that the districts are
unconstitutional.  Lawyers for the commission rejected the allegations.
Because the maximum population difference among the redrawn
districts is less than 10 percent, the redistricting plan is
legally presumed constitutional, the commission said. That puts
the burden on opponents to show variances were the result of an
unconstitutional policy, the commission said.  Cantelme said yesterday he would show that the chairwoman,
Colleen Mathis, in her application for the position, didn’t
disclose donations by her or her husband to the Democratic
Party. Cantelme said he will also argue that the “majority of
the commissioners” froze out Republicans on the panel.  ‘Public Session’  In his opening statement, Phoenix attorney Colin F.
Campbell, who represents the defendants, said “Every map drawn
by this commission was done in public session.”  He told the panel, led by Chief U.S. District Judge Roslyn Silver, that the commission followed standard procedures of
redistricting and created “equal districts throughout the
state.”  Campbell said the commission “had to protect the ability
of minority populations to elect candidates of their choice,”
and acted accordingly in their map-making. He said the
commission’s map-making sought to protect the voting rights of
“Hispanic and Native American populations” throughout the
state.  Silver was appointed by U.S. President Bill Clinton, a
Democrat. The other panel members, U.S. Circuit Judge Richard Clifton, and U.S. District Judge Neil Wake, were appointed by
former President George W. Bush, a Republican.  ‘Systematically Packed’  The commission systematically packed districts with
Republican majorities while leaving districts with Democratic
majorities under-populated to increase Democratic strength in
the legislature, the Republican voters said in a March 18
filing. There was no legitimate or constitutional reason for the
population deviations among the districts, they claimed.  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer, a Republican, unsuccessfully
tried last year to fire Mathis. Brewer accused Mathis, a
registered Independent, and other commissioners of conducting
business in secret and not following constitutional requirements
when they adopted draft maps of electoral districts.  Arizona’s Supreme Court overruled the governor, saying
sufficient cause hadn’t been demonstrated.  Six Challenges  Leading to the Nov. 6 election, at least six challenges
were filed to state redistricting plans in the U.S.  In January 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court threw out judge-
drawn voting districts for state and federal elections in  Texas ,
ordering a lower court to create maps more similar to those
drawn by the state’s Republican-controlled Legislature.  Arizona has 30 members in its Senate and 60 members in its
House of Representatives; each district is represented by one
senator and two house members. Of 17 legislative districts in
Arizona that have a Republican plurality -- more registered
Republican voters than any voters registered with another party
-- 16 have more residents than the ideal population of 213,067,
according to the plaintiffs. Only two of the districts with a
Democratic plurality exceed the ideal population, they said.  As the only independent on the commission, Mathis was
selected as its leader by the other members, two of whom were
chosen by Republicans in the legislature and two by Democrats.
The commission was created by a voter referendum in 2000.  “Plaintiffs will not be able to meet their burden that the
actual reason for the population deviations is improper
partisanship or that the commission otherwise acted for an
improper purpose when it approved a map with minor population
deviations among districts,” the commission said in a court
filing.  First Witness  Commissioner Richard Stertz was the first witness for the
plaintiffs yesterday.  Stertz, a Tucson general contractor, testified that in 2011
he was appointed to the commission by a Republican, then-state
senate president Russell Pearce.  Stertz testified that when he joined, he wasn’t made aware
of any contributions to the Democratic Party made by Mathis.  He said, in response to questions from Cantelme, that it
would have been “material” to him had he known of such
donations.  The plaintiffs allege that Dennis “D.J.” Quinlan, at the
time the election director of the Democratic Party in Arizona,
exchanged map files and e-mails with the two Democratic members
of the commission, Linda McNulty and Jose Herrera, that showed
they were looking at where incumbent legislators lived in
particular districts.  Login Information  Quinlan, who is scheduled to testify at the trial, also
received from McNulty login information for the computer system
of the mapping consultant the commission used. McNulty provided
the consultant with a thumb drive that contained significant
change to two districts, the Republican plaintiffs said.  McNulty said in a pretrial deposition that she didn’t
recall whether she made the changes herself or “with D.J.’s
help,” according to a March 11 court filing.  The commission said Quinlan’s involvement with
redistricting has been publicly known and that, even if Quinlan
was involved in preparing possible changes on the thumb drive,
no changes were made to the map unless it was considered by the
commission, according to a March 12 court filing.  Quinlan, who is now executive director of the Democratic
Party in Arizona, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail
seeking comment on the testimony.  The case is Harris v. Arizona Independent Redistricting
Commission, 12-cv-00894, U.S. District Court, District of
Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Hermann in U.S. District Court for the District of
Arizona in Phoenix at  aphoto61@cox.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal court house at 
   epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  