-- Arsenal May Be Priced Out of Move for Jovetic: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-03-25T10:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/arsenal-may-be-priced-out-of-move-for-jovetic-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of
soccer stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet
links.  Arsenal Priced Out?  Arsenal is in danger of being priced out of a move for
Fiorentina’s Stevan Jovetic because the Italian team wants more
than 25 million pounds ($38.1 million) for the Montenegrin
striker, the  Daily Express reported .  Juventus and both Milan clubs are also keen on Jovetic,
raising the prospect of a bidding war, the newspaper said.
Arsenal’s transfer record is the 15 million pounds it paid to
Zenit St. Petersburg for Andrei Arshavin in 2009, the Express
added.  Left-Back Options  Manchester United  renewed its search to find a long-term
replacement for left-back Patrice Evra, the  Daily Mail reported .  Although Evra’s form this season has fueled speculation
that he’ll be offered a contract extension, United scouts
recently watched Porto’s Alex Sandro and plan to assess other
left-backs before the end of the season, the Mail added.  Barcelona Backups  Barcelona identified Manchester City duo  Vincent Kompany 
and  Sergio Aguero  as alternatives if the Spanish team fails to
sign Borussia Dortmund defender Mats Hummels and keep forward
 David Villa , the  Daily Mirror reported .  City will fight to keep club captain Kompany as he was
crucial to last season’s Premier League title victory along with
Aguero, the newspaper added.  Saints Want Sinclair  Scott Sinclair  is Southampton’s top target after the winger
failed to make an impact at Manchester City, the  Sun reported .  Sinclair has made just two starts for City since joining
from Swansea for 6.2 million pounds last year, the Sun added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  