-- Bond Risk Falls on Cyprus Accord; Defaulter Suzlon Markets Notes
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-03-25T05:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/asia-pacific-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swap-prices-show.html
Bond risk in the Asia-Pacific
region dropped after Cyprus reached an accord with creditors on
an international bailout.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the Indian wind-
turbine maker which defaulted on its convertible bonds last
year, and China State Construction International Holdings Ltd.
began marketing U.S. dollar-denominated notes.  Suzlon, which needs money to repay foreign creditors and
boost equity capital under its liability-restructuring agreement
with lenders, is offering five-year debt at a yield of about 5
percent, a person familiar with the matter said. Its outstanding
notes due 2016 tumbled to an all-time low of 35 cents in
October, when it failed to repay $209 million in India’s biggest
convertible-bond default.  A gauge of Asian bond risk is on track to drop for the
first time in more than a week as overnight talks in Brussels
paved the way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency
loans to Cyprus, which would make it the fifth country to tap a
rescue since the euro debt crisis broke out in Greece in 2009.
The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade borrowers
outside Japan fell 2 basis points to 118 basis points as of 8:18
a.m. in Hong Kong, set for its first fall since March 15, Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc and CMA prices show.  “In the near term, any headlines that come out of Europe
which mention working on some kind of bailout solution are going
to help sentiment,” Brayan Lai, an analyst in emerging-market
credit trading at Jefferies Group Inc. said. “There’s certainly
cash on the side that needs to be put to work.”  Tower Bersama  Suzlon’s new notes are backed by a stand-by letter of
credit from State Bank of India, a person familiar with the
matter said, asking not to be identified because the details are
private. The company, which named Amit Agarwal as its chief
financial officer last week, may raise as much as $650 million,
a different person said earlier this month.  Proceeds from the latest sale, being offered via wholly-
owned subsidiary AE-Rotor Holding BV, will be used to repay
loans, that person said. About two thirds of Suzlon’s $2.85
billion total bonds and loans outstanding fall due before 2015,
according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  China State Construction, a Hong Kong-based provider of
civil engineering works services, is marketing its five-year
dollar bonds at a spread of about 262.5 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, another person familiar with that
matter said today. PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure is also
marketing five-year notes at about 5 percent, another person
said.  Bharti Airtel  Other U.S. dollar bond sales in the market include Korea
Exchange Bank, which plans to sell five-year securities at about
140 basis points more than Treasuries, and Saudi Electricity
Co., which is considering pricing 10- and 30-year sukuk at
spreads of about 175 basis points and 210 basis points
respectively, according to separate people familiar with the
deals.  Bharti Airtel Ltd. is offering more of its 5.125 percent
notes due March 2023 at about par, or 100 cents on the dollar, a
person familiar with that matter said. Beijing Capital Land
Ltd., a builder of luxury residential properties, expects to
sell dollar bonds with no fixed maturity, according to a
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange.  The Markit iTraxx Asia index, which has ranged from 100.5
basis points to 120.8 basis points since Dec. 31, is set its
lowest close since March 20, according to data provider CMA.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index decreased 3.125 basis
points to 117.375 as of 12:46 p.m. in Sydney, Deutsche Bank AG
prices show.  Japanese Bonds  The Markit iTraxx Japan index declined 2.5 basis points to
104.5 as of 9:17 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc.
prices. The index has ranged from 101 basis points to 148.1
basis points this year, according to CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
private market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  