-- Tax-Shelter Penalty Gets Top Court Review in McCombs Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2013-03-25T13:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/tax-shelter-penalty-gets-top-court-review-in-mccombs-case.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will use a
case involving billionaire Billy Joe “Red” McCombs to decide
whether the federal government can impose hundreds of millions
of dollars in penalties for the use of abusive tax shelters.  The justices today said they will hear an Obama
administration appeal of a ruling favoring McCombs, the co-
founder of  Clear Channel Communications Inc. (CCMO)  and former owner of
the  Minnesota Vikings  and  San Antonio Spurs .  The case will test one aspect of the Internal Revenue
Service’s effort to recoup billions of dollars from high-income
taxpayers who set up shelters in the 1990s and 2000s.  At issue is the scope of a provision that lets the IRS
impose a 40 percent penalty on people who understate their
capital-gains tax liability by inflating their “basis” -- that
is, the cost of acquiring property that is later sold.  A federal appeals court said the penalty provision doesn’t
apply when the  Internal Revenue Service  treats the entire
transaction as a sham, as it did in the case of McCombs and his
business partner, Gary Woods.  The two men used a tax-avoidance strategy known as COBRA in
an effort to limit taxes in 1999, when McCombs was expecting
high income because of the expansion of the  National Football
League . Under COBRA, taxpayers used paper losses to offset real
gains -- and reduce their tax liability.  The government said McCombs and Woods, acting on advice
from the accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP, were able to claim
$45 million in losses from transactions that actually cost them
only $1.37 million.  Trial Judge  The high court case concerns only the 40 percent penalty,
not the underlying transactions. A federal trial judge concluded
that the losses should be disregarded for tax purposes and
imposed a 20 percent penalty under a separate provision of the
 tax code . Woods and McCombs aren’t appealing on that issue.  Lower courts are divided on the applicability of the 40
percent penalty in sham-transaction cases. In court papers, the
Obama administration said the rulings by the two federal appeals
courts that have barred the penalties “will continue to cost
the federal fisc hundreds of millions of dollars in forgone
penalties.”  Woods, acting on behalf of the partnerships he and McCombs
formed, urged the Supreme Court not to hear the case. Woods
contended the effect would be limited because Congress changed
the law in 2010 to explicitly allow the 40 percent penalty for
future cases.  The Supreme Court will take up the case during the nine-
month term that starts in October. The case is  United States  v.
Woods, 12-562.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  