-- Bank Credit Risk Drops in Europe as Cyprus Deal Averts Euro Exit
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-03-25T10:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/bank-credit-risk-drops-in-europe-as-cyprus-deal-averts-euro-exit.html
The cost of insuring against losses
on European bank debt dropped from the highest in four months as
a bailout agreement for Cyprus averted default and exit from the
euro system.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of credit-default swaps
insuring the senior debt of 25 banks and insurers fell seven
basis points to 170 at 10:10 a.m. in London, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A gauge of subordinated debt dropped 11
basis points to 288.5.  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut the
country’s second-largest bank in exchange for a 10 billion-euro
($13 billion) bailout. Senior and subordinated bondholders in
the nation’s banks will contribute to the bailout, as well as
shareholders and depositors with more than 100,000 euros in
their accounts.  “This deal has come as a sigh of relief and the market is
risk on,” said Juan Esteban Valencia, a strategist at Societe
Generale SA in Paris. “The fact that insured deposits are not
going to be bailed in is perhaps among the best outcomes we
could have hoped for.”  Collapse Averted  Under the revised accord,  Cyprus Popular Bank (CPB) , 84 percent
owned by the government, will be wound down. Those who will be
largely wiped out include uninsured depositors and bondholders,
including senior creditors. Senior bondholders will also
contribute to the recapitalization of Bank of Cyprus.  “The risk of a disorderly collapse has been taken off the
table,” credit analysts led by Michael Ridley at Mizuho
International Plc in London wrote in a client note.  The Markit iTraxx Europe index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell five to 114.5 basis points.
Contracts on the  Markit iTraxx Crossover Index  linked to 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 16 basis
points to 460.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  