-- Bankia Slumps After Spanish Recapitalization Wipes Out Investors
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2013-03-25T10:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/bankia-slumps-after-spanish-recapitalization-wipes-out-investors.html
Bankia SA (BKIA) , the Spanish lender that
needed the biggest European bailout, slumped as much as 52
percent in Madrid after a recapitalization left its  shareholders 
all but wiped out.  Bankia, which is Spain’s fourth-largest bank, slid 22
percent to 19.6 euro cents at 11:03 a.m., extending losses this
year to 50 percent. The drop since July 2011, when the bank sold
shares at 3.75 apiece in an initial public offering targeting
its own clients, increased to 95 percent.  Spain’s bank rescue fund announced the terms of a 15.5
billion-euro recapitalization plan for the bank last week that
cuts the nominal value of Bankia shares to 1 euro cent from 2
euros for a conversion of debt into shares. Bankia helped to
trigger Spain’s request for European aid for its banking
industry last year amid concern that mounting losses at the firm
would contaminate the finances of the government.  “Current shareholders will be wiped out,”  analysts 
including Juan Pablo Lopez at Espirito Santo Investment Bank
said in an e-mailed report dated yesterday from Madrid. The two
capital increases for the recapitalization imply growing the
number of shares in Bankia to more than 1.2 trillion from 2
billion, they said.  Once the reduction in the value of Bankia shares is in
place, the bank rescue fund, known as Frob, said it will group
the shares in blocks of 100 to give them a nominal value of 1
euro each.  Bankia will then carry out two capital increases to convert
10.7 billion euros of so-called contingent convertible bonds and
4.8 billion euros of hybrid securities including preferred
shares into shares.  Frob  said the reference price for the capital increase
after the reverse stock split will be 1 euro plus an issue
premium.  The subscription price may be 1.27 euros per share, taking
into account the 4.15 billion-euro negative equity value for
Bankia set by Frob, Carlos Joaquim Peixoto, an analyst at  Banco
BPI SA (BPI)  in Oporto, Portugal, said in a research note today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  