-- Batista Says Bears Will Lose as OGX Shorts Reach Record
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-03-25T21:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/batista-says-bears-will-lose-as-ogx-shorts-reach-record.html
Short sellers  have never been so
sure that  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
will extend declines even as the Brazilian billionaire says
bearish speculators will regret the wagers.  OGX shares on loan rose to 260 million on March 18, the
highest level since Bloomberg began compiling the data in
October 2010, before slipping to 258 million on March 22. The
amount of loaned  stock  surged more than threefold in the past 12
months and represents 20 percent of estimated free float, or
shares available for trading, the data show. In a short sale,
traders sell borrowed stock, anticipating the price will drop so
they can profit by buying back the shares at a lower price.  The Rio de Janeiro-based exploration company  has tumbled  86
percent in the past 12 months and closed at a record low on
March 22 amid concern Batista’s businesses are losing access to
financing. The 56-year-old, whose personal wealth has fallen
about $25 billion in the past year as the market value of his
companies sank, said in March 23 posts on his Twitter account
that “rumors and gossip are the tools of short sellers,” who
will be “caught with their pants down.”  “The picture is much worse than expected,” Aloisio Lemos,
an analyst at brokerage Agora Corretora in  Rio de Janeiro , said
in a phone interview. “It’s very natural for investors to seek
alternatives.”  Shares Decline  OGX  rose  0.9 percent to 2.29 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo , the first gain in three days. Volume was 1.58 times its
three-month average while 30-day volatility rose to 104 percent,
the highest since August, according to Bloomberg data.  Batista has been seeking to sell stakes, scaling back
projects and reshuffling executive teams at his six publicly
traded energy and commodities companies after rising debt and
missed production targets dimmed confidence among investors. The
billionaire faces demands from creditors to boost collateral on
some debts, people with direct knowledge of the matter told
 Bloomberg News  earlier this month.  The 288 percent jump in OGX’s loaned shares during the past
12 months is the ninth-biggest in the benchmark Bovespa index
and compares with a median increase of 85 percent among the
gauge’s 69 stocks, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Lending
interest in  OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Batista’s shipbuilding and oil
services unit, is about 2.66 million shares, or 3.3 percent of
the estimated free float. The amount reached a record 6.2
million last month. OSX shares  slumped  14 percent to close at a
record low 4.21 reais today.  Traders may borrow shares to conduct a short sale,
implement an arbitrage strategy or fulfill an obligation to
deliver the securities to settle another transaction, according
to the website of  BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , operator of Brazil’s exchange.  Batista replaced five of six chief executive officers at
his publicly traded companies since June and saw his wealth
plunge to $8.9 billion today from a high of $34.5 billion last
March. He has dropped out of the  Bloomberg Billionaires Index  of
the world’s 100 richest people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  Hong Kong  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  