-- Berezovsky Died of Hanging Without Struggle, Police Say
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-03-26T00:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/berezovsky-died-of-hanging-without-struggle-police-say.html
Boris Berezovsky , the Russian
oligarch who was found dead at his U.K. home on March 23, died
from hanging with no evidence of a violent struggle, U.K. police
said.  Berezovsky’s cause of death “is consistent with hanging,”
Thames Valley Police said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.
“The pathologist has found nothing to indicate a violent
struggle.”  The results of additional tests, including toxicology and
histology examinations, won’t be known for several weeks,
according to the statement. The forensic examination of
Berezovsky’s home in Ascot will continue for several days,
according to the statement.  Once a multibillionaire, Berezovsky, 67, faced mounting
debt and last year lost one of the largest U.K. civil lawsuits
ever filed against  Roman Abramovich , the Russian owner of the 
Chelsea Football Club. Berezovsky, the judge said in his ruling 
in August, was “unimpressive and inherently unreliable.”  Georgia Gibbs, a spokeswoman for Berezovsky, declined to
comment yesterday on the police statement.  Berezovsky was found dead by an employee on March 23 in a
bathroom in his home.  The employee said he called the ambulance service after
becoming concerned for Berezovsky’s welfare, having not seen him
since about 10:30 p.m. the previous night, police said in a
statement on March 24. The employee said he forced open the
bathroom door, which was locked from the inside, and discovered
Berezovsky’s body on the floor.  ‘Unexplained’ Death  There is no evidence “at this stage to suggest any third-
party involvement” in the death, which remains “unexplained,”
police said in the March 24 statement.  Berezovsky lived in self-imposed exile in the U.K. to avoid
potential prosecution in  Russia . Once a close patron of Russian
power as a friend of  Boris Yeltsin , he sparred publicly in
recent years with President  Vladimir Putin .  Berezovsky fled Russia for the U.K. in 2000 after backing
Putin in his first presidential campaign. He was given political
asylum three years later. Berezovsky said in a 2007 interview
that he was worth $4 billion and that he was using a part of his
fortune to finance “a revolution in Russia without blood.”
Forbes magazine dropped the tycoon from its rich list in 2010,
after estimating his wealth at $1 billion the previous year.  During the Yeltsin era, Berezovsky built his political
influence, serving as Security Council deputy secretary in 1996
to 1997 and as a lawmaker in 1999 to 2000. He gained holdings of
companies including OAO Aeroflot, Russia’s biggest airline,
state-run television channel ORT and the Kommersant publishing
house. He claimed stakes in OAO Sibneft, the oil producer now
named  OAO Gazprom Neft (GAZP) , and Russian Aluminum, now part of fellow
billionaire  Oleg Deripaska ’s United Co. Rusal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  