-- Bernanke Says Easing by Advanced Nations Helps World Economy
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2013-03-25T18:41:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/bernanke-says-easing-by-advanced-nations-helps-world-economy.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said low interest rates in advanced nations benefit the
world economy while not creating a disruptive diversion of trade
through weaker currencies.  “The benefits of monetary accommodation in the advanced
economies are not created in any significant way by changes in
exchange rates,” Bernanke said today at the  London School  of
Economics. “They come instead from the support for domestic
aggregate demand in each country or region,” he said, speaking
on a panel with  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King .  While the  U.S. economy  is completing its fourth year of
expansion, inflation persists below the Fed’s 2 percent target
and growth hasn’t been strong enough to achieve the significant
reduction in unemployment that Bernanke says is needed before he
begins to withdraw stimulus.  The  unemployment rate  last month stood at 7.7 percent, and
the personal consumption expenditures price index rose just 1.2
percent in January. New York Fed President  William Dudley  said
today in a speech in New York that he sees the U.S. labor market
improving slowing, warranting a continuation of “very
accommodative” policy. U.S. central bankers cut the benchmark
lending rate to zero in December 2008.  The Fed’s “artificially low” main interest rate has put
upward pressure on several currencies, threatening to erode the
competitiveness of those nations’ economies, Mohamed El-Erian,
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s chief executive officer,
said on March 15.  Forced Cuts  “Ultimately, they are forced --  Mexico  has been forced,
Brazil has been forced,  Korea  has been forced,  Japan  has been
forced -- into doing exactly the same thing” as the Fed, El-
Erian said during his speech in Stanford, California.  Bernanke said the distinction between policies aimed at
reviving growth versus those aimed at trade diversion, exchange
rate devaluations “or other protectionist measures is
critical.”  The Fed chairman said  emerging markets  may be
understandably wary of monetary easing in advanced economies
because an appreciation of their own currencies may undermine an
export-led growth strategy. Also, their smaller financial
systems may be vulnerable to inflows of capital seeking higher
interest rates, producing asset price bubbles.  Still, the trade-weighted real exchange rates of emerging
market economies, “with some exceptions,” haven’t changed much
since the financial crisis in late 2008, Bernanke said.  Competitive ‘Drag’  “Even if the expansionary policies of the advanced
economies were to lead to significant currency appreciation in
emerging markets, the resulting drag on their competitiveness
would have to be balanced against the positive effects of
stronger advanced-economy demand,” he said.  Stocks slid, erasing early gains, amid concern that
Cyprus’s bank-restructuring plan will pave the way for losses on
deposits in other European nations.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent to
1,552.61 at 2:35 p.m., after climbing as high as 1,564.91,
within one point of its 2007 record close. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note declined one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 1.92 percent.  Mexico’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate this month for the first time since 2009, while
 Haruhiko Kuroda , the new  Bank of Japan (8301)  governor, has pledged to
do more to beat deflation.  Support Recovery  “The advanced industrial economies are currently pursuing
appropriately expansionary policies to help support recovery and
price stability in their own countries,” Bernanke said in his
prepared remarks. “These policies confer net benefits on the
world economy as a whole and should not be confused with zero-or
negative-sum policies of trade diversion.”  Bernanke also said he was “skeptical” that interest rate
differentials were the “dominant force” behind capital inflows
into emerging economies. Differences in growth prospects and
swings in investor risk sentiment “seem to have played a larger
role.”  “The fact that some emerging market economies have
policies that depress the values of their currencies may create
an expectation of future appreciation that in and of itself
induces speculative inflows,” he said.  Bernanke and his policy making colleagues last week decided
to press on with purchases of long-term debt that have ballooned
the Fed’s balance sheet to a record $3.21 trillion.  Road Map  At a March 20 press conference, Bernanke provided a clearer
road map than ever before on what’s needed before the Fed trims
its purchases, while avoiding any hint that a cut in $85 billion
in monthly bond buying is imminent. The  central bank  will adjust
buying in a “sensitive way” based on several measures,
including payrolls, wages and jobless claims, he said.  In a statement before Bernanke’s press conference, the
 Federal Open Market Committee  reiterated its plan to leave its
key  interest rate  near zero as long as unemployment remains
above 6.5 percent and the outlook for inflation is less than 2.5
percent.  The FOMC said it plans each month to continue buying $40
billion of mortgage-backed securities and $45 billion of
 Treasury securities .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  