-- Best Buy Founder Schulze Returns as Chairman Emeritus
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-03-25T20:13:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/best-buy-founder-schulze-returns-as-chairman-emeritus.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard Schulze will return to the company as chairman emeritus after
failing in a six-month attempt to take over the electronics
retailer he started more than four decades ago.  Schulze also nominated former Best Buy chief executive
officer Brad Anderson and former vice chairman Al Lenzmeier to
the retailer’s board, the Richfield, Minnesota-based company
said today in a statement. Anderson and Lenzmeier, both allies
of Schulze, join the board immediately and will stand for
election at the annual meeting in June.  The board position returns Schulze, 72, to the company
after he resigned in June amid a probe that found he failed to
report allegations of inappropriate conduct by the CEO at the
time. While Schulze first proposed acquiring Best Buy in August
and studied the books for months, he was unable to line up debt
and equity financing by a Feb. 28 offer deadline, people
familiar with the matter have said.  “The board is ready to focus on turning Best Buy around
without the distractions of the Schulze takeover sideshow,”
Erik Gordon, a law and business professor at the University of
Michigan in Ann Arbor, said today in an e-mail.  Best Buy rose 1.8 percent to $23.20 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have gained 96 percent this year, the best
performance in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Schulze Pay  Schulze will receive as much as $2.1 million in
compensation for consulting and help in preparing a business
plan in the next 12 months, CEO Hubert Joly said in a letter
filed today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Schulze will receive $150,000 in annual salary, with no bonus,
as chairman emeritus.  Among his duties, Schulze will make speeches for Best Buy
and participate in training, including at Best Buy’s Leadership
Institute, and mentor as many as two “high-potential”
officers, Joly said. Schulze will meet regularly with Joly and
receive monthly and quarterly updates of financial results.  Schulze will get an office for life at Best Buy’s
headquarters and will notify Joly in advance of visits there,
according to the letter.  Schulze’s appointment suggests he “is unlikely to sell his
20 percent stake in the company at any point in the near
future,” Alan Rifkin, an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc. in
New York, wrote today in a note. His return “is likely to be a
huge morale boost” at the corporate offices and in stores,
where he was popular among employees, said Rifkin, who rates
Best Buy shares overweight, the equivalent of a buy.  Expanded Board  In the August agreement that gave Schulze access to its
financial data, Best Buy committed to expand its  board  and offer
Schulze two seats if he refrained from going directly to
shareholders with a proposal and didn’t violate standstill
provisions between the two parties.  Schulze’s August proposal entailed buying Best Buy for $24
to $26 a share. He and private-equity investors later scaled
back those ambitions, seeking three board seats in return for a
minority stake.  Best Buy turned down offers from private-equity suitors
because the investments would have diluted existing investors,
CEO Hubert Joly told analysts on March 1. Schulze was working
with Cerberus Capital Management LP, TPG Capital and Leonard
Green & Partners, people familiar with the talks have said.  Schulze, still Best Buy’s largest shareholder with a more
than 20 percent stake, said after the deadline lapsed he hadn’t
decided whether to exercise his right to appoint two nominees to
the board.  Schulze said in a filing that he “believes the company
deserves a chance to implement its own plan.”  Joly, who took charge in September, has closed stores, cut
jobs and matched online rivals’ prices to stabilize sales and
curb costs amid rising competition from Amazon.com Inc. and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. Best Buy posted fiscal fourth-quarter adjusted
profit that topped analysts’ estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  