-- Billionaire Bankers Torch Bondholders With $19 Peru Loans
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   E m e r y   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2013-03-25T11:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/billionaire-bankers-torch-bondholders-with-19-peru-loans.html
The billionaire Romero family’s
strategy to lure more first-time banking customers among lower-
income Peruvians is coming at a cost to its creditors.  The yield on 2027 bonds issued by Romero’s  Banco de Credito
del Peru (CREDITC1)  rose 0.41 percentage point to 5.01 percent in the two
months since reporting quarterly earnings that  missed  analyst
estimates on higher loan-loss provisions and expenses. That’s
the biggest increase among major Peruvian banks and three times
the average jump in yields for emerging-market financial bonds
tracked by Bank of America Corp in the same span.  The Romero family, which tapped  Latin America ’s fastest
economic growth in the past decade to build Banco de Credito
into  Peru ’s biggest lender, wants to double the number of
branches in five years to capitalize on surging demand for
microfinance with loans of as little as 50 soles ($19) that
carry interest rates of as high as 25 percent. Banco de
Credito’s push for new clients in a nation where only a quarter
of the population has bank accounts has caused non-performing
loans to increase at double the pace as total lending.  “Their asset-quality decline is the result of expanding
more into retail and microfinance,”  Diego Alcazar , a banking
analyst at  Fitch Ratings , said by telephone March 22. “Quality
will continue to deteriorate as past-due loan ratios in those
segments are higher.”  ‘Cost Expansion’  The percentage of Banco de Credito’s loans that are past
due rose to 1.78 in the fourth quarter from 1.53 a year ago,
higher than the industry average of 1.75.  While Banco de Credito’s non-performing loans jumped 44
percent in the fourth quarter from a year ago, Scotiabank Peru
SA, the third-largest bank, reported a 17 percent rise. The
fastest-growing segment was microfinance at 47 percent.  The unit of Lima-based  Credicorp Ltd. (BAP)  plans to reach 760
branches by 2018 from 365 last year, Chief Financial Officer
Alvaro Correa said in a Feb. 5 conference call.  The bank is pursuing “business expansion on all fronts
with the increase in costs this entails,” Correa said at the
time. “The main challenges have been risk management and
increased provisioning for cost expansion.”  Banco de Credito contributed 11.4 percent less to its
parent company’s earnings in the quarter after Credicorp last
year split off its investment banking arm into a separate
division, merging it with the  IM Trust (INDICE)  and Correval brokerages.  ‘Rising Costs’  “The bank has an issue with rising costs as they invest in
systems and new branches,” Luis Manuel Ordonez, an analyst at
Inteligo SAB, said in a telephone interview. “This could have
an impact on its performance.”  The yield on BCP’s 2027 dollar notes, rated BBB by Fitch,
rose to 5.01 percent on March 22 from 4.61 percent on Jan. 25, a
day after the bank reported earnings. That included a 0.4
percentage point surge in the five days after the parent
company’s Feb. 5 conference call.  In the same two-month period, the yield on Credit Suisse
Group AG’s index of Latin American bank bonds rose to 4.43
percent from 4.17 percent while Bank of America’s global banking
index increase to 3.97 percent from 3.84 percent.  The bank’s closest competitors, a unit of  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria  and Banco Internacional del Peru, saw yields
rise 26 and 28 basis points in the same period, respectively.  Bond Sale  Besides banking, the Romero group owns stakes in food
manufacturer  Alicorp SA (ALICORC1)  and port operators Tisur and Ransa, as
well as investments in gasoline stations, ethanol,  palm oil ,
shipping, fishing, telecommunications and real estate.  As of Feb. 13, 2012, the family owned 14.2 percent of
Credicorp, according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The family also has 7.8 percent of
Alicorp’s voting shares, according to the company’s website.  Banco de Credito, which increased profit 10-fold over the
past decade, plans to sell bonds in Chile, Colombia and  Asia 
this year to sustain loan growth, Chief Executive Officer Walter Bayly said in a Nov. 13 interview. Infrastructure projects,
plant expansions and mortgage demand will fuel lending growth
this year, Bayly said at the time. Corporate loans make up a
quarter of Banco de Credito’s lending.  Banco de Credito had 53.6 billion soles of outstanding
loans at the end of 2012, equivalent to 37 percent of all bank
credit. Total lending in Peru rose 13 percent to 144.2 billion
soles, according to the Banking Association.  ‘Significant Flows’  “The capacity this group has to assign considerable funds
to these investments is greater” than its rivals, Hugo Cussato,
director at Lima-based rating firm Apoyo & Asociados
Internacionales, said by telephone. “This is an investment in
operating capacity that in coming years will start to generate
significant flows.”  The 2027 notes have slumped because of their subordinated
status after rating firms downgraded subordinated debt issued by
some financial companies globally on a change in methodology,
CFO Correa said in an e-mailed response to questions.  “It has absolutely nothing to do with expansion plans,
profitability or past-due loans,” he said.  Banco de Credito plans to sell as much as $400 million in
senior notes due 2023, according to a filing with Peru’s
securities regulator.  Peru, forecast by the central bank to grow a region-beating
6.3 percent this year, earned a BBB rating in 2011 from  Standard
& Poor’s  and Baa2 from Moody’s last year, the second-lowest
investment grade levels.  Record Investment  The Andean country, the world’s third-largest copper and
zinc producer and No. 1 in fishmeal, has lined up a record $53
billion in mining investment commitments and $20 billion in
energy projects over the next decade, according to the Energy &
Mines Ministry.  Peru’s currency strengthened 0.1 percent to 2.589 per  U.S.
dollar  on March 22. The yield on Peru’s benchmark 7.84 percent
sol-denominated bond due in August 2020 was little changed at
3.80 percent. The yield on its 7.35 percent dollar bond due July
2025 fell two basis points to 3.35 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own Peruvian dollar
bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped five basis points to
143 basis points at 7:20 a.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  The cost to protect Peruvian debt against nonpayment for
five years with credit-default swaps was little changed at 95
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  ‘Still Optimism’  Banco de Credito will see lending slow after the central
bank increased  reserve requirements  for banks seven times over
the past year in a bid to temper the sol’s gains, said Javier Frisancho, a trader at Lima-based Kallpa Securities SAB. CFO
Correa forecast last month loan growth of 16.3 percent this year
after a 23.1 percent expansion in 2012.  “There’s still optimism for the growth outlook,”
Frisancho said in a telephone interview. “But there will be
somewhat of a deceleration.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  