-- Billionaire Sees Profit as Gas Shortage Worsens: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2013-03-26T07:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/billionaire-sees-profit-as-gas-shortage-worsens-corporate-india.html
India’s  JSW Group (SWH) , controlled by
the billionaire Jindal family, plans to spend 40 billion rupees
($736 million) to build its first liquefied gas terminal as
sliding output at home spurs demand for imports of the fuel.  JSW Infrastructure Ltd ., a closely held builder of ports in
which Eton Park Capital Management LP owns 10 percent, is
seeking government approval to set up the regasification unit in
Jaigarh on the west coast, 356 kilometers (211 miles) south of
Mumbai, B.V.J.K. Sharma, joint managing director at the company
said in an interview. The facility, expected to be operational
by December 2016, will be operated by a partner, he said.  JSW is joining  Oil & Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) , India’s biggest
energy explorer, and Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest
refiner, to announce plans for such terminals as demand surges
for gas used by  power plants  and fertilizer makers. Domestic
output in  Asia ’s second-biggest fossil fuel consumer, has
declined every month since November 2010 as the biggest field
operated by billionaire  Mukesh Ambani ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) 
yields less, making the case for higher imports to stoke growth.  “Considering the kind of energy requirement the country
will have, which is very high, this is going to happen all over
India,” Sharma said in the interview. “We are in the process
of environmental clearance after which we will build it.”  Demand Doubling  India’s gas demand is projected to double to 2.4
quadrillion British thermal units by 2020, from 1.2 quadrillion
Btu in 2012, according to U.S. Energy Information Administration
data. The infrastructure to handle imports will be crucial to
help revive the $1.8 trillion economy, No. 3 in Asia, from its
slowest pace of growth in a decade.  Natural gas production in India declined 14 percent to 37.5
billion cubic meters in the 11 months ended Feb. 28, according
to oil ministry data. The fall in output, combined with a coal
shortage worsened by mining curbs to protect the environment, is
threatening Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s plans to boost
electricity generation.  Rising costs of imported coal due to increase in levies in
 Indonesia , small size of renewable energy projects and falling
domestic natural gas production continue to throw fuel sourcing
challenge for centralized power generation given the consumer
tariffs, said Sandeep Kumar Mohanty, senior consultant at
PriceWaterhouseCoopers in  New Delhi .  Mid-term Option  “LNG, although not cheap, will emerge as mid-term option
to fulfill the growing needs of the country of fuel for
chemicals and petrochemicals industry, and feed stock for
fertilizer sector,” Mohanty said. “A number of developed
countries like  South Korea ,  Japan , U.K.,  France ,  Italy ,  Taiwan 
and  Spain  import significant quantum of gas or LNG to meet their
growing needs.”  A peak shortfall of 9 percent in electricity supplies leads
to blackouts that shave about 1.2 percentage points off economic
growth, according to government estimates. About 13,000
megawatts of gas-based capacity is under construction at various
stages, for which fuel supply needs to be secured, according to
a report by the nation’s Planning Commission, which assesses and
allocates resources.  “Availability of gas for power generation is a big issue
which needs to be addressed,” according to the Commission. ‘If
gas availability to projects already under construction is not
ensured, it may become stranded assets and should be avoided.”  Battling Slump  Reliance is battling to reverse a three-year slump at
Krishna-Godavari gas basin and is spending about $1 million a
day with partner BP Plc to look for new reserves more than a
mile below its biggest field, a person with direct knowledge of
the matter said this month. The two companies plan to spend more
than $5 billion in five years to develop discovered gas deposits
in the KG-D6 block off  India ’s east coast.  India’s natural gas output fell 20 percent last month from
last year, according to a government statement on the Press
Information Bureau website.  A group led by ONGC on March 19 signed an agreement with
Mangalore Port Trust to build a LNG import terminal in the
western coastal city in Karnataka state. The facility, which
will process inbound shipments for local use, will have a
capacity of as much as 3 million metric tons a year and can be
expanded to 5 million tons.  Indian Oil’s plant at Ennore in the east coast will start
in 2016 with a capacity of 5 million tons and expand to 10
million tons in 2022, Aditya Singhal, manager of business
development, said March 7.  Can’t Afford  “The viability of all the planned LNG import terminals in
India will depend on the price at which gas is available,” said
Gagan Dixit, a Mumbai-based analyst with Quant Broking Pvt.  Power and fertilizer companies, which use more than 60
percent of gas, can’t afford to pay more than $12 per million
British thermal units because the retail prices of electricity
and urea are controlled by the government, Dixit said.  “All these LNG terminals can be built but developers may
have trouble ensuring long-term demand,” Dixit said.  Japan paid $16.32 per million Btu for LNG imported in
January, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Imports last
year were at an average $16.70 per million Btu.  India has three operational gas import terminals operated
by  Petronet LNG Ltd. (PLNG) , Royal Dutch Shell Plc and Total SA. and
GAIL India Ltd., all on the western coast. They have a total
capacity of 18.6 million tons a year. Petronet is scheduled to
start another terminal with 5 million tons capacity this year at
Kochi in the southern state of Kerala.  Deterring Investment  The nation’s LNG receiving capacity will reach 71.5 million
tons by 2022, Indian Oil’s Singhal said. India will become the
third-biggest LNG importer by 2025, behind Japan and  China , BG
Group Plc Chief Executive Officer Chris Finlayson said March 20.  Ambiguity over supply and pricing of natural gas, the main
feedstock used in producing urea, a fertilizer controlled by the
government, have deterred new investments in the sector for more
than 10 years, leading to an increase in imports and state
subsidies.  A new policy assuring urea units a profit margin of 12
percent to 20 percent may prompt Aditya Birla Nuvo Ltd., Tata
Chemicals Ltd. and rivals to invest $9 billion to increase
nation’s urea capacity by almost 50 percent. Supply of gas will
be key in ensuring spending in the fertilizer industry,
according to a separate Planning Commission report.  JSW Infrastructure’s Jaigarh port that started operations
in August 2009, aims to handle about 100 million tons of cargo
including gas, thermal and metallurgical coal, bauxite,  iron ore 
and fertilizer by 2020 up from about 8 million tons this year,
Sharma said. The company, led by Sajjan Jindal, aims to bring
large-capacity capesize vessels that would bring economies of
scale, he said.  Sharma declined to elaborate on financing of the liquefied
natural gas terminal near the port.  “There is an increased focus on creating infrastructure,
which will need us to import energy including gas,” Sharma said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at   jrogers73@bloomberg.net  