-- Blank Rome, Fish, Nixon Peabody, Sidley: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/blank-rome-fish-nixon-peabody-sidley-business-of-law.html
Pennsylvania ’s Department of
Environmental Protection Secretary Mike Krancer will step down
April 15 to rejoin his former  law firm , Blank Rome LLP in
Philadelphia, where he will head the firm’s energy,
petrochemical and natural resources practice.  Krancer will advise U.S. and global energy clients on
legal, public policy, government relations, state and federal
regulatory, financial, corporate, and labor matters.  “Michael’s practical experience at the highest levels of
strategic state and federal government policy making and
government relations will significantly enhance our
capabilities, particularly regarding the Marcellus and Utica
Shale Plays and, accordingly, we expect he will be spending a
lot of time in western Pennsylvania,” Alan J. Hoffman, Blank
Rome co-chairman and managing partner, said in a statement.  Krancer was a partner at Blank Rome from 1992 to 1999. He
left the firm to become judge and chief judge of Pennsylvania’s
Environmental Hearing Board, the statewide trial/appellate court
for environmental matters involving appeals from actions of the
DEP. He returned to the board in 2009 after a run for justice of
the Pennsylvania Supreme Court and a position as associate
general counsel of  Exelon Corp. (EXC) , the firm said. Krancer was
appointed secretary of the DEP in January 2011.  “Secretary Krancer has been an invaluable member of our
team and I am grateful for his service,” Pennsylvania Governor
Tom Corbett said in a statement. “His impressive efforts at DEP
have taken the agency back to basics, protecting the environment
and making the permitting process more efficient.  Among the initiatives that Krancer oversaw were the
reorganization of the agency, which created an oil and gas
division and improved statewide enforcement of that industry’s
regulations, the firm said. Krancer also oversaw the permit
review process and permit decision guarantee.  Blank Rome has more than 500 attorneys at 12 offices in the
U.S. and  Asia .  Moves  Fish & Richardson Adds Litigator Thomas C. Frongillo  Thomas C. Frongillo, most recently head of the litigation
practice at Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP’s  Boston  office and co-
chairman of the firm’s national white-collar defense and
investigations practice group, joined Fish & Richardson PC as a
principal in its commercial litigation group.  Frongillo is a former assistant U.S. attorney for the
District of  Massachusetts  with more than 30 years of litigation
experience. He will represent clients in white-collar criminal
prosecutions, corporate and regulatory investigations, and
complex commercial litigation, the firm said.  “We are very excited to welcome Tom into our growing
commercial litigation group. While Fish is well known for doing
more patent litigation than any other firm, we also have a top-
notch business litigation practice that handles high profile,
make-or-break your company litigation,” Ann Cathcart Chaplin,
litigation practice group leader at Fish, said in a statement.
“Bringing on a significant lateral hire like Tom, who is so
highly regarded, will be tremendously valuable to our clients
and our team.”  Fish & Richardson has more than 400 attorneys and
technology specialists practicing IP strategy and counseling, IP
litigation, and commercial litigation in 12 offices in the U.S.
and Munich.  Middlesex, Massachusetts, D.A. Leone to Join Nixon Peabody  Gerry Leone,  District Attorney  of  Middlesex County ,
Massachusetts, will join Nixon Peabody LLP as partner in the
firm’s government investigations and white-collar defense
practice in Boston.  As district attorney, Leone prosecutions include  Richard
Reid , convicted of trying to detonate a shoe bomb aboard a
 passenger jet  in 2001, and British nanny Louise Woodward, who
was accused of killing eight-month-old Matthew Eappen, as well
as members of the Massachusetts state treasury who stole $9.7
million in taxpayer monies, the firm said.  “In addition to Gerry’s stellar credentials as a
prosecutor and trial attorney, his energy, innovative spirit,
and collaborative approach is an excellent fit with our firm’s
culture and priorities,” Andrew I. Glincher, chief executive
officer and managing partner of Nixon Peabody, said in a
statement.  Prior to his election as district attorney, Leone was first
assistant U.S. attorney in the District of Massachusetts,
managing the office and conducting federal and international
investigations and including public corruption, health-care
fraud and cybercrime, the firm said. Before joining the U.S.
attorney’s office, Leone was the chief of the criminal bureau
for the Massachusetts attorney general’s office where he oversaw
the investigation and prosecution of statewide cases ranging
from economic crime and corruption to environmental enforcement,
according to the firm.  Nixon Peabody has approximately 700 attorneys throughout
the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Haynes & Boone Expands New York Financial Services Platform  Todd Ransom rejoins Haynes & Boone LLP as a partner in the
firm’s prime brokerage and equity lending practice group, a
specialized practice focused on leveraged and derivative
products and brokerage transactions used by financial
institutions and private and public funds. He was previously an
in-house counsel for Bank of America Corp.  “Not only does he bring strong experience in prime
brokerage and margin transactions, Todd is also well-versed in
an array of financial products and structures that are integral
in the businesses of our buy- and sell-side clients,” Craig
Unterberg, head of the prime brokerage and equity lending
practice group, said in a statement.  Ransom concentrates his practice in the areas of finance
and energy, including representation of  hedge funds , private
equity firms, investment banks and other financial institutions.
He also represents private equity firms, financial institutions,
and energy companies in connection with energy asset
acquisitions, divestitures and financing arrangements, the firm
said.  Haynes and Boone LLP has more than 525 attorneys at 12
offices in the Americas.  News  Dead Hermitage Lawyer’s Court-Named Attorney Asks to Quit Trial  A court-appointed lawyer criticized the tax-evasion trial
of Hermitage Capital Management tax and legal adviser Sergei Magnitsky, who died in prison in 2009, and asked to be removed
from the case.  Tverskoi District Court Judge Igor Alisov rejected attorney
Nikolai Gerasimov’s request March 22 to step down on the basis
that Magnitsky’s mother didn’t want to mount a defense.  “There’s no justification for pursuing the prosecution of
Magnitsky,” Gerasimov told the court in Moscow, adding that he
wanted the judge to reconsider “my presence in this case.”  Magnitsky was in pretrial detention after alleging the
biggest-known  tax fraud  in  Russia , a theft of $230 million from
the national treasury. The case sparked a diplomatic row, with
the U.S. imposing sanctions on Russian officials accused of
playing a role in his death and Moscow retaliating by barring
American citizens from adopting Russian orphans.  Alisov also rejected two other demands by Gerasimov and the
court-appointed lawyer for Hermitage founder  William Browder ,
who’s on trial in absentia. They asked him to replace the chief
prosecutor because he refused to give them enough time to study
the case and for the  Constitutional Court  to review the case.  Browder has denied any wrongdoing by either himself or
Magnitsky. He has lobbied for U.S. and European legislation
targeting 60 Russian officials who he says are responsible for
Magnitsky’s death with visa bans and asset freezes. Hermitage
was once Russia’s biggest foreign-equity investor.  Russia ended its investigation last week into Magnitsky’s
November 2009 death at age 37 in a Moscow jail, saying it found
no sign he had suffered physical abuse while he was detained.  For more, click here.  Firm News  Sidley’s Thayer Named West Coast IP Litigation Head  M. Patricia Thayer has been appointed head of Sidley Austin
LLP’s intellectual property litigation practice on the West
Coast. Thayer, a patent trial lawyer, will lead the firm’s West
Coast practice of approximately 25 lawyers, the firm said. She
will also continue in her role as a coordinator of Sidley’s
global IP litigation practice, which has more than 95 lawyers.  “With more than three decades of practice, Patty is known
for leading trial teams in difficult, high-stakes patent
litigation matters, which makes her a natural for this
position,” Anne E. Rea, partner and the member of the firm’s
management committee with primary responsibility for Sidley’s
West Coast offices, said in a statement.  Thayer succeeds Ed Poplawski, who previously led the
practice in  Los Angeles  and is leaving the firm, Sidley said.
The firm didn’t reply to an e-mail request for further
information about Poplawski’s departure.  Sidley has approximately 1,700 lawyers in 18 offices
worldwide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  