-- Boeing Tests 787 Fix With Japan Customers First in Line
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2013-03-25T23:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/boeing-moves-toward-battery-fix-approval-with-787-flight.html
Boeing Co. (BA)  plans a final 787 test
flight in “coming days” after taking the grounded Dreamliner
aloft yesterday to evaluate fixes to lithium-ion batteries that
overheated on two aircraft earlier this year.  If the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  approves the
changes and allows the airplane to resume commercial flights,
Chicago-based Boeing would make the battery upgrades to aircraft
in roughly the order that they were delivered to customers, said
 Marc Birtel , a Boeing spokesman. That would put All Nippon
Airways Co. and  Japan  Airlines Co. first in line.  The two carriers, which together own about half of the 49
Dreamliners in operation, have been forced along with other
customers to juggle schedules and shift planes since the FAA
sidelined the jet in January. Boeing, which has a backlog of
more than 800 Dreamliners with a list price starting at about
 $207 million , has halted deliveries until commercial service
resumes.  After analyzing data from the March 25 flight, Boeing will
perform ground testing followed by one certification
demonstration flight. The Chicago-based company then will submit
the new battery system to the FAA for approval, Birtel said in
an interview.  Yesterday’s 787 flight lasted a little more than two hours
after taking off at 12:11 p.m. local time from Paine Field in
Everett,  Washington , with a crew of six. Birtel declined to give
more information on the timing of the next flight.  No Cause  Boeing has climbed  9.2 percent  since Jan. 4, the last
trading day before the first of the battery faults under review.
The stock closed yesterday at $84.85 in  New York .  Although a cause for the lithium-ion battery malfunctions
hasn’t been determined, Boeing said during a March 15
presentation that the changes to the design and added
safeguards, such as a new enclosure and a vent line, will ensure
safety.  The 787’s batteries are mostly used for ground operations,
such as starting auxiliary power units and providing brake power
when the plane is in tow, and are not flight critical, Boeing
has said.  The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board began looking
at the batteries after one caught fire on a Japan Airlines 787
parked at  Boston ’s airport on Jan. 7. A little more than a week
later, a battery on an All Nippon Airways flight began
smoldering and spewing smoke in Japan, prompting an emergency
landing and the FAA’s decision to halt commercial service.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  