-- BofA’s Samuels Said Among Global Equity Sales Staff Leaving
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2013-03-25T16:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/bofa-s-samuels-said-among-staff-to-depart-at-global-equity-sales.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Ben
Samuels, head of a global equities sales desk in London, was
among employees who left amid cuts at the company’s investment
bank this month, said two people with knowledge of the moves.  Samuels, a managing director, as well as Bruce Robb, who
was on a similar team based in  New York , were among people to go
in the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank’s latest job cuts,
said the people, who asked for anonymity because the moves were
private. The global equities desks identify promising stocks for
institutional clients regardless of where they are listed,
unlike teams focusing on U.S., European or Asian companies.  Bank of America cut more than 30  employees  from trading and
sales this month to lower costs while pursuing selective hires,
said the people. The equities staff was harder hit by
terminations than other areas, said another person with
knowledge of the actions. Revenue from equities sales and
trading declined 24 percent last year to $3 billion, while
fixed-income, currency and commodities trading sales were almost
unchanged at $8.8 billion.  James Davidson, a managing director on the  London  equity
sales team, left Bank of America this month for a position at an
institutional investor, the people said. Samuels, Robb and
Davidson didn’t respond to inquiries seeking comment from them
on their office and mobile phones. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of
America spokeswoman, said the company had no comment.  Matthew Montana, a managing director who ran international
equities trading from New York, also left, the people said last
week. The bank eliminated the position held by Matthew Unsworth,
head of Australian equities in Sydney, said a person with
knowledge of that decision. Equities trading, sales and risk
personnel in  Australia  now report to managers in  Hong Kong .  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 53, has targeted
retail banking more than trading to reduce headcount as he seeks
to eliminate $8 billion in annual costs. The firm’s staff shrank
by 14,601 people in 2012, leaving 267,190 workers at year’s end,
according to figures it released in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  