-- BOJ Bond-Buying Plan Seen Boosting Treasuries: Chart of the Day
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/boj-bond-buying-plan-seen-boosting-treasuries-chart-of-the-day.html
The biggest difference in yields
between U.S. and Japanese 30-year government debt in almost two
years suggests Treasury bonds may be among the biggest winners
if the  Bank of Japan (8301)  begins buying longer-maturity securities.  The bottom panel of the CHART OF THE DAY shows the spread
earlier this month reached its largest since August 2011. The
gap widened as the yield on the Japanese securities known as
JGBs, the orange line in the top panel, slid to a two-and-a-
half-year low amid speculation central-bank steps will include
purchases of longer-term debt. The yield was 1.62 percent on
March 22, while the U.S. 30-year bond, the white line, yielded
3.15 percent.  “Assuming the BOJ does buy longer-term debt and JGB yields
move even lower, domestic investors will look desperately
elsewhere to try and generate some income,” said  Marc Ostwald ,
a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in  London .
“These investors, who own 92 percent of the JGB market, will
have extra cash after the sales to the central bank and may buy
U.S. 30-year debt, given yields are at over 3 percent. This will
put a big cap on the U.S. 30-year yield.”  Bank of  Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said in his
inaugural press conference March 21 that he will do whatever he
can to achieve a 2 percent inflation target as soon as possible
and reiterated prior comments that purchases of longer-term debt
would help reach that goal.  The Bank of Japan currently purchases government bonds with
maturities of up to three years, as well as exchange-traded
funds, real-estate investment trusts and other risk assets,
through a fund targeted to reach 76 trillion yen ($800 billion)
by the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  