-- Cameron Pledges Welfare, Housing Curbs for Immigrants
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-25T13:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cameron-to-pledge-curbs-on-welfare-housing-nhs-for-immigrants.html
U.K. Prime Minister David Cameron
announced plans to curb access to welfare, housing and free
health care for non-Britons, as political parties jostle to
persuade voters they understand concerns over mass immigration.  Cameron set out measures today to restrict the rights of
foreigners to claim unemployment benefits after six months. He
said local governments will be expected to make at least two
years’ local residence a requirement for qualifying for social
housing, and the state-run National Health Service will be
stricter about charging to treat foreigners who are in the U.K.
temporarily.  With Britain’s economy stagnating, politicians of all
stripes have been seeking to assuage voter concerns about
immigration’s possible effects on the labor market, public
services and housing. Cameron’s Conservative Party came third in
a House of Commons special election in Eastleigh last month
behind the anti-immigration U.K. Independence Party. The premier
says he wants to cut net annual immigration below 100,000.  “I have always understood the genuine concerns of hard
working people, including many in our migrant communities, who
worry about uncontrolled immigration,” Cameron said in a speech
in Ipswich, eastern  England . “The pressure it puts on public
services, the rapid pace of change in some of our communities,
and of course the concerns, deeply held, that some people might
be able to come and take advantage of our generosity without
making a proper contribution.”  Unemployment Benefit  As part of the measures the premier announced today,
citizens of other European Union countries and some other
western European nations will only be able to claim six months’
unemployment benefit from next year unless they can show they
have a genuine chance of finding work. Temporary migrants from
outside those countries may need private health insurance to
qualify for NHS treatment.  “Ending the something-for-nothing culture needs to apply
to immigration as well as welfare,” Cameron said. “We should
be clear that what we have is a free National Health Service,
not a free International Health Service.”  The opposition Labour Party called earlier this month for
greater restrictions on benefit payments to European immigrants.
Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, who leads Cameron’s Liberal
Democrat coalition partners, said last week that “high-risk”
immigrants from outside the EU should be required to post a bond
to ensure they abide by their visa conditions.  ‘Right Reasons’  “What we can do is make sure that those who come here from
the EU -- or further afield -- do so for the right reasons,”
Cameron said. “That they come here because they want to
contribute to our country, not because they are drawn by the
attractiveness of our benefits system or by the opportunity to
use our public services.”  Restrictions on nationals from Bulgaria and  Romania  -- the
most recent EU members -- working in Britain will be lifted next
year. Labour has attacked Cameron’s government for failing to
release estimates of how many migrants will arrive. Far more
people from the eight Eastern European countries that joined the
EU in 2004 arrived in Britain than the-then Labour government
forecast.  The number of Romanians and Bulgarians moving to Britain
may hit 50,000 a year following the relaxation of controls,
Migrationwatch, a pressure group, said in January. Cameron said
net migration to Britain totaled more than 2.2 million people
between 1997 and 2009, more than twice the population of
Birmingham, the second-biggest city.  ‘No Account’  “You can’t control immigration if you have a welfare
system that takes no account of who it is paying out to,”
Cameron said. “You can’t control immigration if you have a
health-care system that takes no account of the people using it.
And you can’t control immigration if you have a housing policy
that doesn’t take account of how long people have lived and
contributed to a local area.”  The prime minister also announced measures to clamp down on
illegal immigration. The maximum penalty for businesses that
employ illegal workers will be doubled to 20,000 pounds
($30,000), and there will be a legal requirement for landlords
to check the migration status of new tenants. He said the
government is legislating to ensure illegal immigrants can’t get
driver’s licenses and is working with the finance industry to
stop them getting credit cards and loans and opening bank
accounts.  ‘Unopened Mail’  “Frankly right now, it’s too easy to be an illegal migrant
in Britain,” Cameron said.  The U.K. Border Agency had a backlog of 312,726 immigration
cases in the three-month period ending in September 2012,
according to a  report published today  by the House of Commons
Home Affairs Committee.  “Successive  UKBA  chief executives have presided over chaos
including 150 boxes of unopened mail, 100,000 unopened letters
and yet another effective amnesty for thousands due to
calamitous inefficiency,” the committee chairman, Labour
lawmaker Keith Vaz, said in an e-mailed statement. “At this
rate it will take 24 years to clear the backlog, which still
stands at the size of the population of Iceland.”  There may be as many as 618,000 illegal immigrants in the
U.K., the panel said, citing research by the London School of
Economics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  