-- Canada Dollar Gains Versus Majors as Oil Rises to 1-Month High
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-03-25T21:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/canadian-dollar-gains-fourth-day-after-cyprus-bailout-deal.html
The Canadian dollar gained against
the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as crude oil, the
nation’s largest export, touched a one-month high after Cyprus
agreed with creditors on a bailout.  Canada ’s dollar pared gains against its U.S. counterpart
after the Dutch finance minister said imposing losses on
depositors and bondholders must be part of the bailout toolkit
after such measures were taken to avoid default in Cyprus.
Canada will report March 28 the economy grew 0.1 percent in
January after contracting the month before, according to a
Bloomberg survey.  “We’ve had a little bit of a relief rally on the fact
we’re not going to get a major implosion on Cyprus today,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-exchange strategy at Canadian
Imperial Bank of Commerce, by phone from  London . “After nine-
consecutive weeks of shorts being extended, I think there’s
potential opportunity, if we do see some slightly firmer numbers
-- particularly in terms of the gross domestic product data on
Thursday -- for perhaps a little bit of a Canadian dollar
recovery.” A short position is a bet an asset’s value will
decrease.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.2 percent to
C$1.0213 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after climbing as
much as 0.4 percent. One loonie buys 97.91 U.S. cents.  Bonds, Oil  Canada’s  benchmark  10-year government bonds rose, with
yields falling one basis point or 0.01 percentage point to 1.82
percent. The 2.75 percent security maturing in June 2022 rose
four cents to trade at C$107.88.  The  Bank of Canada  will hold an auction of 10-year bonds on
March 27.  Crude oil futures gained 1.1 percent to $94.69 per barrel
after touching $95.65, highest since Feb. 20. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks fell 0.3 percent after rising as
much as 0.5 percent.  The loonie advanced versus the dollar of  New Zealand  and
the krone of  Norway , fellow commodity exporting nations, as
Western Canada Select, the benchmark for oil-sands bitumen,
traded at  a discount  of $16.50 to U.S. West Texas Intermediate
price, the lowest since Oct. 17. The discount has fallen from
$42.50 on Dec. 14.  “The problem we’ve got in Canada is that we’re expanding
production but we’ve never bothered to figure out to get it to
market,” Aaron Fennell, a futures specialist at  Bank of Nova
Scotia (BNS) ’s Scotia McLeod unit, said by phone from Toronto.
“That’s slowly working its way through the market -- there’s
all sorts of smaller things being done to improve that.”  ‘Banking Strength’  The loonie gained for a fourth day against the greenback as
Cyprus agreed to wind down its second biggest bank, wiping out
bondholders, and tax uninsured deposits over 100,000 euros
($129,000) at its largest bank to stave off bankruptcy and
prevent a forced exit from the euro.  It pared the advance after Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Dutch
finance chief who heads the euro-area finance group, told
Reuters and the Financial Times that “banks should basically be
able to save themselves” before public money is considered.  “A comment like that, and you basically have no reason to
keep more than 100,000 euros in any bank,” said Adam Button, a
currency analyst at forexlive.com by phone from  Montreal . “If
you’re an international investor, especially in the developing
world, and you need a harbor for your money you’re less likely
to look to  Europe , and Canada’s well known for its banking
strength in the financial crisis. And that’s looking like more
of an asset for the Canadian dollar.”  Net Shorts  Future traders increased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the  U.S. dollar  to the highest level
since March 2007, figures from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission showed last week.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was
65,331 on March 19, compared with net shorts of 53,397 a week
earlier.  The Canadian dollar touched C$1.0342 per U.S. dollar March
1, its weakest point in eight months, and has declined six of
the past seven weeks.  Inflation will have increased in February to  0.7 percent 
from 0.1 percent the month before, below the Bank of Canada’s
target band between one percent and three percent, according to
the median estimate of a Bloomberg survey of 24 economists.  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.1 percent in the past
month against nine other developed-nation currencies tracked by
the Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Index. The U.S. dollar has
gained 0.6 percent and the euro has lost 1.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  