-- Central African Rebel Leader to Maintain Unity Government
-- B y   A n t o i n e   L a w s o n   a n d   C r i s p i n   D e m b a s s a
-- 2013-03-25T16:25:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/central-african-rebel-leader-vows-to-maintain-unity-government.html
Central African Republic  rebel
leader Michel Djotodia vowed to maintain a power-sharing
government after his fighters ousted President Francois Bozize
in clashes in which 13 South African soldiers were killed.  Djotodia, in remarks reported yesterday by Radio  France 
Internationale after his Seleka rebels took control of the
capital, Bangui, said he would keep Nicolas Tiangaye, a former
opposition leader, as prime minister. The  African Union 
suspended the Central African Republic today and said it will
impose travel bans and an asset freeze on Djotodia and six other
Seleka leaders.  “I don’t know how long I will remain in power,” RFI
quoted Djotodia as saying. Within three years, “we will
organize free and transparent elections.”  Bozize, 66, fled after the insurgents seized Bangui. He
arrived yesterday in the Cameroonian border town of Kentzou,
about 392 kilometers (243 miles) east of the capital, Yaounde,
the governor of the East Region, Samuel Dieudonne Ivaha Diboua,
said by telephone today.  He will remain in Cameroon temporarily “pending his
departure to another country,” the secretary-general of the
Cameroon Presidency, Ferdinand Ngoh, said in a statement handed
to reporters in Yaounde.  The African Union’s Peace and  Security Council , in an e-
mailed statement from  Addis Ababa , said member states should
“completely isolate the perpetrators of the unconstitutional
change in the CAR, to deny them sanctuary and cooperation.”  French Military  France condemned the takeover and sent troops to the
country to protect its citizens. About 1,200 French nationals
live in Bangui, Central African Republic’s consul to Gabon,
Claude Ayo-Iguendha, said in an interview in the Gabonese
capital, Libreville.  “France calls on the rebel forces to abstain from all
violence toward civilian populations and foreign communities,”
Foreign Ministry Spokesman Philippe Lalliot said in an e-mailed
statement. “Looting must cease and order must be rapidly
restored.”  The Central African Republic has been plagued by violence
since independence from France in 1960, with at least four
battles for Bangui taking place from 1996 to 2003, when Bozize
toppled predecessor Ange-Felix Patasse, whom he served as army
chief. Seleka began its rebellion in December after accusing
Bozize of failing to honor a 2008 peace accord. An agreement
signed in Libreville in January ended the fighting. The rebels
resumed combat last week after Bozize failed to meet a new set
of demands.  Bangui Battles  South African President  Jacob Zuma  said 13 South African
soldiers were killed in the fighting in Bangui and 27 were
wounded. Clashes between 200 South African troops and about
1,000 rebels lasted nine hours, he told reporters today in
 Pretoria , the nation’s capital.  Soldiers from the Congo Republic, France, Gabon and  South
Africa  were deployed in Central African Republic after the
Libreville agreement was signed.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon condemned the
“unconstitutional seizure of power” and said he was “deeply
concerned by reports of serious violations of human rights.”  French President  Francois Hollande  boosted his country’s
military presence in Bangui “to ensure, if necessary, the
protection of French residents,” according to a statement
yesterday from the president’s office in Paris. He urged “all
parties to remain calm and for talks to take place around the
government formed under the Libreville accord.”  Rights Abuses  Under that agreement, Bozize’s administration and the
rebels agreed to form a government of national unity. Tiangaye
was appointed prime minister, while Seleka was given five
Cabinet posts, including the  Defense Ministry .  The U.S. urged Seleka’s leadership to establish law and
order and restore basic electric and water services. The U.S.
also wants the rebels to recognize the legitimacy of the
country’s power-sharing government and welcomed the continued
engagement of regional leaders from  Chad  and the Congo Republic
in negotiating a political solution,  Victoria Nuland , a
spokeswoman for the U.S. State Department, said in a statement.  “We are very concerned by the worsening humanitarian
situation in CAR and credible, widespread reports of human
rights abuses by both national security forces and Seleka
fighters,” she said. “Perpetrators of such abuses must be held
accountable.”  Looting Scenes  The International Committee of the Red Cross called for an
end to fighting.  “We have observed scenes of looting,” Georgios
Georgantas, head of the ICRC delegation in the Central African
Republic, said in a  statement . “We are calling on all parties
to the conflict to spare civilians.”  Pangea Diamondfields Inc., an Isle of Man-based exploration
company, owns a concession in Central African Republic that is
currently on care and maintenance, according to the company’s
website.  Axmin Inc. (AXM) , a Canadian gold explorer, said Jan. 7 it
delayed plans to open a mine in the country by at least a year
because of the rebellion.  The country has a gross domestic product of about $3.6
billion and earns most of its foreign currency from timber and
diamond exports, according to the CIA World Factbook.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Antoine Lawson in Libreville at 
 ankolo@bloomberg.net ;
Crispin Dembassa in Abuja at 
 cdembassa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  