-- Centrica Buys U.S. Gas in 20-Year Deal as U.K. Output Wanes
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-03-25T17:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/centrica-buys-u-s-gas-in-20-year-deal-as-british-output-wanes.html
Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s largest
household energy supplier, signed a 20-year deal to import
natural gas from the U.S., securing supplies as production from
British North Sea fields decline.  Centrica will buy 1.75 million metric tons a year of
liquefied natural gas from  Cheniere Energy Inc. (LNG) ’s Sabine Pass
plant in  Louisiana , the Windsor, England-based company said
today. That’s equivalent to the demand of 1.8 million U.K.
homes. The deal can be extended for another 10 years, it said.
Prices will be linked to Henry Hub, the U.S. gas benchmark, and
deliveries will start in September 2018.  The deal shows the U.S.’s emergence as a natural gas
exporter after fracking technology created a glut of fuel,
sending prices to decade lows. In contrast, U.K. gas prices
spiked to a seven-year high last week after a fault on a Belgian
pipeline, raising concern that Britain is vulnerable to supply
shortages as indigenous production slumps.  “It’s a nice contract to have if the fundamentals that
exist today are there in five years’ time,” Iain Turner, a
utilities analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in  London , said by phone.
“It’s a sensible sort of move.”  The contract sales price will be $3 per million British
thermal units plus 115 percent of the settlement price traded on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange’s Henry Hub for the month in
which the cargo is scheduled, Cheniere said today in a filing.
Henry Hub in Erath, Louisiana, is the delivery point for Nymex
futures, a benchmark price for the fuel.  Qatar Contract  Natural gas in the U.S. traded at $3.94 at 4:57 p.m. London
time, meaning Centrica would pay $7.53 per million Btu under the
contract terms. In the U.K., the front-month contract was at
73.90 pence per therm, or $11.21 per million Btu.  The cost of shipping LNG to  Europe  from the U.S. is
estimated at $1.85 per million Btu, according to a presentation
by Jean Abiteboul, Cheniere’s president of supply and marketing,
in Amsterdam on March 11.  In February 2011, Centrica signed a three-year LNG contract
with Qatar Liquefied Gas Co. for 2.4 million tons of the fuel
annually. QatarGas, as the company is known, is the world’s
biggest LNG producer.  Centrica gained 1.3 percent to 362.10 pence by the London
close, valuing the company at 18.8 billion pounds ($29 billion).  Cameron Welcome  “I warmly welcome this commercial agreement between
Centrica and Cheniere,” U.K. Prime Minster David Cameron said
in the statement. “Future gas supplies from the U.S. will help
diversify our energy mix and provide British consumers with a
new long-term, secure and affordable source of fuel.”  Sabine Pass is the only project so far to obtain full U.S.
approval for an LNG export terminal outside of  Alaska . Cheniere
has said the proposed gas export facility may start up in 2015,
with as many as six units operating there in the future.  The gas for Centrica would come from the fifth unit, or
train, on which preliminary engineering work has already begun,
the U.K. company said, adding it will buy the LNG on a “free-
on-board” basis, meaning it can choose where to send the fuel.  Existing Cheniere customers include BG Group Plc, Korea Gas
Corp., Gail India Ltd. and Spain’s Gas Natural SDG SA.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  