-- CEZ Says Temelin Atomic Plant Bidders Must Improve Offers
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2013-03-25T13:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cez-says-temelin-atomic-plant-bidders-must-improve-offers.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech state-controlled
utility, said Westinghouse Electric Co. LLC and a Russian-Czech
group led by Rosatom Corp. must improve their offers to supply
the Temelin nuclear plant in a deal valued at $10 billion.  Offers by both bidders to construct two reactors need
improvement “in all aspects,” CEZ spokesman Ladislav Kriz said
in an e-mailed statement from  Prague  today. The Czech utility
will meet with both companies for further discussions, according
to the statement.  Choosing between a U.S. and a Russian supplier is seen as a
politically strategic decision in the ex-communist country,
which depends on Russian imports for most of its energy. The
Czechs currently buy 60 percent of their oil, 70 percent of
natural gas and all their nuclear fuel from  Russia . Their six
nuclear reactors are of Soviet-era design.  “This is a big geopolitical challenge,”  Eugeniusz Smolar ,
a foreign policy-expert for the Warsaw-based quarterly New
Eastern  Europe , said by phone. “The Czech Republic is a member
of both NATO and the European Union, so it would be rather
logical to go for western technology, but it’s possible that the
Russians will offer a better price.”  The Temelin reactor construction is the largest industrial
project in the Czech Republic’s history. The winner is supposed
to be announced at the end of the summer and a contract should
be signed by the end of the year.  Shares Drop  CEZ shares were down 1.2 percent to 568.8 koruna at 2:17
p.m. Prague time. The stock lost 13 percent last year and has
shed a further 16 percent since the start of 2013.  The Czech government has been under diplomatic pressure
from both sides. Former U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
visited Prague in December to urge the nation to “diversify its
energy sources” by choosing the Westinghouse technology, while
Rosatom Deputy Chief Executive Officer Kirill Komarov said last
October the Russian state-run company was willing to help
finance the deal.  Westinghouse, owned by  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , is pitching its
AP1000 reactor model, the newest design with so-called passive
safety features that rely on gravity rather than diesel
generators that failed after the 2011 tsunami in Fukushima,
 Japan , leading to a partial reactor meltdown. The Russian-Czech
consortium led by Rosatom’s subsidiary Atomostroyexport is
offering the VVER1200 design, the latest model in its long line
of pressurized water reactors.  Hybrid Technology  The current Temelin plant is a hybrid between the Russian
and Westinghouse technology. Its two reactors, the Soviet-
designed VVER1000, were fitted with Westinghouse safety systems,
electricity circuits and cabling to conform with western
European standards, delaying the construction for more than a
decade. Both units came on line in 2003 with a combined output
of 2,000 megawatts.  The choice between U.S. and Russian technology will also
impact the future of Czech industry as both bidders promise to
subcontract large parts of the project. Czech machinery makers,
who worked with Soviet engineers in the past, are certified only
for Russian standards and can’t currently compete with Western
subcontractors, said Yves Brachet, chief executive officer at
Westinghouse for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa .  ‘Geopolitical Choice’  “It’s the  Czech Republic ’s geopolitical choice between
West and East, and what type of industry it wants to
cultivate,” Brachet said in a March 6 interview at Bloomberg’s
Prague office. “It’s still difficult to buy here according to
western European or U.S. standards. Choosing the AP100 could be
an opportunity for the whole industry to open up to the West.”  The Temelin project is one of the few prizes left for the
nuclear-power industry in Europe, where a number of projects
were halted and countries from  Germany  to  Italy  declared an
atom-free future after the 2011 disaster at Fukushima.  A combination of low power prices, plummeting value of
carbon credits and falling demand for electricity is throwing
even the Czech project into doubt as CEZ demands government
guarantees on future purchase price of the power produced by new
Temelin reactors.  The company is also facing problems from  Areva SA (AREVA) , which
was excluded from the bidding process in October for failing to
meet commercial and legal requirements of the tender. The French
company has appealed the decision and said it will use all
available legal procedures to stop the tender and prevent CEZ
from signing a contract with the winner.  CEZ’s hopes of finding a strategic investor willing to help
finance the new Temelin reactors have been disappointed as most
European utilities are shedding assets and cutting spending
rather than investing in new projects.  While the company insists it can afford to finance the new
reactors on its own, its earnings and share prices have suffered
because of the sluggish markets and problems at its subsidiaries
in Albania and  Bulgaria . Fourth-quarter profit slumped 52
percent and CEZ’s stock has fallen 24 percent in the past year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  