-- LCH.Clearnet Had a `Major' IT Failure in December, BOE Sa
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2013-03-25T14:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/lch-clearnet-had-major-it-failure-in-december-boe-says.html
LCH.Clearnet Ltd., the world’s
largest interest-rate swap clearinghouse, had a “major”
information-technology failure on Dec. 31 that affected payment
processing in the U.K. and hindered contingency plans, the  Bank
of England  said.  London-based LCH.Clearnet restored the systems by the
“early evening” so payments could settle as normal, the BOE
said in its annual report on the U.K. payment system, published
today. The firm is investigating the cause and has plans to
prevent it from happening again.  The failure “affected operational processes including
payment arrangements,” it said. “The nature of the problem
created obstacles to reverting to contingency arrangements and
also hindered internal and external communications.”  Clearinghouses such as LCH and those run by  CME Group Inc. (CME) ,
 Intercontinental Exchange Inc. (ICE) , Eurex AG, the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corp., and the Options Clearing Corp. have grown more
important to the financial system as regulators globally push
more trades through them.  LCH said today that the incident “was fully communicated
to regulators, exchanges, members and clients at the time.”  ‘We identified the issue and took measures to ensure this
doesn’t happen again,’’ it said in an e-mailed statement.
“There were no financial losses as a result.”  Clearinghouses cut risk by collecting collateral at the
start of each transaction, monitoring daily price moves and
making traders put up more cash as losses occur. Traders have to
deal through clearing members, typically the biggest banks and
brokerages. Unlike privately traded derivatives, prices for
cleared trades are set every day and publicly disclosed.  BOE Priorities  In its report, the BOE noted incidents including the LCH
issue and said one of its priorities for 2013 will be reducing
operational risks. It also said it will have an “increased
emphasis” on cyber risk.  “Although operational risk cannot be eliminated, systems
can take steps to reduce the likelihood of these risks
crystallizing and mitigate the impact should they do so,” the
BOE said. “The bank will be increasing its focus on how
recognized systems manage their operational risks.”  LCH will be 57.8 percent  owned  by  London Stock Exchange
Group Plc (LSE)  after a takeover that values LCH at 633 million euros
($819 million). Shareholders of both companies will vote on the
transaction this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  