-- China Detains Man With Same Name as Hanlong Chairman
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-03-25T05:32:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/china-detains-man-with-same-name-as-sichuan-hanlong-chairman.html
(Corrects to say Liu Han is being investigated in first
paragraph.)  Police are investigating a man with
the same name as the chairman of a Chinese company seeking to
buy Australian miner  Sundance Resources Ltd. (SDL)  on suspicion of
harboring his brother, who is wanted for murder.  The man, identified as Liu Han, is being probed for
allegedly sheltering his younger brother, 43-year-old Liu Yong,
according to a March 22 report by the official  Xinhua News
Agency  that was posted on the website of China’s Ministry of
Public Security. The brother had been a fugitive for years,
according to the report.  The Xinhua report didn’t give additional details about Liu
Han. The Shanghai Securities News reported March 20 that the
chairman of Sichuan Hanlong Group, who has the same name, had
been detained. Shares of Sundance Resources Ltd., which has
agreed to be taken over by Sichuan Hanlong, fell 6.7 percent to
21 Australian cents before being suspended March 19.  The Xinhua report said Liu Yong is from the Sichuan
Province city of Guanghan. Sichuan Hanlong Chairman Liu Han’s
residence is in Guanghan,  according to  a 2003 statement by
Sichuan Jinlu Group Co.  Sichuan Hanlong is the third-largest shareholder of Sichuan
Jinlu, and Liu Han is Sichuan Jinlu’s chairman. Sichuan Jinlu
said in a statement March 20 that it wasn’t able to get in touch
with Liu.  Sundance Chairman George Jones said in a phone call March
21 that Liu was “uncontactable.”  Sichuan Hanlong media official Wu Shijun declined to
comment when reached by telephone today. Two calls to the office
of Sichuan Jinlu Group’s board secretary rang unanswered today,
as did a call to the Ministry of Public Security in Beijing.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net ;
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  