-- Cisco, Nikon, Redskins, Google: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-03-25T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cisco-nikon-redskins-google-intellectual-property.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the world’s
largest maker of networking equipment, must pay patent-licenser
 XpertUniverse Inc.  $70 million in civil fraud damages in
connection with a failed partnership, a federal jury decided.  After a two-week trial, the jury of six women and two men
in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , also decided Cisco
infringed two patents for contacting experts online to answer
questions and owes more than $33,000 on those counts. In dispute
were patents 7,366,709 and 7,499,903.  XpertUniverse, based in New York, sued San Jose,
California-based Cisco in 2009, contending officials strung it
along for more than six months, holding out the possibility of a
lucrative partnership, without revealing that Cisco had rejected
the deal.  Alleging “fraudulent concealment,” XpertUniverse lawyer
Charles Cantine told jurors Cisco’s actions “led to destruction
of the company,” when it might have pursued potentially more-
profitable alliances and survived.  Cisco’s lawyer, Brett Schuman, told the jury that
XpertUniverse “never had a product, customers or revenue,”
that Cisco was at first interested in a partnership and backed
out after realizing the only result of the smaller company’s
research was “a demo” for a future product.  Schuman told the jury “mismanagement” and “lack of
leadership” caused XpertUniverse’s failure.  “XpertUniverse is a small company with intellectual
property as its primary asset,” it said in court papers. The
software-development firm was founded in the 1990s by Ukrainian
immigrant Victor Friedman as Homework911 to help schoolchildren.
It changed its name as it switched to the richer corporate call-
center market, Friedman testified when the trial began March 12.  Cantine said his client was “very happy that Friedman and
the company were vindicated.”  “We are surprised and extremely disappointed with the
jury’s verdict,” Kristin Carvell, a Cisco spokeswoman, said
Friday in an e-mailed statement. “We are confident that Cisco’s
conduct was appropriate throughout our relationship with
XpertUniverse.”  She said that Cisco didn’t believe “the evidence presented
at trial supports this verdict,” and that the company may
appeal.  The case is XpertUniverse Inc. v. Cisco Systems Inc., 09-
cv-00157, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Nikon LCD Patent Suit Brought by Anvik Revived by Appeals Court  Nikon Corp. (7731) , Samsung Electronics Co. and other makers of
electronics using liquid crystal displays must face a revived
patent-infringement suit brought by Anvik Corp., a U.S. appeals
court ruled Friday.  A lower court had ruled the three Anvik patents invalid for
failing to describe the best way of emulating the inventions.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in  Washington 
said there “remain disputed issues of material fact” on that
issue, so remanded the case for further proceedings. The court’s
opinion was posted on its website.  Other companies named in the suit by Anvik included AU
Optronics, Sharp Corp.,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Chi Mei
Optoelectronics Corp.  Anvik filed the first case in the series in March 2005.
That case is Anvik Corp. v. Nikon Precision Inc., 1:05-cv-09891-
AKH-LMS, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York. The
appeal is Anvik Corp. v. Nikon Precision Inc., 12-1320, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  ‘Redskins’ Trademark Cancellation Bill Sent to Congress  A non-voting delegate to the U.S. Congress has authored a
bill that would cancel all trademark registrations for
“Redskins.”  Representative Eni Faleomavaega , an American Samoa
Democrat, wrote  H.R. 1278 , which would amend the Trademark Act
of 1946 regarding “the disparagement of Native American persons
or peoples through marks that use the term ‘redskin,’ and for
other purposes.”  The measure has been referred to the House Committee on the
Judiciary. The bill’s introduction follows a hearing before a
board at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office March 7 at which a
group of American Indians argued for the cancellation of the
mark, which is used by Washington’s National Football League
team.  According to the patent office database, a number of the
team’s trademarks were at issue at this hearing, including
“Redskinettes,” “the Redskins,” and “Washington Redskins.”  The  team  has argued in its filings that the name was
intended to honor American Indians, an honor that some
representatives of various native groups find dubious.  In February, a symposium -- Racist Stereotypes and Cultural
Appropriation in American Sports -- was held at the  National
Museum of the American Indian  in Washington. The Washington Post
 reported  that Robert Holden, deputy director of the  National
Congress of American Indians , said “Honors like that we don’t
need.”  Rival Golf Club Will Oppose ‘St. Andrews’ Trademark Application  The director of a golf-course development in  Scotland  has
characterized  St. Andrews Links Trust ’s application to register
“St. Andrews” as a trademark as farcical and arrogant, the
U.K.’s Courier newspaper  reported .  Ewan McKay, director of  St. Andrews International Golf Club 
told the Courier his company will file objections to the
registration for fear of possible restrictions to the name of
his club.  McKay said the trust can’t claim sole credit for the fame
of St. Andrews in the golf world, according to the Courier.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Google Clash With Publishers Pivots on Meaning of Snippet  As German authorities consider the exact definition of a
snippet -- the short text from a website that’s displayed
alongside links in search results --  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and other
online aggregators in  Europe  face a potential squeeze on their
profits in the region.  A landmark copyright bill that would allow publishers to
charge for such online uses of their material is working its way
through  Germany ’s legislature and is being closely watched by
neighboring countries. Although it’s been watered down during
its legislative journey, the bill may still leave room for a
judge to side with publishers and allow them to charge for
significant use of news articles, including in search.  The legislation, part of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
coalition platform, pits Google against media conglomerates,
such as  Axel Springer AG (SPR) , publisher of Die Welt and Bild, and
Hubert Burda Media Holding GmbH & Co., which specializes in
fashion and lifestyle magazines. It’s seen by both Google and
European media companies as a vital front in the search giant’s
battle with European newspapers.  The bill could allow publishers to form a royalty
collection group for newspaper snippets -- akin to ASCAP (the
American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers) for
journalism -- and gain leverage with Google, which has more than
85 percent of the search market in Germany.  Google’s sales in the U.K., the only European market where
the company breaks out revenue, rose 23 percent to $1.3 billion
in the three months through December, more than Axel Springer’s
total revenue that quarter. Google shares have jumped about 15
percent this year, compared with 13 percent gain for French
publisher  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  and a 6.2 percent increase at Axel
Springer.  The search-engine operator notched an important victory
days before the bill passed out of the German lower house on
March 1, winning an exemption for “individual words or the
smallest excerpts of text.”  “Although the law creates some uncertainty,” said Ralf
Bremer, a Google spokesman in Germany, “we believe it makes
clear that regular snippets remain legal.”  Axel Springer public affairs head Christoph Keese said
aggregators will still need permission to use text beyond
headlines, and should the issue go to court, “we feel
comfortable with what the legislative intent established.”  Rihanna Costing 49% More as Australia Probes Apple Pricing  Rihanna’s album “Unapologetic” is 49 percent more
expensive to buy from iTunes in  Australia  than the U.S.,
prompting the nation’s parliament to summon content owners
including   Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and other technology companies to explain
how they set prices.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE)  also were  called  by
Australian lawmakers on threat of contempt proceedings to appear
at a hearing today in Canberra. The companies previously
declined to appear before the committee, Chairman Nick Champion
said in an October speech.  Software and hardware products in Australia sell for a
median 50 percent more than their U.S. equivalents, according to
a 2012 survey of 186 songs, games, programs and computers by
Choice, a not-for-profit consumer advocacy group. Companies
could face restrictions on their ability to set prices in
Australia under measures being considered by lawmakers.  “There’s been price discrimination against Australian
consumers,” said Matthew Rimmer, a professor at Australian
National University in Canberra, who specializes in copyright
law. “If the distribution is digital, why are the prices so
much higher?”  Rihanna’s album costs A$22.99 ($23.98) in the Australian
iTunes store, compared with the $15.99 that fans in the U.S.
pay. Bruno Mars’s “Unorthodox Jukebox,” in the  Top 10  of both
 nation’s  charts, costs 42 percent more.  Downloads of Microsoft’s Office Professional 2013 software
package cost  A$599  in Australia, about 50 percent above the
$399.99 charged in the company’s  U.S. Web store .  “We would love to see lower prices for content in the
Australian store,” Tony King, managing director of Apple’s
Australia unit, said at the committee hearing in the capital
Canberra today. “We would urge the committee to talk to those
folks who own the content.”  The biggest difference in prices for music and films was
due to the wholesale price set by music labels and film and
television studios, he said.  Customers “will vote with their wallets” and buy
alternative products if prices are too high, Pip Marlow,
managing director of Microsoft’s Australia division, told the
committee.  Different packaging distinguished products sold in
Australia from those sold elsewhere, Adobe’s Australian managing
director Paul Robson said.  “I’d consider a box that has different writing on it to be
materially different,” he said.  Sales taxes, different labor and rental costs, marketing
spending and the decisions of third-party resellers can all
cause Australian prices to be higher, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in its  filing  to the committee. Even download
sites incur costs for maintenance and support, the company said.  The strength of the Australian dollar has increased the
contrast between local and international prices for software,
music and entertainment.  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Telenor Target of Large-Scale Cyber Attack; Military Alerted  Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Scandinavian region’s largest phone
operator, was the target of a large-scale industrial espionage
attack, TechWorld  reported.   The attacks were of sufficient severity that  Norway ’s
national emergency response team and  Cyberforsvaret  -- the
nation’s cyber-attack defense force -- were put on alert,
according to TechWorld. The company, which hasn’t revealed what
has been stolen, said it became aware of the problem when it
observed suspicious traffic from individual employees’ computers
to external destinations, TechWorld reported.  The attack was believed to have been initiated through
links that installed what are known as “Trojans,” that then
stole filed and emails, according to TechWorld.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 