-- Companies Failed by Customs Ill-Equipped as Border Police
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/companies-failed-by-customs-ill-equipped-as-border-police.html
Corning Inc. (GLW)  has been blocked for
more than a year from importing to the U.S. its parts connecting
cable wires to televisions, even after a trade judge ruled the
components don’t infringe a competitor’s patent.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  says a rival’s smartphone was allowed into the
U.S. last year when it shouldn’t have been.  Both disputes revolve around the role of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection -- an agency better known for securing the
U.S. from illegal immigrants, terrorists and drugs -- in parsing
patent law and technology. With the U.S. International Trade
Commission considering bans on devices by Apple and Samsung
Electronics Co., which account for 72 percent of the $51 billion
smartphone market, the Corning case highlights the difficulty
Customs may have enforcing an order on mobile phones that look
alike and have similar features.  “Customs doesn’t feel it’s competent to call balls and
strikes in this situation and the ITC doesn’t want the added
burden,” said  Brian Burke , a former Customs lawyer. now with
Rode & Qualey in New York. “Everyone has a complaint they can
make about the messiness of this process.”  Jenny Burke, a spokeswoman on trade issues for Customs,
said agency officials wouldn’t comment or be interviewed. Peg O’Laughlin, an ITC spokeswoman, said the commission had no
comment.  While one of Customs’s missions under trade statutes is to
police imports, there are no clear rules on how that process
should work, said Burke and other lawyers. ITC decisions
expected soon may effect the bulk of a U.S. smartphone market
estimated by Neil Shah, an analyst with Strategy Analytics, at
$51 billion last year.  No Clear Rules  The demands on Customs to act as patent police have become
more of an issue with the ITC dealing with an escalating number
of complaints seeking import bans, driven by the fight for
market share in mobile phones and other digital technology.
Cases at the ITC, an independent federal agency that provides
trade advice and rulings to protect the U.S. economy, rose 530
percent from 2000 to 2011,  In addition to cases involving mobile phones, the ITC has
put in place more than  four dozen  import bans on products from
light-emitting diodes and DVD players to floor panels and even
caskets.  Customs sided with  PPC Broadband Inc.  in blocking Corning’s
imports after the ITC in 2010 granted an order blocking what PPC
considered foreign-made knockoffs of its coaxial cable
connectors. Corning wasn’t named as a party to the case, yet
Customs barred the company’s parts.  Deeper Analysis  Corning Gilbert, the unit that makes the cable connectors,
won a February decision from the U.S. Court of International
Trade Judge Leo Gordon in New York that it wasn’t infringing the
PPC patent and Customs should have done a deeper analysis before
banning imports.  PPC, which wasn’t allowed to participate in that case, has
gone back to the ITC in  Washington  to argue the judge in New
York got it wrong. Burke is representing the company.  Dan Collins, a spokesman for Corning, said the Corning, New
York-based company is “working through the process” with
Customs and the ITC to determine whether the company’s cable
connectors will be allowed to be sold in the U.S. He didn’t
provide an estimate of the company’s lost sales.  Once the ITC issues an exclusion order, each side starts
lobbying Customs. The patent owner gives instructions on how to
identify the product at the core of the case and explains the
invention. The importer presents arguments that it’s changed
their product or the patent is limited.  Lobbying Customs  “You’re talking to Customs on the one side and the
importer is talking to Customs on the other side and you don’t
know what the other is saying,” said  Jonathan Engler , a patent
lawyer with Adduci Mastriani & Schaumberg in Washington, whose
firm handles the most ITC cases. “I don’t think Customs is
happy with that, but they are bound by the Trade Secrets Act.”  Working off the ITC case file and information from the
parties, advisers within Customs prepare an internal memo that
goes out to ports. The companies also visit ports of entry to
sway local officials.  Customs last year  opened  four Centers of Excellence and
Expertise in the fields of electronics, pharmaceuticals,
automotive and petroleum. One goal of the centers is to develop
more expertise in patent cases, Engler said.  When it comes to complex technology like software features
on smartphones, Customs decisions can get murky.  HTC Corp. (2498)  phones were held up at the border for a couple of
weeks in May 2012 after the company was told by the trade
commission to remove a feature to detect telephone numbers that
infringed an Apple patent. That delay held up plans by carriers
to sell the HTC EVO 4G until HTC certified the phone no longer
infringed the patent.  Working Through  Apple, in an enforcement action it filed, accused its rival
of misleading Customs into green-lighting the phone. The two
companies settled their dispute before a decision was made.  “When you’re talking smartphones that are being changed
every three months and someone is coming up with new models,
it’s a very difficult issue because Customs has to keep up with
it,” said Paul Brinkman, a patent lawyer with Quinn Emanuel in
Washington who represented HTC in the Apple case. “The phones
at issue when Apple and HTC went to trial don’t exist anymore.”  Brinkman’s firm also represents Samsung and Engler’s firm
represents Apple. Both lawyers said they wouldn’t comment on the
Customs process as it pertains to the dispute between those two
companies.  Lawyers including Brinkman and Engler said the trade
commission should provide more assistance to Customs.  “The Corning case is an example where things reached their
limits and passed their limits of what can be expected of
Customs,” Engler said.  “You have Customs basically saying ‘we’re trying to
prevent dirty bombs coming in; we have things to do’ and you
have the court say ‘you have to stand in the shoes of the
commission.’ ”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  