-- Connecticut’s Bipartisanship Slows Response to Newtown
-- B y   A n n i e   L i n s k e y
-- 2013-03-25T15:50:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/connecticut-republicans-slow-gun-control-in-blue-state.html
Almost every weekday, four
Democratic and two Republican lawmakers meet inside a Hartford,
 Connecticut , conference room to determine the state’s response
to the Newtown elementary school massacre.  The ritual started March 6. Reporters gather in hallways
and wait for a decision while Democratic Governor Dannel Malloy
and gun-control advocates seeking tougher laws express
increasing frustration at the lack of action.  The logjam is a result of an attempt at bipartisanship that
may backfire. The Democrats, who don’t need a single Republican
vote, nonetheless invited the party to help craft measures in
the wake of the Dec. 14 shootings that killed 26 people,
including 20 children. Connecticut would show unity in the face
of evil, lawmakers said. Three months after the attack, New York
and  Colorado  have tightened firearms laws as the Hartford talks
drag on.  “This was an honest attempt for bipartisanship at the
outset, given the enormity of what happened here,” said Ron
Pinciaro, the executive director of Connecticut Against Gun
Violence, the state’s oldest and largest firearms-control
organization. “It has turned out to be a bad idea.”  Pinciaro and families of some Newtown victims held a press
conference in Hartford March 22, saying they’re concerned about
rumors that the lawmakers are watering down a proposed ban on
high-capacity magazines. They urged lawmakers to ban the sale
and possession of magazines that hold more than 10 bullets.  Switching Magazines  Some first-graders ran out of the school as the shooter,
Adam Lanza, switched magazines in his Bushmaster AR-15
semiautomatic rifle, said David Ackert, founder of the Newtown
Action Alliance, a group representing victims.  “If this isn’t enough reason to rid our state of magazines
able to fire more than 10 rounds at time -- both those already
in circulation and new ones as well -- I don’t know what will
be,” Ackert said in a statement.  Sixty-six percent of Connecticut voters support stronger
gun-control laws, according to a Quinnipiac University poll
released March 6. The survey by the Hamden, Connecticut-based
school showed 68 percent want a broader ban on assault weapons.
The same percentage wants a ban on high-capacity magazines,
according to the poll.  Rampage Spreadsheet  The talks in Hartford started after rank-and-file Democrats
and Republicans on a so-called supercommittee couldn’t agree on
proposals. Democrats participating are Senate President Pro Tem
Donald E. Williams, Senate Majority Leader Martin M. Looney,
House Speaker Brendan Sharkey and House Majority Leader Joe Aresimowicz. On the Republican side are Senate Minority Leader
John McKinney and House Minority Leader Lawrence Cafero.  On March 21, Cafero asked the state police for a briefing
on their investigation into the Newtown shootings, a request
prompted by leaks published in the  New York  Daily News.
Lawmakers say they haven’t been given updates on the probe.  The newspaper reported that Lanza was obsessed with mass
shootings and kept a 7-by-4-foot spreadsheet listing other
rampage killings, the people slaughtered and the weapons used.  Malloy, 57, is arranging the briefing, though he criticized
the House Republican for the delay. The governor issued his own
proposals Feb. 21, including a call to broaden the ban on
assault weapons to include the type of rifle Lanza used.  Sending Message  “What more does Mr. Cafero need to know before he’s
finally ready to take action?” Malloy said in a statement.  Pat O’Neil, a spokesman for Cafero, said the lawmaker won’t
hold up talks indefinitely on that point. Cafero is seeking
details about the crime, including Lanza’s mental condition and
whether the weapons he used had been locked in his home, O’Neil
said.  Democrats hold 22 of the 36 Senate seats and 99 of the 151
House positions. They’ve pledged to use that majority to approve
stronger gun measures should the bipartisan talks fail.  “The best case is a strong comprehensive bill that will
send a message to the other 49 states,” said Williams, the top
Senate Democrat, in a telephone interview. “That message will
be more powerful if we have Democrats and Republicans supporting
the policy.”  Sharkey, the House Speaker, also defended the process.  “I don’t think anybody is going to be saying, ’Oh that is
such a disappointment’ because we are doing it in May instead of
March,” Sharkey said in an interview in Hartford this month.  New York  Republicans point to New York, where lawmakers may revisit
parts of the law they passed in January.  “They got it wrong,” said O’Neil. “They did it without
public hearings. We do it differently.”  Pro-gun groups aren’t complaining about the delay. They’ve
flooded the capital with gun owners -- and even workers from the
West Hartford-based Colt Defense LLC gun factory who say they
are worried about jobs.  “The longer it lasts, the more they delve into the details
into the smaller parts of the bill, the better off the gun
owners of the state are,” said Robert Crook, the executive
director of the Coalition of Connecticut Sportsmen, which has
35,000 members in the state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annie Linskey in Boston at 
 alinskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  