-- CSM to Sell Bakery Unit to Rhone for About $1.4 Billion
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-03-25T14:18:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/csm-agrees-to-sell-bakery-unit-to-rhone-for-about-1-4-billion.html
CSM NV (CSM)  agreed to sell its bakery
supplies unit to Rhone Capital LLC for 1.05 billion euros ($1.36
billion) including debt, ending a 10-month search for a buyer as
it seeks to focus on bio-based ingredients.  The net cash proceeds will be about 850 million euros, with
the remainder coming from pension liabilities being transferred
with the business, Diemen, Netherlands-based CSM said today.  The price is “more or less in line with expectations,”
said  Richard Withagen , an analyst at SNS Securities in
Amsterdam, who rates CSM a buy and expects some of the proceeds
to be returned to investors. With CSM’s focus on its remaining
divisions “it’s a completely new chapter in the business.”  The unit that sells bakery ingredients and ready-made goods
was put up for  sale  in May as CSM seeks to concentrate on its
Purac and Caravan ingredients businesses. The division has been
up against declining volume as consumers switch from buying
bread at artisan bakeries in favor of shopping at supermarkets.  “We are certain that we can distribute some of the
proceeds to shareholders,” CSM Chief Executive Officer Gerard Hoetmer said on a conference call with analysts today. No
decision has been made on how much will be returned or on
whether a share buyback or dividend will be used, he said.  The  shares  rose as much as 8.4 percent in Amsterdam, the
steepest intraday gain since May 7. They were up 4.8 percent at
17.25 euros as of 3:15 p.m., giving the company a market value
of 1.26 billion euros.  ‘Essential Step’  The sale “is a milestone in the development of the company
and an essential step towards our goal of transforming into a
leading supplier of innovative bio-based ingredients and
solutions,” Hoetmer said in a statement. The sale should be
completed in the third quarter.  Most of the company’s future investments will go into the
biotechnology trend, Hoetmer told analysts.  CSM decided to divest the unit almost a year ago because it
didn’t have the financial capital to develop both businesses, it
said at the time. CSM’s Purac business posted sales growth of
2.4 percent in 2012, led by demand from Asia.  CSM, which says it is the biggest provider of bakery
ingredients, wrote down the value of the European business
earlier this month by 165 million euros. The business makes
products such as ingredients and ready-made products for
bakeries, food-service outlets, restaurants and supermarkets.  Rhone Purchases  Rhone, a New York-based buyout firm, has more than 3
billion euros under management and focuses on companies with a
European or transatlantic presence. It bought the carbon-black
unit of German chemical maker Evonik Industries AG for more than
900 million euros in 2011.  Morgan Stanley and PricewaterhouseCoopers Corporate Finance
were joint advisers to the buyers on the CSM sale. Rothschild
and Rabobank acted for the Dutch company.  The businesses being sold had sales of 2.56 billion euros
in 2012 and earnings before interest, taxes and amortization,
excluding one-time items, of 106.8 million euros. The sale
excludes Caravan ingredients and includes the CSM brand name.  CSM will have one-time costs of 10 million euros to 15
million euros related to the divestment of the bakery business
in 2013 and doesn’t expect further costs at a corporate level,
Chief Financial Officer Nicolaas Kramer told analysts today.  The company will make an announcement on the renaming and
rebranding of the company “in due course,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  