-- Cuomo’s 7-Bullet Limit to Be Suspended Indefinitely, Skelos Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-03-25T00:30:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cuomo-s-7-bullet-limit-to-be-suspended-indefinitely-skelos-says.html
Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s seven-round
limit on magazines sold in  New York  will be suspended
“indefinitely” by a measure in his $136.5 billion budget set
to be passed this week, Dean Skelos, a Senate majority leader
said.  The ban on magazines holding more than seven bullets was
set to start April 15. Cuomo has said the law needs to be rolled
back because manufacturers don’t make seven-round holders. The
measure was a center piece to a gun law the 55-year-old
Democratic governor pushed through the legislature in January,
making New York the first state to respond with tougher gun
regulations to the Newtown, Connecticut school massacre.  The budget “bill will have an indefinite postponement of
the issue,” Skelos, the Long Island Republican who co-leads the
Senate with a group of five breakaway Democrats, told reporters
in  Albany  yesterday.  Josh Vlasto , a Cuomo spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail
requesting comment.  The senate is scheduled to meet through March 27 to pass
Cuomo’s budget. The Assembly will return to Albany March 28 to
begin voting. The budget goes into effect April 1.  The suspension means magazines holding up to 10 rounds will
continue to be sold. Other pieces of Cuomo’s gun law, including
measures that close loopholes in a 2000 assault weapons ban that
Cuomo said had more holes than Swiss cheese and tougher
background checks for sales, won’t be touched by the changes.
The governor began pressing for tighter firearm controls after
20 children and six adults were gunned down at Sandy Hook
Elementary School Dec. 14.  Cuomo has been criticized by pro-gun groups, including the
 National Rifle Association , for waiving a requirement that bills
sit for three days before they’re passed. His gun law was passed
within 24 hours of being introduced, a move Cuomo has said was
necessary to prevent a sales rush on assault weapons.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  