-- Cyprus Shows Trust in ECB Is Misplaced
-- B y   M e g a n   G r e e n e
-- 2013-03-25T16:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cyprus-shows-trust-in-ecb-is-misplaced.html
Ever since European Central Bank
President  Mario Draghi  said last July that the bank will do
 whatever  it takes to preserve the euro, complacency has pervaded
 Europe ’s single-currency area. Markets have weathered potential
crises in  Italy  and  Spain  with surprising calm, secure in the
knowledge that the ECB will save the day if needed.  This was always a false assumption, as events in  Cyprus 
have made clear. There are significant limitations to the
support the ECB is willing or able to offer, even to such a tiny
island economy whose needs are easily affordable.  The ECB relies on two primary mechanisms to help euro-area
countries in crisis. The first, emergency liquidity assistance,
allows a country’s banks to access cheap funding from their
national central bank, even when all they have left is low-
quality collateral that doesn’t meet the criteria for the ECB’s
standard liquidity operations. This emergency facility has
helped a number of countries make it through liquidity squeezes
over the past few years, keeping banks in Belgium, Greece and
Ireland on life support since the beginning of the crisis in
2008.  The ECB has kept Cypriot banks alive in this way, too,
providing about 9 billion euros ($11.6 billion) of financing to
date. The ECB  threatened  to cut Cyprus off, however, if a
bailout deal wasn’t agreed on with the so-called troika of
international creditors -- the ECB, the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Commission -- by March 26.  Capital Controls  In response to the ECB’s threat, the Cypriot parliament
passed a bill on March 22,  allowing  for  capital controls .
Emergency ECB funding would have plugged the gap in bank balance
sheets created by deposit flight. Without this funding, deposit
flight would have to be stemmed by force of law to prevent the
island’s banks and economy from imploding. This is a serious
line for a euro-area country to cross: Capital controls are
legal under extraordinary circumstances, but they go against the
notion of freedom of goods, labor and capital that is the
principle tenet of the European currency union.  The second mechanism the ECB can use to support euro-area
countries is  outright  monetary transactions, the bond-buying
program that it detailed in September. This facility has yet to
be used, but its mere existence has caused borrowing costs for
peripheral euro-area countries to fall significantly.
Consequently, these countries have already  managed  to sell 28
billion euros of bonds in 2013, roughly double the figure for
the same period in 2012.  Despite this renewed confidence in euro-area government
debt, recent events in Cyprus have highlighted the bond-buying
program’s limitations -- it can alleviate stress in the
sovereign-bond markets, but that’s about it. Even if Cyprus met
all the conditions to use the facility, that wouldn’t help the
country avoid a banking and economic collapse.  Investors should have seen the limitations of the ECB’s
intervention tools before the Cyprus bailout disaster. Sovereign
borrowing costs have fallen, but as far as the real economy is
concerned, most indicators released from a euro-area country in
the past six months have been worse than the last. This goes not
just for the weak countries but also for core countries, such as
 Germany .  The outright-monetary-transactions program was meant to
support the real economies of peripheral countries by allowing
borrowing costs for businesses across the euro area to converge.
The opposite has happened. In January,  borrowing costs  for
small- and medium-sized enterprises in Spain and Italy -- where
such companies form the backbone of the economy -- rose to 6
percent and 5.8 percent, respectively. At the same time, the
cost of borrowing for German small- and medium-sized companies
fell, to 3.5 percent.  Political Risk  Even if the ECB’s two special rescue mechanisms succeed in
improving and stabilizing the financial and economic environment
of a euro country in crisis, these tools are powerless to
address political risk in the euro area. That’s a significant
weakness, because political risk has repeatedly come to the
forefront of this crisis, as elected politicians seek to protect
their own country’s interests in negotiations over who will end
up paying for the imbalances that have developed in a
fundamentally flawed monetary union.  Whatever happens in Cyprus is unlikely to ring the death
knell for the common currency. A chaotic default and exit from
the euro area by such a tiny economy would be disruptive, but
the rest of the currency union would probably weather it. The
Cyprus debacle has revealed, however, that the ECB isn’t a cure-
all, and that investors’ trust in the willingness and ability of
the central bank to “do whatever it takes” may be a big
mistake.  If the ECB’s toolkit can’t save a country that accounts for
0.2 percent of the euro area’s gross domestic product, then how
will it provide meaningful support when financial or fiscal
difficulties emerge in larger countries such as Spain and Italy?
This question should be keeping investors up at night, because
it’s a given that such difficulties will arise -- the only
question is when.  ( Megan Greene  is a Bloomberg View columnist and chief
economist at Maverick Intelligence. She is also a senior fellow
at the Atlantic Council in  Washington . The opinions expressed
are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Megan Greene at  megan@maverickintelligence.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 