-- Cyprus May See Significant Bank Withdrawals, Schmieding Says
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2013-03-25T16:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cyprus-may-see-significant-bank-withdrawals-schmieding-says.html
Bank customers in Cyprus, which
agreed to a 10 billion euro ($13 billion) bailout today, may
line up to withdraw money when savings institutions reopen,
 Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank, said.  “That is quite possible that we get a significant
withdrawal of deposits in Cyprus, but I guess that the  European
Central Bank , the local authorities see to it, that there is
enough cash for the deposits to be withdrawn,” Schmieding said
on Bloomberg Television’s Market Makers with  Stephanie Ruhle  and
Scarlet Fu. “We may see queues.”  Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed earlier today
to shut the country’s second-largest bank,  Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl. (CPB)  The accord with the European Union and the  International
Monetary Fund  spares bank accounts below the insured limit of
100,000 euros while imposing losses that two EU officials said
would be no more than 40 percent on uninsured depositors at  Bank
of Cyprus Plc (BOCY) , the country’s largest bank. Those who will be
largely wiped out include uninsured depositors and bondholders,
including senior creditors. Senior bondholders will also
contribute to the recapitalization of Bank of Cyprus.  “Outside Cyprus I do not expect generally a rush,”
Schmieding said. “I would expect more of a trickle of deposits
leaving some other countries.”  Bank Closure  Banks in Cyprus, which have been shut for the past week,
will remain closed until further notice.  It’s the second time in nine days that Cyprus struck a deal
with European creditors and the IMF. The previous Cypriot
accord, reached March 16, fell apart three days later when the
parliament in Nicosia rejected a key plank -- a tax on all bank
accounts that sparked the indignation of smaller depositors.
Efforts to win an alternative bailout from  Russia , which lent
Cyprus 2.5 billion euros in 2011 when the nation was shut out of
international markets, failed.  With the ECB threatening to cut off emergency financing for
tottering banks as soon as today, Cyprus’s leaders bowed to
creditors’ demands to find another way of shrinking the
Mediterranean island’s financial system.  Downsizing its banking system will probably lead to the
island losing a “significant chunk” of Russian business,
causing changes to the Cyprus-Russia relationship and a “big
problem” for the Cypriot economy, Schmieding said.  The agreement won’t have any impact for ECB policy because
the final accord “is a fairly good deal and ultimately  Mario
Draghi  can be content with the role that the ECB has in the end
played in this,” Schmieding said, referring to the president of
the region’s central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  