-- Cyprus Bailout Fueling Bank Funding Concern on Bond Losses
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2013-03-25T15:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/cyprus-bailout-fueling-bank-funding-concern-on-bondholder-losses.html
The  European Union ’s decision to
recapitalize Cypriot banks by inflicting losses on depositors
and senior bondholders is triggering investor concern that bank
funding across the region will be hurt.  Cyprus qualified for its 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
bailout by agreeing to close Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl, also known
as Laiki Bank, the island’s second largest lender, the EU said
in a  statement . Uninsured depositors and senior bondholders will
be “bailed in,” staying in a so-called bad bank.  “This has implications for any weaker banks that get into
trouble,” said Chris Bowie, the London-based head of credit
portfolio management at Ignis Asset Management Ltd., which
oversees about $110 billion. “We’d expect to see some deposit
flight and a shift in funding towards a combination of covered
bonds, real equity and quasi-equity.”  With the exception of Denmark in 2011, senior bank
bondholders, like depositors, have avoided losses in the EU’s
financial crisis. In February 2011, Amagerbanken A/S collapsed
and senior creditors initially lost about 40 percent. It was the
first time senior bank bondholders in the EU underwent a so-
called haircut in an orderly resolution and the event left most
Danish lenders shut out of wholesale funding markets.  Default Swaps  The cost of insuring against losses on financial debt
surged over the past week amid concern senior bondholders will
be included in future bank bailouts. The Markit iTraxx Financial
Index of credit-default swaps jumped 41 basis points during the
period to 184, the highest since Nov. 16.  Swaps extended their rise today after Reuters reported that
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said euro-area
nations with large banking industries must look to restructure
and reduce their overall size.  Banks typically fund themselves with some combination of
 deposits , equity, senior and subordinate notes and covered
bonds, which are backed by a pool of high-quality assets that
stay on the lender’s balance sheet.  The consequences of the Cyprus bailout could be that banks
will be more likely to use contingent convertible bonds -- known
as CoCos -- to raise money as their ability to encumber assets
by issuing covered bonds reaches regulatory limits, Bowie said.
CoCos are designed to be converted to equity or written down if
a lender’s capital ratios fall to a stated level, helping
preserve taxpayers and more-senior creditors, including
depositors, from loss.  ‘Historic Context’  “The action Cyprus has been forced to take with regards to
its banks is considerable in a historic context,” Eva Olsson,
an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities in London, wrote in a
note. The measures could have “serious consequences” for
investors in “weaker banks throughout Europe,” she wrote.  The Cyprus bailout sets a precedent that is likely to
influence future banks resolutions, according to  Moody’s
Investors Service .  Rising pressure on sovereign balance sheets strained by
recession bodes ill for senior creditors of troubled banks,
London-based analyst Sean Marion wrote in the firm’s bi-weekly
Outlook. The strain has made them more willing to risk the
fallout from aggressive measures to share the cost of bailouts,
showing that the “landscape is shifting to the detriment of
senior bank creditors,” he wrote.  “The authorities’ willingness to endorse losses, including
insured deposits is a significant evolution in policy,” he
wrote. “The change in policy could yet cause contagion and may
increase the cost and reduce the stability of funding in other
euro-area banking systems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  