-- Dainippon Screen Lifts Offshore Procurement to Cut Costs
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2013-03-25T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/dainippon-screen-lifts-offshore-procurement-to-cut-costs.html
Dainippon Screen Manufacturing Co. (7735) ,
a Japanese maker of machines that clean semiconductor wafers,
plans to buy more materials overseas including from  China  to
help it return to profit.  Overseas procurement of components for chip equipment will
rise to about 10 percent from almost none now, President
Masahiro Hashimoto said in an interview in Kyoto yesterday.  Dainippon,  forecasting  a third annual loss in five years,
is cutting costs through reorganizing its supply chain and
reducing executive pay amid a slump in personal computer demand
that has cut global chip sales. The Kyoto-based company needs to
reduce costs by at least 10 billion yen to lower its break-even
point as sales may remain sluggish, Hashimoto said.  “We expect to see the effect fully from the second half of
next fiscal year,” Hashimoto said. Dainippon is reducing the
number of suppliers to boost volume and lower unit prices, he
said.  Orders for semiconductor-making equipment in the quarter
ending March 31 will be higher than the 29 billion yen ($306
million) in the third quarter, beating the manufacturer’s
earlier expectation that they would be unchanged, Hashimoto
said.  Demand for machines used in small- and mid-sized liquid-
crystal displays and foundries “has been strong,” Hashimoto
said. Sales of equipment to make LCDs may rise to more than 20
billion yen in the financial year ending March 2014 from about
12 billion yen this year, he said.  Shares Rise  Dainippon  rose  4.3 percent to 435 yen in Tokyo trading
yesterday. The stock has fallen 17 percent this year, compared
with a 21 percent gain in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average.  Intel (INTC)  plans to spend about $13 billion on new plants and
equipment in 2013, more than analysts had projected, it said in
January. Intel’s microprocessors run more than 80 percent of the
world’s personal computers.  Global chip sales dropped 3 percent last year to $297.6
billion, according to market researcher Gartner Inc.  Dainippon expects to post a net loss of 14 billion yen for
the year ending March 31 after a profit of 4.64 billion yen last
fiscal year, it said in February. Sales may plunge 24 percent to
190 billion yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Fenner at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net  