-- Dallas Cowboys’ Josh Brent Faces Trial in September
-- B y   T h o m a s   K o r o s e c   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/dallas-cowboys-josh-brent-faces-trial-in-september.html
Dallas  Cowboys football player Josh
Brent faces a Sept. 23 trial on a charge of intoxication
manslaughter after he was involved in a vehicular accident that
killed teammate Jerry Brown.  “That’s the date,” Debbie Denmon, a spokeswoman for
Dallas County District Attorney  Craig Watkins , said yesterday in
a phone interview.  A  Texas  grand jury in December indicted the defensive
lineman in the wake of a Dec. 8 crash in the Dallas suburb of
Irving. The charge carries a maximum sentence of 20 years in
prison, Denmon said then. Yesterday, she said she couldn’t
immediately comment on how long a term prosecutors will seek if
Brent is convicted.  The accident happened when the car, which was moving at a
high rate of speed, flipped at least once after hitting a curb,
according to police. Brent had a blood-alcohol level more than
twice the legal limit, the Dallas Morning News reported.  Brent, who was freed from jail on $100,000 bond and
required to wear an ankle bracelet that monitors his blood
alcohol level, said in a December statement he is devastated by
Brown’s death and would live with the “horrific and tragic loss
every day” for the rest of his life.  His attorney, George Milner, didn’t immediately return a
call yesterday seeking comment on the setting of the trial date.  Brent was in his third season in the National Football
League after playing at the University of  Illinois . He had
started five games last season.  Brown, who also attended Illinois, joined the Cowboys’
practice squad on Oct. 24. He had yet to appear on the active
roster.  The case is State of Texas v. Brent, F12-35545, Criminal
District Court, Dallas County, Texas (Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  