-- Denmark Reviews Bail-In Law as ‘Terrorists’ Shape Banking
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-03-26T15:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/denmark-reviews-bail-in-law-as-terrorists-shape-bank-agenda.html
As the euro area tries out its
first bank bail-in in Cyprus, the European Union nation that led
the way in burden sharing two years ago is now reviewing its
commitment to the legislation.  Denmark , whose banks hold assets about four times the size
of the $300 billion economy, may reclaim the option to bail out
its biggest banks after a government-appointed committee
recommended the adjustment to existing laws.  “To have a principle that we would never, under any
circumstances, save a bank -- that’s like saying you would never
trade with terrorists,” Michael Moeller, chairman of Denmark’s
committee on systemically important financial institutions, said
in an interview. “But what if they had an atomic bomb that
could blow up half the  United States ?”  Denmark is reconsidering its stance on bail-ins after
losing 23 percent of its banks to a real estate bubble that
burst in 2008. Banks’ average  return on equity  has fallen by 73
percent in the period, plunging the economy into a recession.
The 2011 failure of Amagerbanken A/S -- the first in the EU to
trigger senior creditor losses within a state resolution
framework -- tainted Denmark’s entire financial industry as even
 Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) ’s funding costs jumped.  The Sifi committee unveiled its recommendations this month,
naming Denmark’s six biggest banks as too big to fail. The
designation means the lenders will need to set aside as much as
5 percentage points in additional  capital . The committee also
proposed giving the regulator broader powers and requiring banks
to pay into a fund to finance potential bailouts.  ‘Another Set-up’  Danske Bank A/S, the Danish unit of  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  Jyske
Bank A/S (JYSK)  and  Sydbank A/S (SYDB) , and mortgage lenders Nykredit A/S and
BRFkredit A/S should all be named Sifis, the committee said. It
also suggested considering DLR Kredit A/S as too-big-to-fail
because of its dominant role in mortgage lending to farmers.  Returns on Danske Bank debt has fallen since the committee
released its report March 14.  The yield on the bank’s 3.875 percent 1 billion-euro note
maturing in Feb. 2017 was little changed at 1.55 percent as of
4:34 p.m. in Copenhagen. The spread to the benchmark euro
government curve narrowed two basis points to 138 basis points.  More Tools  “We need another set-up where we have even more tools than
we have now,” said Moeller, who also serves on the board of the
 central bank . “We want to keep options open because when you
have something that is very seldom, it’s not very good to have a
fixed plan that you have to use for everything.”  The  Business Ministry  will accept public feedback on the
proposals until April 19, after which the matter will be sent to
Parliament. The opposition  Conservative Party  has already
signaled it will try to block the higher capital requirements
while the Danish Bankers Association said the measures would
force banks to cut lending and imperil an economic recovery.  Gross domestic product will expand by 0.8 percent this
year, less than the 1.3 percent forecast in December, the Danish
central bank said March 20. A burst housing bubble has sent
property values plunging more than 20 percent since their 2007
peak, depressing consumption. The housing slump continued into
the fourth quarter, with prices dropping 0.5 percent from the
previous three months, the statistics agency said today.  “The housing market continues to be in a fragile state,”
 Steen Bocian ,  chief economist for Danske Bank, said in a note.
“So long as the economic uncertainty continues, there’s no good
reason to expect strong price growth or increase in turnover.”  Attracting Deposits  Business Minister Annette Vilhelmsen said the Social
Democrat-led government “generally” supports the proposals,
which also enjoy the backing of central bank Governor Lars Rohde. Holding more capital “will allow banks to fund
themselves more cheaply and to attract more deposits,” Rohde
said at a March 20 press conference.  Europe agreed to bail out Cyprus after the nation caved in
to demands that it shut down its second-largest bank and force
losses on uninsured depositors and bondholders, including senior
creditors.  The EU’s latest bank resolution proposal -- one of three
main pillars in a banking union that includes a single
supervisory authority and common  deposit insurance  -- would give
regulators bail-in powers by 2018.  Germany , the Netherlands and
 Finland  have argued in favor of an earlier implementation. The
proposal allows national authorities to resort to taxpayer-
funded bailouts after exhausting bail-in options.  2010 Pledge  Lawmakers in Denmark pledged in 2010 not to bail out banks
after taking unprecedented steps to support the industry in the
wake of the global financial crisis two years earlier. Less than
a year after passing the bail-in bill, two regional lenders
failed, shutting most of the nation’s banks out of international
funding markets as investors balked at the prospect of losses.  The government responded by passing two more bank packages
to encourage consolidation and ease pressure on bank loan books.  The Sifi committee’s recommendations would give the
government the option to save a lender without creating
incentives for banks to take excessive risk, Moeller said.  Tighter oversight, earlier intervention by the Financial
Supervisory Authority and higher  capital requirements  would
minimize the risk of moral hazard, Moeller said. So would a
requirement that senior unsecured  creditors  accept the risk of
losses or conversion of their bonds into equity, he said.  “The idea is that, if the worst happens, nobody is certain
not to lose money,” Moeller said. “Shareholders, owners of
hybrid capital, large depositors -- all can lose money if the
situation is bad enough.”  Winning Praise  Denmark’s Sifi proposals have won praise from Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. The  International Monetary Fund  said
the clarification on how much support Sifis can expect marks a
“major step forward” for Denmark.  “The government still has a reason to intervene in a
crisis should it be so required,” S&P analyst Per Tornqvist
said by phone. “What this is trying to do is to create a price
tag for that, a price tag that is higher than in the past.”  Denmark said in January it made a profit of 11.2 billion
kroner on its efforts to contain the nation’s banking crisis.
About 12 regional banks have been taken over by the state
resolution agency since 2008, while another dozen have been
absorbed by stronger rivals. The failures have been limited to
Denmark’s network of local and community banks.  The Financial Stability Co., Denmark’s resolution agency,
reported on March 22 a 611 million krone-profit for 2012 after
writedowns shrank to 201 million kroner from 4.2 billion a year
earlier. The agency, which isn’t supposed to make a profit on
unwinding banks, said it expects net income of zero this year.  “More than any other country in  Europe , Denmark has taken
the position that large depositors and large bondholders should
know they can lose money if a bank comes into problems,”
Moeller said.  Still, he said, “If you said that you would never save a
bank, nobody would believe you.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  