-- Dijsselbloem Says Euro Troubled Lenders Must Fend for Themselves
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2013-03-26T00:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/dijsselbloem-says-euro-troubled-lenders-must-fend-for-themselves.html
Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who committed taxpayer funds to take over  SNS
Reaal NV (SR)  last month, said troubled lenders in the euro area must
now fend for themselves as part of future regional rescues.  Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of 17 euro finance
ministers, said imposing losses on depositors and bondholders
can be part of the bailout toolkit after such measures were
taken to avoid default in Cyprus.  “We are looking for a way to place risks where they are
taken,” Dijsselbloem said on Dutch television program “Pauw &
Witteman” late yesterday. “Banks should strengthen their
balances -- they have to ensure they can be unwound when they
get in trouble. Next, it should be possible to make shareholders
and bond holders contribute to a rescue. That’s how we move
along. And then eventually you may get to a government
contribution. That order was reversed in the last years.”  Dijsselbloem said earlier yesterday that if ailing banks
can’t raise funds, “then we’ll talk to the shareholders and the
bondholders, we’ll ask them to contribute in recapitalizing the
bank, and if necessary the uninsured deposit holders.” Those
comments, to Reuters and the Financial Times, were confirmed
yesterday by Dijsselbloem’s spokeswoman, Simone Boitelle.  ‘Cyprus Extraordinary’  “Cyprus was an extraordinary case and that is why we went
extraordinarily far by involving even depositors holding more
than 100,000 euros,” Dijsselbloem said on the television
program.  Dijsselbloem issued a statement after his earlier comments
roiled markets already bracing for the potential of capital
flight. The euro group yesterday decided the 10 billion-euro
($12.9 billion) bailout for Cyprus will require levies of as
much as 40 percent on bank deposits above 100,000 euros.  “Cyprus is a specific case with exceptional challenges
which required the bail-in measures we have agreed upon
yesterday,” his later statement said. “Programs are tailor-
made to the situation of the country concerned and no models or
templates are used.”  The Cyprus approach contrasts with the Feb. 1 rescue of
Dutch lender SNS, which will cost taxpayers 3.7 billion euros
and subordinated bondholders their investments.  The euro weakened as much as 1.2 percent yesterday after
his comments to Reuters and the Financial Times were published,
after earlier climbing as much as 0.5 percent. It traded at
$1.2858 at 9:02 a.m. in  Tokyo , near yesterday’s four-month low
of $1.2830 . Stocks and Italian and Spanish bonds also reversed
gains.  Markets Roiled  Markets initially rallied after Cyprus dodged a disorderly
sovereign default and possible euro exit by bowing to demands to
shrink its banking system. The agreement came a week after
Cyprus rejected an initial plan to charge a levy on all deposit
holders, raising the specter of bank runs.  “I stand for the line of policy we have set out,”
Dijsselbloem said on the “Pauw & Witteman” show. “If someone
asks me what defends this approach towards Cyprus I say this is
a framework on how we are handling the reform of the financial
sector and troubled banks in several places at the same time.”  Problems should be returned to where they can be addressed
and only end up with taxpayers when no options remain, he said.
“That is what we have partially done with SNS obviously.”  Banking Union  The Dutch minister’s emphasis on national solutions come as
he and his counterparts build a European banking union that
provides for central oversight and the potential for
recapitalization of banks by bailout funds to break the vicious
circle of financial-sector and sovereign debt.  “We should aim at a situation where we will never need to
even consider direct recapitalization,” Dijsselbloem told
Reuters and Financial Times.  The existence of a banking union now would have made the
euro’s fifth bailout program unnecessary, said Alexandria Carr,
a finance lawyer with Mayer Brown LLP and former adviser to the
U.K. Treasury.  “Had the EU acted more quickly in setting up a fully
functioning banking union, the current situation in Cyprus may
have been avoided,” Carr said in an e-mailed statement.  The Dutch minister’s conflicts over bank bailout were cited
by Luxembourg Finance Minister Luc Frieden March 20, two days
after Cypriot lawmakers rejected the maligned deposit levy.
Dijsselbloem took over the euro group chairmanship from
Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker on Jan. 21.  “Mr. Juncker would probably have listened more to some
countries than the current chairman, who is doing his job very
well, but at the same time is also tainted by the heavy debate
on the rescue plans in his own country,” Frieden said in
response to a question on Luxembourg’s RTL radio.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  