-- Don’t Underestimate Johnson in ‘Tight Spot,’ Cameron Says
-- B y   E d d i e   B u c k l e
-- 2013-03-25T14:09:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/don-t-underestimate-johnson-in-tight-spot-cameron-says.html
People shouldn’t write off  Boris Johnson ’s political future after a television interview
yesterday in which the London mayor was discomfited by questions
about past indiscretions, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said.  “Never attempt to limit Boris’s ability to get out of a
tight spot,” Cameron told reporters after a speech today in
Ipswich, eastern  England .  Johnson, one of the favorites with bookmakers to succeed
Cameron as Conservative Party leader, was forced to rebuff
suggestions in an interview on BBC1’s “Andrew Marr Show”
yesterday that incidents including fabricating quotes when he
was a newspaper reporter and lying about an extramarital affair
raised questions about his integrity. Johnson was also
challenged over a 1990 phone conversation with a friend, Darius
Guppy, who wanted the private address of a journalist with whom
he was angry.  “You’re a nasty piece of work, aren’t you?” the
presenter, Eddie Mair, asked Johnson. “Interpretations you’re
putting on those things aren’t wholly fair,” Johnson said.
Voters “don’t care about phone conversations with my friends 20
years ago, they don’t care about some ludicrous so-called made-
up quote,” he said.  The topics, which have been covered in past biographies
about Johnson, are raised again in a  BBC2 documentary on the
mayor that airs today .  ‘Splendid Job’  Johnson is 5/1 second favorite with bookmaker William Hill
Plc to succeed Cameron as Tory leader, meaning a successful one-
pound ($1.52) bet would yield a five-pound profit, behind Home
Secretary Theresa May at 4/1. He won a second term as mayor last
year against the national trend, and his period in office
expires in 2016, a year after the next general election. Johnson
does not currently have a seat in the House of Commons.  “Eddie Mair did a splendid job,” Johnson was cited as
saying in London today by the Press Association news agency.
“He was perfectly within his rights to have a bash at me -- in
fact it would have been shocking if he hadn’t. If a BBC
presenter can’t attack a nasty Tory politician what’s the
world coming to?”  Johnson said the stories he was asked about yesterday were
“of quite some antiquity” and “I fully concede it wasn’t my
most blistering performance.”  The  London  mayor was asked in tonight’s BBC documentary
about his prime-ministerial ambitions.  “I think it’s a very tough job being prime minister,” the
he said. “Obviously, if the ball came loose from the back of
a scrum -- which it won’t -- of course it would be a great,
great thing to have a crack at. But it’s not going to happen.”  He told Mair yesterday that talk of him becoming the next
Tory leader are “increasingly hysterical” and “completely
nonsensical.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eddie Buckle in London at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  