-- Dudley Sees ‘Very Accommodative’ Policy on Weak Job Market
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2013-03-25T19:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/dudley-says-policy-to-be-very-accommodative-on-weak-job-market.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
President William C. Dudley said the central bank should
maintain its asset purchases as  federal budget  cuts restrain
economic growth and a labor-market recovery.  “I expect that labor market conditions will improve only
slowly and that inflation will remain muted,” Dudley said today
in a speech to the  Economic Club of New York . “Consequently, it
will be appropriate for monetary policy to remain very
accommodative.”  Dudley’s comments echo remarks by Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  on March 20 that further  labor-market  gains are needed
to consider curtailing record monetary easing. The  Federal Open
Market Committee  decided last week to maintain $85 billion of
monthly bond purchases aimed at spurring growth and reducing the
7.7 percent unemployment rate.  Dudley said strength in housing and autos shows that the
bond purchases are “gaining additional traction” and boosting
the economy more than he expected. If not for government
cutbacks, the economy would be growing even more quickly, he
said.  “I remain confident that the benefits of a stronger and
earlier economic recovery will trump the costs associated with
our unconventional monetary policy measures,” Dudley said.  He said inflation expectations “remain well anchored” and
the functioning of the government bond market “has actually
improved in recent months.” While the markets for high-yield
bonds and leveraged loans “do seem somewhat frothy,” the size
of those markets is “relatively modest” and investors aren’t
highly leveraged.  Incurring Losses  Dudley rebutted arguments that the danger of incurring
losses on its bond portfolio might prompt the Fed to delay an
exit from its easing policy.  While the Fed’s remittances to the  U.S. Treasury  “could
even fall to zero for a period” as  interest rates  rise, he
said, “Our mandate is economic not fiscal -- our job is to
return the economy to full employment and price stability.”  Dudley’s assessment of “some improvement in labor market
conditions” is less optimistic than the Fed’s pledge to
continue asset purchases until the labor market has improved
“substantially.”  The Fed last week repeated that its benchmark interest rate
would stay near zero as long as unemployment remains above 6.5
percent and the outlook for inflation is below 2.5 percent.  Numerical Thresholds  Policy makers haven’t agreed to specific numerical
thresholds for ending or reducing their purchases of mortgage-
backed securities and Treasury debt.  In response to audience questions, Dudley said that it’s
“too soon to take much cheer from the recent economic news
that’s actually been better than expected because we’ve seen
these kinds of accelerations before, and they’ve often been
short-lived.”  Dudley said the “greatest danger” to growth is tighter
fiscal policy.  “It’s clearly possible that in 2014 or even earlier we
could start to see the economy pick up steam more rapidly than
most people’s forecasts,” he said. “There are a lot of really
good things underneath the surface that are being kind of
camouflaged by the fiscal drag we’re going through at present.”  While the  unemployment rate  is “modestly lower” and
payroll growth is “a bit higher,” Dudley said in his prepared
remarks, the employment-to-population ratio and the rates of job
finding are “essentially unchanged.”  “This suggests that the labor market is far from
healthy,” he said.  ‘Sense of Progress’  Bernanke, in his press conference last week, said any
pullback would be based on “a range” of variables. Trimming
the bond-buying program would also serve as a signal to
investors of “some sense of progress,” he said.  Some measures of labor-market health have shown improvement
since the central bank began its third round of large-scale
asset purchases last September.  Monthly payroll gains have averaged almost 200,000,
compared with 133,000 in the previous five months. In February,
the economy added 236,000 jobs, and the jobless rate fell to 7.7
percent from 7.9 percent. First-time claims for  unemployment
benefits  averaged 339,800 over the past four weeks, the lowest
since February 2008.  Recession Losses  Even so, the job market is far from making up the losses it
sustained during the 18-month recession that ended in June 2009.
The economy lost 8.8 million jobs as a result of the recession,
and it has since regained 5.7 million.  Dudley said that once the economy has gained more strength,
the Fed should consider reducing the pace of purchases.  “At some point, I expect that I will see sufficient
evidence of economic momentum to cause me to favor gradually
dialing back the pace of asset purchases,” he said. “Of
course, any subsequent bad news could lead me to favor dialing
them back up again.”  The Fed’s stimulus and an improving economy have helped
push stocks to new highs, with the  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
exceeding its prior peak from October 2007.  Stocks fell today amid concern Cyprus’s bank restructuring
plan will pave the way for losses on deposits in other European
nations. The Dow lost 0.4 percent to 14,457.38 at 2:46 p.m. in
New York.  Growth Outlook  Economists in a Bloomberg survey expect the economy to grow
1.9 percent this year and 2.7 percent in 2014. Unemployment will
average 7.7 percent this year and decline to 7.2 percent next
year, according to the forecasts.  In his remarks, Dudley estimated that “significantly more
restrictive” fiscal policy would reduce gross domestic product
by 1.75 percent this year. That includes federal spending cuts,
the increase in the  payroll tax  and higher tax rates on the
highest earners, as well as tax increases associated with the
health-care overhaul.  Congress mandated $1.2 trillion in across-the-board
spending reductions, to begin this year and be spread over nine
years, as part of a 2011 deal to increase the U.S. debt limit.
The reductions are to be split almost evenly between defense and
non-defense spending.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  estimates the
cuts, known as sequestration, could subtract 0.6 percentage
point from gross domestic product in 2013, costing the economy
750,000 jobs.  The central bank lowered its target interest rate almost to
zero in December 2008 and has kept it there. The Fed’s balance
sheet has grown during three rounds of large-scale asset
purchases intended to spur the economy by pushing down long-term
rates on everything from mortgages to  car loans .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in New York at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  