-- The Benefits of Chronic Deflation
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2013-03-25T22:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/the-benefits-of-chronic-deflation.html
There is an important distinction
between good deflation caused by excess supply and bad deflation
created by deficient demand.  Good deflation is the result of new technologies that power
productivity and output as the economy grows rapidly and as
supply outpaces demand. The bad kind stems from financial crises
and deep recessions, which increase unemployment and depress
demand below the level of supply.  The Industrial Revolution began in the late 1700s. But in
the U.S. it didn’t achieve sufficient scope to drive the economy
until after the Civil War. Value added in manufacturing and
mining leaped. As bottle machines replaced glass blowers, the
price of a dozen goblets dropped to just 40 cents in 1888, from
$3.50 in 1864.  At the same time, railroads connected the nation, enhancing
productivity and supply. Real gross national product grew 4.5
percent each year from 1870 to 1898, an unrivaled rate for a
period that long, and consumption per consumer jumped 2.3
percent a year. Good deflation reigned, with wholesale prices
dropping 34 percent, a 1.7 percent annual rate of decline, and
consumer prices falling 47 percent, or 2.5 percent annually.  New Technologies  Good deflation also prevailed in the 1920s, when the new
technologies were electrification of factories and homes and
mass-produced automobiles. Electrification contributed to the
development of other goods, such as household appliances and
radio. Industrial production almost doubled in the 1920s, but
prices fell as supply outran robust demand.  By contrast, bad deflation ruled in the 1930s as the Great
Depression pushed demand well below supply. The money supply,
prices, banks and real goods and services all shrank. As prices
collapsed, the jobless rate rose to 25 percent. That depression
was truly global, affecting almost every developed country.
Industrial production dropped 45 percent in the U.S., 34 percent
in  Austria , 41 percent in  Germany , 12 percent in the U.K. and 23
percent in  Italy .  Japan  has endured bad deflation over the last two decades
after the housing and stock-market bubbles of the 1980s. But the
lack of demand wasn’t caused by a dearth of employment and
income, as in the U.S. in the early 1930s. Instead, it was a
result of the government’s delay in cleaning up financial
institutions, while consumers, and later businesses, refused to
spend their incomes.  I have been forecasting chronic good deflation of excess
supply because of today’s convergence of many significant
productivity-enhanced technologies, such as semiconductors,
computers, the Internet, telecommunications, robotics and
biotechnology, that should continue to increase output. As a
result of rapid productivity growth, fewer man-hours are needed
to produce goods and services.  At the same time, I am aware that the bad deflation of
deficient demand could occur as the result of severe and
widespread financial crises or global protectionism. Both are
clear threats. Furthermore, I expect slower global economic
growth during the next five years or so of deleveraging, for the
reasons discussed earlier in this series and in previous
columns.  With the completion of the deleveraging process later this
decade, the  federal budget   deficit  will shrink quickly, assuming
there is no war or other events that cause oversized government
spending. The resumption of meaningful economic growth will
reduce the pressure for economic stimulus and rising incomes,
and corporate profits will boost  tax revenue . Serious work on
the baby boomer-related bulge in Social Security and Medicare
costs will also reduce the deficit.  Normal Growth  That means oversized  federal spending  and deficits are
unlikely once the economy resumes normal growth, removing a
barrier to deflation. Indeed, deflation may well set in while
deleveraging and slow economic growth proceed. The Federal
Reserve’s decisions and the elimination of excess bank reserves,
however, could create problems.  In his speech at Jackson Hole,  Wyoming ,  last August , Fed
Chairman Ben Bernanke said a “potential cost of additional
securities purchases is that substantial further expansions of
the balance sheet could reduce public confidence in the Fed’s
ability to exit smoothly from its accommodative policies at the
appropriate time. Even if unjustified, such a reduction in
confidence might increase the risk of a costly unanchoring of
inflation expectations, leading in turn to financial and
economic instability.”  This is a serious threat. Bernanke has stated that the Fed
could easily get rid of excess  reserves  by agreeing to sell
securities from its $3 trillion portfolio. But things would look
different about five years from now, when deleveraging is
completed and real growth moves from the current rate of about 2
percent per year to its long-run trend of about 3.5
percent. Even then, it would take at least several years to
deploy excess capacity and labor.  In any event, when Wall Street gets the slightest hint that
the Fed is thinking about removing the excess liquidity,
 interest rates  will leap and the danger of an economic relapse
will seem very real. Political pressure on the Fed might be
intense. After about 10 years of deleveraging and slow growth,
the central bank might be accused of taking away the punch bowl
before the party even gets started.  This recalls the 1937-1938 recession. In 1936, with the
economy a long way from full recovery after the 1929-1933
collapse and prices still below their 1929 levels, the Fed and
President Franklin Roosevelt worried about a return of rapid
inflation. So they tightened monetary and fiscal policy. Real
GNP dropped 11 percent. That was less than the 36 percent
decline during the Great Depression but more than twice as much
as the 4.7 percent drop in gross domestic product in the recent
recession.  Excess Reserves  This time, the central bank may be able to chart a smooth
course. It could, for example, simply let excess bank reserves
decline by not reinvesting its huge pile of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities as they mature.  That way, there would be no shock announcement of the Fed
shifting course. But there remains a possibility that the Fed’s
removal of excess bank reserves could precipitate an increase in
interest rates and a very deflationary recession and financial
crisis. The Fed, however, might succumb to political and
investor pressures to delay the removal of excess reserves. And
that could strain the central bank’s credibility and result in
considerable financial difficulties.  Growth in real GDP has averaged only 2.1 percent a year in
this recovery. This pace has led many economists to join me in
forecasting continuing slow growth of about 2 percent.  We point to the deleveraging of the private sector,
increased government regulation, fiscal restraint and global
protectionism, as well as other causes, such as the aging
population, rising  health-care costs , growing income inequality,
high federal-government debt and poor levels of education.  Furthermore, theory follows fact, and the slow recovery and
the 1.6 percent average annual real GDP gains over the last 12
years have spawned theories that the weak pace will persist
indefinitely. Recall that in the mid-2000s, steady economic
growth with low inflation rates were held as evidence that
central banks had essentially eliminated business cycles and had
led us to a “Great Moderation.”  Robert J. Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University,
maintains that all the growth-driving technologies, such as
cheap energy, urbanization, the railroad and electricity, are
fully exploited. Recent developments, such as the Internet,
computers and mobile phones, have induced only short-term growth
spurts, he says, and no big new technologies are likely.  I believe, however, that once deleveraging is completed,
long-term trend growth of about 3.5 percent a year will
resume. Biotechnology, robotics, the Internet,
telecommunications, semiconductors, computers and other
relatively new technologies promise tremendous productivity and
economic growth.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and the author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment
Strategies for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The
opinions expressed are his own. This is the fourth in a five-
part series. Read  Part 1 ,  Part 2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 5 .)  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  