-- Dumbed-Down Math and Other Perils of Online College
-- B y   N o r m a n   M a t l o f f
-- 2013-03-25T22:30:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/the-perils-of-an-online-university-education.html
(Corrects credit status of calculus class in eighth
paragraph.)  For the first time, state
legislators in the U.S. may  require  their public universities to
grant students credit for online courses given by outside
providers.  A bill  introduced  in the  California  Senate would extend
this concession only when a required class is full and not
offered online at the college. The legislation, which is
expected to be adopted in some form, has been hailed nationally
as a leap for massive open online courses -- MOOCs, for short.  Advocates pitch MOOCs as classes for the masses, enabling a
resident of, say, the Gobi Desert to study nuclear physics.
Those who oppose the spread of such an idealistic movement are
dismissed as Luddites who wish to restrict higher education to a
privileged few. But if altruism is the driver, why were two
major purveyors of MOOCs, Coursera Inc. and Udacity Inc.,
established as for-profit companies? (A third new venture,  edX ,
is a not-for-profit consortium.)  One can’t blame public officials for looking for cheaper
modes of instruction. The ventures can also generate revenue for
colleges that market their content to the online vendors.  But the U.S. university system is a national  crown jewel ,
one of few remaining advantages we have over our economic
competitors. We should carefully consider the quality of the
MOOCs before eviscerating this sector for some short-sighted
gain. Rather than giving more young Americans a quicker path to
a college degree, we might end up dumbing down the value of that
piece of paper.  Cursory Courses  Even a cursory look at typical Web-based courses shows them
to be just that -- cursory. They tend to teach mere outlines of
the subject, lacking the thought-provoking nature of a
curriculum delivered in person. In exams, MOOCs often replace
probing essays or mathematical analysis with simple, multiple-
choice questions.  In fairness, the MOOC companies offer a number of
interesting specialty courses, valuable for nonstudents wishing
to acquire an overview of the subject matter. Yet caution is
 required  as MOOC leaders seek full university credit for many of
their courses.  Consider the  University of Pennsylvania  calculus course
offered through Coursera, one of the first MOOCs recommended for
college credit by the  American Council on Education . The
material is attractively presented, but there is only a total of
15 hours of lecture for the entire course -- compared with about
45 hours for the regular Penn calculus course. Are the MOOC
advocates really claiming the same quality is achieved? And
though the homework problems are good, there are far fewer of
them than in a traditional class.  Also disturbing are the grade distributions in the Penn
MOOC calculus exams: Instead of the usual bell-shaped curve, the
grades are skewed far to the right, with the most common scores
being perfect or almost so. Although  Coursera  might interpret
this as validating the effectiveness of the MOOC approach, the
more likely explanation is that it reflects the lighter demands
placed on the students.  Some proponents of online instruction have claimed that it
could act as a leveler for the poor, whose high schools have few
or no Advanced Placement courses. This may ease liberal guilt,
but it’s a cruel hoax. Lacking the academic street smarts of the
more privileged students, disadvantaged young people need the
 face-to-face  educational experience even more. For this
population, the chances of passing the Advanced Placement
calculus exam based on a MOOC are probably very slim.  Roadshow Test  If online interaction is as good as claimed, why are chief
executive officers of MOOC companies going on roadshows to sell
their products? Interactive webinars should suffice, shouldn’t
they? The roadshows, I was told by an enthusiastic colleague,
provide the MOOC CEOs with “real interaction with the
faculty.” So professors need “real interaction” with MOOC
executives but not with MOOC students?  Yes, placing instructional material online should be
encouraged. All of my class materials -- homework, exams and
full open-source textbooks -- are  available  on the Web. And I am
not defending the age-old system of professors writing on the
blackboard while students dutifully take notes, which is
certainly not my approach. But I teach in person, not
impersonally to thousands of unseen, unknown people around the
globe.  An old Woody Allen joke sums it up: “I took a course in
speed reading, and I finished ‘War and Peace’ in 20 minutes. It
involves  Russia .” If you think that the CliffsNotes version of
Leo Tolstoy is quite enough, or that chemistry is little more
than memorizing the periodic table, or that economics consists
of learning a few acronyms, then MOOCs are for you. I just hope
you aren’t a university president.  (Norman Matloff is a professor of computer science at the
 University of California , Davis. The opinions expressed are his
own. Read his previous Bloomberg View columns  here  and  here .)  To contact the writer of this article:
Norman Matloff at  matloff@cs.ucdavis.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 