-- East European Banks Face More Credit Weakening in 2013, S&P Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-03-25T13:23:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/east-european-banks-face-more-credit-weakening-in-2013-s-p-says.html
Eastern European  credit quality  may
worsen further this year as the euro area’s economic weakness
hampers demand for loans and harms the finances of lenders’
parent banks, Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said.  Slovenian and Hungarian banks are most vulnerable, S&P
analysts led by Paris-based Pierre Gautier wrote today in a
research note. Non-performing loans in those countries, which
are near or exceed 20 percent, will probably grow, they said.  Lenders in eastern Europe, including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , have
struggled to contain the effect of the debt crisis in the euro
area, the main destination for export from the continent’s
former communist nations. New capital and liquidity terms for
western lenders, which control three quarters of the region’s
banking assets, have curbed credit to companies and households.  “We continue to view the Czech, Slovak and Polish banking
sectors as the strongest in the region,” the S&P analysts
wrote. “In other countries -- notably Slovenia and  Hungary  --we
expect the credit quality of rated banks to continue to be under
pressure, despite being at low levels after various downgrades
in past years.”  Polish, Czech and Slovak banks have sufficient buffers to
absorb a likely increase bad debts and “should remain
adequately profitable,” S&P said. Slovenian lenders, which have
suffered because of a slump in the  construction industry , and
Hungarian banks, which are burdened by Swiss franc-denominated
 mortgage loans , will probably continue to lose money, it wrote.  New Model  Most of the region’s banks, which relied on loans from
western parents in the last decade to finance expansion, will
have to change their business model in the next two years by
collecting more local-currency deposits, better matching the
maturity and currencies of their assets and liabilities and
accumulating more liquid assets, according to S&P.  “This rebalancing will take longer for foreign-owned banks
in Hungary, as well as banks in Croatia, Slovenia and  Romania ,
as their loan-to-deposit ratios exceeded 150 percent until very
recently,” S&P said. “The historically fundamentally sound
funding position of Czech and Slovak banks, and also top Polish
players, put them in a more favorable position and do not
require material adjustments to their business model.”  Slovenian banks are the most vulnerable to funding risks,
especially when long-term refinancing operations from the
European Central Bank mature next year, the ratings company
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  