-- EasyJet Ends Alitalia’s Monopoly Over Rome-Milan Route
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-03-25T12:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/easyjet-ends-alitalia-s-monopoly-over-rome-milan-route.html
Alitalia  SpA’s monopoly over
flights linking Rome Fiumicino and Milan Linate airports ends
today as discount operator  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  commences services
between Italy’s capital city and its biggest financial center.  Europe ’s second-largest low-cost carrier will offer five
daily services with a lead-in fare of 59.50 euros ($77.19) per
round-trip. Alitalia averages 60 weekday connections, every 15
minutes at peak times, with return fares starting at 89 euros.  The Italian flight comes a week after EasyJet began
services from London’s Gatwick airport to  Moscow. (IAG)  Both routes
are expected to attract a high proportion of business clients,
advancing Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall strategy of
boosting profit by tapping markets in which people tend to book
later -- and pay more -- than the company’s leisure passengers.  “Routes like this have been dominated by the old flag
carriers, so for an airline like EasyJet to come in is a pretty
big step-change,” said Donal O’Neill, an analyst at  Goodbody
Stockbrokers  in Dublin with a “buy” rating on the stock. “The
nature of the market is corporate and it expands their direct
links with corporates, which is the angle they’re going for.”  Alitalia Pressure  While ranking behind Dublin-based  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) 
among the region’s discount airlines, EasyJet began trading on
Britain’s benchmark FTSE 100 Index last week after surging 35
percent for the year, valuing the company at 4.09 billion pounds
($6.3 billion). The stock rose as much as 2.6 percent today.  The entry of EasyJet onto Italy’s key business route
ratchets up pressure on Alitalia, where  Andrea Ragnetti  quit as
chief executive officer last month after the 12-month loss
widened to 280 million euros from 69 million euros in 2011. The
Rome-based company is targeting break even this year.  “EasyJet is playing a central role in opening up
significant markets for European consumers,” McCall said in a
statement today. The carrier has 24 aircraft based in Italy,
including six at Fiumicino.  The airline was one of five that bid for the Milan-Rome
connection last year. Italy’s AGCM competition authority said
Oct. 25 that the U.K. carrier was “most likely to ensure an
effective competitive constraint” on a route where Alitalia had
been ordered to give up seven slots at Linate as part of the
price for approval of its 2008 merger with Air One SpA.  New Prices  The route is  Italy ’s second busiest after that between
Fiumicino and Catania on the island of Sicily, according to
figures from the Enac, Italy’s civil aviation authority.  The average one-way ticket cost between 100 and 130 euros
in the summer 2011 season, according to AGCM documents cited by
Luton, England-based EasyJet. Alitalia has since rolled out a
new pricing structure with fares spanning 89 euros per round-
trip to 289 euros each way for a flexible, refundable booking.  Competition on the route has also been heightened by the
introduction last year of trains operated by  Nuovo Trasporto
Viaggiatori  on a high-speed network also used by Trenitalia, the
main operating unit of government-owned Ferrovie dello Stato.  EasyJet attracted 10 million corporate travelers in 2012,
or 16 percent of its total traffic, with new opportunities
arising as it gains credibility with business passengers and
regulators, according to McCall. Full-service carriers like
Alitalia and  Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  are also trimming capacity,
dropping 800,000 seats on EasyJet routes in the first quarter.  EasyJet, which flew more than 12.5 million people to, from
and within Italy last year, aims to carry about 350,000 people
in the first 12 months of operations between Rome and Milan
using 156-seat  Airbus SAS (EAD)  A319 planes.  Alitalia flew 1.4 million people on the Milan-Rome route in
2012, spokeswoman Speranza Giovanna said by e-mail.  “As legacy carriers retrench you’ll see more and more of
this,” O’Neill said. “EasyJet has a track record of delivering
so you can bet that they’ll run that route profitably.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in  London  at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  