-- Hedge Funds in Chesapeake Fight Seek to End Intervention
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2013-03-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/hedge-funds-in-chesapeake-bond-fight-ask-to-end-intervention-1-.html
Hedge funds  holding $250 million in
Chesapeake Energy Corp. debt asked a judge to withdraw from
litigation between the company and bond trustee  Bank of New York
Mellon  Corp. over redemption of bonds.  The hedge funds, which were allowed to intervene in the
matter in  Manhattan  federal court, asked U.S. District Judge
Paul Engelmayer yesterday for permission to withdraw, saying it
will reduce the number of parties involved and avoid potentially
duplicative filings.  “Trial will be streamlined by having a single defendant,
with one set of direct and cross-examinations,” Steven Bierman,
an attorney for the group, said in a court filing.  Chesapeake and indenture trustee BNY Mellon are scheduled
to face off at trial beginning April 23 over the gas producer’s
disputed claim it met a deadline to redeem $1.3 billion in bonds
early at par, or 100 cents on the dollar. Engelmayer gave
Chesapeake and  BNY Mellon  until 5 p.m. tomorrow to object to the
the funds’ request.  Chesapeake, the second-biggest  natural gas producer  in the
U.S., issued the early redemption notice on March 15. A week
earlier, the Oklahoma City-based company sued BNY Mellon,
seeking a court order that it had until that date to issue the
notice and avoid making a $400 million “make whole” payment to
investors.  Investors in the group include Ares Management LLC,
Aurelius Capital Management LP, Carlson Capital LP, Monarch
Alternative Capital LP, Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, and
River Birch Capital LLC.  Bierman, the group’s attorney, didn’t respond to a phone
message and e-mail seeking comment. BNY Mellon on March 23
retained his firm, Sidley Austin LLP, to represent the bank in
the lawsuit, he said in his court filing.  Richard Ziegler, an attorney for Chesapeake, didn’t return
a phone message yesterday seeking comment about the withdrawal
request by the investor group.  The case is  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  v. Bank of  New York 
Mellon Trust Co., 13-cv-01582, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  