-- Hedge Fund Manager Who Shorted Aviva Stock Now Bets on Bonds
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2013-03-25T11:22:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/hedge-fund-manager-who-shorted-aviva-s-stock-now-bets-on-bonds.html
Sohail Malik, a hedge  fund manager 
at  ECM Asset Management Ltd. , made 13.5 percent shorting  Aviva (AV/) 
Plc stock after correctly betting the firm would cut its
dividend. Now he’s looking for returns in the  insurer’s bonds .  Malik, 39, who runs London-based ECM’s European Special
Situations fund and usually invests in bonds, was monitoring
Aviva’s balance sheet before its full-year results and couldn’t
see where the cash to fund its dividend was coming from.  “There was a simplistic view from the equity market that
the reason why you buy Aviva is because of the high dividend
yield,” he said in a telephone interview. “But the numbers
didn’t make any sense and with the arrival of a new CEO, there
was a feeling he’d want to get the bad news out of the way.”  Aviva  shares  dropped as much as 16 percent on March 7, when
Chief Executive Officer  Mark Wilson , who took over at the
beginning of the year, cut the insurer’s dividend as he pledged
to make the firm more resilient to the European sovereign debt
crisis. The efforts by Wilson, who followed London-based  RSA
Insurance Group Plc (RSA)  in cutting dividends, to bolster Aviva’s
capital reserves, will lift returns on its bonds, Malik said.  “Aviva has had its troubles, but it has been in
deleveraging mode and disposing of non-core assets for some time
now,” Malik said. “That helps solvency and makes it a self-
healing story. We’ve always been a fan of the company from a
credit perspective.”  Aviva’s Bonds  Malik said he bought London-based Aviva’s 4.7291 percent
perpetual bonds in the third quarter of last year when they were
yielding about 15 percent. The bonds are now yielding 7.34
percent, according to Bloomberg generic prices, and Malik said
he expects the price to rise to par when they’re callable next
November.  Malik’s fund returned 9.75 percent last year net of fees,
beating the 343-member Eurekahedge European Hedge Fund Index,
which returned 6.8 percent in 2012.  ECM, which manages $9.5 billion of assets, set up the
European Special Situations fund in November 2010 to take
advantage of opportunities presented by the European sovereign
debt crisis. Malik, a former trader at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
runs the fund with Amit Staub. He declined to comment on the
fund’s assets before its three-year anniversary this year.  Wilson announced he would cut directors’ bonuses to zero
for 2012 and will freeze pay next year for 400 top managers
after reducing the firm’s second-half dividend 44 percent as the
U.K.’s second biggest insurer posted a 3.05 billion-pound ($4.6
billion) net loss related to the sale of its U.S. division last
year. Aviva, which has more euro-region investments than any
other U.K. competitor, said the asset sales over the last six
months reduced the  cash flow  used to fund its dividend, making
the payout unsustainable.  Mapfre Bonds  Aviva isn’t the only insurer of interest to Malik. He’s
also holding Madrid-based  Mapfre SA (MAP) ’s 5.921 percent lower Tier 2
bonds after buying them in the third quarter of last year when
they were trading below 60 cents on the euro. The bonds rose 0.3
percent to 90.05 cents today.  “We thought the market was under appreciating the strength
of the balance sheet and it was just in the wrong
neighborhood,” Malik said, referring to the firm’s listing in
 Spain . “It’s got global presence, plus healthy growth dynamics
within  Latin America  and the U.S. We still like it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  