-- EFG-Hermes Takeover by QInvest Mired in Delays as Deadline Nears
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i
-- 2013-03-25T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/efg-hermes-says-qinvest-takeover-deal-set-to-expire-on-may-4.html
The takeover of  EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE (HRHO) , Egypt’s biggest investment bank, by Qatar’s QInvest LLC is
mired in delays almost a year after the transaction was agreed.  The deal is set to expire on May 4 unless it receives a so-
called no objection from Egypt’s regulator on the transfer of
its assets to Qatar, Hanzada Nessim, investor-relations manager
at Cairo-based EFG-Hermes, said yesterday by telephone. The
regulator hasn’t given a date for a decision, with the May
deadline being a year since the transaction was announced.  QInvest, a unit of  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIBK) , and EFG-Hermes plan
to create an investment bank with operations in the  Middle East ,
Africa and  Turkey , as well as southern and southeastern Asia.
The takeover would include EFG’s main investment-banking, asset-
management and brokerage businesses, and exclude its private-
equity business and Credit Libanais SAL unit.  EFG-Hermes’s co-chief executives, Yasser Al Mallawany and
Hassan Heikal, are also defendents alongside former Egyptian
president  Hosni Mubarak ’s two sons, Alaa and  Gamal Mubarak , and
five others on charges of illicit gains related to the 2007 sale
of  El Watany Bank of Egypt . The trial began in July 2012.  “I don’t think the deal will go through before the lawsuit
is finalized,” Hany Genena, head of research at Cairo-based
Pharos Securities Brokerage, said yesterday by telephone. “It
is not clear when the lawsuit will end.”  The terms of the deal include a four Egyptian pound per
share dividend once it is complete.  EFG’s shares were down 1.3 percent at close in Cairo
yesterday. The bank’s shares are down 6.3 percent so far this
year, compared with a 3.9 percent for EGX 30 Benchmark Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  