-- Egypt Prosecutor Summons Opposition Over Weekend Clashes
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2013-03-25T14:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/egypt-prosecutor-summons-opposition-over-weekend-clashes.html
Egyptian prosecutors summoned four
opposition leaders over violence outside the Muslim
Brotherhood’s Cairo headquarters, a day after President Mohamed Mursi warned he may take action to “protect the nation.”  Head of the Egyptian Social Democratic Party Mohamed Abu
El-Ghar and leading National Salvation Front member Mahmoud El-
Alaily were among those summoned after clashes on March 22
between opponents and supporters of Islamist-backed Mursi, said
Tarek Abu Zaid, a senior official with the Southern Cairo
Prosecutor’s office, in a faxed statement today.  Members of the Muslim Brotherhood, which backed Mursi for
the presidency, yesterday lodged a complaint against several
opposition figures, the state-run Ahram Gate reported. The list
includes former presidential candidate and lawyer Khaled Ali and
blogger Alaa Abdel-Fattah, Ahram Gate said. The unrest left more
than 200 people injured.  Mursi is facing growing discontent among a secularist and
youth opposition that says he has sold out the nation’s
interests for those of the Brotherhood. His critics say little
has changed for the better since the 2011 uprising that toppled
 Hosni Mubarak  and brought him to power.  “This is the time to say enough Mursi, you have broken all
of your promises with no plan for reform,” the April 6 Youth
Movement said in a  statement on its facebook page  today. “We
are seeing nothing but more corruption, chaos, poverty, price
hikes, unemployment and thuggery.” It called for mass
demonstrations on April 6.  Defense Minister Abdelfatah Al-Seesi said all elements of
society must unite in face of “the economic, social and
security challenges” facing Egypt, in a statement carried by
the state-run Middle East News Agency. Al-Seesi in January
warned Egypt might “collapse” under the weight of its turmoil.  Mursi also said yesterday that “necessary measures” would
be taken against politicians shown to be involved in what he
described as violence and rioting.  Former telecommunications minister Hazem Abdel Azim, and
political activist Khaled Telima were the two other opposition
members summoned today. It wasn’t immediately clear if all of
those listed in the Muslim Brotherhoods complaint would
eventually be summoned by the prosecutor.  Meanwhile, the Court of Cassation,  Egypt ’s highest
appellate court, ordered the retrial of former Oil Minister
Sameh Fahmy, setting aside a 15-year prison sentence, according
to MENA. The decision to retry Fahmy was the latest in a number
of reversals of rulings against Mubarak-era officials.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net ;
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  