-- Egypt Falls Out With Obama Dealing With Sputtering Growth
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2013-03-25T06:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/egypt-falls-out-with-obama-dealing-with-slowest-gdp-since-1990s.html
Cairo University echoed with cheers
in June 2009 when President  Barack Obama  addressed his audience
with the Muslim greeting, assalamu aleikum, peace be upon you.  The goodwill didn’t last. Four years later, Egyptians
increasingly assail the U.S. for backing Islamist President
Mohamed Mursi, the nation’s first democratically elected leader,
as they did when  Hosni Mubarak  ran  Egypt  with American support.  In Cairo’s  Tahrir Square , blood-red letters on a white
banner read: “Obama Supports The Dictator Mursi.” A sign on
the speakers’ platform adds: “Down with Mursi, America’s
agent.”  Obama’s talk of a “new beginning” between Muslims and the
U.S. has been swamped in Egypt by economic dysfunction and
political polarization between Islamist and secular leaders. As
investors flee and Egyptians suffer, what the president called a
“cycle of suspicion and discord” has delayed financial aid and
left Egypt drifting toward bankruptcy.  “People are frustrated here, full of anger, especially
youngsters,” said  Anwar Sadat , the nephew of the Egyptian
president assassinated in 1981 and the leader of a minor
opposition party. “The truth is we are in trouble.”  U.S. Doubt  In the U.S., lawmakers who doubt Mursi’s commitment to
democracy are concerned that new arms shipments could be turned
against  Israel . In Egypt, the president welcomed in 2009 with a
cry of “Barack Obama, we love you,” is now seen by many as
just another leader who puts American interests above Egypt’s
needs. A  Gallup survey  released March 13 showed Egyptians
disapprove of U.S. leadership by a 62 percent to 17 percent
margin.  Optimism that Mubarak’s overthrow would bring the country’s
83 million people a better life is unraveling. As part of a
broad cost-cutting initiative, the government announced March 19
plans to effectively ration supplies of subsidized bread, a
dietary staple, and cooking fuel. A similar move sparked deadly
riots during an abortive 1977 economic-liberalization campaign.  Mursi’s failure to deliver stability and rising living
standards also has buffeted investors. Egypt’s benchmark  EGX30
stock index  is down more than 20 percent since the January 2011
uprising that toppled Mubarak. The premium investors demand for
holding Egyptian government debt has roughly doubled. And
foreign investment has sagged to $2.1 billion from its $13.2
billion peak five years ago.  U.S. Stake  The U.S. has a big stake in Egypt’s transition. The North
African country and Jordan remain the only Arab nations with
formal peace treaties with Israel, and the Egyptian military
polices the strategic  Sinai Peninsula . Egypt grants preferential
passage to the U.S. Navy through the  Suez Canal , giving American
warships in the Mediterranean a shortcut to the  Persian Gulf .
Mursi and the Brotherhood have repeatedly said they would honor
Egypt’s international agreements.  Both the prospects for democracy in the Arab world’s most-
populous nation and the U.S. goal of defusing regional tensions
hinge on Egypt’s  economy . Gross domestic product has grown less
than 2 percent the last two years, its slowest pace in two
decades. Unemployment is 13 percent, and  inflation  has almost
doubled since November to 8.2 percent, according to the central
bank.  Chronic violence and polarization has undercut growth
efforts, prompting Mursi yesterday to say he may have to take
action “to protect this country.”  Military Aid  Though Egypt is the fifth-largest recipient of American
foreign assistance, more than 80 percent of the $1.56 billion
total U.S. aid goes to the Egyptian military, including F-16
fighters and M1A1 tanks manufactured by  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)   This year’s help also was delayed. Only this month did the
U.S. release $250 million in economic support. Since Mursi’s
June 2012 election, Congress has grown increasingly skeptical of
Egypt’s embrace of democracy and reliability as a security
partner. Lawmakers’ worries mirror those of many Egyptians who
say the U.S. isn’t doing enough to curb the Islamist
government’s authoritarian leanings.  Mursi’s Nov. 22 claim of temporary immunity from judicial
review and his efforts to seize control of the independent  labor
movement  and punish journalists have sparked talk of renewed
dictatorship. Senator  James Inhofe  of  Oklahoma , the top
Republican on the Armed Services Committee, in January  labeled 
Egypt’s president “an enemy.”  In a March 5 interview with NPR, Secretary of State  John Kerry  described U.S. economic aid as “minuscule,” adding: “We
could pay a much higher price down the road if Egypt is in
turmoil and chaos and the region feels those implications.”  Declining Reserves  The U.S. outlay is dwarfed by Egypt’s needs. Since the
revolution, Egyptian reserves have dwindled to $13.5 billion
from $36 billion, leaving in government coffers enough money to
cover perhaps three months of imports.  In Cairo earlier this month, Kerry called economic
improvement “paramount, essential, urgent.” Yet the $250
million in economic assistance that the U.S. is giving Egypt
this year is less than one-third the $815 million it provided in
1998, when the economy was  growing  at 7.5 percent and reserves
were 50 percent larger.  “This is the best we can do at the moment,” said Steven Cook, a senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations . “I
don’t know what’s worse: delivering a paltry sum that’s not
going to make much of a difference or delivering nothing at
all.”  ‘Auto Pilot’  Michele Dunne, who was on President  George W. Bush ’s
National Security Council staff, said policy toward the Arab
nation has been on “auto pilot” since 2011.  “We should be doing more economically for Egypt, but it’s
not a question of just throwing cash budget aid at the Egyptian
government,” she said. “They’ll just blow through that in a
month.”  The U.S. is expanding the Qualifying Industrial Zone
program, which allows Egyptian companies to export goods to the
U.S. on a duty-free basis so long as they use a specified
percentage of Israeli components. Dunne said the U.S. could do
more to expand trade.  In January, the country  imported  $136.9 million worth of
Egyptian goods, less than half as much as in the same month
three years ago.  Magdi Tolba , chairman of clothing exporter Cairo Cotton
Center, has felt the decline.  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the second-largest
U.S. department store chain and his biggest customer at about
$20 million in annual orders, stopped doing business with Cairo
Cotton in January 2011 amid the anti-Mubarak protests.  Encouraging Companies  Tolba, 55, has cut his 3,900-worker payroll to 3,000. He
said U.S. officials should have promoted stability in Egypt by
encouraging companies to trade.  “The U.S. government could have done more to stop the
violence by supporting the economy,” he said.  More important is a $4.8 billion International Monetary
Fund loan, which the government has been negotiating for months.
Public resistance to the tax increases and subsidy cuts that the
fund says are needed to put the economy on sound footing has
delayed final agreement.  The fund’s seal-of-approval is critical to unlocking $14.5
billion more in aid from other donors and reassuring investors.  “There is significant willingness from the U.S.A. and
other countries to help Egypt, but in the end, aid is of limited
value unless Egypt’s government sets the right conditions to
maximize the aid which it receives,” said Angus Blair, founder
of the Signet Institute, a Cairo-based regional research group.  U.S. Outrage  In Cairo’s Garden City neighborhood the American embassy is
girded by barbed-wire obstacles and helmeted Egyptian riot
police. Tear gas often wafts over the compound’s high walls. On
March 9, two protesters died in clashes in nearby Tahrir Square
after a court acquitted most of the police officers charged in
the February 2012 deaths of demonstrators in Port Said.  At home, the Obama administration has faced opposition to
smoothing Egypt’s post-revolutionary path. A 2011 Obama promise
to forgive $1 billion in Egyptian debt is stalled in Congress.
Republican lawmakers, such as Senator Rand Paul of  Kentucky ,
have opposed additional funds for Mursi, who referred to Jews in
2010 as “the descendants of apes and pigs.” He later said the
remarks were in response to Israeli actions toward Palestinians,
an explanation which did little to stem U.S. outrage.  U.S. help, already conditioned on Egypt’s continued
adherence to its 1979 treaty with Israel, should be tied to
democratic milestones, such as preserving an independent
judiciary and a free press, some in the Egyptian opposition say.  Democratic Commitment  “What we need is a commitment to democracy,” said  Amre Moussa , a leader of the National Salvation Front. “But
democracy is not just the ballot box.”  Egypt could soon become a bigger headache for Obama. The
government is appealing a court ruling that invalidated Mursi’s
call for parliamentary elections next month, leaving the
political landscape unsettled.  Amid such tumult, there are limits to U.S. influence.  “There’s a storm going on within Egypt with profoundly
high stakes for all concerned,” said former State Department
official  Jon Alterman . “Our ability to move that storm is very
small and our ability to be heard over it comes and goes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt at 
 choyt2@bloomberg.net  