-- Telefonica Falls After $1.3 Billion Sale of Treasury Shares
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-03-26T18:39:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/telefonica-to-sell-1-billion-euros-of-treasury-stock-to-cut-debt.html
Telefonica SA (TEF) , taking advantage of
an 18 percent increase by its shares in the past month, raised
about 975 million euros ($1.3 billion) after selling treasury
stock to reduce the Spanish carrier’s debt.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  helped Telefonica sell all its
90.1 million treasury shares, or a stake of just less than 2
percent, at 10.80 euros apiece, the Madrid-based company said
today. Telefonica  shares  fell 5 percent to close at 10.68 euros
on the Madrid exchange, the steepest decline since August.  With pressure from credit  rating companies  easing after
asset disposals last year including a stake in its German unit,
Telefonica has halted plans for an initial public offering of
its Latin American business. Still, with 51.3 billion euros in
net debt -- more than its market value -- Telefonica remains
 Europe ’s most indebted phone company.  “It’s a pretty good deal,” said Andres Bolumburu, a
Madrid-based analyst at Banco de Sabadell. “As stock markets
rattle due to new European concerns triggered by the  crisis in
Cyprus , Telefonica decided to sell now and reap gains obtained
earlier this year.”  In addition to the sale proceeds, Telefonica may also post
a net capital gain of as much as 70 million euros, said Borja Mijangos, a Madrid-based analyst at Interdin Bolsa. The company
didn’t disclose whether it will book a gain.  Acquisition Spree  “The transaction will allow the company to substantially
reduce debt,” Mijangos said. “Still, the company will need to
continue reducing its leverage.”  The cost of insuring the company’s bonds using credit-
default swaps rose 0.9 percent to 234 basis points, which
compares with a record high of 573 basis points in June last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The derivatives pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A basis point on
a contract protecting 10 million euros of debt for five years is
equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  After having spent $85 billion in acquisitions since taking
over in 2000, Chief Executive Officer Cesar Alierta had to
cancel dividend payments last year to save about 10 billion
euros as pressure from credit rating companies rose. Telefonica
sold its call-center Atento, part of its China Unicom ( Hong
Kong ) Ltd. stake and shares in its German business. The phone
company also announced plans to swap 2 billion euros in
preferred shares for bonds and treasury stock.  Net Debt  Telefonica, seeking to reduce net debt by more than 4
billion euros this year, is following companies such as  Repsol
SA (REP) ,  Spain ’s biggest oil company, and builder Actividades de
Construccion & Servicios SA, to sell treasury shares.  Alierta said in February he wants to cut Telefonica’s net
debt to “comfortably” below 2.35 times operating income before
depreciation and amortization this year, from 2.36 times at the
end of 2012.  Telefonica plans to sell non-core assets such as mobile-
phone towers.  Abertis Infraestructuras SA (ABE) , whose businesses
expand from toll-roads to airports and telecommunications, said
last month it’s in talks with Telefonica,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 France Telecom SA (FTE) ’s Orange to buy more than 1,000 mobile-phone
towers mostly in Europe.  Separately, Telefonica reached an agreement with unions
today to extend a collective bargaining agreement that will
prevent workers from further layoffs. The pact includes a 1
percent salary raise for each of 2013 and 2014, Jose Luis
Paniagua, a spokesman at the UGT union, said in a telephone
interview.  Telefonica won’t contribute to part of the  pension plan  for
the unit’s more than 20,000 employees in Spain for a period of
15 months, a measure that will help the company achieve about 80
million euros in savings, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  