-- Eletropaulo Tops Short Sales as Expenses Surge: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-03-25T18:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/eletropaulo-tops-short-sales-as-expenses-surge-corporate-brazil.html
Eletropaulo Metropolitana
Eletricidade de Sao Paulo SA (ELPL4)  is  Brazil ’s most shorted stock,
signaling investors expect the company to plunge further after
the government forced it to cut prices and its costs surged.  The ratio of borrowed shares -- an indication of short
selling -- in Brazil’s largest power distributor is almost 25
percent, the highest among companies on the benchmark Bovespa
index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The ratio reached almost
30 percent, the maximum level allowed, on Feb. 26, the day the
Sao Paulo-based company reported quarterly earnings.  Eletropaulo is struggling with ballooning costs after the
government forced it to cut electricity prices by 9.3 percent
even as its own expenses to buy the power surged. The move
triggered a selloff that made it the second-worst utility in the
824-member MSCI  emerging markets   index  in the past year,
returning 73 percent for short sellers. Eletropaulo risks
breaching debt covenants for a second quarter as cash flow drops
and costs rise, analysts at JPMorgan Chase & Co. and HSBC
Holdings Plc say.  Leverage will “explode” this quarter because of the rate
cut and energy costs, Pedro Manfredini, a JPMorgan utilities
analyst who rates Eletropaulo a sell, said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “For the first quarter we see a worse Ebitda number than
in the fourth. There will be a negative Ebitda number.”  Fourteen of the 22 analysts who  rate  the company recommend
selling Eletropaulo stock. Eight say hold and none say buy.  Eletropaulo rose 0.4 percent to 10.48 reais at 3:36 p.m. in
Sao Paulo trading.  Debt Covenants  Net  debt  last quarter soared to 4.9 times the company’s
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization.
That’s more than double the median for emerging-market utilities
and higher than the maximum 3.5 ratio that’s allowed under the
terms of the company’s outstanding bonds.  The utility is meeting with bondholders on March 26 to
renegotiate the terms of its debt, just seven months after
selling 750 million reais ($373 million) of bonds. The company,
which in August issued the floating-rate notes due in 2018, is
scheduled to make the first coupon payment on April 9.  Eletropaulo’s press office declined to comment in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Other companies are facing having their rates cut in
regular four-year reviews by the government. Brazil’s
electricity regulator said this month it lowered the preliminary
asset valuation to be used in the review for  Cia. Energetica de
Minas Gerais , Brazil’s second-largest power company by market
value. Cemig, as the Belo Horizonte-based company is known,
makes about two-thirds of its revenue from distribution.  Hydropower Shortage  Eletropaulo and other distributors, including Rio de
Janeiro-based  Light SA (LIGT3) , have been hit by rising costs since
generators were ordered in October to switch on thermal plants
to preserve dwindling reservoirs at hydropower plants. Thermal
plants produce electricity from coal, oil and natural gas that
can cost eight times as much as hydroelectricity, according to
HSBC.  Distributors, which buy the thermal power at variable rates
and resell it at fixed rates, will have to shoulder the losses
until their next annual rate review. Companies have lost at
least 5 billion reais since October, the distributors’
association known as Abradee estimates.  The government announced March 8 that it would help
distributors by using a special industry development account to
offset the costs.  Ebitda Loss  “Even with the government help, it’s very likely that
Eletropaulo will surpass the leverage levels again,” Eduardo Gomide, an utilities analyst at HSBC who rates Eletropaulo as a
sell, said in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo . “It is possible
they will negotiate a new level.”  Eletropaulo posted an Ebitda loss of 14.5 million reais in
the fourth quarter, compared with positive Ebitda of 1.13
billion reais a year earlier, according to Bloomberg data.  Even with weak results, short-selling the stock is risky
after it already plunged more than peers in the past year,
according to Saulo Sabba, who oversees 350 million reais as
chief investment officer at Banco Maxima SA.  Eletropaulo “has dropped so much that if you run the risk
of shorting it, it’s concerning,” Sabba said by telephone from
Rio de Janeiro. “I at least wouldn’t venture to be short. If
you are short, the only way to win is for it to drop.”  Naked Short-Selling  Regulations in Brazil prohibit so-called naked short-
selling, when traders short shares without actually taking
possession of them. Investors in Brazil borrow stock to use for
short-selling, hedging and tax purposes. Short selling allows
traders to profit from drops by selling stock and buying it
later at a lower price.  Brazil on March 15 increased the maximum amount of a
company’s free-floating shares to be borrowed on any given day
to 50 percent from 30 percent. Eletropaulo neared the previous
limit between Feb. 22 and March 1, when short sellers traded
more than 29 percent.  “Eletropaulo is going through difficult, challenging
times,” Manfredini said. “It’ll need patience from creditors
to get some sort of waiver for the covenants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net ;
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  