-- Elvis Dumervil Joins NFL’s Ravens After Six Seasons With Broncos
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-03-25T04:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/elvis-dumervil-joins-nfl-s-ravens-after-six-seasons-with-broncos.html
Pro Bowl defensive end Elvis Dumervil agreed to a five-year contract with the  Super Bowl 
champion  Baltimore Ravens  after totaling 63 1/2 sacks in the six
seasons he played with the Denver Broncos.  Dumervil, 29, became a free agent this month when the
Broncos terminated his contract after the two sides were unable
to finalize paperwork on a restructured deal before the  National
Football League ’s deadline.  “Although we made multiple contract offers to Elvis after
being forced to release him, we were unable to reach an
agreement and are now moving forward without him,” Broncos
executive vice president of football operations  John Elway  said
in a statement.  The Ravens said Dumervil’s contract would be complete if he
passes a physical exam tomorrow.  Dumervil was a fourth-round pick of the Broncos in the 2006
NFL draft and had 8 1/2 sacks as a rookie. He had a league-
leading 17 sacks while playing linebacker in 2009 before missing
the following season with a torn pectoral muscle. The 6-foot,
255-pound Dumervil had 20 1/2 sacks in 30 games the past two
seasons, when he had a $14 million annual salary.  The Broncos asked Dumervil to take a pay cut this offseason
and after two weeks of negotiations his agent agreed to an $8
million salary for 2013, the  Denver Post  said. While the two
sides agreed to a reworked deal, the paperwork didn’t reach the
Broncos or the NFL office until after the league’s deadline on
March 15, the paper said. The Broncos terminated Dumervil’s
previous contract to avoid paying him a guaranteed $12 million
and sought to negotiate a new deal.  “As we have from the start of this process, we worked
diligently over the last week to find a way for Elvis Dumervil
to remain a Denver Bronco,” Elway said yesterday.  The Broncos may now look to replace Dumervil with former
Indianapolis Colts defensive end Dwight Freeney, who’s a free
agent and ex-teammate of Denver quarterback  Peyton Manning .  Dumervil joins a Ravens team that’s lost at least eight key
players since winning the Super Bowl last month, with linebacker
 Ray Lewis  retiring, and defensive end Paul Kruger and linebacker
Dannell Ellerbe leaving as free agents. Baltimore also released
strong safety Bernard Pollard, its leading tackler from last
season, while nine-time Pro Bowl safety Ed Reed signed with the
Houston Texans as a free agent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  