-- Emerging Stocks Rise on Cyprus as Brazilian Equities Drop
-- B y   H a r r y   S u h a r t o n o   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-03-25T21:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/emerging-stocks-advance-most-in-two-weeks-on-cyprus-bailout-deal.html
Emerging-market stocks advanced for
the first time in three days after Cyprus avoided a disorderly
default by agreeing on the outline of a bailout. Brazilian
equities dropped to an eight-month low.  Greentown  China  Holdings Ltd., a Hong Kong-based property
developer, gained the most on the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index as
profit surged. OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer,
climbed after securing Chinese oil deals.  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  index
dropped a fifth day as Cia. Hering led losses by companies
linked to domestic demand. Hungary’s forint weakened on
speculation the central bank will cut the benchmark rate.  The MSCI emerging-markets stock gauge rose 0.7 percent to
1,022.27 in  New York . Cyprus agreed on an accord with creditors,
paving the way for 10 billion euros ($13 billion) of emergency
loans to stave off the threat of default.  The agreement “is positive in terms of risk sentiment,”
 Michael Wang , an emerging-markets strategist at Amiya Capital
LLP in  London , said by e-mail. “It prevents a disorderly
default in Cyprus and exit from the euro.”  Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an aid deal that imposes
losses which two European Union officials said would be as much
as 40 percent on uninsured depositors at Bank of Cyprus Plc,
which will take over the viable assets of Cyprus Popular Bank
Pcl as that bank is wound down.  Technology and industrial shares in the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index rose the most among 10 groups. The broader gauge
has lost 3.1 percent this year, compared with a 6.6 percent jump
in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-country stocks. The
developing-nations measure trades at 10.8 times  estimated  12-
month earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s multiple of 14.1,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Emerging ETF  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets exchange-traded fund, the
ETF tracking developing-nation shares, fell 0.1 percent to
$41.92. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, slid 2 percent to 18.69.  The Bovespa dropped 0.7 percent as Hering lost 3.1 percent
in  Sao Paulo . The real traded weaker than 2 per dollar for a
third day on speculation the central bank won’t intervene to
strengthen the currency after analysts lowered their forecasts
for economic growth.  Russian equities dropped to the lowest level in more than
three months as Bank of America Merrill Lynch cut its
recommendation for the nation’s shares, calling the it a “net
loser” in the Cyprus bailout. The Micex Index erased earlier
gains, falling 0.9 percent.  Rosneft Jumps  OAO Rosneft jumped 1.5 percent in Moscow. Under agreements
signed during President Xi Jinping’s first state trip abroad,
China may double oil imports from state-run Rosneft to more than
620,000 barrels a day, challenging  Germany  as the biggest buyer
of Russian crude. The two also plan to sign an agreement this
year to build a pipeline to ship Russian gas to China.  Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  lost 0.6 percent, reversing earlier
gains. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank will cut the two-week deposit
rate by a quarter-point to 5 percent tomorrow, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Thai stocks  snapped a five-day drop after Credit Suisse
Group AG and Morgan Stanley recommended investors buy the
nation’s shares following the biggest weekly slump since the
peak of the 2008 global financial crisis. The benchmark SET
Index jumped 3 percent, the steepest increase since October 2011
and the biggest gain in  Asia .  Greentown China  Greentown China Holdings surged 10 percent, leading gains
in Honk Kong. China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., Asia’s biggest
refiner, climbed 2.7 percent after posting full-year profit that
beat estimates. The  Hang Seng Index  gained 0.6 percent to
22,251.15 at the close in  Hong Kong .  The S&P BSE Sensex index lost 0.3 percent in Mumbai after a
party that supports Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s coalition
government said it will prefer elections in October, spurring
concerns polls may be held before schedule.  State Bank of India (SBIN) ,
the nation’s biggest lender, slid 1.2 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to own developing-nation
dollar debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 298, according to the JPMorgan Chase & Co.
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Harry Suhartono in Jakarta at 
 hsuhartono@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  