-- Emirates NBD Advances on First-Quarter Profit Bets: Dubai Mover
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2013-03-25T10:29:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/emirates-nbd-set-for-18-month-high-on-profit-bets-dubai-mover.html
Emirates NBD PJSC rose for the
third time in four days amid bets first-quarter profit improved
and as the largest bank in the  United Arab Emirates  was said to
sell 10-year bonds.  The shares increased 2.5 percent to 4.05 dirhams at the
close in Dubai, bringing a rally this year to 42 percent.
Emirates NBD was the biggest gainer on the benchmark  DFM General
Index, (EMIRATES)  which rose 0.2 percent. The Dubai-based lender may sell
subordinated tier two bonds, two people familiar with the plan
said yesterday, declining to be identified because the
information is private.  U.A.E. banks are showing signs of recovery after the global
credit crisis weakened lending, crimped  investment banking  and
spurred loan defaults. Emirates NBD’s  fourth-quarter profit  more
than tripled and the bank may post a 9.6 percent increase in
2013 net income, according to the median estimate of four
analysts on Bloomberg.  “Profit prospects are good and the stock has a high
dividend yield,” said Nabil Farhat, partner at Abu Dhabi-based
Al Fajer Securities. The bond sale “will help the bank meet its
future finance commitments.”  Emirates NBD may raise more than $1 billion from private
bond placements this year to reduce funding costs and tap
investor appetite for Dubai credit, Tony Bush, managing director
for global funding, said in January.  The stock has a 12-month dividend yield of 6.2 percent,
compared with 3.8 percent for Dubai’s gauge, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The share rally this year compares with a gain
of 2.5 percent for  Dubai Islamic Bank PJSC (DIB)  and outpaces an
advance of 17 percent for the  DFM General Index. (DFMGI)   Four analysts recommend investors  buy the shares  of
Emirates NBD, while three have a hold rating and one says sell,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  