-- EON Says Fate of German Gas Plant Irsching-5 Still to Be Decided
-- B y   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-03-25T15:16:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/eon-says-fate-of-german-gas-plant-irsching-5-still-to-be-decided.html
The future of  EON SE (EOAN) ’s three-year-
old gas-fired plant Irsching-5 in  Germany  is still undecided as
the owners and the country’s grid operator and regulator wrangle
over whether to close the loss-making facility.  “We are currently in constructive talks with the grid
operator and the responsible authority,” Fabienne Twelemann, a
spokeswoman for Dusseldorf-based EON, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “We are aiming for a swift solution” and
further talks are scheduled for later this week, she said.  Germany’s biggest utility wants compensation for keeping
the 860-megawatt facility open. Grid operator Tennet and the
nation’s regulator are seeking to ensure supply security after
the closing in 2011 of three nuclear plants in southern Germany
where Irsching-5 is located. The plant’s owners led by EON met
for talks with Tennet and the regulator today.  The country’s renewable energy boom means reduced running
times at stations fired by relatively expensive natural gas,
which fueled 11 percent of the Germany’s power output last year.
German  gas-fired plants  make a loss of 20.33 euros a megawatt-
hour based on power, gas and emissions prices for next month,
the lowest since Bloomberg started calculating the so-called
one-month clean spark spread in October 2009.  EON owns 50.2 percent of the Irsching-5 plant in the
southern German state of Bavaria. N-Ergie AG, a utility in
Nuremberg, Germany, owns about 25 percent, while Frankfurt-
based  Mainova AG (MNV6)  holds about 16 percent, and HSE AG, a
Darmstadt, Germany-based power supplier, owns about 9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  