-- EPA Clean Water Act Rules Invalidated by Appeals Court
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-03-25T23:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/epa-clean-water-act-rules-invalidated-by-appeals-court.html
U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency wastewater treatment rules deemed to have been adopted in
a pair of letters sent to a U.S. senator in 2011 were struck
down by a federal appeals court.  The EPA sent the letters to Iowa Senator Charles Grassley
while he was acting as an intermediary between the agency and
the Iowa League of Cities, which the St. Louis-based court said
had seen a gap between the regulator’s municipal sewer-water
treatment rules and its expressed expectations.  The agency argued that the letters should be considered
policy statements or interpretations of existing rules referred
to in the correspondence. The court said today they contained
new, improperly created regulations, one of which exceeded the
EPA’s authority.  “The EPA asks us to agree that when it couches an
interdiction within a pro forma reference to state discretion,
the prohibition is somehow transformed into something less than
a prohibition,” Circuit Judge Raymond W. Gruender wrote.  “We decline to accept such Orwellian Newspeak,” he said,
referencing the fictional language author George Orwell created
in his dystopian 1949 novel “1984.”  Public Notice  A unanimous three-judge panel declared both rules were
created in violation of the federal Administrative Procedures
Act, which requires public notice and comment.  Charles Miller, a spokesman for the U.S. Justice
Department, didn’t immediately reply to a telephone message
seeking comment on the court’s decision.  Based in the state capital of Des Moines, the Iowa League
of Cities represents more than 870 municipalities, according to
its  website .  “We are still in the middle of reviewing the opinion,”
Bruce Bergman, the league’s general counsel, said of the court’s
42-page ruling in a phone interview today. “We perceive it at
this point as a victory for Iowa municipal interests.”  The EPA’s June 2011 letter to Grassley, a Republican,
addressed bacterial mixing zones, areas immediately adjacent to
sewage system outflow points where water quality may be
measurably worse than permitted by regulations.  Water Overflows  While the letter acknowledged that EPA rules appear to
tolerate those zones, it also said they shouldn’t be permitted
in recreational waters.  The September letter addressed the routing and re-blending
of storm water overflows through and around primary and
secondary waste treatment processes, certain types of which the
EPA said then could be employed only where there was no feasible
alternative even though that rule had never been officially
adopted, the court said.  That change, the court said, had the effect of relocating
from outflow sites to secondary treatment sites the point at
which the water must meet Clean Water Act requirements.  The case is Iowa League of Cities v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 11-3412, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit (St. Louis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 