-- Merkel Lauds Cyprus Bailout as German Lawmakers Embrace Accord
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-03-25T13:25:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/merkel-lauds-cyprus-bailout-as-german-lawmakers-embrace-accord.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
lauded the bailout agreement for Cyprus as lawmakers in her
coalition embraced the package that will go to a vote in
parliament in the coming weeks.  “I am very satisfied that it was possible to reach a
solution last night, that is to avoid the country’s
insolvency,” Merkel said in a speech today in the Bavarian town
of Langenfeld. The deal places Cyprus on a “new path” and the
17-member euro area will show its solidarity “in the years
ahead.”  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  briefed parliamentary
caucus leaders in the lower chamber, or Bundestag, today after
returning from Brussels. Euro finance ministers in the early
hours of this morning agreed on a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
package for Cyprus in exchange for a scaled-back banking system.  Leading German legislators will decide whether the
Bundestag vote will take place this week or in the third week of
April, Schaeuble told reporters.  The agreement goes a “long way” toward satisfying the
demands of German parliamentarians, though it must be examined
in detail, Christian Democratic lawmaker Norbert Barthle said in
an interview today.  “The result of the negotiations correspond for the greater
part with our original proposals for a bail-in,” or imposed
losses, said Barthle, a Merkel ally and budget expert in her
Christian Democratic Union party.  ‘Acceptable Solution’  In late-night negotiations, Cypriot President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut the country’s second-largest bank
and impose a levy of as much as 40 percent on deposits of more
than 100,000 euros at  Bank of Cyprus Plc , the largest lender.  The No. 2 bank,  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , will be wound down
and its viable assets transferred to the larger bank.  “The solution appears acceptable as it doesn’t increase
the contribution of the euro group and is a partial bail-in that
treats small savers differently from bank owners and bond
creditors,”  Otto Fricke , a lawmaker for Merkel’s Free
Democratic coalition partner, said in an interview.  Germany ’s opposition Social Democrats also embraced the
agreement,  Deutsche Presse-Agentur  cited SPD caucus leader
Frank-Walter Steinmeier as saying. He said a vote before the
March 31 Easter holiday wasn’t necessary.  The burden of rescuing banks shouldn’t fall to taxpayers,
“but rather the banks to save themselves,” said Merkel, who’s
seeking a third term in national elections scheduled for Sept.
22.  The single currency must hold together, she said. “That is
the nature of our European rescue policy of holding together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Langenfeld at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  