-- Tesco to Complete International Online Jigsaw Early Next Year
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-03-25T11:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/tesco-to-complete-international-online-jigsaw-early-next-year.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
grocer, will complete the introduction of Internet shopping to
all its international markets when it starts up in  Turkey  early
next year, according to the executive overseeing the plan.  The start of online operations in  Thailand  next week and in
China in June or July, will leave Turkey as the last of Tesco’s
12 international markets without an e-commerce function,
director Frans Falize said at a briefing in Bangkok today. The
Turkish online offering should begin in January 2014, he said.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  said last week Tesco
will spend $750 million this year to develop online shopping and
other digital services, as customers worldwide shift to
purchasing via computers, mobile phones and tablets. The company
now offers online grocery shopping in the U.K., Ireland,  Korea ,
 Czech Republic ,  Poland , Slovakia,  Hungary  and  Malaysia . At home,
Tesco has capacity to deliver to 99 percent of homes.  A common technology and operations model based on its U.K.
Web business “allows us to launch in any market within three to
six months, depending on planning restrictions,” Falize said.
The grocer typically starts in the capital city using local
stores as hubs and replicates the model across the country.  In the U.K., where Tesco introduced online shopping in
1997, the Internet grocery market is growing about 15 percent
per annum. Web sales contributed 2.8 billion pounds ($4.3
billion) to the Cheshunt, England-based retailer’s 72 billion
pounds of revenue last year. Tesco has said its online
operations are profitable, without providing figures.  U.K. Blueprint  While the U.K. model serves as the blueprint for the
international rollout, some local conditions and preferences
have to be taken into account, according to Tesco.  The 30 vans for the Bangkok operation are smaller than
those in the U.K. so they can better cope with traffic
congestion. Still, they have bigger refrigeration units to
protect fresh and frozen foods from the sweltering heat.  Customers outside of the U.K. have the option to pay the
delivery driver by card when their food is delivered, because in
some markets there is distrust of online payments, Falize said.  In Thailand and China, where cash is still more widely used
than payment cards, Tesco may have to consider accepting coins
and notes when it delivers online orders, he said.  Tesco’s online business in Thailand starts in Bangkok on
April 4. The country is the retailer’s second-largest
international market, accounting for revenue of 3.2 billion
pounds last year. The Tesco Lotus chain has more than 1,400
stores in Thailand, which has a population of about 70 million,
and a leading market share of about 14.5 percent.  Tesco runs hypermarkets,  convenience stores  and about 140
shopping malls in Thailand. Last year, it opened 350 convenience
stores, which Tesco Thailand Chief Executive Officer John Christie said he is seeking to match this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in Bangkok on  gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  