-- MetroPCS Says No Bidders Have Emerged to Counter T-Mobile
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-03-25T20:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/metropcs-says-no-other-bidders-have-emerged-to-counter-t-mobile.html
MetroPCS Communications Inc. (PCS) 
reiterated a plea for shareholders to vote for the U.S. wireless
carrier’s planned combination with  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA unit, saying it has received no rival offers.  “No other bidders have emerged in the five months since
the proposed combination was announced,” the company said today
in a statement. “The proposed combination is the best
alternative for MetroPCS to maximize stockholder value.”  Shareholders are scheduled to vote on the deal at a meeting
on April 12. It would combine the nation’s fourth- and fifth-
largest mobile-service providers and give Deutsche Telekom a 74
percent stake in the combined entity. While the merger has been
cleared by regulators, two of MetroPCS’s biggest investors --
Paulson & Co. and P. Schoenfeld Asset Management -- have
criticized the proposal.  P. Schoenfeld Asset Management has said that the
transaction is unfair to investors by saddling the combined
company with too much debt. The New York investment firm also
called for MetroPCS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Roger Linquist to step down. The picture painted by the firm is
“grossly inaccurate,” MetroPCS said today.  MetroPCS  rose  less than 1 percent to $10.60 at the close in
New York. The stock is down 22 percent since Oct. 2, when the
company announced it was in talks with the German phone carrier.  Reviving Business  Deutsche Telekom aims to use MetroPCS to help revive its
U.S. business. Together, T-Mobile USA and MetroPCS will attempt
to challenge Verizon Wireless,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
by broadening the company’s national coverage and offering
lower-priced service.  In a revamp of its service offerings, T-Mobile has begun
selling a selection of no-contract plans called  Simple Choice ,
starting at $50 a month for 500 megabytes of data and $60 for
2.5 gigabytes. The subscriptions don’t include the cost of the
device. The company expects to introduce an installment plan
that lets users pay for smartphones on a monthly basis over
time, CEO John Legere has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  