-- Metso to Study Spinning Off Less Profitable Paper, Power Units
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2013-03-25T08:59:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/metso-to-study-spinning-off-less-profitable-paper-power-units.html
Metso Oyj (MEO1V) , the Finnish maker of
paper machines and rock crushers, will consider separating its
less profitable paper, pulp and power unit into a new company.  Metso would keep the mining, construction and automation
businesses in the split, the Helsinki-based company said in a
statement today. The study will include aspects such as taxation
and financing. Metso plans to announce more details about the
potential separation by the end of the second quarter.  Demand for paper machines is weak as papermakers reduce
overcapacity by shuttering mills, and the growth of online media
has spurred a decline in newsprint. Demand for pulp mills is
“satisfactory,” Metso said on its  website .  “Clearer business structures would increase the focus and
ambition of the two companies with distinct growth strategies,”
Chairman Jukka Viinanen said in the statement. “The board also
believes that both companies would be seen as attractive
investments, which has the potential to increase value for our
shareholders.”  Metso rose as much as 11 percent, the biggest intraday jump
since July. The stock was up 9.8 percent at 33.80 euros as of
10:57 a.m. in Helsinki. Volume exceeded the average daily
trading of the past three months by more than 90 percent.  Service Growth  Metso’s paper, pulp and power business had an operating
margin of 4.9 percent last year, compared with a margin of more
than 11 percent for mining, construction and automation. The
unit to be spun off accounted for about 40 percent of revenue
and 29 percent of Metso’s earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization excluding one-time items.  Metso is seeking growth through service businesses and may
make acquisitions to that end as the slowdown in global economic
growth caused “massive” mining projects to disappear and hurt
order intake, Chief Executive Officer Matti Kaehkoenen said last
month.  The new company would be listed on the Nasdaq OMX Helsinki
stock exchange, Metso said. A spinoff would leave Metso
shareholders’ stakes unchanged and owners would receive shares
in the new company in proportion to their Metso holdings, the
company said. Shareholders must approve any spinoff in an
extraordinary general meeting that would be held in the second
half of the year, Metso said.  Solidium Oy, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Co. and
Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Co., support the study, the
company said. Those companies hold 14.6 percent of Metso voting
rights, according to the company’s  website . Solidium is the
state-owned manager of  Finland ’s equity investments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  