-- Eurostar Chief Reviews Amsterdam Route Plans on Dutch Track Fees
-- B y   C h r i s   J a s p e r   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-03-25T14:52:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/eurostar-profit-doubles-as-leisure-traffic-rises-after-olympics.html
Eurostar Group Ltd. said it’s
reviewing plans to operate trains from London to Amsterdam in
the light of Dutch track access charges.  The 10 new e320 trains that Eurostar has ordered at a cost
of 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) could instead be deployed
on existing routes to Paris and Brussels or to southern France,
Chief Executive Officer Nicolas Petrovic said in an interview.  The first two e320s have begun trials with manufacturer
 Siemens AG (SIE) , and deliveries to Eurostar should start in mid-2014,
he said. Further testing through the Channel Tunnel may take
another year before the model enters service in 2015.  “Amsterdam is a big market but we haven’t taken a decision
yet on where the trains will go,” Petrovic said today in London.
“The landscape in the Netherlands is different in terms of the
track charges, with the high-speed line run by a consortium. So
we might go for more frequencies elsewhere instead.”  Charges for using the HSL-Zuid line between Amsterdam and
the Belgian border are set by NS Hispeed, in which Dutch state
railway Nederlandse Spoorwegen holds a 90 percent stake, with
Air France-KLM Group’s Dutch unit holding the rest. Mieke
Bosman, an external spokeswoman for NS Hispeed, said she
couldn’t immediately comment on Petrovic’s remarks.  NS Hispeed pays fees to the government, which in turn funds
a 25-year upkeep contract held by Infraspeed BV, in which the
leading investors are Fluor Corp. of the U.S. and Bunnik,
Netherlands-based  Royal BAM Group NV. (BAMNB)   German Option  The possibility of using the new trains to add a route from
London to Cologne may depend on whether German state railway
company Deutsche Bahn AG gets a rival service up and running
first, Petrovic said. That’s likely to happen in late 2015,
Eurostar said, citing comments from the Berlin-based company.  The e320s, based on the Siemens Velaro D model, will run at
speeds of up to 320 kilometers an hour (198 mph) and seat 900
people, 150 more than Eurostar’s existing fleet from  Alstom SA (ALO) ,
which will be revamped to a design from  Italy ’s Pininfarina SpA.  Eurostar will begin serving Lyon this year using its
current fleet. The weekly service starting in May will allow
people to reach  France ’s second-largest city from Britain
without stopping in Paris, with trains carrying on to Avignon
and Aix-en-Provence. An existing service to Avignon that runs in
July and August will continue to operate.  Second Ski Train  A Swiss “ski special” -- following on from a long-standing
route to St Mortiz and the French Alps -- will run until April
13, Eurostar said. The train, which was introduced in December,
serves Verbier, Zermatt, Saas Fee and Gstaad, with passengers
taking the Eurostar to Lille and changing to TGV Lyria trains
run by a venture of the French and Swiss state rail operators.  The cooperation is “working very well” and could be
extended to provide trains to Zurich, another city that Eurostar
had said might be served by the e320s, according to Petrovic.  Eurostar doubled its operating profit to 52.3 million
pounds last year, aided by a 2 percent increase in the passenger
count to 9.9 million. Gains were aided by “non-glamorous”
backroom cost cuts that became possible when the company ceased
to be a three-way venture, Petrovic said.  Earnings were buoyed by a strong fourth quarter, when
leisure traffic rose as Britons who had delayed taking time off
during the  London  Olympics went on vacation. Numbers that were
depressed before the Games also rose during the event itself.  City Boost  Business traffic from the City of London has begun to
rebound, according to the CEO, after suffering a slump at the
height of the euro crisis between the summers of 2011 and 2012.  “We communicate with corporate customers all the time and
they were only talking about how hard things were,” Petrovic
said. “Then after the summer they began to speak about looking
for new business and a little bit of M&A coming back.”  Eurostar has also seen a surge in custom from passenger
from outside the European Union as people use the train to
travel between cities in different countries during their
vacation, especially  Brazil , the U.S. and  Australia , he said.  There’s also huge potential from  China , with visa
restrictions currently damping the number of tourists who make
the journey from Paris to Britain, the CEO said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Jasper in London at 
 cjasper@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  