-- European Banks Gain as Cyprus Avoids Default With Bailout
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-25T08:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/european-banks-gain-as-cyprus-avoids-default-with-bailout.html
European banks climbed after Cyprus
reached a deal with creditors on a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion)
bailout, avoiding a disorderly default and a collapse of its
banking industry.  The  Stoxx 600 Banks Index (SX7P)  advanced 1.1 percent to 168.85 at
9:13 a.m. in  Frankfurt . French lenders led gains, with  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  rising 2.9 percent to 6.75 euros and  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
increasing 2.4 percent to 42.2 euros.  Cyprus agreed to shut  Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the
country’s second-biggest bank, and spared losses for all account
holders with less than 100,000 euros. Stock markets across
 Europe  fell last week, first on concern a plan to tax all
depositors could hurt the credit of banks elsewhere, then as
Cyprus failed to agree with the European Union and International
Monetary Fund on a deal.  “The danger has been lifted,”  Andreas Plaesier , a banking
analyst with M.M. Warburg in Hamburg,  Germany , said by
telephone. “Not going after insured deposits was an important
signal as last week it seemed like the plan would boost
uncertainty in countries like Italy and Spain.”  The accord announced by European policy makers in Brussels
today imposes losses that two EU officials said would be no more
than 40 percent of uninsured depositors at  Bank of Cyprus Plc ,
the island’s largest bank, which will take over the viable
assets of Cyprus Popular Bank, the second largest.  Deposits Wipeout  Cyprus Popular, 84 percent owned by the government, will be
wound down, said Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem who
is also chairman of the euro ministers’ panel. Those who will be
largely wiped out include uninsured foreign and domestic
depositors and bondholders, including senior creditors. Senior
bondholders will also contribute to the recapitalization of  Bank
of Cyprus (BOC) , according to the plan.  Total bank assets on the Mediterranean island swelled to
126.4 billion euros at the end of January, seven times the size
of the 18 billion-euro economy, from 78 billion euros in 2007,
data from the European Central Bank and the EU’s statistics
office show. Russian companies and individuals have an estimated
$31 billion of wealth in Cyprus, according to Moody’s.  “Cypriot banks, being so focused on foreign deposits,
didn’t have much of a business model in the first place,”
Plaesier said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  