-- Euro Trades Near 4-Month Low as Cyprus Spurs Debt Crisis Concern
-- B y   K e v i n   B u c k l a n d   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-03-26T01:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/euro-trades-near-4-month-low-as-cyprus-spurs-debt-crisis-jitters.html
The euro traded 0.3 percent from a
four-month low as a Cyprus bailout plan to tax bank depositors
cast doubt on the safety of financial assets in the region.  The 17-nation currency held its biggest decline in more
than eight months ahead of debt auctions in  Italy  where
lawmakers are still trying to form a government after
inconclusive elections last month. The yen fell against all 16
major peers as  Bank of Japan (8301)  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told
parliament he will seek to end deflation.  “The market was spooked by the possibility that Cyprus
won’t be the only time bank deposit holders are forced to share
the cost of a bailout,” said Yuki Sakasai, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Barclays Plc in New York. “With the political
risk in Italy continuing, it will be hard for the euro to make
any headway.”  The euro was little changed at $1.2864 as of 10:42 a.m. in
 Tokyo  from yesterday, when it tumbled 1.1 percent, the most
since July 5. The single currency added 0.3 percent to 121.45
yen following a 1.4 percent slide. The yen weakened 0.3 percent
to 94.41 per dollar from yesterday, when it reached 93.53, the
strongest since March 6.  Cyprus agreed to the outlines of an aid deal that EU
officials said imposes losses of as much as 40 percent on
uninsured depositors at  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY) , and sees Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl wound down, wiping out bondholders.  Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who leads the
group of 17 euro finance ministers, said imposing losses on
depositors and bondholders must be part of the bailout toolkit.  Italian Auctions  Italy is scheduled to sell 6-month bills today and bonds
due in 2018 and 2023 tomorrow. The euro area’s fourth-biggest
economy auctioned 2.8 billion euros ($3.6 billion) of 2014 zero-
coupon bonds yesterday at a yield of 1.746 percent, the highest
since Dec. 27.  Italy’s Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani has two
days left to overcome a shortfall of support in parliament,
after President Giorgio Napolitano gave him a mandate on March
22 to try to form a government. Bersani will meet adversary
Silvio Berlusconi’s deputies at the People of Liberty party
today, and seek to overcome years of bad blood.  The euro has fallen 1.1 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The U.S. dollar has gained 0.5
percent, while the yen has weakened 2.3 percent.  Over six months, expectations for additional stimulus in
 Japan  have pushed the yen down more than 17 percent, the most
among the currencies on the indexes.  Kuroda Comments  New Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda told lawmakers
today he envisages two years to achieve a 2 percent inflation
target. He said he’ll consider extending bond maturities for the
bank’s asset purchase fund.  “The speculative community has driven dollar-yen higher,”
said  Jonathan Cavenagh , a currency strategist in  Singapore  at
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  “The market is looking for hints at what
Kuroda’s going to do. The bar is set quite high in terms of
what he’s going to have to deliver to give dollar-yen a
significant boost.”  The BOJ currently buys government bonds with maturities of
up to three years through its 76 trillion-yen ($802 billion)
asset-purchase program.  Kuroda said policy specifics will be discussed at the BOJ
board meeting, scheduled for April 3-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Buckland in Tokyo at 
 kbuckland1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  