-- European Banks Fall on Concern Cyprus Levy to Be Repeated
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2013-03-25T16:34:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/european-banks-fall-after-cyprus-levy-replication-report.html
European banks fell after Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem said a tax on deposits at
Cypriot banks may be repeated at other lenders as part of
efforts to fight the debt crisis.  The Stoxx 600 Banks Index fell 1.7 percent to 164.06 at
4:46 p.m. in  Frankfurt . France’s  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  led
declines, sliding 6.1 percent, while Italy’s  Banco Popolare SC (BP) 
lost 6 percent and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  dropped 5.8 percent.  Dijsselbloem, who also chairs meetings of euro-area finance
ministers, said in an interview with  Reuters  and the Financial
Times that European leaders will ask holders of uninsured
deposits to contribute to the recapitalization of their banks if
necessary. Simone Boitelle, a spokeswoman for the Dutch Finance
Ministry, confirmed the comments in a phone interview today.  “Investors are taking these remarks poorly,” Douglas Borthwick, a managing director and head of foreign exchange at
Chapdelaine & Co. in New York, said in e-mailed remarks. If
“these comments are being translated correctly, then the euro-
dollar will see new selling pressures, as depositors in Italy,
Spain, Portugal and Ireland with balances over 100,000 euros
($128,880) nervously eye their deposits.”  The banks index rose as much as 1.7 percent earlier today
after Cyprus reached a deal with creditors on a 10 billion-euro
bailout, avoiding a disorderly default and a collapse of its
banking industry. That agreement called for the closing of
 Cyprus Popular Bank Pcl (CPB) , the country’s second-biggest bank, and
spared losses for depositors with less than 100,000 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  