-- European Stocks Decline as Cyprus Optimism Wanes
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2013-03-25T16:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/european-stock-futures-rise-as-cyprus-reaches-aid-deal.html
European stocks  declined as a
report sparked concern a rescue plan for Cyprus that involves
shrinking its banking system may set a precedent for other euro-
area lenders.  Italian banks paced losses, with Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, Banco
Popolare SC and UniCredit SpA dropping more than 5.5 percent
each.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN)  fell 5 percent on a new share-
sale plan. Vodafone Group Plc added 2 percent after a report
said the carrier may sell its stake in its joint venture with
Verizon Communications Inc. for $135 billion.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  slid 0.3 percent to 293.25 at
the close of trading, after rising as much as 1 percent and
falling as much as 0.5 percent. The index has still gained 4.9
percent so far this year.  “An agreement to bail out Cyprus has averted the closest
brush yet with a euro-zone breakup,” Norman Villamin, who helps
oversee about $44 billion as European chief investment officer
at Coutts & Co., wrote in a post. “But lack of economic growth
and lack of progress on a more broad-based recapitalization and
banking resolution remain major issues that leave the euro zone
vulnerable to renewed stress.”  The number of shares trading hands on Stoxx 600-listed
companies was 21 percent greater than the average of the past 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cyprus Deal  Cyprus won a 10 billion-euro ($13 billion) international
bailout after agreeing late yesterday to shrink its banking
system, instead of a previous demand to impose a levy on all
bank accounts.  Stocks pared gains after a Reuters report citing Dutch
Finance Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem fueled concern the
conditions of the bailout may set a precedent for other euro-
area lenders.  “Strengthen your banks, fix your balance sheets and
realize that if a bank gets in trouble, the response will no
longer automatically be that we’ll come and take away your
problem,” Reuters cited Dijsselbloem as saying. “We’re going
to push them back.”  President Nicos Anastasiades agreed to shut down Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl, the country’s second-largest lender. The Bank
of Cyprus Plc will take over the viable assets of the failed
lender, along with 9 billion euros in emergency loans, according
to three European Union officials familiar with the matter.  Deposit Losses  The revised accord spares bank accounts with less than the
insured limit of 100,000 euros. A loss of no more than 40
percent will be imposed on uninsured depositors at the Bank of
Cyprus, two EU officials said. Uninsured depositors at Cyprus
Popular Bank may largely be wiped out, two other officials said.  National benchmark indexes fell in 13 of the 17 western
European markets open today. The U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 0.2
percent, while  Italy ’s FTSE MIB slipped 2.5 percent and  France ’s
CAC 40 Index slid 1.1 percent.  Germany ’s DAX retreated 0.5
percent. Stock markets in Greece and Cyprus remained closed.  Italian lenders were among the biggest decliners on the
Stoxx 600 and trading in them was briefly halted in Milan.
Intesa Sanpaolo dropped 6.2 percent to 1.15 euros, while Banco
Popolare lost 5.9 percent to 1.01 euros. UniCredit, the nation’s
biggest bank, declined 5.8 percent to 3.37 euros, its lowest
price in four months.  Meyer Burger  Meyer Burger dropped 5 percent to 6.66 Swiss francs after
saying it will raise 150 million francs ($158 million) by
selling new stock to existing shareholders. The supplier of
machinery to solar-panel makers reported a full-year net loss of
2.33 francs per share.  Remy Cointreau SA declined 2.5 percent to 89.58 euros after
Nomura Holdings Inc. lowered its recommendation on the maker of
Remy Martin cognac to reduce from neutral, citing a demand
slowdown in  China .  Vodafone rose 2 percent to 187.2 pence. The Sunday Times
reported that  Europe ’s largest mobile-phone operator held talks
with Verizon to sell its stake in Verizon Wireless for $135
billion. The paper cited unnamed people familiar with the
matter.  Metso Oyj (MEO1V)  surged 9.6 percent to 33.75 euros, the biggest
increase since July 26. The Finnish maker of rock crushers is
studying the possibility of separating its pulp, paper and power
businesses into a new company that would be listed in Helsinki,
according to a statement.  CSM NV rallied 6.4 percent to 17.52 euros, the biggest jump
since May, after agreeing to sell its bakery-supplies unit to
Rhone Capital LLC for an enterprise value of about 1.05 billion
euros. The Dutch maker of bakery supplies and lactic acids,
which put up the unit for sale in May, said it expects net cash
of about 850 million euros from the deal.  Daily Mail & General Trust Plc increased 2.6 percent to 705
pence after the newspaper publisher left its revenue projection
for the year unchanged and said it will continue a share buyback
program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  