-- Ex-Calpers CEO Buenrostro Will Plead Not Guilty: Attorney
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-03-25T20:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/ex-calpers-ceo-buenrostro-will-plead-not-guilty-attorney.html
Federico Buenrostro, former chief
executive officer of California Public Employees’ Retirement
System, will plead not guilty to charges he conspired to trick
the pension fund into paying millions of dollars to a placement
agent, his lawyer said.  Buenrostro, 64, faces conspiracy and other charges for
allegedly helping to create false documents so that Alfred Villalobos could garner $14 million in fees for arranging a $3
billion investment by Calpers into funds managed by  Apollo
Global Management LLC. (APO)  Villalobos was also charged.  William Portanova, Buenrostro’s attorney, said in an
interview today his client will plead not guilty and defend
himself against the charges in federal court in San Francisco.
He said his client isn’t accused of profiting from the conduct
he’s charged with.  “It’s a backdating case,” Portanova said at a hearing
today. Buenrostro, who receives $15,000 a month from his
pension, “helped a friend” to obtain money “that he earned,”
Portanova said at a hearing about Buenrostro’s bail.  He is free on a $500,000 unsecured bond. U.S. Magistrate
Judge Nathanael Cousins upheld the amount and released
Buenrostro from electronic monitoring.  Fees for middlemen arranging investments in private equity
funds were at the center of a corruption scandal in which
Villalobos, a Calpers board member from 1993 to 1995, was sued
by state prosecutors and the pension system’s head of private-
equity resigned. The state lawsuit is pending.  Placement Agent  Villalobos, founder and managing director of Arvco Capital
Research LLC, allegedly acted as a placement agent in helping
Apollo to secure investments by Calpers, the country’s biggest
pension fund, in 2007 and 2008. Apollo required Arvco to obtain
an investor disclosure letter from Calpers before paying any
fees for securing the investments, federal prosecutors said
March 17.  Buenrostro and Villalobos allegedly conspired to create a
series of falsified letters after Calpers’ officials declined to
sign a letter, federal prosecutors said in an indictment
unsealed March 17.  Buenrostro, who led the state’s public pension fund from
2002 to 2008, was accused along with Villalobos, 69, of
conspiracy to defraud the U.S., engaging in a false scheme
against the U.S. and conspiracy to commit mail fraud and wire
fraud in a grand jury indictment announced by U.S. Attorney
Melinda Haag in San Francisco.  Buenrostro’s  next scheduled court appearance is May 8.  The case is U.S. v. Villalobos, 13-cr-00169, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  