-- Exxon, Apache Looking to Bid on Peru’s Offshore Oil, Gas Blocks
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2013-03-25T18:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/exxon-apache-looking-to-bid-on-peru-s-offshore-oil-gas-blocks.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,
and other U.S. companies are looking to acquire offshore blocks
in  Peru  this year in the country’s first bidding round since
2010, a government official said.  The government will also auction Argentine firm Pluspetrol
SA’s Block 1-AB, Peru’s largest oilfield, as it’s due to expire
in 2015, said Luis Ortigas, president of state oil-contracting
agency Perupetro. State oil company Petroperu will take an
approximate 25 percent stake in all blocks, he said.  “Companies have shown increasing interest following
offshore discoveries by BPZ and Savia,” Ortigas told reporters
in Lima. “We need to increase the number of exploration wells
being drilled to 40 or 50 a year from about six now.”  Peru, which produced 173,600 barrels of oil and gas liquids
a day through February, has lined up $20 billion in energy
projects through 2018 in a bid to double oil and gas output,
according to the Energy Ministry. Crude oil output has dropped
20 percent over the past decade as oilfields are depleted.  Alan Jeffers , an Exxon Mobil spokesman, didn’t immediately
repond to telephone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  “Apache is always scrutinizing exploration possibilities
worldwide,”  John Roper , an Apache spokesman, wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions. “We don’t publicly discuss what
prospects we are considering or their locations.”  Peru plans to put up for bids 36 new oil and gas blocks
after the government completes consultations with indigenous
groups in the highlands and Amazon jungle, Ortigas said.  The government may extend for another 10 years as many as
seven expiring contracts with companies including  Interoil
Exploration and Production ASA  and China National Petroleum
Corp. in exchange for higher investment, minimum 20 percent
royalties and taking on Petroperu as a partner, he said.  Oil for May delivery rose 89 cents, or 0.9 percent, to
$94.60 a barrel at 12:50 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  