-- F-35 Parts From Rolls-Royce 160 Days Late, Pentagon Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-03-25T18:39:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-03-25/f-35-parts-from-rolls-royce-160-days-late-pentagon-says.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/)  was an
average of 160 days late last year in delivering equipment
needed for the U.S. Marine Corps version of the F-35 fighter to
hover and land like a helicopter, according to the Pentagon.  The delays for  “lift fans”  installed on the F-35B, the
most complex model of the Joint Strike Fighter made by  Lockheed
Martin Corp. (LMT) , stemmed from flaws in parts provided by
subcontractors, the Defense Contract Management Agency said in
an e-mailed statement.  “There have been issues such as corrosion on some of the
gears and some undersized holes,” Jacqueline Noble, a
spokeswoman for the defense agency, said in the statement. While
London-based Rolls-Royce and its subcontractors have made
progress, the need to fix fan parts that don’t meet
specifications “is still a concern,” she said.  The estimated cost for a fleet of 2,443 F-35 fighters has
climbed to $395.7 billion, a 70 percent increase since 2001. The
F-35B, the model designed for the Marines and for purchase by
countries including the U.K. and  Italy , has been the most
trouble-plagued version of the jet, which is being produced even
as it’s still in development.  The F-35B is designed for short takeoffs and landings on
carriers and amphibious-warfare vessels. The Marine Corps plans
to buy about 340 of the fighters.  Rolls-Royce,  Europe ’s largest maker of commercial  aircraft
engines , provides major components for the F-35B’s propulsion
system to  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt and Whitney unit.
Pentagon pressure on both companies to improve deliveries and
subcontractor quality may increase in advance of planned funding
increases after 2015.  Spending Increase  Navy spending on engines for its carrier-based version of
the F-35 and for the Marine Corps model is estimated to increase
to $1.4 billion by fiscal 2018 from $519 million this fiscal
year, according to internal Pentagon budget data.  The U.K., which is buying an initial batch of 48 F-35Bs, is
due to receive operational models from 2015 and base them at RAF
Marham in eastern  England , Defense Secretary Philip Hammond told
Parliament today.  Land-based F-35Bs are expected to reach their initial
operational capability in the U.K. in 2018, shortly before
aircraft carrier operations are set to begin the same year, the
defense ministry said in a report. The U.K. hasn’t decided on
how many F-35s it will buy, although it had committed to taking
138 aircraft.  Plane’s ‘Probation’  U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  put the F-35B on
“probation” in January 2011 until it could demonstrate greater
reliability for the propulsion system’s driveshaft, clutch and
auxiliary air-inlet door used in hovering. His successor,  Leon Panetta , lifted the probation a year later, citing progress in
finding solutions.  The co-chairmen of President  Barack Obama ’s deficit-
reduction panel, former White House Chief of Staff Erskine Bowles and former Senator  Alan Simpson , suggested in 2010 that
the F-35B be canceled. Dropping that version would save $17.6
billion through fiscal year 2015, with $3.9 billion in 2015,
alone, according to a commission estimate.  ‘Consistently Late’  Rolls-Royce lift-fan deliveries “have been consistently
late,” because time was needed to correct quality issues, Joe
DellaVedova, a spokesman for the Pentagon’s F-35 program office,
said in an e-mail. “They have taken numerous steps to improve
quality.”  Even with the delays, the lift fans have been provided to
Lockheed Martin in time to prevent late delivery of aircraft, he
said.  Rolls-Royce spokesman George McLaren said in an e-mail the
company “has worked hard to get back on track. Recovery plans
have been executed and will be back on contract by the first
quarter of 2013.”  “We will continue to work closely with our suppliers to
ensure all components meet quality standards,” he said. The
lift fans are assembled at a Rolls-Royce facility outside of
Indianapolis.  Disclosure of the lift-fan delays follow trouble with
improperly crimped hoses manufactured by Stratoflex, a  Pratt &
Whitney  subcontractor, that caused the temporary grounding Jan.
18 of the F-35B fleet for 26 days.  The Naval Air Systems Command told Navy Secretary Ray Mabus
in a Feb. 12 memo that an investigation “determined that the
majority of hoses” installed on 25 F-35Bs “were outside
manufacturing limits.”  Inspector General  The Pentagon inspector general is conducting a review of
how well quality is managed by F-35 contractors.  “We’ve been to several contractor and subcontracting
sites” and “looked at whether the government’s getting what
they paid for,” acting Inspector General Lynne Halbrooks told a
House panel March 19.  “We’ve issued notices of concern with respect to the
quality management and oversight at each of those plants,” she
said without disclosing names.  The delayed lift fan deliveries affected the third and
fourth production contracts for engines.  With improvements made by Rolls-Royce, the Pentagon
estimates that lift-fan deliveries for the fifth production
batch of engines will start out an average of 15 days late
before exceeding the schedule by three days, according to Noble
of the  Defense Contract Management Agency .  Pratt Cited  Separately, the agency cited Pratt & Whitney in January
2012 for “consistently missing” engine contract delivery dates
in 2011. The late deliveries “were paced by final engine
assembly rework due to engine vibration” and late hardware,
DellaVedova said.  Pratt & Whitney was given a report requiring “corrective
action” that “has the appropriate attention of senior
management,” the agency said. The company submitted a
“comprehensive corrective action plan to address” specific
quality issues “that prevented on-time delivery,” according to
the agency.  The report hasn’t yet been resolved as the agency continues
to review the company’s plan, Noble said.  Pratt & Whitney spokesman Shawn Watson said in an e-mail
that the company has a system to manage and measure the
improvements needed “to ensure continued improvements and
overall quality systems excellence.”  Noble and DellaVedova said Pratt & Whitney engine delivery
performance improved last year, meeting its contractual rate of
four per month.  For Related News and Information:
Flawed F-35 Fighter Too Big to Kill as Lockheed Hooks 45 States  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  